--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 51 / 22 JULY 1946

/ARIAN WOODCUTTER

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
OPE MARBURG
; LAUTERBACH,
OBER =

LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
QSERTAUNUS|
WIESBADEN

FRANKENBERG |

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH

LEONBER

BRUCHSAE

PEORZHEIM

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

IN a
BULLETI

—

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Personnel Survey of the Army (Control Approval Symbol XOM-107)
Effective Utilization ot Civilian Employees . .

Operation of Clubs for US Personnel

Postal Service Between Displaced Persons in the US Zone of Germany

and the United States

Establishment of Courier Services within the US Zone of Germany
for the Transmission of German Mail

Purchasing and Contracting Officers

Operation of Military Vehicles Loaned to Non-Military Agencies .
Conservation of Motor Transportation . :
Confiscation of Literature and Material of a Nazi and Militarist Nature
Report of Units Included in ASR Report .

Amnesty for Youthful Ex-Nazis

Coordination of Price, Rate and Related Problems .

Locomotive and Rolling Stock Rehabilitation Program .

Provision of Household Servants .

Interzonal Navigation on the Inland Waterways of Germany, CORC/
P(46)59 Final 50000000 600000

AG 201.3 AGU
20 June 1946, USFET

Civilian Pers Cir. 20
24 June 1946, USFET

AG 331.3 GAP-AGO
26 June 1946, USFET

AG 311.1(Gen.)GEO-AGO
26 June 1946, USFET

AG 311.1 GBIL-AGO
28 June 1946, USFET

AG 210.63 GDS-AGO
29 June 1946, USFET

AG 451 GDS-AGO
29 June 1946, USFET

AG 510 GDS-AGO
29 June 1946, USFET

AG:007 (CS)
30 June 1946, OMGUS

AG 319.1 GAP-AGO
1 July 1946, USFET °

AG 014.12 (AG)
8 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 383.8 (ED)
9 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 453 (ED)
10 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 292 GAP-AGO
10 July 1946, USFET

AG 800 (TD)
15 July 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly fo the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
my Signal Corps Photo

The picture on this week's cover shows a Ba-
varian woodcutter shaving bark from a newly-
felled tree. German foresters have assumed

increased importance as Germany moves to

fill reconstruction and occupational require-
ments of lumber products. (See “Germany's
Forests” on page 7 of this issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS |

Our contributors this week include Lt. Col.
Edward J. Dehne whose article, “Battle
Against Disease” appears on page 4. Chief
of the Preventive Medicine Section, Public
Health and Welfare Branch of the Interna
Affairs Division, OMGUS, Col. Dehne was

formerly Executive Officer, Hqs ECAD Medical eS

Group, in which capacity he supervised the
public health of liberated and occupied terri-
tories.

“Germany's Forests” appearing on page 7 —

of this issue is the work of Major Leslie S. Bean,
Chief of OMGUS' Forrestry Section. Major
Bean was Principal Inspector of the US Forest
Service before coming into the Army and has
served as Forest Officer for Greater Hesse
and the 7th Army area.

Margaret Reckmeyer reports on American
exports to Germany in “Imported from the US”
which will be found on page 10. A veteran
of the ET, Miss Reckmeyer worked with the

Economic Warfare Division af the US Embassy _
in London before coming to Germany in

July 1945. At present she is a member of.

the Reports and Statistics Branch, Economics _

Division, OMGUS.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Battle Against Disease
Germany's Forests
Imported from the US

US Consulates in Germany
Allied Control Council

GENERAL

PRESS‘'AND RADIO COMMENTS
GERMAN REACTIONS

STATION LIST

PAGE

10
13
16

18
22
25
28

--- Page 7 ---
lutritional survey teams from the Wuerttemberg Baden Public
examining Germans in Ulm to determine their health and nutritional status

Health Office

6

Serious Epidemics Prevented During First Year of Occupation;
Public Health Officials Continue Close Vigilence on German Health

S ince the start of the occupation of Ger-
many, the Public Health Branch of Mili-
tary Government has been responsible for
all affairs of civilian health. This includes de-
nazification of the German health system,
control of communicable disease, evaluation
of nutrition, supervision of environmental
sanitation, hospitals, laboratories, medical
supplies, narcotic control, veterinary affairs
and control of animal diseases. The Public
Health Branch also had the task of planning
for and ensuring the establishment of public
health organization and procedures and the
execution of programs by the Germans to
assure that the spread of disease and de-
velopment of epidemics would not become
a hazard to the health of occupation forces
and displaced persons and would not extend
to other countries or cause civil unrest.

The success of our being here as an oc-
cupation force is greatly enhanced if the
German people can mainiain reasonably
healthy bodies and minds, for then it can
be expected that the new ideologies we de-
sire them to accept will be favorably re-
ceived and assimilated. The public health
function has proceeded with this as the chief
premise.

DECLINING DISEASE RATES

Measures of disease control known to
preventive medicine are being uniformly
applied, and the success of application is
reflected in the declining disease rates for
those diseases in which this result of con-
trol could reasonably be expected. The
establishment of uniform public health con-
trol procedures in the US Zone of Germany

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 8 ---
is approaching completion and is resulting
in a high degree of success.

In the fall of 1945, warning was given
that if an epidemic occurred in Europe during
the winter it could take more human lives
than did the entire war. All available re-
sources were mobilized to combat health
hazards in what was referred to by some
military authorities as “the Battle of the
Winter”. Efforts were expended to reduce
serious overcrowding caused by movements
of people and an influx of refugees. The shor-
tages of food and fuel caused grave con-
cern, as did the disrupted transport system.
Superimposed on this picture was the de-
struction of war, the exhausted and demor-
alized population, the nearly complete
disruption of normal civil and social inter-
course and communications, and of medical
and health organization, and the lack of even
the most ordinary items of medical supplies,
as well as severe shortages of hospital facil-
ities.

DISASTER AVERTED

Life for a large part of the population
was in many respects thrown back to the
most primitive levels. However, last winter
was of historic importance because no health
disaster was allowed to develop. An utterly
defeated population was permitted to com-
mence the resurrection of its civic and do-
mestic life without having to suffer the bur-
dens of pestilence and disease.

Many of the dangers feared last year with
the approach of winter, still exist and, with
the advent of the fall and winter of 1946, pre-
parations must be pressed again to meet the
threat of an epidemic and famine. Most of
the conditions conducive to an outbreak of
influenza still prevail in Europe. The
epidemic of influenza that followed World
War I claimed more millions of lives than
did the war itself. Reports of the sporadic
occurrence of influenza were received in the
summer of 1945, and this warning was ac-
cepted by the US Army so that a newly-
prepared influenza virus vaccine was pro-
duced and held in readiness for immuni-

A civilian doctor in Bremen admistering a typhus
injection to a German woman.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 9 ---
zation on a mass basis to US Army person-
nel in case of an outbreak.

Production of influenza vaccine combining
the two common types, A and B, into one
vaccine was commenced in the US Zone
under MG direction in August 1945, and
has developed satisfactorily. Last winter
specialists in influenza virology came to the
Theater from the Surgeon General’s Office
of the US Army to instruct German spe-
cialists in the laboratory techniques of iden-
tifying the types of influenza virus. A diag-
nostic and control program was established
and studies were instituted to determine the
magnitude of the respiratory disease problem
and the nature of the respiratory diseases
then current in the German civilian popula-
tion.

VENEREAL DISEASE PROBLEM

Among other health matters veneral
disease is one of great concern. A total of
86,458 cases of venereal disease has been
reported among the civil population of the
US Zone of Germany from 1 June 1945 to
1 May 1946, including 67,522 cases of
gonorrhea and 18,936 cases of syphilis.
Complete uniform case reporting for venereal
disease was not required by the Germans
prior to occupation and therefore no valid
data is available for comparison with pres-
ent trends. Increased rates for reported
cases since the start of occupation therefore
reflect improvement in the reporting of cases,
and are not a true index of the extent of
increase of the disease in the civil population
over that recorded in the summer of 1945.

The present anti-V. D. campaign is high-
lighted by a three point program requiring
(1) reporting of all cases; (2) examination
of all contacts and suspected carriers; (3)
treatment of all cases, with penicillin be-
ing provided for treatment of gonorrhea.
Penicillin continues to be provided ade-
quately for reported cases of gonorrhea.
A total of 49,379 cases have been treat-
ed’ with penicillin since initiation of the
program in December 1945. The use of
penicillin has benefited the venereal disease
control program by encouraging reporting,

and by producing a more rapid and effective
cure of cases treated.

Tuberculosis, which caused 77 percent of
all deaths due to communicable diseases
during May 1946, stands high among health
problems. The spread.of tuberculosis is in-
creased by existing conditions, including the
presence of open cases circulating among the
population, overcrowding, and to some
degree the unfavorable effect of the present
nutrition conditions and environmental
factors.

The present situation with respect to TB
is a result of the Nazi decision to “use the
working capacity of the tubercular worker.”
Its result was that open tuberculosis cases
found their way out of sanatoria and
hospitals and back into circulation in the
community. Such cases in many instances
fell away from treatment and health control,
and were free to circulate and spread the
disease to other persons during the last
turbulent years of Nazi rule.

The present tuberculosis program is aimed
toward obtaining hospital facilities for the
hospitalization of all tuberculosis during its
infectious stage combined with an active
program designed to find all cases of tuber-
culosis that have not been brought under
observation.

DIPHTHERIA RATE

As early as 1933 diphtheria was on the
increase in Western Europe and the Scandi-
navian countries, and moved eastward, com-
mencing in Germany during the fall and
winter of 1942. In the relatively susceptible
population it found fertile soil. During suc-
ceeding winters, population movements,
crowding, and steadily deteriorating housing
conditions which favored spread, and occur-
rence of the disease increased yearly,
reaching the annual high during the months
of November and December.

Under occupation regulations the Ger-
mans were requireed to carry out a pro-
gram for immunization of all children. This
was supplemented by stringent requirements

(Continued on page 9)

--- Page 10 ---
ae |
ermany’s Forests

. Ss aaa “Seana
German workers shown loading newly-felled trees which will

be made into lumber products for essential use in the US Zone

G ermany saved her land from becoming
a desert by a program, started some 800 years
ago, of protecting and utilizing the forests
to the fullest advantages of the country’s
economy, but those same forests developed
into such a war potential during the recent
Nazi aggression that the Potsdam Declaration
specifically required their curtailment so as
to remove their contribution to any future
adventure.

Essential reconstruction and occupational
requirements, such as lumber products for
housing and rebuilding, pit props and fire-
wood, and the release of more land for agri-
cultural purposes, have caused an increase
in the annual cutting from the German
forests by 50 percent over the pre-war level,
which had been fixed at an amount equal to
the yearly growth-in other words, as much
woods is being cut in one year as would take

a year and half to grow.

The carrying-out of the program for meet-
ing these essential requirements also guided
the authorities along the course toward re-
alization of the provisions of the Potsdam
Declaration in respect to eliminating the war
potential of the German forests. A survey is
now being conducted under the direction of
the Forestry Section of the Economics Di-
vision. OMGUS, to determine the extent to
which this program is to be carried to fulfill
the Potsdam Declaration.

ANNUAL YIELD OF LUMBER

The forest lands in the US Zone of Ger-
many were estimated at 9,015,500 acres. On
the basis of the average growth of these
forest lands at 880 board feet per acre, this
normally provided 3,212,000,000 board feet
of lumber per year without causing any de-

--- Page 11 ---
crease in the total of forest areas. Before the
war, German foresters, taking ‘only the ‘in-
terest” from the forest {capital ,” attaindd a
sustained forestry yield.

As the Nazis started their aggression
through Europe, Germany relied’’on the
forests of occupied territories for the increase
in timber and wood requirements. The forests
of the Sudetenland in Czechoslowakia were
a valuable source of such Nazi loot, and they

“were located along tributaries to streams
passing through centers of wood-working
industries, thus providing cheap water trans-
portation.

SCIENTIFIC DEVELOPMENTS

To gear the forests to the war program,
German scientists developed methods of turn-
ing wood into food and clothing as well as
munitions, construction and fuel. Synthetic
wool, cotton and silk cloth were manufac-
tured from wood. Ninety-five percent of the
material used to make German soldiers’
uniforms came from wood.

The German scientists found means of
converting wood into edible products such
as sugar, yeast, syrup and wood flour. These
products were consumed by both men and
animals. Wood pulp was treated with sugar
syrup and then fed to cattle to fatten them.
Proteins obtained from a special process at
the pulp mills provided substitutes for other
proteins in the German army’s diet.

DEPENDENCE ON WOOD

The munitions used in the past war were
dependent on wood for the nitro-cellulose
used in making the powder. Wood was es-
sential to almost every activity of the Ger-
mans for carrying on their aggression, such
as the plywood that went into the manufac-
ture of airplanes and the cross-ties which
supported the network of railroads.

After the end of the fighting, the forests
continued as a vital factor in the reconstruc-
tion of the country. The occupational forces
have had to depend on the German forests
for many necessary materials to carry out

their work. The war-torn and destroyed
ities-ang towns in, Germany: pose the neces-
sity of rebuilding ‘homes and reestablishing
the ordinary facilities of government. There
is the necessity for building. up an export
business to balance the necessary imports.

Many wood activities have been revitalized.

Pit props are being sent into the Ruhr to

support the mining operations and conse-
quently to get coal in return. Lumber is
slowly getting into the cities for essential
rebuilding. Wood is going to the British
Zone to be made into plywood. The wood-
carving industry, a good contributor to ex-
port business, is reviving, particularly in
Bavaria. In the face of shortage of steel,
farm machinery and equipment are being
constructed out of wood.

IMPORTANCE AS FUEL

The vital problem of how the average
person is going to keep his home warm
during the winter, will be solved largely by
wood. There seems to be little coal available
for home use. So men, women and children
are going into the woods, sometimes long
distances from their homes, to scrounge for
wood — twigs, chips and stumps — and
carrying it home in their rucksacks or little
carts. This wood will be their chief supply
of fuel during the cold weather.

Lumber from the US Zone has furnished
one of the most important foreign exchange
deals of post-war Germany. <A contract for
sale of 650,000 cubic meters of lumber from
the Zone to the United Kingdom was conclud-
ed. This transaction added approximately
$14,500,000 to the total value of exports from
the US Zone, thus providing dollars to help
pay for the food being imported from the
United States into the Zone. It also furnished
Great Britain with lumber for housing and
general rehabilitation purposes.

The conversion of cut-off forest land to
agricultural purposes has been given serious
study by MG agricultural officials. Because
of the sandy texture of forest lands and the
need of large. quantities of fertilizer, which

--- Page 12 ---
is already far short of normal requirements,
this conversion has been difficult, but some
lands have been found suitable for growing
certain crops, particularly potatoes. Strenu-
ous efforts have been made by MG and Ger-
man authorities to use as much of these
former forests lands for agricultural pur-
poses as possible.

Looking toward the future, the Forestry
Section of the Economics Division, OMGUS,

seeks to maintain a balance in the German
forests with agriculture, industry and living
in general. Sufficient forests must be retain-
ed to protect the land, prevent erosion, keep
the streams and rivers in check during flood
times, provide materials for industry — not
to let Germany become a desert — but all
these aims must keep to the course that is
guiding the German people toward a peace-
ful and democratic way of life.

BATTLE AGAINST DISEASE (Continued from page 6)

on reporting, isolation and treatment of
cases, investigation of sources of infection
and improvement of diagnostic facilities.
The disease has continued to occur to an
increasing degree among the adult portion
of the population, to which the application
of. immunization procedures are impractical.
Its continued occurrence among US forces
gave rise to speculation on the identity and
strains of the predominating organism, and
in order to obtain fullest assistance in
establishing effective controls the aid of a
special mission was obtained from the
Surgeon Generals Office of US Army. For
this purpose the services of Dr. Franklin
Top and Dr. Frobischer of the Johns Hop-
kins University School of Public Health and
‘Hygiene were made available to the Public
Health Branch of OMGUS in February.

ZONE-WIDE SURVEY

At the request of the Deputy Chief
Public Health Officer for the US Zone, a
survey was made of civilian hospitals,
laboratories and German public health of-
fices, diagnostic facilities and procedures
in the Zone. Tours were made, cases of
diphtheria were observed and investigated
and special culture studies were performed
to determine predominant bacteriological
strains; hospital wards were visited, and
clinical, epidemiological and laboratory
aspects of diphtheria were reviewed. The
control program should be sufficient when

completed, though a moderate seasonal
increase in the incidence of diphtheria is ex-
pected to occur with the coming of fall.

CONTROL OF TYPHOID FEVER

When the occupation began Germany
found itself in the midst of widespread out-
breaks of infectious dysentery in nearly all’
urban centers, and typhoid fever rates were
rapidly rising. Measures were immediately
instituted to control the situation. Im-
munization was introduced in certain urban
centers such as Berlin where the environ-
mental sanitation could not immediately be
brought under control. The chief measures
instituted were correction of sanitary con-
trol of water supplies, including repair of
war-damaged water systems and chlorination
of those with remaining damage: the im-
provement of all sanitary facilities including
sewage and waste disposal; improvement of
sanitary control of food; more rigid ap-
plication of specific communicable disease
control measures, including reporting; and
isolation and treatment of cases, carriers
and contacts, with immunization of the last
group. Rates for intestinal diseases have
returned to the range that existed prior to
occupation. In order to stop the recurrence
of epidemics of typhoid fever, mass im-
munization of the population over five years
of age is being required in those com-
munities where the rate has exceeded the
expected levels.

--- Page 13 ---
'
Flour for German civilian consumption being unloaded from the hold
of an American liberty ship in Bremerhaven:

lL. you went walking by German food
shops in many of the cities of the US Zone
this spring, you’d see in the windows rows
of olive drab cans, once familiar only to
US troops as Army food. By now, canned
goods in the same civilian garb they’d wear
on US grocery shelves have appeared in
some places. Behind them is a story of how
MG has had to ship food from the United
States to fill big gaps in the German food
ration, in accordance with the American
policy of taking all necessary steps to pre-
yent disease and unrest.

But the whole story of U.S. “imports” in-
cludes not only food, but also shipments of
seeds, POL and cotton and the transfer of
Army vehicles and medical supplies.
Although food has been by far the biggest
part, the other imports too were essential
to permit the German economy to function
on even a minimum basis. The total amount
of United States food turned over to German
officials for civilian consumption by now

10

Signal Corps Photo

averages 100 pounds for every man, woman
and child in the U.S. Zone. The official
German rationing system keeps the food
moving out of German food depots and
wholesale warehouses to the food shops in
strict accordance with gaps in the local
food supply. Big cities have less German-
produced food and consequently use more
US imports. As a result, many families,
particularly in farming areas, are not fully
aware of the American contribution.

CONSUMERS UNAWARE OF ORIGIN

Even in the cities, where most of the
American food has been distributed, the fam-
ilies consuming it are often unaware of its
origin. ‘When it is packed in O.D. cans,
of course, the consumer knows that it comes
from the USA. But only 10 percent comes
in cans; most is shipped in bulk. There’s
no distinctively American look about flour
ground in German mills. from American
wheat, or US oatmeal or dried milk, peas

--- Page 14 ---
and beans.

Nor is their US origin obvious in most
of the other imports, and many Germans
know little about them. Since they have
only been supplied to fill serious shortages
in what the Germans can provide for
themselves, they have generally not had
Zone-wide distribution. German agencies
are responsible for arranging for any nec-
essary processing and for their release, |
usually through a rationing system. As a
result most US imports have finally reached
the civilian user in the same way he is
accustomed to receiving German products
— from shops, fuel pumps, in hospitals —
all through official German agencies.

SEEDS AN EXCEPTION

Seeds from the United States were an ex-
ception. The German farmers generally
knew that they were coming well in advance
through their agricultural groups. Now you
might think an American seed would look
just like a German seed, but when the US
seeds actually arrived the German agri-
cultural agencies found otherwise. American
seeds were highly superior in quality,
grading and cleanness to the seed many of
the German farmers had been accustomed
to using and they commented on it
enthusiastically. In many cases this had
been due to the fact that the Germans used
seeds produced on their own farms year
after year. Heavy weed infestation has
always been a problem in seed raised in
ancient German soil. Altogether, the US
seed imports added up to more than 12 thou-
sand long tons, or about 70 percent of the
seed brought into the US Zone last spring.

Another of the imports — enough cotton
to manufacture 27 million agricultural bags
— is losing its US identity very quickly. Two
US ships brought to Bremen nearly 10,000
tons of cotton, most of which is being spun
and woven in German textile mills into
cloth for bags. Much of the rest of it went

American food on the shelves of German stores
will soon be a familiar sight to the housewife
in the US Zone. (Left) American powdered eggs,
beans, peas and dehydrated potatoes on display
in a Frankfurt store.

Photos by PRO, OMG Creater Hesse

--- Page 15 ---
into manufacture of binder. twine and bind-
ing cloth for grain sheaves and thread for
sewing the bags.

Although agriculiural needs have a high
priority, a little of the cotton has been
earmarked by German officials for another
kind of crop. More than 100 tons of the
cotton are to be turned into layettes. No
one has figured out yet how many three-
cornered pants, crib sheets or small robes
will emerge from the process, and it is not
anticipated that this newest generation of
Germans will show much interest in the
source,

FUEL AND LUBRICANTS

You can’t tell by looking where the gas-
oline and Diesel fuel originates that keeps
the wheels going ‘round on the Daimler
Benz and Mannesmann trucks on the high-
ways, the Mercedes and Opel cars for Ger-
man officials, the Ford-type tractors on the
farms, the locomotives on German railways
and the machines in industrial plants and
the forestry and fire fighting outfits. How-
ever, the gasoline, kerosene, diesel oil, trac-
tor fuel and lubricants imported from the
United States for the German economy add
up to a tonnage roughly equal to the cargo
of two ten-thousand ton tankers per month.

‘There are no sources of refined petroleum
products in the US Zone of Germany and
although some is received from the British
4one, it has been necessary to import more
than 216,000 metric tons from the United
States for German use.

ALLOCATING MOTOR FUEL

The process of screening and allocating
minimum motor fuel and lubricant require-
ments for Germans is intricate, running from
the officials of the Kreise in the US Zone all
the way up to the Joint Army-Navy Pe-
troleam Board in Washington, D.C.. Re-
quirement figures are added up by German
officials in each Kreis and consolidated in
each of the three Laender. The relative
importance of each requirement is then
carefully screened by MG POL Officers in
each Land before the revised figures are sent
io OMGUS. In Berlin, these calculations

12

for the three Laender are consolidated and
sent to USFET. From Frankfurt, a figure
on total requirements for Germany is sub-
mitted to Washington — a combination of
the occupation Army’s own requirements
and those approved for German civilians.

Petroleum for German use goes directly
from the ships in Bremen into civilian ware-
houses and depots; its distribution is handled
by German personnel. New measures to
enforce the rationing of motor fuels to civ-
ilians more stringently were recently ap-
proved in the German Council of States.
Special departments have been established
in each Land Economic Office to supervise
distribution of the petroleum previously
handled through civilian motor pools or by
the Zone Office of Highway Traffic Control.

AIDING GERMAN TRANSPORT

The assignment of Army vehicles to essen-
tial German transport is an “import” which
has resulted in putting some unusual looking
jobs,on the highway. Workmen in German
shops have converted three-quarter ton
trucks into ambulances. With the addition
of a pumping unit a truck becomes a fire
engine. Body of a junked two and a half
ton truck, combined with the axle and wheels
of two junked one ton cargo trailers have
emerged as a serviceable four-ton truck-
trailer. Some of the two and a half ton
trucks are being tried out with a Diesel
engine, nade out of three-quarters of the old
motor plus a German-made cylinder head,
pistons, connecting rod and Diesel fuel in-
jector. Gas convertors have been built into
others. ‘

To date, more than twice the number of
trucks that could be produced in a year at
the June rate of German truck production
have been assigned by MG Transportation
Offices in the three Laender to the German
transportation authorities for essential uses.

Estimates of need began with a survey
last summer which showed only 22 percent
of the 1938 German trucks in the US Zone
still usable. In February the Army gave
approval for the eventual release of 12,500
vehicles. They are coming from the Ord-

(Continued on page 21)

--- Page 16 ---
US CONSULATES IN GERMANY

Offices in Six-German Cities Handle Problems for American Citizens,

Issue Visas to Displaced Persons Immigrating to the United States

Se US consular offices are operating’ in
Germany for handling passports of American
citizens and dependents, providing assistance
to certain Displaced Persons, considering ap-
plications for immigration visas, performing
specific services for US citizens and giving
consular aid for nationals of certain other
countries.

Three of the consular offices are located in
the US Zone — at Munich, Stuttgart and
Frankfurt. One is in the US Sector of Ber-
lin, one in the Bremen Enclave and one in
Hamburg in the British Zone.

The principal tasks of the consulates at
present are the determination of claims to
American citizenship with the consequent re-

ome =
q

patriation of American citizens, and the is-
suance of visas to Displaced Persons under
the President's directive of 22 December 1945.
Likewise they are issuing passports to of-
ficers of the US Army when the officers are
ordered to neutral countries on official
business.

President Truman, in his directive of 22
December 1945. ordered the establishment of
the consular offices and of procedures for the
resumption of immigration to the United
States from Europe, with particular atten-
tion given to DP’s. Under US laws, immi-
gration quotas are based upon the country
of birth. The largest groups of DP’s are
natives of countries whose combined quotas

Front view of the American Consulate in Bremen which reopened
1 May 1946 after being closed for over four years.

de

Signal Corps Photo

2

--- Page 17 ---
amount to approximately 39,000 each year.
Visas thay be issued not to exceed ten per-
cent of the quota of any country in any one
month,

All six consulates handle applications for
passports of American citizens desiring to
return to the United States, for non-quota
visas to husbands (married prior to 1 July
1932), wives and minor children of American
citizens; for first-preference quota visas to
husbands (married after 1 July 1932) and
parents of American citizens; for second-
preference quota visas to wives and minor
children of permanent alien residents of the
United States.

LIST OF DP CATEGORIES

Also all the consulates except the one at
Hamburg handle applications for: quota
visas of DP’s located in the area represented
by each consulate. The following categories
who are now and were resident in the US
Zone on and before 22 December 1945 were
listed as Displaced Persons:

1. Those who were brought involuntarily
into Germany from their home countries by
German authority for forced labor.

2. Those victims of Nazism or fascism who

fled their homes in countries other than Ger-
many to seek safety from the ravages of war
and have no homes to which to return.

3. Those who were removed from their
homes and confined to concentration camps
for scial or religious reasons or because of
opposition or resistence to the Nazi Party
or government of Germany, or those who
fled their homes to escape confinement on
those grounds.

4. Those who were involuntarily evacuat-
ed from their homes in countries other than
Germany by German military authority for
military reasons other than military service.

5. Those other than Germans who were
not racial, religious or political persecutees
of Germany, who have reasonable grounds
to fear to return to their home countries be-
cause of political, racial, or religious per-
secution.

6. Parents, wives, husbands, children,
brothers and sisters of those listed in the
first five categories and residing with them.
Residence in the US Zone on and before 22
December 1945 is not required of persons in
this category.

In addition, all the consulates handle ap-

BERLIN:
7 Huettenweg, Berlin-Dahlem
Tel.: OMGUS 76-5211, ext. 43 488
APO 742, US Army
Carlos J. Warner, US Consul

BREMEN:
15 Kurfuersten Allee
Tel.: 2811
APO 751, US Army
Maurice W. Altaffer, US Consul General

FRANKFURT:

11 Brockenheimer Anlage

Tel.: 24235

APO 757, US Army

Sydney Redecker, US Consul General

US CONSULAR OFFICES IN GERMANY

HAMBURG:

107 Hindenburgstrasse

Tel.: 34-7688

Via Special Messenger Service, Bremen:

Edward M. Groth, US Consul General
MUNICH:

28 Ludwigstrasse

Tel.: 2343

APO 403, US Army

James R. Wilkinson, US Consul General
STUTTGART:

Villa Haus, Gerokstrasse

Corner of Wagenburgstrasse

Tel.: 93664

APO 154, US Army

A. Dana Hodgdon, US Consul General

14

--- Page 18 ---
plications for quota visas of DP’s not enti-
tled to American passports or quota preference
in this group are: (1.) Children who are
orphaned or the existence and whereabouts
of whose parents are unknown; (2.) Persons
who have relatives in the United States with-
in and including the degree of first cousin;
(3.) all other Displaced Persons.

Claims for missing property, known or
believed to be located in the US areas of
Germany, such as land, buildings, household
goods, jewels and art objects, are channeled
through the American Consulate General in
Berlin to the Property Control Branch of
MG. This branch, a part of the Finance
Division of OMGUS, makes the necessary in-
vestigations and recommendations before
final settlement of the claims.

WELFARE CASES AIDED

A large number of welfare and where-
abouts cases are handled by the consular of-
fices in Germany, with the assistance of the
Central Tracing Bureau of UNRRA. These
inquiries concern not only American citizens,

but also United Nations nationals and Ger-
man nationals who are relatives of American
or United Nations nationals.

OTHER SERVICES PERFORMED

The consular offices in the US Zone and
in Berlin give such assistance as is possible
informally and on an ad hoc basis to the
nationals of Latin American countries, Egypt
and Iran. Also the consulate at Bremen
performs services for American ships and
seamen at that port.

American consular offices are authorized
to perform notarial services, some of which
cannot be performed by Army officers. For
example, many states require that documents
when executed abroad in connection with the
transfer of title to real property be executed
before an American consul. Certain states
require that depositions executed abroad be
taken before an American consular officer.

The Veterans Administration also uses the
consular offices as channels through which
to pay its pensions and the like to persons re-
siding within the respective consular district.

Seven Steps Towards German Democracy

Gen. Joseph T. McNarney, the military
governor, listed at a press conference at
USFET Headquarters the seven conditions
to be met by the German government before
it will be considered as democratized. These
conditions are:

1. All political power is recognized as
originating with the people and is subject to
their control.

2. Those who exercise political power are
obligated to obtain a mandate by frequent
reference of their programs and leadership
to popular elections.

3. Popular elections are conducted under
competitive conditions in which no less than
two effectively competing political parties
submit their programs and candidates for
popular review.

4. Political parties are recognized as dem-

15

ocratic in character and as volunteer asso-
ciations of citizens clearly distinguished from
rather than identical with the instrumentali-
ties of government. ;

5. The basic right of the individual, in-
cluding free speech, freedom of religious
preference, and the right of assembly,
freedom of political association, and other
equally basic rights of free men are recog-
nized and guaranteed.

6. Control of the instrumentalities of
public opinion such as the radio and the
press must be kept free from governmental
domination.

7. The rule of law is recognized as the
individual’s greatest single protection against
a capricious and willful exercise of govern-
mental power.

German News Service, ICD

--- Page 19 ---
Pictures taken by Allied Photographers at
the 33rd Meeting of the Allied Control Coun-
cil for Germany on 10 July 1946 are the first
photographs showing Marshal V. D. Soko-
lovsky and Air Marshal Sir Shalto-Douglas
as heads of the Soviet and British Delegations
respectively. Marshal Sokolovsky replaced
Marshal Gregory Zhukov; Air Marshal
Douglas succeeded Field Marshal Sir Bernard
L. Montgomery.

(Upper lett) The United States delegation; (lower left)
the British delegation; (upper right) the French dele-
gation; (center right) the Quadripartite Military Go-
vernors, left to right, Air Marshal Sir Shalto. Douglas,
Great Britain, General Joseph T. McNarney, United
States, General Pierre M. Koenig, France, and Mar-
shal V. D. Sokolovsky, Soviet Union; (lower right)
the Soviet delegation. Photos by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 20 ---
—

ae

--- Page 21 ---
Allied Control Authority

Drafts Two New Laws

Law No. 32, signed by the Control Coun-
cil, permits the employment of women on
building and reconstruction work in view
of the shortage of able-bodied men in various
sections of Germany. The number of males
of working age in Germany at present has
decreased by more than 6,000,000 since 1939.

The new law repealed provisions of the
Work Law, passed 30 April 1938, to prohibit
women from working in certain building in-

dustries, thus diverting female labor to muni-’

tions factories. However, health regulations
and working hours enforced under the old
law were not affected. Law No. 32 in no
way forces or asks Germans to utilize women
In reconstruction work.

Law No. 31, titled “Prohibition of Estab-
lishment of Police Agencies of Political
Character,” extended to the rest of Germany
a MG regulation which has been in operation
mm the US Zone for several months.

This law abolishes all German police agen-
cies and bureaus which have as their purpose
supervision or control of political activities
of persons within Germany. It also prohi-
bits any new organization or activity of po-
lice agencies or bureaus of this type. The
law became effective 5 July.

Quadripartite agreement has been reached
on the American proposal for one type of
uniform identification license plate for motor
vehicles in all Germany. Also approved was
an American proposal that an inventory be
taken of all motor vehicles to aid the Industry
Committee in planning parts manufacture
for 1947.

Clarification of Article 4 of Directive
No. 30 on the “Liquidation of German Mili-
tary and Nazi Memorials and Museums” was
approved by the Coordinating Committee.
The revised provision provides that monu-
ments erected in memory of the dead of the

18

regular army, excluding para-mi) organ-
izations, the SS and Waffen"SS, and pri-
vate monuments are not subject to destruc-
tion and liquidation provided the architecture
and inscriptions on them do not reflect nazi
or militaristic spirit and do not commemorate
the Nazi Party. Alterations may be made in
the architectural design, inscription or deco-
rations which would remove objectionable
characteristics.

Prisons Meeting

To promote uniformity of operations in
Bavaria’s 175 penitentiaries and jails, MG
and German civil officials of penal institu-
tions in Bavaria were scheduled to meet
Monday, 22 July, in Munich. Similar of-
ficials of Greater Hesse and Wueerttemberg-
Baden were invited.

As of 31 May, there were 15,089 persons
confined in Bavarian institutions for various
felonies and lesser criminal charges, accord-.
ing to the chief of Prisons Branch, OMGUS.
In the entire US Zone, the prison population
totaled 24,638.

Laenderrat Action

Proposals approved by the Laenderrat
Directorate at its third meeting for submis-
sion as requests to MG included: To effect,
through the Control Council, decentralization
to Munich, Stuttgart and Wiesbaden of
authority for issuance of interzonal passes;
to postpone recruitment of workers for the
Ruhr mines in view of unsatisfactory living
conditions in the Ruhr area; to make avail-
able US Army clothing for released German
prisoners of war.

The three laender of the US Zone have
been instructed by MG to prohibit formation
of political parties and political groups of
expellees and refugees, since US policy re-
quires that expellees be absorbed as integral

--- Page 22 ---
parts of the German population having equal
rights with them. Similar action has been
taken in the British Zone.

OMGUS has concurred in a plan recom-
mended by the Laenderrat that POL ration-
ing be handled by a separate German
agency on a monthly coupon basis. Under
this plan, OMGUS will delegate responsi-
bility for policing rationing programs.

Laender Draft Constitutions

Delegates, chosen by the German voters at
the 30 June elections, assembled last week in
the capital city of each of the three Laender
in the US Zone to begin work on drafting a
constitution for their respective land. The
final draft of a constitution for each land
must be completed by Sept. 15 for submis-
sion to MG for approval. Popular referenda
will be held not later than Nov. 3.

In Bavaria, the Christian Social Union has
a solid majority of 109 delegates out of the
180 meeting. In Wuerttemberg-Baden, the
Christian Democrat Union has the largest
political bloc with 41, nine more than the
Social Democrats. In Greater Hesse, the
Social Democratic Party has only two short
of half of the 90 constitutional delegates.

The provisional constitution for the city
of Berlin was approved by the Allied Kom-
mandantura with instructions for the writing
of the final draft. The proposal, based on
several former constitutions of Berlin, would
provide a city council of 130 elected repre-
sentatives. Drafting of a code of election
procedures for the city-wide elections in
October also was directed by the Kom-
mandatura.

400,000 Books Returned

Approximately 400,000 volumes have
been returned to the library of Heidelberg
University from the Heilbronn-Kochendorf
salt mines where they had been stored
throughout the war. This completed the
restoration of more than 1,125,000 volumes
to the university’s library.

19

Inter-Zonal Conference

German chiefs and their assistants in
charge of postal, telephone, finance and
personnel installations of the other three
zones of Germany have been invited by the
Post, Telephone and Telegraph Committee
of the Laenderrat of the US Zone to meet
with it in Stuttgart 1 to 3 August.

The purpose of the meeting is to discuss
a four-zone money order service to meet the
needs of increasing interzonal trade, the
question of sending pensions and other
payments to former postal employees and
other problems of mutual interest.

Newspaper Licensed

“Der Morgen” has been licensed at Mann-
heim as the 37th newspaper in the US Zone.
Its licensees are Dr. Oskar Hoerrle and E.
Friedrich Schilling von Canstatt. Published
three times a week, it will have an initial
circulation of 64,000.

OMGUS-Czech Agreement

Forwarding addresses of Sudeten Ger-
mans expelled from Czechoslovakia to the
US Zone of Germany are being kept by
Czechoslovakian authorities in order to aid
relatives in search of expelled families or
individuals.

Under an agreement by representatives of
OMGUS and the Czechoslovakian Govern-
ment in Prague 15—19 June, Sudeten Ger-
mans transferred to the US Zone shall
send to the District National Committee of
their last place of residence in Czecho-
slovakia written notice of their new address
in Germany. Czechoslovak authorities will
establish the necessary machinery so that
the addresses will be available to relatives
wishing to communicate with expellees.

This will be especially beneficial to dis-
charged Sudeten-German prisoners of war,
who may now communicate with Czecho-
slovak authorities in obtaining information
about lost relatives, rather than making the
long journey to their former homes. Inter-

--- Page 23 ---
national postage service recently established
between Germany and other countries helps
make this new address information service
possible.

Official Recommends

Sheep Slaughter in Zone

The slaughter of 270,000 sheep in the
US Zone was recommended by Dr. Hermann
Dietrich, Laenderrat Commissioner for Food
and Agriculture, to provide pasturage for
other livestock and additional supplies to
maintain the meat ration which was recently
increased. This slaughtering would reduce
the number of sheep in the Zone by about
25 percent.

The total number of sheep as of last Dec-
ember was more than 1,000,000 head, but
reported slaughter since September 1945
through May 1946 amounted to only a few
thousand.

Pointing out that this reported slaughter
amounted to only a small percent of sheep
numbers as of last. December, Dr. Dietrich
said even with permitted farm consumption
it appeared unbelievable.

“It indicates either considerable illegal
butchering or an irresponsible increase of the
number of sheep on pasture,” he said. “It is
high time that there should be an energetic
reduction of sheep numbers, particularly in
Bavaria and Wuerttemberg-Baden where the
largest number of sheep are held in the
Zone.”

Leicas Go Stateside

Twenty-two percent of the output of
Leica cameras ‘at the Ernst Leitz Optical
Works in Wetzlar, Greater Hesse, is
earmarked for export to distributors in the
United States, according to an OMGUS an-
nouncement.

The Leica will be placed on the American
market by the US Commercial Company, a
governmental agency handling all exports
to the United States. It is planned at a
later date to export other cameras of Ger-
man manufacture.

Dollar credit realized from the export

20

sale of the cameras will be applied against
the cost of imports into the US Zone.
Current estimated production of Leica
cameras is about 900 a month. The per-
centage allocated for export will be increased
in proportion to the rise in camera output,
which depends largely on the availability of
raw materials, fuel and transportation.
Previously nearly the entire production of
the Leicas and accessories went to the Army
Exchange Service for distribution through
the Post Exchanges. The needs of the Army
Exchange Service will continue to be met.

OMGUS Appointment

Dr. George Scatchard, professor of phys-
ical chemistry at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology and a former Guggen-
heim fellow, has been appointed chief of
the Scientific Research and Control Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS.

This branch is charged with the mission of
supervision of all fundamental and applied
scientific research particularly of a direct
military nature and in related fields which
indirectly create a war potential.

Opel Resumes Production

The second automobile factory went into
production in the US Zone when a ton-and-
half cargo truck rolled off the assembly line
15 July at the Opel Motor Works in
Riisselheim, Greater Hesse. American of-
ficials participated in the ceremony marking
the start of production.

The vehicle, known as a “Blitz,” is the
first of a series of trucks to be produced by
the Opel plant, a General Motors Corporation
subsidiary. Production, according to the
plant custodian and manager, is at present
limited to 50 units a day with material on
hand for about 1,000 units more. Within
four months, he said, the factory should be
producing between 1,250 and 1,500 trucks 4
month, provided sufficient
received.

The Opel concern, described as a firm
scheduled to remain in German economy,
chose production of the “Blitz” for its
simplicity of fabrication and because of its

material is

--- Page 24 ---
ability to stand up under the pounding of
present-day German roads.

British Zone Reorganization
The two separate provinces of North
Rhine and Westphalia in the British Zone
are to be united into one new province
known as Land North Rhine-Westphalia,
with its capital at Diisseldorf. The new
land will have the same boundaries as the
two present provinces with Land Lippe
transferred to the Hannover region.

The highly industrialized Ruhr section will
be separated from a reorganization planned
by the British MG and treated separately.
However, the Land North Rhine-Westphalia
will provide an agricultural hinterland for
the Ruhr.

The political structure reorganization
planned by the British MG seeks to balance
out the present nine political units of the
British Zone as to size and population. A
German zonal advisory council has been
asked to help to work out the redistricting.

The reorganization, to be started im-
mediately, will be carried out gradually.

The Berlin offices of the British MG have
been renamed Headquarters, Control Council
of Germany, British Element, while _ the
zonal headquarters, being shifted now from
Herford and vicinity to Hamburg, was
named Zonal Executive Offices of the Head-
quarters, Control Council of Germany, Brit-
ish Element.

Export Exhibit

A special export exhibition of articles pro-
duced in Wuerttemberg-Baden, using a
maximum of indigenous raw materials, will
be opened 1 August in the State Industrial
Museum in Stuttgart.

More than 300 exhibitors have arranged
with the export office of the Land Ministry
of Economics for display space. Approxi-
mately 400 items will be displayed, with
the stress laid on luxury goods, such as
Pforzheim and Schwaebisch-Gmuend jewelry
and handicraft articles fashioned by skilled
German craftsmen.

IMPORTED FROM THE US (Continued from page 12)

nance Depots, where redeploying troops
turned in their trucks and jeeps and com-
mand cars. Obviously the needs of the
Army itself and of UNRRA and the mini-
mum essential requirements of the liberated
countries come first.

Both Army surplus supplies and direct
imports from the United States have been
used to fill the German need for medical
supplies. Probably the best known has been
insulin for German diabetics because the
need was so acute and the ultimate re-
cipients so widespread throughout the Zone.
Twelve million units were shipped from the
United States last spring and another 17
million is scheduled to arrive in July. Dis-
tribution of the insulin is in the hands of
the German Public Health Offices.

Both the medical supplies and the

2t

complete equipment of nine US assembled
Army hospitals has also been transferred
to German public health authorities. Two
of them — the 101st General in Berlin and
the 113th Evacuation in Karlsruhe — were
1,000 bed size.

Last winter, movement and distribution of
vital needs like food and fuel and essential
military supplies on the rails was endanger-
ed because railway workers lacked adequate
warm clothing to keep them on the job. To
meet the special emergency, stocks of men’s
clothing brought to Germany by Civil Af-
fairs and MG were drawn on. Thirty thou-
sand pairs of wool trousers and workshoes
and an equal number of wool shirts were
approved for transfer to German officials.
They were distributed to the railway work-
ers who most urgently needed clothing.

--- Page 25 ---
Comment of Soviet Represe

Examined in Stateside Editorials

Recent American editorial reaction to three
specific statements by Russian representatives
combined open-minded criticism with a de-
sire for a freer exchange of ideas and opin-
ions between the two countries in the inter-
ests of the peace aims of both the American
and Russian people.

The statements commented on were those
by Ilya Ehrenburg, Russian writer who re-
cently completed a tour of the United States
as guest of the US State Department and
then wrote an article on his impressions of
the United States; by Boris Isakov in the
Soviet paper Pravda in which he criticized
US motives in the recent atomic bomb tests
in the Pacific; and by Russian Ambassador
to the United States Nikolai V. Novikov,
who voiced confidence that differences
between the Soviet Union and the United
States will be peacefully settled.

Commenting on Ehrenburg’s tour and ob-
servation, the Chicago Daily News said in
part: “This country would welcome hundreds
of Russian intelligentsia like Ehrenburg,
hundreds of run-of-the-mill Russian visitors.
‘We would like for Russia to make it pos-
sible for comparable numbers of Americans
to visit Russia. If the people of the two
countries are ever to understand each other,
such an exchange of visits must be encour-
aged.”

Detroit Free Press: “Obviously Ehrenburg
is going home in the mood of wonder, and
wonder is the beginning of wisdom . . . but
by all means let us return visits. That is
the way for two great peoples to learn how
to understand each other.”

New York Herald Tribune: “It would be

easy enough to note the relative unimpres-
siveness of the sins which Mr. -Ehrenburg
ascribes to the United States as compared
with those which the press of this country
has decried in the Russian system. It would
be easy to report to Mr. Ehrenburg that not
every Russian who discusses American ways
has either his opportunities to see or his will
to understand; that slander, as opposed to
serious criticism, is not the monopoly of the
American press.”

“But these points, after all, have less mean-
ing than the fact that Mr. Ehrenburg was
able to study the United States, that he did
desire to know it, and that with all the faults
he found here, he also found friendship for
himself and for his country, found idealism
and practical striving toward goals which all
men of good will hold right and honorable,
found excitement and hope. It is the basis
of such appreciation, when it can become
common to all people of both countries, that
true understanding and collaboration can be
built.”

After taking exception to Isakov’s criticism
of the Atom-bomb tests, the Louisville Cour-
ier-Journal added: “. . . the fear our two
countries feel toward each other is the great-
est danger both nations face.” The news-
paper went on to say: “The new Soviet
Ambassador, Nikolai Novikov, seems to
understand that fundamental point. ‘I know
this’, he said in his first interview, ‘that the
people of United States do not want to wage
war against the Soviet Union or against any
other country.’ If he could give that con-
viction to his government and his people, he
would earn the undying gratitude of the

--- Page 26 ---
masses in both America and Russia.”

The St. Louis Star-Times, also linking the
statements of Isakov and Novikov comment-
ed: “(Isakov’s) mistake was a major one;
the tests carried out are witnesses not to
preparation to destroy this world but on the
contrary to work toward its perfection. The
tests are witnesses to the world at large that
the atomic bomb is so grim a threat to all life
that no nation dare run the risk of a war
that may be fought with that bomb. Fortu-
nately Isakov’s voice for all its stridency is
single in its sounding.”

“At the very time his marginal notes were
appearing in Pravda, Nikolai Novikov, the
new Russian Ambassador to this country,
was pledging peace between his nation and
ours; in Paris the Big Four were fast nearing
agreement on the basic problems of peace
treaties; and the United Nations Atomic
Control Commission was meeting in an
atmosphere of frankness and obvious willing-
ness to work toward some method of putting
the force of nuclear fission on a humane leash.

“The problem, however, is to keep the
voice of Isakov single. The problem is to
make all of Russia’s Isakovs see the real
meaning of the atomic bomb — and with
them all of this nation’s scoffers who are
beginning to live so easily with atom bombs
and to discount its possibilities for ca-
tastrophe.”

Satisfaction Expressed
At Conference Results

A note of deep relief and considerable
satisfaction ran through the American press
and radio comment on the recent achieve-
ments of the foreign ministers’ conference in
Paris. The overwhelming majority expres-
sed gratification that an agreement was
finally reached on holding the peace conf-
erence.

Commentators agreed almost unanimously
that Germany is the key to the peace and
express satisfaction that the foreign ministers
had decided to take up the German question,
although few were willing to chance pre-

diction on’four-power agreement.

The main criticism was the lack of unified
economic control in Germany and protests
against “air-tight” zones. The trend in the
press and on the radio seemed to set the stage
for reluctant acceptance of the necessity for
close western cooperation if agreement on
immediate interzonal trade is not forth-
coming.

Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov was
given prominence for his pronouncements on
German policy, but the press reaction was
not good. Russian claims for $10,000,000,000
in reparations have particularly irked com-
mentators, who suspect American taxpayers
would foot the bill. To many, Molotov’s pro-
posals seemed a bid for German favor and
in effect a boost for the German Communist
Party.

US Urged to Assume
World Trade Leadership

The importance of the US Government
in smoothing “the road to an expanded world
trade” and of USeconomy to the world’s
economic well being was emphasized by Wil-
liam L. Clayton, Assistant Secretary of State
for Economic Affairs, and Henry A. Wallace,
Secretary of Commerce, in an NBC “Our
Foreign Policy” series broadcast.

“The United States is by far the greatest
factor in world trade today,” said Clayton.
“We are the largest producer and the world
is in desperate need of our goods. We are
also the only important lender on earth.
This is a decisive moment for us. We have
the opportunity to lead the world toward
expanding trade, toward peace and plenty.
We shouldn’t fumble this time . . .

“I believe our business men will rise to
the occasion — with money, men and techno-
logical known-how .. . industry has men
with courage and vision . . . given the green
light, I believe they will go ahead. That’s
the job of our government, and the purpose
of international trade policies . . .”

For eliminating pre-war and wartime bar-
riers to international commerce, Clayton said,

--- Page 27 ---
“There is the international monetary fund,
which will help to stabilize currencies and
thereby contribute to expansion of world
trade. There is the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development — the other
half of the Bretton Woods plan — which
will help to restore economics of the de-
vastated countries, and help them to develop
their own resources for world commerce.
Congress has already approved those meas-
ures.”

Wallace added, “There are our own loans
through the Export-Import Bank ,.. I think
we shall have to make further loans — large
loans to many countries — if we seriously
want to exercise leadership for peace and
greater freedom of trade. There will be pri-
vate banks in the United States making loans
to foreign governments and also direct in-
vestments abroad by American business con-
cerns...

“TI know the cost of an extensive lending
program may make many people uneasy. But

these loans will cost only a tiny fraction as _

much as war. .. .we’ve got to make the
loans, but we’ve also got to remove restric-
tions on trade so they can be paid back.”

Article Examines Recent
German Political Trends

In an article appearing in The Nation,
Saul K. Padover discussed the present align-
ments and trends in Germany. He stated
that “one of the most significant develop-
ments. in Germany is the gradual emergence
of political consciousness and political con-
flict. The paralyzing apathy of the Hitler
period, while still affecting large sections of
the population, is slowly giving place to a
participation, or desire for participation, in
public affairs. The Germans still have a
long road to travel, but the important thing
is that they have begun the journey. A sur-
vey revealed that 60 percent of the persons
interrogated thought that political activity
was somehow desirable; Four percent were
hostile or indifferent. But the gap between
thought and action is still wide. In the same

24

poll 95 percent admitted that they were fot
politically active in any way.

“The poll also threw light on the people’s
attitude toward political parties. Hostility
to a multi-party state is still, in fact, the
basic tenet of the Nazi-fascists, and many
Germans, especially the younger ones, con-
demn democracy mainly on the ground that
it tolerates parties. The standard Nazi-
fascist-conservative argument against the
Weimar Republic is that it permitted thirty
or forty parties, which meant anarchy.
Among the German youth the older ones are
still firmly attached to the Fuehrer principle
— regardless of who the Fuehrer might be.”

UN or World Government

The desirability of a world government
was discussed by three members of Congress
on a recent University of the Air broadcast
entitled “One World — or Two.”

Senator Glen Hanu Taylor, Idaho Demo-
crat, stated, “Only an agency stronger than
national governments can cope with the pro-
blem of atomic energy. What we need is
an organization representing the people of
the world — a real world government.” He
believed the people of the world should
elect’ their own representatives to a world-
wide republic, with a limited scope, but with
real power to deal with peace and economic
problems. He also proposed the General
Assembly of UN be transformed into “a real
legislature or law-making body, responsible
directly to the people of all nations.”

Rep. Charles Savage, Democrat of the
State of Washington, agreed on the broaden-
ing of the General Assembly powers, but
believed a popular election of UN delegates
may take some time.

He strongly supported the adoption of the
Baruch atomic energy plan and believed that
if “we can get nations, to agree on that, we
have the beginnings of a world government.
If we can’t agree, we won’t even have a
UN for very long.”

Senator George D. Aiken, Republican of
Vermont, held a world government an im-

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 28 ---
Licensed Press Claims
People Forget Past Sins

The German press in the US Zone is
taking an increasingly critical editorial
tone toward the forgetfulness of the German
people concerning the national sins of the
past, according to Information Control re-
ports on recent press opinions.

“The trial of the German conscience is
proceeding in Nuremberg, but nobody wants
to take notice,” said the Marburger Presse,
than asking: “Has the world ever witnessed
such a degree of lethargy?”

The Frankfurter Neue Presse remarked,
“The world simply cannot believe us, either
en bloc or even individually, as long as we
still have not realized our political guilt.”
The Donau Kurier, Ingolstadt, said “One
might almost despair of the political abil-
ities of our nation.”

The proposed press law received con-
siderable comment from the German news-
papers. The Weser Kurier (Bremen) des-
cribed the proposal as a “balance between
protection of a free press and the prevention
of press abuses.” Bavarian papers tied
with the press law draft the recent Infor-
mation Control instructions to resist
attempts by German governmental agencies
to withhold or diciate news.

Federalist Germany

The US licensed Tagesspiegel was critical
of Otto Grotewohl’s recent rejection of
federalism, made at a press conference in
which he claimed that the splitting of Ger-
many would mean a regression for several
decades.

“Grotewohl’s statement,” opined the paper,
“seems to indicate he regrets the breakdown
of the ‘Greater Reich’.. The only lesson
one can draw from the development of the
past is that a centralistic German Reich will

always be antidemocratic. Only wh
leading power is systematically split up ca
oue hope for a democratic development. More
plainly expressed, democray and.a unity
Reich cannot be brought together — the only
possibility for doing this is when one per-
verts the sense of democracy into a contrary
meaning and gives it the sense of a strive
for power, as was done recently in a Berlin
paper which said: ‘Democracy is the dictator-
ship of the proletariat.’

The paper turned to another SED leader,
Max Fechner, and cited his recent rejection
of a two-chamber parliamentary system be-
cause the SED sees in it a vote of mistrust
against the people.

“This expert of history,” declared the
paper, “sees in a split of power — the fun-
damental law of any real democracy — a
‘remainder of the fight of liberalism against
feudalism.’” To this the paper cited a state-
ment by Bebel: “Mistrust is a virtue of
democracy.”

Germer Resignation

In the field of personalities the resignation
of Karl Germer from the central secretariat
of the Social Democratic Party received edi-
torial comment in the Berlin press. Tages-
spiegel found that Germer’s resignation is
symbolic of the inner dissension within the
SPD which prevents the party from coming
out with a positive party program. Further,
the paper opined it is about time that the
party did come out with such a program,
just as it is time that the party shows
whether it differs from the Socialist Unity
Party in trifling items or in principle.

The French licensed Kurier also declared
it is about time that the Social Democrats
proved they are different from the SED.
“It is clear,” stated the paper, “that the
slight philosophical differences between the
Communists and democratic Marxism are not

--- Page 29 ---
strong enough to give the Social Democratic
Party its own active political strength.

SED Circular Letter

The Telegraf attacked the SED, claiming
that “a party which doesn’t grant to its
members the fullest democracy, but which
in turn hands out commands from central
committees and district managements is not
entitled to act as champion of democracy
and call itself a democratic party.”

The paper quoted a circular letter of the
district leadership of the SED of Magdeburg.
Tn this letter the leadership advised all
leaders that they should divide local groups
into small groups which can easily be con-
trolled, for the leaders must have the possi-
bility to control every member. Further, the
letter stated the SED members are represent-
atives of the party in every public office
they hold because the “democratic way to
socialism” can only be ensured by “the
party having the immediate leadership in all
domains of social life.”

Telegraf ironically noted such phrases as
“control of groups, control of members, re-
presentatives of the party, immediate leader-
ship,” stating: “these are the recipes for the
democratic education of a labor party!”

The paper declared the circular letter was
not one drawn by a democratic and socialist
organization but was more a decree which
couldn’t have been drawn up better by a
Prussian corporal.

Political Propaganda ?

The Telegraf, British licensed organ,
charged the city council with self-advertis-
ing deeds as a means of political prgpagand-
izing for the coming municipal elections in
September.

“Before the parties start checking the
work done by the Magistrat, the Magistrat
is already active in placing its work in the
right light,” declared Telegraf, pointing out
that anyone can show his work in the cor-
rect manner.

Citing examples, the paper referred to

26

placards which have been hung in food
shops advising Berliners that the Magistrat
has guaranteed the winter’s food supply.
The paper states that the Magistrat would
have done better to explain why there has
been such a poor vegetable supply for Ber-
lin. The paper further pointed out that
these placards only incidentally mention aid
and help given by the occupation forces.

“Broad circles of the Berlin population,”
declared the paper, “are convinced that the
overcoming of the food supply difficulties
last winter did not so much depend on the
‘careful planning’ of the Magistrat, but on
the generous assistance of the occupation
forces. It would have been better to give this
statement, which was only mentioned inci-
dentally, more room, for it was the assistance
of the occupation forces which made possible
the planning of the Magristrat. Such plan-
ning is a self-evident matter, and self-evident
matters need not be propagated.”

German Youth

In a long article on youth, Telegraf noted
that the young people of today are faced
with the same matter of readjustment they
faced after the first world war. The paper
gained some hope from the fact that it re-
ceived many letter daily from young people
who show that they energetically strive to
create a new way.

“Youth,” declared the paper, “does not
want to be pitied. They hope only to find
a way, hard as it may be.”

In its front page editorial on youth,
Neues Deutschland also noted the hard road
facing the youth, observing that it is not
made any easier by the example given it
by adults and various newspapers which
only cite negative things in connection with
youth.

“The outstanding achievements carried
through under most difficult conditions by
young people, ......... » are not mentioned
by them,” declared the paper, observing that
the heroes and new ideals of the German
youth are different today.

--- Page 30 ---
Berlin Radio Comment

To explain to its licensers “Things We
Must Know,” Radio Berlin advised Berliners
of the importance of America’s Independence
Day, citing the Declaration of Independence
as “one of the most important milestones in
the history of mankind because in it the
principle of equality of all people was pro-
nounced for the first time in the world
history.”

Advising in connection with this that Ger-
many find the way to a new state order, the
radio declared that if this state order shall
be a democratic one it must start from Ger-
many’s own national wants and economic
necessities and must not be the imitation of
the existing democracies.

On another program the radio continued
its interest in America by explaining the
working of the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives in a straight factual report.

* * *

A news dispatch from Potsdam cited the
founding in Brandenburg of an Advisory
Assembly to the provincial administration.
Not elected but appointed, the assembly will
become a forum for joint work against the
farmers, resettlers, and youth. According to
the radio, on 24 July the assembly was

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

possibility right now. It is his opinion that
we should devote our energies to making the
UN work and taking advantage of the
flexible provisions of the Charter to strength-
en and improve it.

The three speakers agreed on various steps
of world cooperation which should be taken
without delay. These steps included:

An international police force which should
be a mixture of men of all United Nations,
taught a common language.

A strong system of international trustee-
ship under the UN.

An integrated world economy, including
the freeing of world trade;

slated to consider the confiscation of pro-
perties of war criminals and Nazis.

* * *

Municipal elections were explained by the
radio, citing them as one of the best examples
of practical democracy that the people can
have. The radio cited the coming municipal
elections as proof that the German people
have realized that democratic progress and
a democratic public life can assure a better
future for the German people.

LDP Convention

Commenting on the recent LDP convention
held in Erfurt, Der Morgen, the LDP organ
in Berlin, stressed the work of the past year
achieved by the “anti-fascist” parties and
cited the fundamental ideas behind the
Liberal Democratic Party.

“The LDP is no compulsory organization,”
declared the paper. “Its members are bound
together in the great ideas of the liberal
democracy.”

“This convention is also a day of call and
proclamation,” states the paper. “We make
our political pledge by strong work for
unity, liberty, and the sense of life of our
people and particularly our youth...”

(Continued from page 24)

Simplification of passport regulations.
Strengthening of the international court by

giving it — as Senator Aiken put it — “com-
pulsory jurisdiction over certain types of
disputes.”

One international language.

Concluding the program Senator Taylor
said: “I want to warn again that unless we
move fast to convert the UN into a real
world government, it may split into blocs...
If this country is to take the lead in world
affairs, as it should, we must steer clear of
power politics and blocs, Otherwise we shall
simply be contributing to a break-up of the
one-world philosophy of the UN.

--- Page 31 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Wiirttemberg-Baden

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Col W W Dawson

(APO 154)
Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford
Stuttgart Area
*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Béblingen ist Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Maj S A Warren
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Ist Lt R R Mayer
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Nirtingen Capt P F Sullivan
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Ist Lt U S Aiello
Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen Ist Lt G H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Ist Lt D E Bedard
Karlsruhe Area ,
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK. Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj R_H Stimson
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Ist Lt L L Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim Ist Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK. Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
*LK Oehringen Oehringen Ist Lt M Korsun

* Liaison and Security

28

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Capt R N Tharp
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R_H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Ist Lt J E Switzer
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt B V Bloom

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hiinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Bidingen

29

Col J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed

Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt G E Schmoeker
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj R A Gish

Capt R O Didlo

Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 8rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

Co A

*SK/LK Wurzburg
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen

*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lohr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Hessen (Cont’d)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA

Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

Munich

Munich

Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt J T Hughes
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Mueller

Col C_C Morgen
Capt J W Preston
Capt L R Clark

Maj I P Chestnut
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt J R Hurst
Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt M Colbert
Capt A T Neumann
Capt Grodzinski
1st Lt G E Mair
Capt J J Gotter
1st Lt G F Fechan
Capt K L. Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W E Brayden
Capt C Boden
Capt E E Kelly
Capt Griffin

ist Lt L K Owens
Capt O A Jenson
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic

Capt L A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

CoB

SK/LK Nurnberg
*SK/LK Bamber,
*SK/LK Bayreuth
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Coburg
*SK/LK Hof
*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Furth
*SK/LK Kulmbach
*LK Kronach

*LK Lichtenfels
*LK Ebermannstadt
*LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamber;
Bayreu
Erlangen
Coburg
Hof
Ansbach
Farth
Kulmbach
Kronach
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
itz
Munchberg

30

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J R Case

Capt D F Stroup, Actg
Lt Col F M Guild

Maj S Klein

Maj H L Woodall
Capt J R Palmer, Actg
Maj A C Abbott

Maj H T Lund

Capt J F Begley

Maj F W Crimp

Ma) R T Boyer

Capt O E Palmer

Capt M G Stamatis
Maj H C Kauffman

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forchheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hilpolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing

*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth

*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen

*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach

*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss

*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf

Neustadt a. d. Aisch

Naila
Stadtsteinach

Regensbur;
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a. d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainbur;
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
‘Wegscheid

31

Capt W W Evans

Maj T Cleary

Maj H W Zurn

Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

Ist Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielson

Ist Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

Ist Lt W C Williams

Maj F K Hinchey

Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt N A Carr
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultren
Capt H C Moore

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Lt Col Hastings

Capt J W Bossert
Maj G J Geiner

Maj H L Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Maj T R Coykendall
Capt G L Milner

Ist Lt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Crowle
Ist Lt T B Wofford
Capt L R Mariels

Ist Lt L W Kutz
Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt H Cohen

Lt S Fuchs

1st Lt R M McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

Ist Lt N Fueglein
Ist Lt N Ugland

Lt M J Sibal

Capt G W Cunningham
Lt J D Brooks

Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt W W Green
Capt E J Gallant
Capt C_H Smallwood
Ist Lt P J Piccola
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
Ist Lt F Henry

Maj E Fichter

Ist Lt M W Doane
Ist Lt T A Winkelspecht
1st Lt W_Y Murphey
Capt J W Fleshman
1st Lt G L Thomas
Lt J C Mitchell

1st Lt H H K Theune
Lt P A Nesbit

1st Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

1st Lt K J Miller

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altotting

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Tolz

*LK Aibling

*LK Furstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauwirth
*LK Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

‘Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich

Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altotting
Partenkirchen
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Tolz

Bad Aibling
Furstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsbur;
‘Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Donauwérth
Gunzber,

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 1755)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

32

Lt Col R F Philpott
Capt Kurt Baer
Capt R H Necel
Capt W Lasserty
Maj E W Boney
Capt W A Lovatt
Maj C H Bischoff
Maj A H Wright
Maj M W Nitz
Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W_N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
Ist Lt H Klein
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Lawrence
Maj F Onen

1st Lt H J Thompson
Capt H J Hierman
Maj A G Snow

Maj C A Rein

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea
Capt R Glass

Ist Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green
Ist Lt W M Toepser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schank
Lt P W Thomson
Capt S D Lubin

Ist Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Greaves

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs