--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 56 / 26 AUGUST 1946

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
OPF MARBURG

LAUTERBACH.
OBER *
LAHNKREIS

a : FRIEOBERG
IT,

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH

HEILBRONN

LEONBER:

BOBLINGEN Fras

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Post Exchange Rations for Prisoners of War
Water Designators . . . . 2. 1 1 ee ep ee
Applicant Fingerprint Cards

Conversion of Heating Plants from Oil to Coal .

Demilitarization of Captured Toxic Ammunition

Plan for Reporting Status of Personnel by Separation Criteria .
Payment of Blood Doners .

Logistical Support for World’s Alliance and International YMCA. .
Rental of Equipment .

Monthly Statistical Report on Administration of Military Justice
Processing and Payment of Procurements, and Damage Claims Against
the US Arising in Germany . . . . . . -

Representation of Foreign Interests .

Table of Clothing and Equipment Allowance for the European Theater

Survey of Unauthorized Publishing Activities

AES 331.3
13 July 1946, USFET

AG 370.5 GCT-AGO
26 July 1946, USFET

AG 200.2 AGO
27 July 1946, USFET

AG 674 ENG-AGO
30 July 1946, USFET

AG 471 CWS-ACO
30 July 1946, USFET

AG 201.1 GAP-AGP
31 July 1946, USFET

AG 742 MCH-AGO
31 July 1946, USFET

AG 400 GDS-AGO
31 July 1946, USFET

AG 475 GDS-AGO
2 August 1946, USFET

AG 250.4 JAG-AGQ
2 August 1946, USFET

AG 120 (LD)
6 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.12 (DP)
12 August 1946, OMGUS

Circular No. 113
10 August 1946, USFET

AG 461 (IC)
19 August 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
“Photo by Bowlds, PRO, OMGUS

MANNA FROM US — The picture on
this week's cover shows a three year-old girl _
sitting next to a carton of ten-in-one rations at
the warehouse in Berlin-Steglitz where the first

shipment of CARE packages fo arrive in Berlin

were distributed. For other pictures showing 4;

the distribution of these packages see “CARE
Program” on ees of this issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS. :

Employee Relations was ‘ecitien re Paul»

Lutzeier, Chief of the Employee Relations

Section, Personnel Division, OMGUS. Before | a

his recent arrival in the theater, Mr. Lutzeier

had been public relations director of the Detroit
City Plans Commission and personnel director of
a machine tool manufacturing concern in Detroit.

Robert H. Ethridge of the Road Branch,

Transport Division, OMGUS, prepared the arfi-

cle “Highways of the US Zone.” A former Army — at
Captain, Mr. Ethridge served with the Trans-
portation Corps in France, Belgium and

Germany prior to joining OMGUS.

“Year Alter Victory” is areprintofthe “Letter __

from America,” distributed by the Office of Polif-

ical Affairs, OMGUS, on the first anniversary | oe a

_ V-S Day.

Wickens served as Executive Olficer of Bolling
eBieid in Washington, D. C. before coming to
es a ee ee

cae ea a)

“Wehrmacht Lands” was written by Major :

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Highways of the US Zone
Wehrmacht Lands

Employee Relations

Central German Agencies: Part 3
Year After Victory

CARE Program

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
STATION LIST

PAGE

14
16

18
22
24
28

--- Page 7 ---
HIGHWAYS OF

he existing higway transport system of

Germany has an estimated capacity of .

more than 2,000,000,000 kilometer-tons an-
nually, which should be sufficient to serve
the needs of the approved essential German
economy. However, the transport capacity
of the existing fleet of vehicles is approaching
the highest point it can be expected to attain.
Whether highway transport can long main-
tain its present capacity depends on the abil-
ity of German production to supply new
vehicles, spare parts and tires in sufficient
quantity to keep the present fleet rolling.

PICTURE AT END OF WAR

The need for highway transport, always a
vital factor in Germany’s transportation
system, became even greater in the months
immediately following the end of the war.
Rail and water transportation were handi-
capped by destruction of fixed routes but
highway transportation was not so severely
affected. With long distance traffic curtailed,
the emphasis was on purely local hauling
essential for economic survival. As a result
the demand for local motor transport was
even greater than normal and, in addition,
highway transport had to fill in the gaps in
the rail and water systems until destroyed
tracks and navigation channels could be
restored.

The situation on V-E Day was far from en-

couraging for operation of the highway
transport system was practically at a stand-
still. The German organization to direct,
control and coordinate highway transport no
longer existed. Most of the more than 100,000
trucks, buses and cars in the US Zone were
inoperable. A large part had been confis-
cated by the Wehrmacht for its use in the
closing days of the war and these were
promptly impounded as captured enemy
material. The same was true of stocks of
spare paris and tires. Vehicles remaining in
private hands were either mechanically unfit
or could not be operated due to lack of fuel
or tires. Many of the repair shops had been
destroyed. Others were required for the
maintenance of US vehicles.

ACTION TAKEN BY MG

To meet the situation, Military Govern-
ment established a Road Branch within its
Transport Division and made it responsible
for rehabilitation of the German highways
and highway transport system in the US
Zone. The first step was the establishment
of an organization of MG and German author-
ities to supervise and control German high-
way transport. From the very outset Mili-

(Below) A stretch of the autobahn between Munich
and Stuttgart; (below right) a repaired bridge between
Niederursel and Oberursel which was built by German
contractors under the supervision of a US Army en-
gineer battalion.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 8 ---
tary Government pursued the policy, with
respect to highway transport, of placing
complete responsibility for operations in the
hands of the German authorities. As quickly
as they could organize to assume this re-
sponsibility, German authorities were given
complete freedom of action within a frame-
work of MG policy.

German commercial highway transport had
previously been controlled by two organi-
zations. The Reichskraftwagen Betriebsver-
band controlled long distance trucking. Der
Gueternahverkehr was the agency of greatest
influence in the field of short distance traffic.
Both were strongly influenced by the Nazi
Government and their characteristics were
such that their abolishment was required by
MG policy. It then became necessary to
authorize and direct the reorganization of
German government authorities in the field
of highways and highway transport.

OUTLINE OF ORGANIZATION

As finally established, the organization
consists of an office to deal with highway
transport at Land, Regierungsbezirk and
Kreis levels. The Land agency is known as
the Bevollmaechtigter fuer den Nahverkehr
(NBY). The Regierungsbezirk office is known
as the Gruppenfahrbereitschaftsleiter, and

the Fahrbereitschaftsleiter (FBL) functions
at Kreis level. Coordination of the NBV
offices is effected at Zone level through the
Laenderrat. Similar offices, known as
Strassenbauamt, were established for high-
way maintenance.

PRINCIPLES OF POLICY

The next step was to establish the general
framework of basic policy within which the
Germans would be permitted to rehabilitate
the highway transport system. This was
prescribed in MG Regulations, in which the
fundamental principles are:

Highway transport is confined to short

haul traffic that cannot be carried by

water or rail.

Rehabilitation in such a manner as to

create any war potential is prohibited.

Denazification policies are strictly observed.

Only operations necessary for the Occu-

pation Forces and essential German econ-

omy are allowed.

Individual enterprise is encouraged and

government monopoly in the operation of

highway transport is prohibited.

Compulsory government-controlled trade

groups are abolished.

The next important task was to insure
that the German authorities actually got the

--- Page 9 ---
highway transport system back into opera-
tion, Arrangements were made for the return
of captured and impounded equipment to the
German economy. The German authorities
could — and did — immediately set about
getting their vehicles rolling again. As a
general rule spare parts and tires were put
back into normal dealer channels. Repair
facilities were reopened. Unrepairable ve-
hicles were salvaged to increase the stock of
spare parts. To conserve fuel a program
was undertaken to convert vehicles to the
solid fuel, gas-generator type.

Despite these efforts, it appeared the Ger-
man indigenous highway transport resources
would fall short of meeting requirements.
There was little prospect of any immediate
indigenous production to relieve shortages.
A major.contribution to relieve this situation
was the sale to the German economy of
12,500 vehicles from US military stocks. This
allocation included types of vehicles from
jeeps to 22-ton low-bed trailers.

CONTROL SYSTEM INSTITUTED

To insure maximum utilization of highway
transport and avoid wasteful operations, a
strict. system of control was instituted. All
vehicle movements were. controlled by the
FBL. Maximum loading was obtained by
consolidation of shipments. The increase in
operable vehicles, plus strict control meas-
ures, resulted in a steady increase in tonnage
transported by motor vehicle.

While supervising operations in the Zone,
OMGUS was taking part in discussions with
the other occupying powers with regard to
highway transport policies to be adopted for
Germany as a whole. These discussions have
covered a range of subjects from uniform
budget headings to the establishment of a
central German agency to supervise highway
transport.

Restoration of highways has been less suc-
cessful than was rehabilitation of highway
transport. On VE-day the highways in Ger-
many were in fair condition. The most se-
vere war damage occurred in the destruction
of bridges but many of the destroyed bridges

were replaced with temporary structures or
detours. Road surfaces suffered’ little dam-
age as a result of hostilities, but the effect of
inadequate maintenance during 1944 and
1945 was beginning to show.

DETERIORATION OF ROAD NET

Restoration of destroyed bridges. has pro-
gressed at a good pace. However, the road
surfaces of the highway net have deteriorated
rapidly. The sole reason is the critical short-
age of materials, in particular tar and
asphalt. The indigenous production in the
US Zone is negligible and imports from other
zones have been far short of the 50,000 to
75,000-ton annual requirement for the US
Zone. As a result German authorities have
been unable to perform adequate highway
maintenance.

The long-range MG plan contemplates one
additional step to establish a “level of econ-
omy” for highways and highway transport.
That level of economy must be consistent
with the general level of economy for Ger-
many. Once it is adopted it will prescribe
the maximum level to which highway trans-
port may build and will free the Germans
to accelerate their activities toward that goal.

Corrigendum

In “The Navy’s Job in Occupation” in
issue No. 55 of 19 August 1946, part of one
paragraph was omitted from the published
article. The next-to-last paragraph, as orig-
inally written, should have read:

Besides their main force in the Enclave,
the Navy maintains a small liaison group in
Frankfurt for providing a close contact
between the Commanding General USFET
and the Commander of Naval Forces in Ger-
many. Other small groups are maintained
in Paris, Le Havre and Antwerp (where
formerly large detachments had been sta-
tioned) for the purpose of handling any
Navy matters which might arise. A liaison
office is also maintained in Vienna for close
contact between the Army in Austria and the
Navy.

--- Page 10 ---
WEHRMACH

ast areas of land throughout Germany,

especially in the US Zone, were used
during the Nazi regime for war purposes.
These lands, covering a total of about
2,500,000 acres and comprising almost three
percent of all land in pre-war Germany,
were known as “Wehrmacht lands,” for
they had been converted into training
grounds, drill fields, camps, airfields and
maneuver areas for the development of Ger-
many’s war machine.

During the past year, it has been the
endeavor of the Food and Agriculture
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, to get
much of these lands, which are suitable for
agricultural purposes and not needed for
purposes of the occupation, back into pro-
ductive uses. It has been estimated that
about 60 per cent of the so-called “Wehr-
macht lands,” particularly the airports, are
tillable and suitable for production of crops.

LARGEST WEHRMACHT PROPERTIES

The largest Wehrmacht properties were
four maneuver areas in Bavaria: Grafen-
woehr, north of Amberg; Hohenfels, south
of Amberg; Hammelburg, and Wildflecken,
northeast of Bad Kissingen and extending
into Greater Hesse. Hohenfels is now in use
as an artillery range, but is also used for
farms and pastures. On days when the ar-

Peete ey

LANDS

tillery is not firing the farmers may work
their crops and graze their catile. However,
on days when the artillery is active in the
area, a large balloon is hoisted from one of
the highest hills so that the farmers can see
the warning and stay away. Wildflecken
and Hammelburg are used as training areas
for occupation troops.

PLAN FOR GRAFENWOEHR

Grafenwoehr, the largest of the Wehr-
macht lands in the US Zone with about
63,000 acres, typifies MG plans for the
former training areas. About a third of the
area is covered with woods and the re-
mainder is good farm land. In World War I,
25,000 acres of the Grafenwoehr area was
used by the German Army. The Nazis,
during their expansion program, took over
additional Jand, including small villages. All
these towns became ghost towns. Persons
who had lived there for years were forced
to desert the area and move to other places.
After World War II,. immediate efforts
were made by German farmers to put this
land under cultivation so that crops could
be harvested in the fall. Certain areas were
retained by the occupation forces while the
remainder was turned over to German
authorities. An important task at Grafen-
woehr is the locating of records of the for-
mer inhabitants and the descriptions of their

--- Page 11 ---
land.

In addition to the training areas in the
US Zone, there are’ also about 150 airfields
and landing grounds. Many of these are
being retained by the air forces, but about
90 have been released for farming.

Most of ' ‘the land on’ the training areas is
more suitable for grazing. than for. tilled
crops. because the ground is generally of
poor or medium quality.: However, the air-
fields are better ‘suited ‘to farming because
they are usually located .on. flat’ alluvial
ground where the soil is of good quality.

EXPANSION (OF ARMY HOLDINGS |

The greatest expansion of Wehrmacht
lands began in 1935 when the Reich passed
a--law -providing for the acquisition ‘of land
for the German. Army. The-methods used
in securing idesired lands were typical of
those-used. by the Nazis. After the ‘Wehr:
macht.or the. Luftwaffe decided * which
grounds it wanted; the: owner was offered
a: generous : price.’ If he: accepted, he was
paid the agreed price and provision was
made for him and his family to settle on
another farm or in a nearby city.

However, if the owner did not care to
move from his property, the Nazis used such
methods as were necessary to accomplish
their purpose. An example of such proce-
dure was in two villages on the Hammelburg
area in northern Bavaria. These villagers
did not wish to leave their comfortable homes
so the Nazis proceeded to remove the roofs
from all of the buildings and made the houses
uninhabitable. Then, after the people had
moved from the area, the sites were incor-
porated into the training grounds.

PLACING IDLE LAND IN USE

One of the first actions of MG after V-E
Day was to place all idle land in the US
Zone in productive use. MG detachments
ordered the mayors and officials of the local
areas to see that the order was carried out.
By this prompt action much of the Wehr-
macht. property was yielding produce only

a few months after the occupation began.
In‘ August 1945," MG instructions directed
that certain lands were to bp‘retained for
the use of occupation. tréops. and .that all
other land.-was to be turned over immediately
to the German authorities and - placed’ in
cultivation. .

MG Law No. 54, entitled ‘Use. of..Wehr-
macht Property,” was issued .27 August

"1945 to govern the disposal of former Wehr-

macht lands. The statute states that all for-
mer properties of the’German armed’ forces,
para-military..organizations and: individuals
or agencies. acting for them, were to be
‘turned. over to the German government of
the. Land in which they were located. The
Land government in turn was responsible
to. MG. for seeing that all such land was ‘put
to productive use. Agricultural - properties
were to be leased for short terms under
prevailing conditions of the area, and prop-
erties not. suitable. for agricultural - pur-
poses. were tobe, retained under control. of
MG until, released. .In- addition, a. detailed
description of each piece of property was
required.

" SEPARATE FUND FOR INCOME

In a directive issued last December
supplementing Law No. 54, the Land gov-
ernments were required to outline plans for
the eventual disposition of the Wehrmacht

_ properties. A further provision is that. all

income from the lands is to be retained in a
separate fund, to be used as approved or
directed by MG. MG has since specified
that these funds shall be used for the pur-
pose of strengthening democracy and pro-
moting self-government and has asked the
local German governments for suggestions
in this matter. «

The over-all policy at the present time
is to turn over all available Wehrmacht
lands to: the German authorities as.soon as
conditions permit. Plans for the future dis-
position’ of. these demilitarized installations
involve first, giving its custody to the de-
centralized Land Governments, and secondly
insisting it'be used for peaceful purposes.

--- Page 12 ---
(Above) Mary L. Larmore of the OMGUS Employee
Relations staff listens to the problem of a civilian employee.

Can I get married to my girl in
Albany, New York, by telephone?

The girls in my billet like to keep the
phonograph going while I try to read
or relax. Can’t I get a billet with girls
who have the same tastes as I have?

I have an insurance problem.....

These are a few of the varied questions
which the Employee Relations Section must
answer in the course of the work day.

Counseling done by Personnel Division ex-
perts aims to help the employee who has
individual problems pertaining to his per-
sonal well-being or to his employment.

When an OMGUS employee is perplexed
by a predicament which he cannot handle
by himself he knows he can get help through
this “trouble-shooting” agency. of the Per-
sonnel Division.

Photo by

Although employees are encouraged to
take immediate job problems to their super-
visors or divisional personnel officers, many
questions arise which need the help of trained
counseling specialists.

Employee Relations counselors can also
turn an understanding ear to certain dif-
ficulties which employees cannot discuss
with their supervisor, such as trouble with
other employees, some kinds of job com-
plaints, and unsatisfactory relationship with
the supervisor.

Recently a highly competent stenographer
complained that her supervisor not only
failed to give her any dictation, but demanded
that she go on personal shopping trips
for him.

As it would have been difficult to take her
complaint through normal channels, her case
was given to the Employee Relations Section.

PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 13 ---
The problem was solved to her:satisfaction -

by a reassignment to a division where her
shorthand skills were needed and ap-
preciated. ,

Sympathetic counselors, provided to assist
employees and thereby help the supervisors
maintain a stable, efficient working force,
are usually in possession of information and
knowledge which they can bring to bear on
the solution of the problem.

When shifts in personnel occur due to per-
sons completing their contracts, the em-
ployee relations staff often helps division
personnel officers in the difficult task of
reassigning persons within the organizational
pattern.

As others prepare to return to the States
they are given exit interviews. Through these
confidential discussions, the employee rela-
tions interviewer usually obtains a more

frank ‘and accurate picture of OMGUS_

conditions than he would ‘through other
means. They usually “let their hair. down”

and feel free to point out:-grievances and
points of friction.:

Almost all employees are sincerely helpful
and hope to aid in improving the OMGUS
organization while a few obviously take this
opportunity to “take a last crack” at some-
one with whom they have failed to get along.

ENTRANCE INTERVIEW

Another point of contact the counselors
have with OMGUS workers is the entrance
interview which is given when the employee
arrives.in the theater. - Guides, booklets and
general orientation information are provided
and the newcomer is encouraged to ask
questions and to volunteer information about
difficulties he. encountered in transit.

By these interviews data has been assem-
bled which has helped to expedite the pro-
curement and travel of new employees during
the past few weeks.

Through the entire span of births, mar-
riage and death the counselor finds oppor-
tunities to be of service.

During the past months hospital arrange-
ments have been made for expectant mothers
and some have been given preferential treat-

ment on State-bound ships or planes to enable
them to have their blessed events in their
own home towns.

In making marriage‘ arrangements the
counselor must see that the ceremony con-
forms with the laws of the native states of
the participants and that the civil laws of
Germany are observed. The usual church
ceremony with its music and flowers. are
merely the public manifestation of the work
done by a cooperative employee relations
counselor.

AIDS INJURED EMPLOYEES

‘When an employee is injured or killed in
the course of his duties, the employee re-
lations staff processes. the compensation
papers. In, cases where a death in an em-
ployee’s family back home necessitates his
immediate return to the United States, the
counsélor recommends his permanent ‘or

~ temporary release from duty and assists him

10

“in obtaining the fastest possible transport-

ation to his home. :

In OMGUS the’ employee counselor is
charged with the reponsibility of performing
the following functions:

1. Assists in interpreting management
policies and practices for employees
and in turn reflects to OMGUS officials
the reactions of OMGUS employees to
these policies and practices.

2. Assists the worker in orienting himself
to his work and to his associates.

3. Assists the employee in working out
satisfactory living and social arrange-
ments.

4, Observes attitudes and reactions of the
employee ‘which ~ prevent him from
doing his best work, and helps him to
develop better conduct’ and attitudes
on the job.

5. Identifies problems of individual em-
ployees which need special attention
and refers them to proper agencies.

6. Discovers conditions within the work
situation which may prevent the
employee from doing his best and rec-
ommends changes and improvements.

7. Helps supervisors in building cooper-

(Continued on page 26)

--- Page 14 ---
CENTRAL

he general functions of the Central Ger-

man Administrative Department for
Foreign Trade are to provide such central
powers and control and such over all coordi-
nation in matters of foreign trade as the
Allied Control Authority may assign to it in
accordance with the objectives of Military
Government and the Berlin Protocol. In the
initial stage its functions will be predomi-
nantly of an advisory character, but as close
supervision and direction by the Allied Con-
trol Authority are reduced, its executive
functions will increase. So far as possible its
activities will be limited to planning and pro-
graming while the actual execution of the pro-
gram will be left to the Land and Provincial
" governments. The department will never-
theless be responsible for execution and will
therefore have supervisory jurisdiction.

Under the German Empire before 1918,
foreign trade was limited only by tariff acts
and trade agreements negotiated by the
Foreign Office. No central Reich Ministry

11

ERMAN AGENCIES

for economic affairs existed in the empire.

The Weimar Republic established a Reich
Ministry of Economics which was respon-
sible for commercial policy but played a
secondary role in international trade agree-
ments. Although the cabinet of the Weimar
Republic had certain broad powers to amend
or establish tariff rates, changes had to be
approved by the Reichstag. Under the
constitution the Reichspraesident had wide
emergency powers subject to veto of the
Reichstag. In 1931 and 1932 these powers
were invoked to change tariff rates, to restrict
imports and to establish official control of
foreign trade.

POLICY OF NAZI REGIME

The Nazi regime built its policy upon
these emergency powers. Unorthodox trade
devices initiated under the Weimar Republic
were further developed to manipulate every
aspect of foreign trade as an instrument of

--- Page 15 ---
preparation for war. Imports were centrally
controlled as to amount and type for essen-
tial requirements; exports were chosen to
make the least drain on the economy and
were forced on the market by means of a
variety of clearing and compensation ar-
rangements. Imports control was placed in
the hands of commodity agencies known as
Reichstellen, which had the responsibility of
procurrement and power to. release foreign
exchange.

To assist exports, an export subsidy
system supported by voluntary contributions
of German enterprises was established and
an intricate foreign account system set up
for the purchase of German exports which
amounted to subsidization. By withholding
these favors from some commodities and
extending them to others, and by the con-
trolled distribution of raw materials, com-
plete control of exports in the interests of
national policy was achieved. In other words
there was complete regimentation, which
finally came to have its organization and
center in the Foreign Trade Department of
the Ministry of Economics and a network
of regional agencies.

PROPOSED FUNCTIONS

It is now proposed that the Department
shall be organized to undertake the follow-
ing activities: It is to be an information
agency on economic conditions in Germany
pertinent to exports and imports for Ger-
many as a whole and on foreign export and
sources of supply for imports. It is ‘to
advise the Allied Control Authority ..on
export-import programs for Germany as a
whole, submit suggestions . on means by
which achievement of Allied occupation ob-
jectives in the foreign field can be accelerat-
ed, and make suggestions on export-import
matters to the Land and Provincial govern-
ments in spheres reserved to their executive
authority. It will have operating functions
to maximize’ exports; screen exports and. im-
ports; establish licensing, procedural and
accounting systems; arrange collection,
storage, transportation and distribution, and

12

maintain liaison with other central depart-
ments in their respective fields.

Approval of export and import programs,
finalizing of contracts, and receipt and
disbursement of foreign exchange are re-
served to the Allied Control Authority. The
Laender are changed with supervision and
enforcement of export-import regulations

-. as applied to individual firms, the purchase

of exports and sale of imports to individual
firms for marks, and the issuance of licenses.
The Laender may delegate their powers and
responsibilities to local authorities.

FOUR-POWER BUREAU UNDER ACA

The department is under the control of
the Allied Control Authority in ali its
activities. To facilitate this control a
Quadripartite Bureau for Foreign Tra‘e
under the Trade and Commerce Committee
should be established within the Allied
Control Authority whick would take the
place of the Import-Export Subcommittee
of the Trade and Commerce Committee and
should be charged with the full responsibi-
lity for the supervision of the German
Central Agency. The bureau should be given
definite executive powers within established
policies so that supervision of the operations
of the German Central Agency could be
efficiently carried out, and the bureau should
be authorized to coordinate directly - with
other sections of the Allied Control Authority
with respect to matters directly relating to
foreign trade, such as industry and food and
agriculture.

--The relationship between the German
Central Agency and Allied Control Council
will gradually change. During the initial
stage of organization and staffing, specific
and detailed supervision and direction by
the Allied Bureau of the Control Council
will be necessary. During a second stage
the Trade Department will have to secure
the assent of the Allied Control Council in
all major policy questions and all functions
assigned to it by the Allied Control Council will
be reviewed at regular intervals. During the
final stage, controls may be limited to a

--- Page 16 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN ADMINISTRATIVE ‘DEPARTMENT
FOREIGN TRADE’ ~

CENTRAL GERMAN ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT FOR FOREIGN TRADE

STATE SECRETARY

PLANMING AND | OPERATIONAL ANO PERSONNEL AND
RESEARCH DIVISION CONTROL DIVISION LIAISON DIVISION
RESEARCH AND | [ PROGRAMING IMPORTS, EXPORTS ACCOUNTING | [ FIELD OFFICES] [FINANCE TRANSPQRTATION| | INDUSTRY
ANALYSIS SECTION] | __ SECTION SECTION SECTION SECTION SECTION SECTION SECTION SECTION
LGERMAN ECONOMICS | EXPORT Feestunie tetas LS eeaiee is Ne oaeTinal LLIAISON LIAISON. wrt LLIAISON WITH LLIAISON WITH
Ri INANCE DEPT. TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY DEPT
ee MARKETS | | 2.MPORTS (IMPORTS EXPORTS 2. EXPORT FOREIGN ExcHan | | DEPARTMENT
2.EXPEDITING 2. EXPEDITING ACCOUNTING CHANGE
4.TRADE ANALYSIS B.ALLOGATION OF DFRONTIER
BULK IMPORTS CONTROL
broad review of policy matters. It is State Secretary there will be three Divi-

assumed that the authority to authorizé
contracts, to review prices, and to review
licensing will not be assigned for some
time to the Central German Depart-
ment. Meanwhile the Allied Export-Import
Bureau would perform them. Routine
matters which fall within the frame of
delegated powers will be reported to the
Allied Bureau at certain stated intervals.
The Allied Bureau will, in turn, decide most
other issues brought to it by the German
Central Agency. Only matters of highest
policy nature will be referred by the Allied
Bureau to the Control Council through the
Coordinating Committee for specific decision.

HEADED BY STATE SECRETARY

The German Central Administrative De-
partment for Export and Import will be
headed by a State Secretary who will be
responsible to the Allied Control Authority
and participate in the Council of State
Secretaries, if ‘such be permitted. He will
be responsible for the activities of his De-
partment, and activities of the Laender and
Provincial governments over which he may
be granted executive authority. Under the

13

sions: Planning and Research Division,
which would assume the informational and
advisory functions; Operational and Control
Division, which would undertake the
operational functions, and Personnel and
Liaison Division, charged with internal ad-
ministrative matters and general liaison
with the Allied Control Authority and the
German authorities. It is expected that the
divisions would be subdivided according to
groups of countries and industries, but this
organization of it would be left to the re-
commendation or decision of the German
authorities. In the field of foreign trade,
at least for the present occupational period
until Germany becomes self-supporting, a
considerable degree of centralization of
control is necessary and desirable.

While matiers of policy should be taken
up with the Land ministers of economics
and their counterparts in the provinces, for
technical routine matters the Export-Import
Sections of the Land governments should be
made the executive organs of the German
Central Administrative Department for Ex-
port and Imports. They should carry ‘out
their functions under instructions from the

(Continued on page 15)

--- Page 17 ---
YEAR AFTER VICTORY

America Desires Establishment of Just and Lasting Peace;

Looks to Paris Conference for Realization of that Aim

he United States marked Victory Day,

as proclaimed by President Truman for
14 August, not with the dancing in the
streets of year ago but by working as usual
in office and shops and kitchens. Rejoicing
of V-J Day has given way before a reali-
zation of the size of the task ahead and a
dedication to that task — a dedication often
shaped in the words of Abraham Lincoln:
“That we here highly resolve that these
dead shall not have died in vain.”

The concrete, immediate task seems to the
man in the street to center in the hall in
Paris where representatives of Allied nations
sweat out preliminaries for writing the
peace. The American citizen draws encour-
agement from the fact that, for the first
time in the history of such conferences, a full
blaze of publicity is on the peace negotia-
tions. The policy of “open covenants openly
arrived at” carries with it assurance that
the men at the conference tables will always
keep their ears tuned to the force of world
opinion.

MANDATE TO TREATY-MAKERS

The man in the street feels he has given a
definite mandate to his Paris representatives
to work for a real and lasting peace, not
just an interlude between wars. This man-
date has been expressed clearly in public
opinion polls, in interest in a world or-
ganization, in concern for small nations.
A New York Times editorial expressed part
of this thus:

“We are weary of wars and the moral
obligation to intervene in wars. Our whole
foreign policy is based on a will to avoid
them, and if that could be assured without
distant outposts, the average American would
be delighted to abandon them and come

14

home.”.

In the first relief of victory it was this
will to go home which was strong; men and
women in the armed forces wanted to get back
to their jobs, back to school, back to their
own families. The will to get back to the
climate of peace showed at first in pressure
for release of wartime controls, in rapid
dismantling of our great Army and Navy,
in the rush to produce the goods of every
day life.

PRICE OF LASTING PEACE

. Now the American citizen knows peace
must be bought by understanding and work
and patience as much as it had to be bought
by battles; knows that the task of rebuilding
a shattered world is as great as that of
turning back a destructive force. Often
inarticulate, he has a deep sense of the in-
nate dignity of mankind and the dignity of
small nations. He wants to see a world
where this dignity can be maintained.

He did see a month ago, on the anniversary
of his.own Independence Day, the birth of
the \Philippine Republic, fulfillment of a
promise made. by his nation to a people
under its jurisdiction, a promise made in
peace and cemented in the fires of war. He
has read the words of the Premier of
Afghanistan:

“I am convinced, that America’s champion-
ship.of the small nations guarantees my
country’s security against aggression.”

He has watched the United Nations grow
from a plan and dream at Dumbarton Oaks
in Washington to reality in New York; has
seen the Charter take a shape which recognized
that dignity of man in which he believes.
Yet he knows that charters, like his own
Constitution, must be lived up to, must be

--- Page 18 ---
more than fine words on paper, must be
translated into action year after year. He
knows that this is not easy, for the path of
his own nation’s seeking of dignity for all
men has not been easy.

Conscious of his responsibilities in a world
drawn tightly together within the span of
half a century, he: feels that the President
was truly the representative of his people
when he said in his Victory Day procla-
mation:

“And I call upon people of the United

CENTRAL GERMAN AGENCIES

Berlin office. The Berlin office should also
be entitled to issue certain directives for the
composition and selection of their personnel.
Regional liaison of the department may be
useful at the main ports of entry and exit
and certain centers of collection. Detailed
proposals on the assignment of competences
should be requested from German authorities.

APPROVAL OF OFFICIALS

The State Secretary will be appointed by
the Allied Control Authority. Other top
officials would be subject to the approval
of the Export-Import Bureau. It is estimated
that the total staff initially required would
approximate 350 employees.

No present plans have been formulated
as to location of the headquarters, office
space required, or technical equipment. This
is a matter for further study. Such a study
by specialists for all central departments
together would be most productive.

The payroll of the German Central Ad-
ministrative Department for Exports and
Imports for a twelve-month period would
probably amount to approximately RM
2,000,000. Installation and operating ex-
penses for the same period are estimated to
amount to approximately RM 1,250,000.
These estimates were arrived at as follows:
The budget of the former German Ministry
of Economics (Reichswirtschaftsministerium)

15

States to observe Victory Day as a day of
solemn commemoration of the devotion of
men and women by whose efforts that cause
of justice, freedom, peace and international
good-will shall be advanced with undimmed
and unremitting efforts inspired by the
valor of our heroes of the armed forces.
“Although victorious in arms, we must
not relax our determination or diminish our
efforts for attainment of the final goal —
establishment of a just and lasting peace.”

(Continued from page 13)

for the year 1942 was studied. The functions
performed by the Division for Foreign
Trade of the Ministry, Division III, were
compared to the functions of the prospective
German Central Administrative Department
for Exports and Imports. The functions
covering foreign exchange of the Foreign
Trade Division of the former German Minis-
try of Economy and a number of minor
functions were eliminated as not pertaining
to the field of competence of the prospective
German Central Administrative Department
for Exports and Imports. Certain minor
functions such as liaison with the Allied
Control Authority and liaison with the other
German central administrative departments
provided for in the Berlin Protocol were
additionally taken into account. A general
reduction in the volume of activity by at
least one-half was allowed for.

SOURCE OF EXPENDITURES

It is recommended that the expenses of the
department be paid out of general revenues
to be made available to the central depart-
ments. It is quite true that the Department
for Foreign Trade could itself produce rev-
enue, e. g., from licenses, but it is. believed
better to include this in the revenue ac-
cruing to the Central Cashier and not to
earmark it for special use. No current assets
available to the department are known.

--- Page 19 ---
stars .
ee

--- Page 20 ---
he first shipment of ten-in-one relief
parcels from the United States under the
program sponsored by the Cooperative for
American Remittances in Europe, Inc.
(CARE), arrived recently in Berlin.

CARE has_ purchased approximately
3,000,000 surplus ten-in-one packages, each
weighing 49 pounds, of which 30 pounds is
food and the balance essential household
items, for distribution in the US and British
areas. Under its program an individual in
the United States pays the sum of $15 for
delivery of a ten-in-one ration to a relative
or friend in Germany.

(Above) Truckloads of ten-in-one rations arrive at
the warehouse in Berlin for distribution; (Opposite
page, left) Lewis M. Gable, CARE representative,
hands a ten-in-one ration to Heinz Leitz; (Opposite
page right) Leitz leaves the warehouse for his home
in Berlin; (below) Leitz with members of his family
examine the relief parcel.

Photos by Bowlds, PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 21 ---
Rhine River Commission

More than 410 miles of waterways are now
subject to the new Rhine ‘Transportation
Control Commission’s authority, which has
been established as a bipartite Anglo-
American Commission to administer and
control the flow of German traffic along the
Rhine River and three of its tributaries.
This control extends from Karlsruhe to
Duisburg on the Rhine, from Wuerzburg
along the Main to its juncture with the
Rhine, and from Heilbronn along the Neckar
to its entry into the Rhine.

The headquarters of the commission will
be at Duisburg where a Rhine transport
Zentrale staffed with German personnel and
headed by a German executive acceptable to
both powers, is located. The functions of
the Zentrale include taking a census of craft
in the joint Anglo-American pool, assessing
traffic capacity of the pool fleet receiving
traffic bids, agreeing on traffic programs,
and reporting on freight rates. Cost of the
Zentrale is borne by a minimum levy placed
by the Control Commission on all freight
carried by the combined flect.

Altough the French have been invited to
join the Commission, a tripartite body has
not yet been formed. In the absence of such
an agreement, any interim operating arrange-
ments made with the French zonal author-
ities will be made jointly by British and
US officials.

Child-Feeding Program

Sixty-five thousand German children in
Greater Hesse are receiving three meals per
week as a result of a new American relief
program. Gifts of food supplies exported
by private US Relief Agencies are providing
30,000 children in Frankfurt alone with the
emergency nutritional first-aid needed to
supplement their insufficient rations.

The program as set up in six cities of

18

Greater Hesse gives supplement:
menus to school children between the ages
of six and fourteen, most of whom are in the
sixty-four schools of the Frankfurt area.
‘The menus consist either of oatmeal, wheat
meal, or wheat by-products with one-half
liter of whole milk and sugar. It is hoped
that if more bread flour is received, it will
be possible to add hard rolls to vary diets
and also raise the nutritive value to 500
calories.

All supplies used in the Frankfurt feeding,
with the exception of a quantity of sugar
received from the Eire Red Cross, have been
donated by the Council of Relief Agencies
Licensed for Operation in Germany (CRA-
LOG), a coalition of 14 private American
relief agencies.

DP Marital Status

No law forbids the marriage of displaced
persons from United Nations, or those assim-
ilated to that status, to Germans in Ger-
many, according to an announcement by the
Prisoners of War and Displaced Persons
Division, OMGUS.

However, several United Nations have
laws forbidding the marriage of their nation-
als to Germans, and therefore the marriage,
while legal in Germany, would not be rec-
ognized by the nation of the displaced
person.

The announcement continued that recently
there have been reports that male displaced
persons, trying to find better living condi-
tions and to avoid family obligations, have
deserted their German wives and _ their
children by entering United Nations Dis-
placed Persons Assembly Centers.

Under these circumstances, if one party
of the marriage is eligible for United Nations
Displaced Persons care and _ treatment,
members of his immediate family may also
apply for assistance under the provisions of
paragraph 27, SHAEF Administrative Mem-

--- Page 22 ---
orandum No. 29, dated 16 April 1945.
It is also proper under German law to
institute legal proceedings to sue for support
from the deserting husband or father.

Four-Zone Unity Needed

Col. James R. Newman, OMG Director for
Greater. Hesse, disclosed that bi-monthly
meetings with officials of Thuringia will
start within the next three weeks in Weimar,
capital of Thuringia. The meetings, which
will be attended by MG and German econ-
omics officials, are designed to open the
way for a free interchange of goods between
the two Laender.

Colonel Newman and Dr. Karl A. Geiler,
Minister President of Greater Hesse, have
recently returned to Wiesbaden from a visit
to Thuringia’s military governor, Maj. Gen.
Kolesnitschenko, and Minister President
Rudolf Paul.

Ata dinner in Weimar, Dr. Paul declared,
“It is of the greatest importance that all four
zones of Germany be economically unified.”
The speech, Colonel Newman. disclosed, was
well received by General Kolesnitschenko.

Dr. Geiler, said, “Our trip, undertaken
with cultural as well as economic ends in
view, had a very impressive result. While
we spoke about the types of goods to be con-
sidered for exchange, one cardinal point
marked the discussions of Colonel Newman,
General Kolesnitschenko, Dr. Paul and my-
self — the urgent need for unifying all the
four zones of Germany.”

Air Mail Service

Quadripartite approval has been granted
for the establishment of one-way air mail
service from the United States and United
Kingdom to Germany. Actual inauguration
of this service is pending completion of
negotiations for transportation and other
necessary arrangements by the countries
concerned.

The last air mail shipments from the
United Kingdom arrived in Germany during
August 1939, shortly prior to the beginning

19

of hostilities. Air mail from the US continued
to reach Germany via Portugal and Spain
until late in 1941.

The one-way parcel post service for gift
relief parcels from the United States to the
US Zone which became effective on 1 June
has been extended to include the British
Zone of Germany. This service does not
apply to Berlin.

Swabian Transfer Halted

Lack of housing facilities and extensive
war damage have caused OMGUS to suspend
temporarily further transfer of Swabians
from Hungary to the US Zone. Approximately
200,000 are still waiting transfer from Hun-
gary, and 120,000 have already been moved.

MG authorities and the Hungarian Gov-
ernment are negotiating an arrangement to
assure all Swabian expellees minimum
essentials until they are resettled.. The trans-
fer of Germans from neighboring countries
is in accordance with an agreement reached
at the Potsdam conference, but at present
the US Zone is unable to maintain the stand-
ards necessary to receive and care for such
large numbers.

British Zone Activities

A supplementary ration card, equivalent
to 200 calories daily, is being furnished
during the 92nd ration period to all con-
sumers over six years of age in specified
towns of the British Zone to make up for the
lack of fresh vegetables and fruits which
are available to those living in the country
and in small country towns. The card allows
each holder for the period, bread or naehr-
mittel equivalent to 1,600 grams; fats, 140
grams; and meat, 400 grams. This will
permit the normal consumer qualifying for
the extra ration, to receive rationed food
amounting to 1,337 calories.

More than 13,500 tons of grain were
gathered during the first weeks of the cur-
rent harvest in the British Zone. This ‘was
considerably more than had been predicted.

Rudolf Blomberg, heir to a large (Wupper-
tal textile firm, was sentenced to three

--- Page 23 ---
months imprisonment at Duesseldorf for
illegally exporting approximately $40,000
worth of silk goods to Holland. Blomberg
pleaded guilty, claiming he sought to build
up credits outside Germany. The goods were
discovered in a border check of a relief
agency truck.

A home for the rehabilitation of under-
nourished children was opened at Kiel under
an arrangement by British MG, a Salvation
Army relief team and German public health
officials. Surplus food from British unit
messes will provide daily rations of 3,000
calories for each of 100 children during
four-week stays at the home.

Flour from Chestnuts

Horse-chestnuts, or buckeyes as they are
known in some parts of the United States,
are the source of hours of pleasure for many
American youths in the fall for hollowing
out into imitation pipes, or stringing into
necklaces, or simply hoarding. But to the
Germans they are considered a source of
additional food for the already meager fam-
ily larder.

With the approaching of chestnut-picking
time, two Berlin newspapers recently pub-
lished articles on the necessity of gathering
as many as possible.

The French-licensed Kurier advised
everyone to help in the next five weeks in
collecting the chestnuts, as they can supply
the Berliners with flour and fats. Recently,
the paper added, an efficient method has
been devised to debitter the chestnut.

Two or three hundred collecting offices
will be set up throughout the city, announc-
ed the Kurier, adding that as a reward for
every 100 kilos of chestnuts turned in, a
bonus of ten marks and a certificate good
for six pounds of chestnut flour will be
given.

The US-licensed Tagesspiegel said avail-
able technical facilities enable the production
of 30 kilo of flour from 100 kilos of
chestnuts. Pointing out that Berlin has more
chestnut trees than any other German city,
the paper said its 70,000 trees can supply

about 3,500 tons of chestnuts which will
serve as raw material for the manufacture
of food and medicine.

Heads MG Court

Herbert B. Gerhart, chief of the German
courts Section of the Legal Division, was
appointed presiding Judge of the Military
Government Court for Civil Actions in Stutt-
gart. The jurisdiction of this Court, establish-
ed under MG Ordinance No. 6, is limited
to civil actions in which one of the parties
is a national of the United Nations, for
damages arising out of the operation of
motor vehicles not owned by the US Gov-
ernment in the US Zone of Germany, US
Sector of Berlin and the Bremen Enclave:

Appeal to Youth

An appeal to the youth of Germany to
participate in the reconstruction of their
shattered country was made by John Hynd,
Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, at
the opening of the new Neuss Bridge over
the Rhine at Duesseldorf.

Asserting the succesful creation of a new
Germany largely depended on the youth
of Germany, Mr. Hynd said, “You who
were little more than children in 1933, who
were misled and betrayed in your youthful
enthusiasm, let your idealism be turned
towards the reconstruction of your country
and your eyes turned towards the wide
world. Not in lust for domination but in
domination in friendship and under-
standing you must take over the main part
of the reconstruction through your trade
unions, your political parties, co-operatives
and other democratic organizations.”

More food was urgently needed, continued
Mr. Hynd, as the food crisis was continuing
in vast areas of the country. From the
meagre resources of Great Britain and from
the granaries of America, Canada: and Aus-
tralia, supplies had been rushed to the
threatened areas of the world, including
Germany.

--- Page 24 ---
ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

The Bavarian Regierungsbezirk, which
was formerly known as Mainfranken, has
been redesignated Unterfranken.

A monthly school publication “Diogenes”
made its initial appearance early this month
at the University of Heidelberg. Forty-eight
pages of fine print carried news of other
German universities, art criticism, essays on
literary and political subjects and book re-
views.

A Uniform franking machine impression
for use by the German mail system throvgh-
out the US, British and Soviet Zones has
been given final quadripartite approval. A
similar impression, awaiting final quadripar-
tite action, has been selected for the French
Zone. i

PAINTINGS RETURNED TO AUSTRIA

Two Rembrandt portraits and other pic-
tures belonging to the Austrian Roth-
schild family were included with 345 other
paintings returned to Austria in the custody
of USFA. A portrait of Luther by Cranach
and “Prometheus” by Rubens were returned
to the Netherlands. Eight carloads of ar-
chives stolen by the Nazis from scientific in-
stitutes and libraries were returned to the
Soviet Union. ;

For the maintenance of telephone lines in
the US Zone, 500 repeater tubes have been
released from US Army stocks for German
civilian use.

Two thousand tons of ammunition are be-
ing moved to Allendorf for salvage of need-
ed chemicals. Forty tons of smokeless powder
from captured enemy materials returned
from France were also released for this
program.

. To allow for local variations in the amount
of available electricity, the Economic Direct-
orate of the Allied Control Authority has
agreed that rationing of electricity will
be under the jursidiction of each zone com-
mander.

Four hundred tons of clover seed and 400

21

tons of alfalfa seed have arrived from France
for next year’s crop.

The Bread ration for normal consumers
in the US Zone for the 92nd ration period
beginning 19 August was increased by about
one-third to offset decreases in fat, skim
milk and potato rations. Larger quantities
of cereals and corn are provided.

COAL ALLOCATIONS

August coal allocations for all areas will
be carried over into September. It is plan-
ned that coal allocations for occupation
troops requirements, railroads and ports, iron
and steel plants, fishing fleet operations and
sugar beet processing will be completely de-
livered. If allocations are not met, coal will
be withheld from other consumers to the
extent necessary to meet this program.

Representatives of the Inter-Allied Repa-
rations Agency have been granted permission
to inspect equipment and records of plants
in the US Zone approved by the Coordinating
Committee for reparations.

Membership in recognized trade unions in
the US Zone, exclusive of Berlin and Bre-
men, increased by 40,000 during July, to a
total of 791,000 on 1 August.

WORKS COUNCIL ELECTIONS

The first elections of works councils in
factories and offices in the US Zone took
place last week in Greater Hesse in accord-,
ance with Control Council Law No. 22. All
trade unions agreed in advance that political
party affiliations of candidates were not to
appear on the ballots, nor were political par-
ties to present their own lists.

A “Kinderfest,” sponsored by the 10th
Constabulary Regiment in Wuerttemberg-
Baden Sunday 11 August, was attended by
approximately 13,000 youth from Stuttgart
and more than 300 adults. The youth were
served 7,000 liters of milk, 30,000 doughnuts
and 6,000 candy bars, all contributed by
welfare agencies and the Constabulary unit.

--- Page 25 ---
Rte consistently strong interest in the
Nuremberg trials was increased in the
licensed newspapers in the US Zone with the
calling of new important witnesses against
the National Socialist organizations under
indictment, according to the analysis of the
press by the Office of Information Control,
OMGUS, for the week of 4—11 August.

The Frankfurter Rundschau in a lead
editorial said, “For the first time in the
modern history of mankind not only the mil-
lions of war victims must suffer, but this
time their responsible leaders, the war prov-
ocateurs, seized in the act of their injustice,
are caught in the meshes of the law. And
that is progress for the peoples as well as
for the civilization arising with the peace.
It cannot be over-estimated. For we have
no doubt that the Goerings, Schachts and
whoever else may be named, would have
considered their murderous policy and war
leadership more carefully if they had had
their own end before their eyes.”

The Frankenpost (Hof), in an editorial
entitled “The Right of the Subordinate,”
declared, “Again the guilty try to hide be-
hind ‘Orders from Above’. . . The justifica-
tion of the Nuremberg Trials . . . is that it
is once and for all establishing the right of the
subordinate to oppose and to strike against
injustice even when commanded, against
forced cooperation in sin and disgrace.”

* * *

The Peace Conference in Paris was the
dominant theme in the press in the US Zone
during the week. News coverage was thor-
ough and well balanced, and the descrip-
tions of disagreements in conference discus-
sions were mostly confined to the matter-
of-fact DANA account.

Typical of the majority of editorial com-

ment was the lead article in the Badische
Neueste Nachrichten (Karlsruhe). It said in
part: “The Conference will bring the world,
however its results turn out in detail, a
little further along the road to peace. But
that a real pacification of Europe will be
atiained must be doubted, since the peace
cannot rest alone on purely political founda-
tions but must be based on economic
grounds. And to assure this latter goal will
not be possible so long as the German
problem remains unsolved. The situation
would be clear and simple, if one of the
points of the Paris agenda were ‘Peace
Treaty with Germany.’ Germany is the in-
visible guest at the conference.”

* * *

In a discussion of the draft of the press
law in the US Zone, the Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Munich) said, “The new press law . . . will
undoubtedly afford much occasion for dis-
cussion. Its final form will shape the fate of
the future press and is a necessity for the
formation of our democratic state. The press
should not and does not wish to be un-
confined, but it must also not be confined in
its duty to find the truth and be an indepen-
dent and incorruptible mirror of the times.”

The speech of the Deputy Military Gov-
ernor to the 11th Laenderrat conference in
Stuttgart was highlighted in the press
throughout the Zone, His statements on
economic unity and the amnesty for youth
were stressed. A majority of the newspapers
played up the comment on the role of the
free press, the calling by the Deputy Military
Governor of a press conference “as usual.”

* * *

The press campaign against rumor-mongers
intensified, and was usually tied to the food

--- Page 26 ---
question and American imports. A lengthy
satirical article in the Frankenpost said in
part: “To get people to spread rumors is as
difficult as persuading a monkey to accept
a banana — naimely, not at all... Every
rumor spreads with the speed of wind. By
its very speed you can recognize a rumor as
such... Customers of Fact do not multiply
at all... The masses boycott the truth
instinctively. They feel on the other hand a
constant vague longing for nonsense. The
hot passion of the German for sloppy thinking
made Hitlerism possible. Today, it fosters
the rumor-factories.”

Berlin Food Supply

In its own report, the US licensed Tages-
spiegel in Berlin quoted foodstuff figures
released by the Food and Agriculture Section,
OMGBD, citing the fact that 138,663 tons
of potatoes have been imported into Berlin,
two-thirds of it from the United States. The
report also observed that the United States
has sent 3,066 tons of canned vegetables,
849 tons of fruit juices and 371 tons of can-
ned and dried fruits from America.

In accordance with recent Allied Komman-
datura decision, plans are now being made
to import fresh vegetables directly from the
American Zone to Berlin, “despite the fact
that before the war only one-half of one per-
cent of Berlin’s vegetables came from the
US Zone,” continued the report.

In concluding the dispatch cited Magistrat
figures which point out that about 50 percent
of the fresh vegetables for Berlin in 1938
came from areas now occupied by the Soviet,
22 percent from Holstein, three percent from
the Rhineland in the British Zone, and
25 percent from foreign nations.

* * *

The Telegraf, published in the British
Sector of Berlin, printed articles which point-
ed up the British food contributions to the
city and compared them to the recent Soviet
vegetable figures in the Soviet-sponsored
press.

The Telegraf first observed that it has re-
cently been revealed that the Soviet Zone and

Sector have produced for distribution all
over Berlin 20,586 tons of vegetables in 1946. -
The paper then observed that British author-
ities have also imported and distributed va-
rious kinds of food all over the city.

“Tt is interesting to compare the efforts of
both groups in reference to calories,” declar-
ed the Telegraf, thereupon pointing out that
the supplies from the Soviets amounted to
3,088 million calories, while the British sup-
plies amounted to 4,601 million calories.

“This shows that the supplies of the Brit-
ish authorities exceed those of the Soviets by
1,513 million calories,” declared the paper.
“One must also remember that a great part
of these supplies come from England and
have been transported to Germany over hun-
dreds of kilometres.”

Totalitarian Issue

Referring to a recent Tagesspiegel charge
that the Berlin Magistrat is totalitarian, the
Neues Deutschland, organ of the Social Unity
Party, declared the Magistrat has been re-
sponsible for the achievements of the city
since the collapse.

The Neues Deutschland said the Magistrat’s
annual report will be annouced shortly with
an explanation for the alleged over-abun-
dance of Magistrat power and personnel. The
paper also said all former Reich and state
authorities had to be taken over by the Ma-
gistrat, and, in reality, the administrative
apparatus for the city is smaller than
formerly.

In attempting to disprove the Tagesspiegel
assertions that work is done behind closed
doors and people are presented with com-
pleted deeds, the paper stated that in various
Berlin districts there are so called prelim-
inary district assemblies in which the polit-
ical parties and the population are given the
chance to check the community policy of their
district. In other districts the mayor holds
open office hours when people may contact
him, while in some districts suggestion boxes
are available. The paper further pointed out
that every day the Magistrat supplies the
press with information.

--- Page 27 ---
AS APPEAL FOR CHINA COMPROMISE

Us newspaper pilin discussing the
effects of a joint statement by Gen-
eral Marshall and US Ambassador to China
John Leighten Stuart, generally agreed the
purpose of the statement. was to present
stark facts concerning the situtation in
China in the hope of evoking positive action
by Chinese negotiators toward a settlement
of the grave problem. They expressed the
belief that General Marshall will continue
the task given him by the President to help
bring about a unified and strong China.

The New York Times said: “No bleaker
prospect for China could be outlined than
that presented by the Marshall-Stuart joint
statement that they have found it impossible
to bring about a peaceful settlement in the
civil war there. That half a billion people
should be plunged into a fratricidal con-
flict against their will and at the cost of
complete economic collapse because the
leaders of two opposing forces refuse to
accept a common formula for local govern-
ment and military merger must seem utterly
fantastic to men of good will everywhere . . .

“Perhaps peace is impossible in that
strife-torn nation, martyred now for almost
nine years... but there may still be hope
that the sheer pessimism of the American
negotiators and the stark realities they
foresee will now evoke sufficient respon-
sibility in Chinese party leadership to avoid
final catastrophe. Perhaps the mournful
voice of the Chinese people, yearning pas-
sionately for peace, may somehow yet
penetrate the stubborn walls of Yenan and
Nanking.”

The New York Herald Tribune said: “Al-
though Marshall and Stuart declare that

24

settlement of China’s epeeaa civil, war
seems impossible, they do not. indicate that
they intend to discontinue their efforts as
mediators. It thus appears that their use of
the word ‘impossible’ was designed to bring
pressure» on rival-Chinese negotiators by
stressing the imminence of disaster. But it
should not be thought that god overstated
the gravity of the situation .

“As long as any possibility of es re-
mains, of course, the United States should
do everything possible to try to prevent a
catastrophe .... Liberals in the Kuomintang
party, increasingly distrustful. of Commu-
nists.... are no longer such. firm advocates
of peace as they were earlier. They have
been driven toward the right by excesses
of the Communists, just as many liberals
outside the party have been driven toward
the left by excesses of the reactionaries.”

The Philadelphia Inquirer’s editorial said:
“Half a billion people in China, as declared
in the Marshall-Stuart manifest to be prac-
tically unanimous in their desire for peace,
face only national destruction and chaos if
the conflict fully engulfs them. The United
States cannot afford to have civil war in
China. Peace-seeking nations of the world
cannot afford it....

“The seeming hopelessness of the Marshall-
Stuart declaration certainly demands imme-
diate and utmost efforts of Mr. Truman
himself io retrieve the situation and, failing
that, a call upon the United Nations to deal
with a conflagration that gravely imperils
world peace.”

The Washington Post: “The despair of
uniting China which runs through the Mar-
shall-Stuart statement may be to a certain

--- Page 28 ---
extent simulated. Maybe the signatories
were anxious to put before China the gravity
of the situation in hope of galvanizing
support for their mediatory efforts... The
job of working through the Nanking gov-
ernment for unification is a Russian as well
as American responsibility.

“The commitment is contained in the Sino-
Soviet pact of August, 1945; it pledges
Moscow to render China moral support and
assistance with military equipment and other
material resources, this support and
assistance to be given fully to the national
government as the central government of
China.

“Perhaps conditions have changed since
the pact was signed. Very well. Let Mos-
cow and Washington get together on the
new arrangement. Better still, let Moscow
be asked to join with this government in a
demand upon Chiang Kai-Shek to take new
steps in prevention of conflict.... A joint
demarche on these matters might yet hold
China back from the brink of official

”

war...

Paris Conference

Renewed emphasis was placed by the
American press on the efforts of the small
nations at the Paris Peace Conference to
break the Big Four voting power. Amer-
icans, though sympathetic with Byrnes’
reasons for initially supporting the two-
thirds: rule, traditionally favor the underdog
and like the spunk shown by Evatt, Spaak,
and others in opposing Big Power domi-
nation.

Editorials pictured the basic issue as the
need for marshalling “world opinion” or
“moral force” or the “conscience of man-
kind,” as a factor mitigating the naked play
of power. However, some observers defend
the two-thirds rule on “realistic” grounds
as a virtual necessity in view of the division
of interests represented at Paris. Max
Lerner of the Mutual Broadcasting System
discounts the issue and. would have the
small powers take their “militant stand” on
more important questions of economic ‘se-

curity, internal political freedom in all
countries and international control of: the
atom bomb.

Peace is a Goal

The Philadelphia Inquirer commented,
“Perhaps. we ‘were premature in celebrating
the advent (of peace) a year ago. Perhaps
what we had then was not the substance of
peace, but only a fragile promise of it, still
to be attained.

“A disillusioned world is only beginning
to learn — the hard way — that peace is
not made permanent by the defeat of one
enemy, or by the termination of one war,
and it must be struggled for even more ar-
duously.”

Similarly The New York Herald Tribune
said: “For all the disillusion brought by the
first year since guns and bombs fell silent,
there have been some solid and hopeful
achievements as well. Although the physical
and moral ravages of this struggle were
vastly greater than those of the first world
war, there has been less chaos and confusion
in the effort to meet them. In all western and
northern Europe and in the United States
liberal democracy has shown much deeper,
stronger vitality than could reasonably have
been expected; in vast areas under Russian
domination there has been an order. and re-
constructive energy which.... supply a
better basis for new settlements....

“Ultimate solutions will differ from the
dreams of the fighting years; they will be
less perfect, more difficult than men had
hoped... but a year after war’s end there
is no reason to believe that solutions are un-
attainable; still less to doubt the value of
the immense sacrifice.”

UNRRA Needs Successor

Representative. US newspaper editorials
commenting upon the reaffirmation at. the
Geneva meeting of the UNRRA council that
UNRRA will go out of existence in Europe
at the end of .this year and in China on
31 March 1947, generally concluded. that

--- Page 29 ---
UNRRA’s unfinished work must ‘be taken
over’ by agencies of United Nations. Re-
viewing UNRRA’s past accomplishments
and shortcomings, the editorials said the
work done by that agency was a vital one
and, in the main, performed creditably,,
The New York Sun said: “(UNRRA)
undertook a task that no organization could
hope to perform perfectly under the best con-
ditions, and operated in a period of much
international friction. Cost in terms of dollars
can never provide a fair measurement of its
humanitarian efforts and accomplishments.”

Pittsburg Post-Gazette: “While UNRRA
has its faults, it also has its virtues. It has
been estimated that its supplies have saved
the lives of millions of people in Yugoslavia,
Czechoslovakia, Greece, Poland and China.
Nor is the need for relief over. People -of
some invaded countries, regardless of gov-
ernmental abuse, will still need help.

“It may be that countries still in need: will
be asked to pay for relief. But whether or

not they pay, provision must be. made within
the next four. months to carry on the
functions of UNRRA to a. limitéd extent.
It seems a logical task for agencies of United
Nations.”

St. Louis Globe-Democrat: “UNRRA ‘was
never intended to be a permanent agency.

Its functions was to take over responsibility

for immediate relief of war suffers after the
war until permanent international agencies
could be organized. This fact was recognized
by: representatives of the United States,
Britain and Canada...

“Instead of continuing UNRRA or or-
ganizing a new agency, the three countries,
which have furnished 93 percent of
UNRRA’s funds, have proposed that a
world bank take over UNNRA’s rehabili-
tation functions; that health. activities be
assumed by the new world health organi-
zation; that an. international refuge agency
be created, and that relief be placed on
national basis.” :

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS (Continued from page 10)

ative, harmonious and understanding
relationships with their employees.
Employee relations counselors stress pre-
ventive measures as much as possible. Alert
and discerning counselors gradually arrive
at an understanding of work conditions and
living conditions which serve as thé basis for
\formulating procedures designed to prevent
little grievances from becoming big problems.

‘When employees need an outlet for per-
sonal ‘tensions, job grievances’ and. other
problems of a highly confidential nature,
the OMGUS employee relations staff can. be
relied upon to keep the matter in strictest
confidence.

This “trouble-shooting” section of the per-
sonnel Division was recently set up by the
Commanding General of OMGUS, and its
activities in Berlin have been broadened to
provide every type of labor relations and
personnel ‘counsel.

It is the hope of Col. J. T. Duke, Chief of
Personnel, to: have competent employee

relations: personnel available to OMGUS
employees throughout the entire US Zone
of Occupation. Where it is not feasible to
have a full-time counselor because of small
isolated MG units, a qualified person will be
designated to provide employee relations
services on a part-time basis.

“We are gradually knocking off the re-
maining rough edges in our OMGUS organ-
ization,” Colonel Duke said, ‘and we believe
that we are making working conditions and
living. conditions more satisfactory for our
employees every day.”

What about the fellow who wanted ‘to
marry that girl in Albany, New York, by
telephone?

It can’t be done. Not in New York. But
the employee relations counselor found a
way out. Proxy marriages are permitted in
Florida. So all the girl in Albany will have
to.do now to marry-her fiance in Berlin is
take a trip to Miami. Relatively simple,
isn’t it, when you know the answer? ~

--- Page 30 ---


--- Page 31 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Germany, US ‘ é Berlin vere Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,

Asst Deputy Mil Governor

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN
Office of Mil Gov for

Wiirttemberg-Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154)
Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford
Stuttgart Area
*SK Stuttgart : Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Boblingen i Capt M P Ernst
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko, Jr
*LK Ludwigsburg : Ludwigsburg Maj R A Morgen
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Capt R Forrest
*LK Leonberg ew Leonberg : Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Niirtingen Capt P F Sullivan
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Ist Lt U S Aiello
: Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg , Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen Ist Lt C H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Capt K R Plessner
4 Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj RH Stimson
*LK Bruchsal \ Bruchsal Ist Lt L. L. Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim : Crajlsheim 1st Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK Kuenzelsau ; Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt B V Bloom
*LK Oehringen " Oehringen 1st Lt M Korsun

* Liaison and Security

28

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area rel ;
*LK Ulm Ulm Lt Col A G Spitz
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Maj R Lascoe
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt R.N Tharp

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hiinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

“LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hof, geismar
Wolfhagenn

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen

29

Col J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Fairloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed

Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt G E Schmoeker
Maj R A Gish

Lt Col J C Rose
Capt R O Didlo
Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

“MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION:

.: | DIRECTOR, OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
+*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

Co A

*SK/LK Wurzbur,
*SK/LK Aschaffenburs,
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen

*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lobr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
- Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)
Munich :

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzbur;
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen *
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen |
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfelc
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe:
CaptJ T Hughes
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt Willard Seale
Maj Dunn 5S

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt Col M C Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R W Kernidi
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Capt A G Grodzinski
Capt G E Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt W_W James
Capt K L Ellis G
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt C Boden

Capt E E Kelly
Capt T F Griffin
Ist Lt L K Owens
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt M B Jaeger
Capt I A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B

SK/LK Nurnberg
*SK/LK Bamberg
*SK/LK Bayreuth
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Neustadt-Coburg
*LK Kronach

*SK/LK Hof

*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Furth

*LK Lichtenfels

*LK Ebermannstadt

*LK Hochsfadt a. d. Aisch
*SK/LK Kulmbach

*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Neustadt
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt a.'d. Aisch
ee
‘egnitz
Munchberg

30

Col E M Haight

Lt Col A T Callicot
Lt Col J R Case

Lt Col S M Guild
Lt Col F Robie
Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund
Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R T Boyer
Capt C E Palmer
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt M G Stamatis
Maj R C Anderson

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION.

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forhheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl -:
*LK Eichstatt

*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hipolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rehau
‘Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch -
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Capt L De Ford
Maj T Cleary
Maj H W Zurn
Capt W W Russel
Capt R J Towle
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Lt Col J C Barnet
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt J J Carr
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
ILt L W Dilzard

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und ‘Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen
*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensbur;
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a. d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Freyun,
Kemnat!
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Rodin;
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting. .
Mainbur,
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

31

Col Hastings
Capt J W Boffert
Maj Ganer

Maj H L Snapp
Capt Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek
Capt G L Miller
Ist Lt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Crowley
Maj Carlson

Capt L R Mariels
Capt D S Field
Capt R O Woodward
Maj H A Hardt
Capt M Glossip

Capt R M McWhorter
Lt Col C McNackin
Capt T O Rose

1st Lt N Ugland

Lt Col G'H Foster
Lt Col Nichols

Maj H P Clark
Capt M J Jarvis
Maj D L O’Roark
Maj Fhakel Ford
Maj S Mulholland
Maj Corbin

Capt F Traynham
Maj L P Rhodes
Maj Hichcock

Maj E Fichter

Ist Lt R Daniel

Maj T R Coykendall
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj Robertson

1st Lt G L Thomas
Maj J J Maher

Lt Col J R Hector
Lt P A Nesbit

Maj R E Levy

Maj J F Re

Ist Lt K J Miller

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY. GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co E Munich Lt Col R J Philpott
*SK/LK Munich Munich Lt Col E Keller
*SK/LK Freising Freising Lt Col H E Blakeley
*LK Miesbach Miesbach Capt W A Lovett
*LK Traunstein Traunstein Capt V L Thom
*LK Altoetting Altoetting Capt C A Larimer
*SK/LK Rosenheim Rosenheim Capt R H Necel
*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen Partenkirchen Maj M W Nitz
*SK/LK Ingolstadt Ingolstadt Lt Col J H Kelly
*LK Erding Erding Maj C A Brown
*LK Laufen Laufen Capt N W Borring
*LK Muhldorf Muhldorf Capt W M Forys
*LK Wasserburg Wasserburg Capt D Root
*LK Toelz Bad Toelz Capt W_N Dickerson
*LK Aibling Bad Aiblin; Maj E J H Newmeyer
*LK Fuerstenfeldbruck Fuerstenfeldbruck 1st Lt C C Boatwright
*LK Landsberg Landsberg Maj C A Rein
*LK Pfaffenhofen Pfaffenhofen Capt O M Cole
*LK Starnberg Starnberg Maj C E Carlsen
*LK Weilheim Weilheim Capt M J Groves
*LK Wolfratshausen Wolfratshausen Maj P L Steers Jr
*LK Berchtesgaden Berchtesgaden Maj M Mawrence
*LK Ebersberg Ebersberg Capt E J Pennetto
*LK Aichach Aichach Maj L R Day
*LK Schrobenhausen Schrobenhausen Capt H J Bierman
*LK Dachau Dachau Maj A G Snow
*LK Schongau Schongau Capt C S Garber

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Donauwirth
*LK Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauworth
Gunzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO. 755)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 151)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

32

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea

Maj R A Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Ist Lt E A Eaton
1st Lt H V Worthington
Ist Lt M W Tlepfer
Capt L A Proger
Capt W F Bradley
Capt C L Hopkins
Capt J N Urtes
Capt F W Guzak
Capt J O Renalds
Maj A E Elliot

Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs