--- Page 2 ---
(Cet

-
mts

9v6LUIaWAld3S 91 / 6S YIGWNN INSWN&3AO9 AUVLITIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,
OBER &
LAHNKRE!IS
oe FRIEOBERG
aon sweanboeges
cz,

OFFENBACH
GROSS~
GERAU!
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD’
BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH
IAUBERBISCH -
OFSHEIM
|EIDELBERG)
BRUCHSAC
HEILBRONN
‘a BACKNANK
PEORZHEIM

ROTEN BURG

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NFO MANION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Theater Courier Service.

Classification of Trades and Crafts Positions
Flying Proficiency for Rated Air. Corps Personnel Assigned to Non-
Flying Organizations :

Tours and Services of the American Express Company, Inc. .
Overcrowding of Transient Billets in the Third US Army Area .
Illegal Arrests, as defined by Allied Control Authority .

Procurement of Coal and Wood for United Nations Displaced Persons
and Civilian Internees

Report of Military Personnel Classification Procedures .

Revision of MGR, Title 6, Public Health, to Conform to Policy .
CWS Supplies for Occupation Forces

Procedure for Supply of UNRRA from Army Supply Sources
Detailing of Officers to Judge Advocate General's Department
Qualifications, Investigations and Clearance of Persons Having Access
to Classified Cryptographic Aids or Devices

Intelligence Reporting .

Decentralization of Responsibility to German Authorities Concerning
Displaced Persons and Refugees

Disposition of Records

Civil Service Status of German Civilian Employees of US Military
Government . 5.000000

AG 311.4 AGM-AGO
22 July 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGE
9 August 1946, USFET

AG 201.63 GAP-AGB
16 August 1946, USFET

AG 531 SSP-AGO
19 August 1946, USFET

AG 624 GAP-AGO
19 August 1946, USFET

AG 250.3 GEC-AGO
22 August 1946, USFET

AG 463.3 GEC-AGO
28 August 1946, USFET

AG 220.01 AGJ
28 August 1946, USFET

AG 010.601 (IA)

28 August 1946, OMGUS

Circular Nr. 221
28 August 1946, USFET

AG 401 GDS-AGO
29 August 1946, USFET

AG 210.6 GAP-AGO
31 August 1946, USFET

AG 33.3 GBI-AGO
30 August 1946, USFET

AG 319.1 (Dl)
5 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 383.7 (PW)
9 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 313.6 AG
9 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.12 (CAD)
9 Sept 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

’ FREEDOM OF RELIGION — One of the
fundementals of democracy was exemplified
by the recent consecration of the first Jewish
synagogue to be erected in Heidelberg. The
picture on this week's cover shows @ repre-
sentative of the city of Heidelberg ‘delivering
2 speech of welcome which was part of the

“* “consecration ceremonies.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

The full text of Secretary of State Byrnes’s
address at Stuttgart 6 September is published
in this issue. It is the text approved by the
Office of the US Political Adviser, OMGUS.
The Concordance permits quick reference to
the numbered paragraphs.

The Station List, which previous had been
published weekly in the Weekly Information
Bulletin, will in the future appear only in the
first issue of each month.

The need for a central department for
Finance is outlined in Central German
Agencies: Part 6. This is the sixth in a
series of eight articles taken trom the OMGUS
report of the same title. The report is the
first concrete blueprint for central German
agencies as outlined in the Potsdam Agreement.

PAGE

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS 2
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

We Want a Lasting Peace

Principles of Bizonal Unity

DANA 9

Central German Agencies: Part 6 11

Reconstructioh P 16
GENERAL 18 -
GERMAN REACTIONS 21
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT 23

THIS WEEK.

--- Page 7 ---
WE WANT A

LASTING. PEACE

Secretary of State Byrnes Makes a Clear Statement of Policy,

Progress and Problems in Germany in his Address at Stuttgart

i have come to Germany to learn at first

hand the problems involved in the recon-
struction of Germany and to discuss with our
representatives the views of the United
States Government as to some of the prob-
lems confronting us.

We in the United States have given con-
siderable time and attention to these problems
hecause upon their proper solution will
depend not only the future well-being of
Germa but also the future well-being of
Europe.

We have learned whether we like it or not

that we 1 in one world from which we

cannot isolate ourselves. We have learned
that peace and well-being are indivisible and
that our peace and well-being cannot be
purchased at the price of the peace or well-
being of any other country.

I hope that the German people will never
again make the mistake of ' believing that
because ‘the American people are peace-
loving, they will sit back hoping for peace if
any nation uses force or the threat of force
to acquire dominion over other people and
other governments.

In 1917 the United States. w
the first world war. After that war we

--- Page 8 ---
dto: join the Le
thought we could stay out of Europe’s, wars
and we.lost interest in the affairs of Europe.
That did.not keep us from being forced into
the second world war.

We will not again make that mistake. We
intend to continue our interest in the affairs
of Europe:and of the world. We have helped
to organize the United: Natio: We believe
it will stop aggressor nations from starting
wa. Because we believe it, we intend to
support the .United: Nations organization
with all the power and resources we possess.

The American» people: want peace. They
have long since ceased’to talk ofa hard or a
soft peace for Germany. This never. has been
the real issue. What we want is a lasting
peace. We will oppose harsh and vengeful
measures which obstruct an effective peace.
We will oppose soft measures which invite

the breaking of the peace.

In agreeing at- Potsdam that Germany
should be disarmed and demilitarized and
in proposing that the four major’ powers
should by treaty jointly undertake to see
that Germany is kept disarmed and demili-
tarized for a generation, the United States
was not unmindful of the responsibility
resting upon it and its major allies to main-
tain and enforce peace under law.

Freedom. from ‘militarism: will give the
German people the opportunity, if they will

but seize it, to apply their at energies and

abilities to the works of peac
them the opportunit
worthy of the-respect and friendship. of

Tt will give
to show themselves

and in time to take an
of the

peace-loving natio
honorable place among the membe
United Nations.

It is not in the interest of the German

(Left) Mr. Byrnes delivering his historic speech. Seated behind the Secretary
of State are, left to right, Ambassador Robert Murphy, Senator Arthur Vanden-
berg and Senator Tom Connally. (Below) The Ministers-President of the

three Laender of the US Zone greet Mr: Byrnes ‘on his arrival in Stuttgart. Photos by DANA

--- Page 9 ---
10

11

12

18

14

15

people or in the interest of world peace that
Germany should become a pawn or partner
in a military struggle for power between the
East and the West.

Twice in our generation German militarism
and Nazism have devastated the lands of
Germany’s neighbors. It is a fair and just
that Germany should do her part to repair
that devastation. Most of the victims of Nazi
aggression before the war were less well off
than Germany. They should not be expected
by Germany to bear, unaided, the major costs
of Nazi aggression.

UNITED STATES POSITION

The United States, therefore, is prepared
to catry out fully the principles outlined in
the Potsdam Agreement on demilitarization
and reparations. However, there should be
changes in the levels of industry agreed by
the Allied Control Commission. if Germany
is not to be administered as an economic unit
as the Potsdam Agreement contemplates and
requires,

The basis of the Potsdam Agreement was
that, as part of a combined program of de-

“militarization ‘and reparations, Germany’s

war potential should be reduced by elim-
ination and removal of her war industries
and the reduction and removal of heavy
industrial plants. It was contemplated this
should be done to the point that Germany
would be left with levels of industry capable
of maintaining in Germany average Euro-
pean living standards without assistance
from other countries.

The plants so to be removed were to be
delivered as reparations to the Allies. The
plants to be removed from the Soviet Zone
would go to the Soviet Union and Poland
and the plants to be removed from the
western zones would’ go in part to the Soviet
Union but in the main to the western Allies.
Provision was also made for the distribution
of Gerniany’s foreign assets among the Allies.

After considerable discussion, the Allies
agreed upon levels to which the principal
German “industriés should be reduced to
catry out thé Potsdam ‘Agreement. These

levels were agreed upon on the assumption
that the indigenous resources of Germany
were to be available for distribution on an
equitable basis for all Germans in Germany
and that products not necessary for use in
Germany would be available for export in
order to pay for necessary imports.

In fixing the levels of industry no allow-
ance was made for reparations from current
production. Reparations from current pro-

. duction would be wholly incompatible with

the levels of industry now established under
the Potsdam Agreement.

Obviously, higher levels of industry would
have had to be fixed if reparations from
current production were contemplated. The
levels of industry fixed are only sufficient
to enable the German people to become self-
supporting and to maintain living standards
approximating the average European living
conditions.

That principle involves serious hardships
for the German people, but it only requires
them to share the hardships which Nazi
aggression imposed on the average European.

PROGRESS NOT DENIED TO’ GERMANS

The German people were not denied, how-
ever, the possibility of improving their lot
by hard work over the years. Industrial
growth and progress were not denied them.
Being obliged to start again like the people
of other devastated countries with a peace:
time economy not able to provide them more
than the average European standard, the
German people were not to be denied the
right to use such savings, as they might be
able to accumulate by hard work and frugal
living to build up their industries for peace-
ful purposes.

That was the prixiciple of reparations we
agreed to at Potsdam. And the United States
will not agree to the taking from Germany
of greater reparations than was provided by
the Potsdam ‘Agreement.

The carrying out of the Potsdam Agreé-
ment has, ‘however, been obstructed by the

failure of thé Allied Control Council to take:
the necessary. steps to enable the German

(Continued on page 26),

16

17

18

19

21

--- Page 10 ---
BIPARTITE BOARD APPROVES BASIC
PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMIC UNITY

By principles of economic unity of the
British and US Zones of Germany and
bizonal committees for the implementation
of these principles in the fields of food and
agriculture, trade and industry, finance, com-
munication, and transportation have been
approved by the Bipartite Board on Eco-
nomic Unity.

The unification plan in the field of trade
and industry advanced toward realization
last week with the presentation to German
representatives of the two zones of an agree-
ment based on British-US approval of Ger-
man proposals for their joint economic ad-
ministration. The agreement, approved by
the British and US Military Governors, spe-
cifically provides for the inclusion at any
time of the French and Soviet Zones.

BASIC PRINCIPLES LISTED

The basic principles for economic unifica-
tion follow:

1. There will be established as nearly ‘as
practicable ‘a common standard of living to
include a common. ration.

2. In order that this may be accomplished,
the resources available in both zones will be
utilized to the common advantage of both
zones, to wit: :

All indigenous resources essential to the
agreed standard of living will be shared on
the basis of need among the German popula-
tion of both zones, except for those com-
modities which are subject to quadripartite
agreement for allocation.

Surplus resources or agreed percentages of
other resources will be made available for
interzonal trade or for export.

3. A common import policy will be fol-
lowed for both zones, and imports into either
zone will be limited to agreed items and
quantities to supplement indigenous resources
and provide the agreed common standard of
living.

4, A common export policy will be fol-

lowed for both zones and exports will be
limited to agreed items. and quantities.

For the implementation of these principles
of economic unity it was necessary to modify
to a certain extent present German, British
and US organization in the two zones. The
Laenderrat and Land-governments of the US
Zone and German agencies in the British
Zone will continue to function but will op-
erate in conformity with the directives of the
bizonal executive agencies to be established.
Each of these executive agencies will have
executive powers in its own field. They will
operate closely in conjunction with corres-
ponding functional agencies in the two zones,
but when their findings have been approved
by Military Government they will be manda-
tory.

The relationship between the individuals
of these agencies and the German Land gov-
ernments is that worked out by the German
themselves. These German bizonal executive
agencies will be located in various cities in
the two zones but will not be centralized,
since there is to be no joint capital for the
two zones. :

BIPARTITE CONTROL GROUPS

In order to supervise each German bizonal
agency a small bipartite control group com-
posed of US and British officers will be
established adjacent to the German agency.
This control group will serve primarily to
coordinate contacts of Military Government
personnel with personnel of the German
agency and to serve as a channel of communi-
cation between the agency .and US and
British Military Government.

Each bipartite control group will function
as a unit although composed of both British
and US officers. The chairmanship will alter-
nate between US and British officers every
two months. The staff will serve to check
and advise on activities of the German
agency but will not be responsible for plans

--- Page 11 ---
or policy.

Functional experts in US and British Mi-
litary Government in Berlin corresponding
to the respective German agencies will meet
at bipartite committees for the purpose of
considering recommendations of the German
agency in their particular field. These are
the same division directors and branch chiefs
functioning in these fields in the Allied
Control Authority.

When the Deputy Military Governors
meet together with their advisors in the same
manner that the Coordinating Committee
meets it will be known as the Bipartite Board.
For all normal cases it is considered that the
Bipartite Board will be able to rule on all
issues arising out of the new arrangement.

POLITICAL UNITY NOT INCLUDED

It has been agreed that political unity is
not an aim of the present arrangement and
that economic matters which are primarily
political in their nature will not generally be
executed for the US and British Zones in
common. This is in conformity with the
spirit of Potsdam as regards economic unity
and also as regards political decentralization.

The ‘present arrangement is a step which
is being taken towards the economic unity
in Germany envisaged by Potsdam as a result
of the inability at this time to obtain quadri-
partite agreement for measures to meet this
condition for all of Germany. It has been
made clear to the Soviet and French authori-
ties that either or both of them are welcome
to join on identical terms at any time. The
functioning of this new arrangement will in
some measure serve as an experiment to in-
dicate the feasibility of the economic agencies
envisaged by the Potsdam Agreement, be-
cause if such agencies effectively promote
economic unity of the US and British Zones
with mutual advantage to both, as is expect-
ed, there is no reason why similar agencies
could not be formed for all of Germany.

It is expected that these new arrangements
will reduce some of the restraints which
prevent the German economy in the US and
British Zones from being self-supporting at
the present time and will improve the eco-

nomic condition of the German people, at the
same time allowing a reduction in Allied
subsidy to. imports.

The plans for the various bizonal executive
committees were proposed by the German
Ministers of Food and Agriculture, Finance,
Communications, Transportation, and Eco-
nomics in the three Laender of the US Zone
and the German Chiefs of the Central Offices
in the corresponding fields in the British
Zone.

Most of the plans at this time are taken up
with organizational structure. The following
additional points are included, however:

Food and Agriculture — to be located at
Bad Kissingen.

The Main Committee for Food and Agri-
culture shall make decisions on collection,
delivery, processing and distribution of food;
food rationing, accumulation of food reserves
for special needs, equalization of food sup-
plies among the participating Laender, dis-
tribution of food from abroad and from other
zones of occupation, a production plan to be
established yearly, allocation of fertilizer and
agricultural machines, allocation of insec-
ticides and pesticides, and requirements of
seeds from abroad or of seeds locally.

Finance — to be located in the Frankfurt
area.

The Committee will consider all financial
problems affecting more than one zone, in-
cluding taxes, customs duties and tax juris-
diction; basic questions of financial adjust-
ment, budget legislation, treasury and. ac-
counting matters, public loans and financial
statistics; war debts and occupation costs;
legislation regarding public officials and sal-
aries; dispositions regarding officials and
public employees who have lost the authority
which employed them; administration and
utilization of Reich, Wehrmacht, Party and
other blocked property; monetary and credit
matters (in particular interzonal payments
and credit transactions, banking, statistics,
bank supervision, import and export financ-
ing, securities, currency); and insurance, ex-
cept social insurance.

Economics (Trade and Industry) — to be

(Continued on page 25)

--- Page 12 ---
gino Ras

nN important link between the German
people of the US Zone and the outside
world during the current occupation has
been through DANA, the news service creat-
ed, developed and controlled by US Military
Government. All German-language news-
papers, radio stations and other informa-
tional media in US occupied areas are
provided by DANA with news of the world
as well as news of developments within Ger-
many.

The value of DANA was voiced by Brig.
Gen. Robert A. McClure, Director of In-
formation Control, OMGUS, on the first an-
niversary early this month of the origina-
tion of the name for the news service, when
he said it “has played an effective part in
the creation of German newspapers which
would be responsible, democratic and truth-
ful vehicles of public information.”

“The press and news agencies of no
country are perfect instruments of informa-
tion,” added the OIC Director. “They are
subject to all the hazards which attend ac-

DANA

(Left) The Hellschreiber, a Ger-
man type radio teleprinter, which
DANA uses to service the licensed
press with its daily 15,000 word
news file. Photo by PRO, OMGUS

curate and objective news-gathering and
news-distribution. Critics of the German
press and news agency are prone to forget
this, sometimes, and they overlook, too, the
background of destruction and the dif-
ficulties which attended the rebirth of the
German press.

“It is the hope and the belief of Military
Government that DANA and the forty li-
censed German newspapers . .. will continue
to serve as vehicles of truthful public in-
formation and courageous opinion in the
months and years to come.”

ORIGINALLY GNS

The name of DANA is nearly three months
younger than the organization which was
originally set up as the German News Serv-
ice. Rather than translate the original name
directly into German, DANA was devised
by the GNS staff on 6 September 1945 from
the initials of the Deutsche Allgemeine Nach-
richten Agentur, meaning German General
News Agency.

DANA, with its main offices in Bad Nau-
heim, near Frankfurt, and bureaus in all
the important cities of the US areas, is staf-
fed by a small group of Americans in key

--- Page 13 ---
sttpervisory positions and nearly 150 Ger-
man writers and editors, most of whom re-
ceived their journalistic training while work-
ing with the service. Its development has
reached the point where negotiations have
been initiated to organize it as a licensed
enterprise owned and operated on a coopera-
tive basis by the publishers of the news-
papers in the US Zone.

The 40 licensed German newspapers, the
US official zonal newspaper Die Neue Zei-
tung and the six radio stations are serviced
by a news, file of approximately 15,000
words a day over the Hellschreiber, a Ger-
man-type radio teleprinter. They also re-

ceive a supplementary feature service and —

picture service.

UNBIASED NEWS PRESENTATION

From the beginning, DANA has sought
to instill in the German press the idea of
complete, factual reporting through un-
biased presentation of the news, to replace
the traditional German style of mixing fact
and opinion and of writing news stories
in a leisurely, discursive fashion which made
objective accounts rare. US editors of DANA
insisted on the use of American newswrit-
ing techniques such as the lead which tells
the who, what, how, when and where of a
story, and the building-up of detail so that
a story can be trimmed from the bottom
without losing essential information.

This policy did not find favor at first
among the Germans, but gradually German
editors and readers accepted these news
techniques as conducive to greater objectiv-
ity. Pursuance of this policy was strengthen-
ed by the fact that public opinion surveys
showed that the German people, wearied by
years of tendentious writing, desired news-
papers with news rather than opinion.

There was no news and informational
service in Germany at the end of the wat.
That of the Hitler regime, the DNB (Deut-
sche Nachrichten Buero), had been complete-
ly nazified and integrated into the propa-
ganda machinery. The personnel, because
of its Nazi affiliations, could not be retained.
Facilities had been destroyed, scattered and

10

lost.

Into this void late in June 1945 moved
a small group under direction of the Psych-
ological Warfare Division of SHAEF, later
the Information Control Division, to set up
a news service. In this group were two US
Army officers who had been with PWD dur-
ing the war, six experienced American news-
men who had been specially trained in New
York and London for this operation, and
half a dozen bilingual enlisted men who
had newspaper experience.

The group set up the German News Serv-
ice in a single top-floor room in a hotel
building in Bad Nauheim. Some of the news-
men were sent out to established bureaus
in Munich, Frankfurt and Wiesbaden. One
moved to Berlin with the first American
entry into that city. Equipment was scarce,
communications were almost nil and ad-
ditional experienced personnel was slow in
arriving. The most important news opera-
tions for the Germans at the time was the
Publishing Operations Section of PWD
which was supervising the US Army-estab-
lished and operated German-language news-
papers in various cities and towns of the
US occupied areas. The activities of these
newspapers ceased as soon as German news-
papers were licensed in the same cities.

SOURCES OF NEWS
POS and GNS cooperated in exchanging
news and coordinating operations. Local
German news was brought generally to Bad
Nauheim from the GNS bureaus by Army
courier. World news was obtained from the
Allied Press Service, a joint British-Amer-
ican news operation in London, and later
from the United States Press Service in
Luxembourg and in New York. Arrange-
ments also were made to obtain German

news from other occupied zones.
To keep American and Allied MG person-
nel informed on the news being furnished

‘the German press, GNS established the

“News of Germany,” a four-page paper is-
sued three times a week. This was published
at first on a mobile printing plant which
had moved with Psychological Warfare

(Continued on page 32)

--- Page 14 ---
CENTRAL

GERMAN AGENCIES

PART 6

he Department of Finance will advise

the Allied Control Authority and the
Laender on matters of general financial
policy applicable to all of Germany, prepare
proposals for laws and ordinances in the field
of finance, render financial service to other
central German agencies — for example,
budgets, custody of funds and property
management — supervise the central banks
of the Laender and the issuance of currency,
and perform such other financial functions
as the Allied Control Authority may assign
to it. In general, it will be both an advisory
and a service agency but will have no other
operating or control functions unless specif-
ically authorized to assume them by the
Allied Control Authority. Its supervisory
duties are limited to the fields of banking
and of the other national agencies and it will
have no field offices.

A German National Treasury was estab-
lished in 1879 with a secretary of state as
the head. It had custody of national funds,

it

———
—
————4
=
4
pd

he
oe

(

:

supervised the budgets of national agencies,
administered national property and the
national debt, and proposed legislation for
the level customs and consumption taxes.
The National Treasury was also the finan-
cial advisor to the Chancellor. Taxes and
customs were collected by the states, which
also enacted all direct tax laws until 1914.
The national government first enacted laws
levying direct taxes in 1914.

MINISTRY OF FINANCE

The National Treasury became the Minis-
try of Finance in 1920 and its functions
were progressively increased under the
Weimar Republic. The Ministry drafted
new tax laws, prepared and issued adminis-
trative ordinances for their enforcement, and
took over the tasks of the National Treasury.
Field offices were established under the
Ministry and an increasing number of taxes
were collected by these national customs
houses and tax offices. A series of adminis-

--- Page 15 ---
trative supervising offices insured national
control of the field offices. The Ministry
acquired control over many aspects of Land
and local finance. It determined salary and

pension policy and supervised the payment _

of salaries to national
employees.

The Nazis steadily increased the functions
and power of the Ministry of Finance. Part
of the money collected through national tax
and customs offices was redistributed to the
subordinate units of government on the hasis
of complicated equalization formulae which
permitted a wide range of discretion to na-
tional officials. “An ever-increasing number
of taxes were collected by the Ministry
until at the end of the second World War

and pensions

the national offices were collecting every-

important tax Germans had to pay, with
the sole exception of the Land Tax.

With. the ‘extensive public construction
undertaken. by the Nazis, the Supervising
Architect’s' Office in the Ministry assumed
special importance. An increasing number
of national properties came under the ad-
ministration of the Ministry, and during the
second World War the consolidation of the
Prussian Ministry of Finance with the
National Ministry greatly increased this
aspect of its work.

INDIRECT OPERATIONS

In addition to these direct functions, the
National Ministry acquired influence over
a number of independent agencies of finan-
cial concern. In some cases there were
interlocking personnel, in other cases gener-
al supervision ‘was exercised, and occasion-
ally appointments were approved by the
Ministry. Among these agencies were the
Alcohol Monopoly, which served as an
instrument of excise tax administration; the
Court of Audit, which audited Land and
local accounts as well as those of the national
agencies; the National Finance Court, which
heard appeals from the finance courts which
formed part of the tax administrative system;
the Printing Establishment, in which cur-
rency, stamps, and bonds were printed, as

12

well as papers, reports, and government do-
cuments. Debt policy continued to be for-
mulated by the Ministry, although the ad-
ministration of the debt. had been vested in
a separate agency.

FUNCTIONS OF PROPOSED AGENCY

It is now proposed to establish the Finance
Department with the following functions:

1. Supervision of budgets and expend-
itures of such central agencies as are per-
mitted. This involves recommending the
basis and amount of allocation of all funds
available for the support of functions per-
formed on. the national level as well as the
execution of the budget as approved by the
Allied Control Authority.

2. Operation of a central treasury and
cashier’s office. This office will be respon-
sible for the custody of national funds and
the proper accounting for them. It will be
the disbursing office for the national agencies
and the inter-Land adjustments of occupation
costs, and reparations will be made through
this office.

3. Study and advise the Laender with
respect to the coordination of their fiscal
policies. It will recommend to the Allied
Control Authority and the Laender the
amount each Land will contribute for the
support of central agencies, for occupation
costs and reparations, and for other inter-
Land financial settlements.

4, Advise the Allied Control Authority
with respect to financial policy for Ger-
many as a whole. This will involve the
making of studies of the existing situation
and probable future needs, with respect to
budgetary policy, taxation, customs and other
revenue policies, currency policies, and
policies concerning banks and other financial
institutions. It will include the drafting of
proposals for laws and the drafting and
promulgation, subject to the approval of
Military Government, of the supplementary
ordinances and regulations which may be
necessary to carry the laws into effect.

5. Administration of the public debt.
This will include keeping of debt records,

--- Page 16 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT Leseno
FINANGE

~——— SUPERVISED BY
SECRETARY OF STATE
ADMINISTRATIVE

-

i

»

=

issuance of certificates, advising the Allied
Control Authority and the Laender with
respect to debt and credit policy, arranging
for national loans when authorized by the
Allied Control Authority, and providing the
customary facilities for public loans.

ISSUANCE OF CURRENCY

6. Supervision of currency issuance. This
will involve a supervision of the printing
and distribution of currency and the main-
tenance of records of currency issuance and
retirement, in order to carry out the cur-
rencies of the Allied Control Authority.

7. Supervision of Land central banks.
This will insure that these banks are
operated in conformity with the policies of
the Allied Control Authority, and that they
in turn carry out the necéssary examinations
and supervision of the private financial
institutions in the various Laender.

8. Advise the Laender with respect to
organization and procedures for the collec-
tion of taxes and customs, and with respect
to the measures used for border control.

9. Maintain a bureau of financial statis-
tics — to furnish the basis for advice it may

13

be called on to give with respect to tax, debt,
expenditure and currency policies and with
respect to financial institutions.

10. Publish an Official Financial Gazette
as a service to other central agencies and to
the fiscal authorities in the Laender.

11. Personnel Administration. This will
involve the examination and training of
necessary personnel for the central financial
agency and the recommendation of measures
to coordinate the training of financial per-
sonnel in the Laender.

ADVISORY GROUP FOR ACA

12. Advise the Allied Control Authority
with respect to civil service salary and
pension policies and to recommend measures
to coordinate those policies in the Laender.

13. Supervise the construction and ad-
ministration of national buildings at the seat
of government and the maintenance of a
central architect’s office.

Certain activities in the financial field are
excluded from the jurisdiction of the Depart-
ment. The Allied Control Authority alone
can give final decision on financial policy,

--- Page 17 ---
the enactment of fiscal laws, approval of
loans, approval of budgets of central agen-
cies, and determination of the contributions
required- from: the Laender for the support
of the central agencies and other inter-Land
financial settlements. Supervision of the
fiscal policies and administration of the
Laender is likewise under the Allied Control
Authority and is not within the jurisdiction
of the Department. .

Other activities in the financial field which
are assigned to the Laender or to local
authorities and are outside the jurisdiction
of the Department include the collection of
all taxes, preparation and execution of the
Land budgets, approval of the budgets and
supervision of the financial affairs of the
local units, equalization of revenue resources
among them, selection and training of
financial personnel and determination of
salary scales and pension administration at
Land and local levels, and the examination
and supervision of banking, apart from the
Central Banks of the Laender.

OTHER FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES

Certain financial activities are to be under-
taken by agencies independent of the Depart-
ment so far as policies and operations are
concerned but closely related to it and
attached to it for administrative. services,
such as personnel and supplies. These
include the auditing of public accounts to
be undertaken through a Court of Audit to
be established by and directly responsible to
the Allied Control Authority; the interp-
retation of financial legislation and
ordinances in the last resort to be undertaken
by a Finance Court to be established by and
responsible to the Allied Control Authority;
and the coordination of the operations of
central banks of each of the Laender. In
this latter field banking coordination will be
secured and the financial requirements of
the German economy, reparations, exports
and imports, and reconstruction will be
balanced through an agency to be established
under the direct supervision of the Allied
Control Authority. After the Department is
established, close liaison with any central

- banking agency should be worked out.

The Department of Finance will be re-
sponsible to the Allied Control Council but
will be under the-direct supervision of the
Finance Directorate. The Allied Control
Council, on the recommendation of the
Finance Directorate, will determine the
matters reserved to it as above indicated and
exercise general supervision over the central

* financial agency through the exercise of such

14

powers as the approval of its budget, the
selection of its secretary, the enactment of
laws proposed, and annulment of ordinances
or administrative regulations promulgated.

RELATIONSHIP WITH DIRECTORATE

All proposals for items to be considered
by the Allied Control Council will be
presented first to the Finance Directorate for
its study and recommendation. Advisory
relationship may be maintained between the
staff of the Finance Directorate and the
Divisions of the Central Financial Agency,
but all orders to it will come from ‘the
Allied Control Council or the Directorate
and all communications from the agency
will be addressed to it or to the Allied
Control Council.

The responsible head of the central finan-
cial agency is to be the Secretary for
Finance. He is to be responsible to the Allied
Control Authority for the work and
functioning of all divisions in the Agency.

OFFICE OF SECRETARY OF STATE

The Finance Department will be organized
into the Office of the Secretary of State and
six divisions. The Office of the State
Secretary will pass -on organizational and
administrative matters, will publish the
official financial gazette, and will maintain
the finance library.

The Budget and Expenditure Division
formulates and recommends the budget of
the financial agency and supervises the
budgets of other national agencies; super-
vises the execution of these budgets when
approved; performs pre-audit functions, and
executes the budget of central agencies; rec-
ommends the amount and basis of contri-

--- Page 18 ---
butions from the Laender for the support of
national agencies and other national ex-
penses; recommends methods of coordinating
inter-Land financial setlements such as
those for occupation costs and reparations;
administers the public debt; and operates
the central treasury cashier’s office and
customary facilities for loans of local goy-
ernments.

The Revenue Division formulates and
recommends policies with respect to customs,
excises, taxes, and other revenues, including
those from the alcohol monopoly; advises
the Laender with respect to border control
measures; supervises the alcohol monopoly;
prepares proposals for revenue laws and
administrative ordinances and regulations
relating to them.

The Banking and Currency Division super-
vises the central banks of the Laender,
insurance companies, and the printing,
distribution and retirement of currency,
and maintains records necessary to carry
out the banking and currency policies of the
Allied Control Authority.

FINANCIAL PLANNING DIVISION

The Financial Planning Division for-
mulates and recommends policies and plans
for coordinating financial policies with any
centrally established banking agency, other
central agencies, and the Laender; operates
a bureau of financial statistics; drafts and
recommends regulations, orders, and pro-
posals for laws on financial matters.

The Personnel Administration Division
examines and trains personnel for the central
financial agency; advises on coordinating
the training of financial personnel in the
Laender; and advises the Allied Control
Council with respect to salary, pension, and
accident compensation matters affecting
national employees.

The Construction and Property Adminis-
tration Division administers nationally-
owned buildings, except those used by the
Transport and Postal Agencies; maintains
the central architects office; and proposes
plans and supervises the construction of any
new structure or improvements.

15

No direct control will be exercised over
any similar Land function or over any local
unit of government. The Laender and units
of local government will be required to
furnish informational and statistical reports
to the appropriate divisions of the central
financial agency. Coordination with the
Laender and other local governmental units
will be effected through the mutual furnish-
ing of advice, information and statistical
data, through the publication of a gazette,
through such advisory councils as may be
required, and through the holding of con-
ferences.

PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS

The organization outlined above calls for
eight top management positions, as follows:
One secretary of state for finance, one deputy
secretary of state for finance with rank of
Ministerialdirigent, and six directors of
division, with rank of Ministerialrat. Other
personnel are to be selected by the official
in the top management position who is to
be in charge of the employee’s work.
Permanent selection will be made after
competitive examination. The organization
outlined above will require about 157
employees, including about 108 officials of
all grades.

SITE OF HEADQUARTERS

The headquarters of the central financial
agency should be located in the same city,
and if possible, in close proximity to the
headquarters of the other central agencies.
Since one of the chief functions of Finance
is to service the other agencies, it is highly
desirable that it be near them. For the per-
formance of its advisory functions, close
proximity is not necessary, and hence the
agency need not necessarily be located in
the same city as the Allied Control Council.

The organization would require about 87
office rooms. Special office space is
required for the cashier’s office and it should
contain suitable vault and cage equipment.
In all, not less than 14,000 square feet of
floor space would be needed.

Technical equipment which would be re-

(Continued on page 25)

--- Page 19 ---


--- Page 20 ---
TT scenes on these two pages form a com-

posite picture of reconstruction activity
which might have been taken in any of a
dozen or more cities of the US Zone. Despite

the critical shortage of manpower and essen-
tial building materials, progress is being
made toward repairing the extensive damage
caused by the war. Under the supervision of
Military Government German civilian work-
ers are clearing and repairing war-torn
streets, rebuilding blasted houses and restoring
transportation and communication facilities.

(Above left) German civilians repair a cobblestone
street in Stuttgart; (below left) workers rebuilding a
house in Mannheim; (center) workmen breaking up a
huge sandstone boulder in what was once Frankturt's
main street; (below right) repairmen put back into
service a damaged frolley line. Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 21 ---
GENERAL

Looted Art Recovered

The recovery of three paintings from the
looted collection of Nazi Reichsleiter Alfred
Rosenburg was announced by the Monuments
and Fine Arts and Archives Section, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS.

The three paintings include a group scene
by the Flemish master, Dirk Hals, a portrait
by the Flemish master, Harman Hals, and a
portrait by a member of the Watteau school,
probably Lancret. The values of the first
two paintings are respectively estimated at
$2,500; the one presumed to be by Lancret at
between $15,000 and $20,000.

These paintings were originally stolen by
the Nazis from Dutch or French owners and
were hung in Rosenburg’s Berlin villa where
they remained until the Russians entered the
city when they were again looted, this time
by German civilians. A German policeman
recognized the paintings, recovered them, and
turned them over to the temporary assistant
mayor of Schmargendorf, Berlin, for safe-
keeping. The paintings remained on the wall
in his office when he was dismissed.

The paintings were located and identified
recently by an OMGUS art intelligence of-
ficer. They were taken into custody by
British authorities until it can be established
from which country they were looted. They
will then be returned to their rightful
owners.

Indentity Card Program

Postponement of completion of the identity
card program for German civilians of the
US Zone has been disapproved by OMGUS.
The request made because of difficulties in
procuring the necessary type of paper and
photographic materials, would if approved
have extended the deadline from 30 Sep-
tember to next February.

Calling attention to previous action taken
to expedite release of cameras, film and other

18

stated:

“Reports received by Office of Military
Government for Germany from German
Laender officials, through the Land offices,
and from Military Government field repre-
sentatives indicate that sufficient quantities
of necessary raw materials and photographic
supplies are already available or can be made
available to the Land Governments to permit
completion of the registration card program
by 30 September 1946, the present target
date, providing instructions are followed
for requesting, through the Laenderrat, exact
amounts of materials desired to be released
from requisitioned stocks.”

British Zone Activities

Fifteen Hamburg restaurants have been
closed by the British authorities for suspected
black market dealings. It is reported that
wines, believed to have been smuggled into
the town from other zones, were being sold
at current black market prices in these
restaurants.

To ensure that dishonest and undesirable
Germans are not engaged as domestics by
British married families, a “black list” is
being compiled of German mess, club, billet
and other domestic employees who have been
discharged after conviction for theft or other
malpractices.

Fifteen lecturers from training colleges,
universities and schools in Britain are visit-
ing the British Zone in connection with adult
education. After an initial briefing, members
of the group will go to Berlin, Hamburg,
Hannover, Oldenburg, Westphalia, Hildes-
heim and North Rhine, remaining in those
areas for about a month.

During the second week of this month
Great Britain imported 5,141 tons of food-
stuffs into Hamburg, exclusively destined
for the German population in the British
Zone. Among the imports were: 1090 tons

--- Page 22 ---
of barley, 529 tons of tinned meat and
vegetables, 2 tons of cocoa powder, and
large consignments of fish.

Besides giving a certain number of lectures,
the visitors will hold regular tuition classes
with small groups of people drawn from
teacher training units, youth clubs, and trade
unions.

Personnel Changes

M. S. Szymezak, member of the Board of
Governors, Federal Reserve System, has
become Chief of the Trade and Commerce
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS. He
succeeded Frederick Winant who is return-
ing to the United States after 14 months as
head of the branch.

Richard F. Howard, former director of the
Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, has been named
Chief of the Monuments, Fine Arts and
Archives Section, OMGUS. He succeeded
Major L. Bancel La Farge who had served
as section chief since 15 July 1945.

Col Stephan A. Park, has been appointed
Deputy Director for Administration, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS. He has been Exec-
utive Officer of the division.

Frederick G. Hulse has been named
Deputy Chief of the Restitution Branch,
OMGUS.

Recent assignments in USFET personnel
include: Maj. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner as
Chief of Staff; Maj. Gen. Withers A. Burgess
as Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2; Maj. Gen.
Edwin P. Parker, Jr., as Inspector General;
Col. James P. Murphy as Chief of the
Dependents School Service.

New Function for AES

The Army Exchange Service will assume
responsibility for the operation of laundry,
dry cleaning, pressing, tailoring and shoe
repair facilities for officers and authorized
civilians before 1 November. The operation
of these services by the Office of the Theater
Chief Quartermaster will be discontinued,
and the Chief of Special Services will deter-
mine which installations are to be taken over.

19

Nazi Flags Put to Good Use

Hundreds of Nazi flags and signal’ pen-
nants are now being made into childrens
dresses by Displaced Persons at an UNRRA
school in Lubeck. More than fifty different
articles are being produced at the school,
and the products have already aroused great
interest in fashion circles outside Germany.

Seventy Latvian and Estonian girls from
surrounding DP Centers are working at the
school where they strip flags down to make
lengths of cotton and cut up Luftwaffe
parachutes to provide silks for embroidery
work. One of the articles, slippers, are made
from woollen sashes lined with German
bunting and decorated with lace and creamed
silk. Another job is weaving of intricate
national designs into linen table cloths,
scarves and dresses.

Publishing Survey

The Office of the Director of Information
Control is conducting a survey to prevent
unauthorized small scale publishing in the
US Zone. The survey, which will be com-
pleted by 20 September, will include in-
formation on all newspapers and periodicals
being published, the number of copies of
each, source of newsprint or other paper
used,. names of responsible publishers or
editors and areas of distribution if known.

Transport Continues Free

Transportation on all German local public
transport systems in the US Zone is to con-
tinue free to US military personnel, US
civilian employees, Allied military and ci-
vilian personnel in uniform and all other
persons possessing proper AGO cards, ac-
cording to an OMGUS directive. All other
persons will pay standard fares except those
persons who may be authorized free trans-
portation by German public transport enter-
prises. A USFET directive provides that,
except in the performance of official duties,
the entry or travel in Reichspost railroad
mail cars in prohibited ‘to all US, Allied or
other personnel and agencies, both military
and civilian.

--- Page 23 ---
US ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

The war potential of 66 plants for aircraft
and munitions manufacturing has been com-
pletely eliminated in the US Zone by dis-
mantling and destruction.

A hide and leather controller has been
appointed by the Laenderrat in an attempt
to eliminate the bottle-neck in hides and to
distribute leather equitably. Shoe repairs as
well as shoes are now rationed because of a
scarcity of leather.

For identification of barge crews crossing
the German-Austrian border, the Combined
Travel Security Board has agreed to issue
the “Exit Military Permits” approved by the
Joint Board for Control-Operations of Craft
Movement on the Danube River.

Between 15 and 30 percent of all motor
vehicles being used now in German opera-
tions in the Zone are expected to become
unserviceable by the end of 1947.

Nine additional trawlers have been released
from minesweeping operations for conversion
to fishing vessels for the Wesermuende fleet.

TRANSIT RAIL CHARGES

At the direction of the Quadripartite
Transport ‘Directorate, a study will be made
every six months, or as frequently as nec-
esssary, to determine the. coefficient to be
applied to the Reichsbahn regular passenger
fare schedules existing as of 1 January 1939
in order to maintain’ transit rail charges’ in
Germany on a parity with corresponding
charges in neighboring countries.

An estimated. 30,000 pairs of children’s
shoes can be made from scrap leather which
will become available from cutting down
50,000 pairs of US Army cavalry boots for
use of the US Army Constabulary.

More than 1,000 ikons are being returned
to the Soviet Union under the program of
returning German loot.

The first Land trade union federation in
the US Zone has been formally formed in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden. Preparatory steps are
being taken to organize similar federations
in Greater Hesse and Bavaria.

20

The newly approved franking machine
impression for use in the British, Soviet and
US Zones must be installed by 31 December,
according to quadripartite decision.

The Hessische Nachrichten, newspaper
published in Kassel, was granted permission
to publish four times weekly instead of three.

MUNICH YOUTH GROUP

The Munich Youth Committee has obtained
a bomb-damaged building, formerly belong-
ing to the Nazi Party, for use as its new
headquarters.

The Laenderrat has passed a statute im-
plementing the functions of its Berlin office
so that the Berlin representatives may deal
directly with German officials in Berlin from
the other zones. ;

Twenty-two thousand tons of food arrived
from the United States in August for Ger-
man use. In July 165,000 tons were imported
from the United States, but this amount
included some backlog from preceeding
months.

Nearly nine million cans for meat and
three million cans for vegetables, potatoes
and mixed products are planned to be
manufactured in the US Zone during the
remainder of the year.

PUBLIC HEALTH COMMITTEE

The formation of a public health com-
mittee has been recommended to the Laender-
rat by MG. The committee’s functions would
include recommendations on public health
problems common to the three Laender, com-
ment on Laenderrat action affecting the
medical profession, and study of establish-
ment of a zonal public health statistical
office.

25,000 bales of cotton imported from
the United States are being distributed to
mills in the Zone. It is estimated that the
zonal spinning and weaving capacity can
process 65,000 tons of raw cotton per year.

--- Page 24 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

RESULTS OF SOVIET ZONE

REVIEWED BY BERLIN NEWSPAPERS

Rows from the local elections in Saxony,
the first of three held in areas of the
Soviet Zone on consecutive Sundays, were
prominently reported and interpreted in the
Berlin press. The report by SNB, the Soviet
news service in the zone, said 93.6 percent
of the eligible voters participated. Out of
3,322,342 votes cast, 2,996,364 were valid.
The breakdown among parties was given as
SED 1,608,851, LDP 671,271, CDU 655,147,
Farmers Aid 29,493, Womens Committees
24,663, others 6,939.

The SNB quoted a Berlin dispatch of
DANA, US-controlled news service in the
US Zone, as reporting that ten American
correspondents who observed the elections at
first hand unanimously agreed that the elec-
tions were free and had been conducted prop-
erly. “They reported the elections were
entirely quiet and they had not been ob-
structed in checking the elections,” the dis-
patch said. “In various places they watched
the counting of the ballots. This was carried
through openly so that everyone had a chance
to observe this. The voting was secret in
the truest sense of the word.”

Arno Scholz in the British-licensed Tele-
graf interpreted the elections as a “defeat of
the labor movement,” pointing out that the
expectations of the SED were not fulfilled.
“The cities clearly decided against the SED,”
the writer contended, pointing out that the
Social Democrats were barred from running
candidates and the large cities witnessed
bourgeois majorities. He recalled that Saxony
has always been a socialist stronghold.

The US-licensed Tagesspiegel declared the
voting in the eastern zone was not influenced
from the outside, the voting propaganda had

21

nothing in common with the expression of the
will of the voters and the German people
have shown they will not accept everything
without objection. “The most important
thing was that the voters really voted and
did not merely say ‘yes,’” the newspaper
asserted. “The results present a rather sur-
prising clarification of the ideological conflict
between the Marxist, socialist and bourgeois
lines, and also prove that the democratic
development proceeds in spite of all pessi-
mistic speculations.”

Likewise, the French-licensed Kurier
declared the sweeping majority expected by
many persons for the SED was not realized,
citing the fact that in many of the larger
cities the bourgeoise parties received large
votes. “Thus it is shown,” the paper adds,
“that the political experiment of this voting
— namely, the joint action of the Social
Democrats and Communists in a uniform
political organization — has not had the
results expected by the supporters of unity.”
More important than all party problems is
the fact that the elections were carried out
on a democratic basis, it noted.

The Tagliche Rundschau, overt Soviet
newspaper in Berlin, pointed out that the
Saxonian voters “gave most of their votes
to the Socialist Unity Party” but added that
the LDP gained more votes than the CDU.
It observed that all parties supported re-
construction but the SED had set the pace.
The Neue Zeit, CDU organ, declared the
elections were a milestone on the democratic
road. British-licensed Socialdemocrat noted
that in the smaller communities where only
the SED and Farmers Aid lists were drawn

--- Page 25 ---
up the figure of invalid votes was particu-
larly high.

The Neues Deutschland, SED central
organ, said, “Never have such elections as
these taken’ place in Germany, and above all,
never have German men and women gone to
the balloting places so completely free as
in these first community elections in ithe
Red Army-occupied zone of Germany .. .
The population showed it is honestly ready
and determined to make the greatest efforts
to set up a free and democratic state, a uni-
form and peaceful country which honestly
strives for friendship with the other nations.”

Radio Berlin Status

In a short report of a recent Kommanda-
tura meeting in Berlin, the British-licensed
Telegraf declared the American commander
proposed that Radio Berlin be brought under
four-power control.

“The broadcasting studio and administra-
tive buildings are in the British Sector and
the transmitting station in the French Sector,
noted the Telegraf, adding that the entire
station is under Russian control.

“The station was taken over after Berlin’s
occupation and was left to the Russians when
the other three Allies came to Berlin because
at that time no other radio station was work-
ing in the Russian zone.

“In the meantime, however, the Russians
started work and set up broadcasting sta-
tions at Weimar, Leipzig and Schwerin and
other small places.” The Kommandatura
session decided to tackle the whole matter
again, concluded the report.

Papers Confiscated

A DANA dispatch which appeared in the
Telegraf and the Tagesspiegel in Berlin re-
ported that the American member formally
protested at a recent Kommandatura, session
against the confiscation of Die Neue Zeitung
and Tagesspiegel in the Soviet Sector of
Berlin.

“The papers probably were forcibly taken
from newsstands by Soviet military and Ger-

22

man police for reports on the SPD meeting
and for critical articles on political leaders
of the SED,” continued the dispatch, noting
a similar protest was lodged by the British
commandant for confiscation of the Telegraf
and Socialdemocrat.

“The Soviet commander, Alexander Koti-
kov, declared ... he will not permit any
attacks against the occupation forces,” noted
the report.

“When the American and British represen-
tatives called attention to the fact that the
Taegliche Rundschau, official organ of the
Red Army in Berlin, raised charges saying
that the American and British press supports
or permits anti-Soviet propaganda in prep-
aration for a new war, the Soviet command-
er did not answer,” declared the report.

“At the same time,” concluded the dispatch,
“the matter is being treated by the Allied
Control Council.”

Zonal Unity, Civil Service

Discussed by US Zone Press

The weekly analysis by the Office of In-
formation Control, OMGUS, of the news-
papers of the US Zone showed that the bulk
of the space was devoted during the week of
25—31 August to German news. Plans for
an administrative office of economics for the
US and British zones and the establishment
of the central food committee maintained
interest in zonal unity. Reorganization of
the German civil service was top news in
some issues. Editorial comment was gloomy
in reference to the Paris Peace Conference.
Special features marked Goethe’s birthday.

* * *

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) directed a
challenge to the populace of Bremen to put
an end to rumors that various former Nazis
have been overlooked in the denazification
program. The Kurier published an announce-
ment by the Director of MG for the Bremen
Enclave, calling on the people to point out
Nazis who still have important positions,

* * *

In an article discussing the disparity be-
(Continued on page 31)

--- Page 26 ---
Tr New Yorker magazine’s departure from
its normal content to devote an entire issue
to an account of what atomic bombing horror
and destruction can mean in terms of individ-
ual human beings was widely commended
by newspaper editorial and radio commen-
tators. The popular weekly humor magazine
carried a lenghty account of the aftermath
of the bombing of Hiroshima, Japan, last
August, written by author and playwright
John Hersey.

This account, observers agree, graphically
underlines the crying need for world-wide
awareness of the terrible implications of the
atom bomb and the urgent necessity for
adopting a sound international plan for
control of atomic bomb.

The New York Times said in part: “The
New Yorker normally carries pungent com-
ment, good reporting, able criticism and
much other material that is not intended to
provoke laughter. Still, in text and pictures,
the laughter is usually there. This week it
is not, for the entire magazine has been given
over to John Hersey’s account of what hap-
pened to six principal characters and about
245,000 others in the Japanese city of Hiro-
shima on 6 August, 1945 and thereafter.

“What happened to about 100,000 is clear.
They died. What happened to the lucky six
is an example of what human beings can
endure and not die. Every American who
has come to regard them as just one sensation-
al phenomenon that can now be accepted as
part of civilization, like an airplane or gaso-
line engine, or has allowed himself to spec-
ulate as to what we might do with them if
we were forced into another war, ought to
read Mr. Hersey... .

“Disaster at Hiroshima and Nagasaki were
our handiwork. They were defended then,
and are defended now, by the argument that
they saved more lives than they took —
more lives of Japanese as well as more lives
of Americans ... The argument may be
sound or may be unsound. One may think
it sound when he recalls Tarawa, Iwo Jima
and Okinawa. One may think it unsound
when he reads Mr. Hersey. History is
history. It cannot be undone. We have had
pictures of what an atom bomb, or many
atom bombs, could do to an American city.
Naturally they have appalled us.

“We might also ask ourselves if we could
endure the burden of conscience if it ever
again seemed necessary to us to drop atomic
bombs, and we did drop atomic bombs, on a
foreign city.”

The New York Herald Tribune com-
mented: “Mr. Hersey’s story of Hiroshima
should be read—widely read—and read with
grim knowledge that the dilemma of the
atomic bomb has not yet been resolved. It
should provide a counterpoint for every
study of the day’s news. When a mob par-
ades gesticulating through Trieste, it is
worth while remembering the thousands who
fled Hiroshima, torn and burned, walking
with their heads bowed and showing’ no
expression whatever’. When diplomats ex-
change noisy invective, their words should
be measured against the terrible silence that
reigned in a grove by the river in Hiroshima,
where hundreds suffered and died without
weeping or moaning. No international situa-
tion should be weighted without putting
Hiroshima in the scales... .”

Radio commentator Quincy Howe: “States-

--- Page 27 ---
men who cannot outgrow the balance of
power politics, or think beyond a sphere of
influence; will do well to consider the
example. which the New Yorker magazine
has, just set all of us.”

“Radio. commentator Martin Agronsky:
“Nothing in the world is so important as to
see that no human beings anywhere else in
world should ever be permitted to suffer so
terrible a result of man’s inhumanity to man
as the people of Hiroshima suffered.”

Elections Seen as Revealing

Purposes of Allied Powers

Under the title of “Elections in Germany,”
a recent editorial in the New York Herald
Tribune said: “The confusion and political
cynicism in Germany are still so predom-
inant as to make elections there relatively
unimportant as indications of the trend of
public opinion. Without present respon-
sibility for the conduct of the most im-
portant aspects of a German government,
without any clear notion of what constitutes
Germany today or what will constitute it
tomorrow, German politicians must operate
very largely in a vaccum — like a high-
school class in civics or government which
transforms itself into a Senate of the United
States and debates the issues of the day.
The principal present significance of elec-
tions in Germany, therefore, is the light they
shed on the methods and purposes of the
occupying powers.

“The elections which have taken place
within the American Zone in Germany were
criticized as premature, as not permitting a
sufficiently thorough denazification of the
voting lists. The Americans were anxious to
begin Germany’s re-education in the dem-
ocratic processes, perhaps over-anxious.
But, if their haste allowed some weighing of
the results on the conservative side this
distortion was probably not excessive. The
Russians, for their part, seem to be stacking
the cards assiduously in favor of the Com-
munist-Socialist union which they sponsored
in their zone. They may argue that in this
they are simply doing what the Americans

24

failed to do in the way of denazifying Ger-
man politics, but it seems probable that the
result will be a smashing “victory” for the
Socialist Unity Party and the virtual estab-
lishment of that group as the sole party
in the Russian Zone.

“To be sure, the Russians have not insisted
on that single slate of candidates which is
so popular in other portions of the Russian
orbit. Indeed, it is reported that the threat
of the head of the Christian Democratic
party to dissolve his group in the Russian
Zone and to boycott the elections induced
the Soviet Zone to allow greater represen-
tation to the Christian Democrats on the
ballot; the Russians do not, therefore wish
to affront Western sentiment openly. But
the whole direction of their policy in regard
to.the formation of the Socialist Unity Party
and the conduct of the elections makes it
plain that they are seeking the dominance
of a single party under Russian aegis. It is
in the light of this intention that the returns
from .... elections in the Russian Zone
must be studied.”

World Education Group

US newspapers, emphasizing the
portance of education as the key to world
peace, expressed hope for success of a new
world organization of the teaching profes-
sion set up by delegates from 30 nations.
Regarding a proposal made at the recent
conference for a world-wide plan to exchange
thousands of students and teachers, it was
pointed out that the US State Department
has already adopted a far-reaching program
implementing such exchange.

The Washington Post said, “It was a
sense of their own high responsibility which
brought teachers together; and their aware-
ness of this responsibility may be taken as
one of the most hopeful auguries in a
troubled world. Cure by education is a long
and slow cure; but it is the only thorough
and permanent one. We ‘hope that the
newly founded world. organization of the
teaching profession will grow and thrive in
pursuit of its splendid purposes.”

im-

--- Page 28 ---
BIZONAL UNITY (Continued from page 8)

located at Minden, Westphalia.

The Main Economics Committee will enact
directives valid for all participating Laender
and administrative units on matters of basic
principles of the general German economic
law and economic penal law; foreign trade
production of goods, including mining; dis-
tribution of goods including control of sales
and consumption; trade between the German
Laender; price formation and price control;
industrial standardization; economics statis-
tics; basic problems of energy (gas, water,
electricity).

Transportation — to be located at Biele-
feld, except for the Maritime Agency which
will be at Hamburg.

Full details of plans in the field of trans-
portation have not been ironed out, but agree-
ment has been reached on establishment of a
uniform tariff and rates policy, allocation of
supplies available for the entire transport
system, principles of transport policy and
exclusive legislation on principle legal max-
ims for general German transport law; rail-
ways used for general transport; inter-Land,
interzonal and international highway trans-
port; waterways used for general transport,
and inland navigation; maritime shipping,
sea waterways, navigation marks and pilot-
ing with the exception of harbor piloting.

There will be also a communication agency,
but its organization and location have not

been decided.

Following the presentation of the agree-
ment for implementing the unification plan
on trade and industry in Frankfurt last week,
the German representatives began work on
planning the details of the administration
through which they will carry out the func-
tions delegated to them. The German com-
mittee handling this work is composed of the
ministers of economics of the three Laender
of the US Zone and three Germans nominated
by the British Military Government.

While prinvipal responsibility in the eco-
nomic field was assigned to this bizonal
organization, it was stated definitely that the
central office of economics in the British
Zone and the economic council of the Laen-
derrat in the US Zone will continue to func-
tion. However, the Laender will be obliged
to carry out the decisions of the committee.

The economic executive committee, in ad-
dition to enacting directives valid for all
participating Land and administrative units
on economic matters dealing with trade and
industry, will cooperate with the joint com-
mittee for finance on questions of bank and
credit policy insofar as they affect trade and
industry. It will establish its own bylaws
and organize its own administrative agency.

Pending general decisions on financing, the
cost of the administration will be borne
equally by the British and US Zones.

CENTRAL GERMAN AGENCIES (Continued from page 15)

quired would include the following: vaults,
business machines, calculators, statistical
machines, adding machines, typewriters and
drafting equipment. This is in addition to
the usual office furniture of desks, tables,
files, chairs and shelving. A finance library
containing essential records, laws, and
documents of the National Ministry of
Finance and treatises on public finance
problems will also be needed.

No information is available concerning the
quantity or types of equipment available
for the initial use of the organization out-
lined above. It seems reasonable to assume,

25

however, that the organization will be forced
to use existing equipment, since new equip-
ment is largely unobtainable. If this used
equipment is requisitioned, it will be
acquired at the legal prices.

On the basis of the German government
pay tables as of 1944, with authorized ad-
ditions for longevity and dependents, the
personnel cost is estimated at RM 1,400,000
per year. Cost of other than personal serv-
ice is estimated at RM 600,000 per year,
based on the ratio between personnel and
other than personal service in the 1943
budget for the Ministry of Finance.

--- Page 29 ---
22

23

24

25

26

27

WE WANT A LASTING PEACE (Continued from page 6)

economy to. function as an economic unit.
Essential central German administrative
departments have not been established, al-
though they are expressly required by the
Potsdam Agreement.

The equitable distribution of essential
commodities between the several zones so
as to produce a balanced economy through-
out Germany and reduce the need for im-
ports has not been arranged, although that
too is expressly required by the Potsdam
Agreement.

The working out of a balanced economy
throughout Germany to provide the necess-
ary means to pay for approved imports has
not been accomplished, although that too is
expressly required by the Potsdam Agree-
ment.

The United States is firmly of the belief
that Germany should be administered as an
economic unit and that zonal barriers should
be completely obliterated so for as economic
life and activity in Germany are concerned.

The conditions which now exist in Ger-
many make it impossible for industrial pro-
duction to reach the levels which the oc-
cupying powers agreed were essential for
a minimum German peacetime economy.
Obviously, if the agreed levels of industry
are to be reached, we cannot continue to
restrict the free exchange of commodities,
persons and ideas throughout Germany. The
barriers between the four zones of Germany
are far more difficult to surmount than those
between normal independent states. :

The time has come when the zonal bound-
aries should be regarded as defining only
the areas to be occupied for security purposes
by the armed forces of the occupying powers,
and not as self-contained economic or polit-
ical units.

That was the course of development en-
visaged by the Potsdam Agreement and that
is the course of development which the
American Government intends to follow to
the full limit of its authority. It has formally
announced that it is its intention to unify
the economy of its own zone with any or

26

all of the other zones willing to participate
in the unification.

So far only the British Government has
agreed to let its zone participate. We deeply
appreciate their cooperation. Of course, this
policy of unification is not intended to ex-
clude the governments not now willing to
join. The unification will be open to them at
any time they wish to join.

FAVOR COMPLETE UNIFICATION

We favor the economic unification of Ger-
many. If complete unification cannot be
secured, we shall do everything in our power
to secure the maximum possible unification.

Important as economic unification is for

the recovery of Germany and of Europe, the
German people must recognize that the basic
cause of their suffering and distress is the
war which the Nazi Dictatorship brought
upon the world.
' But just because suffering and distress in
Germany is inevitable, the American Gov-
ernment is unwilling to accept responsibility
for the needless aggravation of economic
distress that is caused by the failure of the
Allied Control Council to agree to give the
German people a chance to solve some of
their most urgent economic problems.

So far as many vital questions are con-
cerned, the Control Council is neither gov-
erning Germany nor allowing Germany to
govern itself.

A common financial policy is essential for
the successful rehabilitation of Germany.
Runaway inflation accompanied by economic
paralysis is almost certain to develop unless
there is a common financial policy directed
to the control of inflation. A program of
drastic fiscal reform to reduce currency and
monetary claims, to revise the debt structure
and to place Germany on a sound financial
basis is urgently required.

The United States has worked hard to
develop such a program but fully coordinated
measures must be accepted and applied uni-
formly to all Zones if ruinous inflation is
to be prevented. A central agency of finance

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

--- Page 30 ---
35

36

37

38

39

is obviously necessary to carry out any such
program effectively.

It is also essential that transportation,
communications and postal services should
be organized throughout Germany without
regard to zonal barriers. The nation-wide
organization of these public services was
contemplated by the Potsdam Agreement.
Twelve months have passed and nothing has
been done.

GERMANY’S NEED FOR FOOD

Germany needs all the food she can
produce. Before the war she could not
produce enough food for her population.
The area of Germany has been reduced. The
population of Silesia, for instance, has been
forced back into a restricted Germany.
Armies of occupation and displaced persons
increase demands while lack of farm
machinery and fertilizer reduce supplies. To
secure the greatest possible production of
food and the most effective use and distri-
bution of the food that can be produced, a
central administrative department for agri-
culture should be set up and allowed to
function without delay.

Similarly, there is urgent need for the
setting up of a central German administrative
agency for industry and foreign trade.
While Germany must be prepared to share
her coal and steel with the liberated countries
of Europe dependent upon these supplies,
Germany must be enabled to use her skills
and her energies to increase her industrial
production and to organize the most effective
use of her raw materials.

Germany must be given a chance to export
goods in order to import enough to make her
economy self-sustaining. Germany is a part
of Europe; and recovery in Europe and
particularly in the adjoining states will be
slow indeed if Germany with her great
resources of iron and coal is turned into a
poor house.

‘When the ruthless Nazi Dictatorship was
forced to surrender unconditionally, there
was no German Government with which the
Allies could deal. The Allies had tempor-

27

arily to take over the responsibilities of the
shattered German State, which the Nazi
Dictatorship had cut off from any genuine
accountability to the German people. The
Allies could not leave the leaders or minions
of Nazism in key positions ready to reassert
their evil influence at the first opportunity.
They had to go.

But it never was the intention of the Amer-
ican Government to deny to the German
people the right to manage their own internal
affairs as soon as they were able to do so in
a democratic way with genuine respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms. ~

The Potsdam Agreement concluded only
a few months after the surrender bound the
occupying powers to restore local self-gov-
ernment and to introduce elective and
representative principles into the regional,
provincial and state administration as
rapidly as was consistent with military
security and the purposes of military
occupation.

The principal purposes of the military
occupation were and are to demilitarize and
denazify Germany but not to raise artificial
barriers to the efforts of the German people
to resume their peace-time economic life.

ALIEN DICTATORSHIP BARRED

The Nazi war criminals were to be
punished for the suffering they brought to
the world. The policy of reparations and
industrial disarmament prescribed in the
Potsdam Agreement was to be carried out.
But the purposes of the occupation did not
contemplate a prolonged alien dictatorship
of Germany’s peacetime economy or a pro-
longed alien dictatorship of Germany’s
internal political life. The Potsdam Agree-
ment expressly bound the occupying powers
to start building a political democracy from
the ground up.

The Potsdam Agreement did not provide
that there should never be a central German
government. It merely provided that for the
time being there should be no central German
government. Certainly this only meant that
no central German government should be

40

41

42

43

44

--- Page 31 ---
45

46

47

established until some sort of democracy
was rooted in the soil of Germany and some
sense of local responsibility developed.

The Potsdam Agreement wisely provided
that the administration of affairs of Germany
should be directed towards the decentraliz-
ation of the political structure and the
development of local responsibility. This
was not intended to prevent progress towards
a central government with the powers
necessary to deal with matters which should
be dealt. with on a nation-wide basis. But
it was intended to prevent the establishment
of a strong central government dominating
the German people instead of being respons-
ible to their democratic will.

It is the view of the American government
that the German people throughout Germany
under proper safeguards, should now be
given the primary responsibility for the run-
ning of their own affairs.

More than a year has passed since hostili-
ties ceased. The millions of German people
should not be forced to live in doubt as to
their fate. It is the view of the American
government that the Allies should without
delay make clear to the German people the
essential terms of the peace settlement which
they expect the German people to accept

and observe. It is our view that the German

people should now be permitted and helped
to make the necessary preparations for the
setting up of a democratic German govern-
ment which can accept and observe those
terms. Sy

POSSIBILITY OF VIOLATION CITED

From now on the thoughtful people of the
world will judge Allied action in Germany
not by Allied promises but by Allied per-
formances. The American government has
supported and will continue to support
necessary measures to denazify and demili-
tarize Germany, but it does not believe that
large armies of alien soldiers or alien
bureaucrats, however well motivated and
disciplined, are in the long run the most
reliable guardians of another country’s
democracy.

28

All that the Allied governments can and
should do is to lay down the rules under
which German democracy can govern itself.
Allied occupation forces should be limited
to a number sufficient to see those rules are
obeyed.

But the question for us will be, what force
is needed to make certain that Germany does
not rearm as it did after the first world
war? Our proposal for a treaty with the ma-
jor powers to enforce for twenty-five or even
forty years the demilitarization plan finally
agreed upon in the peace settlement would
have made possible a smaller army of oc-
cupation. For enforcement, we could rely
more upon a force of trained inspectors and
less upon the infantry.

ACTION JUDGED BY PERFORMANCE

For instance, if an automobile factory, in
violation of the treaty, converted its
machinery to the production of weapons of
war, inspectors would report it to the Allied
Control Council. They would call upon the
German Government to stop the production
and to punish the offender. If the German
Government failed to comply, then the
Allied Nations would take steps to enforce
compliance by the German Government. Our
proposal for a treaty was not agreed to.

Security forces will probably have to
remain in Germany for a long period.
I want no misunderstanding. We will not
shirk our duty. We are not withdrawing.
As long as an occupation force is required in
Germany, the Army of the United States will
be a part of that occupation force.

The United States favors the early estab-
lishment of a provisional German Govern-
ment for Germany. Progress has been made
in the American Zone in developing local
and state self-government in Germany, and
the American Government believes that
similar progress is possible in all zones.

It is the view of the American Govern-
ment that the provisional government should
not be hand-picked by other governments
but should be a German National Council
composed of the democratically responsible

49

50

54

--- Page 32 ---
55

59

60

61

Ministers President or other chief officials
of the several states or provinces which have
been established in each of the four zones.

Subject to the reserved authority of the
Allied Control Council, the German National
Council should be responsible for the proper
functioning of the central administrative
agencies which should have adequate power
to ensure the administration of Germany as
an economic unit as was contemplated by the
Potsdam Agreement.

The German National Council should
also be charged with the preparation of a
draft of a federal constitution for Germany
which among other things should ensure the
democratic character of the new Germany
and the human rights and fundamental free-
doms of all its inhabitants.

After approval in principle by the Allied
Control Council, the proposed constitution
should be submitted to an elected convention
for final drafting and then submitted to the
German people for ratification.

While we shall insist that Germany shall
observe the principles of peace, good neigh-
borliness and humanity, we don’t want Ger-
many to become the satellite of any power
or powers or to live under a dictatorship,
foreign or domestic. The American people
hope to see a peaceful and democratic Ger-
many become and remain free and indepen-
dent. .

REVISION OF GERMAN BOUNDARIES

The time has also come to define the
boundaries of the new Germany.

Austria has already been recognized as a
free and independent country. Her temp-
orary and forced union with Germany was
not a happy event for either country and the
United States in convinced that it is in the
interest of both countries and the peace of
Europe that they their
separate ways.

At Potsdam specific areas which were a
part of Germany were provisionally assigned
to the Soviet Union and to Poland, subject
to the final decisions of the peace confer-
ences. At that time these areas were being

should pursue

29

held by the Soviet and Polish armies. We
were told that Germans in large numbers
were fleeing from these areas and that it
would in fact, because of the feelings aroused
by the war, be difficult to reorganize the
economic life of these areas if they were not
administered as integral parts, in the one
case, of the Soviet Union and, in the other,
of Poland.

The Heads of Government agreed to sup-
port at the peace settlement the proposal of
the ultimate transfer to the Soviet Union of
the City of Koenigsberg and the area ad-
jacent to it. Unless the Soviet Government
changes its views on the subject, we will
certainly stand by our agreement.

EASTERN FRONTIERS NOT FINAL

With regard to Silesia and other eastern
German areas, the assignment to Poland by
Russia for administrative purposes had taken
place before the Potsdam meeting. The
Heads of Government agreed that pending
the final determination of Poland’s western
frontier, Silesia and other eastern German
areas should be under the administration of
the Polish State and for such purposes
should not be considered as part of the
Soviet Zone of occupation in Germany.
However, as the Protocol of the Potsdam
Conference makes clear, the Heads of Gov-
ernment did not agree to support at the
peace settlement the cession of any par-
ticular area.

The Soviets and the Poles suffered greatly
at the hands of Hitler’s invading armies. As
a result of an agreement at Yalta, Poland
ceded to the Soviet Union territory east of
the Curzon Line. Because of this, Poland
asked for a revision of her northern and
western frontiers. The United States will
support a revision of these frontiers in
Poland’s favor. However, the extent of the
area to be ceded to Poland must be deter-
mined when the final settlement is agreed
upon.

The United States does not feel that it can
deny to France, which has been invaded
three times by Germany in seventy years,

62

63

64

--- Page 33 ---
66

67

68

69

its claim to the Saar territory whose economy
has long been closely linked with France.
Of course, if the Saar territory is integrated
with France, she should readjust her rep-
aration claims against Germany.

Except as here indicated, the United
States will not support any encroachment
on territory which is indisputable German
or any division of Germany which is not
genuinely desired by the people concerned.
So far as the United States is aware the
people of the Ruhr and the Rhineland desire
to remain united with the rest of Germany.
And the United States will not oppose their
desire.

While the people of the Ruhr were the
last to succumb to Nazism, without the re-
sources of the Ruhr, Nazism could never
have threatened the world. Never again
must those resources be used for destructive
purposes. They must be used to rebuild a
free and peaceful Germany and a free and
peaceful Europe.

CONTROL FOR SECURITY PURPOSES

The United States will favor such control
over the whole of Germany, including the
Ruhr and Rhineland, as may be necessary
for security purposes. It will help to enforce
those controls. But it will not favor any
controls that would subject the Ruhr and
Rhineland to political domination or mani-
pulation of outside powers.

The German people are now feeling the
devastating effects of the war which Hitler
and his minions brought upon the world.
Other people felt those devastating effects
long before they were brought home to the

German people.

The German people must realize that it
was Hitler and his minions who tortured
and exterminated innocent men, women and
children and sought with German arms to
dominate and degrade the world. It was
the massed, angered forces of humanity
which had to fight their way into Germany
to give the world the hope of freedom and
peace,

NO DESIRE TO ENSLAVE GERMANS

The American people who fought for free-
dom have no desire to enslave the German
people. The freedom Americans believe in
and fought for is a freedom which must be
shared with all willing to respect the free-
dom of others.

The United States has returned to Ger-

70

val

many practically all prisoners of war that ; 72

were in the United States. We are taking
prompt steps to return German prisoners of
war in our custody in other parts of the
world.

The United States cannot relieve Germany
from the hardships inflicted upon her by
the war her leaders started. But the United
States has no desire to increase those hard-
ships or to deny the German people an
opportunity to work their way out of those
hardships so long as they respect human
freedom and cling to the paths of peace.

The American people want to return the
government of Germany to the German
people. The American people want to help
the German people to win their way back to
an honorable place among the free and
peace-loving nations of the world.

CONCORDANCE

Topics and references made by Secretary Byrnes in his Stuttgart speech are indexed according to

paragraph numbers.

Aggression 4, 6, 11, 18, 30, 65, 67, 70, 73.
Agriculture 36.

Allied Control Council 12 21, 31, 32, 51, 55, 56.
Austria 60.

Boundaries 59-66.

British Zone 28.

Central German agencies 21, 34—37, 44, 54—55.
Coal 37, 38; Saar 65, Ruhr 66—68.
Communications 35.

Constitution 57.

Curzon Line 64.

Decentralization 45.

23

74

--- Page 34 ---
Demilitarization 8, 12, 13, 42, 48, 50.

Democracy 40, 43, 45, 47, 54 56, 58, 70, 71, 73.

Denazification 39, 42, 48. p

Economic unity 12, 15, 21, 24, 27-430, 33-37, 55—57.

Economy, balanced .22, 23; minimum 25; barriers 42.

Exports 15.

Finance 33, 34,

Food 36,

Foreign rule 10,3, 58, 68.

Foreign trade 15, 22, 23, 25, 37, 38.

Four Powers 8, 27—28, 41, 48, 49, 62, 63.

Four zones 34, 53, 54.

France 65.

Government of Germany 32, 39—41, 44—47, 53—56,
66.

Hardships on Germans 18, 30, 69, 73.

Imports 15, 22, 23.

Industry 12—17, 25, 37.

Inflation 33, 34.

Inspectors of demilitarization 50.

Judgment of Allied activities 48.

Koenigsberg 62.

League of Nations 5.

Living standards 13, 17, 19, 38,

Militarism 10, 11, 30, 39, 50.

Nazism 11, 18, 30, 39, 43, 67.

Occupation 26, 36, 41, 42, 48—50, 52.

Peace settlement 8, 47, 50, 62—64.

Peaceful aims 4, 6—9, 73—74.

Poland 14, 61, 63, 64.

Political life 43, 45.

Postal services 35.

Potsdam Agreement 8, 12, 13, 15, 16, 20—22, 27,
35, 41, 43—45, 55, 61, 63.

Prisoners of war 72.

Rhineland 66, 68.

Ruhr 66—68.

Saar 65.

Security 26, 41, 50, 52, 68.

Silesia 36, 63.

Soviet Union 14, 61—64.

Soviet Zone 14, 63.

Steel 37, 38.

Transportation 35.

Unification, economic 12, 15, 21, 24, 27-30, 33—37,
55—57.

United Kingdom 28.

United Nations 6, 9.

United States 3.
Peace 4, 6—8, 58.
Policy 12, 20, 24, 27, 31, 40, 46—48, 52—54, 58,

64—66, 68, 71, 73.

Problems 31, 47, 50, 73.
Progress 5—6, 28—29, 34, 46—48, 53, 72.
Proposals 27—29, 50—52, 53-—57, 74.
Responsibilities 8, 12.
Warning to Germans 4.

USSR 14, 61—64.

US Zone 53.

Warning to Germans 4.

Western Allies 14.

Yalta 64.

Zonal trade 22, 24, 25; barriers 24—26, 35, 42.

GERMAN REACTIONS (Continued from page 22)

tween prices and wages, Der Neue Tag (Wei-
den) said: “On the one hand, wages (are)
too little to live on and to die on, and on the
other, there is a surplus of buying power of
70 billions with which fantastic prices are
paid for bacon, bread, butter, etc. It is time
to eliminate this disparity and put money
on a sound basis.”

* * *

Painting a gloomy picture of Germany, an
editorial in the Mittelbayerische Zeitung
(Regensburg) said: “The specter of un-
employment wields its whip . . . The rigidly
applied tax screw has a paralyzing effect on
initiative and enterprise. The security of
person and property is thrown into a terri-
fying light by the robbery of farms... As
into a small stable, masses of expellees are

crowding the small country, Jews whom
intolerant nationalism is driving from their
native homes are seeking refuge . . . a situa-
tion in which Hitler’s teachings could poison
the minds of large sections of the population
and distract the Germans from the path of
sound development. To deny the existence
of the same danger for the people of Bavaria
at this time would be a great mistake.”

Ea * *

Commenting on the order of the Allied
Control Council for a census on 20 October,
the Donau Kurier (Ingolstadt) said, “Under
the ruins of the Hitler Reich lies also our
statistics. Let one not say, that compared
to other evils this is a minor one. A people
without statistics is like a man who has lost
his memory and with it, his Ego.”

--- Page 35 ---
DANA (Continued from page 10)
units from North Africa, through Sicily,
Ttaly and France and finally into Germany.
Later publication was shifted to a German
printing plant in Bad Nauheim.

When the Frankfurter Rundschau began
publishing late in July 1945 as the first
licensed newspaper in the US Zone, it was
serviced with news copy by motor courier.
However, shortly afterwards the Hellschrei-
ber was set up with a reclaimed German
transmitter. Each newly licensed newspaper
was equipped with a Hellschreiber receiver
and the flow of news copy was speeded.
More bureaus were established in Nurem-
berg, Stuttgart and Heidelberg, and they
initiated their own systems for collecting
news reports in their territories. Late in the
fall of 1945 a teletype circuit was construct-
ed connecting the bureaus with the main
office, whose operation expanded until it oc-
cupied the entire hotel building in Bad
Nauheim and adjoining buildings. Most of
the stories were written at first in English
and translated into German, but now the
bulk of the daily file is written originlly
in German.

WORLD NEWS FILE INCREASED

To increase the world news file, arrange-
ments were made with the Associated Press,
United Press and International News Serv-
ice, leading American news wire services,
to furnish DANA with the news reports in
exchange for German news from DANA.
Recently these agencies were given per-
mission to negotiate directly with the Ger-
man licensed newspapers. AP and now UP
are serving a number of the papers. INS
and Reuters are serving DANA.

One of the major difficulties experienced
by the American editor of DANA was the
finding of politically acceptable German
personnel who could be depended upon to
carry out the standards and techniques of
DANA. The German press had been thor-
oughly nazified under Hitler and Goeb-
bels. Almost every person who had been
connected with newspaper work during the
12 years before the advent of occupation

32

had Nazi affiliations which automatically
barred him from continuing in any capacity
with informational services.

A few experienced German newspapermen
who had opposed Nazism had not been
following their profession during most of
the Hitler regime. Others had been living
in foreign countries and out of contact with
internal German conditions for a long time.
Some had suffered in concentration camps
and were in poor health. The individual
newspapers were in need of trained person-
nel as much as the wire service.

EX-PW'S AMONG PERSONNEL

DANA found some of its most promising
Germans among returned prisoners of war.
Some of these had not been Nazis, as they
had been in the army during much of the
Nazi rule. Also they had had opportunity
to study democratic ways and become orient-
ed in the policies and practices instituted
by Military Government. However, the ma-
jority of applicants for work with DANA
had no experience in reporting or editing.
They had to be taught the fundamentals of
writing as well as American techniques while
they were working on the central office
desks or in the various bureaus.

The American editors and bureau chiefs,
all of whom had many years of experience
in reporting and editing on American news-
papers, became teachers in addition to their
administrative and news-gathering. duties.
They also had to overcome. the differences
in languages to make themselves sufficiently
explicit to see that copy was handled in
the manner in which MG policies. and Amer-
ican newspaper practices dictated it should
be handled.

Even with the approach of the licensing
of DANA to the German publishers, the
work of the American personnel is continu-
ing. About 15 of them, with some 15 months
of experience in building up and training
the German personnel of DANA, will be-
come press control supervisiors to see that
their German successors carry out the pol-
icies and practices that have been instituted.