--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 57 / 2 SEPTEMBER 1946

oe

PRISON CHAPEL SERVICE : e ,

a « z

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
aoe MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
: : FRIEDBERG
ag QBERTAUNUS|

ROTEN BURG

NESBADEN

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU|
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD

BRUCHSAU

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

IN MATION

- OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Private Searches for Missing Personnel or American bodies
Return of Dependents’ Household Goods to the United States .
Overtime Pay for WD Civilian Employees .

Use of Penicillin for Treatment of Special Cases

Bulk Declarations of Certain Surplus Spare Parts and Expendable
Supplies in Overseas Commands

Confinement of Personnel Awaiting Trial. . . . 2. . . ,
Property of PWs and Civilian Internees .-. 2 2. 2 2 1 es
Unauthorized Possession of Chemical Warfare Ammunition .
Discontinuance of ATC Service .

Support of the International Military Tribunal

Naming of Military Installations .

SOPs as of 15 Aug 1946.

Educational Facilities in Switzerland

Personal Cable and Radio Service on the Continent

Use of Files on Personalities In the InformationField byPublic Prosecutors

AGAM-PM 293.9
15 July 1946, WOAGO

AG 414 GDS-AGO
25 July 1946, USFET

AG 240 (CO)
2 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 700 MCH-AGO
2 August 1946, USFET

AG 400.7 GDS-AGO
6 August 1946, USFET

AGPE-R-A 250.3
7 August 1946, WDAGO

AG 383.9 PMG-AGO
10 August 1946, USFET

AG 471 GDS-AGO
10 August 1946, USFET

AG 322 RYT-AGO
13 August 1946, USFET

AG 230 GDS-AGO
13 August 1946, USFET

AG 600.9 GAP-AGQ
14 August 1946, USFET

AG 461 AGL
15 August 1946, USFET

AG 350 GAP-AGO
14 August 1946, USFET

AG 311.22 AGM-AGO
16 August 1946, USFET

AG 350.05 (IA)
23 August 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly fo the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

PRISON CHAPEL SERVICE — The picture
on this week's cover shows a view of the
chapel at the Butzback civilian prison in Butz-
back, Greater Hesse. The chapel is so ar-
ranged that each participant in the service
is virtually segregated and cannot see, or be
seen by, anyone but the priest or minister
who stands on a high pulpit in front of the
congregation. (See “Prisons in the US Zone”
on page 4 of this issue.)

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Sydney Souter, Chief of the Prisons Branch,
Legal Division, OMGUS, wrote the article
“Prisons in the US Zone.” Mr. Souter was
superintendent of the New Jersey Reforma-
ory, Annandale, N. J. before joining OMGUS
last June.

The material for the article “Glass” was
furnished by John M. Warde, Chief of the
Ceramics and Glass Section, Economic Divi-
sion, OMGUS. Prior to coming to OMGUS,
Mr. Warde saw service as a battery officer
in North Africa, Sicily, Italy, France and
Germany.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Prisons in the US Zone

Glass

Central German Agencies: Part 4
Suggestion Campaign Awards
Removed as Reparations

Education Mission
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
STATION LIST

PAGE

11
15
16
19

24
24
26
28

--- Page 7 ---
A blonde youth clicked his heels and
stood at rigid attention as you entered
his cell. A minute previously, when you
squinted through the little peephole in the
heavy wooden door, he was looking forlornly
at the blue sky framed in the high barred
window of his confinement chamber. Out-
wardly he appeared docile and gave the im-
pression of being. contrite. He seemed grateful
for your “Guten Tag.” If he’s like his com-
patriots he is a model of deportment and
gives no trouble to, his jailers. Behind his
servility may be genuine humility or perhaps
a cunning mind that contrived some
outrageous crime. His offense could have
ranged from the unlawful possession of .
American cigarettes to the deliberate murder
of another human’ being. Whatever he did
and however long he is forced to stay, his
lot is difficult and he receives the barest
comforts of life. He is in a German prison.

PREVAILING CONDITIONS

There are no “country clubs” among*the
28 major prisons and the 222 jails super-
vised by Military Government in the US
Zone. Most of them are old, dungeon-like,
bleak and depressing. Some are converted
monasteries, built centuries ago, with thick
walls and other structural features reminis-
cent of medieval history. Modern plumbing
is almost unknown, central heating is seldom
provided, and all utilities are in keeping
with the period ideas of their architecture.
All institutions have one common problem:
They are full to ‘overflowing with prisoners
of every description, age and extent of
criminality. <a

The lack of space in German prisons

(Left) A prisoner is shown work~
ing in the shoe repair shop of the
Butzback prison. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 8 ---
constitutes an ever increasing problem; one
that could be a hazard to public health and
safety, and one which is not likely to diminish
for a long time if the present accelerated
pace of courts continues. Military Govern-
ment, cognizant of the personal welfare of
the prisoner and his potential influence on
the society to which he will return, has taken
steps to correct overcrowding. Recently, two
institutions have been acquired, giving a
modicum of relief in Bavaria and Greater
Hesse. The latter Land’s new installation
will provide, for the first time since the
occupation, exclusive facilities for the in-
carceration of women offenders.

INSPECTORS CORRECT INJUSTICES

Military Government, aware of its goal to
teach democracy by example as well as by
precept, has in a number of instances com-
bined the forces of the Prison, Public Safety
and Inspector General’s sections to make
certain the rights of disenfranchised felons
are not completely abrogated. Nutritional
teams have explored the food situation and
except in isolated cases have found no
significant loss of weight. Inspections by
trained American officers have uncovered
and corrected many injustices, and their re-
commendations have put in process modern
practices that will improve the total picture.

Present conditions in prisons have come
about through a combination of unusual
circumstances. Some buildings have been
bombed and others are utilized for different
purposes; supplies are not being manufactur-
ed, and worn-out equipment is not being
replaced. New situations require new laws;
new laws like old ones are violated, and

(Right) A prisoner is shown kneel-
ing on one of the individua
pews at the Butzback civilian
prison, Butzback, Greater Hesse.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 9 ---
through the mills of enforcement grinds the
grist of criminal offenders.

In the meanwhile Land directors and
prison wardens, many of whom have had no
previous prison-administration experience,
are trying courageously to meet their new
and arduous responsibilities. Training schools
for prison officers have been established at
the prisons of Bernau, Bavaria; Ludwigs-
burg, ‘Wuerttemberg-Baden; and Rocken-
berg, Greater Hesse. Three-week classes for
30 guards give instruction in principles and
methods of treatment of prisoners. Selection
of personnel to attend these schools is made
by the Land director under supervision of
MG. At the schools, a new philosophy of
treatment is taught that is the antithesis of
the Nazi concept of punishment. The old
eye-for-an-eye and tooth-for-a-tooth theory
of punishment is scrapped in favor of one
based on broad priciples of re-education.

To get the prisons operating in accordance
with the best practices of American penology

(Below) A view of a cell block at the Butzback civilian prison.

is extremely difficult, but not a hopeless
proposition. Working and associating with
the dregs of society is not usually a very
pleasant task; consequently able Germans,
many of whom have suffered through years
of war, are unwilling to align themselves
with a mode of life that by its nature is
depressing and sad. They prefer to turn to
happier types of employment.

IMPROVEMENT ANTICIPATED

Improvement is made slowly, and as the
corps of prison workers acquires confidence
and gets additional help it is believed they
will make the progress of which they are
capable. Already an unfenced, unwalled
training school for juveniles has been
established in Bavaria. Here an earnest
determination to develop discipline within
the individual rather than impose it from
without and above has met with marked
success. New industries are being developed
and most prisoners are usefully and gainfully

(Continued on page 18)

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 10 ---
D

Ga from German factories is
famed for its expert workmanship and
good quality, whether the sample be a piece
of decorative Bohemian glass or the finely
ground lens of a camera. Prior to the war
Germany was the third largest glass pro-
ducing nation of the world, surpassed only
by the United States and Russia. Her normal
output of between 600,000 and 800,000
metric tons a year was enough to supply
domestic needs and maintain a steady flow
of exports.

As with other large-scale industries, Ger-
man glass manufacturing and distribution
was highly cartelized. The financial structure
extended into several other European glass-
producing countries. Government control was
effected through the trade organization
“Wirtschaftsgruppe Glas Industrie,” which
MG dissolved at the beginning of the oc-
cupation.

VARIED GLASS PRODUCTS

The products of the glass industry are
many and various. Optical glass includes
lenses of all uses — from cameras, binoculars.
and telescopes to ordinary spectacles. Scientif-
ic glass includes all varieties, sizes and
shapes of laboratory ware as well as heat
and chemical resisting and medical glass.
Hollow glass consists of bottles, preserving

and packing glass, household and decorative
articles, as well as various chemical and
technical hollow glasses and illuminating
and electro-technical glass. Still another
branch of the industry works on processed
and finished glass such as safety glass and
glass fiber.

FIELD OF OPTICAL LENSES

In the very highly specialized field of
optical lenses the estimated output of
finished optical glass in 1941 was about 500
metric tons, largely binoculars, tanksighting
telescopes, range finders, height finders and
gun sights for the German armed forces.
Before the war Germany was nearly in-
dependent of outside sources of supply of
raw optical glass, and provided a steady
flow of finished optical products to the rest
of the world. In 1938, export trade in glass
amounted to 50 million marks.

Practically all of the raw optical glass
and high grade scientific optical glass came
from one single firm, Jenaer Glaswerk,
Schott und Genossen, at Jena in Thuringia,
now in the Soviet Zone. This company was
affiliated with the Carl Zeiss firm of Jena
which was in turn connected with Zeiss Ikon
AG, Dresden, also in the Soviet Zone. Some
other plants capable of producting white
Plate glass used for lower grades of optical

--- Page 11 ---
Table 1: Production, Consumption and Export of Glass, 1938—1944

Period Production Consumption Export
RM 1000 | Metric Tons || RM 1000 | Metric Tons || RM 1000 | Metric Tons
Flat Glass
1938 315,800 71,209 _ 11,708 ~—
1939 435,300 93,625 _ 14,940 ~—
1940 467,900 106,152 _ 13,000 —
1941 484,300 118,588 _ 15,596 —
1942 406,200 29,960* — 4,550* —
1943 592.790 — 439,014 _ 57,675
1944 484,980 _ 428,975 —_ 41,797
Hollow Glass 7
1938 . 265,462° |. 633,550 217,978: 47,484
1939 || “297,270 ‘| 698,261 || 268,730 29,773 |
1940 316,100 ||. :- 795,584 300,362 15,736
1941 |) 341,442 |*- 887,582 || 308,620 18,250
1942 296,743 721,678. ; || 305,209 ~ 29,500 :
1943. — 377,547** || 310,273 33,840
“1944 ° — 661,566 || 290,523 | 24,460
Processed and Finished Glass
1938 . 95,945: |’ 57,765
1939 124,990 38,201
‘1940 164,010 30,016
1941 © ~ 209,654 24,483
1942 223,752 28,900
1943 Total -Conbumption and Export RM 275,238, 000.
. 1944 Not available

* Figures available for .one .quarter only.
** Figures for second half of year only.

glass are located in the other zones, but their

output was not important.

The center of the German’ scientific “glass
industry was also located «in Thuringia.
About three-quarters of al] German laboratory

glassware was. produced by Jenaer Glas-
werke, Schott and Genossen at. Jena. Other
works manufacturing scientific glass' were
located ‘elsewhere in Germany, but their out-
put.was small by comparison:

--- Page 12 ---
Estimated figures for normal pre-war out-
put of all scientific glass was about 35,000
metric tons annually, and during wartime
the production of searchlight reflectors was
about 1,200 metric tons. The export figures
for 1938 totaled 3,079 metric tons which
were made up of medical and chemical
hollow glass, surgical and other instruments
and thermometers.

Production, consumption, and export
figures for the other types of glass from
1938 to 1944 are shown in Table 1.

The geographic distribution of the flat
glass, hollow glass, and processed and
finished glass industry by zones of oc-
cupation and including territory now Polish
is given in Table 2.

PRODUCTION DURING WAR

During the war, Nazi standardization pro-
grams were instituted, and restrictions were
placed on the manufacture of many glass-
ware items. There was increased production
of such essential glass products as optical
glass, scientific glass for research and
industrial use, certain types of domestic and
hollow glass and glass fiber, while pro-
duction of building and decorative glass was
curtailed. The sale of barometers, cameras,
and microscopes, to civilians was banned in
1942.

Sheet glass was standardized at a uniform
thickness of 2 mm, and window glass sub-

stitutes of transparent plastics were made
available to conserve glass. Scientific hollow
glass was rigidly controlled by a licensing
system. Standardization plans reduced the
available thermometer types from 50 to 3,
and thermos flask varieties from 700 to 10.
Bottle production was restricted to 36 types
of colored bottles, 21 varieties of white
bottles, and nine styles of beer bottles.
Container glass, packing glass, and flagon
production was also subjected to standardiza-
tion restrictions.

REDUCTION IN LIGHT BULB TYPES

_ The number of electric light bulb types
was reduced from 2200 to 466, and sur-
render of old bulbs was required for the
purchase of new. Only 28 household glass
items including tumblers, beer and wine
glasses, mugs, plates and dishes were au-
thorized, and distribution was controlled to
give preference to such “vulnerable districts”
as army depots, hospitals and_ hotels.

Shortages of coal and soda ash during the
war years reportedly handicapped glass pro-
duction. Glass production in the US Zone
had ceased entirely when the occupation
commenced because of lack of transportation,
coal and raw material, though glass pro-
ductive capacity in the Zone had suffered
less than a four percent loss due to war
damage.

With the coopefation of US Army en-
gineers, MG took immediate action on the

Table 2: Geographic Distribution of Glass Industry

Percent of Percent of Percent of
Zone Flat Glass Hollow Glass Processed and
Industry * Industry * Finished Glass
Industry *
US 13.3 58 83
British 52.1 39.9 21.2
French 6.8 4.9 0.4
Soviet 16.4 47.9 45.0
Polish Territory 114 6.5 251

* Based on 1943 data, neglecting removals and war damages occuring after that year.

9

--- Page 13 ---
Table 3: Principal Glass Producers, US Zone

Est. Monthly
Firm Location Products Capacity in
Metric Tons
Flat Glass
Deutsche Tafelglas AG Weiden, Bavaria Sheet Glass 2,700
Vereinigte Glaswerke Aachen | Mannheim-Waldhof | Cast Glass 1,500
L. Lamberts Glasfabrik Holenbrunn Cast Glass 450
Spiegelglas Union AG Plate Glass
Hollow Glass
Amberger Flaschenhuetten AG | Amberg Beverage Bottles 557
Spessarter Hohlglaswerke GmbH! Lohr Packing Cases 250
Hammerschmidt Glashuetten- Klein Tettau Packing Cases 143
werke
Bayrische Flaschen Glashuetten| Steinbach a. Wald | Beverage Bottles 446
werke
Glaswerke Tettaugrund GmbH | Tettau Packing Cases 259
Deutsche Spiegelglas AG Mitterteich Illuminating Glass 350
Optical Glass
Finished and Processed Glass
Heraeus Quarizglas GmbH Hanau/Main Hollow Glass Pro-
cessing
Siebert & Kuhn Oberkaufungen Hollow Glass Pro-
bei Kassel cessing
Spiegelglas Union AG Fuerth/Bavaria Flat Glass Finishing
C & E Mahla GmbH Lauf Glass Fibre
Glaswerke Warmensteinach ‘Warmensteinach Glass ‘Ware

critical shortage of flat glass for building
purpose in the Zone by putting into operation
two plants capable of producing this badly
needed material. The Deutsche Tafelglas AG,
at Weiden in Bavaria, which with a rated
monthly output of 450,000 square meters of
sheet glass was the largest flat glass
producing plant in the Zone, was placed in
operation on 18 September 1945. Three
weeks later the Mannheim-Waldhof works

10

of the Vereinigte Glaswerk Aachen began
manufacturing cast glass with a rated
monthly output of 100,000 square meters of
cast glass 7 mm thick. These two glass plants
are the only factories of any importance in
the US Zone now operating at a higher rate
than 1938.

All told there are eight plants in the US
Zone, capable of producing flat glass at an
estimated monthly capacity of 6,000 metric

(Continued on page 18)

--- Page 14 ---
T proposed Central German Administra-
tive Department of Industry will, subject
to the directives of the Allied Control Author-
ity, assume and be responsible for the exer-
cise throughout Germany of such central
powers and controls over industrial plan-
ning, and administration as will be assigned
to it by the Allied Control Authority in
accordance with the objective of Military
Government and the Berlin Protocol. It has
the double function of an advisory and exec-
utive body. In the initial stage its functions
will be predominantly of an advisory char-
acter; as close supervision and direction by
the Allied Control Authority are reduced, its
executive functions will increase. The De-
partment’s activity will be limited, as far as
possible to planning, while the actual exe-
cution of the program will be left to the
Laender and Provincial governments. It will,
however, be responsible for its execution and
will, therefore, have supervisory jurisdiction.

Under the German Empire, governmental
control of economic matters was, on the

11

whole, not centralized, but in accordance with
the federal character of the Reich, was left
to the administration of the various Laender.
No central Reich authority for economic
affairs existed before the first World War.
Only during the war was a centralized
system of industry control adopted, and al-
location and distribution of raw materials
and foodstuffs were handled by various war
agencies and war corporations.

REICH MINISTRY OF ECONOMICS

The Reich Ministry of Economics, establish-
ed under the Weimar Republic, exercised
only limited functions. Most economic mat-
ters remained under the jurisdiction of the
various Laender. No regional and local ad-
ministrative machinery of the Ministry was
in existence. The Ministry was, however,
responsible for the Reich’s commercial policy
and international trade agreements (together
with the Foreign Office); nationwide sta-
tistics; foreign exchange control; supervision
of cartels and other matters. Certain functions

--- Page 15 ---
were, however, not handled directly by the
Ministry itself, but delegated to special agen-
cies which operated under the supervision
of the Ministry. For example, statistics were
handled by the Statistische Reichsamt.

CENTRALIZATION UNDER NAZIS

Under the Nazis; economic matters were
rigidly, centralized and the powers of the
Reich Ministry greatly expanded. Land
governments, under the Reorganization Law
of the Reich of 1934, were subordinated to
the Reich Government. In addition to mak-
ing the Land Ministries, for all practical
purposes, regional agencies of the Reich Min-
istries, all voluntary organizations of trade
and industry, such as chambers of commerce
and eniployers’ associations, were placed
under the jurisdiction of the Reich Ministry
of Economics. An elaborate system of raw
material and commodity controls was initiat-
ed as early as 1934 and placed under the
direction of that Ministry. In the fall of
1934, most of the industrial. responsibilities
of the Economics Ministry were transferred
to the Reich Ministry of Armament and War
Production which had already established
additional controls over German industry.
Both ministries availed themselves of a com-
prehensive system of regional and local
agencies.

RESPONSIBILITIES OUTLINED

It is now proposed to establish a De-
partment of Industry which will be respon-
sible for industrial statistics, estimates of
production requirements, and the formu-
lation of over-all production programs. In
the exercise of the latter functions, it will
prepare and submit programs for the trans-
formation of manufacturing from a war to
a peace economy in the spirit of the Berlin
Protocol; will coordinate approved produc-
tion programs and recommendations in
consultation with the Department of Foreign
Trade concerning resources and production
available for exports as well as imports re-
quired for the production program, and will
recommend industrial programs and practices
to the Allied Control Authority for the im-

12

- plementation of Military Government leg-
‘islation and also the enactment of legislation

as necessary. It will make recommendations
to the Allied Control Authority concerning
the allocations of fuel, electricity, raw mater-
ials, semi-finished products and other com-
ponents, and suballocate these to the Laender
or appropriate units. It will assist in the
solution of production problems which affect
more than one economic district and interfere
with the production program. It will exer-
cise staff supervision and coordination over
approved production programs, transmitting
them with appropriate directives for exe-
cution to the Laender or other appsopriate
economic units, and assure that there shall
be no developments contrary to the provi-
sions or spirit of the Berlin Protocol.

JURISDICTION OF ACA

As the supreme authority, the Allied Con-
trol Authority will exercise such powers of
legislation, supervision and review as may
be necessary to fulfill the purposes of the
occupation.

Under the policies and instructions of the
Industry Department, the Land Ministries of
Economics, or comparable regional economic
agencies, will organize and staff themselves
as necessary to carry out the functions as-
signed them. They will screen requirements
for fuel, electricity, raw material, semi-
finished goods and other components and
submit them to the Department, and will
suballocate commodilies to the various claim-
ants; authorize the reactivation or con-
tinuance of production within territory, as-
sure compliance with Allied objectives and
directives, and make recommendations with
respect to industrial programs and practices
and any necessary legislation. They will
report to the Department resources and pro-
duction available for export and import re-
quirements for approved production pro-
grams and will solve pressing production
problems within their territories. Other
functions may be imposed on them by the
Department. Local units under the Laender
or economic districts will perform such oper-

--- Page 16 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
INDUSTRY _

——
—

hones a

ating functions as may be assigned them.
The Department will be under the control
of the Allied Control Authority. In order
effectively to exercise this control, a Quadri-
partite Bureau for Industry should be estab-
lished within the Allied Control Authority
under the Industry Committee and should be
charged with full responsibility for the su-
pervision of the German Central Agency. The
Bureau should be given definitive executive
powers within established policies, so that
supervision of the operation of the German
Central Agencies can be effectively carried
out, and the Bureau should be authorized to
communicate directly with other sections of
the Allied Control Authority on matters
relating to industry, such as foreign trade,
internal commerce, and food and agriculture.
The relationship between the Department
and Allied Control Authority will gradually
change. During the initial stage of organi-
zation and staffing, specific and detailed
supervision and direction by the Allied Bu-

wa

13

——

reau for Industry of the Control Council will
be necessary. During a second stage, the
Industry Department will have to secure the
assent of the Allied Control Authority in all
major policy questions, and all functions as-
signed to it by the Allied Control Authority
will be reviewed at regular intervals.

FINAL STAGE OF CONTROL

During the final stage, controls may be li-
mited to a broad review of policy matters.
Routine matters which fall within the frame
of delegated powers will be reported to and
reviewed by the Allied Bureau at certain
stated intervals. Policy matters will be refer-
red prior to execution, to the Allied Bureau,
which is authorized by the Allied Control
Authority to decide all issues except those of
highest policy importance. These will be
referred by the Allied Bureau to the Control
Council through the Coordinating Committee
for specific decision.

The organization plan for the Central In-

--- Page 17 ---
dustry Department is based on the assump-
tion that it will be rudimentary at the outset
but sufficiently functionalized to permit or-
ganized transfer of functions from compa-
rable units of the Industry Branches of Zonal
administrations. The Department will be
headed by a Secretary of State responsible to
the Control Authority through the Allied In-
dustry Bureau and responsible for the con-
duct of the Department and for the activ-
ities of the Laender governments within the
Department’s sphere of central activity.
Under the Secretary there will be three
offices and two divisions; Office of Special
Assistants, Office of Internal Administration,
Central Office for Planning and Program-
ming and Central Statistics, Industrial Pro-
duction Division, and Fuel and Public Util-
ities Division. The Industrial Production
Division consists of the following branches:
Metals, Chemicals, Machinery and Optics,
Building Industries, Textiles, and Consumer
Goods. Fuel and Public Utilities Division
will have branches for Coal and Non-metallic
Mining, Oil, Electricity, and Gas.

RELATIONSHIP TO LAENDER

So far as possible, the relations of the De-
partment to the Laender will be advisory
and supervisory in character. Direct control
of Laender and other local operations will
be limited by narrowly defined powers to be
prescribed by the Allied Control Authority.
If proposals affect more than one Land or
district, the Department will prescribe spe-
cific solutions and will be responsible for
their implementation. It is not intended that
the Department is to have local or field
offices, and the Department will function
through the Ministry of Economics in each
Land on purely technical matters through in-
dustrial sections of the Landeswirtschafts-
aemter or comparable agencies.

The proposed organization calls for seven
top management positions, including the Sec-
retary of State, his deputy, and the chiefs
of offices and divisions. Six months after
initial organization, the Central Industry De-
partment will require a minimum of 200 per-
sons of whom 50 would be top management

14

personnel and high ranking professional as-
sistants. However, management positions will
be filled at the discretion of the Secretary of
State or his representative from lists of prop-
erly screened candidates approved by the
Control Council or representatives thereof.

Headquarters will be located in Berlin and
there will be no field offices.

REQUIREMENTS OF HEADQUARTERS

For the headquarters conventional office
space with reasonable utilities and transpor-
tation connection in Berlin is the only re-
quirement. Initially 30,000 square feet of
floor space without allowance for corridors
and dead space, or 60,000 s.uare feet to pro-
vide for such allowance plus minimum stor-
age and expansion facilities will be needed.

Installation costs cannot be ascertained un-
til such time as available facilities are known.
Operating costs are estimated for the first
year at RM 750,000 for personnel and
RM 250,000 for material. Whether or not
the Department itself produces revenue, it is
recommended that its expenses shall be car-
ried out of general revenues to be provided
for the Central Departments and any reve-
nues which accrue to the Central Cashier
Office shall not be earmarked for specific
purposes,
exist.

No current assets are known to

Omgus Broadcasts

To speed the dissemination of Military
Government announcements, directives and
information to all units throughout the US
Zone of Germany, OMGUS is inaugurating
short daily broadcasts.

Starting 3 September and continuing each
afternoon at 1500 hours, Monday through
Friday, the broadcasts will be transmitted
over Radio Munich on the short wave length
of 5302.5 kilocycles.

The purpose of these official OMGUS
broadcasts is to keep MG personnel abreast
of official developments concerning their
work and to insure immediate distribution of
policy changes. All material is unclassified
and available for release at the time of the
broadcast.

--- Page 18 ---
FOUR AWARDS ANNOUNCED IN MG’S
EMPLOYEE SUGGESTION CAMPAIGN

Sreeestions for standardization of tele-
phone message forms, use of hardwater
softeners, extension of shoe repair service,
and formation of a stenographic pool won
awards for four persons during August in
the OMGUS Employee Suggestions and
Awards Program.

Morton D. Weiss of the Reports and Sta-
tistics Section, Economics Division, proposed
the “Standardization ,of Phone Message
Forms,” which has been adopted by the Ad-
jutant General’s Office, OMGUS. Pointing
out that small scraps of paper, sometimes
used in taking important messages, are liable
to be lost, Mr. Weiss suggested that a stand-
ard form for such messages be made out of
scrap paper and bound into pads. A Class IV
award of $25 was presented him by Lt. Col.
H. G. Jepson, acting chairman of the Em-
ployees Suggestions and Awards Committee.

“Repair of EM’s and EW’s civilian shoes”
was suggested by lst Sgt. Maurice Lindskog
of the Adjutant’s Section, Hg. Command,
OMGUS. He wrote that “All EM and EW
should be permitted the opportunity to have
their civilian shoes repaired; and the chance
to select either leather, rubber or composition
soles. The shoe repair shop would be con-
ducted on the same basis as the present shop
which handles repairs for officers and
civilians.”

ACTION TAKEN ON SUGGESTION

Sgt. Lindskog’s suggestion resulted in the
provision of additional facilities for the
repair of EM’s and EW’s civilian shoes, and
won for him a Class IV award of $25, the
equivalent of which is available in mer-
chandise from the PX or Gift Shop. Pres-
entation was made by Capt. E. M. Alrich,
commanding officer of Company A, Hq. De-
tachment.

The suggestion “Use of hardwater soft-
eners to save waste of soaps, shampoos and

15

detergents” was made by Col. Vernum C.
Stevens, Executive Officer, Manpower Di-
vision. The presentation of a Class IV award
of $25 in merchandise from the PX was made
by Leo R. Werts, Director of the Manpower
Division. Action has been taken by the PX
Officer to requisition water softeners for sale
at the PX.

FORM USED BY ENTRANT

Colonel Stevens submitted his suggestion
as follows:

“Problem: Cleaning agents such as soap,
shampoo and detergents are wasted in home
uses. The residue left in wash water on
clothes causes many allergic people trouble;
it also coats and blocks the sewer system.

“Facts: German water sources contain
high quantities of calcium and magnesium
salts. The use of improper water softeners
on hard water soaps is often ineffective due
to variations in the salt content. The use of
coconut or copra soaps, shampoos or shaving
creams affects allergic individuals. The short
tenure of the users makes the purchase of
a good water softening system unfeasible.

“Solution: (1) Have water from different
areas sampled by the American University of
Berlin who will then publish a list of the
softeners and cleaners recommended for
each area. (2) Have sales stores and PX’s
feature items listed as a result of the Uni-
versity study.”

R. O. Quill of the Finance Division, OM-
GUS, proposed “Formation of Stenographic
Pool,” which won him a Class V award. A
letter of appreciation was sent him by Lt.
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Military Gov-
ernor. The Personnel Office, OMGUS, said
when the arrival of stenographic personnel
from the United States is sufficiently
adequate, the system as described by Mr.
Quill will be put into practice.

--- Page 19 ---
[wa

iz

pole

.

-

sh

ee eee

LS cease

--- Page 20 ---
TF pictures on this and the opposite page

show activity at the electric power plant
in Gendorf, Germany, being diamantled for
shipment as reparations to the Soviet Union.
The project, which will take fourteen months
to complete, is being carried out by German
engineers under the direction of the Repara-
tions Section, Industry Branch, OMG Bav-
aria. Each dismantled unit is marked and
then transported on special flat cars to Bre-
men where several units at a time are loaded

on ships for waterborne’ movement to final
destination. The Gendorf plant, built during
the period 1939—1942, has a capacity of
60,000 horsepower and is large enough to
supply a town of 250,000 with electric power.

(Opposite page, left) A massive coal pulverizer is set
into place on a flat car; (center) a German civilian
worker stencils a packed crate of machinery; (below)
equipment is lashed to a flat car; (above) view of

the Gendorf plant. Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 21 ---
PRISONS IN THE US ZONE

employed.

Prison confinement strips the offender of
many privileges, but the spiritual fabric
remains his own. All institutions have chapels
presided over by religious leaders. Each
house of worship is separated from the main
prison or is set off within as an isolated
sanctuary. The Butzback prison in Greater
Hesse has a picturesque church which seats
330 persons in individual stalls, so arranged
that each participant of the service is virtu-
ally segregated and cannot see, or be seen
by, anyone but the priest or minister, who
stands on a high pulpit in front of the con-
gregation. The effect, however, is marred
only by the necessary presence of three
guards who watch from strategically located
elevated platforms.

The prisons are a study in contrasts. For
instance, some prisoners work on farms away
from the institution from Monday to Satur-
day with a maximum of freedom, then are
returned to the institution for the week-end
and locked securely in their cells.

Striking progress is notable where German

GLASS (Continued from page 10)

tons. The principal flat glass producers are
listed in Table 3, together with the im-
portant firms producing other varieties of
glass.

Although hollow glass products were
formerly produced by 24 plants in the US
Zone, no plant has so far started production.
Present production capacity is estimated to
be about 2,500 metric tons monthly. It is
contemplated that the manufacture of house-
hold glass and bottles will commence shortly.
Electric light bulb blanks are not being made
in the US Zone at present, but their pro-
duction is planned within the next few
months at Deutsche Spiegelglas AG in Mit-
terteich, Bavaria, after reconversion is com-
pleted. There is also no production of radio
tube blanks or other electrotechnical hollow

18

(Continued from page 6)

wardens have had administrative experience
or have quickly learned American techniques
of management. Industries have been devel-
oped, and products of the craftmanship of
the prisoners compare favorably with those
produced elsewhere. As the general economy
becomes stronger and materials and supplies
become available, the prisons will make
greater strides in their productive endeavors.

In a prison, hope never quite fades, but it
often becomes very dim. Rehabilitation, re-
education, reformation is like conversion. It
is an intrinsic thing. It must come from
within the one affected. It cannot be pres-
cribed and compounded into a dose that
when taken in sufficient quantities guarantees
a cure. Recognizing this principle, Military
Government, in its supervision of German
prisons, and working within the frame work
of existing facilities, is introducing American
techniques of management and establishing
acceptable standards in the hope that the
democratic process may get a foothold even
on the lowest rung of the social ladder.

glass, though capacity is available in the
Zone.

Of the 106 plants manufacturing the
various products classified as processed and
finished glass, 58 are equipped to do flat
glass finishing; of the rest, 18 can do hollow
glass processing and 14 hollow glass
finishing. There are also three plants for
safety glass production, five that make glass
fiber, and eight for other glassware. The
last reported wartime output for the US
Zone was about RM 3,750,000 in 1943. As
yet there has been no postwar production in
these plants.

With the increasing necessity of building
up German exports to pay for food, however,
it is expected that every source of saleable
glass merchandise will be fully explored and
developed.

--- Page 22 ---
he program of re-education in Germany
can only be accomplished by the German
people themselves.” Dr. John W. Taylor,
Chief of the Education and Religious Affairs
Branch, I A & C Division, OMGUS, told the
group of American educators who arrived in
Berlin last week prior to making a Zone-wide
study of MG’s education program.
“We reject the idea of active re-education,”
Dr. Taylor said. “Our interpretation of

active education would mean bringing in
50 million textbooks, 50,000 teachers and
doing the job of education ourselves. Such
‘spoon-feeding’ of a nation by another nation

we consider educationally unsound.” Dr. Tay-
lor pointed out that we hope to achieve our
objective in the education field through con-
trol of basic school reforms, educational law,
constitutional provisions, and selection of
top-level German education control personnel
who are able and willing to re-educate their
own people and to help bring about
a constructive reform of German education
in the democratic spirit. ‘With the small
number of highly qualified professional edu-
cators on our staff we can only hope to re-
orient those Germans now in control of Ger-
man re-education.”

Dr. Taylor’s remarks were part of the gen-
eral briefing given to the American edu-
cators during their four-day preliminary

US Zone.

(Left) Spectators view a display
of the work being done by
Military Government's Education
Branch. The display has been set
up at OMGUS for the benefit
* of the education mission from
the US currently touring the
Photo by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 23 ---
visit to Berlin. Dr. M. E. Muelder of the
Control Office, OMGUS, oriented the group
on the organization of OMGUS and
the Allied Control Authority; Mr. Henry
Parkman, Chief of the Civil Administration
Division, on German governmental organi-
zation; and Major M. K. Wilson, Chief of
the Denazification Section, Public Safety
Branch, I A & C Division, on Military Gov-
ernment and Denazification.

PURPOSE OF MISSION

The educators are spending a month in
Germany at the invitation of Lt. Gen. Lucius
D. Clay, Deputy Military Governor, to make
constructive criticism of Military Govern-
ment’s policy and administration of the pro-
gram for the control of German education.

Following the general briefing in Berlin
the mission left for Wiesbaden, the first stop
in their Zone-wide tour. It will visit various
types of schools and universities, confer with
German Ministers of Education and their
staffs and meet with teachers and students of
all school types. It will meet the Ministers
President and German governmental, educa-
tional and cultural leaders. The last week
of the 30-day stay in Germany will be spent
in Berlin during which time the mission will
prepare a report on their findings and make

recommendations which will be submitted to
Military Government.

Members of the group, selected by the War
and State Department include Dr. George
F. Zook, President of the American Council on
Education, Washington, D. C., Chairman of
President Truman’s National Commission on
Higher Education; Dr. Bess Goodykoontz,
Director, Elementary Education Division of
US Office of Education; Dr. Henry H. Hill,
President, George Peabody College for Teach-
ers, Nashville, Tennessee, President, Amer-
ican Association of School Administrators;
Dr. Paul Limbert, President of the YMCA
College, Springfield, Mass.; Dr. Earl
J. McGrath, Dean, College of Liberal Arts,
University of Iowa; Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr,
Professor of Applied Christianity, Union
Theological Seminary; the Rev. Felix New-
ton Pitt, Superintendent of Catholic Schools,
Louisville, Ky.; Mr. Lawrence Rogin, Director
of Education, Textile Worker’s Union,
C.1.0.; Dr. Thomas V. Smith, Professor of
Philosophy, University of Chicago and mem-
ber of American Education Mission to Japan;
and Dr. Helen C. White, President of the
American Association of University Women.
Dr. Eugene N. Anderson, Occupied Areas
Division, Department of State, is accompa-
nying the Mission as a State Department
observer.

Plant Allocated to French

The Gross Kraftwerke, a power plant
located in Neckarau, near Mannheim, has
been allocated to France by the Inter-Allied
Reparations Agency. This is one of the first
suballocations among the western nations.

Built underground with heavy concrete
slabs, the plant represents the culmination
of thirty years research. It is the first of its
kind in Germany and was put into operation
by the Nazis as an auxiliary in case a sur-
face plant was bombed out. This plant was
capable of generating 32,000 KW at 22,000
volts, sufficient industrial electric power to
light a city of 200,000.

Construction of the plant, which cost RM

20

8,000,000, commenced in 1938 and was com-
pleted in 1941. The cost of construction was
provided for as early as 1926 when a loan
of 6,300,000 gold marks was obtained in the
United States, and secured by mortage on
the entire plant including the original in-
stallation. Stock in the firm is owned by the
Mannheim Electric Company and the Baden
Werke of Karlsruhe. The value of the in-
stallation in the United States would be ap-
proximately $12,000,000.

The plant will net the French reparations
account about 4,000,000 RM according to
estimates of the Reparations Division, which
are based on a formula set up by the Quadri-
partite Commission at Berlin.

--- Page 24 ---
Travel Barriers Relaxed by
New British-US Agreement

A move toward the elimination of the bar-
riers between the British and US Zones went
into effect this week with the relaxing of re-
strictions on travel between the two zones of
Germany.

The agreement, ratified by the British and
US authorities, provides that German na-
tionals and non-German civilians who are
lawful residents of the British or US Zones
may travel between or within the two zones
without restriction but subject to specific
conditions.

The provisions of this agreement, however,
do not apply to Displaced Persons, Stateless
Persons and persecutees. Nor do they apply
to Berlin, where quadripartite passes are
still required.

The purpose of the agreement is to pro-
mote interzonal trade and commerce, to facil-
itate the travel of Germans in the interest of
Military Government and to allow travel on
compassionate grounds, but not to encourage
travel for recreational or pleasure purposes.
Present regulations on permanent change of
residence are not affected by its terms.

It provides that after 1 September the civ-
ilian travelers covered in the British and
US Zones need not obtain any pass or per-
mission to travel between the two zones.
They must, however, comply with all exist-
ing regulations governing movement of prop-
erty and goods and with all censorship reg-
ulations.

The four conditions specified in the agree-
ment for these travelers are:

Each Control Authority concerned may
prohibit or prevent, at its discretion, the
entry into or departure from its respective
zones of occupation of any individual, and
restrictions on interzonal travel may be
specifically imposed on given categories
of persons.

21

Interzonal travel shall be for la

purposes and by lawful routes.

Any person traveling between the zones
or in a zone of which he is not a resident
shall carry on his person the official doc-
ument required in the zone of his residence.
Such identity document shall be produced
on demand by any civil or military official.

Persons visiting another zone shall
comply with all ordinances and regulations
in force in that zone, particularly those
applicable to change of residence.

The agreement also provides that the
traveler’s emergency food ration cards is-
sued in one zone will be accepted and honor-
ed in the other zone, and that persons engag-
ed in interzonal travel as authorized in the
agreement may purchase petroleum products
for their automobile vehicles, subject to ra-
tioning regulations of the zone or area‘being
visited.

At the same time, the agreement relaxes
travel restrictions for members of the Oc-
cupying Forces, Control Organizations and
Military Government of the British and US
Zones in that no prior clearance will be re-
quired for those travelers provided they
possess valid travel orders issued by their
own zone authority.

US-British Plan Explained

The proposed operation of the economic
cooperation between the British and US
Zones was explained by the British Deputy
Military Governor at the recent meeting in
Hamburg of the Zonal Advisory Council, a
group of outstanding German leaders who
assist the British authorities in the civil ad-
ministration in the British Zone.

Pointing out that the aim of the British
Government was still to seek economic unity
for Germany as a whole and then a political
fusion of all the zones into a new Germany,
he explained that the joint British-US plan
of administration would be set up for food

--- Page 25 ---
and agriculture, internal and foreign trade,
industry, finance and transportation, and

possibly eventually for post and telegraph
services.

These would be German administrative
agencies whose personnel would be recruited
from both zones. They would operate under
directives laid down by the British and
American staffs in Berlin. Within the scope
of these directives, the German administra-
tions would have full executive powers, and
would pass on instructions of their own
through German channels. At lower levels
of these administrations, British and Amer-
ican officers would be available to give ad-
vice.

The administrations, the British Deputy
Military Governor explained, would not all
be set up in the same place. The one for
trade and industry would in the first in-
stance be set up at Minden, British Zone,
and the food and agriculture administration,
and possibly the one for finance, would be

set up at Stutigart in Wuerttemberg-Baden
of the US Zone.

Allied Control Authority

Law No. 34 on the Dissolution of the
Wehrmacht and Law No. 35 on the Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Machinery in Labor
Conflicts were signed by the Allied Control
Council, effective as of 26 August.

Law No. 34 stipulates that the German
war ministries and all German land, naval
and air forces with all their organizations,
staff and institutions including general staff,
officers corps, reserve corps, military schools,
war veterans organizations, and all other
military and quasi-military organizations are
considered disbanded and declared illegal.

Reformation or reconstruction of any of
these agencies is also declared illegal. The
law further stipulates that all property own-
ed by these organizations is subject to con-
fiscation by order of the Zone Commander,
and that any person violating any provision
of this law shall be liable to criminal pros-
ecution before Military Government court.

22

Law No. 35, supplementing Law No. 21,
concludes Allied policy for the establishment
of agencies and comprehensive machinery
for the orderly disposition of all classes of
labor disputes. The law makes voluntary
arbitration procedures available to German
employers’ organizations and trade unions
for prevention or peaceful settlement of con-
flicts arising out of negotiations or contracts,
new provisions or modifications of existing
contracts, and other matters not within the
jurisdiction of the labor court.

Export of Chinaware

An export program for Bavarian china-
ware, expected to obtain a revenue ten times
greater than the expense for imported mater-
ials, is to be put into operation immediately.

From the 24 porcelain manufacturing
plants in operation in Bavaria with a ca-
pacity of 1,430 tons a month, 25 percent of
the output will go for export. The balance
will go for occupation and domestic require-
ments. The exports are to be handled by the
US Commercial Company, an agency of the
US Government.

Much of the raw materials, such as coal,
china clay, gypsum, and fine gold, come from
Czechoslovakia. An allocation of dollars from
the proceeds of exports has been made for
the import of the raw materials.

The program was prepared by the Society
of German Ceramics Manufactures under the
supervision of the Economics
OMGUS, and OMG for Bavaria. Concur-
rence has been given by the Laenderrat.

Division,

Transit Air Mail Shipments

Quadripartite approval has been given for
transit air mail shipments through Germany
from Great Britain, France and the United
States to eastern European countries. No
financial responsibility will be borne by the
German Reichspost and necessary transporta-
tion and other arrangements must be com-
pleted by countries desiring to initiate this
service.

--- Page 26 ---
ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

All newspapers in the US Zone have been
authorized, providing newsprint is available,
to put out extra editions when the Nurem-
berg trial verdicts are announced. These will
be the first “extras” to be authorized in the
US Zone.

American consulates in the US Zone have
been authorized by an OMGUS directive to
perform temporarily informal services on an
ad hoc basis on behalf of the Philippine Gov-
ernment.

A revised allocation, effective 20 August,
increased the weekly coal tonnage from the
Ruhr for rail movement from 150,829 to
183,351 tons. There was a corresponding
decrease in tonnage allocated for movement
via inland waterways.

US ZONE GAS SERVICE

Eight times as many consumers in the
Zone now have gas service as in October
1945. The number of gas plants in operation
now are three and one-half times more than
last October and the production of gas is
five and one-half times greater.

The dismantling of three and one-half
plants approved as advance reparations to
the Soviet Union is being accelerated by the
use of displaced person as well as German
labor. The work is reported ahead of sched-
ule.

Two youth periodicals have been given
permission for increases in their circulation
in view of their value in the reeducation of
German youth. The circulation of “Horizont”
was increased from 50,000 to 150,000 and
of “Pinguin” from 50,000 to 250,000.

The Karlsruhe Technische Hochschule has
taken a five-year lease on the former Tele-
graphenkaserne in Karlsruhe, Wuerttemberg-
Baden. The work of repairing and remodel-
ing the buildings was begun in order to have
them ready for occupancy in November.

Persons having a bona fide interest in
conducting private searches for missing
American personnel or the bodies of Amer-
ican war dead are to receive maximum as-

23

sistance under a War Department direc-
tive. Unclassified information and data can
be funished these persons to aid in their
search.

Gas generators have been installed on 383
US two and one-half ton trucks now operat-
ing in the German transport economy. The
gas-generator installations on these vehicles
have proved successful and a program is
being initiated to procure additional genera-
tors for this purpose.

TIRE PRODUCTION AIDED

Tire-producing firms in the US Zone re-
ceived sufficient buna from the other three
zones to increase tire production 65 percent
in July as compared with that of June.
Shortages of coal and labor have handicap-
ped the processing of available buna.

Approximately 900 teachers are to be
graduated next year from seven teachers
colleges in Wuerttemberg-Baden on comple-
tion of a special one-year course being con-
ducted to alleviate the need of teachers in
the Land. In Bavaria, 4,795 teacher-candi-
dates are being trained in sate and denom-
inational teacher training schools.

YOUTH BOOK EXPOSITION

An International Youth Book Exposition
is being held in the Wurttemberg-Land Li-
brary in Stuttgart. More than 4,000 chil-
dren’s book and drawings from 14 countries
are on display.

A reviewing board, consisting of licensees,
professional men and members of theatrical
and musical unions, is being set up in Stutt-
gart to screen applications for theatrical
and musical positions which do not requir
licenses. .

The Bremen Board of Education in con-
junction with the Labor Office has put into
operation a plan under which 4,700 teachers
and pupils from Bremen schools are engaged
in clearing debris from the city during their
summer vacation.

--- Page 27 ---
Food Situation Emphasized
By US Zone Licensed Press

Food stories comprised the major German
news during the week of 11—18 August, ac-
cording to the weekly analysis of the Ger-
man press by the Office of the Director of
Information Control, OMGUS. The increase
in the bread ration, the arrival of CARE
packages, the record harvest in the United
States, follow-up stories on the World Food
Conference and UNRRA were widely dis-
played.

Editorial expressions concerning food were
of a more critical tone. The Fuldaer Volks-
zeitung said, “There can be no doubt that
the cause of the present disinclination to
work and of the present apathy regarding
questions of economic and political recon-
struction can be found in the lack of suffi-
cient food.” Der Morgen (Mannheim) like-
wise remarked that the still declining work-
ing morale cannot be raised without finding
a possibility “of granting participation in
the use of production to those who really

work.”
* * *

While the Paris Peace Conference con-
tinued prominently in the news columns,
there was little editorial comment. The
Fraenkische Landeszeitung (Ansbach), in
deploring by implication the fact that Ger-
many has no representation at the con-
ference, stressed, “A completely disarmed
but economically strong and united Germany
is a more significant factor in world politics
than the Germany would have been which
might have concluded the war with the
checkmate-peace hoped for by Goering and
his consorts. Conquests do not make a people

strong.”
* * *

In connection with special attention given
by all newspapers in the US Zone to atomic
energy and the Baruch report to UN, the

forces of nature can be controlled for the
salvation of man only if they receive their
impulses from moral considerations.... In-
voluntarily the word of Rabindranath
Tagore occur to us when he was proudly
shown all the technical attainments during
his European visit and asked his opinion
about them. That was in 1920. He answered
with the apparently confusing sentence:
‘The machines will destroy ‘you.’ Would
you laugh proudly and disbelievingly to-
day?”
* * *

“War turns today against its instigators,”
declared a Fraenkische Landeszeitung edi-
torial commenting on the Nuremberg trials.
“Hitherto a few have started the wars and
many fought them. Many died.and a few
lived and harvested not seldom fame, wealth
and honor. If war criminals come before
the bar of justice not only in the case of
Germany, if these methods are applied in
the future to war criminals of other nations,
this circumstance might pen up the warlike
spirit of all responsible statesmen... and
for this reason there must be above the
nations a permanent Center of Law which
will maintain the peace under all circums-

tances.”
* * *

The anniversary of the Weimar Consti-
tution was noted in a feature article in the
Stutigarter Zeitung which pointed out that
the constitution was given to a people
unused to democracy and it was unjust to
blame democracy for the eventual fate of
the constitution. The article added: “We
hope the experiences of the 14 years under
the Weimar Constitution and the 12 years
without it will be utilized in the creation of
the new constitutions.”

In addition to the Peace Conference, the
German press published accounts of leading

--- Page 28 ---
world news such as the intensified struggle
in Palestine, the Soviet note to Turkey con-
cerning the Dardanelles and the possibility
of civil war in China. The death of H. G.
‘Wells was widely reported and some notice
was given to the anniversary of V-J Day.

SPD Program

The recent Social Democrat Party con-
vention received wide play in Berlin news-
papers, especially the SPD organs. The
“Socialdemocrat” listed the party’s program
in an appeal to Berliners for support.

The paper said the party first notes that
there are two main tasks which must be
realized: The securing of the material exis-
tence of the Berliners and the securing of the
rights of man for everyone. To gain these
the party then lists the following demands:

“The Berlin population stand ‘steadfast
against any attempt to surpress its newly
gained political freedom .

“A proper holding of pnecaae not influ-
enced from any side.

“The exclusion of ‘all open’ and hidden
enemies of democracy from political ac-
tivity ..

“A Magistrat based on the will of the
majority of the population... A clear sep-
aration between the powers of the forth-
coming town council and the new Magistrat.

“The setting up of a uniform economic
plan for Berlin which guarantees full
employment...

“Immediate measures to prévent all
threats of existence, composed of inadequate
housing conditions, insufficient food, poor
clothing...

“An equalization of. the sharing of the
hardships of the war....and a just punish-
ment of those responsible for it...

“A free development of youth organ-
izations...

“Social security for all people unable to
work and aged persons... A stronger par-
ticipation of women in public .....”

Noting that the fulfillment of these de-
mands is dependent to a high degree on the
Allies, the party then requests the immediate

25

cancellation of the sector boundaries, a uni-
form supply plan, a more free and un-
obstructed traffic with the other zones,
security measures for personal liberty and
assurance that everyone arrested for political
reasons be brought before an Allied court in
the shortest time possible, protection in the
forthcoming voting campaign of free ex-
pression of opinion. objective criticism, and
safeguarding of the attitude of political
parties.

Critical of Constitution

Discussing the proposed draft constitution
for Bavaria, the Tagesspiegel noted that
paragraph 18 provides that the government
of the state can request the public be ex-
cluded from negotiations of the Land Par-
liament. ‘This paragraph,” declared the
paper, “indicates fear of the public. It
shouldn’t be too easy for the government to
exclude the public, for one day the govern-
ment could misuse this paragraph. The fact
that democracy means open criticism must
be again and again stressed in Germany.”

The paper observed that paragraph 49
provides that if the people demand a plebis-
cite on some subject the Land Parliament
can take almost a year determining the details.

“Is it wise,” asked the paper, “to preserve
a plebiscite in the frigidaire of parliamentary
consideration for one year? ... A plebiscite
thas no value if the parties and others can
cripple it by delaying tactics.”

Regarding paragraph 92, the paper de-
clared that one is truly astounded to read
“a declaration on birth rate acceleration.”
The paper referred to sentences which state
that? . . . children are the most valuable
assets of a’ people” . “all girls will be
trained at the expense of the state in their
duties as mothers, above all taking care of
infants, educating children and doing house-
work.”

“Why must German girls be drilled in
their mother duties by the state?” asked the
paper, pointing out that one gets the im-
pression that the German Bavarian girl has
to fulfill a special mission in life.

--- Page 29 ---
US Position on World’s Oil
Supply Approved by Press

The first American press reaction to US
proposals for international cooperation in
development of world oil, as expressed by
State Department officials in a radio broad-
cast, voiced support of the idea and urged
prompt follow-up steps.

The participants in the broadcast pointed
out that the Anglo-American oil agreement
was a start toward international oil coopera-
tion, but emphasized that the agreement pro-
vided only a good statement of principles.
These principles should be extended under
UN to those who are willing to accept them
and should be implemented in such a way as
to assure orderly production and distribution
of the world’s oil in the future.

The editorials also praised the Department
for its frank presentation of facts on the
US oil position and its effect on US diplo-
macy. Some editorials urged immediate steps
to insure an adequate US oil supply at all
times.

The Washington Post said, “A hopeful de-
velopment in the US foreign policy is the
expressed determination of State Department
officials to press for United Nations control
over the development of the world’s oil re-
sources. If war is to be prevented, causes of
war must be removed, and uncontrolled com-
petition for the world’s oil supply is cer-
tainly a potential cause of war...

“Until such an international authority is set
up, we have no choice but to defend contrac-
tual rights of our nationals in the oil busi-
ness... We believe the irritating disputes
will be settled, but a fair settlement will
come more quickly if we demonstrate . . .
that we support international action to re-
move power politics from international oil.”

The Philadelphia Inquirer, saying the
principle in the US proposal “should be
pressed vigorously,” added: “No one can

26

would assuredly remove all dangers of war.
But that course would remove or greatly
relieve one of its greatest present-day caus-
es... Perils in an unrestrained struggle
for the world’s oil are so great and so mani-
fest that some equitable means of achieving
a fair system of control and distribution must
be found, for the safety of all nations, large
and small.”

The New York Herald Tribune said, “If
the scramble for oil is to be avoided some
form of international control is essential.
The State Department advocates such a con-
trol, under the United Nations ... Uni-
lateral action ... is too dangerous in an
integrated world.”

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch declared,
“The State Department broadcast . . . makes
clear one of the basic rivalries among na-
tions. It confesses that this country, once the
richest oil reserve of the world, must now look
elsewhere for its needs. It shows that Russia
is in the same boat. And everyone knows
that oil is the basis for national security.”

Peaceful Europe

In a recent broadcast over CBS, Lyman
Bryson, news comentato?, said, “If Germany
can be kept peaceful, there is a fair chance
that all of Europe can be kept peaceful. If
Germany can be made prosperous and peace-
ful at the same time, the European economy
can be healthy again . . .

“The American policy in Europe is not
easy to describe because we are evidently
not serious in carrying out any policy, and
our actions are open to severe criticism from
all observers. Here at home, it seems the
American people are no longer much in-
terested in curing Germany of militarism and
evil ambitions. We seem to be indifferent,
and the critics of our operations say that it

--- Page 30 ---
is beginning to make very littlé difference
what policy we have since we are doing
almost nothing to enforce’our plans. These
critics point to the fact that we show no
interest in maintaining in Europe an Army
good enough or big enough to make our
wishes respected or even carry out a different
program.

“It may be that these critics are too severe.
It’s no more than fair to say that the Ame-
rican Military Government in Germany has
done well in getting schools and churches
and other peaceful constructive institutions
back to work in our zone. Whatever rules
we set up for the Germans to live by, there
is one influence that is bound to count heavily
in the success or failure of our teaching
democracy, it is the behavior of our occu-

pying Army.”
Words at Paris

Several leading United States newspapers,
while disappointed at the apparent slow
pace of the Paris Peace Conference, have said
in recent editorials that the “battle of words”
has served to bring conflicting views into
the open for clarification and eventual settle-
ment. US Secretary of State Byrnes’ speech
was called a firm and earnest statement of
American aims which expressed the Ameri-
can people’s attitude toward the task of
making peace.

The Birmingham (Ala.) News said, “There
has been little more than wrangling at the
conference ... The consequence is that
many Americans have gotten an impression
that the international situation has materially
worsened when as a matter of fact no such
change has taken place... There is ten-
sion between the West and the East which
is not doing the business of peacemaking any
good. But it is worse than folly — it is
stupid or hysterial — to translate the un-
satisfactory state of world affairs into an
assumption that war is in the offing ...
War can be avoided because we are going
to prove that a capitalist society like ours is
capable of removing the economic causes of
war. If we do that, if we preserve ourselves

27

* from boom and bust, if we establish the pro-

position that we are not afraid of communism
and communism need not be afraid of-us, the’
world will have gone far toward the elim-
ination of war from this planet.”

The Richmond (Va) Times-Dispatch declar-
ed, “There has been some plain speaking at
Paris which should stem the flow of recrim-
inations and prod the conference into more
fruitful action... Mr. Byrnes delivered a
deserved rebuke to the Russians for their
‘repeated abuse and misrepresentation’ of
United States. He spoke sternly but not pro-
vocatively. There was firmness but not bit-
terness in his remarks. It was a temperate
and dignified performance, but it carried the
force of simple eloquence ... There was
no self-righteousness in his speech. Rather it
was an earnest statement of American aims
and it expressed the attitude which our
people sincerely feel toward the task of mak-
ing peace.”

The New York Times asserted, “The con-
ference has already served a salutary pur-
pose by showing to the world just what the
issues are and where the sympathies of most
nations lie . . . That is what the Conference
of Paris has been called for—to bring the
issues before the world public and to let it be
the judge.”

Doing “Very Fine Job”

Praising the work of American. occupation
forces in “democratizing Germany,” Col.
Charles J. Barrett, Deputy Director of Eu-
ropean Civil Affairs, told the “Railsplitters”
Division Association in Cincinnati that “95
percent of the good things done in Germany
receive little publicity compared with things
of which we are not proud.”

Colonel Barrett, former Chief of Staff of
the 84th Infantry Division during its drive
from Normandy to the Elbe River, declared
that each time he visits the US Zone in Ger-
many he finds improvement.

“I. think we are doing a very fine job,
and I believe the Germans are taking it
seriously,” he asserted, according to the news
story in the Cincinnati Enquirer.

--- Page 31 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Wiirttemberg-Baden

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
erty Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Col W W Dawson

(APO 154)
Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford
Stuttgart Area
*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Boblingen Capt M P Ernst
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko, Jr
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Maj R A Morgen
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Capt R Forrest
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Niirtingen Ist Lt E Gramm
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen ist Lt U S Aiello
Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen Ist Lt C H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Capt K R Plessner
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj R H Stimson
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Ist Lt L. L. Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim 1st Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt B V Bloom
*LK Oehringen Oehringen 1st Lt M Korsun

* Liaison and -Security

28

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Capt R Urbach
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Maj R Lascoe _
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Lt Col A G Spitz
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt RN Tharp

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep) -
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hiinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolthagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagenn

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen

29

Col J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Fairloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed

Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

)

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt G E Schmoeker
Maj R A Gish

Lt Col J C Rose
Capt R O Didlo
Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

Co A

*SK/LK Wurzbur
*SK/LK Aschaffenbury,
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen
*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lohr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)
Munich

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzbur;
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt J T Hughes
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt Willard Seale
Maj Dunn

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt Col M C Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R W Kernidi
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Capt A G Grodzinski
Capt G E Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt W_W James
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt C Boden

Capt E E Kelly
Capt T F Griffin
1st Lt L K Owens
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt M B Jaeger
Capt I A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B

SK/LK Nurnberg
*SK/LK Bamberg
*SK/LK Bayreuth
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Neustadt-Coburg
*LK Kronach

*SK/LK Hof

*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Furth

*LK Lichtenfels

*LK Ebermannstadt

*LK Hochsfadt a. d. Aisch
*SK/LK Kulmbach

*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Neustadt
Kronach

Hof

Ansbach
Furth
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Munchberg

30

Col E M Haight

Lt Col A T Callicot
Lt Col J R Case

Lt Col S M Guild
Lt Col F Robie

Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund
Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R T Boyer
Capt C E Palmer
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt M G Stamatis
Maj R C Anderson

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forhheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hipolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Capt L De Ford
Maj T Cleary
Maj H W Zurn
Capt W W Russel
Capt R J Towle
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Lt Col J C Barnet
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt J J Carr
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
1Lt L W Dilzard

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen

*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainbur,

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a. d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainbur;
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
‘Wegscheid

31

Lt Col Hastings
Capt J W Bossert

“Maj Ganer

Maj H L Snapp

Maj R E Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek
Capt G L Millner
Ist Lt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Crowley
Maj E O Carlson
Capt L R Mariels
Capt D S Field

Capt R O Woodward
Maj H A Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt R M MacWorther
Lt Col C McMackin
Capt T O Rose

Ist Lt N Ugland

Lt Col G H Foster
Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj J B Clark

Capt M J Jarvis

Maj D L O’Roark
Maj T G Shakelford
Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Capt F Traynham
Maj L P Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj E Fichter

Capt A G Albert
Maj R T Coykendall
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson, Jr
Ist Lt G L ‘Thomas
Maj J J Maher, Jr
Lt Col J R Hector
Lt P A Nesbitt

Maj R E Levy

Maj J F Rey

Ist Lt K J Miller, Jr

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altoetting
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Toelz

*LK Aibling

*LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Donauwérth
*LK Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Partenkirchen
Ingolstadt
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz
Bad Aiblin
Fuerstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauworth
Gunzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 755)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO. 751)

Bremen
‘Wesermiinde

32

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col E Keller

Lt Col H E Blakeley
Capt W A Lovett
Capt V L Thom
Capt C A Larimer
Capt R H Necel
Maj M W Nitz

Lt Col J H Kelly
Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W_N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
Ist Lt CC Boatwright
Maj C A Rein

Capt O M Cole

Maj C E Carlsen
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Mawrence
Capt E J Pennetto
Maj L R Day

Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow

Capt C S Garber

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris

Maj J E Rhea

Maj R A Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Ist Lt E A Eaton
1st Lt H V Worthington
Ist Lt M W Tlepfer
Capt L A Proger
Capt W_F Bradley
Capt C L Hopkins
Capt J N Urtes

Capt F W Guzak
Capt J O Renalds
Maj A E Elliot

Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs