--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 52 / 29 JULY 1946

rs

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
OPF MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,
OBER =
LAHNKREIS

ey
OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU|
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
EIDELBERG MOSBACH
BRUCHSAL
HEILBRONN

ROTEN BURG

BOBLINGEN Frases

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

3

AS

|
ab

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Counterfeit Allied Military Marks

Travel fo England .

CROWCASS — Administration and Supervision

Regulation No. 2 under Military Government Law No. 2 — Change
12 to Title 23, Military Government Legislation .

First Enlisted Grade Vacancies .

Appointment of Second Lieutenants, AUS

Currency Exchange . . . . - s+ ee ee ee

Shipment of Pets from the US to the European Theater .

Directive for Implementation of Directorate of Transport Decision on

Uniform Nomenclature of Budget Headings for Transport .

Report of Captured Documents .

AG 125.7 GAP-AGO
2 July 1946, USFET

AG 210.482 GAP-AGS
3 July 1946, USFET

AG 322 GAP-AGO
4 July 1946, USFET

AG 014.12 (CO)
5 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 221,02 GAP-AGP
5 July 1946, USFET

Circular No. 100
6 July 1946, USFET

AG 123.7 FDD-AGO
6 July 1946, USFET

Circular No. 105
13 July 1946, USFET

AG 130 (TD)
15 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 381.3 (DI)
22 July 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
PAGE

OFFICIAL,INSTRUCTIONS _ 2

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
“Adult Education ee
Towards a Hee German Press : s : os ae
Economic Unity Proposal Presented by US. .
Gift Parcels from the US 11
Zeiss Ikon: < 3 14
=e ei aa Fewster is GERMAN REACTIONS. 12
Groipelies, or Uther pichraa of peochacty lating GENERAL my
manufactured by this concern see “Zeiss Ikon”
on page 14 of this issue. PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS 21
STATION LIST 24

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

“Towards a Free Press in Germany” is a
- condensation of the recent orientation lecture
‘delivered by Lt. Col. W. H. Kinard, deputy
director of Information Control, OMGUS.
A graduate of West Point in 1936, Colonel
Kinard taught economics, political science and
history at the Military Academy. During the
war, he served with the Psychological Warfare
Division and helped set up the 6870th DISCC
team for Bavaria. He has been with the Office
of the Director of Information Control since
last summer.

Herbert Maccoby, who prepared the article
“Adult Education,” is an education specialist -
in the Education and Religious Affairs Branch,
1A & C Division, OMGUS. A graduate of
Western Reserve University in 1943, Mr.
Maccoby served as an enlisted man in the

_ 44th Infantry Division during the war. Before
joining OMGUS a year ago, he was with the
Civil Affairs Regiment in Bad Homberg.

--- Page 7 ---
A group of men learn masonry at the trade
school operated by the Magistrat of Berlin

ne of the chief aims of Military

Government is to teach the Ger-
man people democratic principles and ways
of life and to show them the fallacies of
Nazi doctrines. Providing educational op-
portunities for adults through evening
schools, university extension courses and
residential high schools figures prominently
in MG plans for achieving this goal.

Adult education in Germany was encour-
aged after World War I by the Weimar
Constitution which stipulated that adult
education be’promoted by all levels of gov-
ernment “to give the citizens of the new
republic that equipment in knowledge and
in capacity to do their own thinking which
they must have in order to discharge their
civic duties and responsibilities.” The Nazis
also realized the importance of adult edu-
cation as a propaganda weapon, and when

Signal Corps Photo

they came to power in 1933, all popular
education was placed unconditionally at the
service of the Nazi State to form part of the
program for training “leaders.” Nazi statis-
tics for the period 1936 to 1945 indicate
that 52 million persons participated in the
lectures, courses, film demonstrations and

_ discussion groups held under the auspices of

the “Volksbildungswerk.”

STEPS TAKEN BY MG

On laying the groundwork for organiza-
tion of post-school educational institutions,
MG officials started by dissolving all former’
adult education establishments and screening
their directors, teachers, and textbooks. As °
far as this could be done schools were re-
opened, and at the present time twenty-nine
evening schools..for adults (Abend Volks- .
hochschule) are authorized to operate in the

--- Page 8 ---
US Zone, the Bremen Enclave and the US
Sector of Berlin. Approximately: thirty
thousand students attend ‘these schools. The
curricula include foreign languages, fine
arts, natural’ sciences, social sciences and
practical courses such as typing and steno-
graphy. Only a comparatively small percent-
age of the students, many of whom are
under twenty-five, are interested in social
sciences.

COMPANY-OPERATED SCHOOL

One. interesting development in adult
education is the combined Day and Evening
School for Adults established by the city-
owned Berlin Streetcar Company for its em-
ployees and their families. The various shops
and offices of the company, located in
several sections of the city, serve as class-
rooms where two-hour courses are given in
the morning and im»the evening.

A Yoting, People’s: HighSchool for per-
sons between the™ages of eighi¢emand

twenty-five has been formed in. Bremen.”

Each Senator: of the Bremen civil adminis-
“tration lectures on his own field of activity,
and prominent.men such as Heinrich ‘Wulff.
of the Bremen Teacher .Training Institute;
Hans Alfken, deputy chief of the Bremen

Labor Office: Withelm | ch, director of C
the art muséum; and “Wilhelm Kaisen, the
burgomaster, are giving a series of lectures
on” government, politics, current events,
errors in German history, ‘and youth in the:
professions and in economics. Another pro-
ject in that city is a four months’ rehabili- _
tation course for former members of the —
Hitler Jugend and of the Bund Deutscher
Maedchen who have been dismissed as
teachers or from teacher training institutions.

Wiesbaden, Frankfurt, arid the Neukoelln
District of the US Sector in Berlin have
evening schools which are primarily concern-”
ed with giving religious instruction.

HIGH SCHOOL FOR ADULTS i

On ‘31 ‘July, -the first: residential High’
School for Adults is scheduled to begin its
program at Comburg, near Schwaebisch Hall
in _Wuerttemberg. This school will offer
former German soldiers a two-month course

‘jin, political - aeedaa tion. ‘The program in-

the foremost. German: public officials ad
educators will address the students during

(Continued @n page 23)

Adults are instructed in carpentry at
thé’ Magistrat of Berlin's trade school

Signal Corps Photo:

--- Page 9 ---
TOWARDS
A FREE

GERMAN PRESS

oO” of the principal differences between
a totalitarian government and a dem-
ocracy lies in the field of information: ~ The
totalitarian government assumes the right of
directing and forming public opinion. It was
rélatively simple for the Nazis to: gain-suck
control over the German people, for even in
pre-Nazi Germany, the radio was state-
owned, the press was under pressure*fromi
political ‘parties, iid the’ Nazi Party had
 already..organized its own . Propaganda De-
partment: prior’ to 1933.

‘When the Nazis seized. power sim 1933 one
of their first steps..was.to-gain’ control over
all. fields--of information in Germany. To
preserve some forms of legality, certain
administrative measures weré set up by law:
the».Nazis usually took over information
media by-purchase, by decree inthe interest
of public safety, or by some combination of
the two.e The objéctives of their control
were: First, the total control of all intellec-
tual, political and artistic. output of the
nation: seconds*the caréfal selection and su-
pervision of all personnel engaged; and
third, a eontinual. check on public.reactions
in» Germany. - For-this purpose they included

not.only the;media. of press and radio, but
some of the. media which we. consider
entertainment, such: as theater, music, art,
photo; exhibits, ‘advertising -and».even tourist.
tradey : =

To accomplish these primary objectives
the Nazis proceeded to build the most. elabo=
rate machinery*the world has ever séen for
influencing»the mind of the people. ~The
result: Propaganda — complete, total,-in-
eseapable.

REORGANIZATION BY OMGUS

In order to undo the work of the Nazis
and to reestablish information-—media on a
democratic basis, OMGUS first promulgated
a law which forbade:all activity-on the-part
of Germans: in these fields, since all people
who were in positions where they were-able
to influence public opinion were ardent
Nazis».Secondly, inasmuch as in many cases
the military need still existed-for getting
news and instructions, both to the German
people and to.displaced’ persons, information
media-were~put.into operation. American
oecupation..authorities~ continue-to..operate
some of these-facilities.today on a mich

Pi

--- Page 10 ---
reduced scale, and to provide all kinds of
‘services to the developing German informa-
tion media. Thirdly, we hope to dispel the
average German’s ignorance with regard to
America, since ignorance breeds distrust and
unbelief. In addition, such services help the
Germans to rebuild their information services
on a democratic basis.

ACTIVITIES OUTLINED

In radio among other things, we are re-
transmitting radio programs from New York.
We are preparing new documentary films
and selecting some old ones to be shown
in schools and universities and to adult
groups, particularly on such subjects as
agriculture, medicine and science. We are
producing a German newsreel to give Ger-
mans a pictorial account of what is happen-
ing in Germany. We are bringing in orches-
tral music written by Americans. Plays by
US authors are being staged. Commercial
films are being shown in the theaters through-
out the US Zone in Germany. Press and
background material are being transmitted
to Germany for use by Germans. Books by
American authors are being published. These
services are for the most part furnished
directly to German newspaper publishers,
radio stations and book publishers. However,
we are ourselves producing some magazines
and one newspaper. The magazines are Die
Amerikanische Rundschau, which is an intel-
lectual review; Die Neue Auslese, which is
produced in cooperation with the British;
and Heute, a pictorial review similar to the
American magazines Look and Life. In-
formation Control also publishes a zone-wide
newspaper, Die Neue Zeitung, in an edition
of a million and a half copies.

At‘the same time we are trying to turn
over to responsible Germans the administra-
tion and operation of information fields. A
great deal of time and energy has been ex-
pended by Military Government in select-
ing newspaper, radio and theatrical special-
ists who are both technically competent and
politically qualified to hold jobs. Several
hundred such persons have been found and
have done a great deal toward reeducating

their fellow-Germans. It is planned that
these specialists will form a nucleus around
which full-trade organizations can form
along democratic lines. Future selections of
the people to man these organizations will
be done by the Germans themselves.

In order to give the Germans machinery
to make these selections, Information Control
officers have been meeting with the German
Council of Ministers-President to arrange
for the setting up of German bodies who
will license publishers, theatrical producers,
and similar personnel in each of the three
Laender, as Information Control has done in
the past. All the German licensing commis-
sions will be required to follow Military
Government policy, and all of their decisions
will be subject to review by Information
Control.

TEMPORARY BODIES

These licensing commissions are to be
temporary bodies, established to make sure
that none but the strongest anti-Nazis get
in a position where they can influence public
opinion through the press, radio or theater.
It is hoped that eventually we will reach
the situation in Germany which we enjoy in
the United States, where anyone may start
a newspaper or magazine, or publish a book,
and say anything he likes as long as he
complies with the general laws of the land.
This goal of a completely free press is still
several years away, however.

NEW PRESS LAW

The Council of Ministers-President is
drafting a law, to take the place of the Nazi
rulings of the Propaganda Ministry. The
purpose of this is not to muzzle the press,
but to protect the public from libel and false
and malicious information on the one hand,
and to protect the press from attempts by
the government or anyone else to interfere
with its freedom on the other. Just as the
press will not be allowed to circulate false
rumors, no German agency will be allowed
to tell the newspapers or magazines what
they can or cannot print. When the neces-
sary laws have been passed that will set up

--- Page 11 ---
these licensing commissions and put’ the
press law into effect, the Germans will make
decisions and do the work, but Information
Control will keep close check, will counter-
mand German orders when necessary, and
will assist with advice and information
wherever possible.

SHORTAGES IMPEDE PROGRESS

In turning a large part of this job over
to the Germans we are faced with various
shortages which have impeded progress
toward a free press and radio in Germany.
Most serious is the shortage of qualified per-
sonnel, which exists because anti-Nazis were
denied permission to work in this field dur-
ing the last 12 to 15 years, and most of
them who are professionally competent are
ill or very old, or have wasted away in con-
centration camps. There are few among the
younger people who are both professionally
competent and politically clean.

A great deal of attention has been paid to
developing younger people in this field. The
University of Munich has established a
School of Journalism, with 160 persons en-
rolled. Newspapers have established similar
training schools. It is not sufficient that a
German newspaper publisher have a clear
fragebogen, that he was not a member of
the Nazi Party. He must also have some
positive characteristics — he must be anti-
Nazi, democratically inclined, liberal in
views, and able to help in the job of reeduca-
tion. The other shortages are material ones
-— lead, zinc, ink, paper and book-binding
material are all lacking.

LICENSED PRESS

Germany does not yet have a free press.
In the first place, at the present time no one
can start a newspaper without a license. In
the US Zone, there are today 36 licensesd
German newspapers. Their circulation is ap-
proximately four and a quarter million.
Some of the newspapers are published two
times a week, some three times a week,
and one, Der Tagesspiegel in Berlin, six

times a week. The size of newspapers,
because of shortages, must necessarily be
limited. They are allowed twelve pages a
week, and the size of each issue is therefore
dependent upon the number of issues pub-
lished.

One cornerstone of democracy is a free
press, and one cornerstone of a free press is
a competitive press. This is not as yet pos-
sible, largely because the personnel and
material shortages place an almost automatic
ceiling on the number of papers which can
be produced. So far only one city, Frank-
furt, has two competing newspapers, but it
is hoped that within a matter of weeks,
two and perhaps three more cities will have
a second newspaper.

REQUIRED TO BE NON-PARTISAN

The German press is not yet free for
another reason —all newspapers are required
to be non-partisan. None represents the spe-
cial interest of any particular group, whether
social, economic, political, or religious. In
view of the limitations on the number and
size of newspapers it is absolutely neces-
sary that all groups receive equitable access
to available column space. Though no major
paper in the United States is subsidized by
a political party, many certainly reflect par-
ticular views, political and otherwise. As the
number of papers and the competitive press
grows in Germany, we will allow more and
more freedom to each newspaper to reflect
its own particular ideas. Until that time,
however, we must insure that they give
equitable treatment to all groups. At no time
will we allow the press in Germany to be
financially subsidized by any group.

Other major restrictions on the press in
Germany are contained in the directive from
Military Government: Newspapers cannot
print any material which tends to spread Nazi
or militaristic ideas and doctrines; they can-
not print material which tends to jeopardize
security of the occupying forces; they can-
not print material which constitutes hostile
discussion of the Allies or United Nations.
The enforcement is not done by censorship.
German newspapers are not censored. They

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 12 ---
INTERZONAL ECONOMIC UNITY
PROPOSAL PRESENTED BY US

he Potsdam Agreement provides that

“Certain essential central German ad-
ministrative departments, headed by state
secretaries, shall be established, particularly
in the field of finance, transport, com-
munications, foreign trade and industry,”
and that “During the period of occupation
Germany shall be treated as a single
economic unit.”

The United States has sought during the
past year to put into effect these pro-
visions of the Potsdam Agreement. These
efforts have been blocked because unanimity
has not been achieved on the Allied Control
Council: Both Franee and the USSR still
have important reservations concerning Ger-
man economic unity.

The United States announced this month
its determination to strive for attainment of
this aim by proposing cooperation in such
a program with the government of any other
occupying authority. Secretary of State
James F. Byrnes made public the proposal
at the four-power conference of foreign min-
isters in Paris. Gen. Joseph T. McNarney,
Military Governor of the US occupied areas
of Germany, repeated the invitation to the
other members of the Control Council in
Berlin.

BYRNES’ RADIO REPORT

Secretary Byrnes, in a nation-wide radio
report to the American people 15 June on
the results of the Paris conference, declared:
“It is no secret that the four-power control
of Germany on a zonal basis is not working
well....” He pointed out that “Germany
is being administered in four closed com-
partments, with the movement of people,
trade and ideas between the zones more
narrowly restricted than between most in-
dependent countries.”

Declaring that “none of the zones is self-

supporting” and that Germany “is threat-
ened with inflation and economic paralysis,”
Secretary Byrnes said the United States at
the Paris conference “proposed that the
Control Commission be instructed to
establish the central administrative agencies
necessary to administer Germany as an
economic unit, and to arrange for the
exchange of products between the zones and
for a balanced program of imports and ex-
ports.”

AMERICAN ATTITUDE

Asserting the United States was “unwil-
ling to share responsibility for the economic
paralysis and suffering we felt certain would
follow a continuance of present conditions
in Germany,” the American Secretary of
State announced, “As a last resort, we were
prepared to administer our zone in con-
junction with any one or more of the other
zones as an economic unit.” The British
expressed hope of concurrence, but no view
was expressed by the Soviets or the French.

Five days later, General McNarney made
the invitation at the meeting of the Allied
Control Council, saying: “The United
States Government has authorized its repre-
sentative on the Allied Control Council to
join with the representatives of any other
occupying power or powers in measures for
the treatment of our respective zones as an
economic unit, pending quadripartite agree-
ment....”

“While the United States would prefer
quadripartite agreement to implement the
Potsdam decision for the establishment of
central German administrative agencies for
Germany as a whole, its representative is
prepared to cooperate with the represent-
atives of any or all the other occupying
powers in Germany in establishing adminis-

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 13 ---


--- Page 14 ---
Re food packages to individual
\ Germans in the US Zone from rela-
tives and friends in the United States began
streaming through the port of Bremen early
this month to-provide additional foodstuffs
to supplement the presently restricted
rations,

Two distinctly separate systems for hand-
ling these relief packages are in operation.
One is: known as the one-way parcel post
service for delivering packages made up by
the senders in the United States. The other is
the distribution of standard. “ten-in-one”
parcels by the Cooperative for American
Remittances to Europe, Inc. (CARE).

The first shipment of the one-way parcel
post service passed through Bremen shortly
before 1 July, and by the middle of the
month three additional shipments had ar-
rived. These totaled more than 80,000 parcels,
destined for individuals living. in the US
occupied areas of Germany. ‘The operation
of this system is under the supervision of
the Communications Branch, I. A. & C.
Division, OMGUS.

HELPS EASE FOOD PROBLEM

The one-way parcel post service will help
ease the food problem for civilians living in
the Zone by allowing non-perishable food-
stuffs to be sent by individuals in the United
States. Other authorized articles include
clothing, soap, lawful medical supplies and
allied articles intended for the relief of
human suffering. Gift parcels are limited to
one parcel per week from’one sender to one
addressee. The maximum size authorized for
posting is 11 pounds in weight and 72 inches
in overall length and girth.

The first shipment. of ten-in-one relief
parcels, arriving 17 July at Bremen and
totaling 35,000 packages containing food,
soap and other items, was expedited to
central distribution points in the. US and
British Zones for delivery to recipients. The
food content in each package amounts to
about 40,000 calories.

OMGUS has given its full support to the

(Left) A German housewife opens a gift parcel
which was among the first shipment of packages
to arrive in Germany after parcel post service
was resumed from the US. Signal Corps Photo

11

program sponsored by CARE, a non-profit
organization embracing 24 US relief agen-
cies, in facilitating the delivery of the
packages to the US Zone. The complex task
of administration in the US Zone has been
delegated by OMGUS to the German Central
Committee for Voluntary Relief Supplies. A
similar committee is used by the British MG
in its Zone. ,

HOW PROGRAM OPERATES

Under the CARE program, an individual
in the United States pays the sum of $15
for delivery of a ten-in-one package to a
relative or friend in Germany. The sender
later is notified that the package has
reached its intented destination or, in the
event it cannot be delivered because of in-
correct mailing address or for some other
reason, the $15 is returned to the sender.
Orders are being accepted only within the
United States.

CARE has purchased approximately
3,000,000 surplus ten-in-one packages, each
weighing 49 pounds, of which 30 pounds is
food and the balance other essential house-
hold items. When these have been distributed
CARE will purchase either additional ten-
in-ones or a similar type of parcel in order
to maintain an uninterrupted flow of essen-
tial food and non-food items into Europe.
Besides Germany, CARE has contracted for
similar deliveries into Austria, -Czechoslo-
vakia, France, Holland, Finland, Norway,
Greece, Poland and Italy. Negotiations for
extension of the relief program in other
food-pinched areas in Europe are underway.

FIVE MENU COMPONENTS

The ten-in-one parcel, probably the most
popular of prepared rations issued by the
Army in World War II, derives its name
from the fact each is sufficient to feed ten
soldiers for one day. To provide a variety
in diet, the ten-in-ones were prepared in five
different menu components which include
various types of canned meats and meat com-
binations, cereals and biscuits, beverages and
non-food components like cigarettes, matches
and soap.

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 15 ---
Berlin Editorials Discuss
Political and Economic Unity

In a front page editorial on the discus-
sions in Paris regarding Germany’s future,
the French licensed Kurier observed that
“before the end of the Paris conference the
American Secretary of State made a last at-
tempt to obtain Molotov’s consent for the
formation of central administration organs
in order to make possible treatment of Ger-
many as an economic entity. He could be
sure of Great Britain’s consent beforehand
because Britain, with its immediate program
for German economy, had the same aim.”

The only alternative to central administra-
tion, declared the paper, seems to be Byrnes’
proposal to the other powers to unite their
zones with the American zone in economic
respects, for America will unite her zone
with any other in order to treat these zones
as an economic entity.

“Tt is a pity that this American proposal
was not discussed at the Paris conference,”
declared the paper, adding that only the
British foreign secretary has decided to
check these proposals immediately. “The
American proposal does not aim only at
preventing chaos in Germany, but also at
halting an autonomous development of any
zone.”

“Therefore Germany is uncertain whether
in the near future — that means before
winter — a partial economic merger between
the occupation areas will be realized ...,”
concluded the paper.

* * *

Neues Deutschland, Social Unity Party
organ in Berlin, expressed the hope that “the
political broadmindedness and experience of
the last three decades will be an important
factor in the settlement of the future po-
litical structure of Germany.”

“The economic and political dismember-
ment of Germany,” noted the paper, “would

12

the present fatal h
from the maintenance of these frontiers
would be increased by a final separation of
zones In the loopholes of the many
small splinter countries reaction would again
gather and strengthen itself, and the will for
a peaceful democratic order would have no
possibility for a free development in a con-
fusion of frontiers . . .”

Admitting they understand very well that
the victors want security against new Ger-
man aggression, the paper opposed any idea
of dismemberment of Germany. It pointed
out that the loose union of sovereign states
did not prevent aggression against France
in 1870, nor did the “true federalistic state
of Bismarck with its 25 foreign peoples
prevent World War I.”

“Not the political structure, not federalism
nor particularism guarantees security to the
victors against new German aggression,”
stated the paper. “Only a livable Germany
in which the anti-fascist development is se-
cured can do this. .... Only a uniform and
therefore livable democratic Germany can
serve for peace and progress. A separated,
dismembered, economically and _ politically
sick Germany would become a_ political
pesthole within the heart of Europe ...”

The Neues Deutschland editorial asserted
a stabilization of the Reich is impossible
when the Germans split up among them-
selves. “. . . No matter what the new parts
of Germany are called, the most important
thing is that they are parts of a democratic
republic . . . ,” the editorial declared.

Party Politics

The British-licensed Telegraph declared in
an editorial on party politics that the parties
should not use the increase of food supplies
as a means of propaganda.

“There is no party in Germany which

--- Page 16 ---
doesn’t desire that the food situation be bet-
tered,” asserted the paper. “It would be un-
fair if various parties would claim that the
increase of the food rations is particularly
due to them ...”

“The same,” continued the paper, “applies
to PWs, for no one desires that the PWs
remain forever in prison camps.”

“In deciding what party to favor, the
voters should be given other questions than
that,” the paper said, noting that there are
problems which show up immediately the
differences between the various political par-
ties. As an example, the paper mentioned the
establishment of a planned socialistic econ-
omy and the question of the liquidation of
monopoly and trust economy as well as the
land reform.

Referring to the fact that Grotewohl and
Pieck are now touring the British Zone
speaking for the SED, the paper declared
it would now be only just if Schumacher
would be allowed to tour the eastern zone
speaking for the SPD.

Noting that Pieck has declared that the
SPD is not necessary in the eastern zone, the
paper observed ironically that perhaps some
people in the west will advise him that the
SED is not wanted there.

Berlin Radio Comment

In advising Berlin Radio listeners ““What
‘We Must Know,” a speaker from the buna
works in the Soviet Zone stressed the need
for economic trade with the western zones.
The speaker pointed out that on his trips to
the western zones he had found “a great
readiness for an exchange of goods,” that
the Soviet Zone requires important raw
materials while the western zones need agri-
cultural products.

Declaring “we shall reach our goal” the
speaker reminded the listeners that insur-
mountable difficulties appeared a year ago,
but they have been solved. “While we know
we have to rely on the support of the oc-
cupation forces, we must not forget to use
our own initiative,” he concluded.

* * *

The Berlin Radio’s “Tribune of Democra-

13

cy” program presented a round-table dis-
cussion among western zone members of the
LDP who had attended the party’s conven-
tion in Erfurt. One party member observed
that on his trip through the western zone
he had discovered the realization of the de-
mocratic idea operates with a stong impulse.
Regarding the Soviet zone the visitors opined
they had secured a favorable impression, that
work in the Soviet zone is not temporary
but for the future.

* * *

On its “Comments of the Day” program
the radio explained to its listeners that “de-
mocracy” means: “the rule of the people.”

“The idea of democracy is not rigid,
though,” stated the radio, citing as the finest
form of democracy that which assures dem-
ocratic rights and freedoms to the majority
of the people and which gives to all people
the same chances,

Contrary to anarchy, democracy does not
abolish all order, opined the radio, pointing
out that the people live in a community
where the rights of others must be con-
sidered.

Dictating to the Press

In an editorial referring to the attempts
of German public officials to dictate to the
press what can or cannot be written, Die
Neue Zeitung, official US newspaper, de-
clared recently, “These incidents show the
enormous difficulties the press still has to
contend with in its job of fact-finding and
reporting. The first condition to be met, if
the new German press is to fullfil its major
function, namely the objective information of
the German public, is a genuine atmosphere
of mutual respect and confidence between
the press and the authorities, regardless of
whether the press praises or blames, regard-
less of the political shade of the journalist
or the official. Where there is not this re-
spect and trust, the press has no alternative
but to resort to other sources of news, the
accuracy of which would thus suffer from
lack of access to direct and natural news
sources.”

--- Page 17 ---
(Upper left) A worker coating glass fixtures; (abov.
women varnishing lock parts to prevent rust; (upp!
right) worker applying paint to lamps; (lower left) t
men preparing glass reflectors for painting; (low
right) view of workers making safety locks,

Signal Corps Phot

--- Page 18 ---
With six factories in operation through-
out the country, Zeiss Ikon is one of Ger-

many’s leading manufacturing concerns.

Going back into production in October 1945,

its two Berlin plants have been turning out
cameras for the US Army Exchange Ser-
vice, as well as office lamps, street and
railway lights, and safety locks for German
civilian us When quotas are announced
by OMGUS, the concern expects to begin
allocating a portion of its output for export.

--- Page 19 ---
US Personnel Permitted to

Testify in German Courts

Persons subject to US military law or
associated with the US Office of Military
Government are now permitted to testify as
witnesses in German courts, according to
Regulation 2 of Military Government Law
No. 2, approved by the Deputy Military
Governor.

In keeping with MG policy of giving the
Germans greater responsibility, the new
regulation broadens the power of German
courts by permitting the Germans to request
necessary testimony from American wit-
nesses. Previously, no American was allowed
to testify in any German court. This made
it necessary for cases concerning German
civilians being transferred to MG courts if
Americans were required as witnesses.

Written request for an American to testify
must be made by the president of the Ger-
man Court to the commanding officer of the
detachment, company or higher command
exercising direct supervision and control
over the witness. The request shall include
a statement of the title and nature of the
action, together with a statement of the
facts proposed for proof by the testimony
sought.

Persons permitted to testify under the new
regulation are military personnel of the
United States and of the. United Nations
serving with the tactical armed forces of the
United States, and other persons subject to
US military law, including dependents.

Non-military personnel serving with or
employed by the Offices of Military Gov-
ernment and their dependents, if subject to
US military law, may be permitted to
testify upon approval by a Director of an
Office of Military Government, or his
designee, exercising supervision over the
witness.

Testimony given must not concern classi-
fied matter and must not be prejudicial to

16

the interests of MG or of the Ar
of the United States. Copie'
papers and copies of reports

of inquires
cannot be requested or furnished.

No former member or employee of the
US armed forces or former employee of
MG can testify before a German court con-
cerning any information acquired by him
as the result of such membership or employ-
ment or which involves activities of the armed
forces or of MG or its personnel, unless
expressly permitted to do so in writing by
the Commanding Officer of his former unit
or office. If testimony concerns MG, per-
mission must be granted by the Director
of the Office of Military Government for the
Land in which the German court is situated.

No person subject to US military law, and
no employee of MG, other than a German
national, shall be subject to punishment by
any German court for any contempt of
court. Notice of alleged contempt may be
referred by the court to the appropriate
military authority for action.

Internment Camps

Administration of internment camps in
the US Zone containing persons awaiting
trial under denazification laws is _ being
turned over to German civil authorities, the
Public Safety Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS, has an-
nounced. Transfer of approximately 18
camps is to be completed before 1 September.

Internees held in camps or currently on
trial as war criminal suspects and witnesses,
those designated members of organizations
indicted as criminals by the International
Military Tribunal, and persons arrested by
intelligence and security troops and whose
liberty would be inimical to the occupation
forces, will remain in MG custody.

Those internees who will be turned over
to German authorities were taken into
custody on varied charges of having fostered

--- Page 20 ---
Nazi ideology and otherwise furthered the
aims of the National Socialist Party. Ger-
man officials will establish tribunals and
appoint prosecutors within the 18 camps for
processing the internees, as provided by the
Law for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism, even before the change-over
becomes effective.

Department to Handle
All Expellee Problems

To plan for its present refugee and ex-
pellee population of 447,000, which is ex-
pected to increase to 700,000 by the middle
of October, the German Ministry of the
Interior of Land Wuerttemberg-Baden has
established a special Department for Ref-
ugees which will take over the program
from the Public Welfare Department. The
new department provides initial reception
and care and coordinates the services of the
labor, housing, education, welfare, food and
health offices in each Kreis for the new
residents.

Each refugee or expellee family coming
into the Land must be medically examined
and then assigned to a community. Housing
must be available and, in addition, the Ref-
ugee Department attempts to locate families
in communities where they will be religiously
acceptable to the rest of the community, and
where employment will be available, ac-
cording to their skill or trade.

Although only about 35 percent of the
refugees and expellees are men and only
half of them fitted for hard physical labor,
MG authorities state that, since last January
when an acute farm labor shortage existed,
almost two-thirds of the 33,000 farm workers
sent out by the local employment offices
were drawn from this group. Many of the
women and children also volunteered to
help with the harvesting.

Since more than a quarter of the new
residents are children, the strain on the
Land school system has been heavy. During
June alone, almost 17,000 pupils, mostly
refugee children, were added to the elemen-
tary school rolls, and more than 7,000 to the

17

vocational schools. Classes are still “un-

manageably large,” although 300 elementary
school teachers were recruited during the
month, said an MG officer. Vocational
schools average 88 students per teacher. The
situation is further aggravated by the fact
that many of the children coming from
other countries do not speak German.

US Liaison Group

The importance to the industrial recovery
of the US Zone of coal and steel from the
Ruhr has resulted in establishment of a per-
manent US Liaison Group with headquar-
ters at Essen in the British Zone. Col. Ellis
F. Altman, Deputy Chief of the Industry
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, heads
the new group which is composed of spe-
cialists in coal, steel and mining supplies.
Branches are to be set in Duesseldorf, steel
center for the Ruhr, and in the Saar region
in the French Zone.

The purpose of the US Liaison Group is
to facilitate the shipment of coal and steel
which is allocated to the American Zone, and
also the movement of mining supplies and
other equipment going into the Ruhr and
Saar from the US Zone.

I. G. Farben Control

Between 30 and 35 of the smaller pro-
perties of the I. G. Farbenindustrie in all
Zones, which can be operated independently
without detriment to the technical produc-
tion of chemicals for peaceful uses, are to
be sold on the open market, the Economics
Division, OMGUS, announced.

This action is being taken in conformity
with a quadripartite decision of the four-
power I. G. Farben Control Committee, and
is another step toward dissolving what was
once the largest chemical corporation in the
world.

The first list of saleable properties in-
cludes only these that are neither affected
by questions of patent and trademark rights,
nor by the larger decisions involved in the
eventual deconcentration of the principal

--- Page 21 ---
I. G. Farben holdings. Although these plants
represent only a small fraction:of:the I. G.
Farben assets, their disposal is expected to
furnish a precedent for subsequent measures.

Award fo French Officer «

The Legion of Merit, Degree of Officer,
was presented to General de Division Roger
Jean Noiret, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of
the French Group Control Council in Ger-
many, at ceremonies 19 July in front of the
Director's Building, OMGUS Headquarters,
Berlin.

The award, presented by the Deputy
Military Governor, cited General Noiret’s
“outstanding service from April 1944 to
May 1945 as Deputy to the Commanding
General of French troops in Great Britain,
Chief of Staff in the Northern Zone and as
Military Attache in London.”

Swords into Plowshares

Through arrangements made by MG for
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, the firm of Eberhardt
Brothers. at Ulm and the forging and ham-
mer works of Karl Schneider at Aalen are
manufacturing plow points and plowshares
from armor plate which had been rusting at
Mannheim, Ulm, Neckarsulm and _ other
places in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Experiments made in reclaiming armor
plate, designed to relieve the shortage of
steel for needed farm implements, disclosed
that armor plate varying in thickness from
8 to 23 millimeters could be reclaimed pro-
fitably. Through a series of heat treatments,
the armor plate’s hardness is reduced to the
point where it may be forged into steel of
the durability demanded of farm implements.

Removal of Documents

Two consignments of valuable documents
and records which had been stored 900 feet
underground during the war in the Kochen-
dorf salt mine in Heilbronn, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, were moved in the past two weeks
to the British Zone.

Archives belonging to Schleswig-Holstein
and comprising 3,200 loose packages and

550 cases of bound archives estimated to
contain 10,000 volumes required ten trucks
to take them to north Germany.

Vital documents containing in many in-
stances ‘the only existing record of the
former inhabitants of the city of Cologne
were returned to that city. The 280 cases
of materials required 14 trucks to make the
transfer.

Wearing of Allied Uniforms

OMGUS field officers have been in-
structed to deal severely with violators of
MG Ordinance No. 1, Section 8 (Unlawful
Wearing of Uniform of Allied Forces).

As a general guide, it was recommended
that simple violations be punished by one-
year confinement and that unlawful wearing
of the uniform in furtherance of a criminal
act be punished ‘by five-year confinement.
but punishments’ will be modified to fit each
case.

Export Exhibition

Three hundred exhibitors are arranging
thousands’of samples for the special export
exhibition to’ be opened 1 August in Stutt-
gart, according to the Export-Import Section,
Economics Division, Regional MG, Wuert-

temberg-Baden.

18

Among the highlights of the displays will
be a small story-and-a-half pre-fabricated
house. The finished house, with a special
cut-away section showing the construction
of the building, has insulation of concrete
and glass wool.

One ‘exhibition room will be devoted to
wooden products made in Wuerttemberg-
Baden. Most of these items will fall in the
non-luxury class, with samples of bowls,
plates, fine inlay work and domestic furni-
ture being displayed.

Children’s School

With the enrollment of 90 children, the
first summer school for American children
in Germany opened 23 July in Berlin.
Children of US military and civilian person-
nel and children of personnel ofthe Allied
missions attached to the US headquarters

--- Page 22 ---
are eligible to attend the courses offered
under the supervision of the Information and
Education Section, Headquarters Command,
OMGUS, during the remainder of July,
August and September.

Approximately 50 children, ranging in age
from two to six years, have been enrolled for
the morning nursery school. Children in the
7—14 age group will attend afternoon
classes in history, geography, reading, spel-
ling, arithmetic, German and Russian. Histori-
cal travelogues are planned in .conjunction
with the history and geography classes, par-
ticularly films pertaining to. the United
States, to keep the children informed about
their own country.

Removal of US Dead

Disinterment operations for the removal
of American dead in the Soviet Zone was
started 22 July under an agreement between
American and Soviet authorities. Upon
identification, the bodies will be buried in
American cemeteries in Belgium pending
decisions concerning the repatriation pro-
gram.

Three teams, consisting of three men each,
which have been operating in the Soviet
Zone, have to date found the graves of 300
American military dead. Previous arrange-
ments with the Soviet officials did not per-
mit disinterment. As a result of the recent
negotiations, the teams were increased to 13
men each.

OMGUS Officers Honored

The Legion of Merit was awarded 23 July
to Brig. Gen. Robert A. McClure, Director
of Information Control, OMGUS, and to Col.
Marcin Boyle, Chief of the Policy Enforce-
ment Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS. The presentations: were made by
Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Military
Governor, at ceremonies in his office at
OMGUS Headquarters.

General McClure was honored for “ex-
ceptionally meritorious service as Military
Attache ‘to: England during “the period Feb-
ruary 1942’ to September 1942.” - Colonel
Boyle was cited for “exceptionally meritori-

“19

ous conduct in the performance of outstand-
ing services as Director of Civil Operations
and later as Headquarters Commandant,
Bremen Port Command, Bremen, Germany,
from 6 May 1945 to 6 February 1946.”

Interzonal Activities

The Quadripartite Railway Committee
agreed 16 July that uniform through-traffic
rates should apply throughout all zones of
Germany and that equal distribution of the
revenues should be made between the zones
on the basis of services performed.

An arrangement was concluded by which
empty open-top cars will be furnished to
the British Zone for moving steel billets to
the French Zone, where the billets will be
used to manufacture cans for preserving
fruits, vegetables and other commodities in
the US Zone.

* * *

An appendix to the quarterly balance

‘sheets for banks has been distributed to all

banks in the three western zones of Ger-
many. This will permit quarterly informa-
tion beginning 31 March 1946 to be supplied
on all interbank accounts of banks in the
three zones.

Since all clearances with Berlin and the
Soviet Zone funnel through the Stadtkontor,
whose statement is already available, there
is no need to use this form for the Soviet

Zone.
* * *

Pending four-power agreement on the
interzonal exchange of newspapers, distribu-
tion of American-licensed German mnews-
papers to the other occupation zones of Ger-
many has been stopped. The commanders
of the other zones have been requested to
halt the flow of German newspapers from
their zones into the US Zone until an agree-
ment is reached.

* * *

A group of British officials made a three-
day tour of the US Zone last week to. ex-
amine the structure and organization of gov-
ernment in the US Zone. The group con-
ferred with MG and German officials in
Wiesbaden, Stuttgart and Munich.

--- Page 23 ---
TOWARDS A FREE GERMAN PRSS (Continued trom page 8)

are given specific directives and guidances,
and the responsibility for conformance is
placed on the German editors. However,
there is post-production scrutiny by a board
of experts. There have been violations, but in
only one case has the violation been particu-
larly serious. Many have received reprimands
in one form or another for slight violations,
most of which were due to lack of ex-
perience.

Except for these violations the technical
quality and journalistic practices have im-
proved considerably in the past several
months. The makeup of the papers has im-
proved. Under the old German system news
and opinion were combined. We are teaching
them to separate news from opinion and
comment, and to treat it in an objective,
factual manner.

Up to a few days ago the only access to
world news that German papers had was
through the official Military Government
news agency, DANA, established, operated
and controlled by Information Control. DANA
furnished the licensed press with the wires

of the major services of America, and all
news from outside Germany came through
this source. There were two reasons for
this. First, the American agencies themselves
were prohibited by the Trading With the
Enemy Act from trading directly with the
Germans. Second, German editors had not
reached the point where they could be given
complete freedom in selection and treatment
of news. Working with DANA were experi-
enced American newspapermen who could ex-
ercise discretion, caution and judgment in
selecting and treating world news. DANA is
now to be licensed, and will continue as the
main source of internal German news. This
is a very real contribution to the mission
of Military Government in Germany, and
has become possible because most German
editors have demonstrated that they are
able to handle world news unaided.

German editors and publishers themselves
are now playing a major role in the estab-
lishment of a free press in Germany, and
consequently in the reeducation and re-
orientation of the German people toward
democratic ideals and practice.

ECONOMIC UNITY PROPOSAL (Continued from page 9)

trative arrangements to secure economic
unity,” General McNarney stated, adding
that the Deputy Military Governor, Lt. Gen.
Lucius D. Clay, and his staff would be
available at any time for discussions on
this proposal with representatives of any
of the other occupying powers.

Secretary Byrnes, in his radio address,
raised the questions: “Is German militarism
going to be used as a pawn in a struggle
between the East and the West and is Ger-
man militarism again to be given the chance
to divide and conquer?” He said equivocation
in answering “will increase unbearably the
tension and strains which men of good will
everywhere are striving to relieve.”

Pointing to past experiences of “rounds of
verbal combat” to reach “understandings,”

Secretary Byrnes said he did not believe
“the Soviets realize the doubts and suspisions
which they have raised in the minds of
those in other countries who want to be their
friends by the aloofness, coolness and
hostility with which they have received
America’s offer to guarantee jointly the
continued disarmament of Germany.”

Secretary Byrnes also told in his radio
report of four-power discussions concerning
the peace treaties for Italy and former
satellite states of the Axis, the questions of
the disposition of Trieste, Italian colonies,
Italian reparations and a treaty for Austria.
His speech was accepted by the American
press as a “frank” report of the ministers’
successes and failures.

--- Page 24 ---
pproval by the House of Representa-

tives of the three and three-fourths
billion dollar credit to Britain was generally
interpreted by US newspaper comment as
evidence that Congress recognizes that inter-
national economic cooperation is essential to
the maintenance of world peace.

The point was made that, despite long
and sometimes bitter debate on the proposed
British loan, Congress has acted in a states-
manlike manner in taking action that reflects
the international outlook of the majority of
people of the United States.

Comment also generally recognized the
value of the loan in US-British economic re-
lations, but subordinated this two-nation gain
to benefits for world economic relationships.

The Louisville Courier-Journal said in
part: “Approval of the proposed loan means
not that an act of charity has been consum-
mated, but that one chance to establish a
sound economic base for peace has been ac-
cepted by the United States.”

According to The New York Times: “We
are aiding Britain because we think her re-
covery essential to our own welfare. But
this is not the only reason. We are not build-
ing an Anglo-American economic bloc. We
believe this aid to Britain is also aid, first,
to all Britain’s customers; second, to all
nations which wish to buy and sell in the
The USSR, with her closed
domestic economic system, can still take ad-
vantage of greater freedom of world trade.
She will not pay more for what she has to
import, nor receive less for what she has to
export, because of this agreement. In global
exchanges she will be in the same position
as any other large buyer or seller. She will
gain, as all nations will, if those exchanges

world’s markets.

AS REFLECTION OF US PUBLIC OPINION

21

are stabilized.”

“We do not pretend that a credit of three
and three-fourths billion dollars carries
magic that will bring on the millennium.
We do feel sure that the danger of a trade
war has been averted, that economic coopera-
tion among all members of the United Na-
tions has been brought closer, that one ob-
stacle to mobilization of the earth’s pro-
ductive forces against fear and war has been
removed.”

“In approving the British loan, the House
of Representatives proclaimed that the United
States is not going to renounce its world
leadership by skulking into isolation,” de-
clares the Philadelphia Record. “We are
proud because the representatives had cour-
age to put sense before sentiment, and wis-
dom to place the welfare of our country
ahead of sectional and group interests . . -
‘What we have done has been to lay a solid
foundation for post-war economy . . . With
this aid, Britain now can enter whole-
heartedly into the Bretton Woods program,
otherwise, she would have to drop out. The
World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund can now operate as planned — to
stabilize currencies, and, through other loans,
help other nations help themselves in recover-
ing from the war.”

The Washington Post said: “Approval of
the loan agreement carries with it a clear
mandate from Congress to press vigorously
toward attainment of those long-range eco-
nomic objectives to which British and Ameri-
can policy-makers are committed by virtue
of the agreement — namely, lowering of
trade barriers, elimination of discriminatory
trade regulations, progressive abandonment
of exchange controls, and stabilization of

--- Page 25 ---
world currencies. These goals cannot be
reached overnight, but the loan clears the
way for Great Britain to cooperate with this
country to that end. It likewise makes it
possible for her to become a participant in
the International Monetary Fund and other
world agencies designed to regularize inter-
national trade and prevent economic war-
fare...”

“The fact that the House voted not merely
for this particular loan, but for less tangible
benefits to the world at large that are ex-
pected to follow should give fresh strength
and courage to those liberal elements at
home and abroad who are leading the fight
against postwar reactionary, separatist tend-
encies.”

Editorials Discuss Waiver of
VetoPower onAtomProblem

US Newspaper editorial comment, follow-
ing presentation to the UN Atomic Energy
Commission or the new US memorandum
further defining American recommendations
concerning relations between’ the proposed
International Atomic Control Authority and
organs of the United Nations, particularly
the Security Council, reiterated previously
expressed opinions that the Big-Five veto
power must be waived in the work of pro-
posed atomic authority. ;

Singled out for most comment was the
memorandum’s proposal for a treaty, freely
entered into by UN nations, covering forma-
tion of the Control Authority.

The New York Times said: “The US mem-
orandum goes far to meet the Soviets on
matters of form without surrendering the
substance of the American offer — demand
for effective inspection and control of all
atomic work before the United States sur-
renders either the bomb or knowledge of how
to make it.”

“The new American proposal agrees to
two points of the Soviet plan. It agrees to
outlawing atomic weapons by international
treaty and it makes the Security Council the
supreme authority in dealing with violations
of the treaty.”

“But it also insists on three other points

22

which the Soviets have opposed thus far.
First is the necessity of establishing a special
international atomic authority to supervise
all atomic developments which the Security
Council is not equipped to do, but this auth-
ority could report all violations of the bomb
to the Security Council for action under the
United Nations Charter . . . Second is that
the treaty must provide for effective inter-
national control instead of leaving its en-
forcement to the various governments within
their own jurisdiction. Third and most im-
portant is that the treaty which outlaws
atomic weapons must also outlaw the veto
power in the Security Council in all matters
affected by that treaty.”

Of different opinion is New Orleans Times-
Picayune which said: “We can think of no
reason why the USSR should have been ex-
pected to agree to give up the veto right by
independent treaty, if she was unwilling to
forego it by charter amendment.”

Foreign Service Board

An editorial in the Washington Post re-
cently advocated permanent representation
for several government agencies on the new
Board of Foreign Service, as established in
the pending Foreign Service Act of 1946.

The editorial said: “In reporting on . . .
the Foreign Service Act of 1946, the House
Foreign Affairs Committee wisely broadened
the basis of representation on the new Board
of Foreign Service. The Board is charged
with making recommendations to the Sec-
retary of State concerning policies and pro-
cedures to govern administration and per-
sonnel management of Foreign Service. In
addition to including the three Assistant
Secretaries of State and one representative
each of the Departments of Commerce and
Agriculture — who made up the old Board
of Foreign Service Personnel — the new bill
wisely provides that the President may give
representation on the board to any other gov-
ernment agency. Members from outside the
State Department, however, would sit only
when ‘matters of interest to their respective
agencies are under consideration.”

--- Page 26 ---
ADULT EDUCATION (Continued from page 5)

the opening weeks on denazification, recon-
struction of political institutions, present-day
economic problems and future political tasks.

This program will be assisted by 50 men
who were trained in democratic principles
while they were prisoners of war in Ameri-
can camps. During their war-time internment
in America, these former PW’s studied
various skills and trades and attended camp
classes on democracy, political sciences and
related subjects. These 50 men also plan
a four-day conference beginning 3 August
at Comburg Castle to lay plans for utilizing
in Germany the ideas and instructions they
received in the camps in the United States.

In addition, a volunteer speakers’ bureau
of American military and civilian personnel
has been established in Wuerttemberg-Baden
by the Adult Education Branch of the Land
MG Education and Religious Affairs Divi-
sion. Twenty Americans have volunteered to
speak at German school, club and other
group gatherings on American political
parties, government, schools and universities,
finance, German-American relations, demo-
cracy, history, labor and labor problems,
agriculture, public health, nutrition, employ-
ment and training practices, prison manage-
ment, student self-government and the
purpose of MG. ~

University extension courses are rather
limited in scope because of the inadequate
facilities available. However, some univer-
sities in the US Zone are overcoming the
difficulties which exist by permitting a small

number of adult students to attend their
regular classes and by sponsoring public
lectures and public forums. Noteworthy in
this respect is the Forum Academicum which
has been established under the joint auspices
of the universities of Frankfurt and Mar-
burg and holds weekly public forums in
each of these university towns.

Preparations are now being made to
reopen the Labor Academy (Akademie der
Arbeit) which before the Nazi regime had
been affiliated with the University of Frank-
furt as a labor college. The Nuremberg
trade unions have established a residential
labor school for youth in Konstein, Bavaria.
This school offers a one-week program of
political orientation and vocational training
and guidance.

OTHER FACILITIES AVAILABLE

In addition to these adult education pro-
grams provided by institutions, there are a
large number of other facilities in the US
Zone such as public libraries, discussion
groups, lectures, historical research and
other activities sponsored by MG-approved
cultural societies.

The extent to which reorientation and
reeducation of the German people will bear
fruit is difficult to foretell. Only after years
of consistently progressive teaching of dem-
ocratic principles will it be possible
accurately to evaluate the contribution of
adult education to the rehabilitation of
the Germans.

GIFT PARCELS (Continued from page 11)

While the CARE program is designed
primarily to enable an individual in the
United States to send a package to an in-

dividual in Germany, a certain percentage’

of all CARE packages will be turned over
to German welfare agencies for distribution
to the most needy. Individuals in the United
States, when placing an order, are urged
to state that if the named recipient cannot

be located, the package can be turned over to
welfare agencies for distribution to needy
persons,

Both" thé: dne-way parcel post and the
CARE programs are supplementary to the
program for the importation of relief sup-
plies from welfare agencies in the United
States for distribution by German welfare
agencies to the needy.

--- Page 27 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,

Germany, US Berlin Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Office of Mil Gov for
Wiirttemberg-Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)
Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford
Stuttgart Area
*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Boblingen Ist Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Maj S A Warren
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang : Backnang Ist Lt R R Mayer
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Nirtingen Nirtingen Capt P F Sullivan
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen 1st Lt U S Aiello
Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col W _T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen Ist Lt G H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Ist Lt D E Bedard
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj R H Stimson
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Ist Lt L L Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim Ist Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK Kuenzelsau ; Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
*LK Oehbringen Oehbringen Ist Lt M Korsun

‘
* Liaison and Security

4

--- Page 28 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Capt R N Tharp
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R_H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Ist Lt J E Switzer
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt B V Bloom

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hiinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hiinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen

25

Col J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Cel W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt LR Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt G E Schmoeker
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj R A Gish

Capt R O Didlo

Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 29 ---
DIRECTOR OR.
COMMANDING OFFICER

UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION °

Regierungsbezirk Hessen (Cont'd)

*LK Dieburg Dieburg Capt J S Chapin

*LK Friedberg Friedberg Capt C S Parshall
*SK/LK Giessen Giessen Maj C F Russe...
*LK Lauterbach Lauterbach Capt J T Hughes
*LK Alsfeld Alsfeld Capt H B Miller

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

LAND BAVARIA

Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt

Brig Gen W J Mueller

(APO 170)
Hq 38rd Mil Govt Regt Munich Col C_C_ Morgen
Hq Company Munich Capt J W Preston
Sv Company Munich Capt L R Clark
Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken
Co A Wurzburg Maj I P Chestnut
*SK/LK Wurzburg Worzburg Maj M B Voorhees
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg Aschaffenburg Capt J R Hurst

*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen

Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter

*LK Kitzingen Kitzingen Capt M Colbert ;
*LK Alzenau Alzenau Capt A T Neumann
*LK Bruckenau Bruckenau Capt Grodzinski
*LK Ebern Ebern Ist Lt G E Mair
*LK Gemunden Gemunden Capt J J Gotter
*LK Gerolzhofen Gerolzhofen Ist Lt G F Fechan
*LK Hammelburg Hammelburg Capt K L Ellis
*LK Hassfurt Hassfurt Capt R E Hellmig
*LK Hofheim Hofheim Capt F L Beelby
*LK Karlstadt Karlstadt Capt W E Brayden
*LK Konigshofen Konigshofen Capt C Boden
*LK Lohr Lohr Capt E E Kelly
*LK Markt Heidelfeld Markt Heidelfeld Capt Griffin

*LK Mellrichstadt Mellrichstadt 1st Lt L K Owens
*LK Miltenberg Miltenberg Capt O A Jenson
*LK Neustadt a. d. Salle Neustadt a. d. Salle Capt E F Warnke
*LK Obernburg Obernburg Capt J Bumic

*LK Ochsenfurt Ochsenfurt Capt L A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B , Ansbach Col E M Haight
SK/LK Nurnberg Nurnberg Lt Col C Klise
*SK/LK Bamberg Bamberg Lt Col J R Case
*SK/LK Bayreuth Bayreuth Capt D F Stroup, Actg
*SK/LK Erlangen Erlangen Lt Col F-M Guild
*SK/LK Coburg Coburg Maj S Klein

*SK/LK Hof Hof Maj H L Woodall
*SK/LK Ansbach Ansbach Capt J R Palmer, Actg
*SK/LK Furth Furth Maj A C Abbott
*SK/LK Kulmbach Kulmbach Maj H T Lund

*LK Kronach Kronach Capt J F Begley

*LK Lichtenfels Lichtenfels Maj F W Crimp

*LK Ebermannstadt Ebermannstadt Maj R T Boyer

*LK Hochstadt a.d. Aisch Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Capt O E Palmer

*LK Pegnitz Pegnitz Capt M G Stamatis
*LK Munchberg Munchberg Maj H C Kauffman

* Liaison and Security

26

--- Page 30 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forchheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hilpolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H W Zurn
Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

Ist Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielson
Ist Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

Ist Lt W C Williams
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt N A Carr

Maj C J Cody

Capt G N Hultren
Capt H C Moore

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing

*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth

*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim :
*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen

*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach

*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss

*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensbur;
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a. d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainbur;
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

27

Lt Col Hastings

Capt J W Bossert
Maj G J Geiner

Maj H L Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Maj T R Coykendall
Capt G L Milner

Ist Lt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Crowle
Ist Lt T B Woffor
Capt L R Mariels

Ist Lt L W Kutz
Capt R O Woodward
Ist Lt H Cohen

Lt S Fuchs

1st Lt R M McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

Ist Lt N Fueglein
1st Lt N Ugland

Lt M J Sibal

Capt G W Cunningham
Lt J D Brooks

Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt W W Green
Capt E J Gallant
Capt C_H_ Smallwood
Ist Lt P J Piccola
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
1st Lt F Henry

Maj E Fichter

1st Lt M W_ Doane
Ist Lt T A Winkelspecht
1st Lt W_Y. Murphey
Capt J W Fleshman
Ist Lt G L Thomas
Lt J C Mitchell

lst Lt H H K Theune
Lt P A Nesbit

Ist Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Ist Lt K J Miller

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altoetting

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Toelz

*LK. Aibling

*LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauwérth
*LK Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach
*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin Distric:

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Partenkirchen
Erding
Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz
Bad Aibling
Fuerstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
» Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsbur,
‘Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen,
Donauwérth
Gunzberg :
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 155)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO %51)

Bremen |
Wesermiinde

28

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col E Keller

Capt R H Necel

Lt Col J H Kelly

Lt Col H E Blakeley
Capt W T Lovett
Capt V L Thom

Capt C W Larimer
Maj M W Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W_N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
1st Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein

Capt O M Cole

Maj C E Carlsen
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Lawrence
Capt E J Pennetto
1st Lt H J Thompson
Capt H J Bierman

' Maj A G Snow

Capt C S Garber

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj RJ Paul
Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea
Capt R Glass

Ist Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green
1st Lt W M Toepser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schank
Lt P W Thomson
Capt S D Lubin

1st Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Greaves

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs