--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
R
opr MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,

OBER =

LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN aay

OFFENBACH

ROTEN BURG

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBERBISCH -
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH
atk BACKNANG
LEONBER Ses i)
BOBLINGEN

BRUCHSAG
HEILBRONN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

0

Nt JON

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
.. CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Accounting for Furniture and Household Furnishings as Post, Camp Circular No 135
and Station Property . 2 2 6 6 6 6 6 ee ee eee ee +) (24 Sept 1946, USFET

Unauthorized Possession of Property . . . . 2 +» + + ~ «© + Circular No 136
24 Sept 1946, USFET

Casualty Reporting 2. 2 1 1 6 1 ee ee ee ee ee ~~ Circular No 137
24 Sept 1946, USFE.

Transient Accomodations within the Occupied Zones... . . . .. Circular No 138
25 Sept 1946, USFET

Disposition of Current Deceased. 6 es ese ee ee ee +) Circular No 139
26 Sept 1946, USFET

Elimination of Nonprofitable Military Personnel . . . . . . . . AG 210.8 GAP-AGB
i tas , ~ 14 Oct 1946, USFET

Enlistment and Reenlistment in the Regular Army .. . . . « . AG 342.06 AGB
23 Oct 1946, USFET

Coordination of War Crimes Activities . . . . . . . «~~.» AG 000.5 GEC-AGO
26 Oct 1946, USFET

Operation on Highway Motor Transport by the Reichsbahn . . . . AG 531 (TD)
28 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Employment of Army Air Forces Liaison Squadrons. . . . . . . AG 322.01 GCT-AGO
29 Oct 1946, USFET

Equipment for Labor Service Units (Non-US Personnel) . . . . . AG 475 GDS-AGO
31 Oct 1946, USFET

Promulgation of Military Government Ordinance No 8 Establishing a AG 230 (LD)
Military Tribunal for Security Violations . . . . . . . « «+ + 6 Nov 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

“MURDER IS AMONG US” — The picture
on this week's cover shows a conference
between cameraman, director, and star of
“Murder is Among Us,” the first German
feature film to be produced since the occu-
pation. The motion picture, which was released
last month, was filmed by DEFA in Babels-
berg near Berlin.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Custodian of German Economy is the
story of the Economics Directorate of the Allied
Control Authority and the individuals who
participate in its activity. The article was
written by Thomas A. Falco, Chief Reports
Olficer, Reports and Statistics Branch, Econom-
ics Division, OMGUS, and a regular contrib-
utor to the “Weekly Information Bulletin.”

Information for The Land Constitutions was
assembled in the Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, and the article was written by Richard
M. Scammon, Chief of the Election Affairs
Branch of the Division.

The material for MG Radio was furnished
by “The Bavarian,” weekly newspaper of the
Office of Military Government for Bavaria
and by the Office of the Secretary General,
OMGus.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Custodian of German Economy
The Land Constitutions
MG Radio
Civilian Employees Association
One Year of Potsdam
Export Exhibit

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

10
dS
14

16
20
22

--- Page 7 ---
CUSTODIAN

by Thomas A. Falco

Aor: from three times a week to
once every ten days, an American brig-
adier general, a British civil servant, a
French financial expert, and a Soviet
engineer leave their respective sectors of
Berlin and head for the Allied Control
Authority Building, located in a park amidst
the destruction of what was once a thriving
business section of Berlin. There, in the
building that once housed the Kammer-
gericht, highest court of Prussia — but
which is now headquarters of the Four
Power organization ruling Germany — these
men sit down with their staffs and go about
the business of shaping the economic life of
post-war Germany.

How much coal can Germany export to
the liberated countries and still maintain a
minimum-level civilian economy?

Which plants in what industries should be
made available for reparations?

How much steel capacity should be left in
Germany, and what proportion should be
retained in each of the four zones?

‘What progress is being made to demilita-
rize Germany industrially, and is the job
moving along at the same pace in all zones?

How can Germany build up her export bal-
ance so as to acquire foreign currencies with
which to pay for vital imports such as food?

What can be done to speed expansion of
the building, textile, ceramics, furniture,
agricultural and other “peaceful” industries?

How can the economic unity of Germany,
called for in the Potsdam Declaration and
reiterated in the Reparations Agreement, be
put into operation?

Questions such as these must be considered
by this group, week in and week out, and
the answers submitied to the four-power

The Allied Control Authority Building in the
United States Sector of Berlin which is the
home of the Economics Directorate.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 8 ---
Coordinating Committee and Allied Control
Council, the two top bodies in the Allied
Control Authority. These four men, together
with their working staffs, represent the Eco-
nomics Directorate, one of the most impor-
tant of the twelve quadripartite Control Staff
Directorates in the ACA: Air; Naval; Mili-
tary; Reparations, Deliveries and Restitution;
Political; Transport; Finance; Legal; Pri-
soner of War and Displaced Persons; Man-
power; and Internal Affairs and Communi-
cations. Like its counterparts in the ACA,
the Economics Directorate takes the various
problems connected with the occupation of
Germany and tries to settle them in terms of
the basic policies agreed to by the govern-
ments of the Four Powers. To do this job,
the directorate is organized into seven com-
mittees — Food and Agriculture, Industry,
Central German Administration, Trade and
Commerce, I. G. Farben Control, Fuel, Liqui-
dation of German War Potential — upwards
of a dozen subcommittees and numerous
working parties.

It is 1100 hours on a Friday morning in
August. The Economics Directorate is about
to go into session. In a large room on the

second floor of the ACA Building — the
same room where, back in July 1944, Hitler
set up his Volksgericht, or People’s Court, to
try some sixty persons accused of plotting
against his life — forty to fifty Americans,
Britishers, Frenchmen and Russians are
gathered. Secretaries are bringing in sheaves
of papers. Stenographers are at their places.
The members, with the aid of interpreters,
are chatting with their colleagues. Pipe and
tobacco smoke drifts up toward the high

ceiling.

ROTATING CHAIRMEN

Brigadier General William H. Draper,
Director of the Economics Division, Office of
Military Government for Germany (US),
is chairman of the meeting. August 1946
was “American month” at the ACA Building.
During that month, US members of all
directorates and committees acted as chair-
men. This extended to the Allied Control
Council, consisting of the commanding gener-
als of the four zones of occupation, and to
the Coordinating Committee, made up of the
four deputies to the commanding generals.
July was “Soviet month,” with Soviet mem-
bers in the chair. September would be “Brit-
(Continued on page 25)

OF GERMAN ECONOMY

Brig. Gen. William H. Draper, Jr, American representative
on the Directorate, is shown with assistants and interpreters.

Photo by Byes

--- Page 9 ---
O: the 24th of November and the first
of December, the German voter will
round out a year of elections by balloting
for Landtag members in each of the three
States of the US Zone and in voting for or
against a Constitution recommended to him
by a Constitutional Assembly elected last
summer. The votes cast in these coming elec-
tions will close a period of Constitution-
making begun last February when the Min-
isters President of the various States ap-
pointed preparatory Constitutional Commis-
sions to assemble data and make necessary
preliminary studies. However, in all three
Laender the work of these Constitutional Com-
missions, varied at first, boiled down to the
same result — the drafting of a suggested
Constitution. On 30 June, Assemblies were
popularly elected to sit at Wiesbaden, Stutt-
gart, and Munich to go over these draft doc-
uments with a view to putting them before
the voters. Through their committees and in
meetings of the whole Assembly the job was
finished up this fall. With a few suggestions
of Military Government, the Constitutions
will be first voted on in Wuerttemberg-Baden
(24 November), then in Bavaria and Greater
Hesse (1 December).

GENERAL PATTERN SIMILAR

Though there are specific differences in the
basic laws the German Assemblies have
drafted, their general pattern is similar. Each
guarantees certain basic rights to call citizens
— the right to speak freely, to assemble
peacefully, to write and publish without
interference, to be free from arbitrary arrest
or detention. These and a number of other
similar rights which we have come to as-
sociate with the phrase “Bill of Rights” are
granted in all three Constitutions. Equally,
however, these rights are subject to a
measure of suspension in times of particular
emergency. While the Bavarians actually
numbered their emergency powers clause as
it was numbered in the Weimar document of
1919 — Article 48 — the other Laender
managed to avoid any invidious comparisons
by a new numbering system. Actually,

rye LAND

there is little comparison between the 1946
clauses and those of 1919; today the use of
special powers is strictly limited and control-
led by constant reference to the Landtage
and the courts; in fact, the position of the
executive is more closely defined than that
existing in the United States when a State
Governor proclaims martial law.

The governments which are to exercise
powers under these Constitutions will all
be parliamentary in character — that is, the
Minister President and his Cabinet will be
instruments of the legislature (or Landtag),
responsible to it and removable by it. In
Bavaria an attempt was made to cross the
parliamentary system with the executive
type of governemnt found in Switzerland by
stating a specific term of office for the
Minister President, but the final Bavarian
proposal includes a phrase requiring the
resignation of the chief of the government

if* . . . co-operative work between him (the
Minister President) and the Landtag....” is
impossible.

The legislature to which the executive wil!

--- Page 10 ---
be responsible is to consist of a single
chamber in Greater Hesse and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. In Bavaria the Landtag has
almost legislative power and the executive
is responsible to it alone, but a Senate has
been added as an advisory body with cer-

tain powers of delay on legislative matters.
While all three Constitutional Assemblies
gave considerable attention to the question of
unicameralism versus bicameralism, they all
took more or less the view that a popularly
elected second chamber would simply dupli-
cate the work of the first chamber and that
one not created on such lines would only
serve to frustrate the will of the voters. So
it is that all three Landtage are to be so
elected under systems of proportional rep-
resentation. While the election systems
will not differ greatly from those used in
‘Weimar days, a new feature has been added
to prevent fragmentization of political life
by the creation of many small “splinter”
parties. In Bavaria a party must poll at
least ten percent of the total valid votes cast
in a Regierungsbezirk to be entitled to share

in the distribution of seats; in Greater Hesse
the figure has been set at five percent and
in Wuerttemberg-Baden at a permissive ten
percent though in the latter case five per-
cent is now the law and appears to be as high
a figure as will be set.

INDEPENDENT JUDICIAL SYSTEMS

In establishing the organs of executive
and legislative power, all three Constitutions
have also set up independent judicial systems
to round out the allotment of government
authority, and in each Land a State Supreme
Court (Staatsgerichtshof) will be organized to
referee questions of Constitutional inter-
pretation which may arise under the new
documents. Unlike American practice, the
make-up of the Supreme Court includes
members elected by the legislature for fixed
terms, for the Germans have felt that the
practice in the United States necessitates a
politicized judiciary which they wish to
avoid.

But the Germans were by no means u-
nanimous in their Assemblies. In Bavaria it

(Continued on page 24)

--- Page 11 ---
hates Bill Allen is a hard-working
officer in one of the 230 MG field
detachments in a far corner of the Amer-
ican Zone. Every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, he tunes his special radio
receiver to 56.5 meters, a frequency which
was deliberately chosen because few non-
military or German radios can reach it. At
exactly 1500 hours, after the playing of
“Stars and Stripes Forever,” an announcer
begins to speak.

“This is the Office of Military Government
for Germany, United States, presenting an
official Government broadcast over Station
DTYC in Munich. The purpose of these
broadcasts is to inform Military Government

field detachments of the latest developments
in Military Government policy and other
matters directly affecting their operations.
“This broadcast emanates directly from
the Executive Staff of the Office of Military
Government for Germany, United States,
and all orders and regulations which are
being announced on this program are simul-
taneously released to Land Directors of Mil-
itary Government through command channels
by authority of the Military Governor.”
After this never-changing opening, Captain
Allen proceeds to get the latest instructions
on the prohibition of Army vehicles in Cze-
choslovakia, or the orders to German police
squads, or recent ordinances governing the

An officer from the Plans and Operations Branch, OMG
Bavaria directs one of the broadcasts from the control room

while German technicians put the program on the air.

____ Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 12 ---
Two of the announcers for Radio Station DTYC are shown as they relay

important MG directives and policies to detachments in the field.

movement of aliens and stateless persons in
Bavaria, or any one of a hundred such items
of information and instruction that might be
invaluable to his work. He also receives the
latest news bulletins from the Office of
Public Relation, OMGUS. He and his party
no longer have to depend on teletype, or
wait for couriers or ‘the mail service to
obtain the latest information pertaining to
their activities. Through DTYC they receive
instructions from the Military Governor al-
most as quickly as does the sergeant working
in his outer office. The Captain and his men
are remote only in the geographical sense.

The script for the broadcast is prepared
by the broadcasting office of OMGUS in
Berlin. It is transmitted by TWX to Munich
on the morning of the day of the broadcast,
where it is checked by personnel of the
Plans and Operations Office of OMGB for
typographical errors and unintelligible read-
ing. Berlin is then contacted by phone if
the script requires checking.

The location of the actual transmission of
the broadcast is Munich, through a 100,000
watt transmitter situated about 40 kilometers
outside the city. It was formerly used by

the Nazis ‘to air the speeches of Hitler,
Goering, and others. Munich was chosen
over Berlin because the latest-type equip-
ment is available there, and Radio Munich
supplies the engineering staff and the facil-
ities for the program. The announcers are
necessarily all volunteers, since no T/O has
been set up for a station staff. Three an-
supplied by OMGB, usually com-
bine their talents to produce each program.

nouncer

SPECIAL RADIO RECEIVER

The task of securing and distributing the
proper type radio receivers for the field
detachments was a difficult one. In fact,
during the test broadcasts in June, the pro-
gram was viewed with a certain amount of
pessimism by many detachments because
so few were equipped with the proper type
of receiver. Now, since the program officials
campaigned for and received the sets for
the detachments, the program has caused
considerable enthusiasm. During the first
try-outs, letters were received from all over
the world from persons who had heard the
first DTYC broadcasts.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 13 ---
qual representation is an old and well-

established American tradition, even a
birthright. Consequently, when in July both
the military and the American civilian em-
ployees of OMGUS became aware of the
already huge and rapidly increasing number
of unrepresented civilians employed by the
headquarters, the natural reaction was to
turn to the democratic processes. The use of
the time-tested formula involved an assembly
of persons concerned, the election of com-
mittees, the drafting of a constitution, and an
open exchange of ideas on the subject.

These activities resulted in the birth of the
OMGUS Civilian Employee’s Association
with a council to represent its more than
1200 members. The function of the council
is to act as an organized medium for group
expression and as a liaison between the
supervisory officials and the employees. It
is expected that the creation of such an of-
ficially recognized body will betier the
morale and promote more efficient conduct
on the part of the parties concerned.

The impetus to organize found voice in a
proposal sent to the Chief of Staff by a

CIVILIAN
EMPLOYEES
ASSOCIATION

group of civilian employees. In response to
this proposal, OMGUS published a letter on
26 August authorizing the establishment of
such a council. As a further step, an interim
committee drew up a constitution which was
ratified in a general assembly on 3 October.

Membership in the association in open to
all War Department employees and employ-
ees of other US agencies and Allied govern-
ments working in OMGUS. The present roster
of members includes more that 85 percent of
the civilian total. No dues are required.

PROVISION FOR FOUR OFFICERS

The constitution of the organization pro-
vides for four officers: A chairman, vice-
chairman, a secretary and an assistant, all
of whom are elected to serve for four-month
terms. The Council of Representatives is
composed of one elected representative and
one alternate from each of the offices or
divisions of OMGUS. Offices having fewer
than 30 civilian employees are grouped with
other similar offices to elect representatives.
There are sixteen council members who serve
six-month terms of office. The charter

--- Page 14 ---
provides that the council shall meet twice
each month, but during the first few months,
weekly meetings have been held because of
the long agenda.

The association accomplishes most of its
work through the functioning of several com-
mittees. The names of these committees
indicate their particular field of activity:
legal problems, living conditions, working
conditions, transportation, community rela-
tions, police and security, publicity, election
and by-laws, medical service, recreation and
education, cost of living, and Allied oc-
cupational personnel. These consist of from
three to nine members each. Upon receiving
the report of any given committee the council
will discuss the findings of the report and
take appropriate action.

CLEARING HOUSE FOR GRIEVANCES

The council acts as a clearing house for
group or individual grievances on the part of
civilian employees. As an illustration, the
first grievance to be presented was a petition
signed by more than 100 girls protesting against
the removal of telephones from their billets.

The members of the OMGUS employees council are shown at
one of their regular meetings where problems relating to the
welfare of the civilian employees of OMGUS are discussed.

Photo by PRO, OMGUS

Investigation of the complaint was carried
out by the living conditions committee and a
report was handed to the council. The coun-
cil, in turn, presented a protest to the proper
authorities, working through the personnel
officer. The outcome of this grievance is still
pending.

INADEQUACY RECOGNIZED

Another incident taken up by the council
involved a young woman who had been sus-
pended from work for three days on a
second offense for the incorrect wearing of
the uniform. Members of the legal and the
working conditions committees pointed out
to the personnel officer that the civilian in
question had been given no hearing, since no
appeal procedure for civilians had ever been
established which constituted a violation of
basic legal rights. This inadequacy was
recognized, and the legal committee was im-
mediately put to work on drawing up plans
to cover hearings and the possibility of
establishing an appeals board and a system
of standard fines. At the same time, the
council requested that the personnel office

--- Page 15 ---
“hold in abeyance any further implementa-
tion of the disciplinary action, involving
OMGUS civilian employees until procedure
has been established for providing hearing
for the accused.” As a result, a procedure
for hearings is being set up and will be
presented for approval at an early date. The
case of the civilian employee who lost three
day’s pay with no benefit of hearing has
been taken up as a personal grievance, and
she hopes to regain her 21 dollars.

The legal committee is also investigating
the question of the collection of the 25 per-
cent differential pay. It has been indicated
that the Bureau of Internal Revenue has
ruled that the differential is to be considered
a bonus for coming overseas and consequently
is taxable and should be paid to dependents
who are working for the War Department
as well as to the heads of families. On the
other hand, the Bureau of the Budget has
ruled that the 25 percent differential is an
added living expense, not taxable as such,
and not to be extended to any dependent of
the WD employee who may be also working
for the government. The council hopes to
call the attention of the War Department to
this discrepancy through USFET channels.

LESS IMPORTANT ISSUES AIRED

In addition to the larger issues before the
council, such items, through the appropriate
committees, have been taken up as that of the
discrimination in the matter of billets. The
charging of rent for maids’ rooms is one
example, and another is charging the same
rent for a small room as for one much larger
and better furnished, The removal from
billets of single employees to make room for
employees with dependents has also claimed
the attention of the housing conditions com-
mittee.

The recent poll on working hours, con-
ducted through the association at the request
of the Deputy Military Governor, clearly
illustrates the advantage of having a recog-
nized and efficient organization of employees
through which to work. Within 24 hours
the council had distributed the ballots to the
representatives of the various divisions, the

voting had been accomplished, and the final
results had been published. Almost 80
percent of the members cast ballots. The
results of the poll indicated that the major-
ity of employees favored a 44-hour week
and a work day from 0830 to 1730 hours.

As the constitution of the association
states, “It is intended that this association
can, and will, aid Military Government in
carrying out its occupation policies.” Rep-
resentatives of the organization have already
been requested by MG to attend conferences
on such questions as the army exchanges
and the barter center. Aside from its basic
function to represent “these civilian employees
in matters affecting their lives, and living
and working conditions,” it can promote a
more benefical association among all di-
visions of OMGUS and their operations, and
assist MG to reach satisfactory answers to
the many difficult problems, both personnel
and otherwise, which will confront it.

The story of a civilian employee organiza-
tion in the ET would be incomplete without
giving credit to the first such organization
to be formed, that of the Civilian Employees’
Association of the Office of Military Govern-
ment of Bavaria. In April: the Director of
OMGB, foreseeing the need for such an
organization, together with civilian employ-
ees of the WD, initiated the program. The
organization is similar in form to that of
OMGUS, having an elected president and an
executive council representing the members

Child Feeding Projects

Two hundred thousand children in the
US. Zone are now participating in child-
feeding projects under a program sponsored
by CRALOG (Council of Relief Agencies
Licensed for Operation in Germany).

In the program, which is under the super-
vision of the Public Welfare Branch, [A&C
Division, OMGUS, 100,000 children in Ba-
varia, 30,000 in Wuerttemberg-Baden and
70,000 in Greater Hesse are receiving food
supplied by CRALOG and distributed by
authorized German welfare agencies.

--- Page 16 ---
he story of what Americans have done
since the signing of the Protocol of Berlin,
or the Potsdam Agreement as it is called, to
restore tolerable living
standard and prevent her from becoming

to Germany a

again an industrial Frankenstein, is told in
A Year of Potsdam, just completed by the
Economics Division of OMGUS. The 240-
page book, illustrated with photographs and
charts, recounts the achievement of military
government in reactivating Germany’s peace-
ful industries; in formulating the Repara-
tions Plan which set, in coordination with
the other occupying Powers, a level of in-
dustry for the German economy; in maximiz-
ing agricultural production; in
what remained of Germany’s

adjusting
industrial
capacity to the needs of the times; in evaluat-

ing, surveying, and preparing factories and

machinery which had been earmarked for
reparations; and in destroying the Nazi war

potential.

ECONOMIC UNITY STRESSED

A Year of Potsdam has as its motif the
overriding need for -the economic unifica-
tion of Germany, if the country is not to be-
come a festering sore in the heart of Europe’s

In every sphere of industrial ac-
tivity, failure to the artificial
barriers which cut Germany into four states.
shows its effects. Despite the injunctions of
ihe Potsdam Agreement which calls for uni-
fication, and which (under the “First Charge
principle”) calls for balancing imports with
exports, vast sums of money are being spent
io bring food and other essential commodities
into Germany in conirast to the relatively

econom}
eradicate

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 17 ---
od

--- Page 18 ---
port

Te pictures on these two pages were taken
*s Trade and Industry Ex-

at Greater Hes

position which is currently being held in the
Main Exhibition Hall, Wiesbaden. Operated
under the joint auspices of the Land Eco-

nomics Ministry and the Trade and Commerce
Branch, OMG Greater Hesse, the exhibition
features products ranging from all-steel lo-
comotives from Henshel and Son through

Opel automobiles down to hand carved ear-

rings from the artisans of Erbach.

Despite the fact that many of the items
on display are immediately available, the ex-
hibit is primarily intended as a demonsira-
tion of the potential industrial capacity of
Greater Hesse together with a portrayal of
the Land’s efforts in the field of interzonal
and export trade.

The exhibition, which opened last month,
will continue at least until June 1947. A
rotating system will be employed whereby
a different group of 700 industrials firms
will feature each week new displays of light
metals, heavy machinery and equipment,
optics, wines, leather goods, textiles, and
handicrafts.

(Left) Dr. James R. Newman, Director of OMG,
Greater Hesse and Dr. Karl Geiler, Land Minister
President, are shown listening to music which pro-
ceeded the 31 October opening of the exposition;
(below left) a group of German spectators look
over a display of trains; (below right) a future

customer examines a German-made car, one of the

products featured at the show. Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 19 ---
Two Denazification Officials
Retained Despite Resignations

The offer of two land denazification
ministers in the US Zone to resign following
criticism by the Deputy Military Governor
of German denazification results, were re-
fused by their respective ministers president.
The third, Gottlob Binder, Denazification
Minister for Greater Hesse, announced that
he had no intention of offering his res-
ignation.

Gotilob Kamm of Wuerttemberg-Baden
has been retained in office by the German
Minister President on the grounds that the
Deputy Military Governor had specifically
mentioned the work of Minister Kamm with
approval and that MG had concurred with
ithe Minister President in refusing to accept
his resignation.

Dr. Anton Pfeiffer, the Denazification Min-
ister for Bavaria, was retained only after
having been the storm center of a violent
controversy in Munich. A week before the
Stuttgart speech, he had been criticized by
Herbert Gessner, Radio Munich news com-
mentator, for alleged dereliction of duty.
Dr. Pfeiffer denied the accusation in a radio
address, and later, after hearing the sharp
criticism by the Deputy Military Governor
of the denazification program, tendered his
resignation.

“T have endeavored to the best of my
ability to prove to Military Government and
the Bavarian peoples that I am attending to
my task with all the earnestness which the
vital importance of denazification, my duties
toward my Land and Military Government,
and my official oath require.” wrote Dr.
Pfeiffer. “I think it necessary.... to offer
my resignation.” His resignation was re-
fused by the Land President with the con-
currence of MG. Simultaneous with this.
Herbert Gessner resigned his position with

16

Radio Munich.

The Deputy Military Governor
the Laenderrat in Stuttgart on 5 November:
“T-can only say that to date we are sorely
disappointed with the results and we have
yet to find the political will and determina-
tion to punish those who deserve to be
punished.... I do not see how you can
demonstrate your ability for self-government
nor your will for democracy if you are going
to evade or shirk the first unpleasant and
difficult task that Military Government is
determined to denazify the zone in Germany
for which we are responsible .... If the Ger-
man people are unwilling to do the job,
Military Government can and will do the
job.”

Nutrition Report

“Unless the official ration is brought up
io maintenance requirements, those people
who lack extra-ration food must be expected
eventually to succumb to starvation or inter-
current disease,” stated the Nutrition Sum-
mary Report, US Zone, for September.

The report, prepared by the Public Health
and Welfare Branch of the IA&C Division,
OMGUS, further stated that the German
population in the US Zone maintained during
September the weight average of July and
August without additional decreases in most ;
categories. This was due mainly to supple-
mental rations made possible by the fall
harvest. However, it was pointed out that
these levels of weight could not be expected
to continue during the winter under the pres-
sent ration, and also that the population
faced the coming winter with more nearly
depleted nutritional reserves than was the
case last fall.

Other findings of the report were: persons
between the ages of 7 and 17 require more
than the regular ration to provide for normal
growth and resistance to disease; nutritional
deficiency diseases have increased in some

--- Page 20 ---
locatities; and rickets’cannot be expected to
disappear until infants and young children
receive better diets. Civil internees have
shown some weight loss while expellees and
refugees arriving in the Zone are ina slightly
better nutritional condition than the resident
population.

Fewer Prisoners

A downward trend of prison population in
the US Zone was noted for the first time as
the number of prisoners in October dropped
by 558 from the high mark of 27,579 reach-
ed in September. The ratio of prison popula-
tion to normal capacity showed a two and
a half percent drop during ihe same period
and the percentage of unsentenced prisoners
awaiting trial decreased four and a half
percent.

A contributing factor to the further re-
duction of prison population and overcrowd-
ing in prisons will be the transfer of ali
Spruchkammer inmates formerly ‘confined
in German jails and prisons to civilian in-
ternee enclosures. Henceforth, no Spruch-
kammer cases will be detained in the prisons
more than three days. A more widespread
use of bail for prisoners awaiting trial and
the continued operation of a zonal clemency
board and three clemency boards in the
Laender are among the other factors which
will appreciably reduce the present prison
population and bring it to normal capacity.

Postal Services Extended

Postal and telecommunications services
authorized between the British and US Zones
were considerably expanded 10 November,
according to the Communications Branch,
TA&C Division, OMGUS. Almost all re-
strictions previously imposed were removed
and postal, telephonic and telegraphic serv-
ice was permitted between Germans resid-
ing in the two zones. For the first time
since the occupation, Germans are permitted
to exchange money, clothes, food and other
types of articles across the zonal boundaries.

A special designation on all bizonal

17

vouchers involving the transfer--of funds
across zonal boundaries is required. This
designation will consist of a “W’ placed in
the upper left corner of the voucher to in-
dicate payment for goods (Warenverkehr)
and “S” for all other payments. The “W”
designation will apply only to goods deliver-
ed after 15 May 1945. The Reichspost ad-
vised that vouchers not bearing the above
symbolization will be returned to the sender.

Personnel Changes

Sumner Sewall, who has been Director of
the Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS, since May, has been ap-
pointed Director of Military Government for
Wuerttemberg-Baden to succeed Col. W. W.
Dawson who was named Director of the
Regional Government Coordinating Office in
Stuttgart. Mr. Sewall is former governor of
the State of Maine.

Dwight P. Griswold, governor of Nebras-
ka, has been named Director of the [A&C
Division to succeed Mr.Sewall. Pending the
arrival of Mr.. Griswold by 15 January,
Henry Parkman, Director of the Civil Ad-
ministration Division, will also be acting
Director of the [A&C Division.

Col. Harold Pinther has been appointed
Inspector General at OMGUS Headquarters.
The Office of Inspector General, OMGUS,
was established 1 November.

Col. Peter P. Rodes has been named Direct-
or of the Office of Director of Intelligence,
OMGUS, succeeding Col. Theodore J. Koenig.

Youth Activity Increases

Approximately 387,000 German youth
participated in the US Army sponsored
youth activities program during September,
representing an increase of approximately
34 percent over the August total of approx-
imately 290,000, USFET, announced. There
was an 83.7 percent increase in the numbers
of military personnel taking part in youth
projects, and a 58.6 percent increase in the
number of activities for the same period.

--- Page 21 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The first main department of German
economics administration to function fully
in the combined Anglo-American area is the
price control department, which commenced
operations on 15 November. The head-
quarters for this agency is located at Minden.

The. fourteenth Laenderrat meeting on
5 November resulted in the decision to
distribute expellees among the Laender as
follows; Bavaria will receive 52 percent,
Greater Hesse, 26 percent, and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, 22 percent. The Draft expellee
Law was approved, granting to expellees
entering the Zone from the East equal rights
of citizenship with the citizens of the US
Zone pending a final determination of their
citizenship. The establishment of a bizonal
central office for expellee problems was
decided against. Instead, it was recommend-
ed that a close liaison of refugee officials
be maintained through frequent conferences.

DRAFT PRESS LAW APPROVED

The Draft Press Law, approved by the
Laenderrat meeting, proclaims a basic con-
cept of a free press within the limits of free
speech as defined in the constitutions of the
three Laender. The law, which would be
administered by a press council appointed
by the state governments, would make the
editors responsible for the articles published
and provide penalties for intentionally false
or slanderous reports, and for reports creat-
ing unrest by falsely holding public institu-
tions in contempt. There are provisions for
the suspension of publications under certain
circumstances and for agreements to keep
sources of information secret.

Licensed political parties in the US Zone
have been given permission to hold public
meetings without obtaining prior permission
from MG. Land OMG offices may require
not more than 48 hours prior notification
by political parties. Meetings may be
canceled by local MG offices in emergency
cases involving security or public safety.

Releases of US food for German civilian

18

use in the Zone totals about 959,000 net
long tons. October arrivals for food from
America were about 50,000 net long tons.

The US Zone coal mines now have a
sufficient number of workers. To conserve
coal used in US military installations, brown
coal has been substituted for hard coal
wherever possible.

PASSENGER RATES REDUCED

The Allied Control Authority has agreed
to a reduction, in the four zones, of passenger
rates for working men’s commutation, news-
paper distributors, students, and
blind persons.

An agreement has been reached to import
electric power and gas into the US Zone from
Mainz in the French Zone.

US and German material for the salvage
of aluminum scrap have been allocated for
collection to three firms in Bavaria. Already,
two furnaces in one Bavarian plant have
begun the melting of aluminum into pig
form. Whereas one-half of the scrap alu-
minum may remain with German economy
as payment, an estimated 25,000 tons is ex-
pected to be shipped to the US.

RESTITUTION PROGRAM

Continuing the restitution program, Ger-
man police are now being used in Greater
Hesse to recover works of art of non-indige-
nous origin. Recently, the first cultural
restitution to Luxembourg, consisting of
eight cases of state archives, was dispatched.
‘The total number of claims received by the
US Zone.to date, exclusive of claims from
ex-Enemy nations, is 3,140.

All four zones have submitted prelimin-
ary lists of German war research establish-
ments for investigation by the Liquidation
of War Potential Committee. Reports have
been made on the present status, history and
source of funds of the Kaiser Wilhelm In-
stitutes, 37 of which were in Germany or
German occupied areas, two in Italy and one
in Brazil.

nurses,

--- Page 22 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the -benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted circu-
lars, letters and directives’ may be obtain-
ed by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

Carrying of Arms

Regulations governing the carrying of
arms and amunition by US military and
civilian personnel are contained in USFET
directive, AG 474 PMG-AGO, “Carrying of
Arms,” dated 9 October 1946.

For personnel in the US Zone, the deter-
mination is made by the major subordinate
commands subject to specified limitations.
The directive further states that a copy of a
disapproved application will be forwarded
to USFET for file; that permits, letters or
other authority previously granted by any
headquarters are cancelled as of 1 November
1946; and that licensing of foreign makes of
weapons will not be authorized.

For persons outside the US Zone of Occu-
pation and under the jurisdiction of USFET,
the carrying of arms and ammunition during
off duty hours is forbidden except in the
following cases: Where personnel have
souvenir weapons and are enroute on a
permanent change of station, or where per-
sonnel are engaged in hunting in authorized
areas. Souvenir weapons may not be carried
on the person and the carrying of ammuni-
tion for such weapons is strictly forbidden.

Polish Repatriation Program

MG offices will give tactical military
authorities and UNRRA full assistance in
furthering the Polish Repatriation Program,
stated an OMGUS Indorsement to USFET
directive AG 014.33 GEC-AGO, “Polish
Repatriation Program” 11 October 1946.
Designed as a guide in dealing with the
current Polish repatriations, ‘the ‘directive
says:

“This program applies to all Polish dis-

19

placed persons, including those individually
employed and members or former members
of civilian labor service companies, in and
outside assembly centers or other installa-
tions in the US (Zones of Germany and
Austria and the US Sector of Berlin, and to
the Polish displaced persons employed or
held by Western Base Section in liberated
areas. This program does not apply to
Polish displaced persons who volunteer for
Government courts Military Courts
Martial.”

or

Vehicle License Program

License plates for vehicles have been
issued to all major commands in accordance
with the number of vehicles authorized
under current approval lists, according to
USFET directive AG 451.02 GDS-AGO,
“Vehicle License Program,” dated 16 Oc-
tober 1946. The directive further states that
additional license plates will only be issued
after USFET approves justified requests
for additional vehicles.

Reichsbahn Operations

In accordance with a policy of promoting
private enterprise in the field of highway
transport, OMGUS has directed that limita-
tions be placed on the operation of highway
motor transport by the Reichsbahn. Detailed
regulations for implementing this policy are
contained in USFET directive AG 531 (TD),
“Operation of Highway Motor Transport by
the Reichsbahn” dated 28 October 1946.

Among the regulations listed in the direc-
tive are: that vehicles not needed to conduct
authorized operations will be made available
for reallocation to essential users; that motor
vehicle operations by the Reichsbahn are
subject to all laws, rates, tariffs and regula-
tions in the same manner as any other such
operations; and that all previous regulations,
instructions, or directives, including MGR,
Title 14, are modified in accordance with the
provisions of this directive.

--- Page 23 ---
Denazification Proceedings
Criticized in Licensed Press

The German licensed press in the US
Zone had leveled strong criticism against the
German denazification proceedings and re-
sults for several weeks before the Deputy
Military Governor made his pointed admoni-
tion to the Laenderrat at Stutigart on
5 November that “If the German people are
unwilling to do the job, Military Govern-
ment can and will do the job.” Typical
examples of the press criticism were cited
in the weekly newspaper analysis by the
Office of the Director of Information Control
for the week prior to the Stuttgart speech.

A strong editorial in the Darmstaedter
Echo on the inadequacy of denazification
cited two recent cases before the Appeal
Board Offenbach-Land. In one, a_ well-
known wealthy pro-Nazi was rehabilitated
with a 50-mark fine, while in the other a
petty official who had been a party member
but could prove anti-Nazi activity was fined
RM 1,500. The editorial continued:

“If political cleanliness is demanded in
public life, it must begin with those legal
processes which not only serve German in-
terests, but have international significance.
such as denazification and demilitarization. . .
‘We cannot permit that concessions be made
toward those people who share the guilt in
the frightful catastrophe which has over-
taken us all.”

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) commented
on the radio speech over Radio Munich by
Herbert Gessner against Bavarian Denazi-
fication Minister Pfeiffer, saying Gessner
spoke “about the shady and dubious occur-
rences in the official realm” of the ministry’s
office. The editorial continued:

“Dr. Pfeiffer felt himself attacked and
made an attempt to defend himself. That is
his right. He began his defense with the

20

observation:
Gessner not to
the beginning of a campaign of incitement
inspired from certain political directions.’
Here. with the very first sentence, Minister
Pfeiffer loses his composure and his dem-
ocratic form.

“What sort of a counier-argument is this
which does not grant the opponent the right
to act out of disinterested motives and,
driven by sincere worry about a danger to
democratic principles, to exercise his right
to criticize? . . .”

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Regens-
burg) also cited Pfeiffer’s office in reference
to two reporis on denazification cases. One
told of a large-scale truck gardener whose
Fragebogen should read: Pg, SA, SD and
who was alleged to have beaten 74 concen-
tration camp workers who worked for him.
Pfeiffer’s office had been informed of this
case 3 August, the paper said, but had taken
no action. Moreover, it added, the former
Orisgruppenleiter of Moosbach had actually
been assigned to this truck gardener for
“oarden work.” The second report was the
case of a concentration camp inmate who
had been reported to the Gestapo by two
men and who had demanded punishment for
the “Nazi spies” after his release by US
forces. His letiers to the Nuremberg Appeal
Board, the chief mayor of Nuremberg and
to Minister Pfeiffer had not been answered.
the paper said.

A Clean German Press

The licensing of DANA as a German-
operated news service was used by the
Fuldaer Volkszeitung (Fulda) as opportunity
for an editorial illustrating the progress
made toward a democratic objective press.
The writer, Editor Heinrich Kierzek, repeat-
ed the MG admonition to the press that
“news and opinion must be separated clearly

--- Page 24 ---
in the German press.”

Kierzek discussed the Goebbels tradition
of fact-twisting and pointed out that the
custom of news-editorializing and fact-dis-
tortion was well established before 1933.
He wrote:

“I can recall from the time of my news-
paper apprenticeship that after visiting a
meeting at which a political opponent spoke,
it would never ‘have occurred to me to con-
fine myself to a factual sober account of
what the man had actually said. I led with
those sections of his speech for which I had
the best counter-arguments handy and then
began to argue with him in sentences which
ran somewhat as follows: . . . “The speaker
then took the amusing point of view that’ . .
‘He naturally made no mention of the fact
that? . . . ‘Just as ridiculous was his asser-
tion that’? . . . If it had occurred to me to
repeat the statements of the speaker factual-
ly and without comment, the editor would
have tossed the report in the wastebasket
with a sad shake of his head and would say
I still hadn’t learned a thing and would
never be a useful journalist.”

Kierzek then discussed the new theory of
news presentation which seeks to do away
with the conception of “guardianship of the
reader” and pointed out the increased editor-
ial difficulties involved in implementing the
new policy. “The editor must overcome all
old prejudices and must work, not only at
the newspaper but also at himself. But he
does this for a wonderful goal: for a clean
German press.”

kook ok

Also concerning the licensing, the Isar
Post (Landshut) said: ““The Americans there-
with have transferred to the German press,
and thus to the German people, a product of
unique significance. The fact of the licens-
ing of DANA does not and must not mean
that American assistance will be completely
withdrawn. If this happens, then it can be
said with certainly that great difficulties lie
ahead . . . It should be said to the American
press officers who tackled their job with
such energy that it is hardly possible to

21

imagine DANA without American support in
the future.”

SPD—CDU Coalition Urged

An editorial by Paul Loebe in the British-
licensed Socialdemocrat advocated a coalition
in Berlin of the SPD (Social Democratic
Party) with the CDU (Christian Democratic
Union) first pointing out that the SED
(Socialist Unity Party) not only didn’t achieve
its aim to unite the socialists, but on the
contrary proved to be the smallest socialist
group.

“A socialist majority of almost 70 percent
could be reached in Berlin only where there
was no unity,” declared Loebe, thereupon
advising that the Social Democrats in the
SED should therefore “draw the only pos-
sible conclusion and return to their old
party. The adherents of the KPD (Com-
munist Party) should gather under their old
name which they carry in all other coun-
tries.”

Turning to the success of the, CDU, which
he called “considerable,” Loebe déclared: “If
the CDU further pursues the lines drawn up
by its leaders, Jakob Kaiser and Ernst Lem-
mer, then there are good prospects for a col-
laboration with it.”

* * *

Later both the Socialdemocrat’ and the
Telegraf, also British-licensed, paraphrased
Franz Neumann, SPD leader, as declaring at
a meeting that the preliminary constitution
gives every party the chance to be represent-
ed in the Magistrat and district offices.

“Thus we are allowed by the Allies
through the constitution to join a great
coalition,” declared Neumann. “However,
we believe that the structure of the adminis-
tration must clearly follow the decisions made
by the Berlin population on October 20th.
We are ready for collaboration with all de-
cent forces which are willing to reconstruct.
However, the voting results provide for a
clear leadership by the Social Democratic
Party of Berlin.”

--- Page 25 ---
No Criticism of Foreign Policy
Seen in US Election Results

Two prominent Eastern newspapers in
editorials on the US national elections inter-
preted the decisive victory of the Republican
Party candidates as a vote of criticism of the
present Democratic Party Administration’s
domestic policies. Both The New York Times
and Washington Post emphasized the bi-
partisan unity of US foreign policy which
was not an issue in the elections, and there-
fore saw no criticism of that policy in the
vote.

The New York Times said: “For the first
time in sixteen years the Republican Party
has elected a majority of the House of Rep-
resentatives. It has done so as a result of
gains so generally distributed as to leave no
doubt that there has been a swing of senti-
ment on a nationwide scale against the Dem-
ocratic administration. Some of the causes
of the swing can readily be identified.

“There has been widespread dissatisfaction
with continuation of wartime controls in
Washington, long after the end of the war
for which these controls were originally de-
vised. Major strikes which have crippled re-
conversion and prolonged the scarity of con-
sumers goods, have clearly been attributed
by many voters in large part to a Democratic
policy which they believe has magnified the
power of organized industrial labor without
increasing its responsibility in corresponding
measure. Disputes within the administration
itself have unquestionably impaired its pres-
tige. And to all these, and other similar fac-
iors, must be added the normal tendency of
the pendulum to swing ultimately, from in’s
to out’s, and facts that the end of a war period
has often been followed by reaction in public
sentiment.

“In this last connection. comparison with
what happened after the first World War
is inevitable — and, in at least one highly
important respect, reassuring. The midterm

the Democratic Party then in power under
Woodrow Wilson, and the election of both
a Republican House of Representatives and
a Republican Senate. There followed a bitter
dispute over foreign policy, a Republican
rejection of Wilson’s leadership on inter-
national issues, and return of the United
States, under Republican auspices, to prewar
isolation.

“Fortunately, there is no good reason to
believe that this disastrous experience will
now be repeated. In 1946 a situation prevails
which is strikingly different from that of
1918. The United States today has a foreign
policy — a Truman-Byrnes-Vandenberg-
Austin foreign policy — which is bipartisan
in sponsorship and supported by the great
majority of the rank-and-file members of
both parties. It is not on the issue of foreign
policy, but rather on issues of domestic pol-
icy, that the present campaign has been
fought primarily, It is these domestic issues
which now constitute a problem in states-
manship for a Democratic President and a
Republican House of Representatives.”

The Washington Post said in part: “The
President no doubt has cause to wonder
over the anti-Administration figures that
have been registered. They put him, as
they have put presidents before him, face to
face with what might be called a dilemma
of the presidential system. He cannot treat
the result, as would be the case in the parlia-
mentary system, as a vote of no confidence,
and resign... . .

“Our two great problems are to keep the
economy on an equal keel and to guide
world reconstruction. Prospect that at least
the latter will still be pursued is not blur-
red by the anti-Truman defeat. For there
is biparty unity in our foreign affairs . . .
from now on it must be bolstered by the
patriotism of every American lest this great
government of ours, at an hour when all

--- Page 26 ---
humanity depends upon it, is rendered
helpless and contemptible. Man in days to
come has to prove greater than his institu-
tions.”

Atomic Energy Commission

President Truman’s appointments to the
new US Atomic Energy Commission, charg-
ed with control of domestic development of
atomic energy, were generally praised by
US newspapers and radio commentators.
The naming of David Lilienthal, former
Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity, was particularly applauded.

The San Francisco Chronicle said in part:
“It is to the President’s credit that he made
the painstaking search he did and succeeded
in inducing men of evident ability and integ-
rity to assume this responsibility ... .

“It is notable that all of these men are
in their prime — their average age is a little
over 50 — and that is important because
the positive job they have to do is a pi-
oneering one. Atomic force is recognized for
its potentiality of destruction and catas-
trophe, but we have still before us the ex-
perience of seeing atomic energy atiain its
other potentiality, that of becoming the
greatest boon ever known to technology and
medicine.

Cincinnati Enquirer: “The Atomic Energy
Commission is not merely a regulatory
agency. It is likely to become an extremely
important operating agency likewise. For
this reason, it needs leadership of men fa-
miliar with conduct of a public service enter-
prise. Lilienthal, as successful head of TVA,
has had the best of experience on this score.”

The New York Times: “It is well that the
lay point of view, rather than exclusively
the scientific point of view, should predom-
inate in this assignment. The problem is
as wide as the whole range of man’s hopes
and fears. It would be unwise to have a
commission which would bury its collective
nose wholly in technological phases of the
problem... .

“The new commission will own on be-
half of the government all fissionable mater-

ials. It will manage the production and
refinement of such materials, conduct and
encourage research and cooperate in any
system of international control that is set
up. We hope that when Congress meets
again these appointments will be confirmed
prompily by the Senate. Valuable time has
already been lost in getting a firm grip on
the vast problem of the atom.

“Weary Cynicism”

The basic problem of Germany is not to
prevent an upsurge of militarism but to
prevent spread of the “weary cynicism” that
has possessed that defeated peoples, Dr.
Samuel McCrea Cavert, general secretary of
the Federal Council of the Churches of
Christ in America, said according to an ar-
ticle in the New York Herald Tribune.

Dr. Cavert made the statement in a report
on his special mission to Germany, which
he completed recently, as temporary liaison
agent between the German Church and the
American Military Government there.

“Tt is a matter of fundamental consequence
that we should do our utmost to create a
mood of hope in the German people in place
of the present hopelessness,” he said. “Un-
less they can be led to see that there is the
prospect of a better future, the social and
political chaos in Germany will increase.
If so, it will become a center of infection
that will spread poison throughout Europe.”

The German people believe in democracy
only as they see it operating in a way that
promises: them hope and opportunity, he
said. “And if democracy fails in the Amer-
ican and British Zones and leaves social
and economic chaos, the whole of Germany
will pass into the Communist sphere —
and with Germany, probably the whole of
‘Western Europe.” . . . Adding to the prob-
lems of government is the fact that “Amer-
ican public opinion is . . . . like a physician
sitting by the bedside of a sick patient and
debating whether to do everything possible
to help him to recover or to hold back from
doing so, lest he become strong enough to
be a menace to his neighbors,” he said.

--- Page 27 ---
THE LAND CONSTITUTIONS (Continued from page 7)

was the question of the establishment of a
State President (Staatsprasident) which led
to violent argument and an 85-84 vote
against the proposal; in Wuerttemberg-
Baden the most vigorous debate centered
around efforts of the CDU to set up a
system of confessional schools as he
standard type for the State (also voted
down); in Greater Hesse the most contro-
versial article was one which declared certain
heavy industries would be nationalized by
the passage of the Constitution. In this case
the pro and con were so forcefully argued
that a separate vote will be taken on this
one Article in the 1 December voting.

NEWER RESPONSIBILITIES STRESSED

These last two controversies indicate the
type of social and economic provisions which
have been more and more finding their way
into modern constitutions. While constitu-
tion-drafters of a hundred years ago were
content to set up a structure of government
and enunciate the rights of the individual,
modern draftsmen (be it in Stuttgart, Paris,
or Albany) stress also the newer respon-
sibilities of the State. So it is that all three
Constitutions contain specific and rather
detailed mention of the educational system,
the rights and duties of religious organiza-
tions, the relationship of the church to the
State (especially to the educational function
of the State), labor and labor’s rights,
economics principles, the position of prop-
erty, and a host of other related subjects
with: which the Constitution makers at
Philadelphia would never have thought to
concern themselves.

In these provisions in the three Land
Constitutions in the US Zone may be seen a
general acceptance of the role of the State
in modern society as a “public welfare” in-
strumentality rather than as simply a referee
following the precept that least government
is best government. All three Land docu-
ments contain’ specific provisions fdr the
taking over of economic enterprises should
public welfare so dictate and all recognize

24

the position of labor and the duty of the
State to protect labor.

Apart from the economics and church
issues one of the most difficult articles to
draw in each one of the Laender was that
dealing with the relationship of the various
States to a future federal government for
Germany. The three States all restated their
position as parts of Germany and as parts
of a future German republic. Additionally,
all recognized the necessity of transitory
arrangements delegating short-term powers
to such ad hoc bodies as the Laenderrat and
the bizonal executive committees for the
economic unification of the British and US
occupation While there was a
measure of autonomousist sentiment, espe-
cially in Bavaria, pure separatism as such got
short shrift in the Assembly debates. On the
contrary, there was much feeling that
present zonal boundaries should be done away
with as soon as possible and a Constitutional
Assembly chosen to set up a new central
German government.

PARTY COLLABORATION

The final results of the labor of the
Constitutional Assemblies are rather much
the result of CDU and SPD compromise.
These two parties, plus the DVP in Wuert-
temberg-Baden, produced documents to
which the great majority of Assembly voters
could agree. In Stuttgart there was but one
dissenting vote in an Assembly of 100; in
Wiesbaden, six in ninety; in Munich,
fourteen in 180. In all Laender the major
political parties collaborated to produce the
final Constitutions. While it may be claimed
that Constitutional interest in hungry, war-
torn, shoddy Germany was not great, and
while it cannot be doubted but that the lack
of full power was a detriment to full atten-
tion to the job, this over-all co-operation of
the political parties on these basic laws of
the three US zone Laender may well presage
a beginning of an understanding of the‘give-
and-take on which a functioning democracy
must be based if it is to live.

zones.

--- Page 28 ---
CUSTODIAN OF GERMAN ECONOMY (Continued trom page 5)

ish month,” and October “French month.”
In keeping with the quadripartite character
of ACA activity, all chairmanships rotate
month by month.

The General walks toward a set of tables
arranged in a hollow square. They are
stacked with papers. Water bottles and ash
trays are conveniently placed. Pads and pen-
cils are within easy reach. He sits down in
the center of one of the four sides, flanked
by his deputy, his interpreters, and his secre-
taries. The British, French, and Soviet dele-
gations do likewise.

“Shall we begin our meeting?”

The General’s words are immediately
translated into Russian. As almost always,
translation into French is not necessary.
René Sergent, the regular French member, is
present; he understands English as well as
he does French. The directorate can put to
good use the time thus saved. Its agenda
is long, with anywhere from eighteen to
twenty-five items listed.

“Shall we take up the confirmation of the
minutes?”

CORRECTION OF MINUTES

Each of the members has before him a
transcript of the minutes in his own lan-
guage. All three versions — English, French
and Russian — are the same. Correction of
the minutes is now in order. The delegation
on the left of the chair is first (it was the
Soviet in August), then the work of correc-
tion proceeds clockwise from the chair — to
the French delegation, the British, and final-
ly the American. Each of the members
states at which point in the minutes he may
have been incorrectly quoted, or at which
point an idea of his has not been proberly
expressed. An “a” may become a “the;” the
word “imperative” may be changed to “im-
portant.” First and last, the aim is to have
the minutes present a true picture of what
happened at the last meeting, a precise rec-
ord of the decisions made and action taken.

Confirmation of the minutes may set the
stage for the day’s first display of parliamen-

25

tary strategy. One of the members may have
agreed to something which, on later study,
he finds he should not have agreed to. It is
then his job to try to convince the other
members that this agreement was illogical,
or unnecessary, or capable of being accom-
plished in some other way. Sometimes he
succeeds; sometimes he doesn’t. The remain-
ing members have studied the minutes too,
and may have good reason to resist any
change. Throughout, each of them is intent
on the discussion. It is no time for napping.
The wrong word may commit a government
to a course of action it does not want to take.

ECONOMICS LEADERS DESCRIBED

There is Konstantin Koval, the Henry
Kaiser of the Soviet Union. He is husky,
handsome, and tough as steel. As Deputy
Minister for Heavy Industry, he is a driving
force behind the Five Year Plan.

There is René Sergent; Inspector of Fi-
nance for France. He is slender, wears horn-
rimmed glasses and has all the social graces.
He speaks exquisite English and applies to
each problem the mind of a logician.

There is Eric Seal, career civil servant,
who heads up the British delegation. He is
of medium build, wears glasses, and smokes
a pipe. Now chief of the Trade and Industry
Division, British Control Council, Mr. Seal
was secretary to Winston Churchill during
the early war years and later was assigned
to the British Admiralty in Washington,
D.C. He suceeds the irrepressible Sir Percy
Mills, who rose from factory sweeper to in-
dustrialist and war time controller of Great
Britain’s machine tool industry. The soul of
politeness, his words would, on occasion,
sting like a wasp.

There is General Draper, an infantry offi-
cer in both wars. The general is an economist
by schooling, an investment banker by cal-
ling. In early 1940, he was called to active
duty from his position as vice-president of
Dillon, Read & Co., New York investment
bankers. A colonel at that time, he helped
Major General Lewis B. Hershey develop

--- Page 29 ---
the Selective Service System. He then saw
active service in the Central Pacific as regi-
mental commander of the 136th Infantry,
and was later assigned to Washington, D. C.
There he did a number of jobs for the Army
— from general staff work to supervision of
contract terminations. In March 1945, he
was detailed to Germany as Director of the
Economics Division, US Group Control Coun-
cil (now OMGUS).

POSITION AS ARBITRATOR

General Draper’s problem, many times, is
to bring together the apparently irreconci-
lable points of view of the various members.
Sometimes this can be turned to neat purpose
for the American side. At a meeting last fall,
the Soviet member brought up his zone’s
need for hard coal, available from the British
Zone. The British member said that his Zone
was quite willing to supply it, but sufficient
transport was not at hand. General Draper
suggested that each of the three set up a
pool of 1,000 railway freight cars to make
such a deal possible. All were quick to pro-
claim this a capital idea — to say nothing
of it being a generous gesture on the part of
the American delegation. Then the general
suggested that it would be foolish to let
those wagons return empty from the Soviet
Zone. Why not fill them up with brown-
coal briquettes from the Soviet Zone (which
the US Zone happened to need from the
Soviet Zone) and drop them off on the way
back? The point scored.

SIMILIAR CHARACTERISTICS

All four men are relatively young, ranging
in age from the early “forties” to the early
“fifties.” All are keen-witted and quick,
among the best their nation can produce. All
recognize that they are part of an inter-
national team that must win the peace as it
won the war. Time and again, Mr. Koval
has mentioned his fondest hope — that the
work the directorate is doing will be instru-
mental in seeing that his son, a youngster
of eleven, will never have to go to war.

The directorate’s interpreters are as varied °

26

and colorful a group as the persons they
work for:

Richard A. Steele — a tall, slim chap in
his late “twenties” — is the US member’s
Russian interpreter. Steele was born of
American parents in Harbin, Manchuria,
went through Russian high school, then stud-
ied English at Cambridge. His first visit to
the United States was in 1939, after which
he served in the US Army, saw combat,
and was commissioned. In September 1945,
he was assigned to the US Group Control
Council, and recently converted to civilian
status. His Russian is as good as his English.

The Soviet member’s English interpreter
is young, boyish Lt. W. Talmy, known as
“Tommy.” His father, an engineer, was pur-
chasing agent for the Soviet Union, and
Tommy was born in Brooklyn, where he
went through grammar school. He speaks
American rather than English, often has to
repeat his translations for the British dele-
gation.

FRENCH MEMBER'S INTERPRETER

The French member’s Russian interpreter
is Elaine Tschavtschavadze — a very small
girl for such a long name. Miss Tschavt-
schavadze is reputed to bea genuine Georgian
princess and has a penchant for American
chewing gum. (A cousin of hers is a US
Army lieutenant in OMGUS.) Young, and
with big blue eyes, she speaks her piece in
a high-pitched voice.

The British member’s Russian interpreter
is Harry E. Ward, a Russian emigre who
became a British subject (and changed his
name). Dignified and elderly, he has been a
professional interpreter for many years.
Amongst his associates he is affectionately
known as “Papasha,” or Pop.

Of these four, two have important duties
other than interpreting. Dick Steele is also
a liaison officer for the Economics Director-
ate; Lt. Talmy is also one of the secretaries
for the Soviet delegation.

The members of the directorate and their
interpreters necessarily spend considerable
time together. Mutual respect has developed,
also real friendship. Dinner parties among

--- Page 30 ---
the members are common (which is always
rather hard on the interpreters who must be
ready to translate at a swallow’s notice); and
several times they went hunting together.

To the person sitting in on a regular meet-
ing for the first time, there is little evidence
of such after-hours comraderie. ‘With his
brief before him, a member speaks looking
stolidly at the person addressed. Maybe he
twirls a pencil as he talks, or fingers a ciga-
rette lighter, tapping with it on the table
from time to time to emphasize his remarks.

Of course, there are disagreements. Con-
sidering the diverse political, economic and
social views represented, this is inevitable.
Still, voices are seldom raised. When —
figuratively — a member is pushed into a
corner, his face may flush, his eyes may
flash, his voice may be tinged with iron; but
he never loses his temper.

That does not mean that meetings do not
have their lighter side. Around the ACA, the
Economics Directorate has a reputation for
its sense of humor. During the last meeting
in June, Donald D. Humphrey, General Dra-
per’s Deputy, happened to be heading the
American delegation. When the time came
for deciding the date of the next meeting, the
British member quite unwittingly suggested
4 July. Whereupon Don Humphrey — who
is as quick and keen as he is young — ban-
tered:

“I would not expect my British colleague
to remember our Independence Day, but I
know I can count on the other members of
this committee to see that I have a chance
to celebrate this great American holiday.”
To which the British member replied, “That
is a day we would like to forget!”

On 15 August 1945, two weeks after sign-
ing of the Potsdam Declaration, the Eco-
nomics Directorate met for the first time. It
was “American month” at the ACA and Gen-
eral Draper presided. He is the only one of
the present group who was at that first meet-
ing. René Sergent, the French member then
as he is now, was unable to attend. Major
General S. I. Shabalin was the Soviet rep-
resentative, Sir Percy Mills the British.

27

Between that time and 1 November there
have been 69 meetings of the Economics Di-
rectorate. It has been nerve-wracking, hard
work for all concerned. It is rare for a ses-
sion to wind up before 7 P. M. And last Feb-
ruary, when the postwar level of German
industry was being worked out, the Direct-
orate labored far into the night, sometimes
adjourning only with the dawn.

At that first meeting, on 15 August, there
was considerable discussion about the basic
principles laid down in the Potsdam Decla-
ration. In its 68 meetings since that time,
the Economics Directorate has played a vital
part in endeavoring to implement those prin-
ciples. Once the economic unity of Germany
is reiterated — and made effective — by all
of the four powers, the Economics Directo-
rate will likewise play a vital role in finish-
ing what was begun at Potsdam.

Miners Can Negotiate

German trade unions, on behalf of the
approximately 400,000 German coal miners
throughout Germany, are permitted to
negotiate this month for pay increases not
to exceed 20 percent under provisions of an
amended wage policy approved by the Allied
Control Authority Control Council — last
month. These negotiations mark the first
time in the occupation that an entire German
industry has been permitted to bargain for
better working conditions.

The new pay rates for German miners be-
come effective not later than 1 December.
Increases agreed to after that date will be
retroactive in payment. The average pay in
the coal mining industry will be increased by
not more than 20 percent so that the pay for
miners will in general not be less than the
average wage level in the metal, chemical,
or building industries.

The wage increases will be such that
underground workers receive between 15
and 20 percent more than surface workers.
Workers at the coal face will receive wages
higher than the average of all the other
underground workers.

--- Page 31 ---
A YEAR OF POTSDAM (Continued trom page 13)

minor proceeds being derived from exports
The lack of. coal, of transportation, of a
thousand and one products which a modern

industrial economy demands if it is to sup--

porta population exceeding 66,000,000 peo-
ple, are traceable to the basic fact that there
are today four Germanys instead of one.

The problem of administering a defeated
country which never could completely feed
itself out of its own indigenous resources and
which has no foreign credits with which ti’
pay for its import of raw materials, is not
one to be considered lightly. A Year of
Potsdam goes into considerable detail in
describing the overcoming of. difficulties in

solving this problem. The book reveals how,.

for example, desperately needed cooking and
heating stoves were provided for millions of
partially repaired dwellings in the Zone;
how window glass was produced in Bavaria
for high priority civilian requirements in

Bavaria; how electric power requirements
were met; how tires, tubes and batteries were
turned out; how the Zone’s nitrogen fertilizer
plants were started up; ‘how, in general,
over-all industrial production grew slowly
from perhaps one to two percent of existing
capacity last summer to 40 percent at the
present time.

The book contains articles on the operation

of the Economics and the Reparations,
Deliveries, and Restitution: Directorates,
the restitution of looted cultural, and

other objects, the manner in which the I.G.
Farben cartel was decentralized, the manner
in which the Reparations Plan was hammer-
ed out after many months of negotiations,
the German administration of the US Zone.
There are articles on rationing and price
control, interzonal trade, and the export-
import program. Other documented articles
deal with metals, coal, chemicals, public
utilities, crops, and livestock.

Army -Rases Transportation Shortage

American occupational. authorities strove
to ease a critical ‘situation in the German
economy early this month by providing
trucks and supplies .to supplement . the
indigenous transportation which is inade-

quate to get the civilian food from the

suppliers to the consumers,

A program drafted by USFET and
OMGUS officials allocated about 2,500 Army
trucks and drivers from local military com-
munities to assist in the collection of pota-
toes, sugar beets, cattle, and grain. In
addition, organized truck units of the US
Army were made available to supplement
rail ‘movement of these commodities.

The emergency program also called for
the’ immediate release of 15,000 truck tires
and about 1,600 tubes from US Army stocks
for use on some of the 31,000 German trucks
and trailers now laid up for lack of these
parts. Likewise four depots containing used
truck tires were opened to permit issue of

28

an additional 15,000 unserviceable «but
reparable tires for use in the same program.

A-special allocation, described as “an out-
standing example of cooperation” under, the
bizonal agreements between the US and
British MG’s, provided for the release of
5,0U0 tons of gasoline by the British zonal
authorities to the US Zone for making up
part of the inadequate petroleum supplies
for moving the fall crops and for hauling
fuel wood to the cities before the ean
of freezing weather.

Warning that railroads were falling behind
in meeting their current requirements, the
Director of the Economics Division, OMGUS,
said this delay was throwing a still greater
load on the already strained motor transport
system, which in turn required more POL.
Although the British advance was a help in
meeting the current crisis, a breakdown was
still possible unless steps were: taken to
eliminate all non-essential consumption.

.