--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 64 / 21 OCTOBER 1946

ROSENTHAL CRAFTSMAN

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
HOFGEISMAR

FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR

HOMBERG

LAUTERBACH,
OBER «
LAHNKREIS.

es FRIEDBERG
won QBERTAUNUS|
ae

OFFENBACH

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH ¥ :

HEILBRONN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NFO ON

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

Operation of Dining Cars on Special Trains .

Postal Service Between Displaced Persons in the US Zone of Ger-
many and the United States

Safety Bulletin

Personnel Survey of the Army

Reports and Procedures for Prisoners in Confinement

Check and Search Operations at Road Blocks and Check Points .
Relationships between Military and Civil Government (US Zone) Sub-
sequent to Adoption of Land Constitutions . we

Claims for Settlement — Unused Leave .

Travel of Civilian Personnel who are Paid from Non-Appropriated Funds
Overseas Separations

Rotation of Military Personnel to the US .
Procedure for Shipment of Alien Dependents to the Zone of Interior
Revision of MGR Title 22, Reports and Histories

Confinement and Administration of General and Garrison Prisoners .
Closing of Transient Facilities at Marseille, France .

Ordnance Emergency Service

Civil Affairs in Occupied and Liberated Territory Weekly Digest of

Public Opinion .

Repatriation of Enemy and Ex-Enemy Nationals

AG 531 RMJ-AGO
14 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 311.1 GEC-AGO
21 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 729 PMG-AGO
24 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 201.3 AGO
25 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 253 GAP-AGO
25 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 371.2 GEC-AGO
26 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 010.1 (CA)
30 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 150 AGO
30 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 230.42 GAP-AGQ
3 Oct 1946, USFET:

Circular No. 146
4 Oct 1946, USFET

Circular No. 147
4 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGO
4 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 010.6
7 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Circular No. 149
8 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 620 GAP-AGO
8 Oct 1946, USFET

Circular No. 150
9 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 461 (CO)
10 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 383.7 (PW)
14 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Byers —

ROSENTHAL CRAFTSMAN — The picture on

this week's cover shows an ortist at one of the

two Rosenthal plants in Selb, Bavaria painting a

figurine. For other pictures of the manufacture

of the famous Rosenthal products see “Porce-
_ lain by Rosenthal” on page 14.

~ OUR CONTRIBUTORS

The Disarmament Program is taken from
the Monthly Report of the Military Governor
No. 13. Itis the second of two articles which
the ‘Weekly Information Bulletin” has presented
on the carrying out of the demilitarization
program in the US Zone. :

Material for Denazification: GermanVersion
was compiled by the Public Safety Branch, |LA.&C.
Division, OMGUS, and the article prepared by
Mrs. Marguerite Patton, acting Chief of Reports,

Research and Statistics of the branch. The
article presents data which has developed since
the printing of “Now It's up to the Germans”
in Issue No. 49 of the “Weekly Information
Bulletin“ on 8 July 1946.

Army Outlines Aid to German Youth is
prepared from USFET directive AG 353.8
GCT-AGO. “Army Assistance to German Youth

Activities, US Zone,” 5 October 1946, supple-

mented by material from the script of the official
OMGUS radio broadcast of 9 October to
: MG field detachments.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

The Disarmament Program
Denazification: German Version

Mc Narney Explains Security Situation
Army Outlines Aid for German Youth
Porcelain by Rosenthal

Aims of Bizonal Unity
GENERAL
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
GERMAN REACTIONS

PAGE

14
16

19
24
26

--- Page 7 ---
DISARMAMENT

he Potsdam Agreement called for ‘the

complete disarmament and demilitariza-
tion of Germany and the elimination or con-
trol of all German industry that could be
used for military production.” To these ends,
“all arms, ammunition and implements of
war and all specialized facilities for their
production shall be held at the disposal of
the Allies or destroyed. The maintenance
and production of all aircraft and all arms,
ammunition and implements of war shall be
prevented.” Other production capacity not
needed for permitted production was to be
either destroyed or removed as reparations
in accordance with agreements reached by
the Allies.

The actual control of war material col-
lected during the disarmament of military
units in the US Zone was not difficult, be-
cause in most instances such material was
located in fixed dumps or in depots. The
more difficult problem was the location and
collection of arms held by individuals. To
facilitate the work, the Allied Control Auth-
ority issued Order No. 2, “Confiscation and
Surrender of Arms and Ammunition,” which
prohibited and made unlawful the carrying,
possession or ownership of arms or ammuni-
tion by any German. It required that any-
one having knowledge of the existence in
any place of arms or ammunition not under
Allied control, of any stocks or arms and
ammunition or explosives, or of any instal-
lations manufacturing them must declare

them immediately to the nearest Allied mili-
tary commander.

As a result, with the possible exception of
small caches of arms and ammunition that
may not as yet have been uncovered, all war
materials in the US Zone of Germany have
been taken into custody and their inventory
completed. In addition, an inventory of Ger-
man war materials located in neutral coun-
tries has been initiated.

PROGRESS REPORTS TO ACA

A uniform method of reporting the mater-
ials found in all, four occupation zones was
provided in Control Council Directive No. 28
which called for a semi-annual report to the
Allied Control Authority of the total quan-
tities of certain war materials located to
date. The first US report of the progress on
the survey and disposal of major items of
German war material in the US Zone has
been made for the six-month period ending
1 June 1946.

In general the disposal of all special air
force war materials has been completed.
With the exception of naval ammunition,
disposal of the bulk of special naval war
materials has been completed. At the cur-
rent rate, most of the German army war ma-
terials will have been disposed of by next
January. Considerable amounts of quarter-
master, engineer, signal, transportation and
medical materials have been used by US
military forces to further their occupational

--- Page 8 ---
Wrecked German planes of the once
mighty Luftwaffe in a field near Munich.

needs. A large quantity of weapons, am-
munition and chemical warfare supplies,
coming in a category of materials suitable
for war purposes only and a hazard to the
occupying forces or to public safety and
security, have been destroyed.

The Allied Control Authority, under Di-
rective No. 22, required that all minefields
in Germany be cleared and that fortifications
defensive works and certain other installa-
tions of the German armed forces be destroy-
ed. Destruction in the US Zone has been
made so extensive that it would take more
work to repair the installations than to build
new ones. The work has been undertaken
according to two priorities, the first to be
completed by July 1947 and the second by
July 1951. Priority I included minefields,
various obstacles to communication lines,
fundamental defensive constructions, under-
ground airfield facilities and submarine pens.
Priority II included premanent land and
coastal fortified installations, special weapon
installations such as for V-1 and V-2, fighter
control and radar installations, airfield
and seaplane bases surplus to Allied require-
ments, underground factories, depots and
workshops, air-raid shelters, military scien-
tific research centers, ranges and major strat-
egic bulk POL storage installations.

Signal Corps Photo

The first semi-annual report submitted to
the ACA on the extent of destruction of for-
tifications and defensive works as of 1 June
in the US Zone showed that the survey of
Priority I installations was 100 percent com-
plete and destruction of these installations
70 percent. The survey of Priority II in-
stallations was 95 percent complete and de-
struction of these installations 46 percent.
This work was sufficiently advanced to en-
sure its completion within the allotted period.

FEW FORTICATIONS IN ZONE

The fortifications in the US Zone were
few, consisting mainly of small, widely scat-
tered installations. Minefields have been
80 percent cleared, fundamental defensive
constructions 68 percent destroyed, perma-
nent land fortified installations 66 percent
destroyed, anti-aircraft installations 76 per-
cent destroyed, and all anti-tank obstacles
and V-weapon installations completely de-
siroyed.

In order to accomplish complete demilita-
tization of Germany, all installations of the
German armed forces other than those ac-
counted for in Directive 22 had to be
located and disposed of, and the action re-
ported. These included all installations to
which the right and title was held by, or

--- Page 9 ---
over which command jurisdiction Wwas:exer-
cised by, any German military ofganization.
Most of the “zone-of-interior” installations
now in use in the US Zone are utilized by
US troops in connection with the oceupatig ae
Many of the military barracks are being

to house Displaced Persons. The establish
ments not=zequired for use by the military
are being turned over to Military Government
for conversion to peacetime economy, repa-
rations, outright destruction or temporary
utilization after all necessary demilitarization
work is completed.

Legislation to prevent. any further con-
struction of fortifications and defensive
works has been passed by the Allied Contro:
Authority as Law No. 23. This law prohib-
its and declares illegal in Germany the prep-
aration, planning or making use of plans
or models of any military installations, the
planning, designing, fabrication, erection or
construction of any military installations,
and the planning, designing or erection of
any type of civil construction where any de-
tails in the plan, design, erection or con-
struction could provide for their possible
utilization for war purposes.

LITERATURE CONFISCATED .

By agreement of the Allied Control Au-
thority under Order No. 4, militaristic
literature was to be confiscated and disposed
of. Responsibility for the measures neces-
sary to carry out this work was delegated to
the zone commanders. In the US Zone,
thousands of Nazi and militaristic items
have been pulped to provide paper for nec-
essary school texts and other books critic-
ally needed. All book destruction will
continue to be by pulping; ‘there will be no
book-burning. Sufficient books. will be sav-
ed for research and archival purposes.”

To strike at one of the glaring symbols of
militarism, the Allied Control Authority is-
sued Directive No. 30 which included -pro-
visions for destruction or modification of
military monuments or memorials. which
tend to revive or glorify militarism, or which
commemorate warlike activities .subsequent
to 14 August 1914. Any structures valuable

because of their artistic’or‘ utilitarian char-
acter were, if possible, +6 be modified to
eradicate their monumental features rather
than be destroyed.:. . “Responsibility for the
measures necessary te carry out this work
‘was also delegated to the zone commanders.

CONTRO SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH

‘An importa ‘aepect of destroying German
militarism and’ ‘preventing* Hs. rebirth, as
specified in the Potsdam Agreement, is the
control of séiéntific research. This is ex-
plicity provided for by Control Council Law
No. 25, “Scientific Research Control,” pro-
claimed by the Allied Control Authority on
7 May 1946. The law specifically .prohibits
all research activities, both fundamental and
applied, which might result in the develop-
ment of a German war potential. It also
controls rigidly those research activities
which, though directed toward peaceful pur-
suits, could be converted to war. This in-
cludes research on industrial explosives, syn-
thetic oil and rubber, radio-activity, ball and
roller bearings.

All research establishments in the US Zone
and their, equipment are now being surveyed.
Those which were devoted to war purposes
are to be dissolved and their buildings and
equipment of a purely military character
destroyed, removed or converted to peace-
time uses; all technical personnel em-
ployed by research establishments are to be
registered. with the zone commander and to
be controlled in all of their activities.

One of the primary objectives in the Pots-
dam Agreement is the suppression of Ger-
man industrial war potential. The control
of industry is highly important to this ob-
jective because of the nature of modern war-
fare, which must completely. mobilize in-
dustry, _The Allied. Control Authority has
directed the Service Directorates to serve in
consultative capacity.to the Economic Direc-
torates with. respect to. the liquidation of
German industrial. war potential. The -re-
construction of German -industry.is thereby
to.. be constantly scrutinized to avoid the
creation of any military potential.

Quadripartite agreement has been reached

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 10 ---
DENAZIFICATION:

he records of 10,276,000 Germans in the

US Zone are being reviewed by German
authorities under the German Law for
Liberation from National Socialism and Mil-
itarism to determine their innocence or in-
volvement in Nazi activities. Those believed
involved in such activities are being brought
before legally-constituted German Tribunals
for establishment of the proof of their
involvement and for determination of the
penalty for their part in putting the Nazi
yoke on Germany.

With the enactment of the law in each of
the three Laender of the US Zone, the Ger-
mans took over in mid-June the major part
of the job of denazification in the American
occupied portion of Germany. It became the
German responsibility and it was up to the
Germans themselves to see that their denazi-
fication procedure was effective. In spite
of initial difficulties in selecting personnel,
providing indoctrination, obtaining quarters,
equipment and supplies, the machinery was
giving evidence of functioning smoothly and
its operations showed marked acceleration.

By the end of August, 386 Trial Tribunals
and six Appellate Tribunals were functioning.
There were 5,600 persons employed in the
implementation of the law. Of the total of
10,276,000 registrations received by the end
of August, Public Prosecutors found approx-
imately 4,000,000 persons apparently not
chargeable under the law, filed or were in
the process of filing charges against 364,000
persons, and had not determined the status
of approximately 6,000,000 cases.

During August, the Tribunals completed
18,250 cases, making a total of 29,000 com-
pleted during the two and half months of

--- Page 11 ---
operation. The backlog of cases pending
before the Tribunals was already 41,000.
The acceleration during August was illus-
trated in Wuerttemberg-Baden where cases
completed increased from 1,030 in July to
7,110 in August. The backlog of cases in
Greater Hesse decreased from 14,170 at the
end of July to 10,610 at the close of August.

Of the cases completed during August, 57
were found to be Major Offenders, 459
Offenders, 1,560 Lesser Offenders (Pro-
bationers), 13,390 Followers and 1,837 “Per-
sons Exonerated.”

CHARGES AND FINDINGS COMPARED :

There was a noticeable difference between
the classes in which the Prosecutors placed
the persons charged, and the subsequent
determinations of the Tribunals. On the
basis of the combined figures for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and Greater Hesse (those for
Bavaria not being available for comparison
purposes), the Tribunals made findings
identical with the charges of the Prosecutors
in four percent of the cases charged as
Major Offenders, in 16 percent of cases
charged as Offenders, and in 45 percent of
the cases charged as Lesser Offenders
(Probationers). Out of 1,198 classified as
Offenders by Public Prosecutors, one case
was found to be a Major Offender by a
Tribunal, and of 636 cases charged as Lesser
Offenders, seven were found to be Offenders.

All those found in August to be Major
Offenders and 237 of the 459 found to be
Offenders received labor camp sentences as
directed by the law. Although the law
states that both Lesser Offenders and Fol-
lowers “shall be ordered to pay single or
recurrent contributions to funds for repara-
tions,” 293 of the 1,267 Lesser Offenders
and 505 of the 12,885 Followers did not pay
monetary fines, although this may be account-
ed for, in part, by the practice of working
out fines.

An interesting comparison is also present-
ed in approximately 29,500 cases completed
by the Tribunals of persons whose Frage-
bogen had previously been reviewed by

Special Branch. of Military. Government.
There is no connection. between the actions
taken following the reviews of Special
Branch and the decisions of the Tribunals.

Of these 29,500 cases, the Tribunals found
348 persons, or one percent, to be Major
Offenders or Offenders; 747, or three per-
cent, to be Lesser Offenders (Probationers);
approximately 7,000 or. 23 percent, to be:
Followers; and 1,370, or five percent, to be
Persons Exonerated./ The remaining 20, 116
were found not chargeable by the Pablie ;
Prosecutors. 3

Of the same total, Special Branch had
placed 3,847, or 13 percent, in the “Non-
Employment Mandatory” category; 1,896,
or six percent, in the “Employment Discret-
ionary — Adverse Recommendation” cate-
gory; 5,843, or 20 percent, in the “Employ-
ment Discretionary — No Adverse Recom-
mendation” category; and 17,909, or 61
percent, in the “Non-Nazi” or “Anti-Nazi”
categories. However, of 3,847 cases placed
by the Special Branch in the “NomEmploy-
ment Mandatory” group, 80 percent had
their employment sanctions removed by the
Tribunals.

EVALUATION NOT YET POSSIBLE

Special Branch officials pointed out that
while on the surface it would appear that
the Tribunals were proving more lenient in
their. decisions than Special Branches were
in their findings with respect to the same
cases and more lenient than the Public
Prosecutors in their charges, it was too early
to draw conclusions as to trends, and a fully
representative sample would have to be
assured before evaluation of the ‘“denazi-
fication” procedures could be made.

A case taken from the records’ of a Bav-
arian Trial Tribunal was cited ‘by Special
Branch, OMGUS, as reasonably typical. The
proceedings were against a 50-year-old
teacher in an industrial school. He had been
a party member since 1 May 1933, propa-
ganda leader from |1938 to 1945, member of
the NS Lehrerbund (teachers’. organization)
1935 to 1940 at) its trustee 1937—40, NSV

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 12 ---
Constabulary troops, one of the four security agencies available fo the
Theater Commander, man an armored car near Sandhofen, Germany.

Gus Joseph T. McNarney, Theater
Commander and Military Governor,
made public his intelligence summary for
the week ending 3 October. The summary
and a general statement on the security situa-
tion in the US Zone follows:

Gradual improvement in the over-all se-
curity situation was again noted during the
current period. Although a general lower
level of security incidents was attained, those
incidents involving weapons were conspicu-
ous in field reports. The problem of reset-
tling German refugees becomes increasingly
more difficult, and opposition to this program
by local Germans, already manifest, is ex-
pected to increase. However, during the cur-
rent period no major disorders, sabotage, re-
sistance or subversive activities were reported.

T have four specific agencies at my dis-

posal which assist in the maintenance of se-

ic NARNEY EXPLAINS
ECURITY SITUATIG

curity. These are:

1. The German Police whose mission is to
control the civilian population and enforce
laws and regulations of Military Government.

2. US Constabulary whose mission is to
maintain general military and civil security
by means of an active patrol system prepar-
ed to forestall riots, rebellions, acts prej-
udicial to the security of the US occupational
policies as well as effective military control
of the borders encompassing the US Zone.

3. The Military Police whose primary
mission is the preservation of law and order
among armed forces personnel and enforce-
ment of military laws and regulations. Sec-
ondary mission of the military police is to
protect military personnel and all civilians
from violence, apprehend absentees, recover
lost, stolen and abandoned military property
and in cooperation with other enforcement

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 13 ---
agencies, to assist in all security measures.
The criminal investigation division of the
military police investigates crimes connected
with military and civilian personnel and for
this purpose maintains a scientific criminal
laboratory equal to those maintained in the
United States.

4, The Counter Intelligence Corps whose
primary mission is the security of US inter-
est in the European Theater against espion-
age, sabotage and subversion and to support
Military Government. Secondary missions
include the location and apprehension of the
war criminal element and the screening of
persons applying for immigration to the
United States.

I have directed that the CIC be alert at
all times to discover and report any con-
dition or set of conditions which may affect
the security of the US occupation. This must
naturally include points of friction within
the civilian populations which may encourage
them to resist the occupation authorities or
to adopt active subversive means. Thus, as
has happened, when civilians resist the ord-
ers of occupation authorities in the housing
of refugees, it is imperative that this head-
quarters be informed at once. I have further
directed that in the pursuit of its primary
mission the CIC must take cognizance of any
influx of persons into US Zone since the op-
portunities for inclusion of persons with sub-
versive intent in such movements are readily
apparent.

PROBLEM OF GERMAN REFUGEES

The statement I quoted above from my in-
telligence summary makes specific reference
to the resettlement of German refugees. This
group is actually the least important of the
categories of people involved in the pop-
ulation’ movements which have taken place
subsequent to the war. The refugees consist
of Germans who at the termination of hos-
tilities were living in a zone which was not
their official residence. These people are’ be-
ing exchanged over zonal frontiers under
military supervision in an orderly and equi-
table manner. These population exchanges in
and out of the US Zone alone have involved

10

since 8 May 1945 a total of 1,850,000 in-
dividuals. Prospective exchanges include
400,000 persons of whom the majority will
probably remain in the US Zone.

The second group in importance are ex-
pellees or persons of German descent being
sent into Germany from the East— in the case
of the US Zone these are Sudetens from Czech-
oslovakia and Austria and Swabians from
Hungary. We have already received in the
US Zone over 1,000,000 expellees. We still
have a commitment to receive approximately
1,000,000 but it is not likely that all of those
will actually be expelled.

These two groups represent a vast burden
on the rescurces of our greatly overpopulated
zone.

MOST IMPORTANT CATEGORY

The first groups in importance are still
United Nations Displaced Persons. Many
thousands of these people have been repat-
riated but many thousands also remain in the
US Zone pending their permanent ‘resettle-
ment. Our over-all displaced persons camp
population was 315,000 the first of this year.
By the middle of last month this population
regardless of our repatriation efforts had
slowly risen to more than 422,000 with an
additional 125,000 living outside of Displac-
ed Persons centers but potentially eligible
for such care. This increase in displaced
persons population consists largely’ of ‘Per-
secutees’ who infiltrated into the Zone from
the East.

I am now accepting the Jewish infiltrees
of Poland in planned shipments from Austria.
They are placed for a few days in transient
camps until arrangements can be made to
send them to more satisfactory installations
of a semi-permanent type. I believe that
the Jews coming into the Zone from the East
have been misinformed as to our conditions
here. Whether this information comes from
Jewish agencies in Poland or other sources I
cannot say. However, I have taken steps to
inform all agencies in contact with the Jew-
ish population in Poland of the real situation
in our Zone.

--- Page 14 ---
CoS of US Army personnel in the
Military Government program for youth
activities in the US Zone is directed in a
new USFET publication which asserts that
“these potential leaders of tomorrow’s Ger-
many cannot build on a democratic founda-
tion without receiving from us such positive
assistance as they themselves desire or vol-
untarily accept.”

Addressed primarily io Occupation troops,
the directive, however, calls on other US
military and civilian personnel and their de-
pendents in the Theater to assist in the mis-
sion of teaching and demonstrating American
democracy to German youth. The purpose of
this assistance program is stated as follows:

“Long-range policies formulated by the
Office of Military Government for Germany
(US) are calculated to place primary re-
sponsibility upon Germans and their institu-
tions and agencies for the development of a
peaceful and democratic country. Consistent

This group of girls belonging to a German youth organization in Zie-
gensberg recieves transportation for their meetings from the US Army.

Signal Corps Photo

application of this policy requires recognition
of the basic importance of the German Land
and Kreis youth committees and German
youth organizations which exist throughout
the US Zone. The assistance program of the
Army is intended to strengthen these com-
mittees and organizations as well as to assist
in the organization of additional groups.

POSITIVE MILITARY MISSION

“Although primary responsibility for re-
education and for youth activities continues
to rest with Military Government, active
assistance to organized and unorganized Ger-
man youth is a positive military mission of
all occupational forces. The reeducation and
rehabilitation of German youth is one of the
most important tasks now to be accomplish-
ed. Results obtained will be in proportion to
that degree in which leadership and vision
are exhibited.

“This program, applicable to male and

--- Page 15 ---
female Germans primarily between the ages
10—18 has the immediate objective of re-
ducing juvenile delinquency in the US Zone
and the long-range. objective of demonstrat-
ing and teaching democratic concepts to those

Germans who may, in the years to come,.

guide their country to membership in a peace-
ful family of nations.”

MG RESPONSIBILITIES ‘DESCRIBED

The USFET directive provides that the
assistance given by the various military com-
mands will be within the organizational pat-
tern and policy established by OMGUS
(MGR 8-700 to 750), but advises care must
be taken to prevent duplication of effort and
confusion as to the responsibilities and func-
tions of US personnel. MG responsibilities
for youth activities are described as follows:

1. Developing policy and standards gov-
erning all youth activities; 2. designating
German officials who will be held responsible
for organization and reports; 3. approving
membership in German youth committees
and approving leaders and sponsors of youth
groups; 4. approving applications for the
forming of the youth organizations; 5. su-
pervising and checking continually on the ac-
tivities of the youth organizations; 6. en-
forcing all MG regulations governing the
operation of youth groups, including member-
ship requirements, and prohibitions regarding
wearing of uniforms and other forbidden ac-
tivities.

PARTICIPATION BY ARMY COMMANDS

The, Army commands are advised to par-
ticipate in the program by: 1. Establishing
close liaison with the education and religious
affairs division of the Laender offices of MG;
2. offering positive assistance to German
youth leaders and German youth committees
in the appropriate Kreis and Land; 3. as-
certaining from German youth leaders and
German youth committees the needs of their
organizations and sharing the necessary fa-
cilities for the implementation of the activi-
ties program; 4. encouraging, in a positive
manner, military personnel in the units to
take an active part in assisting German youth

12

organizations; 5. assisting approved youth
committees to sponsor appropriate activities;
6. sponsoring informal events such as picnics,
motion pictures and excursions, which re-
quire neither the participation of German or-
ganizations nor the authorization of MG; 7.
encouraging the initiation of activities which
interest youth and which may result later in
their organization; 8. reporting to the Educa-_
tion and Religious Affairs Branch or division
of the Land MG all violations of regulations
governing the youth organizations; 9. con-
vening periodic conferences in appropriate
commands to discuss the operation of the
program.

RELATIONSHIP TO COMMITTEES

After describing the functions of the Ger-
man Land, Kreis and other youth committees,
the directive explains the Army’s’ relation-
ship with these committees as follows:

“Organized German youth may indicate
their specific needs to their local youth com-
mittee, which may request assistance from
local Army units. Unorganized youth groups
may appeal directly to Army units for as-
sistance provided that, when the groups
reach the stage of organization, contact will
be made with the German youth committee
for approval. After approval of. the youth
groups, appeals for assistance may be made
to Army units through the youth committee.
In the event that the youth group, organized
or unorganized, is unable to enlist the sym-
pathetic cooperation and aid of a local youth
committee, the Army should endeavor to en-
list such cooperation from the committee,
failing which it shall report the facts to Edu-
cation and Religious Affairs Branch or div-
ision office of Military Government for the
Land. Until such time as a new youth com-
mittee becomes operative, direct requests for
assistance may be filled by local Army units.”

Lateral liaison with corresponding MG
offices is authorized and encouraged. De-
nazification of German leadership personnel
is to be in accordance with standards applied
to teachers. Coordination is to be maintained
with other agencies, particularly the German

--- Page 16 ---
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART, GERMAN

RESPONSIBILITY

YOUTH PROGRAM

ASSISTANCE

~~ BOLIGY_ SUPERVISION

COORDINATION

& COOPERATION

LOCAL Ci

youth committee, US Constabulary and Mil-
itary Police. The spirit as well as the letter
of the directive is to be explained to all
military personnel.

In addition to the qualified youth experts
in the higher echelons, major commands will
direct subordinate commands to assign per-
sonnel whose sole duty is to implement Army
assistance to the program. In a division or
equivalent, the personnel will consist of at
least one field grade officer and appropriate
staff; in a regiment or battalion, one officer
and appropriate assistants; in a company or
equivalent, one qualified non-commissioned
officer.

SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT

Based on the economic principle of helping
the Germans to help themselves, the Army
directive provides that “supplies and equip-
ment be made available for use of German
youth in the largest volume consistent with
total availability and other essential require-
ments,” and that quantitative accounts on
such items be maintained for which Germany

OORDINATION

13

COMMAND

will be billed at a later date. Supplies and
equipment can be made available from in-
digenous supplies, captured enemy material
in excess of theater requirements, unit sup-
plies and organizational equipment.

The use of military vehicles in connection
with German youth activities is authorized
and encouraged when such use does not inter-
fere with the execution of other essential oc-
cupational missions. There is no objection to
ihe voluntary donation of food and non-al-
coholic beverages by American personnel to
German youth when such food and beverages
are consumed in the presence of the donors.
It is directed that there be established in the
vicinity of each military community a suit-
able building for the exclusive use of Ger-
man youth groups, in addition to part-time
use of churches, schools and other public
buildings. The re-establishment of the youth
hostel network is also encouraged.

“Athletics offer a field in which a great

number of US personnel are well qualified,”

the directive states. “Athletics may well be
utilized as a means of establishing contact

(Continued on page 18)

—-——— COORDINATION AND ASSISTANCE

--- Page 17 ---
T’ pictures on these two pages show activity
at one of the two Rosenthal porcelain plants
in Selb, Bavaria. Rosenthal has been famous
for its designed dinnerware and. figurines
since the 1880’s. when Philipp Rosenthal
organized ihe many indepedent craftsmen of
the Selb area into what was to become the
largest producer of porcelain in Germany.
The plant and equipment at Selb were
not damaged by the war but a lack of
imported raw materials including ‘clay, coal
and decorating material has limited produc-
tion to 35-40 percent of its pre-war level.

Of this output 70 percent goes to meet oc-
cupation needs with the remainder filling
minimum civilian requirements. In the near
future a percentage of Rosenthal production
will be allocated for export to the United
States.

(Above) A worker places molded clay into a sealed
refactory box (sagger) prior to placing it in the kiln
or oven where it is fired and glazed; (above right)
a worker removes the sagger from the oven where
it has remained for approximately seven days;
(right) an artist applies decorative coloring to the
porcelain. Photos by Byers

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
tion of

for Economics of its responsibiljtig
ministering the combined ec
particularly in the fields of ecé#omic plan-
ning, distribution of goods, price control,
foreign and internal trade.

The Executive Committee for Economics
is one of the five administrative organiza-
tions being established by the Germans of
the two zones under the guidance of the
Military Governments of the United King-
dom and the United States. The establish-
ment of these bizonal agencies is a step to-
ward attainment of the aim of the Potsdam
Agreement for treatment of Germany as an
economic unity.

With its permanent headquarters located
at Minden, Westphalia, British Zone, the
Executive Committee for Economics is com-
posed of three German economic experts for
each of the two participating zones. From the
US Zone are Dr. Ludwig Erhardt, minister
of economics, Bavaria; Dr. Heinrich Koehler,
economic minister for Wuerttemberg-Baden,
and Dr. Hermann Hilpert, minister of eco-
nomics for Greater Hesse. The British Zone is
represented by Dr. Hans Kuhnert, head of the
economic administration, Schleswig-Holstein;
Dr. Erik Nolting, minister of economics,
North Rhine-Westphalia, and Dr. Victor
Agariz, head of the Central Office for
Economics (Zentralamt fuer Wirtschaft).

16

As chairman of the executive committee
and head of the administrative office of the
agency is Dr. Rudolf Mueller, who resigned
as minister of economics of Greaier Flesse
to devote his entire time to his new duties.
Dr. Mueller had been Greater Hesse econom-
ic minister since the Land was established
by MG more than a year ago. In recent
months he also acted as chairman of the
Economics Council of the Laenderrat of the
US Zone in Stuttgart and took a prominent
part in inter-zonal trade negotiations among
German officials in the Soviet, British and
US Zones.

COMMITTEE’S GOALS OUTLINED

The immediate and long-iange goals of
the economic committee were outlined by
Brig. Gen. William H. Draper, Jr., Director
of the Jconomics Division, OMGUS, and by
Sir Cecil Weir, representative of the British
MG, at. the committee’s initial meting
11 October at Minden. Both told the com-
mitiee that their MG’s would cooperate in
solving pressing German economic problems
but added that eventually these problems
must be solved by the Germans themselves.

The spokesmen of the two MG authorities
stressed that Germany must seck to expand
her exports to pay for her iraports, as nei-
ther Great Britain nor the United States
could be expected to continue indefinitely
iaporting food into Germany at their own
expense. Food, coal and stecl were listed
as constituting the three major economic

--- Page 20 ---
needs in the immediate future.

Pointing out that “the old order has pas-
sed and the new order is on,” General Dra-
per said, “The economic destiny of nearly
forty million of your people will become
your responsibility ... You are the men
who must lead and guide the economic re-
covery of a large part of Germany. -You
must chart the course toward peaceful and
democratic objectives. You must plan and
achieve a tolerable and gradually rising
standard of living for your people.”

REQUIRED EXPORTS AND IMPORTS

In pointing toward the future, General
Draper said, “1 suggest to your committee
that you lay out a goal or target for need-
ed imports and required exports for the
next three to five years — broadly those
things needed by Germans for a tolerable
standard of living that must come from
abroad — first, food; second, certain kinds
of fertilizers; third, gasoline and other pe-
troleum products; fourth, cotton and wool
and other raw materials needed for textiles
and other manufactured goods, and so forth
— a list of things and quantities which you
visualize will be needed for a minimum
economy.

“On the other side of the balance sheet
list those products which can be manufactur-
ed' and ‘can be exported and can be sold.
The world has a great shortage of consumers
goods today. For the next year or two it
should be possible to sell basic manufactur-
ed commodities of almost all kinds in almost
all parts of the world to the extent of great
quantities. After that’ the competition may
be more severe, but this is the opportunity
and the time to make a real start.

“To furnish exports means tightening Ger-
many’s belt. It means giving up the prod-
ucts of your factories in order to bring
in certain food products, and a definite plan
must be laid down if it is to succeed. I
suggest that immediately a plan for the
year 1947, in detail, be prepared. Our
people and the similar export-import people
on the British side have been preparing cer-

17

tain plans in a preliminary way and we
will be glad to be of whatever help we can
in working out recommendations, but ‘we
would like the plan to come from you in
the first place.”

Sir Cecil’ Weir, after expressing agree-
ment with the suggestions made by the
American representative, said, “I see a two-
fold significance in the new development
which we are inaugurating today, first a
drive towards greater German economic
unity and the abolition of one of the zonal
barriers inside Germany, and second, a
speeding up of the process of handling in-
creased power and responsibilities from the
occupation authorities to suitable German
agencies . . . Germany is still in the throes
of a life and death struggle, and we are
entering upon a winter that may prove the
most challenging one of German history. We
will need your wholehearted cooperation and
you will need our support.”

He urged the committee to face the econom-
ic situation with “a, high deoree of fore-
thought and planning, translated into prac-
tice by an efficient system of economic
measures of numerous kinds, backed by
reliable statistics.” He advised the committee
to “make your people so coal-conscious that
a sufficient number of able-bodied Germans
will consider it a patriotic duty to become
coal miners,” pointing out that the recent
reduced industrial output was due almost
entirely to lack of coal. :

IMPORTANCE OF GERMAN COAL

“Naturally,” he continued, “we must re-
serve the right to ensure that essential coal
exports from Germany will continue. Many
countries of Europe, all the more as a result
of damage which the war has caused to their
economies, are dependant on import of Ger-
man coal. But you can take it as certain
that if more.coal is produced in Germany,
more coal will stay in Germany. You realize,
of course, that such German coal as does
leave Germany goes as German export and
not as reparations. It helps to pay for es-
sential German imports.”

--- Page 21 ---
YOUTH PROGRAM (Continued from page 13)

with German youth and of demonstrating
fair play but care should be taken in ensure
that athletics are not used for such ends as
may be incompatible with our occupational
mission . . . With Americans the objectives
are good health, training in fair play and
teamwork.”

Sports and games recommended are bi-
cycling, golf, hiking, mountain climbing, play-
ground ball and baseball, rowing, canoeing,
skiing, sledding, skating, ice-hockey, soccer,
rugby, football, basketball, handball, volley-
ball, badminton, tennis, hockey, swimming,
track and field events, wrestling and boxing.
Sports activities specifically prohibited are
aviation, parachuting, gliding, fencing, mil-
itary or para-military drill or display, or
shooting with firearms.

FUND-RAISING EXHIBITIONS

Inter-US and Allied team exhibitions are
permitted for raising funds for the exclusive
benefit of German youth. Competitive games
and sports between American troops and
German youth are authorized and encourag-
ed provided the contests are held on a strict-
ly amateur basis and spectators, if any, are
not charged adminsion.

A practical and extensive program of vo-
cational training is being planned by MG.
Vocational training should include maximum
utilization of visual aids. Assistance in
agrarian pursuit is recommended and in-
formal trade and handicraft classes should
be encouraged. The following subjects,
among others, are considered appropriate:
‘Wood-carving, leathercraft, metalwork, mas-
onry, carpentry, plumbing, weaving, cob-
bling, clothing and tent repair, engineer con-
struction, automotive, machinery appliance
and instrument repair.

Assistance to German youth in cultural,
educational and religious fields is encourag-
ed. Carefully selected books and periodicals
will be made available. Suitable educational
motion pictures will be utilized to the fullest
as a means of illustrating the democratic

18

way of life. Simple dramatics requiring
minimum equipment is desirable. Forums,
discussion groups, panels, round-table con-
ferences and lectures will be encouraged. In
this field close liaison is to be maintained
with MG and with Information Control of-
fices for advice and information of control
regulations.

With the issuance of the directive by
USFET, some interesting facts were being
made public by MG Youth Sections concern-
ing activities for the two million young pers-
ons of 10 to 18 years of age in the US oc-
cupied areas of Germany. Of this total
youth population over 23 percent were mem-
bers of officially approved youth groups, as
compared with 24 percent during the Wei-
mar Republic.

Religious groups have the largest member-
ship, while sport groups are a close second.
There are other groups such as Youth Hostel
Associations, the Boy and Girl Scout types
of organizations, YMCA, YWCA, trade union
youth groups, and handicraft clubs. In all,
there are more than 3,000 groups organized
either within the Kreis or at Land levels.
No group is permitted to organize above the
Land level.

COURSES IN YOUTH LEADERSHIP

In many parts of the Zone, youth leader-
ship training courses and conferences have
been sponsored. The youth committee at
Kassel is conducting its third leadership
training course, in which 170 persons have
been enrolled. The Comburg training school
in Wuerttemberg-Baden has a program for
leaders of all types of youth organizations.
There are several training programs in Bav-
aria, of which the most recent have been
held near Berchtesgaden and Garmish.

As guests of US units, German youth are
attending free showings of approved Amer-
ican and German motion pictures in Greater
Hesse. Nearly a dozen youth magazines and
papers are being distributed within the US
Zone with a circulation of more than half a
million.

--- Page 22 ---
Housing Survey Scheduled

The resident population of Greater Hesse
and Wuerttemberg-Baden will be subjected
to a survey of their housing conditions in
conjunction with the forthcoming population
census scheduled for 29 October. Special
housing sheets have been sent out in the
Lands and are to be completed along with
the population census questionniare. Bavaria
has not adopted a similar program because
a previous housing survey was conducted
among her population a few months ago.

The Manpower Directorate of the Allied
Control Authority has recommended that
German authorities obtain the following
information from the inhabitants: resident
population, number of rooms of undamaged
normal housing space, number of rooms of
damaged repairable housing space number
of persons living in other than normal or
repairable housing space and the number of
habitable dwelling units.

An OMGUS directive, “Housing Informa-
tion” AG 60 (MD) dated 10 October 1946,
outlines the procedure to be followed in
taking this survey and defines ihe questions
to be answered and then compiled by the
Land. This information on housing will be
used by the various Directorates in finding
solutions to problems involving expellees
and the allocation of labor and industry.

Denazification Tribunals

The organizational program of the de-
nazifacation tribunals was 92 percent com-
plete in Greater Hesse, 74 percent in Wuert-
temberg-Baden and 75 percent in Bavaria.
according to reporis to the Public Safety
Branch, I.A.&C. Division, OMGUS, from the
land ministers of political liberation on
25 September. There were 407 tribunals in
operation in the US Zone.

During the period 11 to 25 September,

19

15,624 cases were filed with the 1
tribunals, bringing the total io 63,560.
of the latier date, 53,402 cases had been
completed, or 57 percent of the total filed.
In the entire Zone, there are 577 chair-
men, 6,449 assessors, 584 public prosecutors,
3,777 employees of the public prosecutors
and 380 employees of the ministries for
political liberation.

Wage Policy Clarified

German women are to receive the same
wages as men if they are doing identical
work and if their productivity is equal, ac-
ording to a recent statement issued by
OMGUS clarifying its wage policy in Ger-
many. In addition, wage increases have been
approved in certain industries where wages
are out of line with those of other industries,
and zone commanders are now permitted to
reclassify wages in industrial areas where
an abnormal economic factor warrants such
action.

The statement further points out that
wages less than 50 pfennigs per hour in any
industry can now be raised to that level,
that any reclassification of industrial areas
will be determined by the Manpower
Division of MG, and that if, increases in
wages of some indusiries cause requests for
a corresponding increase in prices, the Ger-
man Office of Price Control is to be informed
in advance so that necessary steps may be
taken to find a satisfactory solution. Wage
adjustments are to be permissible and not
mandatory, and it is intended that they
should ordinarily be accomplished through
collective bargaining between tirade unions
and employers or employers associations.

The new policy, effective at once, is an
expansion of action taken by the Allied Co-
ordinating Committee in September when
the Committee amended Directive No. 14
which sets forth the Allied wage policy in
Germany. Commenting on these changes the

--- Page 23 ---
Manpower Division announced, “In general
the principle of the wage freeze is retained.
The changes in Directive No. 14 will not
affect the majority of wage earners and are

. consistent with the policy of maintaining
current wage and price levels.”

Small Gardens Cooperative

Large quantities of fresh gardet food are
now being distributed to an estimated 160,000
people-in Wuerttemberg-Baden as a result of
a small gardens cooperative program spon-
sored by MG since last February.

Operating since 1918 and given impetus
by MG, the cooperative now has a total of
40,000 members who individually lease an
average of 200 to 300 square meters of land
each year from the cooperative at a rental
fee of one and a half to three RM per 100
square meters in the country areas. The
funds thus collected by the cooperative are
used to buy tools, seed, fertilizer and other
necessities for the production of vegetables.
In addition, the cooperative sponsors various
lectures and instruction on gardening prin-
ciples and also publishes the magazine “Der
Gartenfreund” with a monthly distribution
of 20,000 copies.

British Zone Briefs

Forty million units of penicillin have been
confiscated in Hamburg by Military Govern-
ment authorities following discovery of the
drug in the house of a Hamburg resident.
Based on present expenditures this is
equivalent to a two or three months supply
for the entire British Zone.

An exhibition of treasures from a number
of Berlin museums, whose contents were in
part evacuated to what is now the British
Zone of Germany, is open in Schloss Celle,
Hanover, and will continue until 3 Novem-
ber. The exhibition will consist of Greek and
Roman material including ceramics, - glass-
ware, jewelry and gems.

A delegation from youth organizations in
the United Kingdom is visiting the British
Zone to survey youth activities and make
recommendations to the Education Branch

20

of IA&C Division. The delegation is studying
particularly work among girls, since boys
activities have been covered by two previous
surveys.

The British Military Hospital at. Rissen
has been handed back to the German civil
authorities with sufficient beds remaining
to accomodate approximately 600 medical
cases, transferred from other hospitals, thus
making room for tuberculosis cases in those
vacated.

The 33rd Information Center in the British
Zone, one of many which are rapidly cover-
ing the whole of the zone and supplying the
Germans with British publications, daily
newspapers and news pictures in addition to
their own newspapers, has been opened at
Herford.

Public Opinion Digest

Faster distribution of the “Civil Affairs
in Occupied and Liberated Territory —
Weekly Digest of Public Opinion” through-
out the US Zone has been assured by OM-
GUS in an arrangement to have photo
negatives of the publication airmailed to
Berlin and printed there. The publication
includes American newspaper stories, articles
and editorials and radio comments on US
occupation in Germany.

Reproduction in Berlin will not only
make possible distribution of the Digest
much sooner after its date of issue, but will
also enable supplying the various offices of
Military Government with many more
copies than they have been receiving, ac-
cording to an OMGUS directive of 10 Oc-
tober 1946.

The number of copies for distribution was
determined arbitrarily by OMGUS head-
quarters and the initial issue went only to
the main offices of the Divisions and Laen-
der. However, as each Liaison and Security
Detachment should receive at least one copy
of the Digest, the Publications Section of the
Office of the Adjutant General, OMGUS,
should be advised as to the number of copies
desired and the proper addresses of the
ultimate recipients. i

--- Page 24 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

A self-liquidating import program” has
been arranged with Belgium whereby the
Belgians will supply Egyptian cotton to be
processed in the US Zone. All the finished
goods will be returned to Belgium and cot-
ton of like grades and staple will be deliver-
ed in payment for the processing costs.

Special Reichsbank Authorization No. 18,
pertaining to coin collections, outlines the
procedure to be followed for classifying
such collections as cultural objects for the
purpose of MG Law No. 52 which deals
with the blocking and control of property.

C/ THOLIC YOUTH GROUP

An Organization for Catholic Youth was
founded at the recent Catholic youth confer-
ence in Fulda. The Catholic Youth Week re-
sulted in the largest groups of young people
to be assembled in Greater Hesse since the
start of occupation.

Approval has been given for the establish-
ment in Frankfurt and Darmstadt of two
community centers by the American Friends
Service Committee under the auspices of the
Council of Relief Agencies Licensed to Oper-
ate in Germany. They will be staffed by
German personnel and will use supplies
furnished by the American Quakers.

WEATHER FORECASTS

German licensed newspapers have receiv-
ed permission to print weather forecasts
received direct from regional forecasting
stations in the US Zone.

Restitution of 50 carloads of miscellaneous
property to Czechoslovakia included 3,000
spinning nozzles. Receipt of this equipment
will facilitate the reopening of an artificial
silk factory employing 2,500 persons.

Because of the US maritime strike, no
food imports for German civilians arrived
at Bremen during the first five days of Oc-
tober. However, five ships with about 27,000
gross long tons of breadgrains and flour and
1,000 tons of other foods were scheduled

21

for early arrival.

In conjunction with the present military
traffic safety drive, all city and rural police
in Bavaria are currently fostering traffic
safety programs.

The banking board of the Magistrat of
Berlin has instructed the Berlin Stadtkontor
to correct its published balance sheets and
in the future to report the total of Allied
deposits as RM 82,000,000 rather than RM
75,000,000. This correction will reveal that
the US original investment in the Stadt-
kontor was RM 32,000,000, in contrast to
the RM 25,000,000 each deposited by the
British and Soviet MG’s.

The first export of Leica cameras direct
to America since before the war was ne-
gotiated with the purchase by a New York
company of 86,700 dollars worth of the cam-
eras through the US Commercial Company.

INTERZONAL TRANSFER OF FUNDS

Arrangements were made for the Berlin
Stadtkontor to report transfer of funds from
the Soviet Zone to each of the western zones
and from each of the western zones to the
Soviet Zone. This change in reporting en-
ables OMGUS for the first time to follow
seperately payments between the Soviet and
US Zones and between Berlin and the US
Zone.

About 100 students of Frankfurt Univer-
sity were present at the first meeting of
Friends of America, a discussion group. It
was decided to divide the group into two
discussion sections, one meeting on Tuesday
nights and the other on Friday nights.

Many troop units in Wuerttemberg-Baden
have chosen one day each week on which
special emphasis is given to German youth
activities. On these designated days, boys
and girls are entertained by picnics, movies,
sports and other forms of amusement. Also
Army athletic teams are inviting German
youth to work out with them at their prac-
tice sessions.

--- Page 25 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed. for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted circu-
lars, letters and directives may be obtained
by authorized personnel by writing to the
originating headquarters.

ET Photographic Policy

Military government is considered a sub-
ject for military photographic coverage of
historical and spot news subjects, according
to USFET directive, “Policy on Photogra-
phy in the European Theater (AG 060 SIG-
AGO, 28 September 1946).

Pointing out. this is not to be interpreted
as requiring a daily photographic coverage
of all MG activities, the directive says,
rather, it is “an intelligently planned visual
record of noteworthy transitions and ac-
complishments.

Suggested approaches include infiltration
of key American civilians into top MG posi-
tions, demilitarization, reeducation, repara-
tions, reduction of industrial potential, chang-
es in the general economic pattern, devel-
opment of new governments eventually to
replace the MG and the manner of working
together with the Allies in matters related
to military activities and MG.

The directive continues: War Crimes
Trials under current War Department pol-
icy will be covered from historical and spot
news points of view . . . Civilian activities
such as UNRRA, Red Cross, etc., are not
normally considered subjects for military
photography unless the War Department
specifically requires coverage for certain
definite projects . . . One still photograph
only will be made of the award of decora-
tions, except the Bronze Star, Commenda-
tion Ribbon, Good Conduct Medal . . . Pho-
tographic coverage of parades, visiting dig-
nitaries, entertainments, athletic events, leave
tours and routine activities of trips for local
morale and public relations activities will
be held to a minimum.

The instructions for theater agencies re-
questing photographic coverage from the
theater signal photographic officer are as
follows:

1, Make their request in writing, specific
as to subject, reasonably definite as to num-
ber of photographs or length of motion pic-
ture coverage required, giving date when
coverage is required; state, when known, if
still pictures are required principally for
publication in newspapers or magazines, or
other known media requiring special photo-
graphic treatment; certify that material is
required for official use.

2. Furnish technical assistance to photog-
raphers when subject or activity to be pho-
tographed is of a nature technically un-
familiar to the photographer. Explain the
specific phases of the operation which are
desired to be recorded photographically, but
depend upon the photographer as to how
to make the photograph or motion picture
coverage.

3. Set up assignment, that is, make prelim-
inary arrangements for photographic cov-
erage, when necessary.

The directive also covers technical details
and problems concerning military photo-
graphic coverage activities.

Jurisdiction of German Courts

German Courts are now authorized to ex-
ercise jurisdiction in civil cases against na-
tionals of the United Nations or stateless
persons with the same status as that of Dis-
placed Persons if these persons consent to
such a trial, or the persons have been res-
idents of Germany continuously since 1930
or, if such persons have no intention of leav-
ing occupied Germany within a reasonable
time to settle in another courtry.

These changes in policy are contained in
amendment No. 2 to MG law No. 2, “Ger-
man Courts” issued by OMGUS 2 October
for the purpose of broadening the jurisdic-
tion of German Courts and of redefining the

--- Page 26 ---
limitations on the jurisdiction of such courts.
A number of cases, previously requiring ap-
proval of OMGUS for trial in German
Courts, may now be tried by order of MG
Directors in the Laender.

In addition, no ‘death sentence may be
cartied out without the consent of MG, but
consent will be implied if MG does not ex-
pressly forbid the execution during a period
of 30 days after it receives notice of the
sentence. German Courts are forbidden,
however, to try: cases involving criminal
offenses committed by Nazis against citizens
of the Allied Nations prior to the occupa-
tion of Germany.

Undeliverable Parcels to DP’s

The USFET letter AG 311.1 (General)
GEC-AGO, dated 26 June 1946, on “Postal
Service between Displaced Person in the US
Zone of Germany and the United States,”
is amended by a letter of same file and
subject, dated 21 September, to read:

“Parcels for Displaced Persons bearing
an address of an approved assembly center,
which are undeliverable as addressed and
cannot be forwarded, will_be turned over to
the UNRRA team director at said center for
free distribution to Displaced Persons in said
center.”

Classified Information

All persons requesting classified military
information are to be identified completely
and indisputably and their rightful official
interest in the information determined before
such information is released, USFET has
directed (AG 200.2 GBI-AGO, 19 September
1946).

All military personnel and civilian em-
ployees of the War. Department are warned
that the wearing of a uniform does not by
itself serve to identify a person as having
right to receive classified information. In
addition, no person is entitled solely by vir-
tue of his grade or position to knowledge or
possession of classified matter. Such material
is entrusted only to those individuals whose

23

official duties require such knowledge or
possession.

The delegation of authority to release clas-
sified military information from the respon-
sible officer to his assistants, either military
or civilian, does not relieve that officer of
his responsibility in the matter.

Diphtheria Immunization

Immunization against diphtheria is requir-
ed by USFET directive of all American and
Allied personnel less than 35 years of age
and recommended for all such personnel more
than 35, because of the prevalence of this
disease in the European Theater. Excerpts
from the directive (AG 720 MCH-AGO
24 September) read:

The unusually high incidence of diphther-
ia during the summer months is an indica-
tion that the prevalence of this disease will
be -high during the approaching winter.
Therefore . . . all susceptible US military
personnel, US civilian War Department em-
ployees and Allied and neutral civilian em-
ployees under thirty-five years of age will be
immunized against diphtheria on dates to be
announced by the various commands. Persons
over thirty-five years of age will be urged
to participate. .

In the conduct of these immunizations the
following principles will govern: Suscepti-
bility will be determined by the Schick Test;
technical information regarding the proce-
dure to be employed will be disseminated by.
the Theater Chief Surgeon through technical
channels; materials and equipment will be
requisitioned through medical supply
channels.

Issuance of Orders

Orders issued by units delegated authority
under the provisions of paragraph 10a, Sec-
tion I, Circular 41 will henceforth not be
considered as valid unless they cite Circular
41 and the specific authority from the major
command concerned. (AG 210.482 GAP-
AGQ, USFET, Issuance of Orders, 12 Sep-
tember 1946)

--- Page 27 ---
CommentatorsEndorseByrnes’
Reaffirmation of Foreign Policy

US newspaper and radio commentators
endorsed the reaffirmation of US foreign pol-
icy by Secretary of State Byrnes in Paris
3 October. The editorials observed that the
speech further proved the bi-partisan unity
of American foreign policy and expressed
confidence that the policy had the full sup-
port of the American people.

The New York Times said in part: “Sec-
retary Byrnes has now restated America’s
official and bi-partisan foreign policy in
terms which should exclude any further
misunderstanding . . . Byrnes takes his stand
on the complete Roosevelt policy, which has
also been the policy of President Truman —
the policy of bi-partisan approach to one
world which on one hand seeks the widest
possible operation among all nations in the
maintenance of international peace and se-
curity at a price of great American conces-
sions, and on the other hand sees the best
defense of both peace and security in the de-
fense of justice and freedom, not for a few
privileged big powers but for all men and
all nations . . .

“He again emphasizes for the benefit of
both France and Russia that the United
States is determined to keep Germany dis-
armed, and renews his offer of a 40-year
alliance for that purpose. What he wants
is a peaceful and democratic Germany, ruled
under close Allied supervision, by a federal
government deriving its powers from the in-
dividual German states and presenting no
menace to anybody. But such a Germany,
which would represent a power vacuum in
the heart of Europe, can exist only if every
one of the big powers abstains from encroach-
ing upon her for its own benefit at the
expense of the rest —if, in short, the power
lines in Europe remain in equilibrium . . .

24

points out, the doubts and
other nations regarding Americ&s foreign
policy have brought not peace but war. He
is doing his best to see to it that this does
not happen again.”

Baltimore Sun: “Real gist of Byrnes’
speech was contained in its closing para-
graphs . . . the final paragraphs constituted
a response to Stalin’s recent statement that
there is no immediate danger of war. The
Secretary of State ‘heartily concurred’. . .

“.. . If we can all begin, as both Stalin
and Byrnes do, with the supposition that.
war is not imminent, perhaps we can grad-
ually build confidence in international in-
struments designed to provide universal and
collective security. It is not simply avoidance
of paths to war that is needed, but positive
action working to restore mutual trust and
to strengthen the means of cooperation.”

Washington Post: “. . . Byrnes made it
clear again, as he had already done at Stutt-
gart, that the United States has no intention
of encouraging the setting up of an over-
centralized government in Germany which
would be in a position to dominate the Ger-
man people.”

“Its (speech’s) importance is certainly un-
derlined by the circumstance that it comes so
soon after the Secretary of State and the pol-
icy he represents have been given resounding
vote of confidence by the administration. In
this speech, as in earlier utterances, Byrnes
spoke for America.”

Philadelphia Inquirer: “Byrnes is right
in reiterating the determination of this
country to maintain a firm course against
expansionist maneuvers by powerful coun-
tries.”

Philadelphia Record: “Byrnes showed that
we can make reasonable concessions to Russia
without falling into dangerous appeasement.
He proved that our policy toward Russia is
‘be fair, but firm’ — and not ‘get tough,’ as

--- Page 28 ---
his opponents describe it.”

Washington News: “Secretary Byrnes
made a strong and forthright bid for peace.
. .. but he made it clear that the United
States will not, go to a new Munich to
. appease future aggressors .'...

“. . . He was in fact discussing not merely
one continent, but the world. His speech was
notice to the world that there has been no
retreat from America’s support of collective
security, and that the United States has no
disposition to give way to aggression by any
nations.”

Among radio commentators, Gordon Fraser
said in part: “It is plain today that the pol-
icy of this country is firm, not in the sense
that we intend to push anyone around, but
firm in the sense that this country does not
intend to compromise its beliefs in the rights
of man. And that so long as we concern our-
selves with what goes on in the rest of the
world ... then our cooperation will lend
itself freely to those who seek right for
men.”

US Press Commends Truman's

Statement on Permanent Peace

President Truman’s statement that “we are
going to have a permanent peace,” made in
an informal talk to the Cadet Corps of the
US Military Academy, has been commended
in newspaper editorials as a timely and
salutary remark.

“In emphasizing that the United States is
looking forward to a permanent world
peace,” said the Washington Star, “the Pres-
ident’s words may be regarded as having the
effect of adding his vioce to that of Soviet
Premier Stalin and British Foreign Minister
Bevin in belittling the recent “excess of talk
here and abroad about another war.” The
Star added:

“President Truman made it clear that the
United States . . . will need to educate and
encourage the best possible military leader-
ship and that this leadership, which can en-
rich our civilian economy as well as the
Army and Navy, will continue to be a nation-

25

al asset of such great value that America
will be robbing itself if it fails to foster it
fully. ...

“Constant maintenance of a topnotch offi-
cer corps is not a war measure; on the con-
trary, as the President has suggested, it is
an indispensable part of the strength we
must perpetuate not merely for our own se-
curity but for the permanent world peace
which we are confidently seeking to build
now in concert with the United Nations.”

The New York Times: “President Truman
has . . . reiterated what has always been the
first principle and primary basis of all Amer-
ican policies, namely, that we are looking
forward to permanent peace, that we believe
we are going to have permanent peace, and
that is what we are working for.”

“Such statements are gratefully welcomed
not only because they are a boon to frayed
nerves but also because they help to improve
the international atmosphere and thereby
facilitate the work of diplomacy in solving
grave problems still outstanding.”

The Washington Post: “Instead of letting
his visit to the Military Academy be inter-
preted as a renewal of emphasis and force,
he (the President) forecast a revulsion of
feeling against the military and spoke with
great confidence of attaining permanent
peace. That, of course, involves no shift in
policy.

“But it does give salutary emphasis to the
constructive side of the policy which
Secretary (of State) Byrnes is trying to
carry out.” The Post, stating that the
removal of Henry Wallace from his Cabinet
position “actually reflected only a consolida-
tion of the policy through which the ad-
ministration is determined to maintain
peace,” added: ‘

“That policy is one of standing firmly on
our principles while extending the hand of
good neighborliness to other powers and
bending every effort to the ironing out of
international differences. The greater the
difference the Post concluded, “the more
imperative it is to strengthen the machinery
of collective actions.”

--- Page 29 ---
Editérials in Licensed Press
Express Gratitude for Harvest

Editorials and articles in many licensed
newspapers in the US Zone stressed harvest
thanks, contrasting the bombast of the Nazi
celebrations of the annual harvest with the
simple prayers offered in churches this year.
Several papers expressed gratitude for
American aid in overcoming harvest short-
ages, according to the Information Control
press analysis for the first week in October.

The demand of Bavarian expelles for
winter dwelling and adequate aid precipitated
a series of feature articles and editorials.
Newspapers throughout the Zone increased
their coverage of expellee news, several an-
nouncing regular columns on refugee affairs.
Criticism of inadequate assistance and local
discrimination continued,

The sentences of the International Military
Tribunal at Nuremberg dominated the press
during the week. Editorial reaction was ex-
tremely heavy. There were no direct criti-
cisms of the Tribunal and many editors care-
fully praised the legality of the Tribunal’s
sentences, while at the same time stressing
the vulnerability of Schacht, Papen and
Fritzsche to other charges.

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augs-
burg) made the interesting point that “during
the trial the people turned more and more
against National Socialism.” First they were
sceptical, but slowly they became impressed
with the unworthiness of the leaders they
had followed and how guilty the defendants
were, the paper said.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) com-
mented: “People would not understand why
thousands upon thousands of the victims of
Fritzsche’s propaganda and high-hatted von
Papen’s example should be punished severely
as activists while these men should be free
to take their walks out to the barbed-wire

An exceptional religious note was struck
by the Frankische Landeszeitung (Ansbach)
which refused to pass judgment on those _
whom the court had acquitied. It said, “We
believe that in view of your burden. of. guilt
death must be a relief for you. We have no
pity with you. You deserve no pity ....
But we leave your judgment to the Lord
over Life and Death. His is the vengence.”

* * *

-Generalissmo Stalin’s. recent statements
that he does not believe in any danger of
war were interpreted by the Hochland Bote
(Garmisch-Partenkirchen) as evidence of a
conciliatory spirit on the part of the USSR.

The editorial declared the statements “can
be interpreted as special evidence of Soviet
readiness to cooperate in a friendly spirit
and then represent a valuable contribution
towards overcoming inter-Allied difference.”

“The Soviet Chief of State spoke in behalf
of all progressive people when he said: “All
of mankind faces the task of eliminating the
vestiges of fascism and recreating an en-
during world peace,” the newspaper asserted.

* * *

In an effort to debunk a recent rumor con-
cerning food in the US Zone, the Fraenkischer
Tag (Bamberg) offered a reward of RM 1,000
for any proof that German butter was being
exported to the United States.

* * *

A full page on youth activity appears once
a month in the Schwaebischer Donau-Zeitung
(Ulm). The introduction of the feature made
an appeal to youth: “We did not lose faith
in our youth. You must not lose faith in the
future. Take an active part in building up
a new and better Germany.”

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) carries
a column on youth activities in all three
Laender, with emphasis on US soldiers’ co-
operation in youth programs.

--- Page 30 ---
DENAZIFICATION: GERMAN VERSION (Continued from page 8)

and NSKOV since 1934, and Reichskolonial-
bund 1935—38. He was engaged in the
fortification program in Italy from 1 Sep-
tember 1944 to 30 November 1944. He was
an honorary cultural advisor in the state
guild of painters from’ 1934 to 1937. Also
he was a teacher at the Academy of Painting.
He was made a civil servant by the city
administration of Munich in 1935. He was
active in the Ortsgruppe.

TRIBUNAL’S FINDINGS IN CASE

On the basis of this record, the Prosecutor
classified him as an Offender. The Tribunal,
however, classed him as a Lesser Offender
and sentenced him to three years probation,
during which time he would not operate,
supervise or control an enterprise as owner,
joint proprietor, member of the board of di-
rectors or manager, or to wholly or partially
acquire such enterprise, be employed above
ordinary labor in any dependent position,
be active as teacher, preacher, editor, author
or radio commentator. He had to pay a fine
of RM 5,000 or do 50 days labor, and had
to provide for the costs of the proceedings
in the amount of RM 7,000.

The sentence was extenuated, even though
the respondent actually fell in the group of
Offenders, because, “According to the evi-
dence given by a number of reliable witnesses,
— — proved to be of unselfish assistance to
everybody without making propaganda for
the party. He extended his help to a woman
who had four children and, after having
been denounced to the Gestapo, was arrested
for a considerable period of time by a special
court.” - Under- the elon pe who would
may---be * “élaséed” asa Lesser. Offender : if,
because: of special circumstances, he’ “merits
milder consideration’ and’ may bé-expected,
because of ‘his character, after ‘he has proved
himself in a period of. probation, ‘to fulfill
his duties asa ‘citizen: of a Peco dem-
ocratic state.” , 2

Military Government has liaison ‘and

supervision responsibilities with respect to
the administration of the law and through
its document centers is providing material
for the Prosecutors, and through its Liaison
staff is keeping in constant touch with the
progress and caliber of the implementation
of the law. Where matters of mutual inter-
est have been called to the attention of the
Ministers for Political Liberation, the re-
sponse has, in general, been good, the Special
Branch officials said.

One fact standing out amidst the legal
verbiage of the Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism is that
there has been an obvious attempt to catch
the spirit of American democratic ideology.
The purpose of the law is to “secure a last-
ing base for German democratic national
life in peace with the world.” While the
person who contributed to the development
or support of National Socialism or mili-
tarism “shall be called to account,” he is
given the opportunity to vindicate himself
by being “judged by a just consideration of
his individual responsibility and his actual
conduct, taken as a whole.”

GROUPS DEFINED BY LAW

The law gives detailed definitions of the
groups of persons to which it applies. These
groups are Major Offenders, Offenders (Ac-
tivists, Militarists and Profiteers). Lesser
Offenders (Probationers), Followers, and
Persons Exonerated.The last group is lim-
ited to those who “not only showed a pas-
sive attitude but also actively resisted the
National Socialistic tyranny to the~ extent
of their powers and thereby suffered dis-
udvantages.”

-Punishment, known: ‘as -“sanctions,”. are
meted-out “in accordance with ‘the extent of
responsibility . . . to accomplish the exclu-
sion of National Socialism and Militarism
from the life of our German people, and
reparation of the damage caused.” :

Sanctions. for Major Offenders and Of-
fenders are mandatory. Major Offenders lose

--- Page 31 ---
permanently their property beyond the
amount required for “bare existence,” and
most of their civil rights including right
to hold public office and to vote; must be
assigned to a labor camp for a period of two
to ten years; and may not be active in a
prefossion or independent business for at
least. 10 years.

°

Offenders may be assigned to a labor camp
for a period up to five years; have their
property confiscated in whole or in part;
may not be active in a profession or in-
dependent enterprise for not less than five
years; and be deprived permanently of many
civil rights including those of holding pub-
lic office and voting.

PENALTIES FOR LESSER OFFENDERS

Lesser Offenders are placed on probation
for not less than two years and during that
period may not be active in a profession or
independant enterprise or employed in any
dependent position above ordinary labor,
and are subject to making single or recur-

rent special contributions to a reparation
fund.

Followers “shall be ordered to pay single
or recurrent contributions to funds for rep-
arations” and be subject to certain other
limitations on an individual basis.

REGISTRATION MANDATORY

All persons more than 18 years of age
must complete a registration form, irrespec-
tive of any action that might have been tak-
en by Military Government under Title 9
(Public Safety) of MG regulations or Law
No. 8 (investigation of those in private in-
dustry) prior to the active implementation
of the German law. Statutory prohibitions
do not, however, apply to such “vetted”
personnel who have been approved by MG,
for they may continue in status quo until
“final decision by the Tribunal” or revoca-
tion of MG approval. Military Government
continues to “vet” its own employees, those
of military installations and certain person-
nel in education and information control as
well as those administering the German law.

THE DISARMAMENT PROGRAM (Continued from page 6)

on a list of industries which are to be pro-
hibited entirely in Germany, as well as those
which are to be permitted only under strict
supervision. Substantial progress continues
to be made in the analysis of industrial
plants to determine which are to be fitted
into the civilian economy, and those which
are to be eliminated as being excess to the
industrial capacities established by the Allied
Control Authority. Plants in excess of estab-
lished industrial capacities are being dispos-
ed of as constituting a war potential. Dis-
posal includes removal for reparations pur-
poses, outright destruction, or conversion to
authorized usage.

About 156 plants have been declared as
being available for reparations from the US
Zone of Germany. Of that group 98 are
classified as war plants which in most cases
require some degree of destruction or conver-

28

sion to eliminate specialized machinery: or
structures. Work is under way or completed
on 69 of the war plants which require dis-
mantling and partial destruction. Fifty-three
of them have already been destroyed or re-
duced to such a condition that no further
destruction is necessary. Upon completion of
the removal of equipment and the demolition
of the-plants now scheduled for destruction,
it is estimated that all major explosive plants
are to be removed from the US Zone.
All,plants involved primarily in aircraft
manufacture in the US Zone also are schedul-
ed either for destruction or for conversion
to eliminate their war potential. All of the
342 aircraft plants originally reported have
been surveyed, and the former Messer-
schmidt, Dornier, Junkers, Focke-Wulfe and
and Henschel aircraft plants have been or-
dered dismantled and destroyed or converted.