--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
WALDECK

FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG
ROTEN BURG
BIEDEN-
ZIEGENHAIN
OpF MARBURG

ALSFELD

LAUTERBACH,
OBER *
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN
as QBERTAUNUS|
oe

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU|
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD’

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
» HEIDELBERG MOSBACH
BRUCHSAU
HEILBRONN
: LEONBER

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

cb

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

Equipment for Labor Service Units (Non-US Personnel)

Claims Against and in Favor of the United States Arising in Germany
and Austria

Relationship of Military Government Personnel with Germans in Official
and Semi-Official Positions .

Customs Agreement with France .

Amendment No. 2 Military Government Law No.2 — Limitations on
Jurisdiction of German Courts — Change 16 to Title 23, Military
Government Regulations .

Organizations Authorized to Issue Air Travel Orders

Semi-Annual Inspection of Privately Owned Vehicles

Transportation of Pets

Housing Information

Presentation of Personnel Studies to Military Government Manpower

Board

Revision of MGR Title 21 Concerning Interim Procedures in Information
Control Licensing and Registration .

Trial of War Crimes Cases

Veterinary Certificate for Shipment of Animals and Animal Products
International Transit Rates and Charges Through Germany for Passenger
Tratfic

Application for Housekeeping Quarters and Transportation of Dependents

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .

Population Statistics for US Zone and US Sector Berlin

AG 475 GDS-AGO
13 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 150 GAP-AGO
26 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 385.1 (CA)
30 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 091.311 GAP-AGO
1 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 010 (LD)
2 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 580 AGO
3 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 451 PMG-AGO
8 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 510 RYT-AGO
8 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 600 (MD)
10 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 200.3 (CO)
12 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 000.76 (IC)
12 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 000.5 JAG-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 454 (IA)
14 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 510 (TD)
15 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 230.034 (HC)
16 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.1 (SG)
18 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 091.4 (CA)
18 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

ELECTION DAY: BERLIN — As Berliner’s
cast their votes in the first free municipal
election in 14 years, party enthusiasts such
as the woman on the cover of this week's
-issue continued their electioneering. For other
pictures taken while the balloting was in
progress, see “Berlin Elections” on page 14.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Decartelization: The Coal Industry is taken
from a report compiled by the Decartelization
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS. It deals
with the stripping of the two former coal dis-
tributing cartels of their monopolistic power
and the effort which MG is making to democ-
ratize the distribution of coal in the US Zone.

Reopening Administrative Courts was pre-
pared by Basil D. Sartin, chief of the Admin-
istrative Courts Branch, Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS. Mr. Sartin, a lawyer and
judge in Texas for 30 years, was a major
during the war, serving two years with MG
in Europe and one year in the Pacic Theater.
He formerly was legal oflicer of OMG Bavaria.

2,618,000 Students is an account of the
Progress which MG has made in the fields of
elementary and secondary education. It was
Prepared from reports of the Education and
Religious Affairs Branch, |. A. & C. Division
OMGUS and from a summary of the Report
of the Education Mission from the US which
visited Germany last month.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
Decartelization: The Coal Industry
2,618,000 Students
Reopening Administrative Courts
Restitution Program Reviewed
Berlin Elections

Fuel Conservation Program
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT

PAGE

11
14
17

18
24
26

--- Page 7 ---
Cas two former powerful coal distributing
cartels in Southern Germany have been
stripped of their monopolistic and dictato-

rial powers. Those functions which it is
deemed necessary to centralize until the
over-all coal distribution in Germany is
finally determined, are being placed on a
cooperative basis.

Practically all of the coal coming into the
American Zone has been distributed by two
syndicates: the hard coal organization known
as Kohlenkontor Weyhenmeyer and Co. of
Mannheim, and the brown coal group, the
Rheinische Braunkohlen Syndikat. These,
in reality, are cartels formed several years
ago by the various German interests to
regulate production, control terms of pur-
chase and delivery, restrict wholesalers to
particular marketing regions, and to fix
prices.

For the past eight months, the Decartel-
ization Branch of the Economics Division,

DECARTELIZATION:

OMGUS, has been smashing these monopol-
istic characteristics in an effort to democra-
tize the distribution of coal in the US Zone.
Trustees have been appointed by MG to
curtail the most undesirable activities and to
eliminate the most objectionable features of
the combines.

RETAIN SOME CONTROL

Nevertheless, the syndicates remain in
name and in operational functions, and
through them, as well as through financial
ties, the mining interests have been able to
retain some control of dealers and whole-
salers, and consequently, the final distri-
bution of all coal products.

Complete elimination of these syndicates
has been complicated by the necessary policy
of British Military Government to centralize
the actual mining and distributing organiza-
tions in the Ruhr-Aachen and Cologne
districts, the principal source of coal for the

--- Page 8 ---
US Zone. This policy makes it difficult for
individual firms, wholesalers and dealers to
secure necessary coal supplies from the mines
in the British Zone without some form of
centralized purchasing organization. Because
of this, the German trustees have proposed
to the Decartelization Branch that ceriain
of the functions of the coal syndicates oper-
ating in the Zone be reorganized as cooper-
atives for the purpose of arranging for
authorized shipments according to the fol-
lowing pattern:

1. One vote for each member regardless
of the amount of business or investment in
the cooperative.

2. A distribution of profits of the cooper-
ative, after normal interest has been paid on
capital, on the basis of the amount of
business done with the cooperative by each
member.

3. Members to be allowed to conduct
business outside as well as inside the
cooperative.

RECOMMEND INDEPENDENT UNITS

While such a cooperative form of organ-
ization permits relatively free distribution of
coal within the US Zone subject to the ration
plan, it does not eliminate the influence of
the mines over wholesalers and dealers. For
this reason, the Decartelization Branch has
recommended that the wholesalers and
dealers owned or affiliated with mines or
combines be organized into independent
business units. At the present time, the
German trustees of the syndicates are pre-
paring regulations concerning the sale of
those properties which will be transferred to

THE COAL INDUSTRY

the new owners. These regulations will take
into account the exclusion of purchasers
because of past political and economic
connections, and the conditions of sale.

Coal production in Germany has been
concentrated in the hands of a comparatively
few large concerns. For example, three-
fifths of the output of brown coal was
controlled in 1937 by twelve concerns.
Furthermore, these firms are primarily
engaged in other industries, such as iron,
steel, and chemical production. Too, the
Reich itself was by far the most important
coal producer in Germany, controlling at
least 50 percent of the total national output
at the end of 1943.

FAILED TO ATTRACT CAPITAL

The majority of the 40 mines in the US
Zone, on the other hand, are independently
owned and have no connection with any
production syndicate. Their small unit
production and the poor quality of coal
failed to attract outside capital. A number
of the mines, however, had been developed
under the auspices of the German state and
were the property of the Reich.

The Allied Control Council determines
how much coal is to be placed at the dis-
posal of each zone for a given period and
also establishes the source of the coal.
During the second quarter of 1946 the allo-
cated coal requirements of the American
Zone were 3,168,982 metric tons, of which
90.6 percent were received, with the British
Zone supplying 70 percent. The remainder
of the allocation is still due the US Zone.

On 1 July 1946, largely through the

--- Page 9 ---
efforts of the Decartelization Branch, a
ration system was instituted to control the
distribution of coal made available to the
American Zone. The quantities of coal made
available for one ration period by OMGUS
are allocated by the Coal Sub-Committee in
accordance with priorities established for
each of the three Laender.

For each ration period the Land Economic
Offices (Landwirtschaftsaemter) issue to
industrial enterprises “Certificates of Allot-
ment” (Zuweisungsscheine) on which the
firm’s name is indicated. On the basis of
these certificates, industrial firms and retail-
ers place their orders with wholesalers or
retailers. These in turn place their orders
with the central coal offices (hard coal and
brown coal), furnishing the syndicate with
the certificates which can be checked against
control lists. The allotment of household
coal for each ration. period are allocated to
the Economic Offices on the basis of the
number: of inhabitants. “Certificates for
household coal” (Hausbrandscheine) are
given to Economic Offices which, in turn,
re-issue the certificates to the coal dealers
of the district.

In general, this rationing procedure has
brought about a speedier movement of goods,
avoidance of additional transportation costs,
and prompt payment to the mine companies
for goods delivered.

DEPENDENCE ON BRITISH ZONE

In 1946 more than 70 percent of the coal
consumed in the US Zone will come from
the British Zone. Of this, 80 percent will
consist of hard (stein) coal from the Ruhr-
Aachen districts, and 20 ‘percent will be
brown coal from the Rhine or Cologne
district.

The hard coal in the Britist Zone is taken
over at the mine by the Ruhr-Kohlen Cen-
trale. The German equivalent of this syn-
dicate formerly controlled directly, or
through affiliated companies, the production
quotas, the marketing and the facilities for
processing, storage and transportation. The
present syndicate performs essentially the

same functions except that the production
quotas are now determined by the British
North German Coal Control.

The sales agent in the US Zone for this
concern was the Kohlenkontor Weyhen-
meyer and Co. Control of this organization
has been taken over by MG and is operated
by trustees representing property control.
It also has as one of its functions the distri-
bution of the coal in the American Zone
received from the French Zone.

DISTRIBUTION OF IMPORTED COAL

The brown coal mined in the British Zone
is distributed by the Rhine Brown Coal
Syndicate which has a branch office in
Heidelberg. This syndicate has been taken
over by British MG. The brown coal to
be brought into the US Zone from the Soviet
Zone during the current year will be distri-
buted by the Middle German Coal Sales
Company of Leipzig, a public corporation
with which the Soviets have replaced the
former Middle German Combine. This
company has a branch office in Munich,
supposedly under the sponsorship of the
Soviet Military Administration.

Most of the coal which will be produced
in the US Zone this year will be cleared
through an agency known as the “Kohlen-
verteilungsstelle” (coal distribution agency).
The expenses of this office were formerly
paid by the mines belonging to a large coal
syndicate which was dissolved in August
1945 on the order of Regional MG Head-
quarters, Bavaria. The Kohlenverteilungs-
stelle allocates all orders, upon: the pres-
entation of ration tickets by the consumer, to
the mines, in line with expected deliveries.
The ceiling prices for coal which were in
effect at the close of the war are still
applicable.

The Kohlenkontor of Mannheim is the
selling syndicate which distributes hard coal
throughout the areas now the US Zone. The
corporate structure of the concern is that of
a limited partnership with a capital of
RM 14,300,000. About two-thirds of the
share capital is held directly by the Ruhr
mines, the remainder belonging to subsidi-

(Continued on page 13)

--- Page 10 ---
These girls attending one of Bavaria’s public schools are part of the 2,618,000
students now studying at elementary and secondary schools in the US Zone.

G= public schools in the US Zone
are crowded with 2,618,000 pupils this
fall — the start of the second year of Ger-
many’s “new” education for democratic
living. This total is more than double the
school attendance of a year ago.

An illustration of the growth in school
attendance is the fact that slightly more than
97 percent of all children of the cumpulsory
school age of 6 to 14 years are receiving
daily . educational instruction, whereas on
1 October 1945, the elementary schools, the
only public educational institutions open at
that time, had an enrollment of only two out
of every three children of the same age
group. And in the meantime, the youth pop-
ulation has been increased by expellees and
refugees.

Statistics compiled by the Elementary and
Secondary Education Section, Education and
Religious Affairs Branch, IA & C Division,
OMGUS, show that 2,141,240 children were
attending the elementary schools in the US
Zone at the beginning of this month. A year
before, the enrollment in the elementary
schools totaled approximately 1,200,000
children, while there were 510.866 more of
school age not in school.

Enrollment in secondary schools this
month was 207,878 in vocational and trade
schools 263,295, in special schools for hand-
icapped children 5,607, making a total en-
rollment of 2,618,020 in all public schools
of the Zone as of 1 October 1946.

The second year of Germany’s “new” edu-
cation is stressing its more positive phases.

?

Signa! Corps Photo

--- Page 11 ---
now that many of the fundamental problems
are being solved. MG educational officials
are working closely with German authorities,
guiding them in perfecting democratic edu-
cational techniques and advising them how
to implement democratic organization
throughout their system of education. ;

Curricula are now being established, and
proposals for the democratic organization of
the school system are being carefully studied.
Important provisions for schools are being
included in the constitutional drafts. Within
the schools, greatly increased student plan-
ning and student organizations are being
encouraged.

Such are a few of the aspects of German
education as it stands today in the second
year of occupation. Within the visual and
tangible picture lie the basic principles of
democratic life with which America hopes to
imbue the German mind and heart and to-
ward which Americans work.

REORGANIZATION UP TO GERMANS

In conformity with the MG policy of
giving as much responsibility as possible to
the Germans, MG officers have permitted
educational initiative to develop in the US
Zone. The reorganization of the educational
system is left to the Germans’ discretion, sub-
ject only to approval by MG. Each Land is
free to decide upon its own system. Various
proposals for complete reorganization of the
school systems are under consideration.

Previous to the 1946 fall term, the prin-
cipal positive change in the elementary cur-
riculum was the reintroduction of religious
instruction in nearly all schools. Two to four
hours a week were devoted to Bible stories,
catechism, hymns and participation in divine
services according to local customs and tra-
ditions.

Other changes included physical education
limited to a maximum of two hours a week
and stripped of its pro-military character.
History instruction which had to be suspend-
ed during the first year beeause courses of
study and teaching aids were not available,
has now ‘been resumed. Instruction in all

subjects has been freed of Nazi and mili-
taristic influences. However, the lack of
teachers, textbooks and buildings continues to
prove a serious handicap to the “new” edu-
cation for democratic living. The elementary
curriculum has been reduced to a bare
minimum.

ELEMENTARY CURRICULUM

The lower four grades have continued to
teach the rudiments of reading, writing and
arithmetic and elementary grammar, the last
particularly with the view of giving more
gifted children the necessary preparation for
entering a secondary school. In the case of
the upper four grades there was a tendency
in some parts of the US Zone, especially in
Bavaria, to restore only three of the grades.
Many parents in villages, small farmers in
need of agricultural help, wished to have
their children free from schooling the fourth
year to work in the fields.

Secondary and vocational schools, although
only ten months have gone by since they
were officially reopened by Military Govern-
ment, began the current semester with an
enrollment far in advance of the first of
the year.

In the past, the pratical function of the
German secondary school (gymnasium) was
the preparation of children from the middle
and upper classes for the institutions of
higher learning and thus, in the end, for
all the leading positions in the social hierar-
chy. The changes in the educational and cul-
tural philosophy of these schools, which have
occured during the last centuries, clearly
reflect the changes in the conditions and con-
cepts of the middle class during this period.

The main aim during the first year has
been the denazification of the schools and the
introduction of the democratic viewpoint.
The administrative setup has changed only
in that the central Reich government has
been eliminated. In the curriculum, empha-
sis will be directed toward the development
of courses in civics and social sciences.

A report made by the Education and Relig-
ious Affairs Branch of OMGUS in August
stated: “The general directive for all future

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 12 ---
REOPENING

ADMINIS
COURTS

and independent Administrative
Courts, which provide the “brakes” on
German government officials and agencies
to prevent them from “running away” with
the progress of democratic government, are
functioning again in the US Zone of Ger-
many. These courts restore to the individual,
corporation and government bureau the op-
portunity to protest and seek redress against
decisions of governmental authorities when
it is felt the decisions exceed the legal powers
of governmental authorities.

After 13 years of deterioration and im-
potency under Nazi domination, the Ad-
ministrative Courts were revived on the same
ideals as were recognized during the Weimar
Republic, but actually the newly-established
courts are endowed under American MG
directives with greater power and prestige
than in the years of the republic.

NO AMERICAN COUNTERPART

The Administrative Court is a European
institution, having no counterpart in Amer-
ica. However, certain phases of the judicial
system in the United States have functions
approximating those of the Administrative
Courts. In Germany, the Administrative
Courts are not part of the established
ordinary court system, but are conducted as
separate tribunals.

In understanding the purpose of the Ad-
ministrative Courts, it must be recognized
that every machine must have power to
“stop” as well as power to “start.” Ad-

ministrative Courts are the “brakes” on too
much democracy. Democracy may “run away”
without proper “brakes” upon ambitious ar-
bitrary or unlawful acts of governmental
authorities or agents. The Weimar Con-
stitution stated: There shall be Administra-
tive Courts in the Reich and in the states
for the protection of individuals against
orders and decrees of administrative author-
ities.

COURTS IMPOTENT UNDER NAZIS

The first deliberate efforts in the pre-
meditated plan by Hitler’s agents to destroy
the Weimar Republic was to tamper with
the liberties of the people. Hitler, therefore,
denied the right of appeal to the courts of
law for redress against the police author-
ities. The results included the arrogant
Gestapo and the concentration camps. Ad-
ministrative Courts officials who were
empowered with the duty to prevent
arbitrary and unlawful usurpations were
intimitated, removed or nazified.

Now after 13 years of practical non-
existence, the Administrative Courts have
been reestablished by the Military Governor
for the US Zone. Judges were selected,
sworn in and directed to hear individual
suits and complaints against German govern-
mental edicts and regulations. The courts
were open to the common man to express
his complaint and to challenge the act of the
government itself whenever he felt his rights
and liberties were unjustly curtailed.

The staffing of these courts by able,

--- Page 13 ---
fearless and independent officials was con-
ducted under the supervision of the Ad-
ministrative Courts Branch, Civil Ad-
ministrative Branch, OMGUS. The formal
reopening of the Administrative Courts in
Stuttgart and Munich took place in the
middle of October. In Munich a formal
program was conducted in the Administrative
Courts Building where more than 100 state
officials representing all branches of the
German government took part.

Administrative Courts were in existence
for more than 80 years prior to the adoption
of the: Weimar Constitution and more Ad-
ministrative Courts were established subse-
quently.’ They differed among the states
or Laender, and in organization, procedure
and powers. But with the reopening of the
Administrative Courts in the US Zone, ex-
tensive study by several attorneys and
scholars aided in the formulation of a new
code of procedure and practice. This code
is commonly called the “Heidelberg Admin-
istrative Courts Law” in honor of Dr. Walter
Jellinek and a group of Heidelberg jurists
and scholars who composed the initial draft
for submission to the Laenderrat for enact-
ment,

IMPROVEMENT UNDER NEW 'CODE

While this code is not perfect from the
American viewpoint, it is nevertheless a
great improvement on the conflicting and
confused pattern of Administrative Courts
existing under the old German laws. Under
the new Administrative Courts laws, the
Administrative Courts are now permitted
to function fully. So out of the war there
is developing in the new German states,
order and law which is modern and more
uniform.

In this new pattern, the courts must be
independent of the government, and judges
must hold the same positions of prestige and
respect as magistrates in the ordinary legal
system. MG directives also require the new
Land constitutions to guarantee the right
of the individual to have recourse to the

10

courts against all acts of public authority
considered in violation of the rights of the
plaintiff. Another innovation instituted by
MG in Bavaria requires that two lay
members sit with the three judges of the
court on each. case.

In their book “The Government and Ad-
ministration of Germany,” Dr. Frederick F.
Blachly and Miriam E. Oatman state:

“In the matter of convenience, it is found

" that many affairs decided by the admin-

istrative courts are of such nature that they
can be handled there far more justly, effi-
ciently and rapidly than they could be hand-
led before the ordinary court... .

DIFFERENCES OUTLINED
“A very important difference between the
ordinary courts lies in what may be called
the preventive function of the latter. Where-
as no suit may come before a regular court
except on an allegation that illegal acts
have been committed, complaints before the
Administrative Courts may lie against orders
and ordinances before any overt act has been
accomplished. Test cases may thus be
brought before these courts without the
deliberate breaking of a law in order to
attack its legality; harmful acts on the part
of the authorities may be prevented, and
irreparable damage may be guarded against,
without the use of the injunction at the dis-

cretion of the regular courts... .”

Youth Activities Conference

The first youth activities conference to be
attented by MG representatives of the US,
British and French Zones of occupation was
held in Garmisch-Partenkirchen on 9—11
October. The conference which was held for
the purpose of increasing -the efficiency of |
the youth activities programs in all three
zones, was attended by OMGUS and Land
youth activity officers, a representative of
the Ministry of Education of each of the
three Laender of the US Zone, and several
representatives of the Land youth committee
for Bavaria.

--- Page 14 ---
Restitution Program Reviewed

40,000 Cultural Objects Included in 61 Shipments from US Zone
To Nations Looted by Nazis; Three-fourths of Total to France

Foy thousand cultural objects, exclusive
of archives, have been returned to the na-
tions from which they were looted by the
Germans, since the art restitution program
got under way a year ago. The stolen ob-
jects were returned in 61 shipments, 17 of
which, containing a total of 28,900 individual
items or three-fourths of all the material in-
volved, went to the French Government.

US Forces in Austria received eight ship-
ments, comprising about 1,650 items, which
had been moved into Germany by US Forces.
Belgium received four shipments (400 items).
Czechoslovakia two (400 items), the Nether-
lands 24 (4,700 items), Poland four (1,700
items), and the Soviet Union two (2,300
items). Of the September shipments, one,
comprising 1,143 items, went to France, and
the other, 142 items, to the Netherlands.
Both shipments included paintings, sculpture
and tapestries as well as less important art
objects.

ACTION BY ART INTELLIGENCE

In the field of art intelligence, an “all-
out-drive” has been inaugurated to recover
restitutable paintings, mostly obtained at
forced sales in the Netherlands, which have
passed through the hands of Frankfurt art
dealers. Several such Dutch-owned canvases
have been discovered in the possession of
Frankfurt dealers and taken to the Wies-
baden Collecting Point.

Sixteen valuable paintings by Dutch mas-
ters, J. v. Goyen, Dirk Hals, Jordaens, Rem-
brandt, Ruysdael, Teniers and Terborch,
identified as Dutch property, have been taken
away from the German family which had
acquired them, and removed to the Munich
Collecting Point. Three paintings, includ-
ing a fine Dirk Hals, have been discovered
by the Art Intelligence Officer in Berlin, and
a:Manet has been confiscated in Bavaria.

During September, there were numerous
transfers of German collections to safer or
more accessible storage places or to their
original institutions. Noteworthy among
such operations were the transfer from Clois-
ter Dietranszell, near Wolfratshausen, Bav-
aria, to the Munich, Collecting Point of 100
paintings belonging to the Bayerische Staats-
gemaeldesammlungen, Bavarian State Paint-
ing Collections, for exhibition in the Munich
Haus der Kunst, and return from various
repositories of material owned by one Mu-
nich and six Frankfurt museums.

“BOOKS FROM SCHIRACH’S LIBRARY

Three vans of landscapes and frescoes by
Rotterman, from the Neue Pinakothek in
Munich, 5,000 books from Baldur von Schi-
rach’s library, and eight tons of books be-
longing to the former Academy of German
Law, were all transferred to the Munich
Collecting Point. Two hundred and twenty-
two cases of books owned by the German
Historical Institute in Rome were moved
from Pommersfelden Castle near Bamberg
to the Offenbach Archival Depot.

The former Collecting Point at Marburg
has been turned over to German custodians,
under Military Government supervision, as
a major repository for German-owned books
and archives. The art objects formerly at
Marburg have been transferred to the Wies-
baden Collecting Point, which now contains
over 100,000 items, as compared with about
1,900 in December 1945. Despite the nu-
merous shipments by the Munich Collecting
Point, the number of art objects stored there
is more than double the December figure of
15,900.

Considerable progress has been reported
in sorting and preparing for shipment the
vast amount of library material collected at
the Offenbach Archival Depot. Between its

--- Page 15 ---
activation on 2 March 1946-and 30: Sep-
tember 1946, the depot processed some
2,449,647 items of library material writien
in 35 different languages. Of this figure
about 1,617,400 items were returned to own-
er nations, transferred to the Library of
Congress Mission or loaned to the American
Joint Distribution Committee for use in dis-
placed persons camps. This figure includes
700,000 volumes from the former Prussian
State Library, which were returned to Berlin
on 23 April.

Approximately 832,300 volumes remained
in the depot, of which 265,100 were crated
and ready for restitution, 65,300 were still
to be sorted, and 501,900 were awaiting a
decision on restitution policy. Of the last-
mentioned group (composed of books of uni-
indentifiable ownership or owned by libraries
confiscated by the Nazis in Germany, Aus-
tria and Eastern Europe), over half are
written in Hebrew and at least three-quar-
ters are by Jewish authors.

RESTORATION OF MONUMENTS

Despite the continued shortage of labor
and building materials, the restoration of
war-damaged monuments progressed in Sep-
tember. Reconstruction work on the Grune-
wald Hunting Lodge, Berlin; the Goethe
Library and St. Leonhard Church, Frank-
furt; the St. Moritz Church, Ingolstadt; and
the Koenigstor (King’s Gate), Nuremberg,
has been completed. Restoration work is
being continued on numerous other cultural
monuments throughout the US Zone, no-
table among them being the Cathedral, the
Liebfrauenkirche and the Staedel Art Insti-
tute in Frankfurt; the Residenz of the Prince-
Bishops in Fulda, the Frauenkirche, German
Museum, Amalienburg Residenz ‘and St. Mi-
chael and “St. Johann Nepomuk Churches in
Munich; the Hermitage in Bayreuth, and the
Cloister of the Holy Cross in Regensburg.

Many castles and palaces have recently been
opened to the public, including Nymphenburg,
Munich; the Residenz at Ansbach and the
Residenz and Marienberg Fortress at Wuerz-
burg. Four important museums ‘have’ re-

12

opened — the Fraenkische Kunst Galerie
(Frankish Art Gallery), in Nuremberg; the
Staedel. Art institute (partly), in Frankfurt;
the Heimat Museum in Kaufbeuren; and the
Roman Museum, Saalburg, near Frankfurt.
The most important event in the library
field’) was the reopening of the Germanic
National Museum in Nuremberg.

WIESBADEN EXHIBITION

“Masterpieces of Drawing and Sculpture,”
a new exhibition covering European art from
the Middle Ages to the late Baroque and
Rococo, opened at the Wiesbaden Collecting
Point on 1 September. Other important
shows of German-owned paintings, one of
15th and 16th century Bavarian canvases
and the other of Impressionists and present-
day artists, have been opened in Munich and
Augsburg respectively. The US Zone’s first
major post-war exhibit of contemporary
German paintings is now on display in Wies-
baden. It includes important canvases by
Hoser, Rachlus, Schadau, Schmitt, and other
artists whose works were banned under the
Nazi regime. A similar collection of paint-
ings by artists of proven anti-Nazi sentiment
which was first exhibited in Munich, will be
loaned to the Central Sanitaire Suisse (Swiss
Health Center) for a show in Basle.

Exhibitions of restituted works of art are
now being held in allied countries, particu-
larly in the Netherlands and France, where
they are attracting large crowds.

Bizonal Groups Approved

A proposal for the establishment of two
bodies, politically and democratically rep-
resenting all of Germany and subordinate
to the Allied Control Council, was voted at a
meeting in Bremen early this month of the
Ministers President from the British and US
Zones. ,

One body consisting of the heads of the
governments of all Laender, provinces and
cities would be called the “Laenderrat” and
the other consisting of representatives elected

“by the several Landtage would be called the

“Volksrat.” :

--- Page 16 ---
DECARTELIZATION: THE-COAL INDUSTRY (Continued from’ page 6)

aries of the mines. The Kohlenkontor acts
chiefly as. shipping agent for the mine
combines. Its property consists of current
assets and a briquetting plant. It has no
substantial investments in other firms, nor
is there any evidence of a large cash reserve.

Before the war, the syndicate, together
with mining combines, directed the coal
trade in its appointed area with an iron
hand. There was no possibility of pur-
chasing. coal without its intervention. The
distribution method was simple enough.
Industrial groups consuming more than
2,400 tons of fuels were supplied directly,

while smaller consumers dealt with the.

Kontor through authorized wholesalers only.

During the war although price controls were:

established and the supply-delivery channels
were frozen, the cartel structure was little
disturbed.

Generally speaking, these wartime controls
remained in effect until the end of June of
this year. Now, coal distribution has been
reorganized and the former coal administra-
tion dissolved. Now, MG rather than the
Kontor determines prices, has the ability
to designate customer and quantity, and
nominates the pithead source.

CHANGES EFFECTED

As a result of the proposals of the De-
cartelization Branch of 1 July, the following
changes in the distribution of coal have been
effected.

1. Direct sales to large industrial con-
sumers are prohibited. All sales. will be
made through wholesalers.

2. Direct deliveries will be made only to
wholesalers who consume a minimum of
24,000 tons a year.

3. The security deposit requirement is
reduced, but coal combine guarantees will
not be recognized.

4. Consumers are no longer forced to
purchase through the: cartel organizations.

5.. There are no restrictions of areas of
delivery.

13

6. Restrictive delivery. and. payment. reg-
ulations have been dropped.

7. The trade profit margin has not been
changed. Since the elimination of commis-
sions on direct sales, the Kohlen’s. profits ;
will barely cover its overhead expenses. |

8. Revenues have been «separated -for
accounting purposes.

DISTRIBUTION OF BROWN. .COAL

The distribution and sales of brown coal
briquettes has been in the hands of two
syndicates: the, Rheinische Braunkohlen
Syndikat, formed along the pattern of the
hard coal syndicate with its beginnings
dating back to 1892; and the Mitteldeutsches
Braunkohlen Syndicat of Leipzig. The Rhine
Syndicate distributed coal only for mines
agreeing to have their entire production sold
through the concern. It did not own shares
in trade or navigation firms. The top
organization was located in Cologne with a

branch office in Mannheim.

By order of the North German Coal
Control, effective 31 January 1946, this
syndicate suspended its activities and a new
organization was set up in its place with
headquarters in Cologne and a branch
office in Heidelberg. By decision of the
Economic Council of the Laenderrat, a trustee
was appointed on 29 August over the Heidel-
berg branch. His task is to free the syndicate’s
purchase and delivery terms of all anticom-
petitive and pricefixing cartel-inspired con-
ditions. As in the decartelization of the hard
coal syndicate, the trustee will do away with
restricting wholesalers to particular market-
ing regions, with direct shipments to con-
sumers. It is his job to enable all whole-
salers of sound credit to share in the sale and
distribution of Rhine brown coal.

The brown coal syndicate in Leipzig was
replaced by the Mitteldeutsche Verkaufs-
kontor. under Soviet administration. This
syndicate has a branch office in Munich
which confines itself to being a settlement
office. without. trade activity of its own.

--- Page 17 ---
Sunday 20 October 1946 marked the first
free municipal election in 14 years for Ber-
lin’s citizens. 2,091,000 of the city’s 2,349,722
eligible voiers elected 130 members to the City
Assembly and chose 20 Borough Assemblies.
The preliminary results announced by the
election office of the Berlin Magistrat showed
the Social Democratic Party (SPD) had e-
merged as the strongest political group. The
SPD with 999,170 votes polled 48.7 of the total
valid vote and obtained pluralities in all four
sectors of the city. The Christian Democratic
Union (CDU) finished in second place with
454,202 votes (22.1 percent) followed by
the Socialist Unity Party (SED) with

405,992 votes (19.8 percent) and the Liberal
Democratic Party (LDP) with 192,527 (9.4
percent). The final official tabulation will be
announced by the Allied Kommandatura which
directed the drafting of the constitution
under which the Berlin elections were held:

(Left) A voter confined to his home
by illness casts the ballot brought to
his bedside by an election official;
(right above) German police watch
for possible election day disorders
outside a polling place in. Steglitz;
(below right) election officials break-
ing the seals on a ballot box and
the same officials counting ballots

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
2,618,000 STUDENTS (Continued from page 8)

school organization is democratic equality
of opportunity. The development of demo-
cratic attitudes and habits among the high
school students must be given prominence.
Confused talk about the humanist aim, which
too often still conceals, as it has in the past,
reactionary objectives, should cease. Con-
crete objectives, in terms valid for needs. of
today, should be formulated. /
“Finally, the secondary school must be-
come integrated as the academic branch of
the school for adolescents in the democratic
ladder system. Such a plan would best be
worked out in agreement with the other zones
because completely different school systems
in the four zones will in the long run estab-
lish intellectual iron curtains between
them .... However, if such agreement is
not possible, the three American Laender and
the local communities in which the schools
operate, should produce a common plan.
Finding out the need for the kind and num-
ber of trained professionals required in the
foreseeable future should be the first step.”

EDUCATION MISSION’S REPORT

The US Education Mission, following its
recent survey of the education facilities in
Germany, recommended that “To an extent
not true heretofore, elementary, secondary
and vocational schools should be united to
form a comprehensive school system for all
children and youth below ‘the university
level.”

The mission’s report also said, “The terms
‘elementary’ and ‘secondary’ in education
should not primarily be conceived .of as mean-
ing two different types or qualities of in-
struction, but two consecutive levels of it,
the elementary one comprising the grades
1 to 6, the secondary one those from 7 to 12.
In this sense the vocational schools should
be considered a part of the secondary school
system.” It continued:

“To begin with, all children should stay
together for. six years in the : elementary:
“school without being divided’ according: to
sex, social class, race,. vocational .or profes-

sional intentions. ... This would not pre-
clude the specific grouping for certain sub-
jects, for example, separate classes for boys
and girls in physical education, home econom-
ics, manual work, etc., or the grouping
according to the denomination for the. pur-
pose of religious instruction. If it is deemed
necessary to start instruction in a foreign
language as early as in the fifth grade, this
may be done in voluntary courses for all
those boys and girls willing and able to take
them.”

IMPORTANCE OF SCHOOL PROGRAM

’ Pointing out that “it is imperative that
the whole school program make a significant
contribution to democratic experience” and
that “a change in the whole concept of the
social sciences. . . will contribute perhaps
the major share to the development of demo-
cratic citizenship,” the mission recommended:

“That in both the elementary and second-
ary schools there be a common curriculum
in which the social sciences have a much
larger part; that instruction in German lan-
guage and literature, science and mathemat-
ics, the arts, health and physical education,
homemaking and manual arts be continued
but along these new lines; and that at the
secondary level there be opportunities for
increasing specialization in the upper grades
in such fields as languages — classical and
modern, — mathematics, commerce, agricul-
ture, home economics, etc. .. .

TRAINING FOR CITIZENSHIP

“While retaining the present objective of
providing well trained workers in every field,
the new objective of training for effective
citizenship must receive equal attention. To
aid in this the number of class hours for
vocational students should be greatly in-
creased so as to provide the additional time
needed for social studies and cultural sub-
jects. The discussion technique should. be
developed and student government given

opportunity for expression,”

--- Page 20 ---
CONSERVATION PROGRAM OUTLINED
TO MEET CRITICAL FUEL SHORTAGE

A urgent plea to American and Allied
personnel as well as to the German
industrial population to conserve electric
power and coal supplies upon which: power
depends was coupled with a list of nine ways
in which military personnel, American civil-
ians, their dependents and authorities over
occupational ‘installations can further this
conservation program. ’

“The approach of winter is greatly ag-
gravating the critical fuel shortage which
has prevailed since the end of the war,”
Brig. Gen. William H. Draper, Jr., Director
of the Economics Division, OMGUS, said.
“Even with these drastic reductions, the
supply of coal available for essential in-
dustries will be far below minimum require-
ments. The whole economy will be operating
on a hand-to-mouth basis during the winter,
and to avert complete shutdowns, every
establishment and every business must con-
serve the use of fuel and limit the use of
power for lighting to absolute necessities.”

Military Government is promoting a theater-
wide conservation program. US authorities
have reduced their November share of coal
for military use by 30,000 tons. The coal
available to railroads has been cut by 20,000
tons, electric plants by 10,000 and gas plants
by 10,000 tons. Additional economies are to
be put into effect soon.

But there are four specific steps which

can be taken by the average householder in ~

the American communities in Berlin and the
US Zone to conserve coal. They are:

1. Buildings should be heated only when
actually necessary.

2. Room temperature should not be con-
trolled by opening windows and doors.
They should be controlled by changes in the
rates of firing and adding fuel, coupled with

“47

draft control.

3. Hallways, unused rooms, attics, garages
and similar space should not be heated. In
most instances this involves only turning off
of radiators and closing doors.

4, The Engineering Service should be
asked to check the heating system as needed.
This includes condition of equipment, proper
firing by your furnace attendant and heat
losses through leakage.

Five specific steps can be taken in military
units and installations to bolster the
campaign. They are:

1. All military personnel concerned with
and responsible for the operation of bar-
racks, messes, bakeries, recreation halls and
all types of military and naval installations
including Red Cross and affiliated Services
should be governed by the steps enumerated
for the average householder.

2. Individuals responsible for the procure-
ment of fuel should assure order and
delivery of the proper size, type and quality
of fuel to meet the mechanical requirements
of each particular installation. Brown coal
briquettes should be substituted for hard
coal and coke wherever equipment and con-
ditions permit.

3. All fuel should be properly stored,
both use and distribution carefully and
economically controlled.

4, All fuel burning equipment, including
heaters, boilers and cook stoves, should be
maintained in proper condition for maximum
fuel efficiency at all times. Flues should
be maintained in proper condition.

5. All firemen should be properly in-
structed in their duties and responsibilities,
and their efficiency checked by: competent
inspection service.

--- Page 21 ---
Internal Reparations Program

Action inaugurating an internal repara-
tions program in the US Zone of Germany
was recently taken by Military Government
when a law on the establishment of a special
fund for the measures of restitution for each
of the three Laender in the US Zone was
approved. These laws, proposed by the
Laenderrat, provide interim awards for the
economic rehabilitation of those left destitute
by Nazi persecution.

The Deputy Military Governor, in approv-
ing these laws, pointed out to the Laenderrat
that the laws are of a temporary nature and
provide only limited coverage. He further
stated that while awards under the laws are
to be deducted from any final damage set-
tlement, they are based more on present need
than on the degree of injury suffered under
the Nazi regime.

The regulations to be issued in each Land
shall define the terms “needy persons,” dam-
age under the Nazi dictatorship” and “emer-
gency” as used in the laws. Also, pay-
ments and allowances made under each law
will be free from taxation, while appropri-
ate steps shall be taken in each Land to see
that the fund established is adequate.

Food Imports from the US

A total of 940,000 metric tons of bread-
grains, flour, dried milk, fish and other foods
were imported between VE-Day and 30 Sep-
tember, 1946 for US occupied territory in
Germany, according to an announcement by
the Food and Agriculture Branch, OMGUS.

These imports were in addition to ship-
ments into Germany of 18,000 tons of seeds,
55,000 tons of fertilizers and phosphate rock
and 17,000 tons of other agricultural sup-
plies.

During the twelve months ending 30 Sep-
tember, imported food supplied approxi-
mately one-third of the total calorie intake

rs in the

of rationed foods of non-self sup
US Zone and US Sector of

German Refugees Aided

The Allied Coordinating Committee has
approved a plan whereby Germans, now ref-
ugees, who were formerly bonafide residents
of what is now one of the four occupied zones
of Germany, and who fled from their homes
because of the war, shall be permitted to
return to their former residence at times and
at rates established by the Commander of the
zone to which such persons wish to return,
regardless of where these German refugees
may now be living.

The application of this plan will neither
interfere with existent agreements concern-
ing the resettlement of expelled Germans
from Austria, Hungary, Czechoslovakia and
Poland, nor with the exchange of refugees
and discharged ex-Wehrmacht members be-
tween the four occupied zones.

Youth Group Banned

The Schwaebische Volksjugend (SVJ),
one of the largest youth organizations in
Wuerttemberg-Baden, with 3,000 members,
has been ordered dissolved because of re-
peated disregard of MG directives which
forbid political activities on the part of such
organizations.

Investigation disclosed that German polit-
ical speakers from another Zone had ad-
dressed ihe SVJ on politics and political
affairs. Letters were found sewn into the
clothing of some SVJ members going out of
the US Zone, indicating liaison with outside
political agencies. , Investigation also dis-
closed that some of the members of the SVJ
had sought to recruit former Hitler youth
leaders. .

The Education and Religious Affairs Di-
vision in Stutigart warned that any youth
group which violates MG regulations against

--- Page 22 ---
engaging in any type of political activity
will be dissolved and that enforcement of
this measure would be prompt and impartial.

POL Program Approved

OMGUS approved a program for
reciprocal acceptance of petroleum, oils and
lubricants ration tickets in the US, British
and French occupation zones of Germany
and asked the Laenderrat at Stuttgart to
look into the possibility of extending the
agreement to the Soviet zone in order “to
further facilitate and promote interzonal
trade throughout Germany.”

Under the existing program in the US,
British and Frerich zones, local POL alloca-
tion offices, after checking the necessity of
a trip to another zone, issue ration tickets
for the round trip and charge them against
their quotas. Consumers using the coupons
are allowed to exchange them at ration of-
fices at border stations and elsewhere within
the zone entered for tickets valid in that
zone.

Personnel Changes

Brig. Gen. Charles K. Gailey, Jr., has
been appointed as Chief of Staff, OMGUS.
General Gailey has been Director of Public
Relations Office and acting Chief of Staff.

Col. Bryan L. Milburn, former Chief. of
Staff, has been named Director of Adminis-
trative Services and Headquarters Com-
mandant, OMGUS.

Col. William P. Pence is Deputy Director
of the Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS. Since January, he had
been Chief of the division’s Communications
Branch.

Earl N. Reinsel has been appointed Chief

of the Property Control Branch, Finance Di- .

vision, OMGUS. A former American business-
man in Germany, he had been deputy chief of
the branch for the past seven months.
Whitney R. Harris, formerly assistant pro-
secutor to the US Chief of Counsel in pros-
ecution of major Axis war criminals, has

19

been appointed Deputy Chief of the Legal
Advice Branch, Legal Division, OMGUS.

Dr. Walter L. Dorn has resumed his du-
ties as Special Adviser of the Office of Per-
sonal Adviser to the Deputy Military Gov-
ernor on Denazification. During his recent
leave, the position was filled by Jacob D.
Beam.

Warren M. Chase, Office of Political Af-
fairs, has replaced John J. Muccio as chair-
man of the OMGUS Suggest and Awards
Committee.

Recent USFET assignments include Col.
Ray B. Conner as Theater Fiscal Director and
Major John H. Robinson as Theater Recruit-
ing Officer.

British Zone Briefs

Five hundred expelled Sudeten Germans
are being provided work at a former arma-
ment factory in Neumuenster. The factory,
which once manufactured mines, torpedoes
and submarines, is now producing glass, but-
tons, buckles, trinkets, shoes, belts and or-
naments, 70 percent of which will be for
export.

During the month of September, 965 per-
sons were removed from office in the British
Zone because of their past association with
the Nazi Party. In addition, 46,758 applica-
tions for employment were received of which
6,087 were refused. ;

As a result of arrangements made between
British and Soviet representatives on 20
September, the Soviet Military Authorities
have undertaken to supply the British Zone
with the following supplies during each
month from September to December: 10,000

tons of rye and wheat, 1,250 tons of sugar,

2,500 tons of oats, 500 tons of chemical wood
pulp for paper making, 20 tons of cord for
tires, 30,000 tons of potatoes, 35,000 tons of
iron ore, and 200,000 cubic meters of
pitwood. For the same period, the British
Zone will supply the Soviet Zone with 25,000
tons of iron and steel, 4,000 sets of tires and
tubes, and 5,000 horses plus a quantity of
young pigs.

--- Page 23 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The Allied Coordinating Committee has
agreed to an increase of not more than 20
percent in coal miners’ wages in order that
the wage level in the coal mining industry
should not be less than in the metal, chemical
and building industries.

‘Waste motor oil drained from US Army
vehicles is to be turned over for use by the
German economy on quantitative receipts.

As an incentive to accelerate production
of lumber, 40 percent of allocations for the
cutting year beginning 1 October are to be
received at once by US Zone sawmills. An
additional 20 percent of allocation of logs
will be released upon surrender of all of
the last year’s rationing stamps received for
last year’s production. The balance of the
new year’s rationing stamps have been sur-
rendered.

Four-fifths of all porcelain manufacturers
in Bavaria are working on MG orders.

LOOTED PRESS RETURNED

One of the largest offset printing presses
in Europe was returned to France last week,
as well as records concerning the German
occupation of France and Belgium. Resti-
tution of laboratory platinum and silver was
made to Czechoslovakia. Looted stocks of
dry goods and clothing were restored to the
Netherlands.

Eleven cars of toys for export to the Unit-
ed States for the Christmas trade moved
from Nuremberg 16 October to Bremen for
transshipment.

In order to obtain a more direct control
and a more complete description of blocked
accounts in the US Zone, all financial insti-
tutions are to file with the Reichsbank index
and information cards on blocked accounts.

Quadripartite approval has been granted
for an extension of interzonal postal service
to include special delivery service.

Eight civilian circuits have been added
to the interzonal telephone network between

the French and US Zones. In addition, six
engineering telephone circuits were added
to the US-British interzonal network.

The forty-first newspaper to be granted
a US Military Government license is “Der
Abend” (The Evening), the second US-li-
censed newspaper in Berlin. It appeared
on 10 October with an initial circulation of
100,000 and will be issued six times weekly.

The complete Nuremberg judgment is
being printed by Nymphenburg Verlag in
the Neue Zeitung plant Munich. The verdict
covers 280 pages and contains a full text
of Soviet dissenting opinion.

ELECTION BROADCASTS

A new series of broadcasts was instituted
in Berlin, titled “The Voters Ask.” Four
leading party candidates were interviewed
on topical questions. Broadcasts on election
subjects, when scheduled 24 hours in ad-
vance, were printed in the radio columns
of the US-licensed Der Tagesspiegel and the
British-licensed Telegraf.

The Quadripartite Information Committee
of the Political Directorate, which has agreed
upon production of a documentary film on
the Nuremberg War Crimes Trials, has dir- ©
ected that the production be completed and
ready for distribution by 1 January.

A school radio program is to be inaugurat-
ed by the new broadcasting station in the
US Sector of Berlin. Broadcasts are to be
cultural and educational, and non-political;
they will be transmitted twice daily two
days a week.

THEOLOGICAL SCHOOL REOPENED
“Kirchliche Hochschule Berlin,” sponsor-
ed by the Evangelical Church, opened its

. first seminary since it was closed by the Na-

zis in 1934. This school, the sole ecclesiastic-
al training institute in eastern Germany, has
an initial enrollment of 150 theological stu-
dents, mostly from the Soviet Zone. The
school is in the US Sector of Berlin.

Wuerttemberg-Baden OMG. has arranged

--- Page 24 ---
for radio Stuttgart. to place four different
programs per week at the disposal of youth
organizations.

“As an advance against coal which will
become available through voluntary Sunday
work of miners in the British and US Zones,
the immediate distribution of three hundred-
weights (US pounds) of brown. coal briquet-
tes per household of four persons in cities
with populations of 20,000 and over is auth-
orized from any stock now on hand and
which can be made available for this pur-
pose.

FOOD IMPORTS FROM US

Four ships ¢arrying approximately 10,500
long tons of flour and 1,100 long tons of

other foods from the United States for Ger-

man civilian consumption were unloaded at
Bremen. during the week ending 12 October.
Two ships with approximately 15,900 long
tons of breadgrains and flour were schedul-
ed for early arrival.

Commercial production of nine varieties
of early vegetables in the US Zone this year
is estimated to be about 40 percent larger

than the production of the same varieties in
1945.

Approximately 350,000 gift relief + parcels
from the United States destined for US and
British Zones arrived at Bremen on 12 Oc-
tober. About 210,000 of these parcels are
destined for the US Zone and the remainder
for the British Zone.

FOOD PACKAGES RELEASED

Individual food packages from Switzer-
land, which have been held in warehouses
in the US Zone because of unauthorized
entry, have been ordered released for distri-
bution by German welfare agencies in order
to prevent spoilage.

A silver monstrance with jewels and bowl,
property of the Cloister of Brothers of
Charity in Neustadt/Mettau, Czechoslovakia,
was recovered in Nuremberg.

Production of paper in Greater Hesse and
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden ‘will be lower than
usual because shortage of raw. materials in-

21

duced (several mill’ managers, particularly
in the grape and potato regions, to shut their
plants so that their employees could help
in the harvesting.

TIRE PRODUCTION THREATENED

The shortages of natural rubber and high
tenacity rayon are threatening to curtail pro-
duction of urgently needed truck tires. Ef-
forts are being made to substitute cotton for
rayon in the‘manufacture of certain types of
tires, and through imports from England to
obtain natural rubber for blending with
buna.

Arrangements have been made to haul to
refineries between 60 and 70 percent of the
sugar beet crop estimated at 840,000 tons,
an average distance by rail of 50 miles. The
balarice of the sugar beets will be moved by
road vehicles.

The movement of lumber, which is. es-
sential to the export trade, is being given
Priority rating. A daily average of approx-
imately 56 flat cars is required to haul the
lumber from approximately 5,000. mills in
the US Zone.

BRITISH RECEIVE PLANING MILL -

A complete planing mill weighing 249 tons
has been sent from the Fritz Mueller plant
at Oberesslingen to Hamburg for transship-
ment to Great Britain. The planing mill rep-
resented the first equipment ‘shipped to
Great Britain from the US Zone. :

50,000 volumes have been donated by the
Swiss Red Cross to lending and school libra-
ries throughout the US ‘Zone. A large number
of volumes, mainly educational and text-
books, has been especially designated for
Heidelberg University and will be presented
to the university.

Favorable results of the supplemental
child feeding program are reported. In Stutt-
gart where 1,500 children were fed a sup-
plemental ‘ration of 400 calories six days per
week for four weeks, the average gain per
child was..2.9 pounds -for boys and 2.3
pounds for. girls. : ’

--- Page 25 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our read-
ers. Official copies of the quoted circulars,
letters and directives may be obtained by
writing to the originating headquarters.

Terms Defined

In order to clarify questions arising from
the hiring of non-American personnel, def-
initions of the terms “indigenous civilians”
and “foreign nationals, including Allied
nationals” have been issued by OMGUS.

“Indigenous civilians” are defined as
enemy, ex-enemy, stateless, United Nations
Displaced Persons and other categories of
personnel who, when employed by MG, are
paid in other than US Military Payment Cer-
tificates or US dollar instrumentalities.

“Foreign nationals, including Allied na-
tionals” are defined as citizens of Allied
and neutral nations, excluding United Na-
tions Displaced Persons and assimilees, who
when employed by Military Government are
employed under agreement with their re-
pective governments and are reimbursed
with Military Payment Certificates or US
Dollar instrumentalities.

A policy of not hiring foreign nationals
has been in effect in Berlin for some time,
and the clarification contained in Personnel
Bulletin, H-21, OMGUS, 27 September 1946,
makes it possible to extend this policy to a
Zone-wide basis.

Information Control Licensing

Procedures to be employed by the Infor-
mation Control Division in the licensing and
registration of all German entertainers are
outlined in a recent OMGUS directive “Revi-
sion of Military Government Regulations
Title Twenty-one concerning Interim Proce-
dures in Information Control Licensing and
Registration,” AG 000.76 IC, dated 12 Oc-
tober. This directive effects primarily per-
sons engaged in the following occupations:
conductors, directors, stage managers, dram-

atizers, stage designers, actors, singers dan-
cers, instrumentalists, variety artists and
other performers.

The directive states: “A registration will
be granted only after Land Military Govern-
ment has determined that the applicant is
eligible under the terms of the Law for Lib-
eration from National Socialism and Mili-
tarism and possesses the necessary qualifica-
tions for conducting the activity authorized.
lf the registrant is subsequently found. by
a competent German tribunal to be ineligible
under the terms of the Law, his registration
granted at Land level will be rescinded by
the issuing authority. A registration may in
addition be rescinded at any time by the
issuing authority if it is determined that the
holder lacks necessary qualifications.”

War Crimes Trials

USFET Headquarters has assumed the
authority for the appointment of MG Courts
and for all further actions in connection
with the trial of war crimes cases involving
American nationals as victims and mass
atrocities committed in the US Zone of Oc-
cupation. USFET directive (AG’000.5 JAG-
AGO, Trial of War Crimes Cases, 14 Octo-
ber 1946) revokes the former authority ves-
ted in the Commanding General. Third US
Army Area, for the trial and other actions
in these cases. The directive also lists thé

procedure and scope to be observed in these
cases.

Care and Feeding of DP’s

New policies regarding the care and feed-
ing of United Nations Displaced Persons are
set forth in a recent USFET directive, AG
383,7 GEC-AGO, 11 October 1946, entitled
“Care and Feeding, in Approved Assembly
Centers, of United Nations Displaced Per-
sons, Persecutees and those Assimilated to
them in’ Status.”

The new directive specifies certain ration
items which MG is required to furnish from

--- Page 26 ---
indigenous sources; the source of rations for
Displaced Persons in German civilian hos-
pitals, and the ration. scales with supple-
ments and clothing. which shall be allotted
to certain categories- of DPs. In addition,
terms such as ‘Assembly Center,” children,
normal consumers, pregnant. and lacting
women, workers, special care cases and per-
secuted persons are defined. .

‘Where doubt exists as to any portion of
this directive OMG or German personnel are
advised to consult the appropriate tactical
unit’s Quartermaster,.G-4 or S-4.

Highway Marking Program

The program of numbering and marking
of highways in the US Zone, Germany, is
being completed under the direction of the
Road Branch, Transport Division, OMGUS.
German highway maintenance authorities are
responsible for the accomplishment of this
two-fold program. The roads to be number-
ed fall roughly into the categories of na-
tional highway, and state and county roads.

Traffic safety signs indicating speed reg-
ulations, railroad crossings, curves and
stop signals to be installed and restored on
the highways will conform to international
traffic regulations, as well as to German traf-
fic laws. The road markings are printed in
German but, where necessary in the inter-
ests of the Occupation Forces, the signs will
bear the markings in English as well.

Payments to Ex-PWs

Procedures are being worked out for the
payment of the Military Payment Orders
and Certificates of Credit issued to ex-pris-
oners of war of the US Armed Forces. A
further announcement will be made by OMG-
US when the necessary procedures by which
payments will be consummated in the US
Zone have been completed. Procedures for
payment in the other zones of occupation
will be announced later.

‘As the settlement will be made in Reichs-
marks, it will not be possible for individuals
holding Military Payment Orders or Certif-

23

icates of Credit to purchase CARE packages,
or use them for similar purposes.

Food Regulation

Germans engaged in interzonal travel will
soon be provided with a uniform scale of
food rations according to a recent amend-
ment to Title 12, MG Regulations. This
amendment, AG 010.6 (ED) dated 10 Octo-
ber 1946, provides for the designation of
specific food offices where persons traveling
from one zone to another may exchange trav-
el coupons.

The directive states: It is essential that
appropriate German authorities of each Land
be instructed to designate the food offices
where the travel coupons are to be exchang-
ed and to carry out in coordination with
the Laenderrat all other provisions at the
earliest possible time. It is suggested that
travel coupons be printed for the 96th, 97th
and 98th ration periods in the denomina-
tions specified in MGR 12-311. It is desired
that this headquarters be informed not later
than 20 October 1946 of the coordinated ar-
rangements which are made to carry out
this program.

Claims Involving US

USFET directive, AG 150 GAP-AGO
“Claims Against and in Favor of the United
States Arising in Germany and Austria”
dated 18 April 1946 has been amended by
a letter of 26 September 1946 as follows:

No claim arising in Germany out of the
operation of a privately owned motor ve-
hicle within the scope of MG Ordinance
No. 6 issued by OMGUS, or within the scope
of any amendments thereto, will be proces-
sed or paid under the provisions of. this
letter directive. : ;

Claims of inhabitants or nationals of the
United States and-allied and neutral coun-
tries may be. filed with -unit. claims offices
or with the US Army Claims Service. Noth-
ing contained in this directive shall be
construed as prohibiting the processing of
such claims under the provisions of Army
Regulations.

ne

--- Page 27 ---
Licensed Press Views Criticism

Of Refugee and Food Situations

The critical statements by the Military
Governor and his deputy concerning refugee
and food situations which have developed
among the German residents of the US Zone
received editorial attention in the licensed
press of the Zone, according to the weekly
Information Control analysis of newspaper
opinion. ¥

In commenting on the Military Governor’s
condemnation of the “inhumane hard-hearted-
ness” showed by some Germans toward the
Eastern refugees, the Hessische Nachrichten
(Kassel) said:

“Aren’t we ashamed that an American gen-
eral has to come to the help of our German
brothers and sisters from the East? Should
we not first deal with those stony-hearted
people who expose ihe whole German nation
to the reproach that we are greedy, inhumane
and mean? At the very moment, when we
are appealing to the sympathy of the world
for us, for our children and for the destitute,
this contemptible demonstration is given by
the evidently incorrigible adherents of a re-
gime that is responsible for the misery of the
refugees.” f

The Deputy Military Governor’s admoni-
tion to the German press to criticize public
officials more sharply in connection with the
non-delivery of food from the farms was
widely quoted. The Wiesbadener Kurier
commented:

“One has evidently become accustomed to
the idea that American imports of foodstuff
are inexhaustible and that it is therefore not
necessary to be too severe with the German
producers. Incompetents may incline to such
an idea because it permits them to regard
their mistakes as bad luck and the American
contributions simply as humanitarian duty.
This can only lead to bitter disappointment. .
The large American stores that were sup-

24

are simply a mirage. Both General Mc.

arney
and General Clay have pointed out that the
available supplies will suffice for barely an-
other six weeks. A new program of imports
has not yet been approved by the US Gov-

ernment . . . The peasants have no confi-
dence in the (German) government. That
makes them blind to the commonwealth and
to their own good.”

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
said in its editorial: “We have repeatedly
presented criticism in a sharp and objective
way, but had to discover that the public
authorities continued to act as if nothing had
happened . . . There are authorities that
have refused to answer press inquiries.. We
demand that mayors and landrats_ should
admit our reporters to the city council and
Kreis council meetings, and that mayors and
landrats render account to public meetings
about food, housing and refugees.”

ICD Survey Reveals German
Demand for Non-Party Press

The German people want a free press as
shown by a preponderant number of news-
paper readers — 77 percent — expressing
preference for a non-party press, only eight
percent favored a party press system. These
figures were based on the first series of sur-
veys by Information Control on each of 33
US-licensed newspapers. At the time the
survey was made, there were 40 licensed
papers.

Generally affirmative inpressions of the
present press system were noted in the per-
centages of favorable answers to questions on
the qualitative nature of the licensed news-
papers. For all 33 papers, an average of 48
percent rated them either “very good” or
“good.” Thirty-seven percent of those ques-

--- Page 28 ---
tioned said their local papers-were “fair” and
five percent classified their papers as “bad”
or “poor.” Ten percent-had-no opinion.

A relatively small number of persons —
16 percent — believed that their community
newspapérs were dominated by political par-
ties or showed favoritism toward them. This
indicated that efforts of the newspapers to
present political news impartially generally
are successful.

Questioning of more than 8,000 German
citizens throughout the US Zone, of whom
more than 90 percent were called “readers,”
also disclosed that while about one in five
readers said “censorship” or American con-
trol was the chief difficulty faced by the Ger-
man press, the majority held that shortage in
newsprint, equipment and personnel were the
main obstacles limiting the newspapers.

Protest Demonstrations Upheld
By Editorials in Berlin Papers

In two long editorials the US-licensed
Tagesspiegel and the British-licensed Tele-
graf, both in Berlin upheld the protest dem-
onstrations to the Nuremberg acquittals as
proof that the German people honestly want
to clean their own house.

“One must speak of progress,” declared
Tagesspiegel, “when the end (of the trial)
caused such a reaction.”

Citing “foreign observers” who contended
the demonstrations showed the German people
will never able to get used to justice, the
paper denied this.

“As far as we are informed, nothing else
was said but that the Nuremberg acquittals
cannot mean the acquittal of these defendants
from all guilt,” contended the paper. “No
one doubted the legal basis of the court, crit-
ized its statutes, nor declared that its reason-
ing was entirely unjustified.

“The only thing we Germans contended
was that other points of; the indictment,
which the Nuremberg court could not and did
not treat, have by no means been dropped,”
continued the paper. “These things have not

25

ended with the Nuremberg verdict but have.
started for the German people.”

Stating that it~is difficult to wait until a
court will be established to try not only the
three acquitted but “all those who have caus-
ed and aggravated our misery, the paper
cautioned that “just because we think this is
the only way we can demonstrate our deter-
mination to do justice . .. we must insist on
the strictest propriety, justice, and order
when beginning the trial.”

On the same subject the Telegraf pointed
out that the three acquitted are regarded as
guilty by the German people, though this
does mean a criticism against the international
tribunal which found them not guilty in the
sense of the indictment.

Here the paper cited a letter from a reader
who expressed his disagreement with the dem-
onstrations and found it “strange” that this
movement was instituted by a people who
“up to the last days supported Hitler and
his big and small followers by playing sol-
dier and to whom Hitler also owed his as-
sumption of power.”

The letter-writer further contended that
the main thing in Germany at present is to
put justice and law into effect again, to
esteem humanity, and rid the nation of dic-
tatorial and demagogic conditions. Through
such means, stated the writer, “we will im-
press the world more than by a commanded
anger of the people.”

“We cannot agree with the attitude of the
writer,” stated the “Telegraf” adding that
his conclusions too are wrong, because in
order to re-enact law and order and regain
the confidence of the world “we must clean
our own house of all remains of nazism and
militarism.”

“Cannot the recent demonstractions be ex-
plained by the fact that many Germans have
realized by the Nuremberg aquittals what
decisive things must be done in the interest
of a stabilization of democracy?” asked the
paper. “This can be the only reason for the
. .. demonstrations and this is the only way
to understand those who honestly desire to
clean our German house.”

\

--- Page 29 ---
Press Sees Paris Conference
Forming World Public Opinion

US newspapers in editorial comment on
the results of the Paris Peace Conference
regret the evidences of East-West differences,
but assert that the Conference has at least
healthfully served to define more clearly the
causes and details of those differences to the
public.

The point is also made that the conference
enabled smaller nations to express their view-
points, in turn enlarging their knowledge
and scope of world opinion on peace-making
problems.

The St. Louis Globe Democrat said in part:
“All the 21-Nation Conference could do was
give voice to the attitudes of smaller nations.
This it did and at length. Every facet of the
problems involved came in for some frank
talking and some of the claims, warnings and
suggestions will undoubtedly be weighed in
perfection of the treaties. The meetings fur-
nished plethora of good spade work.”

In its editorial on the Conference vote on
the Italian Peace Treaty The New York
Times said: “It is a violation of the principles
of wartime agreements in favor of power
politics, forced by Russia and acquiesced in
by the United States and Great Britain, which
inevitably led to the formation of power
blocs that are now splitting the world in two.

“Tf wartime agreements had been followed,
the borders of Italy as of all countries would
have been setiled in conformity with the
freely expressed wishes of the peoples con-
cerned, as provided in the Atlantic Charter,
and both victors and vanquished would have
been able to contribute to the reconstruction
of the world through free access on equal
terms to the trade and raw materials of the
world which are needed for their economic
prosperity.”

In a previous editorial on the Conference’s
work, The Times said: “(The Conference)

26

tary strategy of the war and the resulting
power distribution, the compromise reached
by the Big-Four is the only possible peace
settlement at this time, which should facilitate
its general acceptance. But it also brought
into the open for all men to see why the com-
promise falls short of the high principles to
which the victors had pledged themselves and
where the responsibility lies.

“In so far as it helped to mobilize world
opinion to support the fight put up by the
United States to put these principles into
effect as much as possible, it also helped to
save the compromise from being made worse
through further one-sided concessions to
arbitrary power.”

The New York Herald Tribune: “To put
it over simply, the West pressed for the Con-
ference as a means of summoning up voting
majorities and ‘world opinion’ — both more
or less meaningless in actual context —
against Russian aims. Russia accepted the
Conference as an equally suitable means for
summoning up her own weapons of propa-
ganda, Communist Party discipline and in-
filtration tactics against the West.

“The great importance of the result is that
both attempts have now substantially failed,
as they were doomed to do. Settlements, in
so far as they have been made, have followed
neither the dictates of Western voting pro-
cesses nor those of Russian totalitarian ‘De-
mocracy;’ they have actually coincided with
the balance of politico-military power al-
ready established. Issues which could not
be settled have gone back to wait as they had
to do from the first, on the Big Four.”

The St. Louis Star-Times: “This is no time
for Pollyannas, and no time for dismissing
the differences among nations as unimportant,
for ignoring actions which are at least in-
directly hostile.

“Yet the turn toward moderation in the

--- Page 30 ---
more recent utterances of the top statesmen
— Byrnes, Stalin, Eden and now Vishinsky
and Connally need not be dismissed as mean-
ingless. They may be — they just may be
— an indication that the diplomats realized
that... their respective national grievances

are a light burden compared with another war.

“Such a realization could be the beginning
of profound, peace-giving wisdom. It could
lead away from both appeasement and truc-
ulence to that intelligent compromise which
still is the only device by which vastly dif-
ferent nations can get along together.”

Report Viewed as Step toward
Final Solution of Atom Control

The recent unanimous report of the 12-
Nation Scientists Committee of the UN
Atomic Commission stating that international
control of atomic energy is feasible at the
technological level was viewed by US news-
paper editorials as a significant step in mov-
ing discussions on to the vital political level
where final decision must be made on the
form international control will take.

The New York Times, after pointing out
that “the case of atomic scientists has always
rested on international control, specifically on
inspection and hence on technological feasi-
bility,” said:

“If (as the report implies) clandestine di-
version of purified uranium or plutonium is
easy, what becomes of the Russian argument
that each government should be bound by
treaty to regulate its own production and
use of uranium and thorium . . . We need
more than treaties to safeguard mankind. We
must hope the Russians will finally face
this fact.”

The Times concluded: “This report does
not itself relieve the deadlock between Amer-
ican and Russian points of view. It is, nev-
ertheless wholly in line with the American
plan, as our representative on the commission,
Bernard M. Baruch, has recognized. And
inescapable scientific facts, in the end, must
determine political adjustment if the post-
atomic world is to become secure and free.”

27

The New York Herald Tribune and
Washington Post were among the many
papers which regarded the report as a sig-
nificant step toward the more critical politi-
cal discussion of the problem, the Washing-
ton Post further commented:

“It is only through an atomic develop-
ment authority, absolutely controlling every
phase of atomic energy production from mine
to allocation of nuclear fuel, that inspection
can be brought within manageable limit and
within limits acceptable to sovereign nations
. .. ‘Raw materials are readily available,’ it
notes, ‘for production of from 70 to 3,500
bombs per year, or for generation of electric
power at rate of two million kilowatts, and
possible many times this rate.’ Alternatives
constitute the most decisive choice before the
world.” B

The Philadelphia Inquirer, after express-
ing gratification that the Soviet member of '
Scientists’ Committee generally supported the
Commitiee’s report, said: “Some cession of
national authority must be made by nations
which wish to share secrets and possible bene-
fits of atomic power. They can’t have those
benefits and ‘iron curtains’ of secrecy at the
same time.”

The Cincinnatti Enquirer called for the
United States “to try again and again to find
a formula by which the Soviet Union and
other major powers can be induced to go
along on a fool-proof program for world
control of atomic energy. To relax our effort,
or even to stand rigidly on the proposal we
already have made is to bow to the near-cer-
tainty of a war more destructive than the last.”

The Indianpolis Star: “It is easier for
scientists to agree than statesmen. They
deal with facts and data that need not be
evaluated through the screen of emotions,
prejudices and ideologies which have always
divided mankind against itself. But the
people of the world want peace. When com-
mon people of all countries understand the
true nature of an atomic war, when they
know enough of its horror and devastation,
they may be able to force their leaders to
protect them from it through international

--- Page 31 ---
control.”
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch: “It is im-
possible to read the report without thinking

at every point of the principal objection”

which Russia has raised to the (US) plan for
atomic energy control. The Soviet Union
has, proposed that instead of having inter-
national inspection, each nation inspect itself.

“Such a plan would leave the prevention
of the crime to the criminal. It would insure
that inspection would be done in every couti-
try where it was unnecessary and that it
would not be done in any country where it

" was necessary.”

Editorials Welcome Truman’s
Action Lifting Meat Controls

President Truman’s action in lifting price
controls from livestock and meat, as an-
nounced in his recent radio address, was
‘on the whole welcomed by the US press as
the best possible move to alleviate the do-
mestic meat shortage.

At the same time, however, many news-

papers criticized the President for not re- ~

moving price controls earlier and attacked
the administration’s stabilization program
as a weak one.

The Baltimore Sun urged government ac-
tions such as a cut in federal spending to
curb inflation, predicting that some inflation
is unavoidable because current and foresee-
able US production levels are not high
enough to take care of the present potential
demand for foodstuffs and capital goods.

The Sun said: “The domestic demand on
US production is only part of the potential
demand.” The rest of it comes from the
outside world, rightly we have made our
credit available to other nations, particularly
those which fought beside us in the war.
This means, in many cases, an additional
call on our available supplies.”

The New York Times said in part: “The
problem now is to increase the flow of need-
ed goods. Business and labor have a joint
responsibility to do everything in their power
to expand output. The President correctly
pointed out that ‘abundant production is

28

the only sure and safe road to a free market.’
This is also the road to higher real wages
and to lower prices.”

The, New York Herald Tribune: “This
newspaper has believed that meat controls
were unworkable and it is glad to applaud
the President as he cuts the Gordian knot.
It still thinks that an administration which
would not tie so many Gordian knots in the
first place and which would have wit to
untie them in time . . . would serve the na-
tion somewhat better than it is being served
today.”

The Cleveland Plain Dealer, welcoming the
prospect of the return of a “free price econo-
my.” said, “If a genuinely free economy is
to be the goal of the government in the year
ahead we may well recover much of the
ground lost in the first year of peace and be
surprised again at our powers of recupera-
tion.”

The Washington Post: “Other aspects of
the phoney dearth (of meat) concerned us,
as it did the President. He was ‘thinking of
men thrown out of work in shoe factories,
of patients in hospitals deprived of insulin
and other necessary medicines which come
from by-products of meat, of miners and
children whose diet has been unbalanced ...

“The President will no doubt be accused
of vote-getting. But no such accusation will
be leveled at him by anybody with any ob-
jective judgment ... We feel that the return
to a free market is premature, but the na-
tion can still escape the worst ravages of
our inflation if all sections of the community
replace government discipline with self-dis-
cipline.”

The New Orleans Item: “Those engaged
in meat production, processing and distribu-
tion must prove that it has not been their
purpose to abuse the freedom that is now
restored. Their victory was won because
the weight of public opinion was behind
them. But they can turn this mighty force
against themselves if they do not balance
the opportunity to gouge exorbitant prof-
its against the security of their economic
independence for the future.”