--- Page 2 ---
WEEKLY |

--- Page 3 ---
WALDECK

FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR

HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

ZIEGENHAIN
MARBURG Ge

ALSFELD
LAUTERBACH,
OBER &
LAHNKREIS
‘ 4 RIEOBERG

Fi ey
aren QBERTAUNUS| .
Ry
OFFENBACH

BIEDEN-~
OPF

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IEIDELBERG) MOS BACH
BRUCHSA

HEILBRONN

te “a BACKNANG

LEONBER Sena
BOBLINGEN Frases|

OFSHEIM

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

0

Nt MATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U. S
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Interzonal Travel of German Civilians .
Conduct of Troops
Theater Placement Board

Czechoslovak Army Guard Detachments .

Designation of Military Authorities for Handling of Military Personnel
Traffic Cases and Military Government Courts for Trial of Civilian
Trattic Violations

Unit Publications

Clearance of Personnel for Cryptographic Duties

Russian Liaison Agents and Interpreter Course

Voting by Personnel of the Armed Forces .

Identification of Persons Requesting Classified Military Information
Organization. Responsibilities and Functions of the United States Element,
Allied Commission for Austria (USACA Section) .

Authority for Foreign Liaison Officers to Contact German Institutions
Procurement in Italy, Supplemental Insfructions to Part Il, USFET-SOP
No 75, 1 April 1946. "

Supply of Quartermaster Items and Services to Military Communities
Disposition of Internees Held in Civilian Internment Enclosures.
Removal of Important German Officials .

Emigration to the United States .

Distribution of Revenue from Interzonal Traffic

Conversion and Redesignation of Certain Quartermaster Corps Units

Application for Regular Army Commissions .

Diphtheria Immunization .. fot pe ke

AG 014.1 GEC-AGO
27 Aug 1946, USFET

AG 333 GEC-AGO
5 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 334 GAP-AGO
14 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 370.093 GDS-AGO
14 Sept 1946, USFET
AG 230.741 GAP-AGO
16 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 461 BPR-AGO
17 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 311.5 (AG)
18 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 322.01 GBI-AGO

. 19. Sept.1946, USFET

AG 014.35 AGO
19 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 200.2 GBI-AGO
19 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 322 ACA/X
20 Sept 1946, USFA

AG 322.01 ALC-AGO
20 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 400.12 GDS-AGO
20 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 475 RMJ-AGO

_ 20 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 383.6 — GNMCB

21 Sept 1946, Hq 3rd Army
AG 014.12-2 (LD)

21 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.391 GEC-AGO
21 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 012.2 (TD)
23 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 322 GCT-AGO
23 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 210.1 GAP-AGO
24 Sept 1946, USFET.

AG 720 MCH-AGO
24 Sept 1946, USFET

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

DISCHARGED POW'S — The picture on this
week's cover shows a group of men who had
been held by the US Army as prisoners of
war putting on their packs ready to march to
the train that will carry them to their homes.
The ex-POW's are part of 7,726,060 men
who had been released by the United States as

of 15 July 1946. See “Demobilization of Ger-

many's Armed Forces” on Page 4 of this issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Demobilization of Germany’s Armed
Forces is taken from the Monthly Report of the
Military Governor No. 13. It is the first of two
articles which the “Weekly Information Bulletin”
will present on the carrying cut of the demilita-
rization program in the US Zone.

Our Foreign Policy lists the twelve fun-
dementals of US foreign policy as outlined by
President Truman at his press conference 20
September and transcribed by the Office of

Political Affairs, OMGUS from the State De- -

partment Radio Bulletin.

Pertinent excerpts from official instructions
will be placed in the \“Weekly Information
Bulletin” as space allows. The first of these
excerpts appear on page 21 of this issue.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Demobilization of Germany's Armed Forces
Liberalizing German Information Services
Our Foreign Policy

Jewish DP’s Express Gratitude for US Aid
Commercial Activities Defined

Nuremberg Toy Plant

Restitution Shipments

GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT

PAGE

12
14
16

17
22
24

--- Page 7 ---
he German army, navy and air force have

been completely demobilized; the US
holdings of prisoners of war have been re-
duced to about two percent of those origin-
ally taken; all enemy war material has been
surveyed and its disposal is expected to be
largely completed by the end of 1946; the
destruction of the minefields and fortifica-
tions earmarked for completion by July 1947
is almost 70 percent finished.

That is a summary of demilitarization in
the US Zone of Germany as shown in the
report of the Office of the Military Governor
through July. The demilitarization opera-
tions in the US Zone are being carried out
strictly in accordance with the decision of
the Crimea Conference, the Berlin Protocol
as signed at Potsdam, and the laws, direc-
tives and regulations laid down by the Allied
Control Authority.

7,726,060 POW’S RELEASED

The United States held almost 8,000,000
men as prisoners of war at the end of the
European war, but as of 15 July 7,726,060,
or almost 98 percent, had been released, leav-
ing 216,657 still being held, either because
they fall into automatic arrest categories and
might be security threats, because they are
still in hospitals, or because the work they
are performing as members of labor service
units warrants their retention for a longer
period.

The Allied policy in disbanding the Ger-
man armed forces was established by the
Control Council Directive No. 18 which
provided for uniformity in all four occupa-
tion zones. The disbandment was to be meth-
odical and controlled. A formal -discharge
certificate was to be issued to each individual
released and the form used was to be the
same for all zones.

SEVERAL GROUPS DETAINED

All military -and affiliated para-military
forces were to be released in accordance with
Allied demands for German labor. Suspect-
ed war criminals and security suspects were
to be detained until they had been thorough-
ly investigated and, where appropriate, pros-
ecuted. Potentially dangerous officers of
military and -para-military organizations
were to be detained. The men were to be
discharged into those zones of Germany in
which their previous homes were situated.

Upon their discharge the men were forbid-
den to wear their uniforms unless dyed a
different color and. were prohibited from
wearing any insignia of former rank or
medals received during the war. Military
training, military formations, military and
civil parades -were forbidden. Military
educational institutions and all. veterans’
organizations were declared illegal and were .
closed. The use of sports and athletic contests
as a means of concealed perpetuation of mil-

--- Page 8 ---
(Above) A German prisoner of war at.a POW camp in Nuremberg
handing over his soldiers book{prior to receiving his discharge papers. .

itary formations was banned.. Organizations
engaged in aviation, parachuting, gliding,
fencing, military or para-military drill or
display, or shooting with firearms were
specifically forbidden.

Documents which formed the basis of an
order of battle of the Wehrmacht, currently
in Allied hands, were to be destroyed when
they had served the purposes of the ‘Allies.

Of the 7,726,060. who have been -released,
3,247,514 were discharged into’ the US Zone,
2,393,342 were transferred to other zones
and 2,085,204 otherwise released. In the last
group were deaths, desertions, Volkssturm
and camp followers released without formal
discharge. Those transferred to other zones
did not include 175,000 prisoners of war
originally held in the United States but were
a British responsibility and were shipped to
Great Britain. Besides these, approximately
195,000 had been shipped to the United

States and all have been returned except 250
as of 15 July. Sy

Of the 291,000 prisoners of war formerly
in Italy, all but 39,900 had been discharged;
transferred or otherwise released. In ‘Austria,
the US holdings amounted to 132,000, of
whom all but 242 have been released. Many
of the prisoners, however, have merely
altered their status from military to civilian
internees and continued to be held as long as
they are considered security threats.

LABOR SERVICE UNITS

In the US Zone and in the liberated
countries, there were -originally ~ almost
750,000: prisoners of ..war in labor service
units, Ag of 31 July this number had de-
creased to 91,412 organized into 420 units.
By 15 September the total personnel had
been reduced to 14,932: These units, which
are maintained from US. military stocks are

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 9 ---
It is our anflexible purpose ‘to. destroy:
German militarism and Nazism and_ to
‘ensure that Germany will never again be
able to disturb thé peace of the world. We
are determined to disarm and disband all
German, armed forces; break up for all
time the German General Staff that has
repeatedly contrived the resurgence of
German militarism; remove or destroy all
German military equipment; eliminate or
control all German industry that could be
used for military production; bring all

war. criminals to justice and swift punish-

out the Nazi Party,. Nazi-laws, organiza-

issued ‘by the Allied Powers after the

ment and exact reparations in kind for the
destruction wrought by Germans; wipe

tions and institutions; remove all Nazi
and wmilitarist influences from public
office and from the cultural and economic
life of the German people; and take in
harmony such other measures:in Germany
as may be necessary to the future peace
and safety of the world. — Communique

Crimea Conference in February 1945.

composed of: manual laborers, stevedores,
depot laborers,’ carpenters and plumbers.
They operate in: support of the US Forces
both in the occupied zone and in the liberated
countries. _Each unit is composed of ap-
proximately 200—250 men and operates
under small detachements of US officers and
men. The units are organized into companies,
groups and areas for administrative con-
venience. ~ ; ,
INDIVIDUAL SKILLS CONSIDERED

The particular skills of individual pris-
oners were taken into account in most cases
in determining the type of labor service units
to which they were assigned. Thus prisoners
of war with automobile mechanic experience
were assigned to ordnance maintenance com-
panies, and those with stockroom experience
were placed in quartermaster depot com-
panies. Others were assigned to bomb dis-
posal companies, to engineer aviation units
for manual labor in constructing airfields, or
to engineer construction units for the purpose
of constructing billets, military communities,
staging areas and other installations.

The staffs of all units down to and includ-
ing companies are composed of US per-
sonnel. These units undergo no training other
than that incidental to their labor and are
entirely unarmed. It is anticipated that labor
service units in the US Zone will be dis-
banded and the prisoner personnel discharged
by 1 March 1947. Those units performing
tasks in liberated areas will be disbanded as

the need for them ceases, and in any event
by 1 July 1947. ;

The present US holdings of SS (Schutz-
staffel). troops total 11,064. All members of
the Waffen (combat) SS above the grade of
sergeant and all members. of the Allgemeine
(home guard) SS above the grade of corporal
are held as members of an indicted organiza-
tion. The recent verdict of the International
Military Tribunal at Nuremberg held that
the SS was a criminal organization.

The 7,969 individuals held in the category
of other automatic arrestees include General
Staff Corps officers, senior members of para-
military organizations other than the SS,
high officials of the Nazi Party, and other
individuals in similar classes who are held in
confinement primarily as war criminals and
security suspects and only incidentally as
prisoners of war.

POW’S HELD IN HOSPITALS

Prisoners of war in hospitals totaled more
than 175,000 in August 1945 but by the end
of last July, this number had been reduced
to 7,583, mostly in German hospitals in the
US Zone. The hospitals in the US Zone are
staffed to a considerable degree with ‘tech-
nical personnel of the former German
Sanitary Corps. Although these’ hospitals
operate under the direct supervision of per-
sonnel of US medical battalions, they are not
military organizations in any sense and are

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 10 ---
SSS
SS \N :

W

HMR

sl

LIBERALIZING

GERMAN

INFORMATION

SERVICES

Or: and frank discussion of German
political affairs and personalities by the
German press will he allowed and encourag-
ed under a new OMGUS directive, entitled
“Policy Instruction No. 3 to All Licensees in
German Information Services.” It permits
the publication or broadcast of any material
except Nazi and militarist propaganda and
material constituting a malicious attack on
Military Government or aiming to disrupt
unity among the Occupying Powers. It also
permits German Information services to
quote from non-German newspapers, radio
stations and magazines, subject to copyright
restrictions.

PRESS FREE OF CENSORSHIP

Describing the directive as a considerable
advance in granting freedom to the press
over the previous instruction issued in Sep-
tember 1945, the Director of Information
Control, OMGUS, emphasized that at no
time during the past year have newspapers
in the US Zone been subject to censorship.
The publishers exercise complete jurisdiction
over and bear the responsibility for what
goes into their papers. If subsequent review
reveals that they have violated directives,
they are subject to reprimands or to more
severe penalties.

It was pointed out that the record of near-
ly all publishers has been excellent, however,
and that there is every reason to expect that

--- Page 11 ---
the German information services will use this
new freedom to give better news coverage
and to hasten the reintegration of the Ger-
man people into the family of democratic
nations. Under the new instruction the Ger-
man press can carry factual news accounts
of world events as freely as the press of
other nations. Banning of Nazi and milita-
rist propaganda and malicious material will
not exclude legitimate news stories.

TEXT OF DIRECTIVE

The text of the directive, Policy Instruc-
tion No. 3 to All Licensees in German In-
formation Services, AG 000.7 (IC), OMGUS,
30 September 1946, follows:

1. General. Military Government believes
that free exchange of opinions and ideas is
basic to the establishment in Germany of a
democratic society in which the individual is
conscious of his responsibilities. To this end
it is the purpose of Military Government to
allow increasing freedoms and responsibilities
in the information services at such time and
in such measure as those responsible for the
operation of information services give evi-
dence of their readiness and their fitness to
assume them. The length of the phase through
which the German press, theater, publishing
industry, etc., must pass in order to qualify
for complete freedom will therefore depend,
in part, on the conduct of the licensees. Each
licensee is thus a trustee for a vital part of
Germany’s future. In applying for and ac-
cepting a license, hé has affirmed his inten-
tion to work in the public interest, to the
end that freedom under democracy may be
attained.

2. Freedom of Expression. Freedom of
press and of speech is encouraged, subject to
the necessity for maintaining military se-
curity and the interests of Allied Military
Government and preventing Nazi or militarist
activity or propaganda.

a) Maintenance of Military Security. Dis-
semination of any type of news, information
or editorial, which incites to riot or resistance
to Military Government, jeopardizes the oc-
cupying troops, or otherwise endangers mil-

itary security, is prohibited.

b) Nazi and Militarist Propaganda. -Dis-
semination of Nazi and militarist propaganda,
including the propagation of National So-
cialist or related “voelkisch” ideas, such as
racism and race hatred, any Fascist or anti-
democratic ideas,’ and any militarist ideas,
pan-Germanism and German imperialism is
prohibited.

c) Criticism of Military Government Poli-.
cies or Personnel. Dissemination of any type
of news, information or editorial, which con-
stitutes a malicious attack upon policies or
personnel of Military Government, aims to
disrupt unity among the Allies, or seeks to
evoke the distrust and hostility of the Ger-
man people against any Occupying Power,
is prohibited. :

3. Equitable Opportunity for Expression
of Varying Points of View. Because of short-
age of facilities and materials the number of
licensees will necessarily be limited. There-
fore, licensees will insure that equitable op-
portunity of expression is given all important
parties and points of view, except when spe-
cifically exempted from this provision by the
terms of their license, or when the nature of
the medium is such that political opinions
are not ordinarily expressed.

4. Selection of Personnel. The licensee
must select his personnel from among those
whose past records show them to be capable
of assisting in the building of a sound, dem-
ocratic society in Germany. Eligibility for
employment shall be governed by the law for
Liberation from National Socialism and Mil-
itarism except that under no condition will
any person be employed in a policy making,
editorial or other position in which he sub-
stantially influences the information presented
to the German people, who has been a proved
or an avowed believer in Nazism or racial
and militaristic creeds, an officer in any
party formation or a member of any organ-
ization found to be a war criminal by the In-
ternational Military Tribunal, unless -duly
registered for such employment or granted
special permission by the Office of Informa-

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 12 ---
Our

Foreign
Policy

welve fundamentals of the established US

foreign policy were listed by President
Truman at his press conference 20 September.
reaffirming the statements and explanations
made on numerous occasions in the past year
by the President and the Secretary of State.

The fundamental points in US foreign
policy were first enunciated by President
Truman in his Navy Day speech last October,
reiterated in his State of the Union message
to Congress in January and amplified in his
Army Day address in Chicago in April.

Both the President and Secretary of State
Byrnes have repeatedly emphasized that the
basic objective of US foreign policy is the
attainment and preservation of world peace
through the United Nations.

Following are 12 fundamentals of foreign
policy as outlined by President Truman.

1. We seek no territorial expansion or
selfish advantage. We have no plans for ag-
gression against any other state, large or
small. We have no objective which need

clash with the peaceful aims of any other
nation.

2. We believe in the eventual return of
sovereign rights and self-government to all
peoples who have been deprived of them by
force.

3. We shall approve no territorial changes
in any friendly part of the world unless they
accord with the freely expressed wishes of
the people concerned.

4. We believe that all peoples who are
prepared for self-government should be per-
mitted to choose their own form of govern-
ment by their own freely expressed choice,
with no interference from any foreign source.
That is true in Europe, in Asia, in Africa, as
in the Western Hemisphere.

5. By the combined and cooperative action
of our war allies, we shall help the de-
feated enemy states establish peaceful dem-
ocratic governments of their own free
choice, and we shall iry to attain a world in
which Nazism, Fascism, and military aggres-

--- Page 13 ---
sion cannot exist.

6. We shall refuse to recognize any gov-
ernment imposed upon any nation by the
force of any foreign power. In some cases
it may be impossible to prevent forceful im-
position of such a government. But the
United States will not recognize any such
government.

7. We believe that all nations should have
the freedom of the seas and equal rights to
the navigation of boundary rivers and water-
ways and of rivers and waterways which
pass through more than one country.

8. We believe that all states which are
accepted in the society of nations should have
access on equal terms to the trade and the
raw materials of the world.

9. We believe that the sovereign states of
the Western Hemisphere without inter-
ference from outside the Western Hemi-
sphere, must work with their neighbors in
the solution of their common problems.

10. We believe that full economic collab-
oration between all nations, great and small,
is essential to the improvement of living con-
ditions all over the world, and to the estab-
lishment of freedom from fear and freedom
from want.

11. We shall continue to strive to pro-
mote freedom of expression and freedom
of religion throughout the peace-loving areas
of the world.

12. We are convinced that the preserv-
ation of peace between nations requires a
United Nations Organization composed of all
the peace-loving nations of the world who
are willing jointly to use force if necessary
to insure peace.

In his Chicago address on April the Pres-
ident elaborated on US Foreign Policy for
specific areas.

“Tn the Far East,” he said, “our program
for peace is designed to combat and remedy
the conditions that made it possible for
Japan to turn upon her neighbors. .. . It
is a part of our strategy of peace, therefore,
to assist in the rehabilitation and develop-
ment of the Far Eastern countries. . . We
recognize that the Soviet Union, the British

10

Commonwealth and other nations have im-
portant interests in the Far East. In return
we expect recognition by them that we also
have an interest in maintaining peace and
security in that area.”

Regarding the Near and Middle East, the
President said: “The United Nations have a
right to insist that integrity of the countries
of the Near and Middle East must not be
threatened by coercion or penetration.”

With regard to US policy in Europe, Mr.
Truman said the United States desired to
help the governments of Europe in economic
reconstruction and to lay the groundwork of
a world trading system which will strength-
en and safeguard the peace. ‘We shall
work to achieve equal opportunity in world
trade.”

The President reaffirmed the Good Neigh-
bor Policy in Latin America and declared
the United States “intends to join with the
other republics in a regional pact to provide
a common defense against attack.”

BYRNES’ POLICY STATEMENTS

In statements on foreign policy Secretary
Byrnes has outlined the US position partic-
ularly towards Russia and a reconstituted
Germany. In a speech to the Overseas Press
Club in New York City last February he
said:

“So far as the United States is concerned
we will gang up against no state, we will do
nothing to break the world into exclusive
blocs or spheres of influence, in this atomic
age we will not seek to divide a world which
is one and indivisible.

“We have openly, gladly and whole-
heartedly welcomed our Soviet ally as a
great power, second to none in the family of
the United Nations. We have approved many
adjustments in her favor, and in the process
resolved many serious doubts in her favor
. .. but in the interests of world peace and
in the interests of our common and traditional
friendship we must make it plain that the
United States intends to defend the (United
Nations) charter.”

In the same speech Mr. Byrnes also said:

(Continued on page 26)

(Right) In ceremonial robes two Jewish men at the Duppel
Center read the Torah in preparafion for services cele-
brating the Jewish New Year. Photo by Reis

--- Page 14 ---
ee expressing gratitude for the efforts

made by the US Occupation Forces on
behalf of Berlin’s Jewish Displaced Persons
have been received by the high ranking US
Army and Military Government officers who
were guests at the Duppel Displaced Persons
Center during Holy Day Services ushering
in the Jewish New Year, 26-27 September.

The Jewish Central Committee in a letter
to Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Military
Governor, transmitted the thanks of the
Duppel Center DP’s, for the “liberty and
generosity” extended to them during the
period of US occupation. ‘The American
ideals serve as a symbol of our liberation,
protection and hope for a bright future
which is yet to come through the realization
of our desire to become free citizens in our

own Palestine,” the Committee said.

A letter to Maj. Gen. Frank A. Keating,
Commanding General, Berlin District, de-
clared that the General’s presence at the
New Year’s service was still another sign
of his interest in the welfare of Berlin’s
Displaced Persons.

“The principles of our religion and tradi-
tion are based on justice, fairness and against
oppression,” the committee’s message to Am-
bassador Robert D. Murphy, US Political
Advisor for Germany, stated. ‘Therefore
we respect the American people whose way
of life is justice and equality, which repre-
sents itself so prominently in the generous
help and protection rendered to us. So for
this day we beg you to accept our very best
wishes for you .. .”

--- Page 15 ---
Commercial Activities Defined

USFET Circular No. 140 Lists Businesses and Transactions
Permitted and Prohibited to US Military, Civilian Personnel

Commercial transactions and _ activities,
permitted and prohibited in the Euro-
pean Theater, by all persons under USFET
jurisdiction are detailed in USFET Circular
No. 140, dated 26 September 1946, under
the policy of the Theater Commander ‘that
these persons “shall not, insofar as can be
avoided, disturb the economy of the occupied
territories of Germany or Austria, nor use
their presence here in order to obtain or to
plan to obtain any commercial or monetary
advantage for themselves or for others.”

This circular applies to all US military
personnel; personnel employed. by, serving
with or accompanying the US forces, and
personnel authorized to be present within
the theater with the permission and auth-
ority of the Theater Commander. Dependents
of military and civilian personnel are also
affected by its’ provisions. Violation.of any
prohibition subjects the offender to trial by
court martial or other appropriate action.

The provisions of the circular are ap-
plicable to all transactions in the European
Theater, except where they are specifically
limited to transactions in the US occupied
territories of Germany and Austria. The
“Trading with the Enemy Act” restricts
transactions involving German and Austrian
nationals, the circular implementing and con-
forming to that act. Army Regulations (AR
600-10), applicable throughout the theater,
imposes additional restrictions on transac-
tions by military personnel, and laws of lo-
cal and national governments concerned may
restrict transactions outside the US occupied
territories of Germany and Austria. Noth-
ing in the circular exempts personnel under
jurisdiction of USFET headquarters from
complying with applicable laws of such gov-
ernments.

The provisions governing ‘ commercial
transactions and activities in thé European

12

Theater by an individual in his own name
or as agent or on behalf of another are lis-
ted as follows: 5

Real property located in Germany or Aus-
izia or located outside Germany or Austria
and owned by a German or Austria nation-
al or resident may not be bought, sold,
leased or otherwise acquired or transferred.

Tangible Personal Property

1. Purchases: Tangible personal property
which is not rationed by a local or national
government may be purchased in the occupi-
ed territories of Germany or Austria from
indigenous sources at prevailing legal prices
for the personal use of the individual or for
use as gifts or souvenirs, provided such
purchases are not made for investment, re-
sale or otherwise for profit; items rationed
by a local or national government may not
be purchased in the occupied territories of
Germany or Austria.

Other tangible personal property located
outside the occupied territories of Germany
or Austria may -be purchased or otherwise
acquired from indigenous sources without
regard to the restrictions contained in the
two paragraphs on “Purchases;” but if such
property is owned by a German or Austrian
national or resident, it may not be bought,
acquired, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt
in. Tangible personal property may also be
purchased from any US governmental agency
authorized to operate in the theater. Private
motor vehicles may not, however, be pur-
chased from German or Austrian owners.

2. Sales and Trading: No person subject
to the provisions of the circular may sell
tangible personal property to any person,
including Germans and Austrians, not sub-
ject to this circular. No tangible personal
property subject to US Department of Com-
merce export restrictions may be transferred
to persons other than US citizens. USFET

--- Page 16 ---
Headquarters is compiling and will publish
lists of US exports which are prohibited by
US law or regulations from resale except to
US citizens. Privately owned motor vehicles
may be sold or transferred only as prescrib-
ed by provisions of the “Motor Vehicle and
Traffic Code.”

3. Barter: The establishment of closely
controlled barter ‘stores is authorized. Such
barter stores will be established, operated
and controlled in accordance with regula-
tions to be published by USFET headquar-
ters. No person subject to this circular may
barter tangible personal property with any
person, including Germans and Austrians,
not subject to this circular except in barter
stores duly established by US authorities.

4. Gifts: While the above prohibitions
against disposal of property includes legal
gifts, it is not intended to prohibit minor
gifts of a sociable or charitable nature which
are given without obligation of any kind.

Stocks, bonds and other securities and
intangible personal property may not be
bought, sold, acquired, transferred or other-
wise disposed of if issued by a person or
corporation located by residence, domicile
or nationality in Germany or Austria. In-
tangible personal property may not be
bought, sold, acquired, transferred or other-
wise disposed of if it represents any interest,
direct or indirect, in property located in Ger-
many or Austria, or it is owned by a Ger-
man or Austrian national or resident.

Other intangible personal property may
be bought, sold, acquired, transferred or
otherwise disposed of without regard to the
restrictions contained in these two para-
graphs. Stock of a corporation located in
Germany or Austria, which was acquired
prior to 7 December 1941, may be owned
and voted; and stock of a corporation located
outside of Germany or Austria, having sub-
sidiaries in Germany or Austria, may be
acquired, owned and voted.

No individual may be engaged in any pro-
fession, trade, business, transportation, min-
ing or other industry, in any capacity in the

13

US occupied territories of Germany and Aus-
tria, whether as owner, director, manager,
officer, consultant, employee or stockholder,
whether or not for profit, gain or other ad-
vantage, except as in the two paragraphs on
stocks, bonds and other intangible personal
property.

Personal services may be purchased at
prevailing legal prices when incident to or-
dinary residence within the theater. This in-
cludes employment of servants in accordance
with appicable directives.

Dealing in Currencies

Except as authorized, all personnel subject
to the jurisdiction of USFET Headquarters
are prohibited from — :

1. Importing US currency in excess of
50 dollars from the United States.

2. Retaining US currency in their posses-
sion longer than 48 hours after arrival in the
theater.

3. The export and import of any currency
in or out of any country in violation of the
currency export/import laws of the country
concerned. Such regulations are published
from time to time through technical fiscal
channels. In case of doubt, direct communi-
cation with the Office of the Theater Fiscal
Director is authorized.

4. Dealing in gold coins or gold bullion.

5. Taking part in negotiations involving
the sale of one continental currency for an-
other on behalf of persons resident in Europe
not amenable to the jurisdiction of USFET
Headquarters.

6. Importing into and exporting from
Europe, funds, securities or money for the
account of persons in Europe who are not
subject to the jurisdiction of USFET Head-
quarters,

7. The term “continental currencies” as
used in the circular includes Allied Military
Marks and British pounds sterling.

No person shall use the Army postal sys-
tem or any other communication system in
connection with any transaction prohibited
by the circular.

--- Page 17 ---
idee long famed for its production of

toys, is once more making a determined
bid to capture world markets. An example
of this effort is to be found in the Nurem-
berg toy plant illustrated on these two pages.
After being bombed out by Allied air at-
tacks, the factory salvaged its machinery
from the ruins and put its craftsmen back
to work. Its output, at first a mere trickle,
has now reached the point where a variety

of mechanical toys are being turned out for
German civilian consumption and for export
to the United States.

(Below lett) A worker looking over a piece of machin-
ery dug out of the ruins; (below) Hans Mueller,
famous inventor of mechanical toys, examining some
of his models; (right) craftsmen at the Nuremberg
plant assembling toy automobiles; (below right) a
display of finished toys. Photos by Byers

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
AUGUST SHIPMENTS INCLUDED FIRST
FORMAL RESTITUTION TO SOVIETS

S® restitutions shipments, totaling 2,000
art objects and 230,000 books, left the
Munich and Wiesbaden Collecting Points
and the Offenbach Archival Depot in
August. Two of these shipments went to
the Netherlands, one each to France and
Czechoslovakia, and two to the Soviet Union.

Technical manuals and .other library
material looted from various Russian insti-
tutions, composed the first formal restitution
shipment to the Soviet Union. (An informal
restitution had been made in October 1945
when archival material was turned over to
the Soviet Army under special USFET
directives.) Art objects made up the bulk
of the other five shipments.

MARBURG ARCHIVES RETURNED

The major event in the field of interzonal
exchange during the month was the return
of the Marburg archives from the Grafleben
mines in the British Zone. Final agreement
on interzonal exchange has not yet been
reached with the French, but a special
arrangement was made by which all the
material belonging to the Frankfurt His-
torical Museum was returned from the Vier-
herrenwald repositories in the French Zone.
Almost all material originating in the
British Zone has been returned from the
repositories in Wuerttemberg-Baden and
Greater Hesse, and the removal of such
material from the Bavarian repositories is
already underway.

Further progress was made in the
evacuation of repositories and the return of
German-owned material within the US Zone.
The Mitwitz repositories have made a total
of .10 shipments of .books belonging to the
city. and university. of Frankfurt. Some
1,500,000 volumes of the former Prussian
State Library are scheduled to be transferred
from the Heimbolthausen mines for storage

16

in the Marburg University Library. This
operation, which is taking three months to

complete, was begun in August.

The caskets of Frederick the Great, Frede-
rick William I and of Field Marshal von °
Hindenburg and his wife, which had been
at the Marburg Collecting Point, were turned
over to members of the Hohenzollern and
Hindenburg families and to the German
authorities for re-burial during the month.
Other important August movements included
further evacuation of the State Zoological
Collection from the Hohenberg and Planegg
repositories to Munich-Nymphenburg, the
return of some of the Bamberg archives and
Frankfurt museum material, and the transfer
of the remaining art holdings at Marburg to
the Wiesbaden Collecting Point.

Marburg, is no longer a Collecting Point,
but a major repository for German-owned
libraries and archives, under German cus-
todianship.

OCCASIONAL SPECTACULAR FINDS

Recent months were highlighted by_oc-
casional spectacular finds: of major stolen
art treasures. But emphasis in the field of
art investigation has now shifted to the re-
covery of a large number of lesser art ob-
jects which the Nazis obtained illegally in
the occupied territories. The Netherlands
alone has claimed more than 900 such ob-
jects. Much of this material passed through
the hands of the art dealers of Frankfurt,
where an intensive investigation has already
resulted in a number of important recoveries.
The Soviet authorities have loaned. US of-
ficials the complete administrative files of
the projected Fuehrer Museum at Linz, the
ambitious collection for which so many
treasures were: looted throughout occupied
Europe: These files are of great value in
identifying paintings of the-Linz Collection,
held at the collecting points.

--- Page 20 ---
Plan for Liquidating German
War Potential Set up by ACA

An “over-all concrete plan” to consolidate
the programs being carried out independently
in the four zones for the liquidation of Ger-
many’s war and industrial potential and to
keep ‘a constant watch on the progress of
liquidation” was set up by Directive No. 39
enacted by the Coordinating Committee of
the Allied Control Authority.

The procedure set up in the directive is in
three major parts: (1) taking a complete
census of the German war-industrial poten-
tial; (2) working out a clearly defined pro-
cedure of liquidation; (3) establishing
machinery to keep watch on the progress of
the liquidation.

Included in the census will be complete
lists of plants, workshops and industrial
installations, together with their laboratories,
which “wholly or in part constitute a war
potential.” The Coordinating Committee ex-
cepted laboratories ‘in the actual meaning of
the word,” explaining that their disposal is
under separate consideration.

Plants to be involved in the census and in
subsequent action are divided into three
categories: (1) those specifically producing
armaments or war weapons (2) those with
war potential, and (3) those judged suitable
for Germany’s peacetime economy.

In the first category are included plants
making aircraft or poisonous gases. The
second category includes those which make
. or process seagoing ships, beryllin, vanad-
ium, magnesium and other minerals, syn-
thetic gasoline, oil and certain types of roller
bearings. Left for the third category are
purely peacetime indusiries.

The Coordinating Committee specifies
three methods of liquidating plants: (1)
destruction; (2) declaration that they are
available for reparations; (3) delegation of
the plants to German peacetime economy.

17

Materials and equipment from war pl
“suitable for reparations and not neéded 1
other plants for permitted production in ac-
cordance with the plan for reparations
should be declared available for reparations
and those not suitable for this purpose
should be destroyed.”

Buildings especially adapted for the pro-
duction of war materials or especially built
for war purposes — such as anti-aircraft
defenses — shall be destroyed, although in
some cases they may be used temporarily for
occupation requirements.

Buildings of a general or non-war type
can be converted, used for occupation pur-
poses, or can be kept for peacetime use in
“permitted industries.”

Underground plants must be blown up or
flooded to make “their subsequent utilization
impossible,” except for certain plants located,
for example in mines or railroad tunnels,
which may be converted to peacetime use.

Plants with war potential — such as those
producing synthetic gasoline and rubber and
certain roller bearings — may be allowed
temporarily to operate. Each zonal com-
mander is to inform the Control Council on
1 November 1946 and quarterly there after
of the volume of production in each plant in
those industries left operating. The Control
Council will have the right to stop operation
of these plants if required “for security
reasons.”

In the third category, plants for purely
peacetime purposes are to be surveyed and
listed.

To control the vast process, the zone com-
manders are to draw up certificates after
liquidation of each plant, which will be sub-
mitted to the Committee for the Liquidation
of German War Potential. This committee
in turn will keep a register of information,
and is to report at least quarterly to the
Economic Directorate on the progress of
liquidation.

--- Page 21 ---
Evictions from DP Centers

Direct application has been made to the
German authorities for housing on the part
of persons being evicted from United Nations
Displaced Persons assembly centers. The
policy in this regard is as set forth in OM-
GUS Cable CC-4297,: “Evictions from DP
Assembly Centers,” 2 May 46, to all Land
OMG Directors, reading in part:

Offices of Military Government will
receive reasonable notice from the tactical
commanders as to the number of evictees and
the time of eviction from each camp, in order
to permit the German authorities to register,
transport and relocate evictees in as orderly
manner as possible.

It is essential that all concerned Military
Government organizations maintain constant
liaison with local tactical commanders re-
sponsible for DP’s and with concerned Ger-
man authorities to insure complete co-
ordination on the part of Military Govern-
ment, tactical commanders and the German
authorities in this matter.

Denazification Proceedings
Ninety-one clergymen and church officials
have been tried by Spruchkammern under
the German denazification law in Bavaria.
Of the Nazis or offenders (usually long time
members of the Nazi Party or its camps), 15
were placed in class III (lesser offenders)
and received monetary fines and prohibition
from church activities for specified periods,
while 44 class IV Nazis or followers received
fines up to RM 2,000. Nineteen of those tried
were exonerated and five were found to be
not affected under the denazification law.
The 91 clergymen who have faced the
Spruchkammern were part of a group of 156
who had been found to be mandatory
removals — as particularly undesirable
under the original MG denazification laws.
The names were referred to church author-
ities by OMGB prior to'5 March with the
request that they be. removed. Since these
authorities had taken no action by August,
their cases were forwarded to the Spruch-

18

kammern with the specification that all be
heard by 1 October. The denazification
ministry reported that 17 of the clergymen
could not be located and that the other 48
whose cases remain to be decided have been
suspended from clerical activities pending
the outcome of their cases before the Spruch-
kammern.

In orders of the denazification ministry,
church authorities have sent telegrams to the
affected churches prohibiting those clergymen
and officials whose cases have not been
heard before the Spruchkammern from
preaching or engaging in further clerical
activity until the denazification boards have
rendered decisions in their cases.

Germans and MG Personnel

New instructions to liberalize the restric-
tions on MG personnel in conferring with
Germans in official and semi-official posi-
tions and in governing this relationship were
announced by OMGUS.

Orders issued 23 June stated in substance
that, while MG officials in their relationships
with Germans should be courteous and con-
siderate, they must avoid the formation of
close friendships on a social basis.

“The purpose of this instruction remains
valid,” the OMGUS announcement said,
“namely, to assure a neutral and unbiased
attitude on the part of Military Government
officials and to prevent giving the impression
to the German people that any German is
unduly favored by Military Government.”

“The instruction is not intended to pre-
clude friendly relations of Military Govern-
ment officials with government officials and
other approved public, political party and
civic representatives, such as university
heads, trade union leaders, etc. Specifically,
Military Government personnel may invite
Germans in official and semi-official posi-
tions to Military Government messes or bil-
lets as their guests for the purpose of dis-
cussing normal business and matters of com-
mon interest in the conduct of their official
responsibilities. The entertainment’ offered
on such occasions will be of: a normal routine

--- Page 22 ---
character and not in the form of special or
elaborate social events. Lavish display of
food and other refreshment will be partic-
ularly avoided.”

Land Directors were instructed to ensure
that the authorization is applied to MG per-
sonnel under their command so as to main-
tain an unbiased attitude on the part of
American officials and to avoid any impres-
sion of favoritism.

Movies for German Youth

German youth are being the guests of US
units ‘in Greater Hesse at free showings of
approved American and German motion
pictures in a new phase of the American
program for young people. One of the first’
organizations to utilize the films was the
USAFE Youth Activities Section at Wies-
baden in sponsoring a showing of ‘Young
Tom Edison.”

Films are also being distributed through
the German Ministry of Education in Greater
Hesse to supplement classroom instruction.
The pictures, shown during school time as
part of the curriculum, have proved useful
in overcoming the instructional problems
posed by the lack of adequate text books,
MG education officials said.

Violates MG Ordinance

A 51-year-old German athletic instructor
and former army non-commissioned ‘officer
was sentenced by an MG Court at Heidel-
berg to six-months imprisonment for violat-
ing the MG law prohibiting military training.
The defendant, Hugo Becker, had been
arrested in Heidelberg after he had been
reported by several witnesses for marching
32 teen-age German boys and executing
military drill movements.

In passing sentence, the judge of the MG
court said the purpose of the law is to
prevent military training in any form within
occupied territory. “The accused,” the judge
added, “specifically violated the law in that
he permitted a group of 32 boys to march in
formation, execute facings and other military

19

movements.” The case is subject to review
by higher MG legal officers.

Dependents Delayed

Due to a lack of transportation facilities
and the present maritime labor difficulties in
the United States, former scheduled sailings
from the United States of dependents of US
personnel in the European Theater will be
delayed approximately two months, G-1
Division, Headquarters, USFET, said. In
reporting on the current dependent shipping
program, G-1 also stated that the situation
is not expected to improve before November.

With the limited shipping space now
available it is planned that the dependents
originally scheduled to sail in August will
do so in October; those listed for sailing in
September will be held back until November;
the October group will sail late in November
or early in December, and it will be sometime
between mid-December and the last of
January before the November group sails.

SelectiveServiceRegistration

All American citizens between the ages of
18 and 44 residing in Germany who have not
previously been registered under the US
Selective Service act. must register im-
mediately. The next of the official announce-
ment follows:

“All male citizens of the United States
between the ages of eighteen and forty-four,
inclusive, residing in Germany, if not pre-
viously registered, must register immediately
for Selective Service at the American Con-
sulate General, Huettenweg 7, Berlin-Dah-
lem, or the American Consular Office nearest
their place of residence (List in MG Weekly
Information Bulletin No 51 of 22 July).
Registrations must be accomplished by per-
sonal appearance.

“Those American men who fail to fulfill
their obligation as American citizens to
register will thereby render themselves liable
to prosecution as delinquents, should they
enter the United States’ jurisdiction, at some
future time.”

--- Page 23 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The first denazification tribunal within a
US Army-controlled internment camp was
set up in the Darmstadt Internment Camp,
where approximately 15,000 mandatory ar-
rest cases are held. Nine more such tribunals
will be instituted in the camp. These will
be responsible for the trial of all internees
except war crimes suspects and war crimes
witnesees.

The Soviet Military Administration in
Germany has agreed to supply the US and
British Sectors of Berlin with 500,000 raum
meters of wood and 180,000 tons of brown
coal briquettes for winter heating. Under
the tri-partite agreement, cost of the fire-
wood and coal will be charged against de-
liveries of steel and iron from the British
to the Soviet Zone.

VEHICLES RETURNED TO BUDAPEST

Approximately 100 vehicles, including fire
engines, ambulances, Red Cross and disin-
fection cars, trucks and street cleaning cars,
are being returned from Bavaria to the City
of Budapest from where they had been re-
moved in the last months of the war. The
fire engines, complete with hoods, ladders
and pressure equipment, and described as
the entire fire fighting force of Budapest,
was taken from the city when the Germans
fell back across the Danube early in 1945.

Letters of commendation were sent to Mit-
telbayerische Zeitung (Regensburg), Donau
Kurier (Ingolstadt), Main Post (Wuerzburg)
and Passauer Neue Presse for their crusad-
ing spirit in denazification and their stand
against all anti-democratic elements in Ger-
man public life.

To overcome expected lower supply of
electric power and coal this winter, a con-
servation plan for industry has been devel-
oped, and allocations have been reviewed to
assure that available fuel and power reach
important consumers such as transportation,
public utilities, hospitals and manufacturers
of such basic products as steel, chemicals
and building materials.

20

The US and British MG authorities have
agreed that for the purpose of marking high-
ways in their zones, international road signs
will be used with additional signs in English
where necessary.

DISTRIBUTION OF POTATOES

In order to distribute the potato crop equi-
tably among consumers in the US Zone, MG
has approved a uniform program for cel-
larage of 125 kilgrams of potatoes per capita
for the period 14 October 1946 to 20 July
1947. It is estimated that about 85 percent
of all non-self suppliers in the Zone will take
advantage of this opportunity to buy and
store their nine-month supply of potatoes
this fall.

Elections laws passed by the Laender con-
stiuent assemblies tentatively set 17 Novem-
ber in Bavaria and Greater Hesse and 24 No-
vember in Wuerttemberg-Baden as the dates
for the referenda on their respective cons-
titutions and for election of their respective
legislative bodies (Landtage).

The Wuerttemberg-Baden Radio Club,
made up largely of radio amateurs, has been
approved by MG. Its members are permitted
to use short-wave equipment to receive, but
not to transmit messages.

LABOR COURTS OPENED

Two labor courts and the one apellate
labor court in Greater Hesse were opened
in Frankfurt and Kassel. Courts, operating
under Allied Control Authority directive,
will be the only competent agency to ad-
judicate in civil actions arising out of dis-
putes involving collective agreements be-
tween trade unions and employers, individual
employment and apprenticeship contracts.

The International Military Tribunal at
Nuremberg is microfilming the 39 volumes
of records of Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosen-
berg, a major Nazi art looting organization.
MG has received a reel covering the first
12 columes, which will be used to identify
works of art in collecting points.

--- Page 24 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIALS INSTRUCTIONS

In addition to the weekly list of the latest
“Official Instructions” containing the sub-
ject, designation number, date .and originat-
ing headquarters, pertinent excerpts from
unclassified documents will be reprinted for
the benefit of the readers.

Official copies of the circulars, letters,
directives and instructions may be obtained
by authorized personnel by writing to the
originating headquarters. The “Weekly In-
formation Bulletin” cannot furnish these
copies.

,

Mail Addresses

Mailing and information addresses have
been announced in recent OMGUS and
USFET directives. These include:

Requests for locator information concern-
ing US military personnel will be directed
to Commanding General, US Forces, Euro-
pean Theater, APO 757, US Army (Atten-
tion: Locator Section, AG Machine Records
Branch. (AG 350.05 AGO, USFET, Locator
Information, 25 August 1946).

Mail for the Central Registry of War Crim-
inals and Security Suspects should be ad-
dressed to CROWCASS, Berlin Document
Center, APO 742, US Army. (AG 322 AGA-
AGO, USFET, Location of CROWCASS,
13°September 1946).

Many injuries to US and Allied civilian
employees are not being reported to the Bu-
reau of Federal Employees’ Compensation as
required. The necessary compensation forms
and reports should be submitted to the fol-
lowing offices:

Personnel employed in the US Zone of
Occupation, Germany: Federal Security
Agency, Bureau of Federal Employees’ Com-
pensation, c/o Headquarters Command,
USFET, APO 757, US Army.

Personnel employed in theater elsewhere
then in the US Zone of Occupation, Ger-
many: Federal Security Agency, Bureau of
Federal Employees’ Compensation, US For-
ces, European Theater (Rear), APO 887, US

21

Army. (AG 729 PMG-AGO, USFET, Safe-
ty Bulletin, 5 September 1946.)

The US Element, Allied Liaison & Proto-
col Section, Room 140, ACA Building, Tele-
phone 3316 and 3557, is the official point of
contact between Allied Military Missions and
all echelons of Military Government. (AG
091.112 (SG), OMGUS, Allied Military Mis-
sions, 24 August 1946).

Status of Soviet DP’s

The status of Soviet citizens as United
Nations displaced persons frequently arises,
particularly with regard to the repatriation
thereof. MG officials concerned with this
question may obtain pertinent information
from the nearest tactical command concerned
with such persons through reference to letter,
“Repatriation of Soviet Citizens Subject to
Repatriation Under the Yalta Agreemment,”
USFET, AG 383.7 GEC-AGED, 4 Jan 46,
republished as Inclosure 1 to letter, “Trans-
fer of Recovered Allied Military Personnel
to Ex-Recovered Allied Military Personnel
Status,” USFET, AG 383,7 GEC-AGO,
9 July 46. In this connection, Ukrainians are
not a distinct nationality and the nationality
of individuals can be determined only by in-
vestigation in each case.

Debiting Blocked Accounts

General License No. 7, issued pursuant to
MG Law No. 52 (Blocking and Control of
Property), permits any financial institution
to debit blocked accounts, except for normal
service charges, provided that the amount to
be debited to any one account does not exceed
RM 25 per calendar month. (AG 100 (FD),
Debiting of Blocked Accounts for Bank Ser-
vice Charges, 26 September 1946, OMGUS).

The issuance of this license in aother step
in turning over to German control the admin-
istration of blocking and licensing control
under MG Law No. 52, placing upon the
Germans the responsibility for proper use
and application of its provisions.

--- Page 25 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

bo
¢
Vy

EDITORIALS IN LICENSE

JUSTICE IN NUREMBERG VERDICTS

re keen interest of the German public in

the outcome of the Nuremberg trials was
evidenced in the avidness with which the
German people bought the extras published
by the licensed press in the US Zone. Within
two to four hours after the announcement of
the sentences by the International Military
Tribunal, nearly all US Zone newspapers
had issued extras — the first permitted
during occupation by Military Government.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) had
421,000 copies of its extra on the streets
within two hours after the announcement of
the IMT sentences. The Frankfurter Neue
Presse had sold out its full edition of
125,000 by 1800 hours. The Stutigarter
Zeitung was sold out within an hour. The
Wiesbadener Kurier was on the streets with
20,000 copies by 1700 hours. The Fraen-
kische Nachrichten (Tauberbischofsheim)
was being read half an hour after the radio
broadcast was concluded. The Darmstaedter
Echo serviced its subscribers with 70,000,
the Marburger Presse sold out its 32,000
copies by 1730 hours.

Handling of this unprecedented mass-extra
edition is further proof of the maturity and
journalistic competence of the US Zone
newspapers, according to an analysis by the
Office of Information Control, OMGUS. All
papers carried full texts of the specifications,
charges and sentences with background
stories. There was relatively little editorial
comment in the first editions, but this in-
creased later in the week, especially in ref-
erence to the acquittal. of three individual
defendants.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung felt the verdict
satisfied the sense of justice of the world and
of the more democratic Germany. Its edi-

torial concluded: “What is important is that
the sense of justice of the world has con-
demned tyranny and terror with the verdict
against the chief of the guilty. The verdict
proclaims again the immortal human right
and the inviolability of international law
which must remain the basic and ‘sacred’
laws if we — all of us — are not to sur-
render our civilization and cultural achieve-
ments to the law of the jungle and bar-
barism. . . .

“Not the Allies, not the victors — but the
conscience of the world which rendered the
verdict at Nuremberg has determined that
there can and must be no attempt to escape
responsibility. The men who were condemned
in Nuremberg took pride for years in acting
‘in the name of the German people.’ In a
mad and criminal illusion, as characterless
followers, they heaped upon themselves mil-
lions of crimes for which they were accused,
brought to account with judgment passed
upon them, and the world’s sense of justice
has been satisfied. But justice has also been
spoken ‘in the name of Germany.’ ”

The Nuernberger Nachrichten declared
ihe verdict on the 22 defendants paled beside
the fate of Germany, brought on the German
people as a whole through their “weakness,
good faith and uncritical attitude.” Its
editorial continued: “In this trial the Third
Reich and its leading representatives stood
before the judgment of the world. For this
reason the verdict not only affects persons
but is also a shameful chapter of German
history.”

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) said, “We
find the judgment just — it could not have
beén much different if German anti-fascists
had been sitting on the court.” The paper

--- Page 26 ---
felt that “wide circles” will side with the
Soviet protests against the three acquittals,
but pointed out that they have been acquitted
on criminal, not political, charges and cannot
be regarded. as “entbraeunt” (denazified).

The Isar Post (Landshut) said although
Papen, Schacht and Fritzsche had been freed
by the Tribunal they would be outlawed by
the German people. “Who could say that
they have not richly deserved this fate,” said
the paper. “They were acquitted in Nurem-
berg but if the wishes of the overwhelming
majority are fulfilled, they will soon get
their deserved punishment.”

The Oberbayerisches Volksblatt (Rosen-
heim) said “This verdict demonstrates better
than anything else that the Nuremberg trial
was not designed to serve as a spectacle
either for the world or for the German
people.... The rumor-mongers, who knew
positively that the verdict had been fixed in
advance and would result in death for all
defendants, have lapsed into sudden silence.
... Three, Schacht, Papen and Fritzsche,
were acquitted by the International Military
Tribunal. Yes, they found judges who strictly
and exclusively confined themselves to the
four charges, and spoke only as represen-
tatives of international law. We, however,
have further charges to make and demand
that the German authorities take them
(Schacht, Papen, Fritzsche) into protective
custody. until they can be brought before
the German people for a reckoning.”

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Regensburg)
said, “Interest in the verdict showed that
popular interest in the trial had been much
greater than assumed. The death sentences
were accepted without emotion as self,
evident. But the acquittals and other sen-
tences aroused great attention.... The de-
nazification board will be hearing references
to the Nuremberg acquittals often enough in
the future.”

In a subsequent editorial referring to the
denazification courts, the Sueddeutsche
Zeitung said, “People would not understand
why thousands upon thousands who were
victims of the Fritzsche propaganda jand

toplofty von Papen’s example, should be
heavily punished as ‘chief guilty’ activists,
while these men go free to take walks and to
watch those whom they themselves misled
behind barbed wire entanglements. The
moral repute of the denazification law and
the authority backing it up require that this
be prevented.” Declaring the Nuremberg
judges must have considered this and left
further action up to the Germans, the paper
said, “Precisely the uninfluenced objectivity
displayed at the Nuremberg trial demands
that we follow this example and render
justice to the last little follower by demand-
ing proportionate retribution from the chief
guilty. Otherwise the Nuremberg trial loses
it moral effect.”

Churchill's Zurich Speech

Winston Churchill’s proposal for a
“United States of Europe” received prom-
inent editorial comment in licensed news-
papers of the US Zone according to the
weekly analysis by the Office of Information
Control, OMGUS. It also received critical
attention in the German press in Berlin.

“Churchill’s speech will have enthused
many a German reader,” said an editorial in
the Stuttgarter Zeitung. Unfortunately it
was delivered one world war too late.
Twenty years ago, when Stresemann suc-
cessfully wooed France and Count Couden-
hove-Kalergi fought for a united Europe, it
would have been timely. But at that time;
Churchill was not for Pan-Europe. And
what he now wants is no Pan-Europe, but a
Rump-Europe,. a Nemi-Europe, what .one
characterizes as a ‘West Bloc.’ If there is a
single chance that a unified healthy Germany.
can come out of the current crisis, then it lies
in an understanding between America and
Russia.”

The British-licensed Telegraf in Berlin
pointed out that although Churchill’s plan
was not new, it had sensational effects  be-
cause it was published at a moment when
relations between the western democracies
and the Soviet Union were the subject of
much discussion

--- Page 27 ---
IMPORTANCE OF NUREMBERG TRIALS

he Nuremberg Tribunal verdicts were

regarded by the United States press and
radio as of historical importance chiefly be-
cause of the finding that aggressive war is
“the supreme crime.”

Editorials stated that the establishment of
the fact that such warfare is an international
crime against humanity, laying the corner-
stone for a new edifice of world law —
leading to it — may be a great step in
making the world a better place in which to
live. And that fact coupled with the court’s
decision that those who engineer aggressive
war shall pay the full penalty, generally is
considered by commentators as more impor-
tant for posterity than the individual ver-
dicts against Hitler’s “adjutants of murder.”

The Louisville Courier Journal said that
the judges of this Tribunal — British, Amer-
ican, French and Russian — have added to
mankind’s living laws and in so doing have
affirmed the basic principle of peace.

Radio Commentator Gordon Fraser said:
“The outstanding thing about the trials for
future history is that this Tribunal that has
passed judgment upon these men and their
deeds is not a sovereign body. It supersedes
sovereignty, it is above the nationalism of
any nation, it is a joint judgment by Allied
countries that the supreme crime is insti-
gation of aggressive war against mankind.”

The Philadelphia Inquirer: “In estab-
lishing the historic principle . . . Nurem-
berg Tribunal has performed an immense
service to humanity.

The Washington Post, which recalled it
never held to the opinion advanced by some
that crimes for which the defendants were
charged were not crimes in international law
when these proceedings were taken, declared:

24

“The law of nations is the right conduct and
moral ideas of civilization and Nazi Germany
violated it in a manner that horrified all
peoples ... It would have been strange
indeed, if in international law a State could
be guilty of committing the gravest of crimes
— viz, of instilling a war in mankind and
of practicing genocide or the extermination
of nations and races — while its represen-
tatives through whom it came about, were
held to be innocent.

Recognition that aggressive war is a crime
per se, said the Richmond, Times-Dispatch
should be a serious deterrent hereafter to any
nation which plans such a war. Recognition
of this principle by all the major powers
is highly significant, and marks one of the
longest advances yet made in the direction of
world peace. So will the rubbing out by
hangman of such international pirates and
blood-soaked savages as Goering and Kalten-
brunner, Rosenberg and Frank, Sauckel and
Keitel. The noose about their necks will be
a warning to all other tortures and murder-
ers who may be tempted in future to launch
another war for subjugation of the world.”

Chicago Sun: “The common law of man-
kind has been immeasurably boadened . . .
Defense of the humblest human being against
the ‘masters, leaders and rulers’ — the swag-
gerers who have never hesitated to kill mil-
lions while claiming personal immunity —
are strengthened. The concept reaches its
full dignity when the words of (U. S. Prose-
cutor) Justice Jackson’s opening statement
last November are remembered: that while
that new law is first applied to German ag-
gressors, it ‘includes all those which at Nu-
remberg sat in judgment.’ ”

Detroit News: “Surely it will be a long

--- Page 28 ---
step forward if events at Nuremberg con-
tribute at all to the abandonment of war as an
instrument of international policy, if they
promote in any way the ideal of world peace,
whether by instilling fear of the consequen-
ces in the would-be aggressor or by com-
mending to the notice of posterity those prin-
ciples of morality which the Nuremberg
Court restated in justifying the basis for its
authority to act.”

Philadelphia Record: “Above the fate of
the twenty-two defendants still stands out
mankind’s great moral victory — waging
aggressive war is now legally a crime. We
have tried men for it. We have found some
guilty. We have condemned them to death..
Future aggressors will remember not glory
but the hangman’s noose.”

The real point of Nuremberg, said the
Record editorial, “is that the Nazis will be
punished not for losing'a war, but for start-
ing one. ‘We have made into effective law
the moral feelings of mankind ... The
world should be a better place to live in be-
cause of the trial.”

Cincinnati Enquirer said: “Viewing the
Tribunal’s rulings from a moral rather than
a strictly legalistic viewpoint, we think it
was a notable weakness of the verdict to ex-
clude the (German) General Staff and High
Command from the conviction for conspira-
cy ... The defense plea of superior orders
has. much better weight in a military organ-
ization than otherwise, but the Nuremberg
Council might well have taken judicial cog-
nizance of the fact that the German General
Staff has been engaged in a continuing con-
spiracy to wage aggressive warfare since
Bismarck’s time ... It is an historic ac-
complishment, however, to hold the politico-
military heads of Nazism accountable for the
crime of waging aggressive warfare. If law
and morality are to become and remain su-
preme in the world, this must be the pattern
for the outlawing of war.”

New York Herald-Tribune: “The new prec-
edent which has been established is a prec-
edent of a fair and just assessment of war
guilt’ — a problem that has confronted every

25

age of passionate man but for which the
Tribunal has for the first time returned a
rational and a civilized solution. . . . Judg-
ment pronounced at Nuremberg will stand
as a small but significant advance toward
a better, more just international society.”

Commentator Elmer Davis: “The trials
have laid down various novel principles of
jurisprudence, one of them being the prose-
cution of organizations as well as individuals
as criminals... Certainly the SS and the
Gestapo are organizations as criminal as
were ever known in the world’s history.”

In comment as to the individual verdicts,
and sentences imposed on the defendants, a
considerable segment of opinion voiced
regret that three of the twenty-two were
acquitted of guilt.

Davis observed that “A good many people
in all countries may agree with the Russian
Judge (Nikitchenke) that all of the defen-
dants should have been found guilty.”

Some of the reaction on this score included:

Baltimore Sun: “There will be some dis-
position to wonder at the acquittal of Von
Papen and Schacht, two of the slipperiest
of those who had anything to do with Hitler’s

Government. There may be some disposition

to question the condemnation of Keitel and
Jodl, who, as soldiers, were required to obey.
But that Goering, Ribbentrop, Rosenberg,
Streicher and the others were guilty of many
infamous crimes there can be no question.”

Philadelphia Record: ““We are sorry the
hangman’s noose won’t be slipped over the
head of Banker Schacht... We're sorry
too to see diplomat von Papen escape.”

The New York Times: “The Tribunal
meted, out just what it was supposed to
mete out — stern and exact justice, but
justice, not vengeance. It has punished
crime: it has refused to engage in an exterm-
ination campaign. And in doing so it has
also guarded against the misuse of its judg-
ment by some future victor that might be
tempted to exterminate the vanquished for
their opposition alone.”

--- Page 29 ---
OUR FOREIGN POLICY (Continued from page 10): ‘

“The essence of our democracy is our be-
lief in life and growth and in the right of
the people to shape and mould their own
destiny . . . though the status quo is not
sacred and unchangeable, we cannot overlook
a unilateral gnawing away at the status quo.
The charter forbids aggression and we can-
not allow aggression to be accomplished by
coercion or pressure or by subterfuges such
as politica] infiltration.”

In a speech in New York last March, Mr.
Byrnes said:

“We do not propose to seek security in an
alliance with the Soviet Union against Great
Britain or in an alliance with Great Britain
against the Soviet Union. We propose the
stand with the United Nations in our efforts
to secure equal justice for all nations and
special privilege for no nation.”

Mr. Byrnes in a statement to the plenary
session of the Paris Conference on 15 August
said: “The United States believes in the sov-
ereign equality of nations, we are opposed
to making the small nations satellites of the
larger states."

“The United States has sought no’ terri-
torial or other exclusive advantages for itself
from the war. But is does attach the greatest
importance to establishment of conditions of
stable peace and of prosperity throughout
the world. It cannot remain indifferent to
arrangements under the treaties or outside
them which tend to restrict and divert trade
or distort international economic relations to
the prejudice of the great majority of United
Nations and of world peace and prosperity.

STUTTGART ADDRESS

In his speech at Stuttgart, Germany, on
6 September, the Secretary said:

“We have learned, whether we like it or
not, that we live in one world from which
we cannot isolate ourselves. We have learn-
ed: that peace and well-being are indivisible
and that our peace and well-being cannot be
purchased at the price of the peace or the
well-being of any other country ....

“We intend to continue our interest in

affairs of Europe and of the world. We
have helped to organize the United Nations.
We believe it will stop aggressor nations
from starting wars. Because we believe it,
we intend to support the United Nations or-
ganization with all power aoe resources we
possess.”

Concerning international control of atomic
energy, President Truman stated in his mes-
sage to Congress last January:

“I believe it possible that effective means
can be developed through the United Nations
organization to prohibit, outlaw and prevent
the use of atomic energy for destructive
purposes.”

The UN Atomic Energy Commission ‘was
authorized last 24 January at the London
General Assembly meeting. The twelve-
nation commission convened in New York
last June and heard the US .proposals for
atomic energy control presented by Bernard
M. Baruch, US representative.

ACHESON-LILIENTHAL REPORT

Baruch’s proposals were based largely on
the so-called Acheson-Lilienthal report,
issued last March and described then by
Secretary Byrnes as “a paper of unusual im-
portance and a suitable starting point for the
informed public discussions which is one of
the essential factors in developing sound
policy.”

In substance, the US plan, as outlined by
Baruch, calls for creation of an international
atomic development authority, which would
be entrusted with all phases of the develop-
ment and use of atomic energy. Heavy pen-
alties would be fixed for. violations of the
international control agreement and in the
plan’s operation no nation could have the
right of veto.

Baruch made plain to ) the Atomic Energy
Commission that- the United States stands
ready to end all atomic bomb making, de-
stroy existing bombs, and gradually provide
“full information” .on . producing. atomic
energy — if an adequate international system
of atomic energy control can be set up. .

--- Page 30 ---
INFORMATION SERVICES. (Continued trom page 8)

tion Control.

5. Permissible Source Material. Licensees
are permitted to use the services of foreign
news and publishing agencies and other busi-
ness enterprises licensed to do business in
the US Zone of Germany in accordance with
the terms of their contracts with such agen-
cies and enterprises. Subject to the provisions
of German copyright law, licensees may
quote or paraphrase from newspapers and
periodicals licensed or otherwise authorized
for sale or distribution within the US Zone
of Germany. Foreign radio broadcasts may
likewise be quoted; in such cases the broad-
cast in question must be accurately trans-
cribed and the transcription must be avail-
able for reference check.

6. Responsibility in the Use of Source
Material. Licensees will be held responsible
for observance of all provisions of this in-
struction in the use of material in a news
file or publication licensed or otherwise au-
thorized to do business in the US Zone of

Germany in no way constitutes relief from
this responsibility. The source of all news
except local reporting will be clearly identi-
fied.. Where several sources are used, the
source of each portion of the article must be
clearly indicated. Editorials and commen-
taries must bear the name or initials of the
author. News stories whose main appeal is
sensational must be played in balance and
not over-played at the expense of important
but less sensational news.

7. Violations of Instructions. For viola-
tions of thése instructions a licensee is sub-
ject to temporary limitation or suspension of
his operations, or to revocation of his license.
This action in no way prejudices‘ the right of
Military Government to take such other ac-
tion and to administer such further penalties,
including fine or imprisonment, as the offense
may warrant.

8. This instruction supersedes all previous
policy instructions which have been issued
to licensees.

—.

DEMOBILIZATION (Continued from page 6)

preserved to provide necessary medical
service to prisoners of war.

Any individual requiring hospitalization
in excess of 30 days is discharged, provided
he is not held as a war criminal or security
suspect. The hospitals are released for civil-
ian use as the need for them ceases.

A total of 71,798 individuals of various
Nazi and para-military organizations, other
than SS, were held in internment camps in
the US Zone pending disposition of the status
under decisions as to their culpability under
war crimes provisions. These internees who
are not prisoners of war are held in centers
surrounded by barbed wire and under armed
guard.

Ex-enemy nationals employed with the US
Forces are engaged as civilian employees for
work such as that of servants, clerical help,
mechanics, chauffeurs and cooks, and they
have no military status. This personnel is
employed from civilian labor obtained
through the German labor offices, and

although there may be some former German
armed forces personnel so employed, they are
utilized in an entirely non-military capacity.

Control Council directives require the com-
plete dissolution of all para-military organ-
izations, the most important of which are
the home guard, Waffen SS, Hitler: Youth,
Storm Troopers,:.Nazi Transportation Corps,
Luftwaffen Cadet Corps and Labor Corps
for Youth. ‘This.dissolution; which was com-
pleted in the US Zone by last 1 January,
ineluded the disposal of personnel;- funds,
records, property and equipment,- and the
accounting for officers. of these organizations
in both national and local headquarters, as
well as for other members in arrest categories.

Personnel of these organizations are cur-
rently being disposed of under the provisions
of the German “Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism” pro-
mulgated 5 March 1946.

Next week — Part 2: Disarmament.

--- Page 31 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Continued from page 2)

Frontier Crossing — British Zone. «60-0 ee ee

Interzonal Transit’ Rates and Charges Through Germany for ir
Train Traffle - . 5 5 ooG :

Transfer and Detail of Personnel Assigned to Certain Transportation
Corps Units which were formerly Quartermaster Corps

Prohibited and Permitted Transactions in the European Theater
Debiting of Blocked Accounts for Bank Service Charges.

Reduction in Personnel, Renewal of Contracts of Employment and
Civilianization

Change to Winter Time in Germany .

Payment of Employees of Unit Publications. . . - - + + + +
Accounting for Supplies and Services Furnished the US Navy and other
US Governmental Departments and Agencies. . . . . + + 7+ +
Serving of Motor Vehicles for Winter Operations

Activation of Community Exchanges in the Occupied Zone. .
Modification of Wage Policy .

Policy Instructions Number 3 to All Licensees in German Information
Services . 5 o0o00 00-0

War Department Circular No. 173.

Statement of Secretary of State Byrnes — 6 September 1946.
Amendment No. 2 to MG Law No. 2 — Limitations on Jurisdiction of
German Courts — Change 16 to Title 23, MG Requlations .
Modification of Wage Policy .

Supplement No. 2 to General Order No. 1

Travel to US of German Girls for Purpose of Marrying Ex-Service
and. Servicemen. 50000070 6

~ Securify of Internees Held in Civilian Internment Enclosures

Personnel for Bizonal German Agencies .

AG 092 GAP-AGO
25 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 551 (TD)
25 Sept 194, USFET

AG 210.3 x 322. GAP-AGP
25 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 140
26 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 100 (FD)
26. Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 200.3 (PO)
26 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 00.3 GEC-AGO
27 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 248 INE-AGO
27 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 142
27 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 141
27 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 144
30 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 240 (CO)
30 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 000.7 (IC)
30 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 400.34 GCT-AGO
1 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 350,00 GCT-AGO
1 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 010 (LD)
2 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 240 (CO)
3 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 300.4 (FD)
3 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.391 (AG)
3 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 383.7 (IA)
4 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 200.3 (CA)
10 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obfained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

28