--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 66 / 4 NOVEMBER 1946

OMGUS BY AIR. -. «

INFORMATION BULLETIN

+ el

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-~
OPE MARBURG

LAUTERBACH,
OBER &
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG

QBERTAUNUS| -
HANAU
WIESBADEN, ae at
OFFENBACH

ROTEN BURG

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH
AUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM.
EIDELBER, MOSBACH
BRUCHSAC
HEILBRONN

.
Yond BACKNANG
LEONBER' aes
BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

ih

BULLET!

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Nofification of Death™and Disposal of Records and Personal Effects
Pertaining to Deceased Civilian Internees in Camps under US Army
Control .

Feeding of Indigenous Employees of US Army Revenue Producing
Agencies . 2 1 1 6 ee ee ee et es
Redesignation of Bulk Allotment Installations and Units (non T/O) .
Supply Procedure and Scale of Allowances of Household Furnishings
for Dependents, Bachelor Officers and Civilians, American and Allied
Arrest and Detention — Germany

Carrying of Arms .

Emergency Return of Dependents . . . .

Denazification Trials of Bona Fide Stateless Persons, Nationals of the
United Nations, Neutral Nations and Ex-Enemy Nations .

Security of Internees Held in Civilian Internment Enclosures.
Limitation of Characteristics ot Ships other than Fishing and Pleasure
Craft left to the Peace Economy of Germany. . . . . 2... =
Backlog of Dependents . . . . . 1.2...
Czechoslovakian Tour .

Safely Bulletin

Reporting of Crimes, Offenses and Serious Incidents .

Appointment of Community Transportation Officers .

Gift Parcels for Prisoners of War .

Polish Repatriation Program . . . . . ss

Transportation of Dependents by Commercial Means

Theater Athletic Staff School .

Tours and Services of fhe American Express Company, Inc .

Observance of Curfew Laws in the British Zone .

AG 293 GEC-AGO
2 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 430.2 GDS-AGO
4 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 322 GCT-AGO
8 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 414 RMJ-AGO
9 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 383.7 GBI-AGO
9 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 474 PMG-AGO
9 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGO
11 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 383.7 (IA)
11 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 383.7 (SG)
11 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 560 (NA)
11 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 230 GAP-AGO
11 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 220.711 SSP-AGO
11 Oct 1946, USEET

AG 729 PMG-AGO
11 Oct 1946

Circular No 152
11 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 310.6 GDS-AGO
11 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 383.6 PMJ-AGO
11 Oct 1946, UFSET

AG 014.33 GEC-AGO
11 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGO
11 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 352 GAP-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 531 SSP-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 200 GAP-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Armstrong

OMGUS BY AIR — The picture on this week's
cover is an air view of a portion of the area
occupied by the Office of Military Government
tor Germany (US) in Zehlendort, one of Berlin's
residential suburbs. For other pictures of
buildings in the OMGUS area see “Head-
quarters of US Military Government” onpage15.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Price Control was preparad by the Price
Control Section, Trade and Commerce Branch
Economics Division, OMGUS. It gives a picture,
of the accomplishments of Military Government
and German civilian authorities in their battle
against inflation.

As of 1 November_1946 US Forces, Berlin
District, the surviving organization of US occu-
pation in the city of Berlin, was merged with
Headquarters Command, OMGUS. The story
of the new organizational set-up in Berlin is
found in Berlin Command, OMGUS which
appears on page 11.

Die Neue Zeitung is the story of the official
German language newspaper published by US
Military Government. The article was written
by the Office of the Director of Information
Control, OMGUS.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Shipment Begun on Largest Export Order
Price Control
Die Neue Zeitung

Berlin Command, OMGUS
Headquarters of US Military Government

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
STATION LIST

PAGE

15
19
23
25
28

--- Page 7 ---
Hos million dollars is a lot of money;
650,000 cubic meters of sawn lumber is
a lot of wood; and 21 thousand railroad
cars represent an impressive rail movement.
Yet, these are the figures involved in the
shipment of the largest export consignment
to be contracted for in the US Zone since the
the occupation of Germany.

The Economics Division, OMGUS, con-
ceived and administered this consignment,
the first delivery of which took place on
21 October at Karlsruhe and will be com-
pleted by 31 July 1947.

Eighty percent of the shipment, consisting
exclusively of spruce and fir and comparing

The Scholdorf lumber mill in
Wuerttemberg-Baden, one
of 5000 mills inthe US Zone
participating in the export
program. Photo by Byers

favorably in grade with Swedish lumber,
will go to Great Britain and the remaining
20 percent to the Netherlands. Sizes and
specifications are being cut in accordance
with German standards.

The lumber will be used in the housing
programs of Great Britain and the Nether-
lands which are in urgent need of building
material, especially lumber. It is estimated
that the entire consignment is sufficient to
build more than 40,000 small homes. The
British contracted to pay an average price
of about 52 dollars per thousand board feet,
FOB Rhine barge.

The operating procedure for delivery of
the lumber has gone through the complete
cycle from the felling of the tree to the load-
ing of the sawn wood onto the barges. To
effect this export program, a great many
obstacles had to be overcome and many
projects put into motion. It was first neces-
sary to establish an organization of German
foresters. lumber wholesalers, retailers and

--- Page 8 ---
A concentration yard in Heilbronn where a portion
of the lumber is being stored awaiting shipment.

exporters to undertake the work. In spite
of all the difficulties encountered in the
fields of labor, the procurement of forestry
equipment and transportation, the proces-
sing of lumber was begun two months after
the contract had been signed in April 1946.

Five thousand sawmills throughout the
US Zone are participating in the program.
Lumber wholesale concentration yards to
collect the wood from the mills have been
installed, and five port installations with
fourteen loading points were established at
Mannheim, Karlsruhe, Aschaffenburg, Heil-
bronn and Mainz. After setting these up, it
was necessary to coordinate and determine
priorities for a detailed system of rail move-
ments throughout the Zone.

FIRST BARGE LOADED IN OCTOBER

The first barge, the “Gounod,” was loaded
at Karlsruhe on 14 October, six weeks after
the date of the first commitment. The “Gou-
nod” with a capacity of 1,300 tons was load-
ed only to 800 tons because of navigation
conditions. This, however, is not expected
to develop into a bottleneck since the Dutch
barges being used are available in sufficient

Photo. by Byers

numbers. The barges will make the trip
down the Rhine waterways in eight to ten
days. At Rotterdam, the lumber will be
loaded aboard ocean vessels for delivery in
Great Britain.

REDUCTION OF LUMBER RESERVE

All three Laender of the US Zone will
supply the necessary raw lumber. Bavaria
is responsible for 75 percent of the timber,
Greater Hesse for 14 percent, and Wuert-
temberg-Baden, 11 percent. This consign-
ment equals about five percent of the total
production of domestic timber other than
firewood in all Germany in 1936, or about
20 percent of the Bavarian non-firewood tim-
ber production in the same year. Consequent-
ly, it represents a significant reduction of
South German lumber reserves, which can
be replaced only by a long-term forestry
plan. The export of this lumber will tend
to reduce German war potential, for prior
to and during the war, the Reich imported
rather than exported large quantities of this
product.

MG lumber and timber offices have ex-
pressed confidence that the huge shipment

--- Page 9 ---
will be completed on 31 July 1947 as plan-
ned, despite transport and coordination dif-
ficulties. The first target date in the present
shipping schedule calls for delivery of
100,000 cubic meters to the British and
Dutch lumber importers by 15 November.

The deciding factor in undertaking this
export program was the establishment of an
import-export program and the gradual
building up of dollar credits in Germany.
The payments for the wood will be made
in free US dollars, which in turn will be
used largely to cover imports of food from
America. This will mark the first time that
Germany has been able to make substantial
payment on imported foodstuffs already re-
ceived from the United States.

SOURCE OF DOLLAR INCOME

Another source of dollar income for Ger-
many will soon be in operation. A system
has been established whereby freight charges
for transient hauls across Germany will be
collected in dollars. The method to be fol-
lowed is similar to that agreed on at the
European Freight Conference held in Basle,
Switzerland, earlier in the year. Freight
charges will be collected by each occupying
power from the countries to which their zone
is the zone of exit. OMGUS will thus col-
lect payments from Austria and Czechoslo-
vakia for goods sent across Germany to those
countries. After payment is received, the
collecting power — whether US, British,
French or Soviet — will compute the charg-
es for services used in each zone and dis-
tribute the dollar proceeds accordingly.

As stocks of existing goods in the US Zone
fall progressively lower, export-import of-
ficials have placed increased emphasis on
programming of industrial production —
‘channelling scarce materials and components
into products for which firm commitments
‘have been made. Included -in this’ group
are ‘medical, electrochemical and precision
instrument items, all of which are critically
needed in most European countries. In sev-
eral cases, such as photographic equipment,

automotive parts and soda ash, current or-
ders exceed supply and only a relatively
small amount of scarce materials must be
imported to expand production.

EXPORT PRODUCTION PLAN

Another step was taken last. month for
expanding production of export goods in the
Zone after discussions between officials of
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, the
Deputy Military Governor, and other mem-
bers of OMGUS, and representatives of the
State, Treasury and Commerce Departments.
Agreement was reached on a plan which will
allow OMGUS to use the facilities and serv-
ices. of the United States Commercial Com-
pany, an RFC subsidiary, for the procure-
ment of needed raw materials. Temporary
advances will be made to OMGUS against
inventories of these raw materials. The pro-
ceeds of the sale of the resulting products
will be used to liquidate these advances and
all charges arising from the furnishing of
the materials and the ensuing disposal of the
finished products. These arrangements are
similar to those which have been in effect for
some time on supplies of cotton for proces-
sing in Germany.

OMGUS and the USCC, with the help of
officials of the Land Governments, will work
out approved export programs in a limited
number of industries most likely to produce
exports of high value at comparatively low
raw material cost.

INTERIM. AGREEMENT
- Every effort will be made to effect the
necessary procurement of raw materials and
the subsequent export. of finished. -goods
through private channels: Where such facil-
ities are not available or their use would
prove too costly or result in undue delay,

‘procurement or disposal on a governmental

basis will be undertaken. ‘The agreement is
for an interim period and discussions will be
continued with a view toward effecting such
modifications as may be required by the

joint handling of exports and imports
through the merger of the US-and British

Zone.

--- Page 10 ---
Pr Control in Germany illustrates how
German operations in an important eco-
nomic area have been adopted to Military
Government policies, and demonstrates how
MG and German efforts further the democ-
ratizing of Germany on the basis of a sound
economy.

The price situation today appears more
satisfactory than underlying economic and
political facts would seem to warrant. There
are shortages of food, clothing, housing and
essential services for consumers. Fuel, raw
materials and equipment for all productive
activities are scarce. This is the meaning of
total defeat in a modern industrial economy.
The Allied occupation aims must be achieved
within the framework of German defeat and
economic disorganization. In view of these
shortages, only a controlled distribution can
prevent a complete breakdown of organized
life and economic activity. Controlled distri-
bution of scarce supplies requires control of
prices. At the same time, successful control
of prices requires effective rationing meas-
ures for distributing the scarce supply. If
the pressure becomes too great on either, the
price system or the rationing system, both

will break down.

Inflation contributed to the chaos of Ger-
many after her defeat in World War I.
The social, economic and political disintegra-
tion accompanying the skyrocketing of the
mark seriously weakened the Weimar Re-
public, providing a cause for the emergence
of a new totalitarian doctrine. The nations
that defeated Germany in World War II
hope to prevent a repetition of inflation
which would interfere with the prescribed
occupational aim “to prepare for the even-
tual reconstruction of German political life
on a democratic basis and for eventual
peaceful cooperation in international life by
Germany.”

COMMON PRICE CONTROL POLICY

The framers of the Potsdam Agreement
specified that the four occupying powers
shall establish common policies for “wages,
prices and rationing.” The Potsdam Decla-
ration provided for a dualism in price con-
trol; stipulating on the one hand that Allied
economic controls “shall be imposed upon
the German economy;” but that these con-
trols should be imposed “only to the extent

--- Page 11 ---
necessary” to. meet basic Allied objectives.
The basis for the system was laid in the
further provision of the Potsdam Declaration
that: “German administrative machinery
shall be created and the German authorities
shall be required to the fullest extent practi-
cable to proclaim and assume administration
of such controls. Thus it should be brought
home to the German people that the respon-
sibility for the administration of such con-
trols and any breakdown in these controls
will rest with themselves.”

Early in the occupation, each of the four

powers decided to maintain the German
system of price control, purged of its dis-
criminatory or other Nazi features.
’ These decisions furnished American MG
price officials with three interrelated objec-
tives: (1) to set into operation responsible,
efficient and denazified German price control
machinery; (2) to achieve, in the US Zone,
a stabilized price level as a cornerstone for a
stable German economy in which democratic
social and political institutions could grow,
and (3) to work at the quadripartite level
toward the goal of treating Germany as a
single economic unit and achieving stabiliza-
tion of prices throughout Germany.

CONTROL MACHINERY RESTORED

MG economic administrators ordered the
reconstitution of the German price and rent
control machinery. During the summer of
1945, the price offices recruited and trained
new personnel to replace the 500 price con-
trol officials removed under the denazification
program. Shortly the German price control
machinery was operating effectively and car-
rying out the MG policy directives.

In the formative stages the reconstituted
German price agencies required close super-
vision until it became apparent that the Ger-
mans were capable of strengthening their ad-
ministrative organization and resuming full

- operational control. MG regulations were
then redrawn so that greater responsibility
for the execution of all economic’ controls
was placed on the Ministers President of the
Laender, rather than on local MG officials or

on specific units of the German government.
Thus the price control system for the US
Zone, containing a population of more than
16 million people, is administrated entirely
by German officials under the policy super-
vision of a small staff of MG officials. ‘Price
control officers are still stationed at each of
the three Land detachments, but they do not
intervene in the operations of the German
agencies they supervise.

OPERATION OF GERMAN SYSTEM

The functioning system of German price
agencies includes a Price Commissioner at the
Laenderrat, three Price Formation Offices,
(Preisbildungsstelle), one in each Land; ten
Price Supervision. Offices (Preisueber-
wachungsstellen), one in each of the ten
governing districts (Regierungsbezirke) and
more than 250 Price Offices (Preisstellen) in
the urban and rural countries (Kreis). These
German authorities issue price-adjustment
orders and carry out all enforcement of Ger-
man price ceilings. ,

OMGUS is the only US occupational unit
authorized to set or change any German
price, to order any German officials.to set.or
change prices or to confer with a German
price agency for a price approval. Although
MG retains ultimate authority over German
prices, it does not intervene in the German
system to set or change the prices of specific
commodities. During the early months of
operation of the reestablished. German price
agencies, their price orders became effective
15 days after submission for review to the
MG offices: in the Laender. However, since
the beginning of November 1945, the price
orders of the German agencies have-gone into
effect when copies were presented to the
MG offices of the Laender.

These German price orders are forwarded
to OMGUS for review. A German price
order is subject to retroactive revocation only
if this review should indicate that basic MG
policies are being violated. This veto power
has been used in only a ‘few instances. At
the present time the function of the review
by OMGUS is primarily to keep in touch

(Continued on page 13)

--- Page 12 ---
A view of the presses in operation at
the Munich plant of “Die Neue Zeitung.”

SANG eit : Se

D: Neue Zeitung (The New Newspaper),
published in Munich as the official Ger-
man-language newspaper of the Office of
Military Government for Germany (US), is
a journalistic experiment whose success has
been clearly indicated by its accomplishments
during the first year of its existence in serv-
ing the best interests of both Military
Government and the people of Germany.

Die Neue Zeitung was born literally in the
ruins of Munich. Its home was the bomb-
wrecked plant of the Voelkischer Beobachter,
once the chief organ of the Nazi Party. Its
machinery and equipment were dislocated,
smashed and covered with rubble. A huge
clean up and repair job, achieved in a
remarkably short time by a small group of
zealous American newspapermen and tech-
nicians, preceded the publication on 18 Oc-
tober 1945 of the first issue of this news-
paper whose principles were laid down by
General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower
when he was still Military Governor.

As an outgrowth of Psychological Warfare

activities of the former US Twelfth Army
Group, Die Neue Zeitung has been a vital
link between Military Government and the
German population in carrying out its para-
mount mission — to coach the Germans to
think and plan and act democratically. This
has been accomplished in a large measure
through a simple formula of presenting a
“balanced diet” of reading material, balanced
in respect to the amount of American news
and views, and of German and world news
and opinion. Simple as this system may ap-
pear, it has of necessity a powerful under-
lying set of principles which include: A high
degree of responsibility, wide experience in
established American journalistic practices
and a broad knowledge of MG policies and
their proper interpretation and application.

The newspaper’s policy extends even
beyond the foregoing prerequisites and
employs a time-worn but time-honored
principle which has been the basis of the
success and reliability of American journal-
ism — objective reporting. Gathering, edit-

--- Page 13 ---
ing and disseminating news factually rec-
ognizably of prime importance in the United
States, has a greater significance in Germany
where the people for 12 years were under a
constant and heavy stream of propaganda.

Objectivity is achieved in presenting
balanced reports of news and pictures of
America, Europe, Germany and the world;
in informative feature articles and in con-
structive editorial criticism.

Die Neue Zeitung gets its message across
to the German people on a widespread scale
through its circulation of 1,500,000. The
paper is distributed rapidly through 54 main
dealers situated, among other cities, in Ber-
lin, Bremen, Kassel, Frankfurt, Nuremberg,
Stuttgart, Karlsruhe, Heidelberg, Mannheim
and Bamberg. It is published twice weekly,
with 14 pages in each edition. Total circula-
tion of Die Neue Zeitung is limited only by
the critical paper shortage and other restrict-
ive factors.

NECESSARY TO RISK UNPOPULARITY

One’ of General Eisenhower’s principles
established for the publication significantly
states: “While popularity with German
readers is desirable, it is not the chief test
whether the Neue Zeitung is carrying out its
mission. As the official. newspaper of the
American government in Germany and as
spokesman for the American point of view
on German and world affairs, it may. be
desirable and necessary at times to risk
unpopularity.”

The paper does not compete economically
with US-licensed German’ newspapers. since
it carries no advertising.. It therefore devotes
its energies to fulfill its primary mission in
the field of Information Control, which is
to assist in the reestablishment of a strong,
free and democratic press in Germany.

In furtherance ‘of this objective, General
Eisenhower last year listed these aims,
among others, for the paper:

“The Neue Zeitung, as an American news-
paper published in the German language,
will set an example for the new German
press through the objectivity of its news
reporting, through unconditional devotion. to

10

truth in its articles and through high journal-
istic standards.

“Through: its emphasis on the affairs of
the world, the Neue Zeitung will widen the
view of the German reader by giving him
facts which were suppressed in Germany
during the twelve years of National So-
cialistic rule. The Neue Zeitung will be a
factor in demonstrating to the German people
the necessity of the tasks which lie ahead of
them.”

ANNIVERSARY MESSAGE

On the occasion of Die Neue Zeitung’s
first anniversary, General Eisenhower, who
was in Munich at the time said: “This news-
paper has fulfilled its mission which was
outlined for it in my message which appeared
in the first issue.” Felicitations also came
from Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Mil-
itary Governor, Brig. Gen. Robert A. Mc-
Clure, Director of Information Control, and
Brig. Gen. W. J. Muller, Director of OMG
for Bavaria.

Die Neue Zeitung is published and edited
under the supervision of the Publishing Opera-
tions Branch, Information Control Division,
OMG for Bavaria. Its editor-in-chief, who also
is chief of the Publishing Operations Branch,
is Major Hans Wallenberg. The paper has
shown steady qualitative gains under his
editorship. One of his most recent improve-
ments has been the institution of a typically
American editorial page. Major Wallenberg
is the former editor of the Allgemeine Zei-
tung, an official American newspaper
published in Berlin until the ‘appearance
there of a US-licensed paper.

US-Swiss Agreement

All raw materials or finished products im-
ported by Switzerland from the US Zone of
Germany are to be paid for in dollars ac-
cording to an agreement reached between US
and Swiss officials. The proceeds from these
sales will be used io pay for imports of ma-
terials necessary. to production in the Zone
and for the import of food and other prod-
ucts essential for the prevention of disease
and unrest.

--- Page 14 ---
he current program of the US occupation

authorities to eliminate duplicating opera-
tions and to conserve personnel, facilities and
expenses, accomplished an important advance
with the consolidation at the beginning of
this month of Headquarters, US Forces,
Berlin District, and Headquarters Command,
OMGUS.

In the reorganization of the US occupation
forces in Berlin, the Office of Military Gov-
ernment, Berlin District, was renamed Office
of Military Government, Berlin Sector, and
placed directly under the Chief of Staff,
OMGUS, in the same status as the Offices of
Military Government of the three Laender of
the US Zone. Formerly OMGBD had been
under the US Forces, Berlin District, which
was responsible to USFET.

Headquarters, US Forces, Berlin District,
was inactivated and the Berlin Command
was established under OMGUS to handle
troop command, security, supply and adminis-
trative support for the US elements in
Berlin. Formerly Headquarters, US Forces,
Berlin District and Headquarters Command,
OMGUS performed similar services for their
respective organizations.

ADVANTAGES OF CONSOLIDATION

Advantages anticipated from the consoli-
dation into Berlin Command, OMGUS, are
consolidation of command, clubs, messes,
recreational facilities, motor pools, repair
shops, personnel administration; elimination
of duplication in Provost Marshal activities;
saving in administrative operations and clari-
fication of command channels. Reduction by
nearly 50 percent in unit personnel by 1 July
1947, by nearly 40 percent in occupied space
and of several million dollars in budgetary
expenses are expected.

Maj. Gen. Frank A. Keating, who has been
commanding general of US Forces, Berlin
District, has been appointed to the positions
of Assistant Deputy Military Governor for
Operations and Deputy Commanding General
of OMGUS. In these positions he succeeded
Maj. Gen. Clarence L. Adcock who returned
recently to the United States for retirement

--- Page 15 ---
CHAIN OF COMMAND, MILITARY GOVERNMENT UNITS

1 NOVEMBER 1946

omen MILITARY GOVT, MATTERS
= ew wee MILITARY MATTERS

after 31 years in military service.

As Assistant Deputy Military Governor for
Operations, General Keating acts for the Dep-
uty Military Governor, and in the absence
of the Deputy Military Governor is directly
responsible for the supervision of all field
operations of Military Government in the US
Zone, in accordance with the policies and
decisions of the Allied Control Authority.

In his capacity as Deputy Commanding
General, OMGUS, he is charged with making
final decisions in matters pertaining to the
Berlin Command, MG personnel matters, and
functions of denazification, civil administra-
tion and public safety.

The Office of Military Government, Berlin
District, remains under the command of Col.
Frank L. Hawley. This organization handles
MG operations and activities in the US Sector
of Berlin the same as the OMG in each Land
does in its area, and represents the United
States on the Allied Kommandatura, which
is the four-power controlling body for
Greater Berlin.

Col. Bryan L. Milburn, former Chief of
Staff, OMGUS, has been appointed Director
of Administrative Services and Headquarters
Commandant of OMGUS Headquarters. He
commands all Ground Force units assigned
and attached to Berlin Command, OMGUS,

12

and is a responsible for those activities dele-
gated to Berlin Command, OMGUS.

Brig. Gen. Charles K. Gailey, Jr., is the
new Chief of Staff, OMGUS. Formerly he
was Director of the Public Relations Office,
OMGUS.

One important result of the consolidation
is the freeing of some buildings which can be
used for other essential purpose. An example
is the release of Warton Barracks in Berlin
for use by the Germans as a hospital for
tuberculosis.

Available for Reparations

In keeping with the program for the
elimination of war potential in Germany,
nine war plants in the US Zone, formerly
engaged in the production of aircraft com-
ponents, are being declared available for
removal or demolition.

Six of the plants are dispersed units of the
large Fieseler Corporation, which in wartime
produced the Fieseler Storch reconnaissance
plane, the Messerschmitt 109 and 210 fight-
ers and the Focke-Wulf 190 fighter. The
others are two Messerschmitt and one Jun-
kers dispersal plant, which produced paris
for the Messerschmitt fighters and the “Ju 88”
bombers.

--- Page 16 ---
PRICE CONTROL (Continued from page 8)

with price developments and with the oper-
ations of the price agencies in the US Zone,
so that MG can be properly informed of im-
portant trends.

In each occupied zone of Germany this
basic pattern of utilizing the existing German
price system of regulations and organizations
has been preserved, subject to varying de-
grees of MG direction. In each zone meas-
ures have been taken to assure the general
maintenance of prices and rents at pre-occu-
pation levels, and to assure that price increas-
es would be made only as: exceptions and
when specifically authorized.

STATEMENT OF PRICE PRINCIPLES

Since each of the occupying powers had
adopted the same general pattern in its zone
and since the same problems were developing
in each of the zones, it became logical to
consider over-all measures for uniform
treatment throughout Germany of the prob-
lems of price administration. So the four
occupying powers agreed 7 February 1946
on an important statement of price principles
for German-wide application.

The four occupation powers have demon-
strated a gratifying degree of unity on price
control questions. A central German price
agency to replace the abolished German Com-
missioner of Price Formation has not been
established, but steps have been taken for
treating Germany as an economic unit with
regard to price control. These steps culmi-
nated in a meeting of 40 German price con-
trol and cost of living officials in Berlin on
29 and 30 August under the auspices of the
Price Control Sub-Committee, Allied Control
Authority. The conferees discussed subjects
of inter-zonal price control, such as partic-
ipation in price control work of civilian ad-
visory groups, procedures for recording legal
prices in interzonal trade, common problems
involved in considering price increases, and
the establishment of uniform methods of com-
puting a cost of living index in the four
zones. Paralleling the quadripartite develop-

ments toward German-wide uniformity of
price control efforts, are operations affecting
zonal and bizonal administration in the price
field.

To achieve Zone-wide uniformity, the Ger-
man chiefs of the Price Formation Offices in
the three Laender began meeting as early as
October 1945. Conversion to the Zonal Sec-
retariat structure at Stuttgart in December,
was a formality. Then, as the Laenderrat
was created, the Price Formation Committee
met regularly each month. In August, to
secure continuity of Zone-wide operations, a
German Price Commissioner was authorized
by the Laenderrat. He has executive powers
to act on all price matters of Zone-wide signif-
icance. An important feature of the Price
Commissioner’s Statute was the Beirat, a
committee of trade union, consumer coopera-
tive and employee representatives, created
to advise on price control questions, and thus
to furnish democratic public representation in
the administration of necessarily restrictive
government controls.

ACTION BY BIZONAL GROUP

‘When the British accepted the US invita-
tion for certain measures of economic uni-
fication in the British and American zones,
a bizonal German Executive Committee for
Economics was established at Minden in the
British Zone. This committee determined
that the first function to be consolidated was
price control. The Price Division is presently
being formed, from the staff of the Price
Commissioner of the US Zone and of the
Price Section of the German Economic Ad-
visory Board in the British Zone. American
and British price control officials are “chap-
eroning” the amalgamation.

The major question of importance is: What
is the result of MG and German efforts in-
sofar as price control is concerned? The in-
credible feature is that the German. legal
price level has‘remained as stable as it has
thus far. The German price agencies have
continued to hold legal prices under control.

--- Page 17 ---
Most transactions are accomplished at legal
prices. The existence of a black market can-
not be denied; illégal transactions, whether
at exorbitant prices or by unauthorized bar-
ter, continue and will never be completely.
suppressed as long as a shortage of goods
exists, German authorities have been stren-
uous and vigilant in their effort to break up
flagrant black markets. An important fact,
however, is that the volume of black market
transactions has not significantly increased,
and, even more important, black market
prices have not risen in the progressive pat-
tern which characterizes inflation. Prices are
in general holding in the face of the pressure

“A Bell for Adano”

The 10,000 residents of the quaint Ba-
varian town of Tirschenreuth, nestled in the
rolling Boehmer Wald mountains, will
always fondly remember American Military
Government for each time its church bells
peal they will recall a living enactment of
the climatic scene of John Hersey’s novel,
“A Bell for Adano.”

Back in 1942 the Nazi war machine or-
dered the main Catholic church to contribute
its six perfectly toned bells — four large
and two small — to “the cause.” A big truck
came, backed up to the massive doors of the
steepled edifice and carted away the trea-
sures which had for more than 600 years
rung out the call for Sunday Mass and had
during the week chimed the hours of the day
and night.

So rich were the bells in their tone that
they could be heard by farmer folk tilling in
the fields, by travelers approaching the town,
by those dwelling in nearby “dorfs.” To all
they were a symbol. Hope for their return
was never lost and prayers were made by
the thousands asking that someday, sometime
their poignant pealing might once again be
heard. ;

When MG Detachment D-277 arrived at
the war’s end, the priest and a volunteer
delegation immediately presented their

of too much money and too few goods.

Though other measures are involved in
inflation control, price control and rationing
are recognized as two central instruments in
combating inflation. The effort will be con-
tinued with a full realization by the German
authorities as well as by MG authorities that
inflation would jeopardize the plan to leave
Germany with a minimum balanced economy
after carrying out disarmament and repa-
rations; inflation would increase Germany’s
dependence upon imported supplies of food
and other essentials; inflation would strike
at the heart of Allied hopes for a democratic
and peaceful Germany.

— Bavarian Version

14.

request. The MGO considered the appeal a
worthy one, but many obstacles lay in the
way. The main one was that metal for mak-
ing such bells was to be had only in the
British Zone. Nevertheless, MG began send-
ing letters through proper channels. The
process was slow and even after a year of
negotiating, the bells were not in sight.

The faith of the townspeople in Military
Government was rewarded last month when

the gleaming bells arrived at the railroad
station, — , :

Children, middle-aged men and women, old
people and worshippers from all parts of
the Kreis assembled in Tirschenreuth to fol-
low the flower-bedecked, horse-drawn
wagons that carried the bells to the church.
Priests and altar boys led the procession
which stretched for blocks and wound
through the hilly, narrow cobblestone streets
to the hilltop church. MG officials looked
on with the satisfying feling of a difficult
job well done.

As the bell-master started the ringing of
the town’s regained treasure, people wept,
laughed and gave thanks. One little school
boy was heard saying: “God bless the
Americans!”

— From The Bavarian

--- Page 18 ---
‘When the first elements of the US Group
Control Council, predecessor to the Office of
Military Government for Germany (US),
moved to Berlin on 4 July 1945 they estab-
lished headquarters in the residential Zeh-
lendorf suburb in southwestern Berlin near
the Grunewald and the Wannsee. Principle
offices of the US Group CC were located in
a block of buildings which had served as
headquarters for the Luftwaffe Command of
Middle Germany. These buildings painted a
dirty gray for camouflage purposes, were
battered by fire, bombs and artillery shells.
Repairs to bomb and shell damage were
begun as the functional divisions moved in.
Other offices were set up in adjacent
buildings including those which formerly
housed the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institute, a Ger-

man scientific research center.

The 16 months which followed the arrival
of the initial elements of MG saw the US
Group CC become the Office of Military Gov-
ernment for Germany (US) and an almost
complete transformation of the area which
houses its headquarters. Debris was cleared
from the streets, buildings were completely
repaired, and landscaping improved.

Today nearly 10,000 persons of which
two-thirds are German civilians work for
Military Government in the OMGUS area.
The pictures on this and the following three
pages show several of the buildings in which
their activity is centered. Above is the Direc-
tor’s Building where the offices of the Mili-
tary Governor and Deputy Military Govern-
or are located.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 19 ---
(Above) Truman Hall, which was opened as a mess hall and cafeteria for OMGUS officers and civilians 4 July
1946; (below) a view of one of the entrances to the area containing the former Luftgau buildings; to the right
of the gate isthe Information Control Building, to the left the Internal Affairs and Communications’ Building.

Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 20 ---
(Above) The Oskar Helene Heim U-Bahn station which services the OMGUS area. Subway frains
run from this station fo the Regimental Compound where OMGUS troops are quartered. (Below)
The Finance Division Building, one of a group formerly occupied by the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute. Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 21 ---
(Above) The Headquarters Command Building; (below) a portion of
the compound occupied by the Headquarters Regiment of OMGUS. Signal Corps Photos

(Below) Harnack House, which serves as a club for officers and civilians, another
building in the OMGUS group formerly ocoupied by the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 22 ---
DANA ReceivesMG License as

Cooperative German Enteprise

DANA, the German news service set up
16 months ago by Military Government for
the exchange and distribution of German and
world news among the licensed German
newspapers of the US Zone, was turned over
to the German publishers 26 October for
operation as a licensed cooperative agency.

Although it became a German enterprise,
an OMGUS directive (AG 000.7 (IC), Licen-
sing of DANA, 25 October 1946) said,
“DANA will remain one of the chief means
of communication between the Occupying
Authorities and the German population and
one of the major instrumentalities for the
democratic reorientation of the German
people. Offices of Military Government and
German officials are therefore authorized and
encouraged to give DANA the. fullest co-
operation and support.”

The directive also said MG control officers
will continue to supervise the operations of
DANA, and until access to military instal-
lations can be secured for German reporiers
a smal] number of American reporters will
gather news for the agency at the principal
military headquariers. Facilities which have
been used to date by the US control and re-
porting staff will continue to be made avail-
able to them.

All equipment and property which had
been used by MG for DANA operations are
to be available to the licensed agency in ac-
cordance with provisions of the directive.
These provisions concern captured enemy.
equipment, US Army equipment and prop-
erty under property control.

The licensed agency is now owned and
operated cooperatively by the 77 licensed
publishers of the 41 newspapers now being
published in the US occupied areas of Ger-
many. The new general manager and editor-
in-chief is Dr. Wilhelm Necker who fled

19

Germany as an anti-Nazi in 1933.
managerial personnel include Walter Fnize
as news manager, Johannes Mueller as busi-
ness manager, and Edgar F. Scholz as chief
engineer. The central office and headquar-
ters are in Bad Nauheim. :

Housing Shortage Aided

The critical housing shortage in Wies-
baden will be somewhat alleviated in the
near future with the evacuation of 6,000 Dis-
placed Persons from the DP Camp there.

Seventeen hundred Poles will be trans-
ferred to Bavaria’s Wildflecken DP Camp,
while 1,300 have volunteered for repatria-
tion. Plans are being promulgated for the
speedy distribution to other Greater Hesse
Camps of the remaining 3,000 DPs, most of
whom are Balts. : i

Only those DP’s who are present em-
ployees of the US forces or skilled workers
in Greater Hesse industries are allowed to
remain in Wiesbaden. When reconditioned,
the Wiesbaden camp. will accomodate US
Army units whose transfer will in turn
vacate civilian residences.

Interzonal Commuters

Directive No. 42, signed by the Allied Co-
ordinating Committee, is intended to facili-
tate the movement of German workers and
employees across zonal demarcation lines.
Persons who reside in one zone of occupa-
tion and whose place of business, employ-
ment or profession is in another zone will
benefit by this new easing of control.
~ The privilege, however, is limited to those
persons who proceed daily from their place
of residence to their place of business, em-
ployment or’ profession. They will be
required to possess the Kennkarte or some
other’ personal indentity document required’
in the zone in which they reside. Also they

--- Page 23 ---
will be required to have a work permit
issued to them by the German work office
of the zone of residence, or the zone of work.

A person crossing the zonal line of de-
_-Marcation shall, once he crosses this line, be
" subject to civil laws of that zone while he
is therein. However, for food rationing and
certifications, his legal domicile shall be at
his place of residence.

These German workers will cross the
borders at any point which is a regular
avenue of travel, except where by mutual
agreement any two commanders of neigh-
boring zones may limit the crossing to pre-
determined crossing points. Also any two
commanders may by mutual agreement
require the workers’ documents to be
endorsed or stamped by their own military
or zonal administration personnel.

Travel to Britain

A Plan by which distressed persons in the
British Zone of Germany may go to the Unit-
ed Kingdom at the invitation of their relat-
tives is now in operation in the British Zone,
it is to be extended shortly to the other
zones, the British announcement said.

At present there are six categories of
distressed persons who may take advantage
of this plan, but their “hosts” in the United
Kingdom must give an assurance that they
will be responsible for maintenance and ac-
comodation and are also prepared to refund
the cost of transportation to the Central
Office for refugees in London.

An invitation must be sent by letter from
the “host” in the United Kingdom to the
proposed “guest” in Germany. The “guest”
must then apply to the nearest German police
station for an exit permit and a visa for the
United Kingdom. Applicants are vetted by
Public Safety Officers who, if they are satis-
fied that a person comes within one of the
categories of distressed persons, will send on
their papers to the Regional Officer of En-
tries and Exit Branch. Final clearance is
secured from the combined travel board and
the transport control officer in Berlin.

Personnel Changes

Recent appointments in the Civil Ad-
ministration Division, OMGUS, have been
Edward H. Litchfield as Deputy Director,
Roger H. Wells as Consultant to the Direct-
or, Kenneth Dayton as Chief of the Govern-
mental Structures Branch, and Richard M.
Scammon as Chief of the Election Affairs
Branch.

In addition to his new duties, Mr. Litch-
field will continue as chairman of the Inter-
Divisional Committee on Governmental Af-
fairs. Before joining the American Military
Government in November 1945, he was
active in Michigan governmental and civil
service programs.

C. E. Sands, Executive Officer for the
Finance Division, OMGUS, since last April,
has been appointed acting Secretary General
for the tribunal to sit on the next war crimes
trial opening this month in Nuremberg. He
succeeded Col. John E. Ray, the General
Secretary for the International Military
Tribunal in the Nuremberg trials which
closed last month.

Recent USFET assignments included
Brig. Gen. Cornelius E. Ryan as Head-
quarters Commandant, USFET, and Lt. Col.
John I. Rhea as acting Theater Chaplain
during the temporary absence of Col. Paul
J. Maddox.

Labor Courts

A law providing for establishment of labor
courts in the US Zone of Germany has been
approved by OMGUS. The law was pro-
posed by the Laenderrat.

The courts, separate from the German
judicial system, will be composed of a chair-
man and one representative each for em-
ployers and labor. The chairmen are per-
manent. The other two members are drawn
from panels nominated by employers or em-
ployer groups and trade unions of their
federations.

Jurisdiction of the courts is limited to
labor relations disputes between individual
employees and employers which are covered
by various German labor laws.

--- Page 24 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The US Army has established displaced
persons detention centers in Munchburg,
Bavaria and in Schwaebisch-Hall, Wuert-
temberg-Baden. OMGUS has also established
and is maintaining a separate long-term
penal institution at Furth. This institution
is for the confinement and detention of all
UN Displaced Persons who have been con-
victed by intermediate and general MG
Courts for terms of imprisonment of over one
year, and who are not scheduled for forcible
repatriation.

CIVILIAN INTERNMENT CAMPS

All civilian internment enclosures in
Bavaria except one at Nuremberg have been
turned over to German authorities. The
camp at Darmstadt, Greater Hesse, was
scheduled for transfer by 1 November. A
group of enclosures at Ludwigsburg, Wuert-
temberg-Baden, have been turned over except
one which is being retained by the US Army
for security suspects.

The production of calcium cyanamid at
Trostberg was less than 2,300 tons weekly,
or about 53 percent of capacity, owing to a
shutdown for repairs.

The fuel for space heating made available
for US and British Sectors of Berlin by the
Soviet Zone is 180,000 tons of brown coal
briquettes and about 156,250 cords of wood.
This is in return for deliveries of iron and
steel from the British Zone.

CAPTURED VEHICLES RELEASED

USFET has approved the release to Ger-
man authorities of 50 captured enemy trucks
for use in highway maintenance work in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Steel to be used in the reconstruction of
Autobahn bridges between Stutigart and
Karlsruhe has been reseased from the Hanau
depot and delivered to the project sites.

The first Rothenkirchen-Pressig to Tettau
rail run since April 1945 was made on
12 October. This was the result of an agree-
ment reached with the Soviets to repair a

21

30-foot bridge over the Tettau River. There
will be no border check on this route, which
crosses into the Soviet Zone seven times.

Net imports of electric power from
Austria have decreased from about one-
quarter of the total net imports to a point
where more power is being exported to
Austria than is being received from there
by the US Zone. In the city of Berlin,
supplies of electric power generated in the
Soviet Zone for the US Sector have also
been decreased.

Arrangements have been made to obtain
wool from the British Zone for processing
in the US Zone. Payment for the wool will
be made out of a portion of the finished
textiles.

Lists of general-purpose equipment,
suitable for peaceful production and located
in the US Zone, have been forwarded to the
Allied Coordinating Committee, who will
notify the Inter-Allied Reparations Agency
and the Soviet Union.

RESTITUTION PROGRAM

As a part of the restitution process, ten
thoroughbred race horses have been returned
to Poland. Among the many valuable paint-
ings recently returned to France were a por-
trait by Nicholas Maes and a landscape by
Van Goyen from the Rothschild collection.

The first major tabulations of German ex-
ternal assets in Switzerland and Japan have
been completed. They are based on approxi-
mately 190,000 declarations filed in the US
Zone. The name of the owner, type of asset
and the amount are listed. It is expected
that the tabulations for all remaining
countries will be completed in November.

A law on unemployment insurance as an
emergency measure for the winter of 1946-
1947 has been submitted to OMGUS for ap-
proval by the Laenderrat. Unemployment
benefits will be paid to insured workers
registered at employment offices who are
willing and able to work but unable to find
suitable employment.

--- Page 25 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts trom official instructions
are printed for the benefit of our readers.
Official copies of the quoted circulars, letters
and directives may be obtained by writing
to the originating headquarters.

Security Suspects

Germans cannot be arrested in the future
and charged under the broad classification
of “security suspect” or “security threat,”
according to USFET directive AG 383.7
GBI-AGO, dated 9 October. This does not
alter, however, the authority of any arrest-
ing agency to arrest and hold an individual
for investigation.

“Those internees now held as security
suspects or threats will be immediately
reclassified into another category and dealt
with accordingly. If no applicable category
exists and if there is insufficient evidence for
trial under Ordinance No. 1, Military Gov-
ernment Regulations Title 23, or any
pertinent law in effect, the individual will
be released.”

Currency Exchange Policy

Personnel traveling to and from the oc-
cupied zones and from one country to another
outside of the occupied zones, must comply
with the customs regulations regarding cur-
rency of each country. Since all European
countries have regulations covering import
and export of currencies, non-compliance
may cause considerable inconvenience and
perhaps a monetary loss to travelers. This
currency exchange policy for all US per-
sonnel in the ET is set forth in USFET
directive AG 123.7 FDD-AGO, dated 17 Oc-
tober 1946.

The Office of the Theater Fiscal Director
is instructed to inform Finance Officers of
the official customs regulations of the
various European countries, and Finance Of-
ficers should therefore be consulted by

individuals preparatory to making a jour-
ney. This policy is intended to apply to
personal funds and not to official and quasi-
official funds. ‘

It is further emphasized that Finance Of-
ficers are not authorized to accept foreign
currencies for exchange to Military Payment
Certificates (Circular 256, War Department,
23 August 1946). Travelers are advised not
to accumulate amounts of foreign currencies
in excess of needs since these amounts are
not convertible to dollar instruments, includ-
ing Military Payment Certificates.

Personnel for Bizonal Agencies

Procedures for recommending German
personnel for bizonal German agencies are
outlined in the OMGUS directive “Person-
nel for Bizonal German Agencies,” AG 200.3
CA, 10 October 1946.

The directive specifies that diréctors of
Land Offices of Military Government and
other MG agencies will make available to
the Civil Administration Division, OMGUS
information regarding persons under con-
sideration.. Such information will include a
report on the candidate under the local Law
for Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism along with pertinent documents.

Clearance of persons recommended for
positions on bizonal agencies is the responsi-
bility of the Civil Administration Division.

Availability Information

USFET letter AES 400.13, Availability
Information, 4 October 1946, forwards to
theater installations the latest report from
the War Department on the supply status
of Army Exchange Service merchandise from
the United States. Subsequent reports will
be distributed monthly. Originating office of
this letter is: Army Exchange Service Head-
quarters, USFET, APO 757, Attn. Procure-
ment Branch.

--- Page 26 ---
Public Approval of Nuremberg
Verdicts Revealed by ICD Poll

The judgment imposed at the Nuremberg
‘War Crimes Trials won approval of the
majority of the German people in the US
Zone, but a large number of German political
leaders expressed strong dissatisfaction over
the acquittals of Schacht, Papen and
Fritzsche, according to an announcement by
the Director of Information Control, OMGUS.

The announcement was based on the
results of the ninth public opinion sampling
on the war crimes cases by the ODIC Surveys
Branch. A summary of the eight previous
surveys appeared in Issue No. 61 of the
Weekly Information Bulletin of 30 Septem-
ber 1946.

Of the persons questioned in the US Zone
on the outcome of the trials, 53 percent con-
sidered the verdicts in general as “just
right;” 20 percent thought they were “too
mild,” 11 percent believed they were “too
harsh,” and 16 percent had no opinion.

Among those who found the sentences too
harsh, the survey pointed out, many specified
that Keitel, Jodl and the military in general
had been punished too severely. Those who
found the judgments too mild specified
Fritzsche, Papen, Schacht and Schirach as
having been let off too lightly. Other com-
ments were that all should have been punish-
ed and that the verdicts were “too varied.”

Four questions, including that above, were
asked. In answer to the question “Have you
followed the newspaper and radio accounts
of the Nuremberg trials?” 81 percent an-
swered affirmative and 19 percent replied
Noe

Seventy-four percent of the respondents
said the trials were carried out in a just
manner and only five percent said they were
not, while 21 percent offered no opinion.

The fourth question, “In your opinion was
too harsh a judgment handed down for a

answers from those who thought that the
verdicts in general were just but that some
individual injustices had been committed.
The ‘answers were: Yes, 25 percent; Noe,
57 percent; no opinion, 20 percent.

“It should be noted,” the survey siiiied
out, “that those who thought that one or
some of the verdicts had béen too harsh were
about twice as numerous as those condemning
the entire verdicts as too strict.” Those who
answered the question in the affirmative spe-
cified Keitel, Jodl, the military in general,
Raeder and Neurath, in that order.”

AQUITTALS SURPRISED GERMANS

The acquitial of Schacht, Papen and
Fritzsche and the prison senténces imposed
on some of the other defendants evoked ex-
pressions of “surprise and dismay” from the
majority of political leadérs interviewed, the
survey report said. But a small number crit-
icized the acquittal of the four organi-
zations — German general staff, Reich cabi-
net, SA and OKW.

In Greater Hesse, for example, 22 com-
munity leaders were interviewed, and only
two of them agreed completely with the ver-
dict. One of them added that, if all had been
sentenced to death, the people would have
asked: “Why did they conduct the trial any-
way?”

An SPD leader in Greater Hesse asserted:
Nobody is satisfied with the verdict. Per-
sonally, I am particularly dissatisfied with
the sentence given Neurath, who after all
was convicied on all four counts. The acquit-
tals are very unsatisfactory, particularly
from a ‘German viewpoint.’ Papen started
all the misery. Without him the Nazis would
never have come to power . . .”

CDU leaders in Greater Hesse likewise
were dissatisfied with the acquittals. One of
them said: “I am very much surprised that

--- Page 27 ---
Papen got away; he is the worst of the whole
lot. Because of his influence with Hinden-
burg, Hitler was appointed chancellor.”

Reactions of political leaders in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden were not.so strong in tone. They
expressed amazement at Papen’s exoneration
but at the same time were mildly critical of
the verdicts against the military personnel
and ‘considerably more concerning Neurath,
whom most Wuerttembergers appear to con-
sider “stupid but honest.”

One Bavarian leader called the verdict “a
triumph of justice” and spoke favorably of
the variations in the sentences. Another
leader, in a Radio Munich broadcast, termed
the trials as fair. The Bavarian denazification
minister expressed his determination to
bring the three acquitted defendents to trial
as Class I offenders if any of them remained
in Bavaria.

The survey pointed. out that the leftists
were more outspoken than the rightists in
their condemnation of the sentences.

Execution of Nazi Leaders

Most licensed newspapers in the US Zone
treated the Nuremberg executions as the main
news story of the week of 14 to 21 October,
although some papers handled the hangings
as minor news, according to the weekly press
analysis by the Office of Information Control,
OMGUS. Editorials recapitulated earlier
philippics against the Nazi leaders. Goering’s
suicide was generally condemned as cow-
ardly.

“The way they died is not as shameful and
ignominious ‘as they deserved,” said the
Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidelberg).. “We
do not believe their last words in which they
professed their faith in their people. In the
lifetime they had ocassion every day to
manifest this faith by putting an end to the
insanity. But they prolonged their own exis-
tence with the lives of many thousands of
Germans.”

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) ex-
pressed satisfaction that the condemned mili-
tary men were hanged, not shot. “Murderers,

24

even murderers in generals’ uniforms, must
be denied the honorable bullet.” But “that
Goering the greatest war criminal of them
all, could commit suicide by poison is em-
barrassing. There can be no excuse that he
was able to anticipate execution of~his sen-
tence. Goering belonged to the gallows.”

“The last big meeting of the Nazi poten-
tates in Nuremberg is over,” summed.up the
Main Echo (Aschaffenburg).

Col. Howley Interview

Der Abend, US licensed evening paper in
Berlin, published a long interview: with Col.
Frank L. Howley, Director of US Military
Government for the US Sector of Berlin. The
paper quoted Colonel Howley as declaring
the Americans will stay in Germany until
German democracy is secured and hoping the
time. will come when the Germans will again
be able to govern their united Germany them-
selves. ,

“Military Government will turn over’ its
tasks to Germans as soon as they are able to
act in a democratic way,” asserted Colonel
Howley, repeating Secretary of State Byrnes’
remarks to the effect that the Americans will
stay in Germany so long as an occupation
force is needed. To the doubters the Director
referred them to the dependent families who
have come to Berlin.

“America believes in a united Germany and
has done everything to carry through the
Potsdam Declaration,” he added, pointing
out that the Americans have turned over a
great part of governmental work to the Ger-
mans and will continue to do so. “The Amer-
icans will continue granting assistance in the
fight for a sound economic basis. The ful-
fillment of the real aim may take 10, 20,
30 years, we don’t know exactly, but it is
nonsense to state the Americans will leave
Berlin or Germany before this is fulfilled...
There is no people which is more interested
in Berlin and Germany than the Americans,
and no people who will give more aid to the
Germans on their way to democracy until
they will be able to travel this way indepen-
dently.”

--- Page 28 ---
UN’s Task Outlined by Press
As General Assembly Opens

The American press and radio, in welcom-
ing the opening session of the UN General
Assembly in New York, stressed the As-
sembly’s importance in continuing progress
toward peace and prosperity by providing
an open platform on which both small and
large nations can present their opinions and
aspirations to the world.

The New York Times said in part: “The
products of the London session’s work...
have become so much a part of international
life and fill such apparent needs that it is
difficult to conceive of a world without them.
Now the Assembly faces the more difficult
task of resolving the difference of opinion
among nations on many problems that go to
the bottom of the difficulties which threat-
ened to split the world into two camps. It
is in that task that the assembly should be
best able to perform its primary functions as
a town meeting.

“The world and the conscience of mankind
... for only when all views and interest have
been presented and tested under the glare
of publicity is it possible for world opinion
to decide between them. And after the failure
of the many secret conferences to resolve
problems left over from the war, that is
apparently the only way left to reach
agreement among nations.”

New York Herald Tribune: “The assembly
can do a great deal toward establishing cli-
mate of opinion and aspiration, which will
make it eassier for the great powers to re-
solve their own dilemmas . . . despite their
quarrels all powers great and small, are
pledged to an international view of the world
problem; here is a truly ‘general’ assembly
capable of developing and expressing the
ideal which that Assembly implies.”

Baltimore Sun: “In the course of the ses-
sion . . . there will be much conflict in de-

tieth century synonym for disagreemén

that disagreement is the bread and butter of

any such body. The value of the General

Assembly is to be measured not by the skill

with which it evades conflicts but by the

way it faces conflicts and recommends just
- solutions.”

New York Post: “Byrnes stressed that we
no longer live amid the unifying necessities
of the war, and consequently face the danger
that rivalry between Allies will lead to chaos
instead of peace. Three weeks before, ex-
Secretary of State Hull issued a statement
stressing the same danger . . . The assembly
will be working on such matters as establish-
ment of a World Health Organization . ..
That is the kind of foundation work which,
slowly, builds a better world. The assembly
must not be crippled by great power friction.”

Chicago Sun: “It is up to each of the Big
Three — not only in the work of UN but
by negotiating jwith each other on basic
world issues to make it possible for UN and
all its members to get ahead . . . the way to
make world government possible is to make
the United Nations work, and then progres-
sively to strengthen it.”

Washington Post: “(Molotov) expressed
the hopeful thought that ... ‘any diffi-
culties can be overcome, given good will
and a real desire to achieve mutual under-
standing’ . . . coming on top of the forth-
right but conciliatory statements regarding
Russian-American relations made recently by
Byrnes and Vandenberg, Molotov’s remarks
are significant . . . Certainly the high hopes
which the peoples of the world place in UN
will be thwarted unless the yawning chasm
of differences and disagreements separating
Russia and the Western Powers is somehow
bridged over. But in no small measure, though
of course not altogether, that depends on

--- Page 29 ---
what Russia is prepared to do.”

Radio commentator Winston Burdette:
“Essentially the Assembly is a world forum,
a platform where nations large and small
can voice their complaints and present their
‘proposals for all the world to hear .. . the
harsh spotlight will be turned on several con-
troversial issues . . . but at the same time
there will be a good deal of earnest laborious
work that will be no less constructive’ be-
cause it does not make such lively news.”

Byrnes’ Speech Interpreted as

Plea for Soviet Unterstanding

Calling Secretary of State James F.
Byrnes’ radio address to the American
people a clear, timely enunciation of United
States foreign policy, US newspapers interp-
reted it as a direct appeal to the Soviet
‘Union for tolerance and understanding.

Editorials generally highlighted these
points in Secretary Byrnes’ exposition: The
American people’ extended “a. hand of
friendship” to all other people, sympathetic
understanding between the Soviet Union
and the United States is “the paramount
task of statesmanship;” in seeking to achieve
goals by conciliation, the United States
attitude is one of patience and firmness.

They noted Mr. Byrnes “squarely faced”
existing tensions. And they regarded the
speech, along with the subsequent address by
Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, one of Mr.
Byrnes’ advisers at Paris, as a clear enuncia-
tion of a bi-partisan supported US foreign
policy.

Philadelphia Record said: ‘Secretary
Byrnes’ speech was_a brilliant climax-to his
masterly work at the Paris Conference .. .
He showed how this country and Russia can
achieve peace — by tolerance. Peace is
something well win by working, not by
wishing.”

Washington Post: “In our opinion,
Byrnes . . . responded to the deepest instincts
“in the American psyche that our only salva-
tion is to work for peace based upon justice
as well as agreement ... . He showed he
yields to no one in his quest for it . . . there

‘asserted in the Atlantic Charter .

was no weariness in his exposition... It
is refreshing to hear convictions uttered
with such calm determination.”

The New York Times: “He dealt frankly,
soberly and, we think, constructively with
the central problem that must still be solved.
It is not the imperfect ‘letterhead provisions’
of the treaties drafted in Paris that disturbs
him. It is rather the ‘continued if not in-
creasing tension’ between Russia and the
United States ...

“Mr. Byrnes rejects both ‘soft’ and ‘tough’
as proper descriptions of the policy which
he pursued toward Russia. He prefers
‘patient but firm’... Patient, he certainly
has been . . . firm he must be. . . surely it
is true that ‘every understanding requires
the reconciliation of differences and not a
yielding by one state to the arbitrary will of
the other.”

Truman’s UN Address

President Truman’s reiteration of the “one
world” idea despite disappointments in
peacemaking and his declaration that. the
peace-ideal can only be realized by settling
conflicts with “law and justice” have been
‘stressed in US editorial comment on his
welcome address to the UN General As-
sembly. .

-The New York Times in a editorial titled
“Still One World,” stated: “President Tru-
man reaffirmed our government’s faith in the
earlier and still official American view of
a universality of interest . ... the doctrine
. . (and)
the principle upon which the organization
of the United Nations itself was built . . .”

Philadelphia Record: “We are glad Tru-
man mentioned all the Four Freedoms...
we are glad that he stressed freedom from
fear as meaning above all else freedom from
fear of war. Truman was frank in admitting
that there are differences among the Allies
all the delegates knew, but it’s refreshing to
have a statesman admit the obvious. Truman,
however, refused to be discouraged by the
differences and looked forward confidently
to peace.” :

--- Page 30 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Continued from page 2)

Downgrading of Classified Material. . . . . .

Provision of Entertainment and Indigenous Labor fo Red Cross Clubs
Settlement under Armed Forces Leave Act .

Testimony in German Courts .

Marriage

Ratio of German ‘Civilians per Sleeping Room

Repatriation of Enemy and Ex-Enemy Nationals

Downgrading of Classified Documents . ..... .

Authority to Issue Military Entry Permits .

Change in MGR, Title 14, Rates and Fares for Highway Transport .
Establishment of the Theater Motor Maintenance School for Civilians
Mailing of Parcels .

Curreriay Exchange Policy .

Change in Designation of the Chemical Warfare Service

Grain Prices for the 1946-47 Season

Bizonal Unification and Existing Laender and Laenderrat Organizations
Graves Registration

Highway Traffic Regulations

ACA Directive No 40 .

Military Government Ordinance No. 7 — Change 18 fo Tifle 23, Legislation

Licensing of DANA (German News Service)

AG 311.5 GAP-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 353.8 GAP-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 150 FDD-AGO
15 Oct 1946, USFET

Circular No. 154
15 Oct 1946, USFET

Circular No. 153
15 Oct 1946, USFET ~

AG 620 GDS-AGO
16 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 383.7 GEC-AGO
16 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 312.1 AGO
16 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 014.331 GAP-AGO
16 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 010.6 (TD)
16 Oct 1946. OMGUS

AG 352 ORD-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

Circular No 155
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 123. 7 FDD-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 322 CML-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 400.32 (ED)’
21 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 010.1 (CA)
21 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Circular No 157
23 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 611 (TD)
23 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 000.7 (IC)
24 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (CC)
25 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 000.7 (IC)
25 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly fo the originating headquarters. .

oF

--- Page 31 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen F A Keating
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Wiirttemberg-Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154)
Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Lt Col M O Edwards
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart 1st Lt J B Clifford
Stuttgart Area
*SK Stutt; Stuttgart Lt Col I L Harlow
*LK Boblingen Beblingen Capt M P Ernst
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko, Jr
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Maj R A Morgen
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Capt R Forrest
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallazza
*LK Niirtingen Nirtingen Maj J F Capell
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Capt A Smi

Heidelberg Area

*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col C L Jacksow
*SK/LK Mannheim Mannheim Lt Col C H Rue
*LK Buchen Buchen Capt C van Zelfden
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Ist Lt J Zecca
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Capt K R Plessner
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Lt Col W T Burt
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj R H Stimson
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Capt R C Stenson
Heilbronn Area
*SK/LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Lt Col C H West
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim ist Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Bad Mergentheim Capt B V Bloom
*LK Oehringen Oehringen Capt G H Caple

* Liaison and Security

28

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING. OFFICER

*LK Goeppingen
*SK/LK Ulm

*LK Aalen

*LK Schw. Gmuend
*LK Heidenheim

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK ‘Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hiinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbaeh
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

Goeppingen: Area:
Goeppingen
Une pinge:

Aalen
Schw. Gmuend
Heidenheim

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

cone
lelsungen
Fritlas
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen

29

LtCol A G Spitz
Maj M L Hoover
Maj C H Palletto
Maj R Lascoe
Maj L H Kyle

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
1st Lt Irving Ittner
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola

Maj R N Eddy
Capt M S Clark
Capt H M Williams
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Capt R E Brandt
Capt N N Nagy
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt J W Francis
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C H Reed
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E E Covell
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt N C Neider.
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj R A Gish
Capt R O Didlo
Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR”
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Commandant
Hq & Sv Company

CoA

*SK/LK Werner
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen
*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt ~

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lobr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt (Saale)
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

Munich

Munich

Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wourzbur,
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg:
Neustadt a. d. Salle -
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin‘
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt C R Argo
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Lt Col R T Shelby
Maj F Dunn

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt H I Blevig
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R W Jernigin
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Capt A G Prondzinski
Capt G E Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt W _W James
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt F E Witty
Capt L K Owens
Capt T F Griffin
Capt E E Kelly
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt M B Jaeger
Capt I A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

CoB

SK/LK Nurnberg

*SK/LK Bamberg

*SK/LK Bayreu

*SK/LK Erlangen

*SK/LK Neustadt & Coburg
*LK Kronach

*SK/LK Hof

*SK/LK Ansbach

*SK/LK Furth: © ;
*LK Lichtenfels & SK Staffelstein
*LK Ebermannstadt

*LK Hochstadt a..d. Aisch
*SK/LK Kulmbach

*LK Pegnitz-

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamber;
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Munchberg

30

Col E M Haight

Lt Col A T Callicot
Lt Col J R Case
Lt Col S M Guild
Lt Col F Robie
Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund
Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R Y Boyer
Capt H V Moore
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt H G Stamatis
Maj R C Anderson

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR:
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont’d)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forchheim
*LK Dinkelsbubl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hilpolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf..

*LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rehau
‘Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt ~~
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbrick
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Capt L De Ford |
Maj T Cleary

Maj H Zurn

Maj A S Adams
Capt J R Thomas
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Lt Col J C Barnet
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj F C Smith
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
1st Lt L W Dilzard

_, Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg E
*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg'vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

"LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen

*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenbur
*LK Bogen :
*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainbur,

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach::

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Seeurity

Regensbur,
Regensbure
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelkeim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg

F .
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Rodin,
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenbur,
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainbur,
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

31

Lt Col O D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj R E Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek
Lt Col J R Hector
Ist Lt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Crowley
Maj E O Carlson
Capt L R Mariels
Capt D S Field

Capt R O Woodward
Maj H A Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt R M McWorther
Capt G L Milner
Capt T O Rose

Ist Lt N Ugland

Lt Col G H Foster
Maj R B Swatosh
Maj F B Marshall
Capt A J Howard
Maj D L O’Roark
Maj T G Shackelford
Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Maj J B Clark

Maj L P Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj E Fichter

Capt A G Albert
Maj R T Coykendall-
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson, Jr
Ist Lt G L Thomas
Maj J J Maher, Jr
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones

Maj R E Levy

Maj J F Rey

lst Lt K J Miller, Jr

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING. OFFICER
Regicrungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co E Munich Lt Col R J Philpott
*SK/LK Munich Munich Lt Col E Keller
*SK/LK Freising Freising Lt Col H E Blakeley
*LK Miesbach iesbach Capt W A Forys
*LK Traunstein: ‘raunstein Capt V L Thom
*LK Altoettin; sAltoetting Capt C A Larimer
*SK/LK Rosenheim Rosenheim Capt R H Necel
*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen Partenkirchen Maj M W Nitz
*SK/LK Ingolstadt Ingolstadt Lt Col J H Kelly
*LK Erding Erding Maj C A Brown
*LK Laufen Laufen Capt C J Wardle
*LK Muhldorf Muhldorf Ist Lt C V Russell
*LK Wasserburg Wasserburg Capt D Root
*LK Toelz Bad Toelz Maj A O Froede
*LK Aibling Bad Aiblin, Maj E J H Newmeyer
*LK Fuerstenfeldbruck Fuerstenfeldbruck Ist Lt C C Boatwright
*LK Landsberg Landsberg Maj C A Rein
*LK Pfaffenhofen Pfaffenhofen Maj H E Reed
*LK Starnberg Starnberg Maj C E Carlsen
*LK Weilheim Weilheim Capt M J Groves
*LK Wolfratshausen Wolfratshausen Maj P L Steers Jr
*LK Berchtesgaden Berchtesgaden Maj M Mawrence
*LK Ebersberg Ebersberg Capt E J Pennetto
*LK Aichach Aichach Capt J E Thayer
*LK Schrobenhausen Schrobenhausen Capt H J Bierman
*LK Dachau Dachau Maj S P Sussell
*LK Schongau Schongau Capt C S Garber

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Donauwérth
*LK Gunzber,

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augebure
Dillingen

Neu Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwérth
Gunzber,

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach -
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertin,
Friedbog:
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 1755)
Berlin

BERLIN SECTOR
(APO 151)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

82

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R J Paul

Maj H E Howlett
Maj J E Rhea

Maj R A Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Maj M G Norum
Capt S D Lubin

Ist Lt M W Toepfer
Capt L A Proper
Maj H M Sebastian
Maj B Peshmalyan
Capt J N Urtes
Capt F W Guzak
Capt J O Renalds
Maj A E Elliot

Capt J M Woodwart
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Lt Col Gordon Browning
Lt Col L S Diggs