--- Page 2 ---
E IN BAVARIA

--- Page 3 ---
WALDECK

FRANKENBERG

FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

OPF

ALSFELD
‘
LAUTERBACH,
OBER &
LAHNKREIS

FRIEOBERG
BODINGEN

QBERTAUNUS
WIESBADEN, iawn
OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAUI

DIEBURG

DARMSTAD”
BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH
TAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH 3 :

HEILBRONN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INE \

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U. S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Preparation of Estimate of Obligations (Funds Requirements) for the
Second Quarter, Fiscal Year 1947

Screening of Labor Service Companies (Civilian Guard, Polish) .
Army Assistance to German Youth Activities, US Zone

Locator Information

Employment of UNRRA Personnel . . . . . -

Utilization of Officer Personnel .

Handicraft Report Form .

Special Investigation Sections, Military Police .

Quarterly Submission of Unit Changes

Military Community Boundaries .

Trade Union Buildings

Food Conservation

Visits to Civilian Internment Enclosures

Plan for Reporting Status of Personnel by Separation Criteria .
Administration of Members of the Navy Dental Corps on Duty with
the US Army . 2. 2.)
Letters of Condolence

Venereal Disease Rate .

Attitude Research Section .

Surplus Property Accounting Division (SPAD) .

Elimination of Non-Essential Traffic from Telegraph, Radio and Cable
Facilities 2... ee

Loss of Certificates of License and License Plates .

Table of Organization, Army Band Units.

AG 121 BUD-AGO
29 July 1946, USFET

AG 370.093 GDS-AGO
19 August 1946, USFET

AG 353.8 GCT-AGO
24 August 1946, USFET

AG 350.05 AGO
25 August 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGE
27 August 1946, USFET

AG 210.3 GAP-AGB
29 August 1946, USFET

AG 600.9 SSP-AGO
30 August 1946, USFET

AG 322 PMG-AGO

31 August 1946, USFET

AG 322 GCT-AGO
4 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 680 GDS-AGO
4 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 014.37 GEC-AGO
4 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 430.2 RMJ-AGO
4 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 353.02 GAP-AGO
4 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 201.1 GAP-AGP
5 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 045 GAP-AGC
6 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 333.5 AGK
6 Sept 1946, USFET™

AG 726 GAP-AGO
6 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 330.11 INE-AAGO
6 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 400.703 GAP-AGO
6 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 311.2 SIG-AGO
6 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 451.02 ORD-AGO
9 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 320.3 SSP-AGO
9 Sept 1946, USFET

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 6 ---
cease z=

MADE IN BAVARIA: — The a on this
week's cover shows two young German boys
examining*the’ one-cylinder gasoline engine
attached to a bicycle on display at the Export
Exposition in the Haus der Kunst, Munich.
For the story of the Munich exhibitsee “Showcase
of Bavarian Industry" on page 4 of this issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Thomas A.Falco wrote Showcase of Bavarian
Industry after a recent visit to the Export
Exposition currently being held in Munich. A
regular contributor to the “Weekly Information
Bulletin,” Mr. Falco is Chief Reports Officer,
Reports and Statistics Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS.

New Stamps for Germany was written by
John D. Ryals, Jr., of the Reports and Statistics
Section, I.A. & C. Division, OMGUS. Mr.Ryals
has been in Europe three years, serving with
the Army Service Forces before joining
OMGUS one year ago. Prior to his war
service, he was with Civil Aeronoutics Authority.

The need for a central department for Trans-
portation is outlined in Central German
Agencies: Part 8. This is the final article
of a series taken from the OMGUS report of
the same fitle. The report is the first concrete
blueprint for central German agencies as
outlined in the Potsdam agreement.

THIS. WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Showcase of Bavarian Industry
New Stamos for Germany
Central German Agencies: Part 8
US Zone Industrial Production
Allied Barges Reach Berlin
Mittelschule 1

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT

--- Page 7 ---
by Thomas A. Falco

On an edge of Munich’s English Garden, a
large park amid the ruins of what was once
a “queen among continental cities,” stands
the gleaming white, neoclassical “Haus der
Deutschen Kunst,” or House of German Art.
From the time the Haus der Kunst — as it
is now known — was erected in 1936, through
the years of armed peace and war that fol-
lowed, Adolf Hitler made it a center of Nazi
art and dreamed of building it into a symbol
of the “new” culture that was to rule Europe.

Today, the Haus der Kunst still gleams
white against the green of the English
Garden, but the purpose for which it is now
being used is a far cry from Hitler’s dream.
About 15 percent of its floor space is oc-
cupied by a mess for officers and civilians
of the Office of Military Government for
Bavaria. Of the remaining 85 percent, one-
half features an exhibit of 15th and 16th
Century Bavarian art, paintings by Duerer,

Grunewald, Cranach, Holbein — men who
brought German art to the peak of its fame
and made Munich “the “Florence of Ger-
many.” The balance of the building consists
of a display of Bavarian goods that sym-
bolizes not Nazi culture, but the goods a
peaceful Germany would like to sell to a
peaceful world. :
It is the Bavarian Export Show.

VARIETY OF CRAFTS REPRESENTED

Here are toys made by Bavarian craftsmen
with a tradition of 1,000 years behind them.
Here are porcelain and chinaware designed
with an aristocratic grace that reflects the
time, some two hundred years ago, when the
industry was a prerogative of the ruling
families in the Laender. Here are rings, pins
and bracelets fashioned to a loveliness that
mirrors the beauty of Bavaria’s lakes, moun-
tains and meadows.

Here, too, are textiles, leather goods, elec-
trical equipment, industrial machinery, motor-

--- Page 8 ---
(Left) The’ Haus der Kunst in Munich which houses
the current Export Exhibition

Signal Corps Photo

eycles, optical goods, glassware, paper, phar-
maceuticals, athletic equipment, photographic
supplies. Munich’s Export Show has about
800 individual exhibits including several,
such as textiles, which represent groups of
manufacturers. In addition, an adjacent
portion of the English Garden shows nine
prefabricated houses designed.and built by
the Association of Bavarian Wood Working
Industry, All told, the number of manufac-
turers represented runs to approximately
3,500, all located in Bavaria.

Many of the manufacturers and artisans
who have taken this gold and silver, this clay
and kaolin, this cotton and wool, this glass
and wood, this iron and steel, and fashioned
them into the products on display are famous
not only in Germany but throughout the
world: Agfa, Bemberg, Artur Graecmann,
Klepper-Werke, Siemens & Halske, Eberhard
Faber, Stiefenhofer, Friedrich Deckel, Ma-
schinenfabrik Augsburg-Nuremberg (M.A.N.)
Rosenthal, and Nymphenburg.

NECESSITY OF EXPORT SHOW
The origin of the Munich show is rooted
in necessity. Germany, always dependent on
exports, must now rely more than ever be-
fore on exports for a livable economy. For-
merly, she relied chiefly on exchange of her
iron and steel, her machine tools and capital

equipment, her ships and chemicals, for raw
materials. and food.. But today, with her
heavy industry. broken by war and stripped
by reparations, Germany’s exports must
perforce be concentrated on peacetime prod-
ucts such as toys, jewelry, cameras, china-
ware, prefabricated homes and_handicraft
items. Until she can sell substantial quanti-
ties of such “peaceful” products in the markets
of the world, Germany is a liability on the
world balance sheet. She is like a shopkeeper
who hasn’t quite gotten around to selling a
new stock of wares and hence must depend
on a neighbor to keep her going. That de-
pendence, for one thing, is costing US tax-
payers a large sum annually, chiefly for food,

“ACTION BY ‘MILITARY GOVERNMENT

Sooner or later, a halt must be called in
such a situation. Both Military Government
and German officials realized that a start
toward ‘solving the problem must be made.
Bavaria, with some 60 percent of US Zone
industry and world-famous for its toys, ce-
ramics, cameras and handicraft, was a logical
place for action. There, last January, sev-
eral members of the Trade & Commerce
Branch, Office of Military Government for
Bavaria, seized upon the idea of an export
exposition, a show-case for Bavarian industry
to let a merchandise-hungry world know
what at least one part of Germany could do
in the way of satisfying its postwar economic
appetite. The idea was promptly approved

(Below) Bavarian china and ceramics from 45 different
manufacturers on display at the Munich Export Exhibition

--- Page 9 ---
by Dr. Ludwig Erhard, Minister of Economics
for Bavaria, and Col. S. Y. McGiffert, Chief
of the Economics Division, OMGB.

Germans and Americans worked hand in
hand to translate the idea of an export ex-
position into reality. And now they’re plug-
ging away to make it bigger and better.
Among them is Dr. Edward Gumbel, general
advisor to the Minister of Economics, a busi-
nessman whose reward for exposing war-
time graft by a number of top SA (Sturm-
abteilung) and SS (Schutzstaffel) men was
four and one-half years in concentration
camps. Another is blue-eyed Lutz Schuetzen-
dorf, personal aide to the Minister of Eco-
nomics and manager of the show. An auto-
motive engineer, Schuetzendorf attended Gen-
eral Motors’ Institute of Technology in Flint,
Mich., between 1929 and 1933, and seems
more American than German. There is
quiet-mannered, quick-witted Paul S. Nevin,
chief of OMGB’s Trade and Commerce
Branch, a man with a flair for handling
people. And there is blonde Peter H. Smith,
energetic head of Trade & Commerce’s Ex-
port-Import Section in Bavaria, one of the
hardest workers for the show.

FINDING SPACE DIFFICULT

" Of course, the idea would have died at the
outset without a go-ahead from the director
of OMGB, Brig-Gen. Walter J. Muller. Gen.
Muller was an enthusiastic supporter, one
who — in the last analysis — arranged a
home for the show. With about one-third of
Munich’s building space destroyed by war,
and with much of the remainder occupied by
Army, Military Government and Bavarian
offices, finding suitable space was a headache
all its own.

The Haus der Kunst was a natural can-
didate. But its use would mean cutting out
some of Military Government’s recreational
facilities in Munich; it would also mean a
certain amount of repairing and redecorating.
Nevertheless, the one-time apple of Hitler’s
artistic eye was finally elected. On 25 May,
even as carpenters were still swinging ham-
mers, about 6,000 square feet of floor space

was stocked with toys and handicraft items,
and quietly opened to the public. It was a
preview of the show to come. Two months
later, four times as much floor space, some
25,000 square feet, was ready. This was fil-
led with a full range of Bavarian export
goods — from cameras to chinaware, from
jewelry to industrial machinery — and on
3 August, before a colorful audience of Ger-
man civilians and Military Government of-
ficials, the curtain rang up.

20,000 VISITORS DAILY

In the two months since that time, more
than 200,000 persons paid RM 2 each to see
the export exposition. They are still passing
through the doors at the rate of 20,000 a
week and the roster of visitors includes Fio-
rello H. LaGuardia, the ex-mayor of New
York and now director-General of UNRRA;
Senators Arthur H. Vandenburg and Tom
Connally; and Secretary of State James F.
Byrnes, who expressed surprise that the
German economy had recovered sufficiently
to put on such a show.

Byrnes’ surprise was no greater than that
of almost every German who visits the show.
They, too, are amazed by this display of
come-back power — and rather dazed by the
sight of so many scarce goods under one roof.
Their “Oh’s!” and “Ah’s!” are to be heard
at every turn; their wistful glances are to be
seen before every display.

MANY WOULD-BE BUYERS

Not a day passes but that scores of visitors
want to know where they can buy that pretty
ring, that tricky toy, that lovely set of china,
that wonderful bike with the one-cylinder
motor. But many of the exhibits represent
the only one of their kind. In many in-
stances, goldsmiths used their last bit of pre-
cious metals and manufacturers their last
supply of scarce goods — almost invariably
hoarded prior to the German surrender —
to show the world what they could do if
given the materials to work with.

Materials. That is one of the major. prob-
lems in reviving Germany’s export trade. All

(Continued on page 24)

--- Page 10 ---
designs for permanent stamps for
use in the British, Soviet and US Zones
of Germany have been approved by the Co-
ordinating Committee of the Allied Control
Authority to replace the various sectional
stamps and markings which have been in
use in Germany since the start of occupation.

The dignity of productive labor, the dawn-
ing of a new era for Germany and the re-
lease from despotic bondage provide the
motif for the five designs, selected from
among nearly 7,000 submitted in a Germany-
wide contest. The denominations in which
the various designs will be issued and the
colors to be used in each will be decided by
the appropriate quadripartite committees in
ihe near future. Nineteen denominations of
stamps are presently authorized.

The distribution of these stamps to the
German postoffices in the British, Soviet and
US Zones will have to wait the decisions and
instructions of these committees. The French
delegate on the Coordinating Committee ap-
proved the designs in principle but reserved
the right for his government to set the date
for implementation in the French Zone.

In order to understand the necessity for
a complete new set of stamp designs, it must
be remembered that all pre- VE Day German
stamps have been invalid since the Allied
armies moved into Germany in 1945. The
Potsdam Declaration specified that all traces
of Nazism and militarism be ruthlessly re-
moved from ‘every phase of German life.
Nazi propagandists realized in the postage
stamp one of the most effective means of
keeping leaders and ideas before the people.

NAZISM FORMERLY DEPICTED

A large number of stamps carried the heads
of Hitler, von Hindenburg, Kaiser Wilhelm
and other political leaders and militarists.
The swastika made its appearance on a large
percentage of all issues. Numerous special
stamp issues commemorated feats of German
arms and historical occasions related to the
rise of the Nazi Party. In carrying out the
Potsdam Declaration, it was imperative that
new stamps be introduced which would be
free of reference to the Nazi ideology of
German racial and military supremacy.

One of the first objectives of Military Gov-

DEUTSCHE POS

--- Page 11 ---
ernment was the rehabilitation and restora-
tion of essential civilian communications.
Nothing contributes more to the continuation
of chaos and the spread of damaging rumors
than inability to communicate with one’s
neighbors, friends and relatives. Since mail
is one of the most important media for com-
munication, it was imperative that this serv-
ice begin inmediately. A large number of
zonal Military Government stamps had ‘been
printed in the United States for use in the
US Zone of occupation. The first of these
stamps were introduced to the public in
Aachen in March 1945, several months prior
to the end of the war. With the end of the
war and the almost immediate restoration of
some of the postal services in the US Zone,
the supply proved insufficient to meet the
demand of the news-starved population. Dir-
ect payment of postage at postoffices was
necessary on a large percentage of mail. To
avoid purchase of stamps in blocks by col-
lectors and speculators, the German civilian
was required to present his correspondence
directly to the postoffice where stamps were
affixed and cancelled simultaneously.

PROCEDURE IN OTHER ZONES

Essentially the same procedure was used
in the British Zone, with the sale of zonal
stamps supplemented by direct payment of
postage at postoffice windows. In the French
Zone, the latter method was used exclusively
for several months before French zonal
stamps were introduced. In the Soviet. Zone,
the head of Hitler overprinted with the epi-
taph “Destroyer of Germany” adorned the
first stamps sold. Later several issues, each
representing one of the provinces, were
printed for use in the Soviet Zone.

Upon the formation of quadripartite gov-
ernmental machinery in 1945, a representative
committee for postal affairs was established
by the Allied Communications and Posts
Committee. This committee, known as the
Postal Sub-Committee, had as one of its first
and most urgent objectives, the selection of
permanent stamp designs for use throughout
Germany. Anticipating delay in final selec-

tions, and in order to provide for thterim
uniformity to facilitate postal technicalities,
the issue of a temporary uniform postage
stamp for use in the British, Soviet and US
Zones received quadripartite approval in Oc-
tober 1945. The French authorities approved
the issue of these stamps in principle, but
reserved use in their zone and continued the
sale of the French-designed zonal stamps.
Interim stamps which were printed at the
State Printing Office in Berlin were of simple
design — a large numeral indicating the
postage fee without symbolism. The first of
these stamps went on sale in the US Zone
at Frankfurt a/Main on 1 February 1946.

COMPETITION FOR DESIGNS

However, the problem of permanent
stamps still remained. To stimulate max-
imum interest and to afford the German
people the opportunity of originating their
own stamps, a contest was announced with
the winning artists to be rewarded with
prizes as well as the honor of designing
their country’s stamps. Artists in all zones
of occupation were eligible to participate,
provided that their past was untainted by
Nazi associations.

Rules of the contest permitted the submis-
sion of designs on the following themes:
(a) The liberation of Germany by the Allied
Powers; (b) the struggle of the great dem-
ocratic powers for the liberation of Ger-
many; (c) depictions of peace throughout the
world; (d) a plain design without symbolism.

CONTEST BEGAN IN DECEMBER 1945

The contest was officially opened 20 De-
cember 1945 and closed 30 January 1946.
Although only a few hundred entries were
anticipated, 6,715 designs were submitted by
3,611 artists from all parts of Germany. To
select the winning entries, a quadripartite
Stamp Jury was established composed of
postal specialists from each power. Major
Gordon C. Scheppler was the US member,
and Major Nicolas Pachin represented the
Soviet Union; W. S. Mason of the British
occupation authorities. and. M. L. Charles

(Continued on page 27) :

--- Page 12 ---
CENTRAL

PART 8

GERMA

GEO Ni Geb: BeS

since
paegiee

Li

TRANSPORTATION

he Central Administrative Depariment of

Transportation is responsible to the Allied
Control Authority for such coordination of
transportation matiers throughout Germany
as the objectives of Military Government
may demand and for the exercise of such
central powers and controls as the Allied
Control Authority may assign to it.

Until 1920, the German railroads were
operated by the larger German states:
Prussia, Bavaria, Saxonia, Wuerttemberg,
Baden, Mecklenburg and Oldenburg. The
waterways were almost wholly under control
of the various states until 1913. In that
year a Prussian law subjected certain water-
ways to the Reich for navigation and flood
control. Under the Empire, the highways
were left to the various states for construc-
tion and control.

In accordance with the provisions of the
‘Weimar constitution, the state railroads were
amalgamated in 1920 into the German
National Railroad and were administered
by the Reich Ministry of Transport. By the

terms of the Dawes Plan in 1924, the
operation of the network was entrusted to
the German National Railroad Company,
but the ownership of lines, facilities and
equipment remained in the hands of the
Reich. The Company was established as an
autonomous corporation. However, the
Ministry of Transport had the authority to
regulate rates, finances and services.

POSITION OF WATERWAYS

The Weimar constitution asserted the
powers of the Reich waterways over water-
ways of national importance. The treaty in
1921 between the Reich and the various
states listed the canals and streams which
were deemed Reich waterways and these
were placed under Reich authority for all
purposes. The sovereigniy of the Reich was
contested by the states, however, and in the
end the Reich Ministry of Transport was
obliged to work through the state govern-
ments. The road system continued to be a
function of the various states.

After the National Socialists came into

--- Page 13 ---
power, the autonomy of the Railroad Com-
pany soon became a formality. In 1937 the
National Railroad Company was dissolved
by law. The positions of Ministry of Trans-
port and Director General of the Company
were combined and the Ministry of Trans-
port reassumed management of the system,
which was again called German National
Railroad. The Third Reich by a series of
decrees succeeded in establishing its power
over the waterways and effectively centralized
the control of waterways affairs in the
Reich Ministry of Transport. The Ministry
of Transport has had complete control over
motor transportation since 1934, when it
replaced the numerous local and regional
authorities.

PROMOTED COORDINATION

Owing to this centralization, the govern-
ment was able to promote transport coordi-
nation, particularly by the elimination of
road and rail competition. The Ministry of
Transport controlled the motor transporta-
tion industry through compulsory trade as-
sociations organized into the Motor Trans-
portation Group. A central traffic manage-
ment was established in 1939 in Berlin to-
gether with a central traffic distribution office.
The office controlled the allocation of trade
through rail, water and highway trans-
portation, whichever it determined was most
suitable to the intended transportation.

The Central Administrative Department of
Transport will be concerned with rail, inland
water, highway transportation, ports and
coastal shipping, traffic and rates.

FUNCTIONS OF DEPARTMENT

The Central German Agency for Railroads
shall be largely a regulatory and administra-
tive agency to coordinate railroad operations
and international traffic problems without
exercising detailed control over actual
operations. It shall be responsible for the
preparation of the budget and for financing,
and for purchase of new equipment. It shall
control traffic movements which involve two
or more Oberbetriebsleitungen (OBL) or

10

international character.
It shall be responsible for operations only to
the extent required for, coordination between
two or more OBL or which require coordi-
nation with adjacent nations.

movements of an

The Central German Agency for Inland
‘Water shall be a regulatory and administra-
tive group to coordinate between the various
waterway regions and to deal with inter-
national questions, The central agency is
responsible for continuing the study of in-
land water economics, for planning new
structures, for maintenance of existing struct-
ures, and for the maintenance of channels.
It shall be responsible for the coordination of
inland water traffic where such movement
is between different water sheds and between
adjacent water divisions. It shall be re-
sponsible for the preparation of the budget
for all inland waterways of Germany and
for all necessary financing. It shall be
responsible for the provision of adequate
manpower and for the establishment of
proper labor relations between the various
employees and employers.

AGENCY FOR PORTS AND SHIPPING

The Central German Agency for Ports and
Coastal Shipping shall be largely a regula-
tory and administrative agency to insure
uniform regulations throughout all Germany.
The central agency is responsible for the
budget, for necessary financing, for main-
tenance of ports, and for the coordination of
traffic movement. The central agency shall
control the
licensing for
shipping.

The Central Germany Agency for High-
ways shall deal with traffic problems across
Jand boundaries and with international high-
way traffic.

standards for inspection and
vessels engaged in coastal

The Central German Agency for Rates
shall be responsible for the setting of
uniform traffic rates throughout Germany
for rail, inland water, coastal shipping and
highway traffic, and for the coordination
between these rates so as to provide econom-
ical transportation in accordance with the

--- Page 14 ---
POLICY

OPERATION

CENTRAL GERMAN ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
TRANSPORT DIRECTORATE ORGANIZATION

ALLIED CONTROL COUNCIL

Allied Control
Authority without preferential treatment.

policies laid down by ithe

The Central Germany Agency for Traffic
shall be responsible for allocating traffic for
rail, water, coastal shipping or highway
movement in accordance with policies laid
down by the Allied Control Authority.

A considerable number of related activities

It

AUTHORITIES

are to be excluded from the jurisdiction of
the Department.

Tt shall not exercise control over the rail-
road police. These police shall be retained
and controlled at the Reichsbahndirektionen
level. The Central Agency shall not inter-
fere with operations within the OBL except
for the appointment of the senior officer in

(Continued on page 26)

a i eS ee

er

I
TRANSPORT DIRECTORATE
1
STATE SEGRETARY
MANPOWER 8 FOR TRANSPORT UNDERSECRETARY
LABOR RELATIONS SRRSTAUT ETE SECRET FOR TRAFFIC
; FOR TRANSPORT
UNDERSECRETARY
on FOR RATES
! ]
UNDERSECRETARY
UNTERSEGRETARY LAND UNDERSEGRETARY
bares =] WATER TRANSPORT] ia FOR HIGHWAYS
rf ' '
ADVISORY ADVISORY ADVISORY
ADMINISTRATION = ADMINISTRATIVE le vA ADMINISTRATIVE
ORGANIZATION STAFF ‘STAFF
BUDGET & FINANCE =~ BUDGET A FINANCE = = BUDGET & FINANCE
TRAFFIC = TRAFFIC “ 4 TRAFFIC.
STATISTICS - WATER ECONOMICS = + STATISTICS
OPERATIONS =“ REGISTRY @ INSPECTION = Le IN @ CONTROL
CIVIL ENGINEERING = = STRUCTURES & MAINTENANCE — STRUCTURES & MAINTENANCE “—) {
MECHANICAL ENGR. = _] {
PURCH & STORES i
= — PAPE SA ey BORE Ree Gree, ger emmy meme perrny are aoecs) OS |
OBL SOVIET ZONE =™ RHINE REGION ea} en Ove oe a ALL LANDS OF
OBL BRITISH ZONE) |= eee Ween ae Laprgeh eae ait aad ALL LANDS OF
OBL FRENCH ZONE =~ ELBE REGION = ae Let ouiel aa ee ets OF
OBL U.S. ZONE ae BERLIN REGION a ROSTOGK CIVIL PORT | ALL LANDS OF
RB.D.s US. ZONE DANUBE REGION = = ALL OTHER CIVIL PORT

--- Page 15 ---
US ZONE INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
REACHED NEW PEAK DURING AUGUST

[dustrial production continued its upward
climb in the US Zone during August, ris-
ing five percent to approximately 34 percent
of estimated available capacity, but the out-
look for the months immediately ahead was
pictured as “not bright” in an announcement
of the Economics Division, OMGUS.

August was a month of gradually rising
production with increases in almost all of the
principal industries, including metals, chemi-
cals, coal mining, building materials, ma-
chinery and equipment, and consumer goods.
On the other hand, there were many com-
modities vital to the German economy whose
output has shown little change in the past
three months. Among these were agricul-
tural machinery, yarn, dyes, cyanamid, fur-
niture, spectacle lenses, flat glass, chemical
pulp and newsprint. The production of
leather shoes has also fallen off as a result
of the lack of leather.

The basic problem of channeling an ade-
quate and uniform flow of raw materials into
the economy of the US Zone has not yet been
solved. Meanwhile stockpiles of materials,
which alone have made it possible for some
industries. to sustain or increase their pro-
duction during’ the past few months, are
‘dwindling:

-INCREASED STEEL PRODUCTION

The rise over July, for’ industry as. a
‘whole, reflected monthly gains ranging to 21
percent in ingot steel, 37 percent in sulphuric
acid. 23 percent in steel rolling mill prod-
ducts, 40 percent in transport milk cans, 21
percent in bricks and 104 percent in light
tracks. Farm machinery: at 33 percent of
estimated 1949 capacity was unchanged in
August as compared to July.

The rise in August continited the unbroken
uptrend which has characterized industrial
production in the Zone since the’ beginning
of the year. In the threé months since May,
dlone, the average incréase iri the rate of in-

12

dustrial activity was estimated to have been
28 percent. Since manufacturing activity
was still at a very depressed level in May,
improvement since that time loomed large
on a percentage basis.

‘With the seasonal rise in generation since
early spring, industry was able to get along
with smaller quantities of fuel for power.
The mild spring and summer weather en-
couraged work attendance. Food rations
were reasonably well maintained. Trans-
portation improved steadily. Labor and plant
management became more familiar with their
jobs. The policy of assigning increasing re-
sponsibility to German officials has shown
results.

EXPORT REVIVAL PLANNED

During recent months also, the ground-
work has been laid for reviving the US Zone’s
export trade which is vital to the German
economy and which must make available the
foreign balances required for raw materials
and food.

The largest increases in industrial produc-
tion during the past three months have been
scored in those industries in which output
had fallen to its lowest ebb following the
end of the war. August production of light
trucks, household and decorative and tech-
nical porcelain were all about four times
their May levels.

The 20 percent cut in the Allene of
POL to the German economy, has immobilized
about half of the motor vehicles in Bav-

_aria and added to the difficulty of - getting

adequate transport for lumbering operations.
The shortage of coal necessitated a limited
allocation for domestic civilian consumption
this winter since steadily diminishing stocks
of hard coal made further withdrawals from
these stocks impracticable. Crude coal tar
was still so scarce in the US Zone that re-
quirements for repairing highways and sup-
plying coal tar derivatives for the chemical
industry could-not be met.

--- Page 16 ---
he first Allied barges to use the inland

waterway from Bremen io Berlin have
arrived in the Westhaven, Berlin-Ploetzen-
see. The convoy, consisting of an American
barge loaded with foodstuffs for the Berlin
population and three British barges loaded
with coal, is the first of a new transport sys-
tem which is expected to furnish Berlin with
an estimated 250 tons of goods a day. This
new system is the result of more than a
year’s work in clearing sunken bridges along
the route and represents the culmination of
an even greater period of tripartite (British,
Soviet and American) negotiations.

The opening of the new waterway makes
possible direct water communication and
transport between ports in the US and Ber-

lin. Goods are unloaded in Bremen directly
from ocean-going ships into the German-
manned barges which then proceed down
the Weser River into the Mittelland Kanal
from which they enter the Plaue and Havel
Rivers. They enter Berlin at the Spandau
Locks near Potsdam.

The new waterway system is another step
foward in the Military Government program
to reopen the inland waterways of Germany.
The reopening of the water route between
Bremen and Berlin will make possible a new
route for transporting supplies and materials
to Berlin for the use of both the German pop-
ulation and the forces of occupation and
will relieve the overburdened railways of
considerable bulk traffic.

Photo by PRO OMGUS

--- Page 17 ---
he pictures on these two pages show part of an average
day’s activity at Mittelschule 1, one of ten such schools in
the US Seetor of Berlin. Located in Steglitz, a middle ‘class
residential section, the school has approximately 600 students
ranging in age from 10 to 16. These children have previously
spent four years at a Volksschule and afier completion of the
mittelschule’s six grades will either transfer to a highschool,
study a trade or enter upon a career in the middle civil service

or as a commercial apprentice.

(Upper center) A group of boys watch as the teacher demonstrates the
functioning of a model motor; (upper right) a girl's class in home economics
receives instruction in needlework (lower left) a group of girls coming up
. the school building’s main staircase; (lower center) a botany class examines
the structure of plants; (lower right) a boy's class takes time out from

study to eat their noon-day meal. Photos by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
New German Identification

Card Effective for US Zone

The new German identification card, Deut-
sche Kennkarte, replacing all old forms of
official identification or registration, be-
comes effective 30 September in the US Zone
of Germany. Afier that date every German
more than eighteen years of age is required
to possess the Kennkarte and to present it
upon demand to any authorized official.

The card is dark grey in color, printed on
pliable waterproof paper, folding double to
a size of approximately 4 by 6 inches. The
face bears the card number, place of issue
and expiration date (five years after issue).
The inner portion of the card shows the in-
dividual’s photograph, fingerprints, personal
and identifying data, signature, and signa-
ture and seal of the issuing police authority.
The back of the card bears numbered spaces
which will be punched to indicate the offi-
cial decision of the tribunal which considers
the individual’s case under the Law for Lib-
eration from Nazism and Militarism.

In addition to being a police registration,
the Kennkarte serves as a positive identifi-
cation of the individual whenever needed. In
addition, it must be presented when obtain-
ing ration or quarters, transportation, travel
documents, or when changing residence.

* * .

Identity documents, now in use in the
British Zone, will be valid in the US Zone.

The document for persons less than fifteen
years of age is of light brown heavy paper,
folding in the middle to a size three and one
quarter by five inches. Printed on the face
of the British identity document appears the
words:
Personal Ausweis, Britische Zone, Fuer Per-
sonen unter fuentzehn Jahren (Personal Iden-
tity Card, British Zone, for Persons under
Fifteen Years. On the inside are spaces for
the person’s name, sex, address and changes

16

of address.

The British document for
than fifteen years of age is light green for-
gery-proof heavy paper, folding three times
to a size of three and one quarter by five
inches. On the face is printed Britische Zone,
Personal Ausweis. On the inside are spaces
for the person’s name, birthdate, birthplace,
sex, present address, signature and changes
of address. No photograph, fingerprint or
personal description is given.

These identity cards have replaced the
German Kennkarte in the British Zone. It is,
therefore, the only official identity document
for residents of that zone.

Factory Inspections

“ Recommendations on factory inspections
in the US Zone were recently issued for the
purpose of permitting the German authorities
to re-establish factory inspection as a part of
the Ministry of Labor functions. These rec-
ommendations, approved by the Manpower
Directorate of the Allied Control Authority
are concerned mostly with safety regulations
and working conditions.

DP Publishing Activities

As a result of certain publishing activities
by and for United Nations displaced persons,
USFET letter, “Displaced Persons Publish-
ing Activities,’ (AG 383.7 GEC-AGO, 9
Sept 46) directs that such publications be
controlled and conform to certain standards.

Freedom of press and of speech will be
encouraged subject to the necessity for main-
taining military security and preventing mil-
itaristic activities or propaganda.

Licensing of publications will be controlled
by the Office of the Director of Information
Control, OMGUS and publications will be
required to conform to certain specific stand-
ards. Such licensing will go into effect on
15 Oct. 46.

The new directive does not apply to UNR-

--- Page 20 ---
RA publishing school books, or to individual
assembly center or company or replacement
center bulletins and announcements of one
or two pages for which the assembly center
director or labor service company commander
is responsible and which will contain no
material of a political, international or con-
troversial nature.

Confiscated Nazi Documents

A limited number of confiscated Nazi docu-
ments may now be used in the interests of
research and scholarship if approved for
this use by the Zone Commanders or the
members of the Berlin Kommandatura.
This action is authorized in an amendment
to Control Council Order No. 4, which pro-
vides for the ‘confiscation of literature and
material of a Nazi-militarist nature.

The documents selected will be kept in
special safekeeping and will be used by
German scholars and other German persons
only with the permission and supervision of
the Allied Control Authority. Each Zone
Commander is responsible for giving full in-
formation concerning these documents to
the other members of the Council.

Increased Ration Scale

An increase in the ration to a scale based
on 1550 calories per day for the normal con-
sumer in the British and United States Zones,
to be effective on 14 October, was announced
from the Offices of the Deputy Military Gov-
ernors of the British and US Zones.

The increase, which had been contemplated
for some time, was prompted by the report
of the Fifth Nutritional Committee stating
that “the nutritional condition of German
civilians has deteriorated since the reduction
of rations in February and April 1946,” and
that this earlier reported deterioration “has
continued” among the people of the three
Western Zones of Germany.

The announcement stated that the favor-
able news concerning the shipping position
in the United States has permitted the de-

17

cision to be made to increase the rations for
the period, which begins on 14 October.

Personnel Changes

Lt. Col. Gordon Browning has been ap-
pointed Director, Office of Military Govern-
ment for Bremen Enclave (US). He suc-
ceeded Bion C. Welker, who has been trans-
ferred to the Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS.

Dr. Elizabeth Lam has been named Senior
Specialist for Girls’ Activities of the Edu-
cation and Religious Affairs Section, I. A. &
C. Division, OMGUS. Recently she was a
professor at Western Reserve University.

Assignments announced at USFET include
Col. Vernon E. Prichard as Deputy Assistant
Chief of Staff, G-3 Division, and Major Ruby
E, Herman as Deputy WAC Staff Director.

Jacob D. Beam has been appointed Special
Advisor of the Office of Personal Advisor to
the Deputy Military Governor on Denazi-
fication in addition to his other duties during
the temporary absence of Dr. Walter L. Dorn.
Mr. Beam is Special Assistant to the US Po-
litical Advisor.

Tripartite Engineering Group

A Tripartite Engineering Committee (TEC)
has been established by the United States,
Great Britain and France to provide for uni-
fied control and supervision of all engineering
and conservation work carried out by the
Germans on the Rhine River within Ger-
many. The TEC will be made up of one
technical representative from each of the
three zones.

The agreement creating the TEC also
provides for the organization of a German
Rhine Coordinating Directorate (GRDC) to
be composed of the directors of the Wasser-
strassendirektion in the US, British and
French Zones.

The TEC will supervise and control the
activities of the German Rhine Coordinating
Directorate in its work of reestablishing nor-
mal channel and navigation conditions. The
headquarters of both organizations will be
located initially at Eltville.

--- Page 21 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

Winter time will go into effect throughout
Germany on Sunday, 7 October. At 0300
hours, all clocks will be turned back one
hour to 0200 in accordance with an agree-
ment of the Allied Control Council.

MG has instructed the Laenderrat to make
necessary arrangements for examining, in-
specting and appraising inventories of certain
US Army scrap and waste installations for
the purpose of reporting on the amount, type
and location of scrap and waste available
for German economic use.

The US Zone is to provide 50,000 tons of
eating potatoes to the British Zone this fall
and the Soviet Zone is to supply 50,000 tons
of eating potatoes to the US Sector of Berlin.
An additional 20,000 tons for Berlin is be
supplied from Bavaria.

Clothing for the Berlin police is to be
supplied from the four zones at a ratio
equal to the proportion of population in their
respective sectors of Berlin. The ratios are:
Soviet, 37 percent; US, 30 percent; British,
20 percent; French, 13 percent.

RADIO AIDS EDUCATION PROGRAM

Radio Stuttgart’s schoolroom broadcasts, a
feature which will be extended to all other
stations in the US Zone to supplement the
critical shortage of textbooks, included such
topics as progress in elementary schools;
New York, largest city in the world; drama
on the life of Liszt, and the revolution of
1848 in Germany.

Three tons of smokeless powder from sal-
vaged German ammunition is being used in
manufacturing Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

Nearly 200 Chinese, who were in Germany
at the outbreak of the war, sailed from
Naples for Hong Kong and repatriation: In
the group were 120 men, 43 women and 33
children.

The new five-cent air mail postage rate
goes into effect 1 October. The reduction is

paint in

applicable to American military and civilian
personnel authorized to send and receive

18

mail through APO postoffices in the US
Zone.

To conserve fuel and to relieve strained
rail transportation facilities, reparations
equipment from the Daimler-Benz under-
ground aircraft engine plant at Necharelz,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, which had been previ-
ously allocated to the Soviet Union, is being
shipped for the first time by water transport
to Bremen for reloading on Soviet ships.

RAILROAD BRIDGES REPAIRED

Out of a total of 10,570 railroad bridges in
the US Zone, 10,501, or 99.3 percent, are
now in operation.

Shipments of 7,000 tons of sugar and
5,600 tons of molasses from the Soviet Zone
have been completed.

The fish catch at Wesermuende and Ve-
gesack during August was more than double
that of the preceding month and more than
three times that of August 1945.

Arrangements have been made in Mann-
heim, Wuerttemberg-Baden, where the cur-
few has been in effect, to issue to persons
arriving on trains during curfew hours temp-
orary passes enabling them to continue to
their homes.

Arson was suspected as the cause of three
major fires in Bavaria during the middle of
September. There were 18 fires in Bavaria
during the period, resulting in a total loss
of RM 689,000.

US ARMY TRUCKS RELEASED

Twenty two-and-one-half ton trucks and
10 eight-ton trailers have been released from
US Army stocks for German forestry opera-
tions.

Nearly 5,000,000 bottles of wine not of
export quality were released in September
for sale in the US Zone and for interzonal
trade.

Jt is planned to obtain 140 tons of sugar
for the wine industry in Greater Hesse by
releasing 70,000 bottles of champagne to the
Soviet Zone.

--- Page 22 ---
DEFENDANTS RECEIVED FAIR TRIAL

bia German people as a whole believe the
21 Nazi, military and political dictators
who guided Germany into her aggressive
war against the world and to her resulting
chaos received a fair trial before the bar of
justice at Nuremberg.

Almost eighty percent of the Germans
participating in a series of public opinion
polls consistently declared their belief in
the fairness of the International Military
Tribunal trials. The opinion never dropped
below 75 percent. Only four percent believed
the trials were not fair.

The reactions of the German populace to
the defendants, testimony and activities at
the trials were summarized by the Office
of Information Contnrol, OMGUS, with the
results of eight public survey polls made
between the time of the opening of the trials
last November and the retirement of the
judges early in September to consider the
verdicts.

The guilt of all the defendants was main-
tained by a conclusive majority of 70 per-
cent. Among the small number of the sam-
pled population who felt some of the de-
fendants were not guilty, Hess was named
most frequently — by five percent. Von
Papen and von Neurath were named by two
percent. Raeder, Doenitz, Keitel, Speer and
Schacht were each named by one percent or
less.

The guilt of the indicted organizations —
the Reich Cabinet, the Leadership Corps of
the Nazi Party, the SS, SA, Gestapo, the
General Staff and High Command of the
German armed forces — was accepted by a
somewhat smaller majority. Six out of every
ten persons interviewed indicated the in-
dictments of whole organizations were justi-

19

fied, while one quarter claimed that such in-
dictments were not justified and 15 percent
held no opinion.

The sampled group split sharply on the
question of whether all defendants would
receive the same punishment. Thirty-seven
percent indicated the punishment would be
the same for all, and most of these persons
thought the sentences would carry the death
penalty. Almost half of the sampled popula-
tion said the punishment would vary accord-
ing to the individual defendant.

Heavier punishment was expecied for
party leaders such as Goering, Streicher,
Ribbentrop, Kaltenbrunner, Sauckel, Rosen-
berg and Frank. Military and naval leaders
and the defendants von Papen, Schacht and
Fritzsche were expected to receive lighter
sentences. More persons expected Rudolph
Hess to receive lighter punishment than any
other defendant. ~

A survey made shortly after Goering had
testified in his own defense found 42 per-
cent of the Germans questioned admitting
they had not read enough of his testimony
to form any impression as to his defense.
However, 40 percent were not favorably
impressed and the remaining 18 percent ex-
pressed a favorable impression of Goering’s
explanation of his former deeds.

The series of surveys showed that a ma-

: jority of the readers found the newspaper

reports to be complete and trustworthy. In
only one instance did the proportion who
were satisfied with the newspaper reports
drop below 75 percent of the persons inter-
viewed. At the time the defense was present-
ing its evidence, 15 percent felt the news-
paper reports were not completely trust-
worthy. This was an increase of 10 percent

--- Page 23 ---
over the average for all other surveys in
this series.

During the progress of the trials as more
data on war crimes and individual guilt was
being unfolded, the German people admit-
ted in increasing numbers they had learned
something from the proceedings. Whereas
in the first poll 65 percent of the persons
interviewed spoke of learning for the first
time of happenings during the Nazi regime,
in later polls the percentage rose to 87 per-
cent. Correspondingly, the number who had
learned nothing from the proceedings drop-
ped from 33 percent to 11 percent.

The change in percentage between the first
survey and later surveys in the answers to
the question, “What did you learn?” is
shown in the following table:

First Second
About concentration camps 29 57
About German aggression

and early preparations 1
Of the activities of party leaders
Betrayal by their leaders
Much, knew nothing before 1
Other things
Annihilation of the Jews
Hitler and leaders were worse

than they thought — 3

It is interesting to note that 57 percent of
the German people indicated that they first
learned about the concentration camps
through the Nuremberg trials. As the trials
progressed and more information concerning
atrocities was released, 30 percent of the
persons interviewed said they first learned
about the annihilation of the Jews.

Oe OD DO
ao Ff © CO

30

Interest in the trial proceedings, however,
suffered a constant decline. The German pop-
ulation was naturally affected. by the in-

dictments, and a high degree of original in-

terest was to be expected. The defense of
the accused received, much attention at first.
But as the line of the defendants’ testimony
became evident, interest waned.

This conclusion was based on reader-inter-
est in newspaper articles concerning the
trials. The proportion of readers steadily
decreased from 82 percent to 67 percent,

20

and the degree of interest in these articles
declined from 62 percent to 36 percent. Like-
wise the number of persons who read the
articles all the way through dropped
from 64 percent to 51 percent and “partial
readers” increased from 35 percent to
48 percent.

Interviews Reveal Reaction
To Secretary Byrnes’ Speech

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) car-
ried several brief interviews with “the man
on the street” about the speech of Secretary
of State Byrnes in Stuttgart. Typical com-
ments were:

Housewife: “I don’t known anything about
politics but when my husband says it was
good for us in every respect, then that must
be right.”

Discharged soldier: “We heard plenty of
fine words even in Nazi Germany. The speech
was swell but I’ll be convinced by deeds.”

Construction worker: “You have to admit
a Nazi foreign minister wouldn’t have talked
like that to the conquered after a victory.”

Young girl: “I’ve always said the Ameri-

cans wanted the best for us.”
* * *

Walter Gong, who is making an outsand-
ing reputation among the German reporters
of the US Zone, presented an anti-war article
in the Frankenpost (Hof) on “American War
Reporting,” based on Fletcher Pratt’s “Ame-
rica’s Navy in the War.” Gong quoted: “It
was no battle. It was slaughter. It was ter-
rible — it was terrible — it was War. The
returning pilots described themselves as “car-
rion-vultures” and almost hated themselves
when they reported how two of the big ships
went down at the first attack and the water
was swarming with little men half a mile
around.” Gong asked: “Has anyone ever read

anything like this in a German war report?”
* * *

The licensed German press in the US Zone
continued to stress the reactions to Byrnes’
speech during the week 8—15 September,
according to the weekly newspaper analysis

--- Page 24 ---
of the Office of Information Control, OMGUS.
Follow-up editorials, world press reaction,
and comments on the speech by world states-
men were carried in all issues.

Most newspapers gave prominence to the
monthly report of the Military Governor,
especially his advocacy for German political
unity. Other top news stories included the
proceedings at the Paris Peace Conference,
the Attlee conference on Palestine and the
elections in the Soviet Zone. There was little
outstanding editorial comment during the
week.

Article Answers Critics of
Byrnes’ Stuttgart Address

In a long article the US licensed Tages-
spiegel in-Berlin declared that Secretary of
State Byrnes’ speech shows he follows
through on Roosevelts’ lines and applies
them.

In answer to the critics of the speech, the
paper pointed out that Byrnes demanded
almost nothing for America from Germany,
only that the peace of the world be assured.

Admitting that the measures put forth by
Byrnes contain many hardships, the paper
declared that they contain nothing which a
German wouldn’t level against the country
himself if he wanted to prevent a repetition
of her fate.

“The choice between a federal republic and
a ‘centralistic Reich’ is a choice between
peace and war, and is the only reason why
federalism is demanded,” declared the paper,
adding that those who bring up dismember-
ment in this respect confuse conceptions.

“The term ‘federalism’ would be senseless
if it wouldn’t include the necessity for union,”
pointed out the paper. “There can be no
discussion about the federalistic demand in
itself, only in the way it is carried through.”

Turning to Byrnes national council sug-
gestion the paper stated that “we have our-
selves always thought of a German national
parliament to which the federal government
will be responsible. As far as we see Byrnes’
plan does not exclude this because the ‘Natio-
nal Council’ shall draft a constitution.”

21

“The most important thing is that a cen-
tralizing of economic and judicial questions
must be balanced by a splitting of the
police and educational systems,” declared the

paper.

Rural Support for SED

The US licensed Tagesspiegel headed its
commentary on the Thuringia Elections:
“SED As An Agricultural Party,” pointing
out first that in the main cities the SED was
overtaken by the LDP.

In the opinion of the paper the strong
showing of the SED in the rural areas fol-
lowed through on the trend of the previous
week’s voting in Saxony.

“The Socialist Unity Party appears more
and more to be an agricultural party,” con-
tended the paper, pointing out that in almost
all cities the party was unable to gain the
absolute majority.

Observing that in the rural areas the bour-
geoise parties were unable to run their lists
everywhere, the paper declared that to some
extent this explained the showing of the SED
in these districts.

In conclusion the paper declared that no
matter how one regards the election “the fact
remains that the Socialist Unity Party seems
to have more supporters in the country that
in the cities, which is a rather remarkable
change .. .”

* * *

“The Second Defeat,” was the title placed
over a post-election commentary in the Tele-
graf by Editor Scholz.

The votes cast for the SED made such a
strong showing only because the CDU and
LDP in the rural areas were not able to run
local organizations everywhere,” declared
Scholz, quoting figures to back up his claim.

“The headlines in the SED press are ab-
solutely misleading, in the face of the facts,”
continues Scholz, claiming that the bour-
geoise parties had the majority in the larger
communities.

In view of this fact, declares Scholz, the
SED can hardly speak of a new victory in
Thuringia.

--- Page 25 ---
U nited States’ foreign policy is unchanged
and has the full support of the American
people, newspaper editorials and radio com-
mentators made clear in their comment on
Secretary of Commerce Wallace’s much dis-
cussed speech in New York recently. News-
paper editorials for the most part were
strongly critical of Wallace’s views which
were widely interpreted as differing in some
respects from the administration’s policy.
Since making the speech, Wallace has re-
signed from the Cabinet.

By disapproval of Wallace’s remarks, and
by substantial praise of Secretary of State
Byrnes’ work, commentators voiced support
for the firm, bi-partisan US aim of seeking
world peace through the United Nations’
Charter principles and the fulfilment of
Yalta, Potsdam and other major power
agreements.

Many commentators censured Wallace’s
advocacy of “spheres of influence” and his
implied thesis for a “soft” attitude towards
the Soviet Union. Some criticized the Com-
merce Secretary on the grounds he sought to
inject foreign policy as an “issue” in the
current domestic election campaign.

The New York Herald Tribune called
Wallace’s formula “sheer fantasy.”

The Philadelphia Record declared “the
nation was — and is — united on foreign
policy.”

Louisville Courier-Journal: “By every re-
liable indication, Secretary Byrnes enjoys
the strong support of his countrymen . . .
what Mr. Wallace proposes in essence is the
division of the earth between two rival im-
perialisms . . . this is contrary to the whole
concept for which Franklin D. Roosevelt la-
bored and died.”

G. R. Baukhage, radio network commen-

WALEACE’S FOREIGN, POLICY SPEECH

tator, said: “The thing to remember is that
the American foreign policy is not intended
to be anti-Russian or anti-British or anti-any-
thing . . . There is only one foreign pol-
icy . . . it is the one expressed by the Amer-
ican people through the ‘Secretary of State.
as head of the State Department, and by
both Democratic and Republican Parties as
expressed through their respective represen-
tatives, (Senators) Connally and Vanden-
berg.”

The U. S. News Magazine editorial by
David Lawrence, which described Wallace as
“sincere but misguided,” said: “The Amer-
ican foreign policy since V-J Day has been
a consistent effort, supported by both polit-
ical parties and the American people, to
banish the idea of ‘spheres of influence’ and
to avoid if possible ‘two worlds’ in which
Russia would be left to dominate a vast area
of the earth’s surface. That effort has been
carried out by the Secretary (Byrnes) in the
finest American tradition.”

The Washington Star voiced a hope that
the vital question of foreign relations will
not again “become a football to be kicked
around by vote-seeking politicians on both
sides of the political fence.” The editorial
frowned on attempts “to put the skids under
that eminently desirable bi-partisan stand.”

Radio commentator Cecil Brown said:
“What has to be remembered is this. . . that
the rest of the world never forgets for an
instant that we are united on a foreign pro-
gram, that the Republicans and Democrats
are working together and that we are in the
affairs of the world up to our necks and
intend to stay there.” \

The Philadelphia Inquirer: “The people of
this country should be resolved, as never
before . . . while striving for friendship with

--- Page 26 ---
all peoples, to stand firmly against breeding
‘balances of power,’ ‘sphere of influence’ and
attempts by any powerful nation to make
capital out of smaller nations’ territories,
rights and liberties.” The Inquirer said the
US foreign policy “must not be pro-British.
Neither shall it be pro-Russian. It can be
pro-American and nothing else . . . it must
and will be the program of a united nation.”

The Philadelphia Record said: “Byrnes is
on the firing line at Paris. He is doing his
best for his country and for world peace. . .
he has been tactful yet firm, tolerant yet un-
comprising on principles . . . Byrnes’ policy
has been ‘be firm’ rather than ‘get tough’.
Byrnes has not been anti-Russian — but pro-
peace, pro-United Nations, pro-Atlantic
Charter.”

Discussion of Byrnes’ Speech

Continues in American Press

The conclusion that Secretary of State
Byrnes gave the world an exposition of
American policy for Germany — “that every
man can plainly understand” was emphasized
in continuing US newspaper comment.

The editorials generally agreed that the
fate of Germany is a matter of prime concern
to every nation. Many expressed the view
that it is now up to Soviet Union to accept
or reject the program designed to avert dan-
ger of Germany becoming “a pawn or part-
ner in a military struggle for power between
the East and the West.”

The Atlanta Constitution said Byrnes’
speech “‘was in a sense, a direct answer to
the July 10 statement on Germany by Soviet
“Foreign Minister Molotov, a declaration of
Russian policy, exploited by Communist
leaders throughout the occupied areas.

“Molotov had said that while Germany
could rightfully aspire to a return to self-
government, such a move was many years
off. Byrnes, on the other hand, indicated the
time’ might be near at hand when a pro-
visional German government can be estab-
lished . . .

“Increasingly it has become apparent that
the divided occupation of Germany makes
for conflict and inefficiency ... Positive,
aggressive democracy has given its reply
to Communism. Certainly we do not always
agree. But at least, at this time, no one can
say there is any reason for either misunder-
standing the other.”

The Minneapolis Tribune: “That speech
clearly was an announcement . . . that this
nation is sick and tired of the game of high
pressure politics which is being played for
the control of Europe, with Germany as the
principal pawn...

“The proposal is a single one. It is simple
enough for the people of Germany to under-
stand. Certainly it is simple énough for the
Russians to understand. It is a middle
ground proposal which if accepted. would
work to advantage of all parties... If
Russia is genuinely interested in world
peace and democratic government, this pro-
posal must be accepted. Failure to accept it
will leave the United States with no choice —
but to conclude that Russia wants a Germany
unified on Russian terms and none other...
under domination of Russia.”

The St. Paul (Minn.) Pioneer-Press: “Sec-
retary Byrnes . . . gave the world a badly
needed exposition of American policy for
Germany ... Now that the air has been
cleared, the way finally is open for the major
powers to come to grips with vital problem
of Germany’s future.

“Such a clear and resolute stand, adhered
to constantly, may not of itself be enough to
assure success, but it is the most likely way
to encourage the Kremlin to join us in say-
ing, as the Secretary did at Stuttgart, “we
intend to support the United Nations Organiz-
ation with all the power and resources we
possess.’ ”

In terming his address as “firm, forthright,
strong .... yet not truculent or provocative,”
the Birmingham News said: “He makes the
choice for Russia and the world very plain
indeed.”

--- Page 27 ---
SHOWCASE OF BAVARIA (Continued from page 6)

of the firms represented at the exposition
have the machinery and manpower to work
with; but many of them do not have enough
raw materials. The chinaware industry needs
brown coal and kaolin. The jewelry industry
needs gold and silver. The building industry
needs copper wire and sanitary ware. The
textile industry needs cotton and wool.

DOLLAR CREDITS NECESSARY

Aside from the scarcity of materials, there
is another reason why visitors to the show
cannot exchange their marks for the goods
on display. The ingenuity, planning and
hard work connected with the show have
been invested with one thought in mind —
exports, exports to countries that can pay in
dollars. Dollar credits will make it possible
for Germany to buy the raw materials and
food she needs to keep her from economic
bankruptcy. Signs posted at vantage points
in the exposition beseech the people to under-
stand that the things they see cannot be
" purchased in Germany, for the present at
least. They are destined for export, the
notices say, “so that you and your family
will have something to eat”.

‘Exporting is a problem all its own. With
no stated value at which marks can: be ex-
changed for dollars, it is difficult enough to
arrange a sale of German hops (as has been
done), a commodity whose current price can
quickly be ascertained by checking world
markets. It is infinitely more difficult to ar-
range for the export sale of breakfast dishes,
say, whose price varies from country to
country, from city to city, from store to
store.

SELLING AGENT FOR US

Lack of a foreign exchange rate for the
mark is one export problem among many
that is likely to persist for an indefinite
period. As an expedient, meanwhile, OMG-
US recently made arrangements for the US
Commercial Company, a subsidiary of the
Reconstruction Finance Corp., to act as sel-
ling agent for German-made merchandise in

24

the United States. Among other things, US-
CC will handle pricing of products to buyers.
This necessarily will be done on an individual
basis; each transaction will be negotiated sep-
arately. During July, OMGUS’ Trade and
Commerce Branch air-expressed samples of
toys and handicraft items to USCC. The idea
is to cash in on the Christmas trade, which
promises to attain record high volume in the
States this year.

Other obstacles to export trade within
Germany itself are now being cleared away.
A four-power agreement permitting non-
transactional mail — exchanging of commer-
cial information up to the point of signing
of a contract — is almost through the quadri-
partite mill. (Previously, a prospective buyer
was not permitted to negotiate with a Ger-
man manufacturer through the mails.) The
Office of Military Government for Bavaria
has just set up a Visitors’ Bureau to provide
billets, messing facilities, and automobile
transportation for travelling businessmen.

ADVISORY GROUPS FROM INDUSTRY

OMGB has also established an advisory
committee from each Bavarian industry to
make its headquarters in Munich. In con-
Junction with military government and Ger-
man Officials, the several committees will rec-
ommend ways and means of stimulating ex-
ports; the committees will also act as a con-
tact point between prospective buyer and
Bavarian manufacturer.

So far, the show at Munich has been pretty
much a promise for the future. True, there
have been visitors from all parts of the
world, and definite buying interest has been
shown in chinaware, leather goods, textile
products, portable houses, and so on. A
Chinese from the British Zone, representing
a Shanghai firm, dropped in one day and
wanted to buy 20,000 one-cylinder motors.
(The manufacturer claims it will run 100 km.
on one liter of gasoline.) But it is not yet
possible to close such deals in a conventional
way. There are still some loose ends to gather

--- Page 28 ---
in before sales at the export exposition can

be consummated with dispatch. Meanwhile,

this and other requests are being referred to
the appropriate branch of OMGUS in Berlin
for action.

That “promise for the future” is already
looming large. Buying representatives from
at least 30 merchandising organizations have
requested permission to enter Germany and
visit the Export Show. Included among
these are W. T. Grant & Co.; Gimbel Bros.,
Inc.; Montgomery, Ward & Co.; Marshall
Field, Inc.; and Associated Merchandise
Corp., representing department stores such
as Woodward & Lothrop in Washington,
D.C., and Filene’s in Boston. Several of
these buyers are expected to arrive in Mu-
nich soon.

CERAMICS PROGRAM INCOMPLETE

The final touches have not been put on
the export program for ceramics. Twenty-
three topflight producers of porcelain and
chinaware — including such world-renowed
names as Rosenthal, Nymphenburg and Hut-
schenreuther—have been selected to partic-
ipate. OMGUS representatives have ob-
tained an increased supply of coal, essential
for operating the industry at a higher level
(it is now running at about 25 percent of
estimated capacity). OMGUS has also ear-
marked dollars with which to purchase kao-
lin, a special kind of clay available in
Czechoslovakia; kaolin imparts the very
hard, very white, and generally handsome
finish that is a hallmark of quality china.
Samples of china and porcelain — 33 cases
of them — are now en route to the US
Commercial Co.

FASHION SHOW PRESENTEND

Tens of thousands of persons who couldn’t
possibly travel to Munich may eventually
have an opportunity to see one of the hits
of the exposition — the fashion show. Pre-
sented four times weekly in the textile ex-
hibit’s auditorium, the fashion show packs
the auditorium’s 350 seats and is forced to
turn away an average of 150 persons every
performance. There is an orchestra, a master

25

of ceremonies, a regular runway, and a dozen
young ladies who model almost 100 different
costumes, from sport clothes to evening
dresses. Germany has never been known as
a leader in the fashion field; export hopes
center around sophisticated versions of tra-
ditional Bavarian clothing — dirndl dresses,
ski clothes, and peasant sweaters and
costumes. But it is the first real fashion
show the Germans have seen in seven years
and they love it. Later this year, a stream-
lined version of the fashion show may tour
the British and US Zones, performing at
Stuttgart, Wiesbaden, Frankfurt, Hamburg
and Bremen. :

Germany will be hearing more, a great
deal more, about the Export Show. The ex-
position now running in the Haus der Kunst
is only a starter. Even now, the Office of
Military Government for Bavaria, together
with the Bavarian Ministry of Economics, is
restoring the partly-damaged Munich Fair
Grounds at an_ estimated cost of
RM 2,000,000. The money is coming from
admissions to the current show, including
admissions to the Export Village with its
prefabricated houses.

FUTURE PLANS FOR EXHIBIT

By next spring, if all goes acording to
schedule, the Export Show will move to the
more spacious Fair Grounds. Longer-range
plans for the show include provision for a
350-room hotel with every convenience for
prospective buyers from outside Germany —
restaurant; Post Exchange; library; confer-
ence rooms; transportation office; telephone,
cable, and radio-communication facilities;
typing, stenographic, and interpreting serv-
ice. The idea is to build Munich into a US
Zone super-center for export trade.

The Bavarian Export Show is at once a
confession and a challenge. Through it, Ba-
varia reminds the world that Germany is
poor in raw materials but rich in human re-
sources; through it, Bavaria tells the world.
“Give us raw materials and we will show
you what industriousness and ingenuity can
accomplish toward rebuilding a . peaceful
Germany!”

--- Page 29 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN AGENCIES (Continued from page 11)

the OBL.

It shall have no control over warehouse or
port installations. The ownership and opera-
tion of these functions shall remain with the
municipalities. The Central Agency shall
have no control over the water police. The
control of the water police shall be with
' each waterway region.

It shall not exercise control over port in-
stallations and warehouses. These matters are
reserved to the local port authorities. The
actual operation of the ports and coastal
shipping shall be with the local civil port
authorities at each port.

It shall have no control over construction
and maintenance of the various highways.
This function is reserved to the various
Laender.

It shall not interfere with traffic move-
ments within a single OBL, water region
or Land.

The Transport Department will be respon-
sible to the Allied Control Authority through
the Transport Directorate. The Directorate
will exercise a broad, general policy review
on all matters except budget, finances, new
construction and rate structures. These four
items will be subject to detailed supervision
by the Directorate and shall be submitted to
the Directorate before being placed in effect.
Complete operating statistics shall be main-
tained and submitted periodically to the
Directorate.

RESPONSIBLE TO DIRECTORATE

The head of the Department shall be
State Secretary. for Transport immediately
responsible to the Directorate. He shall have
responsibility for his subordinates, an as-
sistant state secretary of transport and six
under secretaries for rail, inland water, ports
and coastal shipping, highways, traffic and
rates.

The office of each under secretariat shall
be divided into sections. Each section will
be headed by-a chief advisory official. These
sections serve as advisory bodies and as col-

lectors of information for the under secre-
taries and prepare papers on operating mat-
ters for signature by the under secretary.

The Land shall have responsibility for the
maintenance of tracks and the right of way:

The general supervision of port facilities
owned by the local municipality is the func-
tion of Land government. The utilization of
inland water barge capacity allocated for
traffic within the Land shall be under the
supervision of Land authorities. The Land
will have no other functions with regard to
inland water transport.

OPERATION OF PORTS

The operation of ports and coastal ship-
ping shall be done through the local civil port
authorities, who operate in cooperation with
the Burgomaster at the port. As such, they
come under the general authority of the gov-
ernment of the Land within which the
port lies.

The construction and maintenance of high-
ways and the installation of safety measures
thereon is a Land function. The control of
traffic lying entirely within a single Land is
the function of Land government. The Cen-
tral German Highway Transport Office will
inform each Land of the anticipated volume
of movements to that Land from adjacent
ones.

The persons named as State Secretary and
as his assistant. must have extensive expe-
rience in administrative and executive mat-
ters. Positions shall be filled through ap-
pointment by the Transport Directorate of
the Allied Control Council and incumbents
will serve during their pleasure.

The position of under secretary calls for
a man with a broad background in the par-
ticular field of transportation to which as-
signed and with considerable experience in
administrative and executive matters. These
positions are to be filled by appointment by
the State Secretary for Transport, subject to
confirmation by the Transport Directorate of
the Allied Control Council and are subject

--- Page 30 ---
to removal by either the appointing or con-
firming authority.

The positions of chief advisory officials
call for men of considerable experience in the
field of their specialty. They must have had
considerable practical experience and also a
capacity for administration. These positions
are to be filled by appointment by the top
official under whom they serve in an ad-
visory capacity and are subject to removal
by him. Other than top management posi-
tions shall be filled through Civil Service
examination. It is estimated that 180 persons
will be required.

The headquarters should be located in
Berlin which has adequate communication
facilities and will permit closer liaison with
the Allied Control Authority.

18,000 square feet of good office space is

required. No special types of equipment are
required except statistical machines, adding
machines, mimeographs, plan reproduction
machines and photostat machines and tele-
type equipment. Several Reich properties
are available.

The expenses of the Central Department
should be budgeted against and paid from
general revenues available to the Central
Agencies.

It is realized that the Reichsbahn is a
revenue producer. However, the personnel
should be made to feel that they are working
for Germany as a whole and for the whole
transport system not for any particular
branch of transport. They should not be
paid from receipts of the transport system.
Any return above the operating budget should
go to the general treasury fund or be made
available for reparations.

NEW STAMPS FOR GERMANY (Continued from page 8)

Burtz of the French Government completed
the jury. Each representative was assisted
by a political adviser to judge the political
acceptability of the various designs and an
artistic adviser to judge the qualities from
an artistic point of view.

The Stamp Jury began its complex job
of reviewing the several thousand entries on
29 March and on 11 May reached unanimous
agreement on the five winning designs. De-
signs were rated as to order of relative merit
by vote of the judges, who devised a point
system for this purpose. Many colorful and
ingenius drawings were rejected for political
undesirability, some because of poor artistic
technique and still others because they were
impractical from a postal point of view. The
designs which received final approval were
adjudged the best entries combining all de-
sirable qualities. Recommendations for prizes
have been prepared by the Postal Sub-Com-
mittee and will be officially announced upon
approval of the Directorate of Internal Af-
fairs and Communications.

The winning artists: Gerd Barach of Ber-
lin-Neukélin (US Sector of Berlin) won first
prize for his entry depicting two workers,

a man with a trowel in his outstretched hand
and a woman carrying a sheaf of grain.

A tie resulted in the second and third se-
lections: H. W. Hoepfner of Hannover-Kirch-
rode (British Zone) for his design showing
a pair of upstretched hands, broken shackles
falling away, releasing the white dove of
peace with a small sprig of olive in its beak;
and Joseph Rogmann of Beierfeld, Erz-
gebirge (Soviet Zone) for his entry showing
a worker leaving his house to begin his day
of labor, a large hammer carried over his
shoulder.

Fourth place went to the design of Lud-
wig Brand of Kempten-Allgau (US Zone),
portraying the beginning of a new day. A
farmer is kneeling in fresh soil in the act
of planting a small plant, presumably an
olive tree. A shovel is standing in the ground
by his side and the sunrise is shown in the
background.

A drawing by Heinz Luckenbach of Wal-
sum, Niederrhein (British Zone) won fifth
prize. His entry shows a farmer sowing
grain in a new field; his farmhouse is in the
background and the sun is rising in the
early morning.

--- Page 31 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Continued from page 2)

Selection of Sites for Foreign Service Officer Examinations .

Report of Personnel to. Whom Subsistence is Sold .

Photographic Equipment .

Reciprocal Agreement on Purchase of Services, Supplies and Facilities,
US/British . 5 oo0505

War Department’ Circular No. 173 .

Bulk Allotment Personnel Report

Emergency Return of Dependents

Civilian Uniform Regulations .

Amendment to Control Council Order No. 4. .
Confinement of Personnel Awaiting Trial .
New Domestic Air Mail Rate

Location of CROWCASS .

Subsistence and Army Exchange Service Items in Hands of German
Civilians 5 ooOodo Gao

Return of Dependents’ Household Goods fo the United States .
Payment of Family Allowances (Class F) to Enlisted Mens’ Dependents

Residing in US Occupied Zone, European Theater .

Interpretation of the 22° Minimum in the Valuation of Advanced
Deliveries on Account of Reparations, CORC/P (46) 172 3rd Revise

Debiting of Blocked Accounts for Bank Service Charges .

Advance Copy of Amendments to Part 1, “Price Control,” Title 13,
“Trade and Commerce,” Military Government Regulations

Reopening of Administrative Courts in the US Zone

Availability of US Applicants for Employment (Issue No. 2)

Change to Winter Time in Germany, CORC/P(46)288 (As amended by
the Coordinating Committee at its 75th Meeting on 7 September 46)

AG 201.5 INE-AGO
10 Sept 1946, USFET

AG .430 RMJ-AGO

10 Sept 1946, USFET

AG. 413.53. GCT-AGO
10 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 400 GDS-AGO
10 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 400.34. GCT-AGO
11 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 220.3 GCT-AGO
11 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGO

‘12 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular Nr. 129
13 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 007 (SS)

- 13 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 250.3 PMG-AGO
13 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 311.1 AGM-AGO
13 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 322 AGA-AGO
13 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 430.2 GEC-AGO
14 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 414 GDS-AGO
14 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 243 FDD-AGO
14 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 386.1 (ED)
16 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 100 (FD)

17 Sept 1946, OMGUS
AG 010.6 (ED)

17 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 015 (SS)
17 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 201.62
21 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 003 (TD)
21 Sept 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

28