--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 70 / 2 DECEMBER 1946

; vith, ag PORE ee a cgaen 3 rod :
POLISH REPATRIATES mn / y=
- 8 ~~ - | 2 Fa

Oa Bs ie A

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
WALDECK

FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-.
a MARBURG
ae LAUTERBACH
FRIEDBERG
E MODINGEN eS j

FRANKENBERG

ROTEN BURG

OBER &
LAHNKREIS

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD’
BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

OFSHEIM

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

x

WEERLY

La ! \

ay

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Leaves, and Passes and Travel in the European Theater

Payment of Personnel in Labor Service Companies

and Truck) .

Assistance from US Military Sources to Civilian Agencies and Personnel

Traffic in Firearms

Law Amending Article 204 ot the Code of Civil Procedure
Flowers for Oversea Graves

Repeal of Certain Statutory Provisions Relating to Succession

Reassignment of Officers

Issue of Ordinance Vehicles from Theater Reserve
Increase in Price of Seed) Potatoes .
Limitation of the Technical Characteristics of German Pleasure Craft,

CORC/P (46)350 Final .

Interzonal Travel of German Civilians .

(Civilian) (Guard

Circular No. 162
4 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 248 GDS-AGO
5 Nov 1946, USFET

Circular No. 165
8 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 474 GAP-AGO
13 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 010 (LD)
13 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 687 GAP-AGO
14 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 010 (LD)
15 Nov 1946, OMGUS

Circular No. 168
15 Nov 1946, USFET

Circular No. 167
15 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 430.2 (ED)

18, Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 311.18 (NA)
18 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 200.4 (IA).

” 19 Nov 1946, QMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Weaver

POLISH REPATRIATES — The picture on this
week's cover shows the interior of a box caron
a train carrying displaced persons from Kron-
bach to their homes in Poland. Each returnee
is allotted 60 day rations, primarily tinned and
dehydrated staples, to start life anew when he
reaches his homeland.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

World in Film was prepared bythe Information
Control Division, OMG for Bavaria. It is the
story of the German newsreel, ‘Welt im Film,”
which is jointly produced by US and British
information control officials.

The material for Water Police was furnished
by the Water Transport Branch, Transport Divi-
sion, OMGUS. The article describes the progress
which MG has made in organizing water inspect-
ion and security units.

Karl A. Shafer, Chief of the Population and
Survey Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, prepared the article, Population
Census. Before serving in the Army as 2
personnel procedures officer, Mr. Shafer worked
as a population expert for the US Department
of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Water Police
World in Film
Population Census
Political Apathy
Violin. Makers

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
STATION LIST

PAGE

11
14

16
19
21
24

--- Page 7 ---
WATER-P-O

Wi the clearing of German inland

water channels, and the consequent
resumption of navigation, it became neces-
sary to create a vessel inspection and security
service to function with respect to German
internal waterways within the US. Zone.
After a thorough study of the problems,

&

OMGUS officials activated. an organization
on 4 September 1945, to carry out these du-
ties. The water police responsibilities, former-
ly under the Public Safety Branch, IA&C
Division, were transferred’ to the Water
Transport Branch, Transport Division. The
initial phases of German organization were
accomplished and competent Germans were
selected for the key positions. The respon-
sibility for accomplishment of the mission
was then placed upon this experienced Ger-

A water police boat patrol-
ling the harbor at Bremen.

--- Page 8 ---
Members of the water police force
at work in the Bremen station.

man personnel. The German organization as
finally established consisted of a Chief In-
spector for the US Zone and a Deputy Chief
Inspector in charge of the Divisions. On the
District level, a dual organization was form-
ed with a Chief Inspector in charge of In-
spection and Registry duties, and a patrol
officer in charge of security.

Tasks that had been formerly carried out
by the Wasserschutzpolizei (Water Protec-
tion Police) and a dozen or so other German
agencies were now combined under one
authority. As it was desirable to employ as
many experienced former water police
members and employees of other branches of
inland shipping as possible, all candidates
had to be cleared completely of all Nazi or
other unworthy affiliations before being ac-
cepted. It was decided that during the initial
stages US military personnel would be as-
signed to patrol craft and land missions to
work in harmony with the German police,
but not to participate in the enforcement
procedure of the police unless called upon
for assistance.

Inspection and Security is charged with
policy enforcement supervision of all safety
measures and regulations aboard inland
waterways and seagoing vessels, including

gauging, admeasurement, and registration of
all vessels within the US Zone and the Bre-
men Enclave. It is also responsible for. the
policy control of all documents and papers
pertaining to the vessels and their crews,
such as deck and engineer officers licenses,
navigation permits, crew lists, and inland
seamen’s certificates of identification and
service.

RESPONSIBILITIES DEFINED

The German Chief Inspector of the Zone
is responsible for all of the functions of the
organization throughout the Zone and in the
Bremen Enclave. The Deputy Chiefs are in
charge of inspection and security within each
of their divisions or sectors, of which there
are four: The Rhine-Main Sector with head-
quarters at Schierstein Frankfurt, the Rhine-
Neckar Sector at Mannheim, the Danube
Sector at Regensburg, and the Bremen En-
clave. There is a total of 24 districts or
stations, the smallest divisions of the organ-
ization. Each district has a number of as-
sistant inspectors who are responsible to the
district inspector. The district security of-
ficer is aided by a patrol sergeant and patrol-
men, all of whom must prove a minimum of
two year’s service in German commercial

(Continued on page 22)

--- Page 9 ---
(Left) Photographers atop
a camera van film an
event for “Welt im Film.”

he German movie-goer buys his ticket

at the box office of the neighborhood
“kino” (price, one mark), gropes for an
empty seat in the darkened theater, and
finally settles back. The seat is comfortable,
but he is careful to keep on his overcoat for
the theaters are generally unheated or at
most the heat is limited. For two hours he
will be able to glimpse another world, one
of ideas and places and persons and ways
of life from which he has been cut off for
twelve years. ;

In addition to the feature film and per-
haps a live variety show, he can hear in a
newsreel a speech by Secretary of State
Byrnes, freely discussing world topics of the
day and in particular the future of Ger-
many, and speeches by other international
figures discussing important world events.
He will see parts of an international sports

meet in Oslo with British, Russians, Scan-
dinavians and other nationalities participat-
ing side by side. He will get a vivid picture
of what a home, university, theater, or Con-
gressional session in America is like.

The film vehicle which affords this view
of another world is the series of newsreels
known as Welt im Film; (The World in
Film), produced jointly-under the super-
vision of the Film, Theater, and Music
Control Branch of the Office of the Director
of Information Control, OMGUS, and. its
opposite, the Films Branch of the Public
Relations / Information . Services Control
Group, British Control Commission for Ger-
many. At present, Welt im Film ex-
changes its. material with the American
newsreels, the British newsreel pool, five
French newsreels and an official Polish one,
providing international coverage. Policy

--- Page 10 ---
control is vested in a joint control board
in’ Berlin. The central production office in
Munich which is under ICD, OMG for Ba-
varia, is headed by an American managing
editor and a British make-up editor.

The newsreel mintains assignment desks
and camera teams in Munich, Berlin, Vienna,
Salzburg, Frankfurt, Duesseldorf, Hamburg,
and Bremen. At the central office in Munich
their work is consolidated, the film is pro-
cessed in the laboratories and the stories
are edited. Finally, the commentaries are
written, the music and special effects added,
and the final result is printed and sent to
the distributing centers in the American
and British Zones of Germany and Austria,
and in Berlin and Vienna.

Welt im Film has issued 77 numbers to
date. In this time it has covered practical-
ly every story of importance in Germany
and Austria. It has given a complete picture
of the Nuremberg irials from start to finish,
the War Crimes Commission trials at Dach-
au, the Stuttgart speech by Secretary of

State Byrnes, and the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of occupied lands, as well as
visits of American and Allied dignitaries,
stories on the work of Military Government,
UNRRA, and the Red Cross, and the efforts
of the German-Austrian peoples to put
themselves back on a normal basis. The
newsreel has also to its credit the two-reel
picture, Todesmuehlen (Mills of Death), a
documentary about the concentration camps
which has had a decided impact on Ger-
man audiences.

DEVELOPMENT OF UNITED NEWSREEL

This series is the development of the old
United Newsreel, produced in London dur-
ing the war by the Office of War Infor-
mation. It had been issued in many languages:
French, Dutch, Norwegian, Italian, and
others. When the reels began to follow
our troops onto the continent and direct
contact was made with the German people,
the new situation called for an enlargement
of the project. The OWI and the Political

(Below) Members of the US-British staff and German civilian assistants
seated in the projection room during recording of an issue of “ Welt im Film.”

--- Page 11 ---
Intelligence Division of the British Foreign
Office made a hurried agreement to produce,
jointly, a newsreel for the Germans. The
first. issue of Welt im Film appeared one
week after VE Day.

The first 18 issues were produced in Lon-
don, but it soon became apparent that to
insure efficient coverage of the news and
prompt delivery to the cinemas, it would
be necessary to shift the seat of production
to Germany. In August 1945 the first
members of the staff arrived at the Bavaria
Filmkunst Studios, Munich-Geiselgasteig.
The film and equipment had to be loaded
into ‘trucks and ‘jeeps, railroad coaches and
freight ears, passenger and cargo. planes.
Due to the chaotic state of transportation
at the time, material kept coming into
Munich over a period of six months. Rail
deliveries came in from Frankfurt, from
Paris, from Hamburg and Bremen, and one
lot turned up suddenly in Vienna. One
plane load which had been deposited in
the British Zone was picked up by mistake
and flown back to England. The last straw
was a call from a captured enemy material
depot saying that a huge amount of film
library material had’ been found, packed
in weapon cases, and addressed (inside) to
the newsreel.

PRODUCTION DIFFICULTIES

The difficulties of production at that time
were numerous. There was a lack of train-
ed personnel, cameras, technical equipment,
transportation, and raw stock. About this
time, too, the OWI was liquidated and the
State Department assumed its remaining
functions. ICD took over the newsreel. in
Germany. Ata conference held in February,
it -was decided by American and British re-
presentatives to continue the series of films
as an overt military operation after the ex-
piration of the original agreement made
before VE Day. As a result, the present
organization was established.

The first 36 issues of Welt im Film were
two-reelers, running about 18 minutes. This
length proved unwieldy, necessitating pad-
ding with indifferent material, and the film

(Right) French, British, American and German offi.
cials. confer on arrangements for. the ‘first census tc
be taken in Germany since 1939. Signal Corps Phot

was criticized on this score by the press and
theater-goers. Beginning with No. 37 the
editors cut the reel down to approximately
1200 feet or ten minutes. At the same time,
every effort was made to improve the gen-
eral quality of the reel.

This more concise edition of the newsreel
saved approximately 600 to 700 feet of film
per copy per issue. This meant a saving
of roughly 175,000 feet per issue, a yearly
saving of more than 100,000 dollars in costs
of raw stock and processing. In addition,
a judicious trimming of the payroll, partic-
ularly in the higher brackets, resulted in
another saving.

FILMS FAVORABLY RECEIVED

The fact that the films have been favor-
ably received by theater audiences through-
out the two zones and in Berlin and Vienna
is not strange. It would be stranger if they
were not, for the average newsreel is super-
ior in production, range of subject matter’
and general interest. For example, No. 74
of the series offers ten interesting items of
world news. The first thing to be flashed
on the screen are pictures showing the end
of General LEisenhower’s trip through
Europe. They.see him in Berlin and
in Munich where he visited the Ba-
varian Export Exhibition. They see the
border opened between the US and Soviet
Zones at Lauenstein, stressing Allied unity.
There is a picture of a blast furnace in
Berlin, reclaiming scrap iron for future
building, and a farm in Holstein, on which
new farming methods are being introduced.
They are shown pictures of the thousands
of locomotives being repaired in shops
throughout Germany and the miles of track
which have been repaired. They are car-
ried to Athens, to Hamburg, to Cairo, to
Brisbane. Last, there are the films of the
latest chlidren’s soap-box derby in the Unit-
ed States, in which they see the victor re-
ceive his crown and high school scholarship.

--- Page 12 ---
POPULATION CENSUS

Point everything that it would be de-
sirable to know about the population
of Germany at the present is unknown. Be-
cause of the huge and uncounted war los-
ses and the mass immigration of millions
of expellees, German population statistics have
become so confused that it has been impos-

sible until recenty to state accurately, even
within two or three millions, how many
people lived in the four zones of Germany.
The only statistical source available up to
the present has been the number of ration
cards issued; but even this gave no really
reliable information on the number of in-
habitants. The lack of knowledge regard-
ing actual population count, age, sex, na-
tionality, and other factors could only be
supplied by the results of a census.

QUESTIONS SHOULD BE LIMITED

Although a wealth of information on a
wide variety of subjects can be elicited
from a census, experience has shown that
the result will be better and more accurate
if only a few questions are asked. It is left
to the ingenuity of statisticians to glean the
desired information by applying clever com-
binations of questions of all kinds with the
help of counting and adding machines. In
general, the questions are restricted to those
concerning sex, date of birth, marital state,
native language, nationality, place of birth,
and profession.

The first result of the census, that of the

--- Page 13 ---
total number of persons in the four zones
of Germany, has been partially answered
by the unofficial returns from the three
Laender of the US Zone. It was found that
the population in the US Zone has increased
from 13,695,000 in 1939 to 16,682,000 in
1946 or an overall increase of 28.8 percent.
Individual returns showed that the increase
in Bavaria was 27.7 percent, in Wuertiem-
berg-Baden 14.8 percent, and in Greater
Hesse 16.3 percent. In addition, it was found
as expected that there is a marked pre-
ponderance of females over males, the
females numbering 9,129,000, while the
males number only 7,553,000. Only when
the official and complete figures are released
and studied, can the majority of questions
be answered.

Among the other answers that will be
known, will be the influence that war and
immigration have had upon the construction
of the population regarding sex and age. It
can be assumed that the war has reduced the
number of men between the ages of 20 and
40, but no over-all accurate figures are now
available. Again, it is not known how many
expellees have migrated to Germany since
May 1945. No one knows whether they add
up to eight, nine, or ten millions or even
more. These expellees represent the dangers
of over-population, especially in the Amer-
ican Zone. In order to adopt the necessary
measures for meeting their requirements for
food and housing and for placing them
properly in the program of production, it is
indispensable to known their number,
individual age, sex, and profession.

AFFECTS FUTURE PLANNING

During the war the German people were
shuffled about arbitrarily. Millions of
women and children have never returned to
their home towns, millions of others have
left bombed-out cities in such numbers that
an over-crowding of rural areas is antic-
ipated. Again, only the present census can
show accurately just how great the surplus
of women in Germany really is. This will
affect the planning for the population of the

future. The profession census is important —

10

to MG, in that it has not known how many
able-bodied men and women there were in
Germany or how many people in the un-
productive age categories who must be
provided for in some way. Also, it is im-
portant to determine where the agricultural
workers are and how many unemployed or
wrongly employed skilled laborers exist for
present unfilled jobs.

SHORTAGE OF YOUNG WORKMEN

It is possible to see that unemployment
and a shortage of workers exist simultan-
eously in Germany today. On the one hand,
a large part of German employees, working
for the last few years in jobs peculiar to war
industries, must be retrained to produte ef-
fectively in a peacetime industrial program.
On the other, there are many male pro-
fessions which suffer from the fact that older
and less efficient workers are in a majority
and there exists a shortage of young
workmen.

In considering the amount of intelligence
that can-be gained from census results in
general, even the first and most primitive
result of a census, that of the number of
inhabitants of a country and of its single
districts and communities, is of great
importance for the administration of the
state and other purposes. It indicates to the
government the amount of food required,
how many homes are needed, the necessary
transportation, water, gas, and power. It
will give an estimate of the number of future
voters and an approximation of the expenses
for. state administration.

From the number of inhabitants, too, comes
the determination of the density of popula-
tion, found by studying the relationship
between the aetual population count-and the
size of a giveh area, This figuré is important_.
to the policy of settlement and in obtaining
a basis for the distribution of the proceeds
from taxation. Again, the only accurate
information concerning the increase and
decrease of population, and of movement of
people within a country’s bundaries can be
given by a census. This is true especially in
time of war. In the last few years, millions

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 14 ---
POLIT] “iphT

by Hans Kallman

bie apathy of the German people towards
politics and their distrust of the present
political parties have been illustrated in re-
cent reports to the Office of the Director of
Intelligence, OMGUS.

“The apathy and distrust toward all po-
litical parties . . . are most noticeable among
the youth, who see nothing but a repetition
of the pre-1933 political squabbles which
ended in a Third Reich, where they were
taught to look with disdain on the ‘dirty’ and
fruitless political bickerings,” said one report.
“It is mostly the older generation of Ger-
mans who still have positive memories of
the relative blessings of the Weimar Republic,
and those who suffered under the Nazi regime,
who are actually moving toward a political
goal.”

Another report pointed out, “German
youth is not interested in any form of organ-
ized political parties due to the fact that con-
ditions, political and economic, are so un-
certain that they deem it foolhardy to be-
come members of any organization. They
are merely interested in work to earn food
and other necessities of life.”

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GENERATIONS

The difference in political attitudes be-
tween the present generations of younger
and older persons appears greater than 15
to 20 years ago, and, in some respect, the
positions have been reversed. Formerly the
older generation appeared apathetic and fre-
quently regarded politics as something
“socially inferior.” Hitler was not the first

ii

Ait

to lower politics in the eyes of the Ger
The younger generation, in turn — 0
rudely — attacked its elder leaders for
“outdated, resigned, soft” views and acti

primarily devoted to its economic aims,
even accused of being politically indolent and
satisfied with just maintaining good relations
with those in power.

Now, it is rather the older generation
which criticizes youth for its “cynical, un-
dignified” approach to those in power. It
is true that there is an active, often noisy,
minority of young people, but the greater
part seems to remain silent and reserved in
the political field.

YOUTH POLITICALLY UNRESPONSIVE

The notion that a long period of pressure
under an authoritarian regime makes for
strict obedience is one-sided. Under pres-
sure, people inevitably also begin to develop
means and skills of resistance and evasion.
People can be drafted, they can be made to
give the Hitler salute, to take the job as-
signed to them or to go to the polls. But
they cannot be forced to mean what they
say, and they cannot even be prevented —
politically — from saying as little as pos-
sible. At present, young people in their teens
and twenties very frequently are politically
so unresponsive as to be appalling. Those
who seem to have an urge to pour out their
hearts are the ones over thirty, or even forty.

‘What lies behind this unresponsiveness?
Is it real political apathy? Or is it pos-

--- Page 15 ---
sible that youth simply believes that it would
not make sense and would have no effects,
if they did speak up? There is no definite
answer. But there are indications and con-
clusions which make caution advisable.

In the first place, there is theoretical
reason. A quick and general change from
the attitudes of a member of the Hitler Youth
or BDM (German girls’ organization) to a
free and democratically minded person is
unlikely, if not impossible. ‘Such a change
requires time and patience. During the
twelve Hitler years, German youth has not
been brought up by reason. They have
virtually not been “brought up” at all, but
“conditioned.” Psychologically speaking,
means of education and propaganda were
calculated to have their effects on the indi-
vidual wholly along mechanical lines, even
against the will of the individual.

CONDITIONED EMOTIONS

Two of such devices, and the simplest
ones, are the mere repetition of the same
thing, over and over again, and the complete
exclusion of such particular knowledge as is
not wanted. There are few persons who can
resist in the long run, and younger persons
have less means of resistance than those with
matured and firm views. After some time
emotions become “conditioned,” even if the
intellect remains unaffected. The individual
once subdued by such methods, has the greatest
difficulties in extricating himself from these
psychological chains. (Editor’s note: To
encourage and foster this democracizing
change in the youth is the design of the in-
tensive youth program sponsored by the US
Army and Military Government authorities.)
This complete change toward democracy
takes a long time and strong new impres-
sions. Therefore, it cannot at present be very
great, and cannot in its early stages go much
beneath the intellectual surface.

The second reason is that young people
are at present surrounded by conditions
which do not represent an ideal atmosphere
for the teaching of democracy. Democracy
comes to German youth not as an example

12

butasa theory. There is not, and there cannot
yet be, true democracy in Germany. People may
select parties and vote for some candidates,
but the choice is severely restricted by
controls and curbs. So are the issues on
which the German people may decide.

POLITICS AND SCHOOL

Thus, the apathy shown by German
youth is partly the lack of interest that
many young people have towards “school.”
Elections and politics in Germany still are
a kind of school, not yet the “real thing,”
which undoubtedly would be much more
“interesting.” It is doubtful whether many
Americans would be very much interested in
their Constitution, if they would not have
the experience of its meaning in every-day
life.

The other fact is that the various German
administrations operating under occupational
control are not always exemples of de-
mocracy which youth could easily follow. It
is not even the “big” things that are often
of a disturbing influence. There is for
example, this remark of an 18-year-old high
school girl: “Try to imagine our teachers.
Most of them are the same today as they
were under Hitler. Most of them say more
or less the opposite of what they said two
or three years ago. Why should we get into
trouble? But if democracy is what you
say it is, there must be people to show
it to us.”

UNWILLING TO ACCEPT REALITY

It would be inaccurate to conclude that
many inevitable disappointments would turn
German youth back to the Nazi. Most of
them are ‘only interested in work to earn
food and other necessities of life. A rather
significant symptom, perhaps, is the great
percentage of those who wish to emigrate —
emigrate anywhere — implying that they
have ceased to believe in Nazism as a reality
and not yet begun to accept the new
realities in Germany. For them, life is
provisional, politics are most certainly pro-
visional. They are unresponsive, because they
are looking for a change, they do not know

--- Page 16 ---
themselves for exactly what change. Their
political apathy will not last. They are
waiting, they have silenced themselves for
the time being.

Along with the apathy and distrust of
youth, there is a kind of “mental curtain”
around the common man. The election
statistics would seem to contradict the idea
of his political apathy. In the US Zone, the
percentage of actual voters during the Ge-
meinde elections last January was 86, and
in the Soviet Zone it exceeded 90. Actually
such statistics are misleading. A consider-
able number of voters went to the polls for
“safety” reasons. Non-voters can be checked
from the voters’ list, as Germans still
remember from Hitler times. Thus, the thing
to do is to go to the polls. It does not
require much time or effort.

DECEIVING PICTURE PRESENTED

It is also true that the “noisy picture
prevailing in the top levels of party activi-
ties” is deceiving; traditionally so, especially
with the moderate parties of the middle. The
leadership of such parties comprises a great
number of intelligent and educated persons.
Unfortunately, partly due to the German
educational system, the gulf between the
intellectuals and the masses has been far
greater in Germany than, for example, in
the United States.

The active politicians find themselves
surrounded by ‘active, intelligent and by, more
than usually interested persons. :. Thus,
there is the danger that they, take. their
friends and political collaborators for “the
people” as happened under the Weimar Re-
public. Early danger signals, indicated by
a surprising lack of interest for the Wejmar
Republic among youth and among -social
groups representing a natural reservoir of
potential. supporters, were overlooked, For
a long time, the former German Democratic
Party prided itself with its large and
enthusiastic election meetings, but at. the
same time, the election results of the Dem-
ocrats went from bad to worse.

Apparently, ‘the same thing is happening:

13

again. A qualified, reliable German observer
was quoted in one intelligence [report as
stating that the highly-exaggerated impres-
sions gained by the leaders of his party
would not stand up under realistic examina-
tion. He said that those leaders had ‘been
particularly impressed by the large gather-
ings, including many of the working classes,
at their meetings, in contrast to the sparse
numbers attending another party’s meetings.
Actually the election results were disappoint-
ing for those who had formed their forecasts
according to what the campaign meetings
seemed to indicate.

CONTACT OF US PERSONNEL LIMITED

Members of the Occupation Forces who
have contact with Germans and believe that
they know what “the Germans” think, may
also become victims of the same misappre-
hension. Such contacts, whether official or
private, are mainly with Germans who are
above average in intellect and political
interest, or they would not hold their official
positions, or be regarded as an “interesting”
acquaintance. The average man is without
bright ideals or higher education, but it is
he who,. by voting or not voting, makes the
decisions at the polls. It takes patience,
effort, and the ability to speak with him
on his level to make him drop his reserve.

ATTEMPT TO SWAY AUTHORITIES

Their present experience with the occupa-
tional..administration in:Germany confirms
those previously gained ‘by the majority of
the Germans. They will, therefore, instinctly
answer questions — not. according exactly
to what they are expected to reply — but
according to what they think will be the
best way to lead occupational authorities
into the “right” direction. Germans vote
for such reasons. It does not constitute
actual “lying.” Persons with that type of
experience often try to “make” themselves
think what they believe they‘have to think.
It is much the same as the employee who
is being ‘asked by his employer how he likes
his job. He will, in most cases, say “OK”
or “fine” regardless of what he really thinks.

--- Page 17 ---
pe ancient art of violin handicraft is centered in Germany in the village
of Mittenwald. Here in a school founded by Mathias Klotz, a student
of Amati, famous Italian violin maker, young apprentices learn the technique
involved in making fine violins. The instruments are actually turned out
in a nearby shop maintained by craftsman Hans Nebel. It takes one of the
shop’s workers three weeks to complete a single instrument.

(Below lett) An old craftsman points out to a young apprentice at the Mittenwald school the prop-
er way to assemble a violin; (below center) a worker in the Nebel shop carves out a delicate part
for a violin; (below right) a craftsman tries out a finished instrument; (above right) a worker
glues the pieces of a violin frame together. Photos by Byers

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
Bipartite Conferences

The first meeting of the US-British Bi- .

partite Economics Committee was held in
Berlin last month, at which time ten resolu-
tions submitted by the German Executive
Committee for Economics were considered.
These resolutions concerned matters such as
the Level of Industry Plan, a six-point re-
covery plan for German economy, the es-
tablishment of German Working Parties for
coal and steel production, a program for the
central coordination of interzonal and
foreign trade for the two zones, and the al-
location of tobacco crop, and equalization
and distribution of tobacco taxes.

The Committee agreed to permit the Ger-
man Executive Committee (the German coun-
terpart of the Bipartite Committee) to study
the Level of Industry Plan and provide the
necessary background material. It also ap-
proved the establishment of joint German
Working Parties for Coal and Steel. In

‘addition, the Committee took note of the fact

that US and British Military Governments
had approved the establishment in principle
of a Temporary Civil Service for German
Official Agencies. A meeting has already
taken place in Frankfurt between US and
British representatives to discuss this pro-
ject. ;

Following thé Berlin meeting, the US-
British Bipartite Economic Group met at
Minden on 22 November. ‘This Group acts
as liaison between the Berlin Committee and
the German Executive Committee. This meet-
ing was addressed by the Chairman of the
German Committee who spoke of both the
great advantages and difficulties of setting
up bizonal economic unity. It was pointed
out that two departments had already been
established under the Executive Committee,
those of price fixing and control, and export
and inter-zonal trade. Another speaker rais-
ed the point that though planning for raw
materials and commodities was absolutely

-five key productions of coal, 5

indispensable, it should be confi

power and oil.

16

MG Courts

During the past six months, from May to
December, 87,360 persons were tried in the
MG courts of the US Zone and 81.7 percent
of these persons were convicted. Disobedi-
ence to MG orders accounted for almost
one-third of the total convictions, theft or
illegal possession of Allied property com-
prised 20 percent, and prejudicial acts or
conduct hostile to Allied Forces, 14.1 per-
cent. Other types of offenses included false
statements (fragebogen cases), illegal border
crossings, and unauthorized use or posses-
sion of weapons. A downward trend of ju-
venile crime was atrributed partly to the ef-
fectiveness of the youth program inaugurat-
ed in the US Zone. Bremen Enclave and
the US Sector of Berlin continued to show
the highest ratio of juvenile convictions.
There were 251 MG courts in operation
throughout the US area at the end of Octo-
ber compared with the 343 courts in exis-
tence in July 1945.

Military Payment Certificates

American and other personnel throughout
the US Zone are being warned that Military
Payment Certificates, as stated on both sides of
each bill, are for “use only in United States’
Military establishments by United States
authorized personnel in accordance with ap-
plicable rules and regulations.” The  Fi-
nance Division, OMGUS, has emphasized that
the Certificates will not be honored by any
official agency of the US Government when
presented by an unauthorized source, includ-
ing banks, central banks, treasuries, or pri-
vate citizens.

Military Payment Certificates will be ac-
cepted by the US Army only from Army
personnel and from a limited number of ci-

--- Page 20 ---
vilians who have been specifically authorized
to hold the scrip. It was pointed out to
American personnel that scrip may not be
sent to the US for conversion.

Export Inquiries

Foreign markets are again demanding
Bavarian goods. This was the conclusion
of OMGB after reviewing over 600 inquiries
for export materials received from foreign
countries since the US policy of encourag-
ing exports to pay for zonal imports was
instituted. Offers of Bavarian goods to im-
porters have totaled RM 96,305,501, with
actual sales amounting to RM 17,015,140,
or 76 percent of all exports from the US
Zone. Dozens of countries have made in-
quiries about hundreds of types of products,
from artificial eyes to Diesel engines. Howev-
er, sales are somewhat limited because of
the unknown value of the Reichsmark and
because of the necessity to pay for all
purchases in US dollars.

US-held POW’s

All prisoners of war held by the US in
the European Theater are expected to be
discharged by 1 July 1947, Headquarters,
USFET has announced. It is planned that
all US-held POW’s now in France will have
been returned to Germany by March 1, 1947.

A G-1 USFET spokesman stated recently
that there are only 59,000 prisoners of war
in the European Theater and approximately
30,000 in the Mediterranean Theater. Those
in Italy are now being repatriated at the
rate of 1000 a week.

Some of those to be released who are war
criminals will be reinterned, but will not
be held on a POW status. Originally, on
V-E Day, there were over 7,200,000 pris-
oners held be Allied Forces in the ET.

Personnel Changes

George M. Read has been appointed the
new Secretary General for all Military Tri-
bunals which will preside at the future war
crimes trials at Nuremberg. He succeeds

17

C. E.-Sands, the Acting Secretary General.
Mr. Read is Clerk of the United States Dis-
trict Court at Detroit, Michigan.

Dr. Mabel Newcomer, on leave from Vas-
sar College, where she was the head of the
Economics Department, has joined the
Public Finance Branch of the Finance Di-
vision, OMGUS, as Chief Consultant on Tax-
ation.

Malcolm McComb, Chief of the Policy and
Coordination Branch, has been named acting
head of the Bizonal Economic Control Group
at Minden in the absence of P. V. Martin.

Col. Hans W. Holmer has been appointed
Acting Director of the Transport Division,
OMGUS. Col. Holmer has been serving as
Deputy Director of the Division since March.

British Zone Briefs

Measures are being taken to standardize
all road signs in the British Zone and to
make driving less confusing by eliminating
bilingual signs as far as possible and indi-
cating speed-limits both in miles and in kilo-
meters,

The average age of all teachers in the
North Rhine Region is 50 years due to the
acute shortage of teachers between the ages
of 20 and 40. Eighty-seven percent of Ham-
burg’s elementary school teachers are more
than 40. The lack of teacher-training during
the Nazi regime is a contributing factor.

A delegation of the Swedish Committee
for Democratic Reconstruction of Education
recently completed a tour of the British Zone
in the interest of the cultural reconstruction
of Europe on a democratic basis.

More than 5,000 tons of bread grain has
been received from the Soviet Zone under
the recently concluded “barter agreement
whereby the British Zone will receive a total
of 100,000 tons of bread grain in exchange
for steel and other industrial products.

Some 10,000 to 12,000 German refugees
in Denmark, formerly residents of the area
comprising the British Zone, are now being
returned at the rate of 1,000 a week under
an agreement reached between British and
Danish authorities.

--- Page 21 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

A special Christmas commutation of prison
sentences was announced by the Military
Governor on 21 November. This will affect
about 4,000 prisoners, or 15 percent of the
total, in German institutions in the US Zone,
Berlin Sector and the Bremen Enclave.
Effective 15 December, the commutation will
permit the release of those persons whose
terms expire between 16 December and
20 January, excepting those suffering from
communicable diseases, those against whom
detainer warrants have been filed by other
agencies, those sentenced after 1 December,
and those sentenced under the Law for
Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism.

Approximately 245,000 undernourished
children in the US Zone are receiving
supplemental meals of 400 calories daily
through child feeding programs. However,
unless the volume of imported relief food is
increased quickly, since the supplies now on
hand are very short, child feeding programs
will be forced to stop at an early date.

HOSPITAL RELEASED

The release of the Dillberg Kaserne at Bad
Mergentheim by the Third Army, formerly
used as a civil internee and prisoner of war
hospital, will considerably alleviate the
serious shortage of hospital-bed capacity for
the isolation and treatment of open infectious
cases of tuberculosis in Wuerttemberg-
Baden. It is expected that this facility will
be able to accommodate 2,000 patients.

To reconcile conflicting points of view
between German and American educators, a
series of conferences between MG staff of-
ficials and those of the German Ministry of
Culture, Wuerttemberg-Baden, was in-
augurated 9 November. In that Land, the
influx of refugee teachers has enabled the
Ministry of Education to replace auxiliary
teachers with experienced ones.

On the complaint of the Polish Mission,
quadripartite agreement has been reached to

18

reprimand the feature writer and licensees
of the British-licensed Berlin paper, Tele-
graf, for articles attacking the Potsdam
Agreement.

Recently, 117 new books and pamphlets
have appeared in the Zone, embracing such
varied subjects as human anatomy, locomo-
tive boilers, the US rise to world power,
biography, and pioneers of science. Twelve
new periodicals have been issued, during the
same period.

INTERZONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES

Quadripartite agreement has been obtained
to reopen interzonal postal check and money
order service between the US, British, and
French Zones, effective 1 December. Two
additional mail routes between the US and
Soviet Zones were opened through the
following cities: (a) Berlin, Eisenach, Bebra,
Frankfurt am Main and (b) Berlin, Leipzig,
Gera, Hof, and Munich. .

The Deputy Military Governor has an-
nounced that all US-controlled Danube com-
mercial craft, other than German or
Austrian, would be returned at once to
claimant nations. About 200 will go to
Hungary, 35 to Yugoslavia, 30 to Czechoslo-
vakia, 20 to Rumania, and 15 to France.

EXPORT OFFERS REVIEWED

The prospective German exporter can now
submit his export offer to his local Eco-
nomics Office. The regional government
office at Stuttgart then screens it, if it is
approved by OMGUS, the export can be
made.

Large industrial plants in the US Zone
are bartering their products to other pro-
ducers to obtain scare goods in order to
influence a reduction of labor turnover and
an increase in productivity. In some cases,
the Economics Office has issued purchase
certificates directly to the plants, and the
management then enters the name of the
worker on the certificate.

--- Page 22 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Licensed Berlin Papers View

Constitution Proposed by SED

The Neues Deutschland, SED central
organ in Berlin, presented the party’s pro-
posed 109-article constitution for the future
German democratic republic. The first ar-
ticles take note of the fact that Germany is
an inseparable democratic republic and that
there is only one citizenship. Equal rights are
granted to men and women.

According to the draft all monopolies, car-
tels, and trusts are prohibited, while prop-
erty is secured by the constitution. Ex-
propriation can only be carried through on
a legal basis with compensation unless other-
wise provided by law. All natural resources
must become the property of the republic.
Private economic enterprises which are fit
for socialization can be expropriated. Works
of war criminals and active Nazis must be
turned over to public property without com-
pensation. The republic also sees to a
comprehensive economic planning program.
Big private land property over 100 hectares
are canceled out by a land reform without
compensation. Tilling and sharing of land
are supervised and misuses prevented.

On religion, the constitution states that
there shall be no state church, though free-
dom of religion is secured.

Parliament is the highest organ of the
republic and institutes all legislature. It
elects the government of the republic, the
ministers of which must meet the confidence
of parliament. Parliament is made up of
representatives of the people chosen by a
general, equal, secret, direct, and propor-
tional voting system for a term of two years.
All citizens of 18 years or more are eligible
to vote, while representatives can be elected
from 21 years on. Parliament chooses a
president and his deputies, and this pres-
idency decides constitutional quarrels
between the central government and the

19

The government
minister and his cabinet. The prime minister
lays down the lines of policy along the
principles set up by parliament. Laws es-
tablished by the parliament have precedence
over laws set up by the Laender.

Constitution can be changed by legislation
of two-thirds vote of parliament, while the
constitution can be changed by plebiscite
through a mere majority vote.

In the Laender the Landtag has the same
relation to the Land government as parlia-
ment has to the central government.

* * *

The first favorable comments, all of which
had come from Soviet controlled organs,
were followed by the adverse criticisms
which appeared mainly in the organs licens-
ed by the western powers in Berlin. These
followed up on the previously sole adverse
comment by the Soviet-controlled CDU organ,
Neue Zeit.

Five papers — the US-licensed organs,
Tagesspiegel and Der Abend, the British-
licensed Socialdemocrat, the French-licensed
Kurier, and the Soviet-licensed LPD organ,
Der Morgen — thought the constitutional
draft has been made too hastily, thought it
unclear in some respects, and were against
the idea of the parliament being too great a
holder of power. At the same time, some
papers underscored the fact that the con-
stitution followed too closely the party line
of the SED.

Kurier, found distasteful the great pro-
paganda accompanying the launching of the
draft. “A constitutional national assembly
would be the right forum for discussion on
a future constitution,” declared the paper.
“Viewed from an orderly development the
step of the SED seems to have been taken
too hastily.”

At the same time the paper was of the
opinion that the draft has been greatly in-

--- Page 23 ---
fluenced by the Party program of the SED,
in particular regarding the socialization of
private enterprises and land reform without
compensation; the uniform school; and the
utilization ‘of lay judges. . This infiltration of
party ‘lines, contended the paper, constitutes
a danger when questions of the national
structure and government are concerned.
The paper didn’t approve the structure of
the parliament because it could be used at
the right moment in a “party dictatorial”
sense in case one party gains the absolute
majority.
* * *

Der Abend declared, “On one point the
draft is very clear, namely, in that it pro-
claims a totalitarian and omnipotent parlia-
ment without any controlling authority
over it.”

Noting further that candidates will be ad-
mitted only from recognized parties, the
paper said: “One should consider how the
admission of parties and organizations was
administered in the Eastern zone. Then one
will realize what dangerous uncertainty for
a democratic development might result there-
from.”

As a further point of unclearness, the
paper pointed out that the freedoms of in-
dividual liberties granted in one portion of
the constitution can be canceled out by laws
adopted by a mere majority of the above-
mentioned “totalitarian” parliament. The
paper was of the opinion that most important
for future discussion is the absolute protec-
tion of the individual against the “omnipo-
tence” of the state, and when this has been
done then one can discuss the details of the
constitution.

* * *

Tagesspiegel also noted this contradiction
regarding individual freedoms and declared
that these freedoms can be at any time vio-
lated by laws. Noting that the draft pro-
vides that the economic freedom of the in-
dividual must be guaranteed, the paper point-
ed out that this, however, is placed within
the limits of the socialization and expropria-
tion paragraphs.

“If the SED wanted to show how a con-

20

stitution should not look, then its constitution
would be a masterpiece,” declared the paper.
Further, it continued there are provisions in
the draft which should never become pro-
visions of a constitution. At the same time
the paper was of the opinion that the Laen-
der are “degraded” to mere administrative
provinces.

“One can regard this constitution only as
an immense sham to distract opinion from
other topics which are in development,” con-
tended the paper.

Giving its opinion as to how the future
state should be formed, the paper declared
that first the Laender should be consolidated
in constitutional respects, then a transition
peace should be concluded with the single
Laender governments. The situation in Ger-
many should be further consolidated and
then after conditions have stabilized the
Laender should join into a German federal
republic. The conclusion of this whole pro-
cess should be the final peace treaty, which
could then be signed by the government of
the federal republic.

* * *

Vorwarts, SED evening organ, pointed out
the three principle props of the draft are the
unity of the nation, social progress, and the
progress, and the securance of peace.

Social progress, declared the paper, will
be achieved most rapidly by the cancellation
of inner German frontiers and the pooling of
all the economic forces of the people, not
however in the sense of trusts and cartels.
For this reason the constitution provides a
comprehensive economic plan, public owner-
ship of natural resources, and the splitting
up of big landed properties by a land reform,
pointed out the paper.

On securance of peace, the paper pointed
out this is to be achieved by the fact that the
constitution gives the people supreme power,
that it provides for the liquidation of all
private monopoly organizations, expropria-
tion of the property of war criminals and
active national socialists, followers of an
active war policy. Further, it provides for
the elimination of all National Socialist,
religious, and race hatreds.

--- Page 24 ---
US Editors Support Proposal
for UN-decreed Criminal Code

Leading US newspapers have expressed
strong support for the proposed codification
by the United Nations of International Crim-
inal Law based on principles enunciated by
the Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal. Edi-
tors agreed with the recent statement made
by President Truman that although such co-
dification would be an enormous task it
would be a fitting one for the United Na-
tions to undertake.

The proposal was set forth in a report to
President Truman by the US member of the
Nuremberg Tribunal, Francis Biddle. The
proposal calls for two clearer definitions of
aggressive war, applicable to any future devel-
opment and leaving litile doubt as to cul-
pability of individuals violating the law.

The New York Times gave the following
three reasons why a formal and detailed
criminal code promulgated by the United
Nations, and accepted by all nations, is an
urgent necessity:

“First and most obvious reason is that the
law as it now stands is still a general prin-
ciple which requires more exact definition. It
is still necessary to define what aggressive
war is and that planning and preparation for
war are criminal, and to distinguish all this
from a defensive war and its planning and
preparation...

“Second reason is the still existing emo-
tional, moral, ideological and even legal con-
fusion produced by the greatest and most
destructive of all wars . . . (vestiges) of
racial ideology of Nazis themselves can be
exterminated only by a formal code which
leaves no doubt of its universal application . .

“Beyond that, and as third reason, a
formal and universally accepted criminal
code against aggressive war is necessary in
order to counteract age-old sentiment, deeply
imbedded in all men, which, while detesting

21

querors, and glorifies one's.
wars, whatever their nature.”

Washington Star pointed out: “Of course,
aggressive war cannot be done away with
simply by having the entire membership of
the UN reaffirm the principles of Nuremberg
and embody them in a new code. But such
action will do this much; it will make clear
before history that the judgment passed upon
the Nazis, far from being merely the act of
the victors against vanquished, has set up
standards applicable to all.”

Philadelphia Inquirer said: “Ii is important
to take the crime of war out of the field of
generalities and get it down to personalities.
Whole nations can’t be tried and convicted
for war, but statesmen and militarists who
lead their nations into the kind of war the
Japs and Nazis directed, can be and should be.

“A specific international law covering that
subject, and not merely a precedent of
Nuremberg, will be immensely helpful.”

Economy and Defense

Proposals of Republican party leaders to
cut Government expenditures received the
support of the Philadelphia Inquirer in a
recent editorial which at the same time warn-
ed against endangering national defense
under the plea of economy. The Inquirer
said in part: “There must not, on any ac-
count be a repetition of that unwise and dan-
gerous policy which for many years after
World War I, reduced the Army, Navy, and
Airforce to a shadow of what was needed.
We should, by all means, take the lead in
obiaining real reduction of armies and navies
so that we can, at the proper time, cut down
our present huge highly necessary appro-
priations for defense. But we must not, if
we value our safety, adopt an ill-timed
process of disarmament under the plea of
‘economy’ until other great Powers prove
their willingness to reduce their arms.”

--- Page 25 ---
WATER POLICE (Continued from page 5)

shipping or four years of. naval experience.

The personnel throughout the four sectors
numbers 400, consisting of a water police
force of 300 men, 50 inspectors and 50 per-
sons concerned with administration. Since
economy is one of the guiding principles of
the organization in order to avoid undue
financial burden on both navigation interests
and the taxpayer, it has been a guiding
principle to keep the personnel at a minimum
by selecting only well-trained and efficient
workers.

The activity of the Inspection and Security
Section began in February with a number of
vessel inspections, the issuance of regulations
concerning safety and inspections of vessels,

and enforcement of the regulations by the -

water police. The section was gradually in-
creasing its scope of activities and by March
the water police station at Mannheim, seat of
one of the largest inland harbors in Europe,
had been established, as well as a station at
Passau in the Danube Sector. The gauging
and admeasurements of vessels were added
to. the functions of the section in April, and
in May a branch of Inspection and Security
was activated in the Bremen Enclave.

“OPERATION GRAB BAG”

With the program ‘in full swing, one of
the most important jobs to be accomplished

as “Operation Grab Bag,” in which I and
S ‘cooperated with US ‘authorities in a
search of vessels on the “Danube: river.
The raid yielded'a great deal of contraband
goods’ and resulted in a ‘number of vessels
being impounded: Another task carried out
was the US Zone responsibility for their
portion of the four-zone census of all inland
waterway craft in Germany, as directed by
the Allied Control Council.

Recent figures indicate the size and impor-
tance of the work of I and S. The number of
ships registered amounted to well over 5,000
in October, and’ 1,000 of these vessels had
been inspected. There have been 100 licenses
issued to commercial boats and almost 5,000

22

licenses for small pleasure craft. More than
20,000 water police patrols by motorcycle,
boat, or on foot have been accomplished, and
8,423 Inland Seamen’s Certificates of Iden-
tification and Service have been issued. Over
all the Zone, Inspection and Security has a
total of 12 motorcycles, 25 motor vehicles,
1 steamer, and 47 motor boats with which to
patrol the rivers.

BREMEN ENCLAVE EXAMPLE

A glance at the activities of I and S in the
Bremen Enclave will serve as a typical ex-
ample of its operations throughout the Zone.
In this division 140 highly trained and ex-
perienced, uniformed officers and non-com-
missioned officers have completely relieved
the US Navy of all responsibility for water-
side security in the Weser Port System.
These security police, carrying side arms,
perform their duties on. boats. or motor-
cycles, operating from six strategically- plac-
ed stations. These stations are joined to-
gether by a teletype net, and the central
station at Vegesack is tied into’ the land
police net by means of a special switch
board, Two-way radios are being installed in
all boats and stations. A special frequency
has been allotted for this use and transmis-
sion is oral, no code being allowed. Since
the German police have ‘no jurisdiction over
Allied personnel, one thoroughly-trained MP
has been assigned to each major German
patrol to’ deal with any offenses committed
by Allied persons. ;

The Inspection Section is a corps of 20
German shipbuilding engineers and shipping
specialists. Operating in'three stations, their
duties consist of inspecting, measuring, gaug-
ing, and registering all types of craft. To
facilitate the work of the inspectors and
police, all of the rules and regulations per-
taining to navigation’ in the Weser Port
System are being compiled in one volume
and printed in both’ German and English:
‘When completed, a copy of this will be plac-
ed on board every vessel in the enclave.

--- Page 26 ---
POPULATION CENSUS (Continued from page 10)

of persons within Germany have died with-
out their deaths being recorded, and millions
of others have migrated from one province
to another.

Political decisions often rest on the results
of an accurate census. Native language, place
of birth and nationality, for example, have,
in part, determined the immigrations of ex-
pellees into Germany and Poland. Answers
to the census concerning professions reflect
the economic character of the whole nation
and its separate parts. By comparisons with
former censuses, it will be seen to what ex-
tent the industrialization of the country has
increased, in what areas agriculture has held
its ground, and how the character of various
towns and cities has changed. It can be
gathered, for example, that certain pro-
fessions are disappearing altogether and that
others are gaining in importance. A com-
parison can be made between men and
women working in the same or different oc-
cupations, and whether certain job groups
are filled with old or young people skilled
or unskilled.

Not only does the census of’ professions
contribute: a great’ deal to the correct
analysis of the market made by industry
and commerce, but it also supplies important
datz for the discussion of the great social
problems which all modern countries must
face. The census in this respect will reflect
the relations among laborers, employees,
directors, and independent business men. In
fact, it will show the entire social structure
of the people and its trends of development.

AGE-PYRAMIDS EXPAINED

A great deal of information is gained from
such simple and basic results of a census, but
even more facts are established when
statisticians proceed to combine the separate
indications with each other. The combination
of age and sex of a population results in the
age-pyramid, which tells the story of the
life of a people throughout the last two or
three generations. In this age-pyramid, the
figures for the separate ages are drawn one

23

above the other in the shape of~ bars, the
figures for the number of men to the left and
for the number of women to the right. A
population with a high birth-rate has a
relatively large base, while a population
which has increased very little in the last
decades has an age pyramid which is almost
equally large at its base and middle and
tapering rapidly after the ages of 50 or 60
years. A quickly increasing population has
an age-pyramid which tapers only a little at
the tip.

AFFORDS OUTLOOK INTO FUTURE

- These are typical pyramids for countries
in normal times, but those of countries which
have gone through wars are not as regular
and symmetrical, due to the losses of male
population and the consequent decrease of
births. The age-pyramid is as valuable in
affording an outlook into the future, as it is
in measuring the past and present. While it
is difficult for any individual to predict
what will happen to him and his family in
the course of the next 20 years, the popula-
tion as an entity is subject to its own specific
and vital laws, which differ greatly from
those of an individual and in which the
element of chance is practically eliminated.

The greater number of people who in 20
years time will constitute the population of
a country are already living today. Providing
no catastrophes occur, it is now known fairly
accurately how many people will die within

‘that time, for in most countries the death

raté has been fairly stable for the last few
decades. The former greatest factor of un-
certainty, that of infant mortality, has been

brought down to a low and rather. constant

level, thanks to the progress: made in
economics and hygienics.

Therefore, the only remaining factor of
uncertainty is the number of births to be ex-

pected. This is less important than generally

assumed, since the present number of mothers
and fathers to produce children within the
next 20 years can already be seen in the
age-pyramid.

--- Page 27 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

STATION LIST

LOCATION

ELEMENTS

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co

*S-10 SK Stuttgart
*S-21 LK Boeblingen
*§-23 LK Esslingen
*§-29 LK Ludwigsburg
*§-30 LK Waiblingen
*§-50 LK Backnang
*§-53 LK Leonberg
*§-55 LK Nuertingen
*S-58 LK Vaihingen

*M-43 SK/LK Heidelberg
M-16 SK/LK Mannheim
M-89 LK Buchen s
M-90 LK Mosbach
*M-92 LK Sinsheim

*K-47 SK/LK Karleruhe
*K-46 -SK/LK Pforzheim ~
*K-87 LK Bruchsal

*H-28 SK/LK Heilbronn
*H-22 LK Crailsheim
*H-26 LK Schwaebisch Hall
*H-52 LK Kuenzelsau
*H-54 LK Mergentheim
*H-56 LK Oehringen

* Liaison and Security”

-90 :
‘M-91 LK Tauberbischofsheim ~
M-92 :

Berlin

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen F A Keating

Asst Deputy Mil Governor

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area

Stuttgart
Boeblingen
Esslingen
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Leonberg
Nuertingen
Vaihingen

Heidelberg Area :

- Heidelberg
Mannheim
Buchen

_ Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim

- Sinsheim

Karlsruhe Area

_ Karlsruhe :
Pforzheim d
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area

Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schwaebisch Hall
Kuenzelsau

Bad Mergentheim
Oehringen

24

Mr Sumner Sewall

Lt Col M O Edwards
Ist Lt J B Clifford

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst
Capt N Semaschko Jr
Maj R A Morgen
. Maj F A Hubbard
Capt R Forrest

Capt W.J Vallazza »
Maj J F Capell

Capt A Smith

Lt Col C L Jacksow
Lt Col CH Rue ~
- Capt C: van. Zelfden-
Capt. I D .Claxton
Ist It J Zecca
Capt K R-Plessner _

“Lt Col W T Burt
. Maj R H Stimson
Capt RC Stenson ..

Lt Col.C H West
Ist Lt_ RE Alley
Capt C S Keena
Capt T E. Griswold
Capt B V Bloom
Capt G H

Caple

--- Page 28 ---
UNIT.OR OFFICE. OF
MULITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING QEFICER

*U-25 LK Goeppingen

*U-11 SK/LK Ulm

¥*U-20 LK Aalen’ |
*U-24 LK Schwaebisch Gniuend
*U-27 LK Heidenheim’

Office of Mil. Gov
for Greater'Hesse ©

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn“ (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Weitzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain +
*SK/LK ‘Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Huenfeld
*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK_ Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Buedingen

* Liaison and Security

Goeppingen Area

Goeppingen

Ulm

Aalen

Schwaebisch Gmuend
Heidenheim ™' *

LAND GREATER HESSE

Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov, Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Weizlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf :
Hanau
Weilburg -
Limburg
Hofheim
Ruedesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen~
Fritzlar
Ziegehhain
Marburg
Fulda
Huenfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Buedingen

25

Lt Col A G Spitz
Maj M L Hoover
Maj C H Pallette
Maj R Lascoe
Maj L H Kyle

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
1st Lt Irving Ittner
Capt B A Sturdevan

Maj G C Sola

Maj R N Eddy
Maj D Easterday.
Capt C Lenneville
Ist Lt J C Uhland
Capt T E Faircloth
Capt R E Brandt
Capt N N Nagy
Capt P H Olson
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F. Hintz
Maj L Brown

Capt J W Francis
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt S Borda

Lt Col C H: Reed
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Maj J Connelly
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E E. Covell
Maj H Baymor, *
Capt G W, Davis
Capt L R.Allen
Capt H Potter

Lt Col A Skarry,
Capt N C Neider.,
Lt Col J C.-Rose
Maj A Gill

Capt S Kershaw
Capt C P Johnson

--- Page 29 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Commandant
Hq & Sv Company

CoA

*A-210 SK/LK Wurzbur,
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen
*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Bruckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemunden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*A-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt
*A-339 LK Konigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt

LOCATION

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Begt
(APO 170)
Munich

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt -
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Saale
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

‘DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt C R Argo
Maj C E Perry

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Maj S P Sussell
Maj L F Dunn

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt H I Blevi
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R W Jernigin
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Capt A G Prondzinski
Capt G G Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt W W James
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt F E Witty
Capt L K Owens
Capt T F Griffin
Capt C Boden

Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt M B Jaeger
Capt TA Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nurnberg
*B-222 SK/LK Bamberg
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreuth
*B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 Neustadt & ‘Coburg
*B-226 Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Furth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
SK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz

26

Col E M Haight

Lt Col A T Callicot
Lt Col J C Barnet
Lt Col S M Guild

Lt Col F Robie

Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund:

Maj H L Woodall

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott

Maj F W Crimp
Maj R Y Boyer
Capt H H Moore
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt H G Stamatis

--- Page 30 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*B-256 LK Munchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel ©
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuhl
*B-262 LK Eichstatt
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf

*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila

*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Munchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Herzbruck '
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf

Neustadt a. d. Aisch

Naila
Stadtsteinach

Maj R C Anderson
Capt L De Ford
Maj T Cleary

Maj H Zurn

Maj A S Adams
Capt J R Thomas
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Capt C W Collier
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj F C Smith
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
Maj F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D

*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg

*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
a. d. Wald

*D-243 SK/LK Passau

*D-244 SK/LK Amberg

*D-245 SK/LK Landshut

*D-246 SK/LK Straubing

*D-274:'LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach

*D-301 LK Deggendorf

*D-302 LK Eggenfelden

*D-303 LK Grafenau

*D-304 LK Kehiheim

*D-305 LK Landau a. d. Isar

*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen

*D-307 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen

*D-309 LK Vilsiburg

*D-310 LK Wolfstein

*D-349 LK Kemnath

*D-350 LK Nabburg

*D-351 LK Obervieshtach

*D-352 LK Riédenberg

*D-352 LK Vohenstrauss

*D-353 LK Roding’ ~~

*D-354 LK Waldmuenchen

*D-355 LK Beilngries

*D-356 LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.

*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

*D-375 LK Bogen

*D-377 LK Dingolfing

*D-378 LK Griesbach

*D-379 LK Koitzting

*D-380 LK Mainbur;

*D-381 LK Mallersdorf

*D-382 LK Rottenburg

*D-383 LK Viechtach

*D-385 LK Wegscheid:

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
cua
urglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden’
Grafenau
Kehlheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldoienchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt :
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

27.

Lt Col O D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj R E Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek

Lt Col J R Hector
Capt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Crowley
Maj E O Carlson
Capt L R Mariels
Maj G E Griffin
Capt R O Woodward
Maj H A Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt R N MecWorther
Capt G L Milner
Capt V O Rose

Capt N Ugland

Lt Col G H Foster
Maj R B Swatash
Maj F B Marshall
Capt A J Howard
Maj D L O’Roark
Maj T G Shackelford

Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Maj J B Clark
Maj L P Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj E Fichter
Capt A G Albert
Maj R T Coykendall
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson Jr
Ist Lt G L Thomas
Maj J J Maher Jr
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones
Maj R E Le

Ma} J F Re pee Dea
ie Lt K J Miller Jr

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE, OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E
¥*E-213 SK/LK Munich
¥*E-231 SK/LK Freising
*E-232 LK Miesbach
*K-233 LK Traunstein
*E-234 LK Altoetting. ,
*E-235 SK/LK’ Rosenheim
*E-236 LK Garmisch-.”
Partenkirchen; °
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt
*E-280. LK Erding ..
*E-281 LK Laufen.
*E-282 LK Muhldorf’’.
*E-283 LK Wasserburg
*E-284 LK Toelz , |'.,
*E-285 LK Aibling. .;
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*E-287 LK Lansdberg
¥*E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 LK Starnberg
*E-290 LK Weilheim
*E-291 LK ‘Wolfratshausen’
*£-311 LK Berchtesgaden
*E-361 LK Ebersberg
*E-362 LK Aichach
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-367 Dachau
*E-368 Schongau

Co G

*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg
¥*G-239 LK Dillingen
*G-240 LK Neu Ulm
*G-241 LK Sonthofen
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten
¥*G-292 LK Donauwoerth
*G-293 LK Gunzherg
*G-294 LK Markt. Oberdorf
*G-295 LK Memmingen
*G-296 LK Mindeleheim
*G-297 LK Neyberg
*G-298 LK Nordlingen
*G-299 LK Fugsep
*G-300 LK Krumbavh:
*G-369. LK. Illertissen
*G@-370 LK Kayfbeuren
*G-372 LK Wertingen
*G-373 LK Friedberg’)
*G-374 LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil. Gov.
Berlin Sector

Officee of Mil Gov for
Bremen. Enclave (US)
‘Wesermuende’ Détachment

* Liaison an Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Garmisch

Ingolstadt
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz
Aibling
Fuerstenefeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starpber,
Weillicins
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen

Neu Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwoerth
Gunzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Eussen
Krumbach
Wiertigsen
Kaufbeuren.
Wertingen
Friedberg -.
Schwabmunchen

BERLIN SECTOR
(APO 735)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

Bremen
‘Wesermuende

28

Lt Col R J Philpott .
Lt Col E Keller

Lt Col H E Blakeley
Capt W A Forys

Capt V L Thom

Capt C A Larimer

Capt R H Necel

Maj M'W Nitz

Lt Col J H Kelly
Maj C A Brown
Capt C J Wardle
Ist Lt C_V Russell
Capt D Root

Maj A O Froede
Maj E J Newmeyer
Ist Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein
Maj H E Reed
Maj C E Carlson
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Lawrence
Capt E J Pennetto
Capt J E Thayer
Capt H J Bierman
Lt Col R T Shelby
Capt C S Garber

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj RJ Paul

Maj H E Howlett
Ma} J E Rhea -
Maj R A. Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Maj M G Norum:

Capt § D Lubin

Ist Lt M W Toepfer
Capt L A Proper
Maj H M Sebastian
Maj B Peshmalyan
Capt J N Urtes

Capt H V Worthington
Capt F W Guzak
Maj A E Elliot.

Capt J M Woodwart
Capt D J Moran.

Capt J W Kenne

Cot F L. Howley

Lt Col Gordon Browning
Lt Col L.S Diggs