--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR

HOMBERG
BIEDEN-
ope MARBURG

LAUTERBACH,
OBER
LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN
ys QBERTAUNUS
ow.

ROTEN BURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

OFSHEIM

EIDELBERG) MOS BACH
BRUCHSAC
HEILBRONN
~
SRI a)

ONBER|
ee WAIBLINGE!

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

0

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL -INSFRUCTIONS

Safety Bulletin

Preparation of Morning Reports .

Issuance of Orders

Military Payment Certificates . 2. 2. 2. 1. 1 2 ew ee ee
Rations and Messing. . . . . - 1 7 ee

Reports of Investigation Pertaining to Line of Duty Status .

Recall to Active Duty.

Redesignation of AES Installations .

Individual Travel in the European Theater

Violation of Theater Directives on Maintenance of Law and Order .
Screening of Personnel for Overseas Movement . -
Temporary Service Records |

Clothing and Equipment Allowances for the European Theater .
Policy and Procedure for Officer Assignments .

Authority of the German Authorities in the Field of Manpower

Administration

Heads of Executive Offices, Directors of Functional Offices and
Divisions

AG 729 PMG-AGO
5 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 330.33 AGO
11 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 210.482 GAP-AGO
12 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 130
13 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 131
14 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 33.5 AGK
17 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 210.1 AGB
17 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 331.3 SSP-AGO
18 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 132
18 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 322 (CA)
18 Sept.1946, OMGUS

~ AG 210.453 AGO

19 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 134
19 Sep! 1946, USFET

Circular No. 133
19 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 210.3 GAP-GAB
19 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 014.1 (00)
26 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 230 (PO)
27 Sept 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
LITERATURE FROM US — The picture on this
week's cover shows a teacher and two of her
students Icoking over a collection of popular
American magazines which have arrived for
distribution in the Berlin Schools. The circulation
of US periodicals among German Youth is a
part of MG's current re-education program.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

TheVerdictis an abstract of the judgment deliv.
ered by the International Military Tribunal during
the final two days proceedings at Nuremberg
The portion of the jugdment dealing with the guilf
of the indicted organizations was handed down

on 30 September; the portion dealing with the

guilt of the individual defendants on 1 October.

Col. Louis. Glaser, who wrote the article
Berlin Elections, is Chief of the Civil Ad-
ministration and Political Affairs Branch, OMG,
Berlin District. A former newspaperman, public
relations expert and president of @ national
advertising agency, Colonel Glaser came to
Europe in 1943 and was placed in charge of
the Information and Intelligence Section, G-5,
SHAEF. He has been in his present position
since MG moved to Berlin on 1 July 1945.

General Dwight Eisenhower, US Army Chief
of Staff, addressed the American correspondents
and officials of OMGUS during his visit to
Berlin on 30 September, His remarks, as
transcribed by PRO, OMGUS, are printed in
this issue under the heading: Eisenhower Sees
MG Improvement.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
The Verdict

Berlin Elections
Eisenhower Sees MG Improvement

Youth Activities Program
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
STATION LIST

PAGE

11
13

14
17
18
32

--- Page 7 ---
THE

! he International Military Tribunal,
which had been sitting in the Palace

of Justice in Nuremberg since 20 November

1945 in judgment of 22 individual defend-" ’’

ants and seven organizations of Nazi Ger-
many, announced on 1 October 1946 its ver-
dicts and sentences, thus concluding’ the
greatest trial in history.

The indictment charged individual de-
fendants with crimes against peace by. the
planning, preparation, initiation and waging

of wars of aggression, which were also wars

in violation of international treaties, agree-
ments and assurances; with war crimes; and

with crimes against humanity. The defend- °

ants were also charged with participating

in the formulation or execution of a common:

plan or conspiracy to commit all these
crimes. The Tribunal was further asked to
rule on the criminality of the seven named
organizations.

24 ORIGINALLY INDICTED

Twenty-four individuals high in the Ger-
man government, Nazi Party, and military
and naval commands were named originally
in the indictment. The defendant Robert
Ley committed suicide in prison on 25 Oc-
tober 1945. The Tribunal decided on
15 November 1945 that the defendant
Gustav Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach
could not be tried at that time because of
his physical and mental condition. The
defendant Martin Bormann had not been
taken into custody but the Tribunal tried
him in absentia.

The findings of the Tribunal required
two days to read in court and filled 283
typewritten pages. Pertinent excerpts con-

cerning each indicted individual and accused
organization along with the verdict and
sentence are presented herewith.
Hermann Wilhelm Goering

The evidence shows that, after Hitler, he
was the most prominent man in the Nazi
Regime. He was Commander-in-Chief of
the Luftwaffe, Plenipotentiary for, the  __
Four-Year Plan,,, and... had, “fremendous fe
influence with Hitler, at least until 1943
when their relationship, deteriorated, ; endings: + Aah
in his arrest a 1945. \ He, _destified, that. a
Hitler kept him :informed, ef all important... .,
military and political problems... ,4,: PoC Te

Goering was often, indeed, almost always, .,., sladivted
the moving forge, second only-to, his leader. , , yao"
“He ‘was the leading. War.ageressor, both ASB belts
_Political and as military leader; he was the a
director of the slave labor program and the
creator of the o: ram: against j
the Jews and o Beles ce iew ana ole 3
abroad. All of these’ crimes he has frankly
admitted. On sont’ Spevitid dase:
be conflict of ‘8st inion aut’
broad outline, ] 2OVR., ad is
than sufficiently. wide, ato, ba conclusive 108: 4
his guilt. His eres beta paints ccna) :

Ser

fendant Gonna sy ) allt

(conspiracy, crimes | ota ape

crimes, crimes agains} humanity),

Sentence: rr hangings:
‘Radvit 1

1020" “an nd

He yet ie nett

--- Page 8 ---
| Jeaa Se |

a relationship which lasted until Hess’ flight
to the British Isles. On 2 April 1933 he was
appointed Deputy to the Fuehrer, and on
1 December 1933 was made Reich Minister
without Portfolio. He was appointed Mem-
ber of the Secret Cabinet Council on
4 February 1938 and was a member of the
Ministerial Council for the Defense of the
Reich on 30 August 1939. In September
1939, Hess was officially announced by
Hitler as successor designate to the Fuehrer
after Goering. On 10 May 1941 he flew
from Germany to Scotland....

TOP MAN IN NAZI PARTY

As Deputy to the Fuehrer, Hess was the
top man in the Nazi Party with responsibility
for handling all Party matters, and
authority to make decisions in Hitler’s name
on all questions of Party leadership. As
Reich Minister without Portfolio he had
the authority to approve all legislation
suggested by the different Reich Ministers
before ‘it could be enacted as law.... Of
all the defendants none knew betier than
Hess how determined Hitler was to realize
his ambitions, how fanatical and violent a
man he was, and how little likely he was to
refrain from resort to force, if this was the
only way in which he could achieve his
aims....

There is evidence showing the participa-
tion of the Party Chancellery, under Hess,
in the distribution of-orders connected with
commission of war crimes; that Hess may
have had knowledge of, even if he did not
participate in the crimes that were being
committed in the East, and proposed laws
discriminating against Jews and Poles; and

that he signed decrees forcing certain groups
of Poles to accept German citizenship. The
Tribunal, however, does not find that the
evidence sufficiently connects Hess with these
crimes to sustain a finding of guilt .. .

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds the de-
fendant Hess guilty on Counts One and Two
(conspiracy, crimes against peace) and not
guilty on Counts Three and Four (war
crimes, crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Life imprisonment.

Joachim von Ribbentrop

He joined the Nazi Party in 1932. By
1933 he had been made Foreign Political
Advisor to Hitler, and in the same year the
representative of the Nazi Party on Foreign
Policy. In 1934 he was appointed Delegate
for Disarmament Questions, and in 1935 Min-
ister Plenipotentiary at Large, a capacity
in which he negotiated the Anglo-German
Naval Agreement in 1935 and the Anti-
Comintern Pact in 1936. On 11 August 1936
he was appointed Ambassador to England.
On 4 February 1938 he succeeded von Neu-
rath as Reichsminister for Foreign Affairs . .

On 2 January 1938 while still Ambassador
to England, he sent a memorandum to Hit-
ler indicating his opinion that a change in
the status quo in the East in the German
sense could only be carried out by force and
suggesting methods to prevent England and
France from intervening in a European war
fought to bring about such a change .. .
On 13 March 1938 Ribbentrop signed the
law incorporating Austria into the German
Reich. Ribbentrop participated in the ag-
gressive plans against Czechoslovakia . . .
played a particularly significant role in the
diplomatic activity which led up to the at-

--- Page 9 ---
tack on Poland . . . was advised in advance
of the attack on Norway and Denmark and
of the attack on the Low Countries; and pre-
pared the official Foreign Office memoranda
to justify these aggressive actions . . . He
also consulted with Rosenberg in the pre-
limiminary planning for the political ex-
ploitation of Soviet territories .

Ribbentrop participated in a meeting of
6 June 1944 at which it was agreed to start
a program under which Allied aviators car-
rying out machine gun attacks on the civilian
population should be lynched . . . Ribbentrop
is also responsible for War Crimes and
Crimes against Humanity because of his ac-
tivities with respect to occupied countries
and Axis satellites ... He played an im-
portant part in Hitler’s “final solution” of
the Jewish question . . ;

Ribbentrop participated in all the Nazi
aggressions from the occupation of Austria
to the invasion of the Soviet Union. Al-
though he was personally concerned with
the diplomatic rather than the military aspect
of these actions, his diplomatic efforts were
so closely connected with war that he could
not have remained unaware of the aggressive
nature of Hitler’s actions ...

Conclusion: ‘The Tribunal finds that Rib-
bentrop is guilty on all four Counts (con-
spiracy, crime sagainst peace, war crimes,
crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Wilhelm Keitel

He was Chief of Staff to the then Minister
of War von Blomberg from 1935 to 4 Feb-
ruary 1938; on that day Hitler took com-
mand of the armed forces, making Keitel
Chief of the High Command of the Armed
Forces (OKW). Keitel did not have com-
mand authority over the three Wehrmacht
branches which enjoyed direct access to the
Supreme Commander. OKW was in effect
Hifler’s military staff.

Keitel attended the Schuschnigg conference
in February 1938 . . . but since he had been
appointed OKW chief just one week before
he had not known why he had been summon-
ed. Hitler and Keitel then continued to put

pressure on Austria with false rumors, broad-
casts and troop maneuvres ... After Munich
Keitel initialed Hitler’s directive for the at-
tack on Czechoslovakia . . . Keitel was pres-
ent on 23 May 1939 when Hitler announced
his decision “to attack Poland at the first
suitable opportunity.” Hitler had said on
23 May 1939 he would ignore the neutrality
of Belgium and The Netherlands, and Keitel
signed orders for these attacks...

Keitel testified that he opposed the in-
vasion of the Soviet Union for military rea-
sons, and also because it would constitute a
violation of the non-aggression pact. Never-
theless he initialed “Case Barbarossa” , , ,
he issued his timetable for the invasion .. .
he directed all army units to carry out the
economic directives issued by Goering . . .
for the exploitation of Russian territory, food
and raw materials.

ORDERS ISSUED BY KEITEL

On 4 August 1942 Keitel issued a directive
that paratroopers were to be turned over to
the SD. On 18- October Hitler issued the
Commando Order . . . After Normandy Kei-
tel reaffirmed the order, and later extended
it to Allied missions fighting with partisans.
He admits he did not believe the order was
dJegal but claims he could not stop Hitler.

‘When on 8 September 1941 OKW issued
its ruthless regulations for Soviet POW’s,
Canaris wrote to Keitel. that under inter-
national law the SD should have nothing to
do with this.‘On this memorandum in Kei-
tel’s handwriting .... is the statement:
“The objections arise from the military con-
cept of chivalrous warfare.. This is the de-
struction of an ideology. Therefore I ap-
prove and back the measures.” . . .

On 16 September 1941 Keitel ordered
that attacks on soldiers in the East should
be met by putting to death 50 to 100 Com-
munists for one German soldier, with the
comment that human life’ was less than
nothing in the East. On 1 October he or-
dered military commanders always to have
hostages to execute when soldiers were
attacked... .

--- Page 10 ---
In the face of these documents Keitel does
not deny his connection with these acts.
Rather, his defense relies on the fact that he
is a soldier, and on the doctrine of “superior
orders,” prohibited by Article 8 as a defense.
There is nothing in mitigation. Superior
orders, even to a soldier, cannot be con-
sidered in mitigation where | crimes« as
shocking and extensive have-been committed
consciously, ruthlessly and ‘without military
excuse or justification.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds Keitel
guilty on all four counts (conspiracy, crimes
against peace, war crimes, crimes against
humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Ernst Kaltenbrunner

He joined the Austrian Nazi Party and
the SS in 1932. In 1935 he became leader
of the SS in Austria. After the Anschluss
he was appointed Austrian State Secretary
for Security and when this position was
abolished in 1941 he was made Higher SS
and Police Leader. On 30 January 1943 he
was appointed Chief of the Security Police
and SD and Head of the Reich Security
Head Office (RSHA), a position which had
been held by Heydrich until his assassina-
tion in June 1942. He held the rank of
Obergruppenfuehrer in the SS.

As leader of the SS in Austria Kalten-
brunner was active in the Nazi intrigue
against the Schuschnigg Government....
But there is no evidence connecting Kalten-
brunner with plans to wage aggressive war
on any other front....

As Chief of the RSHA, Kaltenbrunner
had authority to order protective custody to
and release from concentration camps....
Kaltenbrunner was aware of conditions in
concentration comps.... Kaltenbrunner
himself ordered the execution of prisoners
in those-camps.... During the period in
which Kaltenbrunner was Head of the
RSHA, it was engaged in a widespread
program of War Crimes and Crimes against
Humanity. These crimes included the
mistreatment and murder of prisoners of

war.... An order signed by Kaltenbrunner
instructed the Police not to interfer with
attacks on -bailed-out Allied fliers..... The
RSHA played a leading part in the “final
solution” of the Jewish question by the
etermination of the Jews....

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that
Kaltenbrunner is not guilty on Count One
(conspiracy). He is guilty under Counts
Three and Four (wars crimes, crimes against
humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Alfred Rosenberg

He joined the Nazi Party in 1919, par-
ticipated in the Munich Putsch of 9 Novem-
ber 1923, and tried to keep the illegal Nazi
Party together while Hitler was in jail.
Recognized as the Party’s ideologist, he
developed and spread Nazi doctrines in the
newspapers which he edited and in the
numerous books he wrote. His book “Myth
of the Twentieth Century” had a circulation
of over a million copies. In April 1933 he
was made Reichsleiter and head of the
Office of Foreign Affairs of the NSDAP
(APA). Hitler in January 1934 appointed
Rosenberg his Deputy for the Supervision of
the Entire Spiritual and Ideological Train-
ing of the NSDAP. In January 1940 he was
designated to set up the “Hohe Schule,” the
Center of National Socialism Ideological and
Educational Research, and he organized the
“Einsatzstab Rosenberg” in connection with
this task. He was appointed Reich Minister
for the Occupied Eastern Territories on
17 July 1941.

As head of the APA Rosenberg was’ jn
charge of an organization whose agents were
active in Nazi intrigue in all parts of the
world.... He played an important role in
the preparation and planning of the attack
on Norway.... Roseriberg bears a major
responsibility for the formulation and exe-
cution of occupation policies in the Occu-
pied Eastern Territories.... Rosenberg is
responsible for a system of organized
plunder of both public and private property
throughout. the invaded countries of

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 11 ---
BERLIN

ELECTIONS ©

by Col. Louis Glaser

B= becomes a sounding board for the
response of the German people to the
iiffering concepts of democracy and gov-
ernment presented by the four jointly oc-
cupying powers when the citizens of Berlin
go to the polls on Sunday, 20 October, for
their first free municipal
14 years.

Only in Berlin have the citizens of one
city of Germany had actual experience with
the different kinds of democracy and the
kinds of government for which the various
Allied powers stand. It is reasonable to
draw the conclusion that when Berliners
go to the polls many of them will not nec-
essarily be voting for or against any party,
but consciously and seriously for one. par-
ticular concept of democracy.

election in

IMPORTANCE OF BERLIN VOTE

Germany will ultimately make this same
decision, and the Berlin vote, establishing such
a decision, will have a great influence upon
the ultimate destiny of Germany and. there-
fore upon the political destiny of Europe.
Berliners will go to the polls on 20 October
to give democratic self-government to their
city, but, with the counting of the ballots, it
will become known what kind of democracy
they have chosen and into what pattern
the future may fall.

The citizens of Berlin will not vote for
candidates; they will vote for parties. And
they will not vote for their chief city officials
at all. They will vote for members of the
City Assembly, which is called the’ Stadt-

verordnetenversammlung, and for members
of the Assemblies of the City Boroughs,
which are called the Verwaltungsbezirke.
There will be 130 members elected to the
City Assembly, and Assemblies will be
chosen in the 20 boroughs of the city.

The voting will be according to pro-

--- Page 12 ---
portional representation. . That means . the
voter casts his. ballot for the list of, one of the
four political parties. He may or may. not
be told what names are on the list — it is
unimportant. If it takes a certain number of
votes in one borough to ,elect a member of
the Assembly and one party. polls more than
that number, the surplus votes are thrown
into a general pool and used by the party
for the election of other members, :

After the City Assembly is elected it will,
in turn, elect a Magistrat or governing ad-
ministrative body, and the Magistrat,, in
turn, will elect an Oberbuergermeister, .or
Lord Mayor of Berlin, and three Buerger-
meister who are his assistants.

SIGNIFICANCE EXPLAINED

The significance i is this: * party loyalty and
party responsibility are much more impor-
tant here than they would be in America.
In Berlin the voter cannot ‘split his vote. He
cannot: vote for Schmidt, who is a °CDU
candidate for one office, and Weiss, who -is
an LDP candidate, for another; he* votes for
only one of the parties. r

Another curious situation. .in the Berlin
election is that the press of Germany.and of
the whole world is avidly discussing ‘them.
As the election comes closer, newspapers and
periodicals all over the: world..are devoting
a great “deal of.space and, speculation as‘ to
the results,. But the people of Berlin still are
relatively. aphathetic about politics, elections
and’ parties, being more preoccupied -with
food; shelter and ‘other necessities of life,

. The Allied Kommandantura,’ which is to
Berlin what the:Allied Control Council ‘is to
Germany, produced: the ‘provisional con-
stitution for Berlin under : which - elections
could be held-and also produced the election
regulations. An official statement was issued
that all political parties had.equal rights and
a regulation was: passed putting the elections
under qudripartite. control. The ability: of
these four nations, with divergent. social,
cultural, and: political concepts, to agree-on
a constitution for Berlin, on the type and
form of the election, on the political . party:
participation, and the form and:.concept of

the future of Berlin, is.a matter of vital
importance.. : Spice

Here. is.a review of the four political
parties, in Berlin today and some -major
principles for which each stands... -

The Social Democrats are the inheritors
of the old ‘Socialdemokratische Partei tut in
Berlin their leadership is weak and it is imp-
ossible’ to’: tell. from their. declarations
whether -they”; still stand for. the-’ class
struggle or. a-modification of Marxian so-
cialism. that: would, fit. into a modern econ-
omic: : picture, They. present . socialism in
democratic form. Their German leader is
Schumacher of Hanover and their’ potential
strength is enormous: if. they. convince the
German laboring: classes. that they: really
possess the’ mantle of: the old'SPD.: They
definitely comprise a party of the left... .

The Social Unity Party (Sozialistische
Einheitspartei Deutschlands, or the SED) is
the old German Communist party, overlaid
with a.strong, Soviet ‘doctrine, and a. dis-
cipline which is practically: military.. Many
of their leaders: were trained in Moscow for
their present posts.. .While Wilhelm Pieck
and Otto Grotewolil are the top men, Walter
Ulbricht, an astute political leader, is_gen-
erally considered the brains of the party.

AUTHORITARIAN PARTY CONTROL

The SED stands for authoritarian party
contro] and class consciousness.’ This tradi-
tional, revolutionary motive — the pass-
ionate declaration of emancipation of the!
oppressed is violently real to Europeans.
When the Communist says that’ laborers
must be aware of the class difference in
order to fight to wipe out all class: differen-
ces, he is dealing with something vital.

' The Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) is
the most conservative of the present day
political groups, standing for separation of
Church ‘and state and the preservation of
private enterprise. :
' The Christian Democratic Union is in
many respects the most interesting factor
in Berlin ‘and in Germany. It is-the only one
of the four Berlin parties which seems to

--- Page 13 ---
stand for a federalized Germany, or a com-
bination of German states, rather than a
strong, indivisible, centralized German gov-
ernment. To some extent it is the heir of
the old, powerful Catholic Center Party —
but the CDU, instead of Catholicism alone,
stands for the principles of Christianity;
like the old Centrists, its precepts are
humane and moral as well as political.  ”

It is difficult to fix the CDU’s political
platform because it varies, depending upon
the part of Germany in which the’ party
operates. The party attracts all classes of
people because it seems semi-conservative,
yet socially progressive. In Western Ger-
many the CDU appears to be the spokesman
of vested interests, and in Southern Ger-
many it is the spokesman of the Catholic
Church, whereas in the Soviet Zone and in

The representation from each of. the
boroughs of Berlin to the City assem-
bly (shown in column 1) and the num-
ber of members of each borough as-
sembly (shown in column 2) follow:

(1) City (2) Borough
Assembly Assembly
British Sector

Wilmersdorf 5 40

Charlottenburg 9 45

Spandau 6 40

Tiergarten 5 40
French Sector

Wedding 10 45

Reinickendorf 8 40
US Sector

Zehlendorf 3 30

Steglitz 6 40

Tempelhof 11 40

Neukolln 11 45

Schoneberg 7 40

Kreuzberg 8 45
Soviet Sector

Mitte 5 40

Prenzlauer Berg 10 45

Friedrichshain 8 40

Treptow 4 40

Koepenick 5 40

Lichtenberg 6 40

Weissensee 3 30

Pankow 6, 40

10

Berlin,” the CDU is semi-socialist ‘in, its
declarations and. plays’ down. Church
affiliations. * of ae ee

It cannot be said to represent the great
and powerful German working class, and
its policies are still rather fluid, but it must
be reckoned with on several counts. Not the
least is its very intelligent leadership which
at present is split among Kaiser of Berlin,
Adenauer of Cologne and Mueller of Munich.
' These then are the four political parties
which will be put before the voters on the
20th of October.

Berlin is divided into four sectors of Mil-
itary Government administration. The two
largest sectors are the Soviet with about one
and a quarter million population in eight
boroughs and the American occupying six
boroughs, with a population of about a
million. The population of Berlin today is
estimated at about three and a half million,
which is about, 65 percent, of the prewar
figure.

SOVIET INFLUENCE FELT

The Soviets alone occupied Berlin for
two months — from May to July 1945.
‘What went on in those two months has had
a serious bearing on everything’ that has
happened since, including the development
of the political situation.

In those two months the USSR did a
truly magnificent job. They cleaned up the
city, they denazified it so completely that
the matter of denazification has never been
more than a nominal ‘problem in this heart
of Nazism. They started newspapers, open-
ed the schools, re-instituted’ the police and
fire services, undertook: public health mea-
sures, fed the city — and they authorized
four political parties. Three of them were
the same as the present line-up but. the
fourth, the Communist’ party (KPD) has
now gone out of existence,’at least, in name:

From the beginning the KPD was sponsor-
ed, sided and pushed’ forward bythe Soviet
occupying authorities. But this very sponsor-
ship of the KPD militated against the life
and ‘existence of the party. There was ‘then
a logical step to take: Fuse the KPD with

(Continued on page 19)

--- Page 14 ---
Seas are days of pessimism in a way,
about international relationships and
even at the risk, let’s say, of being a “Pol-
lyana” about the thing, I think there is
too much pessimism and too much
writing down of progress that has been
made and the opportunity still lying be-
fore us. After all, the world has just
completed the greatest global war of all
history. All economics are disrupted.
People are puzzled. They are worried
about the future, not only from a national-
istic standpoint, but from a_ personal
standpoint. Public opinion will crystal-
lize slowly after the disruption it has
suffered during that war. Yet I hear the
story of my own people at the Control
Council Meeting amicably struggling hard
to get together on the problems they
have been given to solve. They are
honestly trying to do the job that they
were given to do.

ENCOURAGING SIGN FOR FUTURE

Well, to my mind, when we remember
what the world has been through how
each nation is concerned with its own
security, affected by fears that certain
things might happen again, I think that
in itself is a very encouraging sign and
I believe without getting over into
the diplomat’s job and speaking solely
as a soldier, we can look forward to
future prospects with somewhat more
optimism than is directly reflected in
our more pessimistic statements, at least
at home. As you know, one of the jobs
given to the Control Council a long time
ago was to effect the economic unity of
Germany. That has not been accomplished
but at least one step has been made. The
American and British Zones have reached
agreements by which economic unity will be
effected and from our standpoint it seems
to me we should be, and I am speaking

Gen. Eisenhower addressing cor-
respondents during his recent vis-
it to Berlin. Photo by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 15 ---
how: of the US portion ‘of ‘the’ group, should
be particularly gratified in that in order to
effect? titis the exportable surpluses from the
British Zone are many times what they are
from the American Zone. In other words,
our British partners, seeing the over-all ad-
vantage, have certainly sacrificed an im-
mediate benefit that they have for the good
of the whole and I believe another encour-
aging sign toward the possibilities of inter-
national cooperation for the good of the
whole instead of just for the benefit of a
part. and personally the great hope is, of
course that the beneficial results of that eco-
nomic unity. in that sector will prove that
others will want to join in order to enjoy
the resulting advantages, so I think this
example is another encouraging sign along
the general line about which I just spoke
to you.

NOTES PROGRESS IN US ZONE

Coming back to Germany, after having
been gone just about a year, in other words
having left just a few months after the end
of the shooting war, I have been struck, all
the way through the American Zone that T
have seen and here in Berlin, with the pro-
gress that has been made in cleaning up the
mess and getting started again. I hear the
story of industries of various types getting
started sufficiently well and some exports
can be realized in order to pay for the im-
ports that they need. There is an atmosphere
and evidence of activity, productive activities
in the fields, and cities that I think is very,
very encouraging.

The great policy that we started some
months back of putting responsibility in the
hands of the local German communities I
think is paying dividends — certain reports
show that it has. The policy of giving the
greatest amount of freedom to the German
press, I think, is paying dividends. I realize
there are difficulties in the way of making it
free all at once and the fact that certain
restrictions have been imposed has resulted
in some criticism, but I am told that very
shortly there are to be published liberaliza-

tion ‘policies of the freedom of the press —-
I don’t know whether it affects the whole of
Germany, I wasn’t told that, but at least the
US section.

I am convinced that if we are going to
achieve finally the objective of teaching
these people the way of life and leading
them into practices that we call democratic,
we must make them practice it. We can’t
do it by any medium of force.

As a particular incident that was most
gratifying to me, just recently, one of the
Ministers President in talking to a high
American official and speaking of military
occupation said, “Well, naturally, no people
like occupation and I am not going to say
we like it,” but he did say that the results
achieved and the attitudes taken by the
American authorities and the American Army
are so commendable and so understanding
that in his opinion they are establishing and
helping to establish a few standards. That
was not said at the expense of any other
Zone for the reason that this Minister Pres-
ident didn’t know what was going on in
the zones but I will assume he spoke so
freely about American Forces that to a
certain degree it applies to all occupation.
As in the past ‘we again have evidence that
international cooperation is not a satisfac-
tory issue in the world but it is something
that is growing and should produce con-
tinuously better results.

RELATIONSHIP WITH PRESS

Now, I want to talk just a bit about the
press. Through three years of war I had
no complaints about the press and I believe
at one time there were 943 press represen-
tatives including the radio in our theater.
Our relationships were fine and conducted on
the basis that they were equal staff officers

_ of the headquarters. They had a respon-

12

sibility and we had one and tried to be on
some common ground in order to get the job
done. In the early days of the occupation,
immediately after the shooting was over,
I must say that when my cohorts. and I
received what we considered an unnecessary

(Continued on page 19)

--- Page 16 ---
YOUTH ACTIVITIES

An American soldier gives bat-
ting instruction to a German youth
at a recent Army-sponsored out-

ing.

Signal Corps Photo

A™ personnel in the ET are helping
the new German Youth Activities Pro-
gram by participating in a wide variety of
entertainment and recreational activities
sponsored by the US Army. An incentive
for soldiers to join in these activities is out-
lined in a forthcoming USFET directive
authorizing commanding officers to excuse
personnel from training duty up to four
hours a week for their efforts in helping the
Youth Program.

An example of the work being done is the
picnic outing recently sponsored by the Army
for 270 underprivileged German children of
Schwanheim, suburb of Frankfurt, in which
the children were treated to a wide assort-
ment of food, various types of recreation,
and music by an eight-piece German band.
In addition, eight to ten jeeps are made avail-
able each Sunday for the purpose of giving
the children short rides, and on one Sunday
a merry-go-round was rented through a vol-
untary contribution from all depot officers.

13

Another program, sponsored by MG Public
Welfare Department of Greater Hesse, was
a four weeks vacation for 450 Berlin children
in the famous tourist center of Ruedesheim-
on-Rhine. During these four weeks the
children were given five meals daily to
counterbalance their undernourished con-
dition, the food being supplied by CRALOG,
Council of Relief Agencies Licensed to Oper-
ate in Germany.

FUTURE LEADERS OF GERMANY

The Theater Commander has expressed his
interest in this German Youth Activities Pro-
gram and his desire to see that everything is
done to further the efforts being made. In
a recent statement he said, “What we hope
to achieve is that a great number of German
youth will absorb our democratic ideals and
that they in turn will become the future
leaders of the German nation. I am very
interested in this program and I intend to
follow it very closely indeed.”

--- Page 17 ---
Voting Procedure for Land
Elections Outlined by Omgus

The voting procedure to be followed in
the popular ratification of Land constitutions
and Landtag elections has been announced
by OMGUS. i

German nationality (Staatsangehoerigkeit)
is required of each voter. Those persons who
are now German nationals or were German
nationals prior to 8 May 1945 and have not

_ assumed new citizenship, and members of
German minorities in Czechoslovakia, Austria
and Hungary who have been officially re-
patriated to Germany will be considered
eligible as German nationals for election
purposes. :

Not more than one year of residence in the
land of voting is required. Germans from
other zones who meet this one year require-
ment as well as the other voting require-
ments shall be registered as voters unless the
refugee commissioner, prior to the closing
of the voters’ register, has rendered decision
that they shall be returned to their original
zones.

The official minimum voting age will be
21 years. Men and women are to have equal
voting rights.

Denazification requirements for voters re-
main the same as in previous elections. As
in the 30 June elections, Germans who have
been tried by a Denazification Tribunal and
acquitted and those Germans found guilty
of being followers but who have made res-
titution through payment of fines shall be
registered as voters.

All candidates for the Landtag must be
qualified voters and must meet the standards
of the Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism. This means that:
prior to a final decision by a denazification
tribunal, no person may be considered ‘eli-
gible for the Landtag if he is in any of the
Class I or Class II categories of the list at-

14

iached to the law or if he is a

NSDAP or one of its formations (excluding
the HJ and BDM) unless he has received
approval by Military Government in accord-
ance with the Law; and after a final decision
by a tribunal, no person is eligible unless he
has been exonerated or has been classified as
a follower and has paid his fine.

The constitutions are to be submitted by
the Constitutional Assemblies of the Laen-
der before 30 September to OMGUS for ap-
proval. Military Government authorities will
review the proposed constitutions and return
them to the Constitutional Assemblies for
final passage which is to be effected before
19 October. The Land Constitutional As-
semblies will then set a date, not later than
8 December, for a popular referendum on
the proposed constitutions at which time
election of members of the Landtag will also
be held.

If any of the three constitutions fails to
receive a majority vote in the referendum,
it will be considered defeated, and the rep-
resentatives elected to the Landiag will
serve as a new constitutional assembly which
will draw up another constitution for re-
submission to Military Government and the
German people. Under such circumstances
the elected assembly will not serve as an
interim Landiag, but may serve as an
advisory agency to the Land government.

The text of the constitutions will be pub-
lished for the information of voters at least
one month before the date to be set for
the elections.

Youth Book Exhibit

More than 20,000 German civilians, two-
thirds of them less than 20 years old, visited
the International Youth Book Exhibition in
Siutigart during the past month.

The exhibition, which came from Munich,
will open soon in Frankfurt, and includes
4,000 children’s books and drawings from

--- Page 18 ---
14 countries. Books written in English and
French were read to visiting children by
trilingual librarians in the kindergarten
section and the older children were allowed
to read whatever books attracted their atten-
tion.

In answer to questionnaires, presented to
groups of young people between 13 and 18
years old, the first choice in books was in the
technical field and the second favorite prov-
ed to be biographies.

British Zone Briefs

A total of 155,656 Germans have been re-
moved from office up to the end of August
in the denazification program in the British
Zone. In the same period of occupation,
944,547 persons had made application for
employment, 86,106 applications were  re-
fused and 1,634 applicants had been prose-
cuted for false answers.

Production of pig iron and steel in the
British Zone during August was the highest
of any month since the occupation. The out-
put of pig iron rose to 181,104 tons, of ingot
steel to 249,846 tons, and of rolled steel to
203,227 tons.

The Kaiser Bridge, one of four Weser
River bridges destroyed by the Germans in
Bremen in the final stages of the war, will
soon be raised from the river bed. This
bridge, weighing more than 2,500 tons, is
the second heaviest span ever to be raised
from water.

Nearly 5,000 tons of tinned herring, one
of the largest. single consignments of fish
ever received, arrived in Hamburg recently
from Montreal, for distribution in the British
Zone.

Cardinal Josef Frings, Archbishop of Co-
logne, recently visited England where he was
the guest of Cardinal Griffin, Archbishop of
Westminster. Cardinal Frings inspected
prisoner of war camps in England and met
German army chaplains.

Considerable quantities of iron and steel
are to be delivered to the Soviet Zone in ex-
change for an equivalent value of various

5

products to the British Zone, including grain
and domestic-fuel for Berlin, under a British-
Soviet reciprocal trade agreement.

Appointments to MG Court

An acting clerk and four deputy clerks
have been appointed to the recently establish-
ed Military Government Court for Civil Ac-
tions. Herbert B. Gerhart is the presiding
judge of the court.

Civil action for damages arising out of the
operation of motor vehicles not owned by
the US Government can be instituted now by
or against a United Nations national by
filing a complaint in the office of the clerk
of the court or with any of the deputy clerks.
The seat of the court is in Stuttgart but the
court will sit at any time or place within
the US Areas of Germany as the need arises.

The new appointees are: Acting clerk:
John Davis, Stutigart; deputy clerks: Wil-
liam R. Galloway, Wiesbaden; Joseph Cash,
Munich; 2nd Lt. James R. Bartholomew,
Bremen; Lt. Col. Leo A. Swoboda, Berlin.

Discharged PW's

Any prisoner of war who does not have a -
discharge certificate when applying to Ger-
man authorities for ration cards is to be
turned over to the nearest prisoner of war
enclosure for investigation, processing and
proper discharge. This .OMGUS . order
resulted from claims by many POWs that
they were not issued discharge certificates or
have lost them.

Division Transferred

The Surplus Property Accounting Division
of Office of Fiscal Director USFET was
transferred with its assigned civilian and
military personnel to the Office of the For-
eign Liquidation Commission on 1 September.
Military personnel affected by this transfer
are now attached to Western Base Section
for administration.

--- Page 19 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

In view of the large youth Ree) in
the 738 motion picture theaters open in the
Zone, efforts are being made to select US-
produced features and documentaries of re-
orientational value to which German Jouth
may be admitted. All US-produced features
have been designated Jugendfrei (free to
juveniles).

Export sales during the third week of
September included 68,000 dollars worth of
pencils to Belgium, 56,000 dollars worth of
Diesel compressors and 20,000 dollars worth
of carbon brushes to Denmark, 12,000 dollars
worth of high-tension registers and 6,600
dollars worth of ticket punches to Norway
and 1,600 dollars worth of turbine impellers
to England.

Authorization has been issued for tranfer
to the chief finance officer in Bremen of
responsibility for the custody and adminis-
tration of all property in the Bremen Enclave
now under control of MG. This action is
similar to the transfer of property control
responsibilities already completed in the
three Laender of the US Zone.

INTERNEE RELEASE PROGRAM

The Security Review Boards are bringing
to a close their civilian internee release
program as the final steps are being taken
to turn encampments over to the German
authorities. More than 40,000 interned Ger-
mans have actually been released.

The German miners’ union in the US and
British Zones have agreed to work one Sun-
day each month in order that an equivalent
heat value of coal mined on that day will
be available for space heating by German
civilians in the large cities far from fuel
wood supplies.

In the first three weeks of September,
food imported from the United States for
Germans in the US-occupied areas totaled
approximately 26,000 long tons, of which
75 percent were breadgrains and flour.
Another 25,000 tons of breadgrains and
flour were en route from the United States.

16

The Labor Academy at Frankfurt has been
approved by the Ministry of Education in
Greater Hesse. The purpose of the academy
is to provide elementary and higher labor
schooling for prospective labor leaders and
labor educators. The curriculum includes
social politics, constitutional law and social
studies,

CAPTURED ENEMY. MATERIAL

German officials of the newly-created
German corporation Gesellschaft zur Er-
fassung von Ruestungsgut G.m.b.H. will
appraise captured enemy materials schedul-
ed for release to the. German economy. These
valuations will be entered on receipts in
Reichsmarks at the time the materials are
released.

There are 206 Kreis youth commitiees
active in the Zone. All Kreise in Greater
Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden and 126 of
the 142 Kreise in Bavaria have committees.
Among services performed by the Land
youth committees is provision of insurance
for licensed youth groups, covering regular
activities of such groups.

Inventorying of the Daimler-Benz under-
ground aircraft engine plant at Neckarelz,
‘Wuertiemberg-Baden, has been completed.
This marks the end of the evaluating pro-
gram involving 24 plants allocated as ad-
vance reparations to the Soviet Union and
the Western Nations.

TRUCK PRODUCTION

The Daimler-Benz plant at Mannheim is
producing three-ton trucks at a rate of 250
to 300 a month. The present assemblies lack
wheels, tires and headlamp bulbs. In an
effort to improve this situation, 300 wheels
are being procured from Province Branden-
burg in the Soviet Zone.

A total of 5,900 German prisoners of war
are being released to work on salvage of
chemicals from ammunition. A new site
must be found for this program as the
Aschau recovery plant has been allocated to
the Inter-Allied Reparations Agency.

--- Page 20 ---
Zone Licensed Newspapers

Emphasizing Youth Activities

The 40 US-licensed newspapers, with a
total circulation of nearly 4,000,000 average
more than two items in each issue on
youth activities. All newspapers publishing
feuilleton supplements devote at least an
entire page to reports of youth activities and
reorientation material. Die Neue Zeitung,
US-published Zone newspaper with a cir-
culation of approximately 1,500,000, has a
special advisor on youth problems in order
to increase the amount of material for youth.

* * *

America’s foreign policy dominated the
top news in the licensed newspapers in the
US Zone for the third successive week, ac-
cording to the press analysis of the Office
of the Director of Information Control,
OMGUS, for the week 15—22 September.
Centering on the New York speech of Secre-
tary of Commerce Wallace, the stories were
handled cautiously at first but developments
focused more atiention on the American
position. Editorial comment was sparse but
news handling indicated favoritism of editors
for Secretary of State Byrnes.

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) said: “In
recent months, voices have arisen which
warned against overestimating the foreign
political unanimity of the United States.
The isolationists are not yet dead, they said.
and it now becomes clear through the speech
of Commerce Secretary Wallace in New York
that these opponents of the official American
policy not only exist but are resolved to
take the offensive.... If America should
really withdraw to its own continent, the
inevitable result would be a new bloc-build-
ing in Europe.... To us Germans it will
seem as though the unity program of the
nation as presented so emphatically by (Sec-

17

In discussing the One World idea advocat-
ed by Secretary Byrnes as against Mr. Wal-
lace’s “Two Worlds,” the Hessische Nach-
richten (Kassel) said “American isolationism,
which was buried by America’s entry into
the war in 1941... appears resurrected.
... A recognition of a division of the world
and the allocation of spheres of influence
for both great powers might provide a re-
lease in the tension in the present situation.
But was not Munich a textbook example that
such a release of tension means only post-
ponement? The policy of the Foreign Min-
ister (Byrnes), which might have seemed
to have been disavowed temporarily, has
emerged from the crisis strengthened.”

The Badische Neueste Nachrichten (Karls-
ruhe) commented: “The anxious doubts as
to whether the Wallace speech represents a
change in USA policy toward Germany and
Europe and disavows (Secretary) Byrnes,
have been allayed by the statements of
(President) Truman, which represent not
only a triumph for (Mr.) Byrnes, but a
triumph of reason. With (Mr.) Truman’s
demand that (Mr.) Wallace resign and the
subsequent withdrawal of the American
Commerce Minister the last doubt has been

removed.”
* * *

In an attack on rumors concerning food,
the Suedost Kurier (Bad Reichenhall) said:
“For quite a while rumors have been cir-
culating in Bavaria which contended that
butter and other foodstuffs had been sent
to America through black market means. It
is supposed that these rumors constitute prop-
aganda of former Nazis. The press office
of the Bavarian Minister of Agriculture in-
forms the Suedost Kurier that these rumors
have no basis whatsoever.”

--- Page 21 ---
Press Praises Selection of

Harriman for CommercePost

US newspapers generally agreed that the
experience of W. Averill Harriman in
business as well as foreign affairs makes
his choice as Secretary of Commerce a shrewd
and wise one. His statement that he fully
supports President Truman and Secretary
Byrnes in conducting the US foreign policy
along lines laid down by the late President
Roosevelt is acclaimed as indicating unity
within government on foreign affairs.

Amorig the few dissenting voices raised is
that of the Chicago Tribune which is of the
opinion that “all that the change means is that
Russia has lost an advocate in the Cabinet
and Britain has gained one. The American
people are no better off.”

The New York Herald Tribune said in
part: “The appointment amounts to an
emphatic reassertion of the Byrnes policy,
it brings into the Cabinet a man who knows
something at first hand. about our biggest
foreign problem. - It will go at least a good
way in the domestic Democratic Party poli-
tics to cushion the shock of the Wallace
defection. Mr. Harriman is in his own right
an official of ability. Through his long ser-
vice at the center of industrial mobilization,
war and diplomacy, he has steadily grown
in discernment as well as in experience.”

Washington Post: “Continuity with New
Deal and Mr. Roosevelt, a standing in the
business community, a knowledge and ability
in our foreign relations, particularly with
Russia and Britain all these conspire to
make the appointment a wise one... by all
accounts — and his own statement in London
comes as confirmation — he would ‘fight for
peace’ by bettering the world’s livelihood
and propagating ideas of freedom. Only by
so doing can we live up to the responsib-
ilities that destiny has put on our doorstep of

18

PRESS and RADIO COMME

moral as well as uaa

Philadelphia Record: Truman
has made a good appointment. He has
brought unity on foreign policy to the
Cabinet, and named a New Dealer to a vital
domestic post.”

New York Sun: “Here is a man who has
been working closely with Secretary Byrnes
in Paris; who on the basis of his experience
as Ambassador to Moscow as well as_ to
London, sees eye to eye with the Secretary
on America’s foreign policy; and who has
spoken out firmly against appeasement of
Moscow and Sialin.... as he said some
months ago in discussing our policy towards
Russia, he believes the United States must
remain strong, physically and_ spiritually,
‘taking a clear position based on principles
of the United Nations Charter and the prin-
ciples in which American people have pro-
found faith” That is how Secretary Byrnes
and most of his fellow Americans feel.”

Task Facing Congress

Commenting on the need for preparedness
the New York Herald Tribune declared in
a recent editorial: “The end of hostilities
a year ago saw a repetition of a familiar
American prectice — the hasty and dis-
organized tearing down of a great military
machine. The pressure to get men who had
served faithfully and well until victory back
to civilian life was both natural and pol-
itically irresistible. Far less justifiable was
the refusal of Congress to face up to the
need for replacing them, on a sound and
durable basis.

“Meanwhile, however, the world situation
has deteriorated to a point where nearly all
Americans recognize the need a maintaining
the armed services at a high level, not
simply as a sort of thread to hold a paper
army together — as is this country’s usual
peacetime habit — but as a force in being
in time of tension.”

--- Page 22 ---
EISENHOWER

lashing by the press, we felt that at times
such as these the matter of perspective was
lost; that the error which had occurred and
which we remain ready to admit, and as a
matter of fact couldn’t have denied if we
wanted to, was over-emphasized and was
made too important at the expense of the
background of real achievement that was
going on all around us.

I don’t know anything about the press in
the other countries, in Russia, Great Britain,
or France, but our press at home, in the
US, shows on the part.of the press represen-
tatives in the field the determination to
report accurately. The whole press in the
US has swung around to take a more com-
mon sense, definite and objective view of
the job. we have to do here. Possibly that
is the result, as far as I can see it, from the
work of you people in the field. Recently
there was a survey conducted by one of our
national polls and 88 percent of the people
of the US stated that they thoroughly believ-
ed that occupation in Germany and Japan
would have to continue until the purposes
for which we went. to war were fully
achieved. I am quite certain that if you had
put that same question in the same prose at
the time of’ the historical demobilization
when everybody wanted to go home, let’s
say about a year ago today, the answer

(Continued from page 12)

BERLIN ELECTIONS (Continued from page 10)

the other great party of the masses, the
Social Democrats, and make one great work-
ers party. As much as ten months ago it
was openly talked about; in December of
1945 it became a policy, and in January
and February plans were made to complete
the merger. The decision to accomplish the
fusion, while perfunctorily talked over with
various groups of party functionaries, actu-
ally was made by Grotewohl, the head of
the SPD, and Pieck, the head of the KPD.

Opposition was voiced from among the
rank and file of the SPD, and one concept
of Western democracy — that a decision

19

would have been about 20 percent.

My own conviction is you people here in
this area are doing your job. I should like to
include you therefore in my expression of
gratification with the way the job of oc-
cupation is being done. You people as al-
ways have as much responsibility to keep
your public in your various countries prop-
erly, fully and accurately informed as the
Army to carry out the policies that are laid
out by higher authority.

Only one other thought in closing before
your questions is merely this: I should like
to say again we should not despair. .Every
intelligent. person in the world knows. we
can’t stand.another global war. Not just one
country or one section. Civilization cannot
stand another war. It is too much to ask
the world populations to pour their toil,
their sweat, their resources into nothing but
destruction which means only misery, defeat
and sorrow. I personally think we are
making progress in the other direction.
I am certain that every soldier I know who
has been through it is looking forward to
the day when intelligent education and
growth of understanding are going to put
people of my profession permanently out of
a job. I mean all soldiers and by soldiers
I mean all fighting soldiers.

is based on the majority opinion of the
individuals concernéd and not dictated by
the leaders — was given a test. On the last
Sunday in March, the members of the SPD
in the American, British and French Sectors
went to the polls to make their own deci-
sion. By an 80 percent vote of those part-
icipating in the referenda, they declared the
independence of the SPD and completely
repudiated their leaders who had tried
to consummate the deal.

These leaders then declared the fusion an
accomplished fact, because they had decreed
it. But the SED is still the Communist party.

--- Page 23 ---
THE VERDICT (Continued from page 7)

Europe....

With his appointment as Reich Minister
for Occupied Eastern Territories, Rosenberg
became the supreme authority for those
areas. He helped to formulate the policies
of Germanization, exploitation, forced labor,
extermination of Jews and opponents of
Nazi rule, and he set up the administration
which carried them out.... Rosenberg had
knowledge of the brutal treatment and terror
to which the Eastern people were subjected.
He directed that the Hague Rules of Land
Warfare were not applicable in the Occupied
Eastern Territories .... Upon occasion
Rosenberg objected to the excesses and
atrocities committed by his subordinates ....
but these excesses continued and he stayed
in office until the end.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that
Rosenberg is guilty on all four counts
(conspiracy, crimes against peace, wars
crimes, crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Hans Frank

Frank joined the Nazi Party in 1927. He
was made a Reichsleiter of the Nazi Party
in charge of Legal Affairs in 1933, and in
the same year President of the Academy
of German Law. Frank was also given the
honorary rank of Obergruppenfuehrer in the
SA. In 1942 Frank became involved in a
temporary dispute with Himmler as to the
type of legal system which should be in ef-
fect in Germany. During the same year he
was dismissed as Reichsleiter of the Nazi
Party and as President of the Academy of
German Law.

Frank was appointed Chief Civil Adminis-
tration Officer for occupied Polish territory
and on 12 October 1939 was made Governor
General of the occupied Polish territory. On
3 October 1939 he described the policy which
he intended to put into effect by stating:
“Poland shall be treated like a colony; the
Poles will become the slaves of the Greater
German World Empire.” The evidence estab-
lished that this occupation policy was based

on the complete destruction of Poland as a
national entity, and a ruthless exploitation
of its human and economic resources for the
German war effort. All opposition was
crushed with the utmost harshness. A reign
of terror was instituted .. .

Frank introduced the deportation of slave
laborers to Germany in the very early stages
of his administration . . . The persecution
of the Jews was immediately begun in the
General Government .... It.is true that
Frank was a willing and knowing participant
in the use of terrorism in Poland; in the
economic exploitation of Poland in a way
which led to the death by starvation of a
large number of people; in the deportation to
Germany as slave laborers of over a million
Poles; and in a program involving the
murder of at least three million Jews.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that Frank
is not guilty on Count One (conspiracy) but
is guilty on Counts Three and Four (war
crimes, crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Wilhelm Frick

Recognized as the chief Nazi administra-
tive specialist and bureaucrat, he was ap-
pointed Reichsminister of the Interior in
Hitler’s first cabinet. He retained this im-
portant position until August 1943 when ne
was appointed Reich Protector of Bohema
and Moravia .... As the several countries
incorporated into the Reich were overrun,
he was placed at the head of the Centrat
Offices for this incorporation. Though Frick
did not officially join the Nazi Party until
1925, he had previously allied himself with
Hitler and the National Socialist cause dut-
ing the Munich Putsch ... .

An avid Nazi, Frick was largely re-
sponsible for bringing the German Nation
under the complete control of the NSDAP.
After Hitler became Reich Chancellor, the
new Minister of the Interior immediately
began to incorporate local governments
under the sovereignty of the Reich. The
numerous laws he drafted, signed and ad-

--- Page 24 ---
ministered abolished all opposition parties
and prepared the way for the Gestapo and
their concentration camps to extinguish all
individual opposition. He was largely
responsible for the legislation which sup-
pressed the Trade Union, the Church, the
Jews. He performed this task with ruthless
efficiency... .

Frick devised an administrative organiza-
tion in accordance with wartime standards.
According to his own statements, this was
actually put into operation after Germany
decided to adopt a policy of war... .

Always rabidly anti-Semetic, Frick drafted,

signed and administered many laws designed
to eliminate Jews from German life and
economy. His work formed the basis of the
Nuremberg Decrees and he was active in
enforcing them . .. . While he was Reich
Protector of Bohemia and Moravia... . he
issued a decree providing for special penal
laws against Jews and Poles in the General
Government . . Frick bears general
responsibility for the acts of oppression in
that territory after 20 August 1943, such as
terrorism of the population, slave labor, and
the deportation of Jews to the concentration
camps for extermination .... He had knowl-
edge that insane, sick and aged people,
‘useless eaters,” were being systematically
put to death....
* Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that Frick
is not guilty on Count One (conspiracy). He
is guilty of Counts Two, Three and Four
(crimes against peace, war crimes, crimes
against humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Julius Streicher

One of the earliest members of the Nazi
Party, joining in 1921, he took part in the
Munich Putsch. From 1925 to 1940 he was
Gauleiter of Franconia. Elected to the
Reichstag: in 1933, he was an honorary
general in the SA. His persecution of the
Jews was notorious. He was publisher of
“Der Sturmer,” an anti-Semitic weekly
newspaper, from 1923 to 1945 and was its
editor until 1933....

For his twenty-five years of speaking,

21

writing and preaching hatred of the Jews,
Streicher was widely known as “Jew-Baiter
Number One.” In his speeches and arti-
cles .... he infected the German mind with
the virus of anti-Semitism and incited the
German people to active persecution....
Streicher had charge of the Jewish boycott
of 1 April 1933. He advocated the Nurem-
berg Decrees of 1935.... As early as 1938
he began to call for the annihilation of the
Jewish race....

With knowledge of the extermination of
the Jews’ in the Occupied Eastern Territory,
this defendant continued to write and
publish his propaganda of death.... Strei-
cher’s incitement to murder and extermination
at the time when Jews in the East were
being killed under the most horrible con-
ditions clearly constitutes persecution on
political and racial grounds in connection

with wars crimes .... and constitutes a crime
against humanity.
Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that

Streicher is not guilty on Count One (con-
spiracy), but that he is guilty on Count Four
(crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Walter Funk

Funk, who had previously been a finan-
cial journalist, joined the Nazi Party in
1931, and shortly thereafter became one of
Hitler’s personal economic advisors. On
30 January 1933 he was made Press Chief
in the Reich Government, and on 11 March
1933 became Under Secretary in the Ministry
of Propaganda.... He took office as Minis-
ter of Economics and Plenipotentiary Gen-
eral for War Economy in early 1938 and
as President of the Reichsbank in January
1939.... He was made a member of the
Ministerial Council for the Defense of the
Reich in August 1939 and a member of the
Central Planning Board in September 1943.

Funk was active in the economic field
after the Nazi plans to wage aggressive war
had been clearly defined.... On 25 August
1939 he wrote a letier to Hitler expressing
gratitude that he was able to participate

--- Page 25 ---
in.such world-shaking events; that his plans
for the “financing of the war,” for the
control of wage and price conditions and
for the strengthening of the Reichsbank had
been completed; and that he had incon-
spicuously transferred into gold all foreign
exchange resources available to Germany...

Funk participated in the economic plan-
ning which preceded the attack on the
USSR.... Funk himself participated in
planning for the printing of ruble notes in
Germany prior to the attack to serve as oc-
cupation currency in the USSR....

Funk had participated in the early Nazi
program of economic discrimination against
the Jews.... Funk participated in the
economic exploitation of occupied territories.
. - . In the fall of 1943 Funk was a member
of the Central Planning Board which deter-
mined the total number of laborers needed
for German industry, and required Sauckel
to produce them, usually by deportation
from occupied territories.... Funk was also
indirectly involved in the utilization of con-
centration camp labor....

In spite of the fact that he occupied
important official positions, Funk was never
a dominant figure in the various programs
in which he participated. This is a mitigat-
ing fact of which the Tribunal takes notice.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that Funk
is not guilty on Count One (conspiracy) but
is guilty under Counts Two, Three and
Four (crimes. against peace, war crimes,
crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Life imprisonment.

Hjalmar Schacht

Schacht served as commissioner of Cur-
rency and President of the Reichsbank from
1923 to 1930; was reappointed President of
the bank on 17 March 1933; Minister of
Economics in August 1934; and Plenipoten-
tiary General for War Economy in May
1935. He resigned from these two positions
in November 1937 and was appointed
Minister without Portfolio. He was reap-
pointed as President of the Reichsbank for
a one-year term on 16 March 1937 and for
a four-year term on 9 March 1938, but was

dismissed on 20 January 1939. He was dis-
missed as Minister without Portfolio on
22 January 1943.... i

He played an important role in the
vigorous rearmament program .... using the
facilities of the Reichsbank to the fullest
extent .... He made detailed plans for in-
dustrial mobilization and the coordination ‘of
the army with industry in the event of war.
He was particularly concerned with short-
ages of raw materials and started a scheme
of stockpiling and a system of exchange
control designed to prevent Germany’s weak
foreign exchange position from hindering
the acquisition abroad of raw materials
needed for rearmament.... p

Schacht, by April 1936, began to lose his
influence as the central figure in the German
rearmament effort.... On 7 January 1939
Schacht submitted to Hitler a report signeil
by the Directors of the Reichsbank which
urged a drastic curtailment of armameyit
expenditures and a balanced budget as the
only method of preventing inflation. On
19 January Hitler dismissed Schacht ds
President of the Reichsbank.... On 23 July
1944 Schacht was arrested by the Gestapo
and confined in a concentration camp until
the end of the war....

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that
Schacht is not guilty on this Indictment, ard
directs that he shall be discharged by the
Marshal when the Tribunal presently ad-

Journs. Karl Doenitz

In 1935 he took command of the first
U-Boat flotilla commissioned since 1918,
became in 1936 commander of the submarine
arm, was made Vice-Admiral in 1940,
Admiral in 1942, and on 30 January 1943
Commander-in-Chief of the German Navy.
On 1 May 1945 he became the Head of
State, succeeding Hitler.

Although Doenitz built and trained the
German U-Boat arm, the evidence does not
show he was privy to the conspiracy to
wage aggressive wars or that he prepared
and initiated such wars. He was a line officer
performing strictly tactical duties....

. Doenitz did, however, wage aggressive war

--- Page 26 ---
within the meaning of that word as used by
the Charter. Submarine warfare, which
began immediately upon the outbreak of
war, was fully coordinated with the other
branches of the Wehrmacht. It is clear that
his U-Boats, few in number at the time, were
fully prepared to wage war....

The High Seas fleet made a few minor,
if spectacular, raids during the early years
of the war but the real damage to the enemy
was done almost exclusively by his sub-
marines as the millions of tons of Allied and
neutral shipping sunk will testify. Doenitz
was solely in charge of this warefare....
From January 1943, Doenitz was consulted
almost continuously by Hitler.... As late
as April 1945 when he admits he knew the
struggle was hopeless, Doenitz as its Com-
mander-in-Chief urged the Navy to continue
its fight ....

The Tribunal is not prepared to hold
Doenitz guilty for his conduct of submarine
warfare against British armed merchant
ships. However, the proclamation of opera-
tional zones and sinking of neutral merchant
vessels which enter those zones presents 4
different question .... The order of Doenitz
to sink neutral ships without warning when
found within these zones was, in the opinion
of the Tribunal, therefore a violation of the
Protocol (of 1936). ... The evidence further
shows that the rescue provisions were not
carried out and that the defendant ordered
that they should not be carried out....

Conclusion: The tribunal finds Doenitz is
not guilty on Count One (conspiracy), guilty
on Counts Two and Three (crimes against
peace, war crimes).

Sentence: Ten years imprisonement.

Erich Raeder

In 1928 he became Chief of Naval Com-
mand and in 1935 Commander-in-Chief; in
1939 Hitler made him Gross-Admiral. He
was a member of the Reich Defense Council.
... On 30 January 1943 he became Admiral
Inspector of the Navy, a nominal title.

In the 15 years he commanded it, Raeder
built and directed the German Navy; he
accepted full responsibility until retirement

B

in 1943. He admits the Navy violated the
Versailles Treaty, insisting it was “a matter
of honor for every man” to do so, and
alleged that the violations were for the most
part minor, and Germany built less than her
allowable strength.

Raeder received the directive of 24 June
1937 from von Blomberg requiring special
operations for war against Austria.... The
conception of the invasion of Norway first
arose in the mind of Raeder and not that of
Hitler.... Raeder defends his actions on
the ground it was a move to forestall the
British ... Raeder received the directives...
for the attack in the West. In a meeting of
18 March 1941 with Hitler he urged the
occupation of all Greece.... Raeder endeav-
ored to dissuade Hitler from embarking
upon the invasion of the USSR. In Septem-
ber 1940 he urged on Hitler an aggressive
Mediterranean policy as an alternative to an
attack on Russia.... It is clear from this
evidence that Raeder participated in the
planning and waging or aggressive war....

The most serious charge against Raeder is
that he carried out unrestricted submarine
warfare, including sinking of unarmed
merchant ships, of neutrals, non-rescue and
machine-gunning of survivors, contrary to
the London Protocol of 1936. The Tribunal
makes the same finding on Raeder on this
charge as it did as to Doenitz.... up until
30 January 1943 when Raeder retired....
The Commando Order of 18 October 1942...
was transmitted by the Naval War Staff to
the lower naval commanders .... Two com-
mandos were put to death by the navy....
at Bordeaux.... Raeder admits he passed
the order down through the chain of com-
mand, and he did not object to Hitler.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that
Raeder is guilty on Counts One, Two and
Three (conspiracy, war against peace, war
crimes).

Sentence: Life imprisonment.

Baldur von Schirach

He joined the Nazi Party and the SA in
1925. In 1929 he became the Leader of the
National Socialist Students Union. In 1931

--- Page 27 ---
he was made Reich Youth Leader of the
Nazi Party with control over all Nazi youth
organizations including the Hitler Jugend.
...In 1940 von Schirach resigned as head
of the Hitler Jugend and Leader of Youth
in the German Reich, but retained his
position as Reichsleiter with control over
Youth Education. In 1940 he was appointed
Gauleiter of Vienna, Reich Governor of
Vienna and Reich Defense Commissioner
for that territory.

After the Nazis had come to power, von
Schirach, utilizing both physical violence
and official pressure, either drove out of
existence or took over all youth groups
which competed with the Hitler Jugend....
Von Schirach used the Hitler Jugend to
educate German youth “in the spirit of
National Socialism” and subjected them to
an intensive program of Nazi propaganda.
He established the Hitler Jugend as a source
of replacements for the Nazi Party forma-
tions.... Von Schirach also used the Hitler
Jugend for premilitary training .... Despite
the warlike nature of the activities of the
Hitler Jugend, however, it does not appear
that von Schirach was involved in the
development of Hitler’s plan for territorial
expansion by means of aggressive war, or
that he participated in the planning or prep-
aration of any of the wars of aggression ....

FOSTERED DEPORTATION

When von Schirach became Gauleiter of
Vienna the deportation of the Jews had
already been begun, and only 60,000 out of
Vienna’s original 190,000 Jews remained. ...
The Tribunal finds that von Schirach, while
he did not originate the policy of deporting
Jews from Vienna, participated in this de-
portation after he became Gauleiter of
Vienna.... In the summer of 1942 von
Schirach telegraphed Bormann urging that a
bombing attack on an English cultural town
be carried out in retaliation for the assas-
sination of Heydrich which, he claimed, had
been planned by the British.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that von
Schirach is not guilty on Count {One

24

(conspiracy). He is guilty under Count
Four (crimes against humanity).
Sentence: Twenty years imprisonment.
Fritz Sauckel

Sauckel joined the Nazi Party in 1923
and became Gauleiter of Thuringia in
1927 .... He became a member of the
Reichstag in 1933. He held the formal rank
of Obergrupenfuehrer in both the SA and
the SS.

On 21 March 1942 Hitler appointed
Sauckel Plenipotentiary General for the
Utilization of Labor, with authority to put
under uniform control “the utilization of
all ‘available manpower, including that of
workers recruited abroad and of prisoners
of war.”.... Under the authority which he
obtained.... Sauckel set up a program for
the mobilization of labor resources available
to the Reich. One of the important parts
of this mobilization was the systematic ex-
ploitation, by force, of the labor resources
of the occupied territories.... That real
voluntary recruiting was the exception
rather than the rule is shown by Sauckel’s
statement on 1 March 1944, that “out of five
million foreign workers who arrived in Ger-
many not even 200,000 came voluntarily.” . . .

There is no doubt, however, that Sauckel
had over-all responsibility for the slave
labor program. At the time of the events
in question he did not fail to assert control
over the field which he now claims were the
sole responsibility of others.... He was
aware of ruthless methods being, taken to
obtain laborers, and vigorously supported
them.... He was informed of the bad
conditions which existed....

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that
Sauckel is not guilty on Counts One and
Two (conspiracy, crimes against peace). He
is guilty under Counts Three and Four (wars
crimes, crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Alfred Jodl

From 1935 to 1938 he was chief of the
National Defense Section in the High Com-
mand, In August 1939 he became Chief of
the Operations Staff of the High ‘Command

--- Page 28 ---
of the Armed Forces. Although his immed-
iate superior was defendant Keitel, he re-
ported directly to Hitler on operational
matters. In the strict military sense, Jodl
was the actual planner of the war and
responsible in large measure for the strat-
egy and conduct of operations....

Entries in Jodl’s diary.... show Hitler
instructed both him and Keitel to keep up
military pressure against Austria).... In
planning the attack on Czechoslovakia, Jodl
was very active.... Jodl discussed the
Norway invasion with Hitler, Keitel and
Raeder on 12 December 1939; his diary is

replete with later entries on his activities —

in preparing this attack.... He was active
in the planning against Greece and Yugo-
slavia.... Jodl destified that Hitler
feared an attack by Russia and so attacked
first. This preparation began a year before
the invasion.

MEMORANDUM SIGNED BY JODL

On 18 October. 1942 Hitler issued the
Commando Order and a day later a supple-
mentary explanation to commanding officers
only. The covering memorandum was signed
by Jodl.... There is little evidence that
Jodl was actively connected with the slave
labor program, and he must have concen-
trated on his strategic planning functions... .
By teletype of 28 October 1944 Jodl ordered
the evacuation of all persons in Northern
Norway and burning of their houses so they
could not help the Russians.... On 7 Oc-
tober 1941 Jodl signed an order that Hitler
would not accept an offer of surrender of
Leningrad or Moscow, but on the contrary
he insisted that they be completely destroy-
ed.... No surrender was ever offered....

There is nothing in mitigation. Participa-
tion in such crimes as these has never been
required of any soldier and he cannot now
shield himself behind a mythical require-
ment of soldierly obedience: at all costs as
his excuse for commission of these crimes.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that Jodl
is guilty of all four counts (conspiracy,
crimes against peace, war crimes, crimes

25

against humanity).
Sentence: Death by hanging.
Franz von Papen

He was appointed Chancellor of the Reich
on 1 June 1932 and was succeeded by von
Schleicher on 2 December 1932. He was
made Vice Chancellor in the Hitler Cabinet
on 30 January 1933 and on 13 November
1933 Plenipotentiary for the Saar. On
26 July 1934 he was appointed Minister to
Vienna and was recalled on 4 February 1938.
On 29 April 1939 he was appointed Ambas-
sador to Turkey. He returned to Germany
when Turkey broke off diplomatic relations
with Germany in August 1944.

Von Papen was active in 1932 and 1933
in helping Hitler to form the Coalition Cab-
inet and aided in his appointment as Chan-
cellor.... As Vice Chancellor in that
Cabinet he participated in the Nazi consoli-
dation of control in 1933.... On 30 June
1934, in the wave of violence which accom-
panied the so-called Rohem Purge, von
Papen was taken into custody by the SS....
Von Papen was released on 3 July 1934....
Von Papen accepted the position of Minister
to Austria.... A letter from Hitler....
instructed him to direct relations between
the two countries “into normal and friendly
channels” and assured him of Hitler’s
“complete and unlimited confidence.” ...
No evidence has been offered showing that
von Papen was in favor of the decision to
occupy Austria by force, and he has testified
that he urged Hitler not to take this step... .
He accepted the position of Ambassador to
Turkey .... but no evidence has been offered
concerning his activities in that position
implicating him in crimes.

The evidence leaves no doubt that von
Papen’s primary purpose as Minister to
Austria was to undermine the Schuschnigg
regime and strengthen the Austrian Nazis
for the purpose of bringing about Anschluss.
In carrying through this plan he engaged
in both intrigue and bullying. But the
Charter does not make criminal such offenses
against political morality, however, bad
these may be....

--- Page 29 ---
Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that von
Papen is not guilty under this Indictment,
and directs that he shall be discharged by
the Marshal, when the Tribunal presently

adjourns. Albert Speer

Speer joined the Nazi Party in 1932. In
1934 he was made Hitler’s architect and
became a close personal confidant.... On
15 February 1942.... Speer was appointed
Chief of the Organization Todt and Reich
Minister for Armaments and Munitions
(after 2 September 1943, for Armaments and
War Production). The positions were
supplemented by his appointments in March
and April 1942 as General Plenipotentiary
for Armaments and as a member of the
Central Planning Board, both within the
Four Year Plan. Speer was a member of
the Reichstag from 1941 until the end of
the war.

The Tribunal is of opinion that Speer’s ac-
tivities do not amount to initiating, planning
or preparing wars of aggression, or of con-
spiring to that end.... The evidence intro-
duced against Speer under Counts Three and
Four relates entirely to his participation in
the slave labor program. Speer himself had
no direct administrative responsibility for
this program.... Speer had _ extensive
authority over production. His original
authority was over construction and produc-
tion of arms for the OKW. This was progres-
sively expanded to include naval armaments,
civilian production and finally.... air ar-
mament....

The practice was developed under which
Speer transmitted to Sauckel an estimate of
the total number of workers needed, Sauckel
obtained the labor and allocated it to the
various industries in accordance with in-
structions supplied by Speer. Speer knew
when he made his demands on Sauckel that
they would be supplied from foreign laborers
serving under compulsion... .

Speer... established the so-called “block-
ed industries” in the occupied territories
which were used to produce goods to be
shipped to Germany. Employees of these in-
dustries were immune from deportation to

26

Germany ds slave laborers and any worker.
who had been ordered to go to Germany
could avoid deportation if he went to work
for a blocked industry. This system, al-
though somewhat less inhumane than deport-
ation to Germany, was still illegal ....

Speer was also directly involved in the
utilization of forced labor as Chief of the
Organization Todt. The Organization Todt
functioned principally in the occupied areas
on such projects as the Atlantic Wall and
the construction of military highways, and
Speer has admitted that he relied on compul-
sory service to keep it adequately staffed...
Speer was also involved in the use of prison-
ers of war in armament industries but con-
tends he only utilized Soviet prisoners of
war in industries covered by the Geneva
Convention. ... :

In mitigation it must be recognized that
Speer’s establishment of blocked industries
did keep many laborers in their homes and
that in the closing stages of the war he was
one of the few men who had the courage to
tell Hitler that the war was lost and to take
steps to prevent the senseless destruction of
production facilities, both in occupied ter-
ritories and in Germany. He carried out his
opposition to Hitler’s scorched earth program
in some of the western countries and in Ger-
many by deliberately sabotaging it at con-
siderable personal risk. :

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that Speer
is not guilty on Counts One and Two (con-
spiracy, crimes against peace), but is guilty:
under Counts Three and Four (wars crimes,
crimes against. humanity).

Sentence: Twenty years imprisonment.

Constantin von Neurath

He is a professional diplomit..... On
2 June 1932 he was apopinted Minister of
Foreign Affairs in the von Papen cabinet, a
position which he held under the cabinets of
von Schleicher and Hitler. Von Neurath
resigned.... on 4 February 1938 and was
made Reich Minister without Portfolio,
president of the Secret Cabinet Council and
a member of the Reich Defense Council. On
18 March 1939 he was appointed Reich Pro-

--- Page 30 ---
tector for Bohemia and Moravia, and served
in this capacity until 27 September 1941. He
held the formal rank of Obergruppenfuehrer
in the SS.

As Minister of Foreign Affairs, von Neu-
rath advised Hitler in connection with the
withdrawal from the Disarmament Con-
ference and the League of Nations on 14 Oc-
tober 1933; the institution of rearmament; the
passage on 16 March 1935 of the law for
universal military service; and the passage
on 21 May 1935 of the secret Reich Defense
Law. He was a key figure in the negotiation
of the Naval Accord entered into between
Germany and England on 18 June 1935. He
played an important part in Hitler’s decision
to reoccupy the Rhineland on 7 March
1936...

HAGUE CONVENTION APPLICABLE

Von Neurath was appointed Reich Pro-.

tector for Bohemia and Moravia.... The oc-
cupation of Bohemia and Moravia must....
be considered a military occupation covered
by the rules of warfare. Although Czecho-
slovakia was not a party to the Hague Con-
vention of 1907, the rules of land warfare
expressed in this Convention are declaratory
of existing international law and hence are
applicable ....

Von Neurath instituted an administration
in Bohemia and Moravia similar to that in
effect in Germany.... In August 1939 von
Neurath issued a proclamation warning
against any acts of sabotage.... When the
war broke out.... 8,000 prominent Czechs
were arrested.... and put into protective
custody. Many of this group died in con-
centration camps as a result of mistreatment.
In October and November 1939 Czechoslovak
students held a series of demonstrations. As
a result, on Hitler’s orders, all universities
were closed, 1,200 students imprisoned and
the nine leaders of the demonstration shot by
Security Police and SD....

In mitigation it must be remembered that
he did intervene with the Security Police
and SD for the release of many of the
Czechoslovakians who were arrested on

27

1 September 1939, and for the release of
students arrested later in the’ fall. ' On
23 September 1941 he was summoned before
Hitler and told that he was not being harsh
enough and that Heydrich was being sent to
the Protectorate to combat the Czechoslo-
vakian resistance groups. Von Neurath
attempted to dissuade Hitler from sending
Heydrich and when he was not successful
offered to resign. When his resignation was
not accepted he went on leave on 27 Sep-
tember 1941 and refused to act as Protector
after that date. His resignation was formally
accepted in August 1943.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that von
Neurath is guilty under all four counts
(conspiracy, crimes against peace, war
crimes, crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Fifteen years imprisonment.

Hans Fritzsche

He was best known as a radio com-
mentator.... In 1932.... he was made the
head of the Wireless News Service, a Reich
Government agency. When on 1 May 1933
this agency was incorporated by the National
Socialists into their Reich Ministry of
Popular Enlightenment and Propaganda,
Fritzsche became a member of the Nazi
Party and went to that Ministry. In Decem-
ber 1938 he became head of the Home Press
Division of the Ministry; in October 1942
he was promoted to the rank of Ministerial
Director.... He was, in November 1942,
made head of the Radio Division of the
Propaganda Ministry and Plenipotentiary
for the Political Organization of the Greater
German Radio.

As head of the Home Press Division,
Fritzsche supervised the German press of
2,300 daily newspapers.... He was, how-
ever, subordinate to Dietrich, the Reich
Press Chief, who was in turn a subordinate to
Goebbels. It was Dietrich who received the
directives to the press of Goebbels and other
Reich Ministers, and prepared them as
instructions, which he then handed to
Fritzsche for the press.... Fritzsche had no
control of the formulation of these propa-
ganda policies. He was merely a conduit to

--- Page 31 ---
the press: of the instructions handed him
by Dietrich.... His position and official
duties were mat sufficiently important. .
to infer that he took part in originating or
formulating propaganda campaigns.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that
Fritzsche is not guilty under this Indict-
ment, and directs that he shall be discharged
by the Marshal when the Tribunal presently
ad journs,

Artur Seyss-Inquart

Seyss-Inquart, an Austrian attorney, was
appointed State Councillor in Austria in
May 1937 as a result of German pressure.
He had been associated with the Austrian
Nazi Party since 1931, but had often had
difficulties with that party and did not
actually join the Nazi Party until 13 March
1938. ..:. Seyss-Inquart participated in the
last stages of the Nazi intrigue which pre-
ceded the German occupation of Austria,
and was made Chancellor of Austria as a
result of German. threat of invasion....
Seyss-Inquart’s title was changed to Reich
Governor of Austria on 15 March 1938, and
on the same day he was given the title of a
General in the SS. He was made a Reich
Minister without Portfolio on 1 May 1939...

As Reich Governor of - Austria, Seyss-
Inquart instituted a program of confiscating
Jewish property .... Political opponents of
the Nazis were. sent to concentration-camps
by the Gestapo, mistreated and often killed.
In September 1939- Seyss-Inquart. was ap-
pointed Chief of Civil Administration . of
South Poland. On 12:October 1939 Seyss-
Inquart was made Deputy Governor General
of the General Government of Poland under
Frank. On 18 May 1940 Seyss-Inquart was
appointed Reich. Commissioner for occupied
Netherlands. In these positions he assumed
responsibility for governing territory which
had been assumed’ by aggressive wars and
the administration of which’ was of vital
importance in the aggressive war being
waged by Germany.

As Deputy Governor. General of — the
General: Government’ of: Poland, ‘Seyss-
Inquart was a support for the harsh oc-

cupation policies which were put in. effect.
.. As Reich Commissioner for Occupied
Netherlands, Seyss-Inquart was ruthless in
applying terrorism to suppress all opposi-
tion to the German, occupation, a program
which he described as “annihilating” his
opponents. ... Seyss-Inquart carried out the
economic administration of the Netherlands
without regard for rules of the Hague Con-
vention which he described as obsolete... .
During. the occupation over 500,000 people
were sent from the Netherlands to the Reich
as laborers and only a very small proportion
were actually volunteers. One of Seyss-
Inquart’s first steps.... was to put into
effect a series of laws imposing economic
discriminations: against the Jews...,;
finally... the mass deportation of almost
120,000 ‘of Holland’s 140,000 Jews to
Auswitz and the “final solution.” ... .

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that Seyss-
Inquart is guilty under Counts Two, Three
and. Four (crimes against peace, war crimes,
crimes against humanity). Seyss-Inquart is
not guilty on Count One (conspiracy).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

* Martin Bormann

He joined the National Socialist Party in
1925, was a member of the Staff. of-:the
Supreme Command of the SA. from’ 1928 to
1930, was in charge of the Aid Fund of the
Party.:and ,was Reichsleiter from. 1933° to
1945. ‘From 1933 to 1941. he was Chief of
Staff in the Office of the. Fuehrer’s Deputy
and, .after the flight of Hess to England,
became Head: of the Party Chancellery. on
12 May 1941. On 12 April 1943 he became
Secretary to the Fuehrer. He was political
and organizational head of the Volkssturm
and a General in the SS.

Bormann, in‘the beginning a minor Nazi,
steadily rose to. a position of power and,
particularly in the closing days, of. great
influence over. Hitler: ‘He was active in the
Party’s rise to power and. even more so in
the consolidation of that power. He devoted
much of his time to the. persecution of the
ehurches and of the Jews within Germany.
The evidence does not’ show that Bormann

--- Page 32 ---
knew of Hitler’s plans to prepare, initiate
or wage aggressive wars....

“ On 1 December 1942 all Gaue became
Reich Defense districts and the Party Gau-
leiters responsible to Bormann were ap-
pointed Reich Defense Commissioners... .
Through this mechanism Bormann controlled
the ruthless exploitations of the subjected
populace. His order of 12 August 1942
placed all party agencies at the disposal of
Himmler’s program for forced resettlement
and denationalization of persons in the oc-
cupied countries. ... Bormann was extremely
active in the persecution of the Jews not
only in Germany but also in the absorbed or
conquered countries. ... Bormann was prom-
inent in the-slave labor program.... Bor-
mann also issued a series of orders to the
Party leaders dealing with the treatment of
prisoners of war.... Bormann is responsible
for the lynching of Allied airmen....

His counsel .... has argued that Bormann
is dead and that the Tribunal should not
avail itself of Article 12 of the Charter which
gives it the right to take proceedings
in absentia. But the evidence of death is
not conclusive, and the Tribunal:... deter-
mined to try him in absentia, If Bormann
is not dead and is later apprehended, the
Control Council for Germany may, under
Article 29 of the Charter, consider any facts
jn mitigation, and alter or reduce his
sentence, if deemed proper.

Conclusion: The Tribunal finds that Bor-
mann is not guilty on Count One (con-
spiracy), but is guilty on Counts Three and
Four (war crimes, crimes against humanity).

Sentence: Death by hanging.

Leadership Corps of the Nazi Party

Conclusion: The Leadership corps was
used for purposes which were criminal under
the Charter and involved the Germanization
of incorporated territory, the persecution of
the Jews, the administration of the slave
labor program, and the mistreatment of pris-
oners of war.... The Gauleiters, the Kreis-
leiters, and the Ortsgruppenleiters partici-
pated, to one degree or another, in these
criminal programs. The Reichsleitung as the

staff organization of the Party is also respon-
sible for these criminal programs as well as
the heads of the various staff organizations
of the Gauleiters and Kreisleiters. The
decision of the Tribunal on these staff or-
ganizations include only the Amtsleiter who
were heads of offices on the staffs of the
Reichsleitung, Gauleitung and Kreisleitung.
With respect to other staff Officers and
party organizations attached to the Leader-
ship Corps other than the Amtsleiters re-
ferred to above the Tribunal will follow
the suggestion of the Prosecution in ex-
cluding them from the declaration.

The Tribunal declares to be criminal within
the meaning of the Charter the group com-
posed of those members of the Leadership
Corps holding the positions enumerated in
the preceding paragraph who became or
remained members of the organization with
knowledge that it was being used for the
commission of acts declared criminal by Ar-
ticle 6 of the Charter, or who were. per-
sonally implicated as members of the or-
ganization in the commission of such crimes.
The basis of this finding is the participation
of the organization in war crimes and crimes
against humanity connected with the war;
the group declared criminal cannot include,
therefore, persons who had ceased to hold
the positions enumerated in the preceding
paragraph prior to 1 September 1939.

Gestapo and SD

Conclusion: The Gestapo (Die Geheime
Staatspolizei) and SD (Der Sicherheitsdienst
des Reichsfuehrer SS) were used for pur-
poses which were criminal under the Charter
involving the persecution and extermination
in the administration of the Jews, brutalities
and killings in concentration camps, excesses
in the administration of occupied territories,
the administration of the slave labor
program and the mistreatment and murder
of prisoners of war.... In dealing with the
Gestapo the Tribunal includes all executive
and administrative officials of Amt IV.of the
RSHA or concerned with Gestapo adminis-
tration in other departments of the RSHA
and all local Gestapo officials serving. both

--- Page 33 ---
inside and outside of Germany, including
the members of the Frontier Police, but: not
including the members of the Border and
Customs Protection or the Secret Field
Police, except such members as have been
specified above. At the suggestion of the
Prosecution the Tribunal does not include
persons employed by the Gestapo for purely
clerical, stenographic, janitorial or similar
unofficial routine tasks. In dealing with the
SD the Tribunal includes Amts III, VI and
VII of the RSHA and all other members of
the SD, including all local representatives
and agents, honorary or otherwise, whether
they were technically members of the SS or
not.

The Tribunal declares to be criminal
within the meaning of the Charter the group
composed of those members of the Gestapo
and SD holding the positions enumerated in
the preceding paragraph who became or re-
mained members of the organization with
knowledge that it was being used for the
commission of acts declared criminal by Ar-
ticle 6 of the Charter, or who were per-
sonally implicated as members of the or-
ganization in the commision of such crimes.
The basis for this finding is the participation
of the organization in war crimes and crimes
against humanity connected with the war;
this group declared criminal cannot include,
therefore, persons who had ceased to hold
the positions enumerated in the preceding
paragraph prior to 1 September 1939.

(Later addition.) The Tribunal’s attention
has been drawn to the fact that the Prosecu-
tion expressly excluded honorary informers
who were not members of the SS, and mem-
bers of the Abwehr who were transferred to
the SD. In view of that exclusion by the
Prosecution, the Tribunal also excludes those
persons from the SD which was declared

criminal.

Ss

The SS Die Schutzstatfeln der National-
sozialistischen Deutschen Arbeiterpartei) was
utilized for purposes which were criminal
under the Charter involving the persecution

30

and extermination of the Jews, brutalities
and killings in concentration camps, excesses
in the administration of occupied territories,
the administration of the slave labor program
and the mistreatment and murder of pri-
soners of war.... In dealing with the SS
the Tribunal includes all persons who had
been officially accepted as members of thé
SS including’ the members of the Allgemeiné
SS, members of the Waffen SS, members of
the SS Totenkopf Verbaende and the mem;
bers of any of the different police forces who
were members of the SS. The Tribunal does
not include the so-called SS riding units...

The Tribunal declares to ‘be criminal
within the meaning of the Charter the group
composed of those persons who had been
officially accepted as members of the SS ag
enumerated in the preceding paragraph who
became or remained members of the organiz-
ation with knowledge that it was being used
for the commission of acts declared implicat-
ed as members of the organization in thé
commission of such crimes, excluding, how:
ever, those who were drafted into member-
ship by the State in such a way as to give
them no choice in the matter, and who had
committed no such crimes. The basis of this
finding is the participation of the organ-
ization in war crimes and crimes against
humanity connected with the war; this group
declared criminal cannot include, therefore,
persons who had ceased to belong to the or+
ganization enumerated in the preceding par-
agraph prior to 1 September 1939.

SA

Conclusion: Up until the purge beginning
on 30 June 1934, the SA Die Sturmabteilung
der Nationalsozialistischen Deutschen Ar-
beiterpartei) was composed in large part of
ruffians and bullies who participated in the
Nazi outrages of that period. It has not
been shown, however, that these atrocities
were part of a specific plan to wage aggres-
sive war, and the Tribunal therefore cannot
hold that these activities were criminal under
the Charter. After the purge, the SA was
reduced to the status of a group of unimpor-
tant Nazi hangers-on, Although in’ specife

--- Page 34 ---
instances some units of the SA were used for
the commission of War Crimes and Crimes
against Humanity, it cannot be said that its
members generally participated in or even
knew of the criminal acts. For these reasons
the Tribunal does not declare the SA to be a
criminal organization within the meaning of
Article 9 of the Charter.
Reich Cabinet

The Tribunal is. of opinion that no decla-
ration of criminality should be made with
respect to the Reich Cabinet for two reasons:
(1) because it is not shown that after 1937 it
ever really acted as a group or organization;

Tribunal’s Decisions at a Glance

Key —

1 — Conspiracy

2 — Crimes against peace

3 — War crimes

4 — Crimes against humanity

xX — Guilty

0 — Not guilty

— No charge
Defendant 1 2 3 4 Sentence
Goering x xX X X Death
Hess x X 0 0 Life
Ribbentrop xX X X & Death
Keitel x X X xX Death
Kaltenbrunner 0 — X X Death
Rosenberg xX X X &X Death
Frank 0 — X X Death
Frick 0x X X Death
Streicher 0 — — X Death
Funk 0x X &X Life
Schacht 0 0 — — Acquitted
Doenitz 0X X — 10 years
Raeder x xX X — Life
Von Schirach 0 — — X 20 years
Sauckel 0 0x X Death
Jodl xX <x X X Death
Von Papen 0 0 — — Acquitted
Speer 0 0X xX 20 years
Von Neurath X X X X 15 years
Fritzsche 0 — 0 0 Acquitted
Seyss-Inquart 0 X X X Death
Bormann 0 — X X Death

31

(2) because the group of persons here
charged is so small that members could be
conveniently tried in proper cases without
resort to a declaration that the Cabinet of
which they were members was criminal.

General Staff and High Command

The Tribunal believes that no declaration
of criminality should be made with respect
to the General Staff and High Command.
The number of persons charged, while larger
than that of the Reich Cabinet, is still so
small that individual trials of these officers
would acomplish the purpose here sought
better than a declaration such as requested.
But a more compelling reason is that in the
opinion of the Tribunal the General Staff
and High Command is neither an “organ-
ization” nor a “group” within the meaning
of those terms as used in Article 9 of the
Charter....

Although the Tribunal is of the opinion
that the term “group” in Article 9 must
mean something more than this collection of
military officers, it has heard much evidence
as to the participation of these officers in
planning and waging aggressive war, and in
committing war crimes and crimes against
humanity .... This evidence is, as to many
of them, clear and convincing.... Where
the facts warrant it, these men should be
brought to trial sq that those among them
who are guilty of these crimes should not
escape punishment.

* * *

The Soviet delegation of the Tribunal dis-
sented on the following points: the acquittal
of Hjalmar Schacht, Franz von Papen and
Hans Fritzsche, declaring they should have
been convicted; the sentence of Rudolf Hess
to life imprisonment, declaring he should
have been sentenced do death; and maintain-
ed that the Reich Cabinet and General Staff
and High Command should have been declar-
ed criminal organizations.

--- Page 35 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for
‘Wiirttemberg-Baden ©

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co

*SK Stuttgart
*LK Béblingen
*LK Esslingen
*LK Ludwigsburg
*LK Waiblingen
*LK Backnang
*LK Leonberg
*LK Niirtingen
*LK Vaihingen

*SK/LK Heidelberg
*SK/LK Heidelberg
*LK Buchen

*LK Mosbach

*LK Tauberbischofsheim
*LK Sinsheim

*SK/LK Karlsruhe
*SK/LK Pforzheim
*LK Bruchsal

*SK/LK Heilbronn
*LK Crailsheim
*LK Schw. Hall
*LK Kuenzelsau
*LK Mergentheim
*LK Ochringen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)
Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area

sare
Esslingen
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Leonberg
Niirtingen
Vaihingen

Heidelberg Area

Heidelberg
Mannheim

Buchen

Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
Sinsheim

Karlsruhe Area

Karlsruhe
Pforzheim
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area

Heilbronn
Crailsheim

Schw. Hall
Kuenzelsau

Bad Mergentheim
Oehringen

32

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Ee one Governor
Maj C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Col W W Dawson

Lt Col M O Edwards
1st Lt J B Clifford

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst

Capt N Semaschko, Jr
Maj R A Morgen
Capt J B Cress

Capt R Forrest

Capt W J Vallazza
Maj J F Capell

Capt A Smi

L

1 C H Rue
Capt C van Zelfden
Capt I D Claxton
Capt N W Barber
Capt K R Plessner

Lt Col W T Burt
Maj R H Stimson
Capt R C Stenson

Lt Col C H West
Ist Lt R E Alley
Capt C S Keena
Capt C E McGaffey
Capt B V Bloom
Capt G H Caple

--- Page 36 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Goeppingen ‘
*SK/LK ‘ in
*LK Aalen

*LK Schw. Gmuend
*LK Heidenheim

Office of Mil. Gov. a
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Majntaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen.
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

‘ Goeppingen Area
Goeppingen
Ulm
Aalen
Schw. Gmuend
Heidenheim

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen,
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim ,
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar —
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
-Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege _
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen

33

Lt Col A G Spitz
Maj M L Hoover
Maj S B Simpson
Maj R Lascoe -
Capt RN Tharp

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
1st Lt Irving Ittuer
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj GC Sola.
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Capt R E Brandt
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz

Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Capt G E Schmoker
Maj W C.Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C H Reed
Lt.Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E E Covell
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt N C Neider
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj R A Gish
Capt R O Didlo
Maj D M Easterday.

--- Page 37 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Commandant
Hq & Sv Company

Co A

*SK/LK Wurzbur,
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen
*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lohr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt (Saale)
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont’d)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

Munich

Munich

Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Worzbur,
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall ,
Maj C F Russe
Capt C R Argo
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt. Willard Seale
Maj F Dunn

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Maj R W Smith’
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R W Jernigin
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Capt A G Prondzinski
Capt G E Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt W _W Jamies
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt C Boden

Capt L K Owens
Capt T F Griffin
Capt E E Kelly
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt M B' Jaeger
Capt I A Lowell’

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B

SK/LK Nurnberg

*SK/LK Bamber,

*SK/LK Bayreut!

*SK/LK Erlangen

*SK/LK Neustadt & Coburg
*LK Kronach

*SK/LK Hof

*SK/LK Ansbach

*SK/LK Furth

*LK Lichtenfels & SK Staffelstein
*LK Ebermannstadt

*LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*SK/LK Kulmbach

*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Neustadt
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Munchberg

34

Col E M Haight

Lt Col A T Callicot
Lt Col J R Case

Lt Col S M Guild
Lt Col F Robie
Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund
Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R T Boyer
Capt C E Palmer
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt M G Stamatis
Maj R C Anderson

--- Page 38 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

. , DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont’d)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunasiedel
*LK Forchheim.
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hilpolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach .
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf .

*LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden
*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen
*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
“LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
“*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

“*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

™ Liaison and Security

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld .
indsheim.
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch -
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Regensbur,
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf.
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

35

Capt L De Ford
Maj T Cleary

Maj H Zurn .
Capt J S Wyatt Jr
Capt R J Towle
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Lt Col J C Barnet
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer :
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt J J Carr

Maj C J Cody.
Capt G N Hultzen
1st Lt L W Dilzard

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Lt Col O D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Maj H L Snapp

Maj R E Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek

Lt Col C L McMackin
1st Lt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Crowley
Maj E O Carlson
Capt L R Mariels
Capt D S Field

Capt R O Woodward
Maj H A Hardt

Capt M Glossop
Capt R M McWorther
Capt G L Milner
Capt T O Rose

1st Lt N Ugland

Lt Col G H Foster
Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj F B Marshall
Capt M J Jarvis

Maj D L O’Roark
Maj T G Shakelford
Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Capt F Traynham
Maj L P Rhodes

Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj E Fichter

Capt A G Albert
Maj R T Coykendall
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson, Jr
Ist Lt G L Thomas
Maj J J Maher, Jr
Lt Col J R Hector
2nd Lt P A Nesbitt
Maj R E Levy.

Maj J F
Ist Lt K ea oie Jr

--- Page 39 ---
DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

CoE Munich Lt Col R J Philpott :
*SK/LK Munich Munich Lt Col E Keller
*SK/LK Freising Freising Lt Col HE Blak.
*LK Miesbach: Miesbach Maj M Dizdar
*LK Traunstein Traunstein Capt V L Thom
*LK -Altoetting Altoetti Capt C A Larimer
*SK/LK Rosenheim Rosenheii Capt R H Necal
*LK Garmisch-Pantenkirshem Partenkirchen Maj M W Nitz
*SK/LK Ingolstadt Ingolstadt Lt Col J H Kelly
*LK Erding Erding Maj C A Brown”
*LK Laufen Laufen Capt N W Borring
*LK Muhldorf Muhldorf Capt W M Forys”
*LK Wasserburg Wasserburg Capt D Root
*LK Toelz Bad Toelz Maj A O Froede
*LK Aibling Bad Aibling Maj E J H Newmeyer
*LK Fuerstenfeldbryck Fuerstenfeldbruck Ist Lt C C Boatright
*LK Landsber, ia Landsberg Maj C A Rein .
*LK Pfaffenhéten Pfaffenhofen Maj H E Reed
*LK Starnberg Starnberg Maj C E Carlsen
*LK Weilheim Weilbeim Capt M J Groves
*LK Wolfratshausen Wolfratshausen Maj P L Steers Jr
*LK Berchtesgaden Berchtesgaden Maj M Mawrence
*LK Ebersberg Ebersberg Capt E J Pennetto
*LK Aichach Aichach Maj M A Potter
*LK Schrobenhausén Schrobenhausen Capt H J Bierman
*LK Dachau : Dachau Maj A G Snow
*LK Schongau) ! Schongau Capt C S Garber

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu

*LK Sonthofen
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Donauworth
*LK Gunzberg ©
*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen |
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Rerlin District. ,

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen

Neu Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauworth
Gunzber,

Markt Gberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Tllertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 155)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

36

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R J Paul

Lt Col C E Gooding
Maj J E Rhea

Maj R A Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Maj M G Norum

1st Lt H_ V. Worthington
Ist Lt M W Toepfer
Capt L A Proper
Maj H M Sebastian
Maj B Peshmalyan
Capt J N Urtes

Capt F W Guzak
Capt J O Renalds
Maj A E Elliot

Capt J M Woodwart
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Lt Col Gordon Browning
Lt Col L S Diggs