--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
WALOECK

FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR

HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

{
BIEDEN-
OPF

MARBURG

ALSFELD

way
BODINGEN

GELNHAUSEN

GIESSEN

OBER ©
LAHNKREIS

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAe
HEILBRONN

TAUBER BISCH -~
OFSHEIM

BACKNANG

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

eo |
NFO MANION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Salvage Program to Obtain Critical Construction Materials. .
Specimen Card of USFET Registered Travel Authority for Corre-
spondents . pbooododooo oo eb oo OD
Availability Information

Personnel Inventory of the Army 15 November 1946 .

Class VI Supplies .

Elimination of Nonprofitable Military Personnel.

Report for Regular Army Enlisted Men Voluntarily Extending Term of
Enlistment to 3 Years. : DO 50
Belgian Communal Elections .
Unidentified Household Goods
Vehicle Licensing Program .
Ammunition Supply

Shipment of Non-Citizen Dependents’ Household Effects .

Officers in Charge of Swiss Tour Groups

Application of the Salary Differential

Assignment and Movement of Troops in European Theater
Clearance of Personnel for Cryptographic Duties

Conversion and Redesignation of Certain Quartermaster Corps Units
Reporting of Subversive and Disaffected Personnel .

Issuance of Perishable Subsistence .

Operating Procedures between Occupational (970th) Counter Intelli-
gence Corps and Military Government 5 oOo 000

AG 400.93 GDS-AGO
9 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 210.482 BPR-AGO
19 Sept 1946, USFET

AES 400.13
4 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 320.2 AGU
7 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 400 GAP-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 210.8 GAP-AGO
14 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 319.1 AGU
16 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 000.1 GAP-AGE
16 Oct 1946, USFET |

AG 414 RYT-AGO
16 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 451.02 GDS-AGO
16 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 471 GDS-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 414 GDS-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 210 45 GAP-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 248 GAP-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 370.5 GCT-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 311.5 ASA-AGO
17 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 322 GCT-AGO
18 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 383.4 GBI-AGO
19 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 430.2 RMJ-AGO
19 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 322 GBI-AGO
19 Oct 1946, USFET

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

GERMAN CHILDREN'S PARTY — The picture
on this week's cover shows two brothers
playing the accordian at a party aftended by
400 German children in Grohn, Bremen
Enclave. American soldiers serving with
local army unifs were the main source of
entertainment at the party which was sponsor-
ed by the Red Cross Club of the Grohn
military community.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Material for The German Political Scene
was assembled by the Election Affairs Branch,

Civil Admlnisfration Division, OMGUS, and
"the article was prepared by Richard M. Scammon
Chief of Branch. It is an evaluation of the
current political situation in all four occupation
zones.

Prefabricated Houses was compiled from
material furnished by the Industry Branch.
Economics Division, OMGUS, and from an
article which appeared in “The Bavarian,”
weekly newspaper of the Office of Military
Government for Bavaria.

Land Youth Conference is one of two
arlicles which appear in this issue on army
assistance to German Youth. It was prepared
from a report furnished by the Office of
Military Government for Greater Hesse. The
second article German Youth Program is
an account in pictures of how one unit of the
US Army is implementing the current program.

THIS WEEK

PAGE
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS 2
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
The German Political Scene 4
Land Youth Conference ‘ 6
Prefabricated Houses 8
New “Nuremberg” Trials 11
Progress by Military Government TFS
GENERAL 17
GERMAN REACTIONS 20
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT 22

--- Page 7 ---
THE

GERMAN POLITICAL

By Richard M. Seammon

Wi the popular referenda on the state
constitutions and the election of the

state legislatures, scheduled for 24 Novem-
ber and 1 December, the US Zone rounds
out the cycle of elections begun in the rural
communities (Gemeinden) last January.

In the British and French Zones, local
government voting was held in September
and October and tentative plans have been
made for voting at the Land level in these
two areas next spring. Meanwhile, the Sov-
iet quarter of Germany has gone through
a speeded-up schedule of elections ending
20 October with Kreis and Landtag ballot-

ing.
OUTGROWTH OF POTSDAM

All these elections have been an outgrowth
of the Potsdam Declaration which included
a recognition of political party activity and
a statement of the desirability of extending
the “representative and elective principle”
to governments up to the Land level. While
there has been no general quadripartite con-
trol of elections except in Berlin, certain
principles of electoral procedure and of elec-
toral behavior have emerged more or less
constant in all four zones. Thus an age
rule of 21 years has been universally adopt-
ed in place of the 20 years of the Weimar
period; as customary in almost all democrat-
ic states, a short residence period is required
of voters, a period varying from three
months in the Soviet Zone to a year in Ba-
varia and Wuerttemberg-Baden. Through
all the zones, women have been by far the
more numerous than men on the voters’ reg-
isters — a figure of 60 to 65 percent is
normal and in some extreme cases as high

as three io one. Additionally, there appears
to be general evidence that the voting partic-
ipation of women has been slightly less
than that of men and that they have follow-
ed a more conservative and confessional po-
litical line than has the male segment of the
electorate.

Although there is a general concentration

-of the German public on day-by-day prob-

lems of food,. clothing and shelter, and
although the average German citizen — like
his French, British or American counterpart
— tends “to look down ‘his. nose” at “pol-
itica” in general and at “politicians” in par-
ticular, the popular participation in elec-
tions in all zones has been heavy. The per-
centage figures of those voting have been
consistently higher than for local govern-
ment elections in western European dem-
ocracies and are above the figures in the
American congressional balloting of Novem-
ber 1946.

SYSTEMS OF ELECTION

The large percentage of Germans who
have voted in the elections of this year in
the four zones have done so under systems
of election largely similar to those in use
under the Weimar Republic. There have
been some efforts to eliminate the plague of
small “splinter” parties in the American
Zone and to develop local party nominees
rather than accepting a list of names hand-
ed down from central party headquariers,
but the basic pattern of the closed-list sys-
tem of proportional representation has been
retained in the French, Soviet and US Zones.
In the British area the local government
elections were held under the British and
American system in which candidates are
chosen from individual districts and the man

--- Page 8 ---
who gets the most votes in the district wins.
While this system was somewhat modified
by the introduction of proportionalism to
cover a few seats in each council, the re-
sults did not mirror the actual vote .To the
mathematical German, used to the exact re-
production of his vote secured under the
pure proportional-representation systems of
the Weimar days, this came as a consider-
able shock and produced some unfavorable
comments in the British Zone press. Re-
cently British MG has announced that the
question of voting systems will be “re-ex-
amined” this winter and it is possible that
the method to be used in the anticipated
spring voting will more closely parallel that
in force in the other zones.

ORDERLY BALLOTING

But no matter what the system of voting
used, almost without exception the balloting
m Germany in 1946 has been orderly,
honest, and administratively efficient. Al-
lied observers from all powers have been
impressed with the competence with which
German civil officials approached the im-
mense task of recording the views of tens
of millions of their countrymen. Faced with
the job of making up lists of voters in such
bomb-tangled cities as Berlin, Frankfurt,
Cologne, Leipzig and Hamburg, the elections
nave had fewer charges of fraud or incompe-
tence thrown at them than may be heard at
election time in several good-sized American
cities.

While the election officials were busy
organizing the voting in the four zones dur-
ing the past year the party leaders were
likewise active. Licensed first in the Soviet
Zone, — even before the Potsdam Declara-
tion on political parties — their activities
were authorized in the US and British areas
in the late summer of 1945 and lastly by the
French, nonsignatory of the Potsdam Decla-
ration. In the three Western Zones, there
has been an increasingly developed political
pattern emerging from the elections and
party strife of the past year. In general this

(Continued on page 23)

(Left) A crowd assembled in Piter Platz in
Brandenburg awaits the arrival of political
speakers at a rally held during the Soviet
Zone elections in September. Photo by Reis

--- Page 9 ---
sal and important approach to democ-
racy in Germany was made in Ass-
mannshausen-on-the-Rhine on 22 October.
MG personnel, WAC’s, GI’s, American civil-
ians and German youths, adults, youth com-
mittee leaders and members of the German
Ministry of Culture met together on an
equal basis to discuss the re-education of
German youth. The three-day youth officer
training conference was designed for the
delegates from Greater Hesse, but interest on
the part of the Americans was so great that
representatives came voluntarily from all
over the US Zone.

The success of the conference was due in
large part to the frankness and earnestness
of the discussions and the interest evinced to
hear the other person’s point of view. The
discussions, all in English, were conducted
by both Americans and Germans of a variety
of educational backgrounds and skills.

REBUILDING YOUTH CENTERS

Among the subjects dealt with was that
of the rebuilding of the youth centers and
camps by the Germans with the assistance of
the Army. The Special Services Section
presented plans for the establishment of
workshops to further the handicraft pro-
gram. The success of the whole effort
depends in part upon the cooperation and
encouragement which the German parents
and families give their children.

One observer noted a tacit but mutual
understanding between the American and
German delegates that the program is not
to be considered one of philanthropy. Gifts
of chocolate and chewing gum never instilled
democratic thinking in anyone. Rather, the

(Left) A Quaker youth from Kassel addresses
the three-day training conference of US
personnel assigned to German youth assistance.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 10 ---
Dr. James R. Newman, Director of Military Government for Greater Hesse, Signal Corps Photo

delivers an address of welcome fo the conference on its first day of discussion.

job at hand is to build a German program
of democracy, led and inspired by German
youth, with American guidance and advice
available when needed, so that it will have
the strength to continue on its own when
outside help has been removed.

The young people, working through these
youth councils, the growth of which MG
wishes to encourage, are convinced that they
are on the right road, the road that leads
to mature, responsible citizenship in a de-
mocracy, but they will need a great deal of

assistance before they reach that goal. These
youths and their MG advisors feel that the
right start is being made.

The Greater Hesse youth conference was
a step in the implementation of a recent
USFET directive which outlined the pro-
gram of army assistance to German youth.
The USFET publication called upon US
military and civilian personnel and their
dependents in the Theater to assist in the
mission of teaching and demonstrating Ame-
rican democracy to German youth.

A US civilian member of the Youth Activities Branch, OMG Greater Hesse.
is shown as she discusses the conference program with German youth officials

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 11 ---
Ave manufacture and sale of Ger-
man-made prefabricated houses would
amount to a partial solution of two world
problems: The universal housing shortage
and the revival of the German export econ-
omy. Germany has almost all the required
raw materials for such a program and the
necessary labor. Likewise, the acute housing
problem in Europe and other war areas of
the world needs no amplification. In the
United States alone it is estimated that there

The interior of this prefabricated house at the Munich export
exhibit was completely furnished by Bavarian manufacturers.

is a need for 12,000,000 additional dwellings
in the next ten years.

The Potsdam Declaration provides for “the
elimination or control of all German industry
that could be used for military production”
so that “in organizing the German economy,
primary emphasis shall be given tothe devel-
opment of agriculture and peaceful domes-
tic industries.” It further provides that pol-
icies “shall be established in regard io...
import and export programs for Germany as

Photo by the Bavarian

--- Page 12 ---
A portion of the prefabricated village at the Munich export exhibit where prefabri-
cated houses of American, British, French, and German design are on display.

a whole.” Thus, the proposed prefabricated
housing industry meets with the specific ob-
jectives of Allied policy.

Housing is one of the few large industries
in the world that remains in a handicraft
scale. This is the major cause for the pres-
ent shortage. The only way to produce
enough housing to catch up with or meet the
mass demand is by producing a complete
housing unit or units through factory meth-
ods. The critical emergency of most of the
continent and England during the next five
years can not possibly be met by the stand-
ard handicraft methods of housing construc-
tion, nor will the standard building materials
alone be sufficient to supply these demands.
New factories, new methods and new mater-
ials will have to be added to Europe’s present
potentialities to implement and meet housing
requirements.

MASS PRODUCTION NECESSARY

No nation, to the present time, has entered
into prefabrication of housing on a large
enough scale either to make it practical or
to sell the public on the idea. The relatively
small scale production of certain types of
housing in factories has not yet had a chance
to demonstrate itself. To achieve full bene-

fits of mass production, the product must be
produced not in hundreds but in thousands.

Enough vacant industrial space will exist
to house the new industry, since a great deal
of machinery has been removed, having been
either eliminated as war potential or taken
in reparations. There may exist much useful
machinery which is not a war potential and
which may be used peacefully in this newin-
dustry. Also, it may be necessary to build
new, specialized equipment for the manufac-
ture of prefabricated houses.

MATERIALS AND LABOR AVAILABLE

Raw materials and labor for the industry
are at hand in Germany. A gas concrete of
honey-comh texture has been developed.
This is extremely strong, light in weight,
and has an insulative quality. Plastic wall-
board can be made from grain husks and
grass waste material handed together.

The entire idea of the prefabricated hous-
ing industry is still in the experimental
stage, but a few concrete steps have been
taken toward its realization. A German tech-
nical panel, consisting of the foremost Ger-
man experts on the subject, has been formed
in Stuttgart to study prefabricated housing
and its requirements as a new large-scale in-

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 13 ---
dustry.

This panel has produced a variety of de-
signs and types of dwelling units deemed
most practical for domestic and foreign con-
sumption, and in addition, the plant designs,
equipment and material requirements for
such an industry. At present, twelve types
of experimental houses are nearing comple-
tion in the vicinity of Stuttgart. These are
being erected on a site especially designated
for the purpose by the city of Stuttgart. The
houses will be the basis for further experi-
mentation in the field of prefabrication.
These and any future houses to be built will
serve as a show room for prospective buyers.

EXPERIMENTS IN BERLIN

Stuttgart, however, is not the only Ger-
man city interested in prefabricated housing.
During the past year Berlin has been con-
ducting experiments in the same field. In
the main, these experiments have dealt with
the field of plastics in housing. An exhibition
of plastic model houses was opened in the
Kaiser Wilhelm Schloss in Berlin in August.
Each of the four occupying Powers submit-
ted model houses for the exhibit, and the
designs of these houses were based upon
standards of European countries that might
import them ifGermany were in a position to
produce them on a large scale. The models
do not pretend to be the final product of a
housing industry but rather they are a first
step in research for Germany, who has lag-
ged behind the rest of the world in this field.
It is believed that if Germany had sufficient
plastics, it could produce many new and in-
teresting features in the field.

PREFABRICATED VILLAGE

The city of Munich opened a display of
prefabricated houses in August. There, the
potential buyer may visit a village of nine
prefabricated houses, each completely fur-
nished by Bavarian manufacturers of furni-
ture, which was also designed with an eye
on export trade. Prices for the houses vary
from RM 4,000 to 24,000. The German con-
struction firm who produced them states
that the houses can be erected within a very

10

short time, that they are comfortable and
weatherproof, and that, accompanied by
complete instructions, they can be erected by
any competent craftsman.

This is an opportunity which presents it-
self to the Allies in control of Germany to
solve one of their own problems and one of
the world at large. The world needs houses
and the Germans need a peaceful industrial
program. German industrialists can finance
the program, and war plants can be convert-
ed for use in a new industry. The ideas
which stem from the German planning com-
mitee will be public property from which all
can benefit. At the beginning, the majority
of the houses manufactured would be ex-
ported, but the conceived plan foresees the
time when Germany's own desperate need
for dwellings can be alleviated.

Denazification Proceedings

The denazification program in the US
Zone showed continued activity during the
month of September. There were 1,648,787
registrations during the month, bringing the
total number, since the initiation of the pro-
gram, to 11,118,169.

To date approximately 50 percent of all
registrations in the Zone have been found
“apparently not chargeable.” In Greater
Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden a total of
1,403,245, or 27 percent of the number of
cases charged were found not chargeable.

Considerable divergence appears in Clas-
ses I, II, III, and IV, as between the charges
of public prosecutors and the findings of the
tribunals. Of the total 31,952 cases tried
during September the public prosecutors
charged 2 percent as Class I Major Of-
fenders, 15 percent as Class II Offenders,
11.6 percent as Class III Lesser Offenders,
and 49.5 percent as Class IV Followers. The
tribunal findings followed an entirely dif-
ferent pattern. Of the same 31,952 cases the
trial tribunals found only 0.1 percent as
Class I Major Offenders, a little less than
2 percent as Class II Offenders, 7.6 percent
as Class III Lesser Offenders and nearly
66 percent as Class IV Followers.

--- Page 14 ---
66

NEW,
urem

berg

TRIAL

the United States has set ihe stage for its

part in bringing the remainder of the Ger-
man war leaders to justice, in accordance
with the quadripartite procedure provided
by the International Military Tribunal in
its recent ten-month trials of the top men
in the Nazi and militaristic hierarchy for
waging aggressive war and committing
crimes against peace and humanity.

Between 225 and 250 German govern-
mental officials, indusirialists, financiers,
professional persons and others involved in
the Nazi scheme for world domination are
held in the US Zone for trial. The first
group to have their day in court is made
up of 23 Nazi physicians scheduled for -ar-
raignment the last of this month in the
Palace of Justice in Nuremberg on charges of
committing war crimes and crimes against
humanity.

The trial of the accused physicians will
take place in one courtroom while five more
courtrooms are being prepared in the Nu-
remberg building for simultaneous trials of
other individuals and groups by US Zonal
tribunals under the authority of the Allied
Control Council Law No. 10 in accordance
with the Charter of the International Mil-
itary Tribunal. The trials are also provided
for in MG Ordinance No. 7 of 24 October
1946, based on an executive order of Janu-
ary 1946.

1

To succeed Justice Robert H. Jackson as
US Chief of Counsel is Brig. Gen. Telford
Taylor, who will also serve as Chief Prose-
cutor for the United States. The Office of
the Chief of Counsel has been transferred
to OMGUS, the Chief of Counsel reporting
directly to the Military Governor and work-
ing in close liaison with the Legal Advisor,
OMGUS, and with the Theater Judge Ad-
vocate, USFET.

RESPONSIBILITIES OUTLINED

The Theater Judge Advocate is respon-
sible for the investigation and trial of war
crimes committed to the prejudice of US na-
tionals, especially prisoners of war and atroc-
ities committed in concentration campsbefore
seizure by US forces. The Chief of Counsel
for War Crimes, on the other hand, is re-
sponsible for the prosecution of major war
criminals, their agents and accessories, and
members of organizations declared criminal
by the International Military Tribunal.

Each tribunal established under Ordinance
No. 7 consists of three members and one
alternate, one of whom the Military Gov-
ernor appoints as presiding judge. The first
tribunal, which has already been selected,
is composed of Walter B. Beals, Chief Jus-
tice of the Supreme Court of the State of
Washington; H. L. Sebring, Judge of the
Supreme Court of Florida; Johnson Tal

--- Page 15 ---
Crawford, Justice of the Oklahoma District
Court, and the alternate judge, Lt. Col. V.
C. Swerringen, formerly Assistant Attorney
General of Michigan and Special Assistant
Attorney General in the Criminal Division
of the Department of Justice.

CENTRAL SECRETARIAT

A central secretariat is to assist the six
’ tribunals in the same capacity as the Gen-
eral Secretary served the International Mil-
itary Tribunal. The new Acting Secretary
General appointed by the Military Govern-
or is C. E. Sands, formerly with the Allied
Secretariat in Berlin, where he set up the
Secretariat for OMGUS. The Secretariat
also is responsible for all administrative and
supply needs of the tribunals, supplies in-
formation for the courts, serves as liaison
between the prosecution and defense coun-
sels, and arranges aid for the defendants
in procuring witnesses and evidence author-
ized by the tribunals.

Ordinance No. 7 further states that re-
garding international trials: “The Military
Governor may in his discretion enter into
an agreement with one or more other zone
commanders of the member nations of the
Allied Control Authority providing for the
joint trial of any case or cases.” In such
cases, the tribunals might include qualified
jurists chosen by the other member nations.

JUDGEMENTS BY MAJORITY VOTE

The decisions and judgments will be
reached by a majority vote of the members
hearing the case, a quorum of members con-
sisting of three, or in the case of illness and
no available alternate, two. The members
of the tribunals will not be limited by tech-
nical rules of evidence, but may admit any
evidence which they deem has probative value.
The Tribunals or their members cannot
be challenged by either side and their judg-
ments are final and not subject to review,
although the Military Governor may alter
the sentences and may reduce, but not in-
crease, their severity.

A sentence of death will not be carried

12

into. execution until confirmed in writing by
the Military Governor. Executions may be
deferred for not longer than one month “if
there is reason to believe that the testimony
of the convicted person may be of value
in the investigation and trial of other
crimes.” .

For the first of the US Zone trials in Nu-
remberg, 23 Nazi physicians were indict-
ed on 24 October by the American govern-
ment for having formed a conspiracy to
commit war crimes and crimes against hu-
manity. The indictment was signed by the
US Chief of Counsel and filed with the act-
ing General Secretary of the Zonal Tribunal.
Each of the physicians are charged indi-
vidually under at least three of the four
counts listed in the indictment.

10 ACCUSED AS SS MEMBERS

Ten of the defendants, all of whom are
lodged in the Nuremberg jail, are accused
of having been members of the SS. Of these,
one of the most notorious is Karl Brandt,
who, aside from being a general in the SS,
was formerly Adolf Hitler’s personal physi-
cian, the Reich commissioner for health and
sanitation. Other high-ranking SS officers
are Karl Genzken, chief of the medical de-
partment in the Waffen SS; Karl Gebhardt,
personal physician to Himmler and presi-
dent of the German Red Cross; Rudolf
Brandt, personal administrative officer to
Himmler; Joachim Mrugowsky, chief of the
Hygienic Institute of the SS; Helmut Pop-
pendick, chief of the personal staff of the
medical division of the SS; Wolfram Sie-
vers, director of the Military Scientific Re-
search Institute; Victor Brack, chief ad-
ministrative officer in Hitler’s Chancellery;
Waldemar Hoven, chief doctor of the Bu-
chenwald concentration camp, and Fritz
Fischer, the assistant to Karl Gebhardt at
Hohenlychen hospital.

The remaining 13 defendants bear titles
of former positions as notorious as those
listed above. Herta Oberhauser, the only
woman in the group, was a physician in the
Ravensbrueck concentration camp. Adolf

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 16 ---
Progress by Military Government

Sixteen Months of American Occupation in Germany Reviewed
By Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay in Broadcast to United States

Jen grateful to the Columbia Broadcasting
System for the opportunity to talk to you
tonight on “Our Military Government of
Germany.” My time is limited so I do not
propose to talk to you of American policy.
That has been clearly enunciated by our
Secretary of State. I do propose to try to
tell you something of the problems which we
have faced during a year and a half of Mili-
tary Government. At the same time I would
like to pay tribute to the personnel of Mili-
tary Government who have worked long and
hard to solve many of these problems.

The Theater Commander, General McNar-
ney, not only commands all of the troops in
the European Theater of Operations but is
also the Military Governor of the United
States Zone. In this latter capacity, he is
the representative of the United States on
the quadripartite Allied Control Council.
However, he has separated direct Military
Government responsibilities and activities
from the Army Command and placed them
in the Office of Military Government for
Germany, which is headed by the Deputy
Military Governor.

PRESENT STRENGTH OF MG

The Office of Military Government is com-
posed of approximately 6,000 civilians,
officers and soldiers, in almost equal num-
bers. This overall strength includes the per-
sonnel engaged in quadripartite government
in Berlin; in the three state capitals of Ba-
varia, Wuerttemberg-Baden and Greater
Hesse; and in the two cities which lie outside
these states — Berlin and Bremen. It also
includes the small field detachments, compos-
ed of four representatives each, which are
stationed in each of the counties in the
American Zone. These detachments have
observation as their primary mission, to ob-
serve and report the extent to which our

13

policies are being carried out by German
administration.

‘When our invading armies fought their
way into Germany, the tactical troops carried
with them trained Military Government
detachments. These detachments found that
national, regional, and local German govern-
ment had collapsed. They had to administer
the cities and counties crossed by our fighting
troops on their march through Germany.
They had the initial problems of restoring
utilities; of developing law and order; and,
at the same time, preventing the spread of
epidemics. They did their job well.

LONG-RANGE PLANNING GROUP

Concurrently, a planning group, which
later became the Berlin-Headquarters of
Military Government, was at work to for-
mulate plans for long-range government of
the United States Zone. This group was
also planning for the participation of the
United States in quadripartite government
for Germany as a whole.

The problems which Military Government
faced in its early days can be demonstrated
by a few statistics. In June 1945, railroad
utilization in the United States Zone was
less than 7,000,000 ton-miles per day, as
compared to 25,000,000 ton-miles in Septem-
ber of this year. In May 1945, postal service
and telegraphic and telephonic communica-
tions for Germany were practically non-
existing. In September of this year, more
than 112,000,000 letters, almost 2,000,000
parcel post packages, and 18,000,000 news-
papers were handled in the United States
Zone. International mail had reached a figure
of 2,667,000 items. In September, there were
more than 5,000,000 long distance telephone
calls within our zone, and more than
1,000,000 telegraphic communications.

In May 1945, the entire school system of

(Continued on page 26)

--- Page 17 ---
T’ pictures on these two pages show ac-

tivity at the Bremen boys club, Bremen’s
contribution to the German-youth program.
The club, which was organized by Gl’s of
the 104th Labor Supervision Group, pro-
vides entertainment and activities for boys
from 10 to 18 years.

This boys club is one of many for both
boys and girls that are being formed

(Below) A soldier from the 104th Labor
Supervision Group plays ping pong with
two German boys at the Bremen boys
club; (above right) a GI and a group of
Germans watch as a German youth puts
finishing touches on a portrait; (below
right) US soldiers assist: members of
the Bremen boys club in .assembling
toys for orphan German children.

Signal Corps Photos

throughout the US occupied areas of Ger-
many as part of the current campaign of
Army assistance to German youth. The cam-
paign has ihe immediate objective of re-
ducing juvenile delinquency, in the Zone and
the long-range objective of teaching dem-
ocratic concepts to those Germans, who may,
in the years to come, guide their country to
membership in a peaceful family of nations.

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
NEW NUREMBERG TRIALS (Continued from page 12)

Pokorny was a specialist on skin and ven-
ereal diseases; Wilhelm Beiglboeck, consult-
ing physician for the German Air Force;
Siegfried Sandloser, Nazi medical chief for
the German Armed Forces. Paul Rostock,
chief surgeon of the Berlin clinic and chief
of the Reich office for Medical Science and
Research; Oskar Schroeder, chief of the
Luftwaffe’s medical service and chief-of-staff
of the inspectorate. Also, there are Kurt
Blome, deputy Reich health leader and
Nazi official for the Cancer Branch of the
Reich Research Council; Gerhard Rose, gen-
eral in the Luftwaffe and chief of the De-
partment for Tropical Medicine; Siegfried
Ruff, director of the Nazi Aviation Medical
Department; Hans Wolfgang Romberg, a
doctor-of the staff of the Experimental In-
stitute for Aviation. Of the final three, Her-
mann Becker-Freyseng was a captain in the
medical service and both Georg Weltz and
Konrad Schaefer were doctors at Aviation
Institutes of Medicine, the former in Munich
and the latter in Berlin.

COUNTS OF INDICTMENTS

The first count of the indictment is that
of conspiracy, of which all 23 are alleged
to be guilty in that they united together to
form a common plan involving war crimes
and crimes against humanity. The second
count is defined as being war crimes against
civilians of German-occupied countries and
against members of armed forces of enemy
nations. Count three of the indictment al-
leges that the 23 defendants are guilty of
having committed crimes against German
nationals of civilian status and against ci-
vilians of other countries as well. The Ger-
man nationals are described as being Jews,
political prisoners, or “useless eaters.” The
fourth count alleges that 10 of the 23 are
guilty of having held membership in the
SS, the Nazi security police organization
which the International Military Tribunal
has declared to be a criminal organization.

The details of the indictment’s individual

and specific charges make unpleasant read-
ing. The medical experiments charged against
the defendants include high altitude and
freezing, sterilization, and poisoning exper-
iments. The charges say that wounds were
inflicted into the legs of the experimental
subjects and infected with bacteria such as
streprococcus, gas gangrene and tetanus. Cir-
culation of the blood was blocked by the ty-
ing off of blood vessels at both endsyof the
of a battlefield wound. The prosecution also
wound to create a condition similar to that
charges that “infection was aggravated by
the forcing of wood shavings and ground
glass into the wounds.”

SKELETON COLLECTION

Continuing its recitation of accusations,
the prosecution paints the picture of 112
Jews being selected for the purpose of
completing a skeleton collection for the
University of Strassbourg. They were pho-
tographed, measured, killed, defleshed and
the skeletons were then assembled — all in
the interest of Nazi science.

Karl Brandt, Blome and Brack are charged
under the third count for the specific crime
of euthenasia. The three combined their tal-
ents and efforts, the prosecution charges, to
create a mass extermination program in the
Reich whereby hundreds of thousands of the
aged, insane, incurably ill and of deformed
children were secretly but systematically
murdered in cold blood by gas and lethal in-
jections. The indictment goes on to state
that “(German doctors involved in the ‘euthe-
nasia’ program were sent from time to time
to the eastern occupied countries to lend
the expert assistance in the mass extermina-
tion of the Jews.”

The US Government has further charged
that those defendants who are judged guilty
of war crime commission have by their acts
violated the Hague Regulations of 1907, the
Prisoner-of-War Convention of Geneva in
1939 and the general principles of law. as
derived from the criminal laws of all civiliz-
ed nations.

--- Page 20 ---
Absorption of Expellees

Failure of the Laenderrat to reach an
agreement on the absorption of expellees
from the Sudetenland and other eastern ter-
ritories drew sharp comment from OMGUS.

OMGUS’ action resulted from a request by
the Laenderrat for an MG decision to de-
termine the exact percentages of expellees
each of the three states of the US Zone must
accept. Neither the Laenderrat nor its Direct-
orate had been able to agree to such a
distribution key.

“This decision should be made by the
Laenderrat and not by the Military Govern-
ment,” OMGUS stated in returning the
matter to the Council of States for “prompt
and just action.” The MG statement added:

“The lapse of time taken in unreasonably
biased and uncrompromising discussions,
bodes ill for efficient government, and failure
of agreement on this matter indicates a lack
of realization of the fundamental democratic
concept that chosen representatives must ac-
cept for their constituency the equal respon-
sibilities and burdens as well as the equal
privileges of democratic government.

“Accordingly, this request for decision is
returned without action by Military Govern-
ment and the Laenderrat is urgently request-
ed to take prompt and just action and to
report thereon.”

Spruchkammer Cases

The Spruchkammer cases of 146 Bavarian
clergymen were completed by the end of
October, according to the Bavarian Denazi-
fication Ministry. The actions resulted from
the evidence uncovered by the MG Special
Branches in Bavaria during the course of
their denazification activities prior to the
promulgation of the German Law for Libera-
tion from National Socialism and Militarism.

Out of this first group of ministers and
church officials to be tried by the German
Tribunals, 11 were found to be Class II

17

offenders, 32 were classified as Class
Nazis, 69 in Class IV and 28 in

The remaining six were found to be juistfonts
ed by the law.

The heaviest sentence was decreed against
a Berchtesgaden minister who was given a
three-year confinement in a labor camp, fines
and costs totaling RM 17,000 and prohibition
from preaching for ten years. The minister
had been an early member of the SA and
NSDAP as well as a holder of the “Golden
Eagle Badge.”

Other clergymen found affected by the law
received sentences ranging from 11/2 years in
a labor camp to fines, confiscation of prop-
erty, and prohibition from church activities
for varying periods.

CARE Packages

The end of the maritime strike in the
United States will enable an additional
145,000 CARE packages, containing food and
other essential items for German civilians,
to arrive in Bremen before mid-December.
Orders for 90,690 packages for distribution
in the US Zone have already been received.
Distribution has been proceeding since last
August from stocks of more than 100,000
packages in German warehouses.

The distribution of CARE packages is the
responsibility of German private welfare
agencies which have been organized into the
German Central Committee for the Distribu-
tion of Foreign Relief Supplies.

Weather Information

During the winter months information
service on highway snow and ice conditions
will be provided 24 hours daily by the Ger-
man highway maintenance authorities. The
service will be operated by English speak-
ing German personnel, and will provide in-
formation for the convenience of persons
desiring to ascertain snow and ice conditions
on the main routes in the US Zone.

--- Page 21 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

Two Bavarians who had been considered
for important positions with bizonal agencies
were rejected by the OMGB Special Branch
for Nazi affiliations or sympathies. One of
them was held for trial on a charge of hav-
ing falsified his Fragebogen on seven major
counts.

The purchase by a French firm of four
marine diesel engines was announced by the
OMGB Export-Import Section. The engines
were originally owned by the Hamburg-
American Lines and were slated for installa-
tion in one of the lines’ ships being con-
structed in a French shipyard during the
German occupation. The French firm paid
1,088,000 dollars for the engines which had
been stored near Nuremberg during the war.

BIZONAL DENAZIFICATION MEETING

German denazification officials from the
US and British Zones met at Bad Homburg
on 24 October. Denazification standards and
procedures in the two zones were reviewed.
The US Zone denazification Law for the
Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism was studied with a view towards
adopting similar provisions in the British
Zone.

German and MG authorities have begun
taking a census of the entire population in
Germany as of the situation that existed at
midnight of Tuesday 29 October. The first
results will be known by 13 November, by
which time a headcount of the population in
all four zones will become available.

In order to avoid spoilage of produce in
fields, approximately 6,000 US soldiers and
approximately 3,000 US vehicles will be
employed until the middle of December to
transport the crops. Six prisoner-of-war
truck companies will also be used.

The total consumption of electric power
remained around 119 million KWH, of which
53 percent was hydrogenerated, 9 percent
generated from brown coal, and 12 percent
was net imports. The rationing of electric

18

power in US military establishments in the
US Zone is in force.

Thirty or more carloads of lumber each
day are moving into Rhine ports for current
export to the United Kingdom. Stocks on
hand total about 7,900 cubic meters, with the
loading in process at four of the five ports.
Enough lumber has been cut and seasoned to
fulfill the two million dollar commitment
for 100,000 cubic meters.

RUBBER ALLOCATION

An emergency allocation of 500 tons of
crude natural rubber has been obtained from
the British Zone so that the manufacture of
tires and tubes may continue. Stocks in the
US Zone are exhausted.

There have been 170 more claims for
restitution received at the last report. Two
complete oil-cracking installations were
among the industrial machinery returned to
France, as well as 18 carloads of porcelain,
crystal and glassware. Textiles, machinery
and two Gobelin tapestries were returned to
Czechoslovakia, and machine tools were
restored to Belgium and Yugoslavia.

The Senior Directorate of Communications
and Posts has been authorized to inaugurate
notification of the non-delivery of telegrams
by telegraphic means within the US Zone
and interzonally between the US, British and
French Zones.

GIFT PARCELS ARRIVE

Additional shipments of approximately
140,000 gift relief parcels from the United
States arrived recently at Bremen. Of these
parcels 84,000 are destined for the US Zone
and the remainder for the British Zone.

Radio Frankfurt’s School of the Air has
been in operation to help offset the textbook
shortage and to supplement school studies in
Greater Hesse. These programs, presented
four times weekly, are prepared by a special
staff in consultation with Greater Hesse
education authorities.

--- Page 22 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent eacerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted circu-
lars, letters and directives may be obtain-
ed by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

Procurement of Lumber

Procurement of lumber by military units,
not to exced the amounts allocated by OMG-
US, should be procured in the following
manner:

Since lumber ration stamps now have a
validity of 30 days only from date of is-
suance all military units and Purchasing
and Contracting teams are advised to place
orders with indicated sawmills immediately
upon receipt and for total amounts of lumber
ration stamps issued. Arrangements are to be
made with the sawmill operators for specific
dates when material will be available for
delivery. When such arrangements have
been made, strict adherence is necessary,
otherwise such quantities of lumber will be
made available to the German civilian
economy.

The procurement of lumber by military
units should be made by using German spec-
ifications and standards insofar as are com-
parable to English standards; that is, using
meters and centimeters rather than feet and
inches. There are on hand at sawmills quant-
ities of seasoned material of specific sizes
which should be utilized insofar as possible.

Highway Maintenance

Long-range planning for highway trans-
portation and maintenance is the responsi-
bility of the German authorities, says an
OMGUS letter, AG 611 (TD), dated 22 Oc-
tober, in criticizing the present critical short-
ages in certain items of supply. The sole
responsibility of MG is to assist in pro-
curement which cannot be accomplished by
the German authorities themselves.

The letter directs that it should be made

19

clear to the German authorities that it is
their responsibility to (1) investigate and
know their long-range requirements, (2) ex-
haust every effort of their own to obtain
requirements from indigenous resources or
production and (3) give notice sufficiently
im advance through theLaenderrat of import
requirements that require MG procurement
assistance.

The majority of procurement by import
and all procurement of US surplus must
continue to clear through OMGUS, the letter
says.

Shipment of Animals

Individuals planning to ship animals or
animal products from one zone to another
will be required to have a Veterinary Certi-
ficate, as stated in OMGUS directive AG 454
(IA), dated 14 October 1946, “Veterinary
Certificate for Shipment of Animals and Ani-
mal Products.”

The Certificate will be used in the follow-
ing cases: all common carrier shipments; all
shipments of more than 50 kilometers by any
means; and any other shipments as ordered
by competent authorities.

Travels Orders

If you are planning a trip that will nec-
essiate your traveling through the Russian
or French Zones of Occupation, or through
Switzerland, regardless of the fact that such
may not be the ultimate destination, you
will be required to have in your possession
travel orders written both in English and
in the appropriate other language, according
to USFET directive AG 300.4 AGP, ‘Tra-
vel Orders and Clearance”, dated 17 Octo-
ber 1946.

“Orders directing travel to Berlin from
points within the US Occupied Zone of Ger-
many, regardless of mode of travel, must be
written in both English and Russian, in-
asmuch as travel through the Russian Zone
of Occupation is involved,” the directive
states.

--- Page 23 ---
Berlin Elections Acclaimed as
Victory for Democratic Forces

Extensive editorial comment inthelicensed
newspapers of the US Zone acclaimed the
results of the municipal elections in Berlin
on 20 October as a victory of democratic
forces. The citizens of Berlin, as a rule wide-
ly disliked by South Germans, were hailed
as the standard-bearers of the new democ-
racy. Typical editorial excerpts were com-
piled by the Office of Information Control,
OMGUS.

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augs-
burg) said all of Germany owed thanks to
the Berlin voters “who have to live under in-
comparably more difficult conditions than
the population of the western and especially
the southern zones of occupation. It ad-
ded: “We hope and wish that many a Ba-
varian will now correct his hasty judgment
of the Berliners and that these elections will
contribute to a better understanding between
north and south.”

“This decision of the voters (in Berlin
and the eastern zone) is a protest against the
suppression of the SPD in the East Zone, a
demand for the raising of the ban which can-
not be ignored,” said the Badische Neueste
Nachrichten (Karlsruhe). “For although votes
for the SPD were not possible in Saxony,
Thuringia, etc., the SED suffered a defeat
here too; CDU and LDP together attained
a majority against the SED... . ‘Let the
will of the people be the highest law!’ the
SED concluded its appeal of 19 October
about the ‘Fundamental Rights of the Ger-
man People.’ The German People on Sunday
proclaimed its will unmistakably.”

The Neue Presse (Coburg) warned against
any exploitation of the Berlin election results
by reactionaries with the aim of spreading
hostility against any nation. “It is simply
a distortion of the essential meaning of the
elections when it is being maintained that

would argue who can think only ‘in political
blocs’ and who, in the last analysis, are play-
ing with the idea of war. No, the great mass
of the laboring population has not voted for
this or that bloc, but to document emphatic-,
ally its will to Socialism.”

Task of the SED

In a post election editorial the British li-
censed Socialdemocrat in Berlin declared
that inasmuch as the Berlin population has
withdrawn its confidence in the SED, there
is only one task left for the SED: “The
party is on the wrong way and we are there-
fore of the opinion the functionaries of the
SED should draw therefrom the only possible
logical conclusion, namely, to dissolve their
party and to support the Social Democratic
fight for liberty.”

“We believe in the idealists of this par-
ty... yet this will not lead us to unite with
the Communist leadership of the SED,” de-
clared the paper. “The Communist leadership
has failed, as it failed in the past... .”

Party Press

Das Zeit-Echo (Schwaebisch-Hall) publish-
ed an editorial speaking against the party
press and for the idea of non-partisan news-
papers. It said:

“When papers become mouth-pieces of a
single party, the editors cease to be free per-
sonalities and have to play the role of party
officials . . . We must admit that the party
information sheets that have been authorized
in the US Zone are by and large well edited
and do good work. That solves the problem,
so that there is no further need to make the
big press subservient to the parties. That
our point of view displeases the parties we
can well understand. But we cannot make
concessions.”

--- Page 24 ---
Plea for Understanding

In a long article in the Tagesspiegel, US-
licensed independent newspaper in Berlin,
Karl Germer advised that the Germans must
strive particularly to bring about under-
standing between the eastern and western
parts of Europe.

“We will come up to the expectations of
posterity when we rid our politics of fan-
tastic ideas and work for a better future for
our children from present reality,” declared
Germer. “On this line our first great task
is to bring about understanding between the
western powers and the USSR.”

Declaring that the rest of the world knows
almost nothing of the development in the
USSR of Marx’s and Lenin’s doctrines of a
planned social order, Germer stated it is
only the Soviet Union which can explain
this “in order to present to the rest of the
world the experience of a deliberately plan-
ned social economy and on the other hand in
order to give its own political workers the
chance to study the development of the
socialist idea in western Europe.”

Bow Not to Terror

In commenting on the recent bombings of
the buildings of the Spruchkammer (German
denazification court) in Stuttgart and Back-
nag, the Stuttgarter Zeitung said it was “a
mistake to start the building of democracy
before the ground was leveled.” The edi-
torial continued: “Behind these detonations
stands the ‘spirit’ of the murderers of Erz-
berger and Rathenau, of the Reichstag arson-
ists, and of the bestial brutality of the con-
centration camps . . .

“Anybody who had followed our political
development since the collapse could not
have been surprised. We have taken our
political clean-up job too lightly. We have
shown no real earnestness and we are al-
deady now harvesting what we have
shown. ... The explosions were intended
to spread terror. We have not bowed down
to terror before, and we'll do so even less

21

now. We are strong enough to bring the
unknown perpetrators and their backers to
justice. We render the spirit of democracy
the greatest service when we show that even
a democracy can be tough.”

Nuremberg Executions

Editorial comemnts on the Nuremberg exe-
cutions were run by three of the Soviet con-
trolled organs in Berlin, which pointed out
in the main that the dangers of Nazism are
not yet eradicated, and that much still re-
mains to be done.

The Taegliche Rundschau, overt Soviet
organ, declared the German working people
“demand a strong clearance of fascist ele-
ments and the remains of the Nazi spirit
from Germany.” The paper asserted the
sentence showed the unaminity of the court
and the four great powers and then cited
the dissent of the Soviet judge.

Neues Deutschland, SED organ, declared
the German people will not rest until all
these war criminals are brought to justice...
‘We demand German courts for the despoilers
and enemies of our mother country.” Der
Morgen, LDP organ, declared that the Ger-
man account with the beaten leaders has not
been settled, though they met their just
deserts.

Appeal Board Cases

The Wetzlarer Neue Zeitung in an edi-
torial criticizing the refusal of the public to
testify in Appeal Board denazification cases,
said, “Whoever has anything to contribute
to lightening the task of the boards must feel
obligated to do so and to stand by his state-
ments. He serves only justice thereby. The
Nuremberg (War. Crimes) Tribunal has pro-
tected the attorneys for the defense and it
would not occur to any German official to
discriminate against them. That goes for
every witness before an Appeal Board: He
need not fear, even in his most secret
thoughts, that one day a new Gestapo will
come knocking at his door.”

--- Page 25 ---
Disarmament Discussions Seen
As Illustration of UN’s Value

Discussion of practical steps for a general
reduction of armaments, now on the agenda
of the UN Assembly, is regarded by editors
and commentators in ihe United States as
a forward step and one illustrating the value
of the Assembly. f

Editorials have enthusiastically endorsed
US chief delegate Warren Austin’s declara-
tion which expressed approval of the prin-
ciple of disarmament earlier voiced by Soviet
Foreign Minister Molotov but added the im-
portant proviso that disarmament must in-
clude effective safeguards.

Baltimore Evening Sun: “. . . Senator
Austin quickly seized upon what he had
earlier called the ‘constructive’ elements in
Mr. Molotov’ remarks, developed them and
showed how they could form the basis for
‘positive action for peace and security.’ The
wisdom of this course is plain to see. It
emphasizes agreements on fundamental prin-
ciple rather than disagreements on detail. It
defines a common ground on which the na-
tions can stand and work provided only that
their devotion to the principles they profess
is equally sincere.”

3

Cincinnati Inquirer: “General reduction of
armaments is obviously a desirable goal...
For the American people, who have never
been militaristic, it is an attractive idea.
Disarmament now or in the future must be
general in scope, and not disarmament by
example. ... We can reduce armaments
with safeiy only if the world community
first establishes an effective system of col-
lective security.”

Erwin D. Canham, editor of the Christian
Science Monitor, in a radio commentary said:
“These calm and wise remarks (of Austin)
made a strong impression on other delega-
tions to the Assembly. . .. Russia’s pro-
posals for disarmament are, of course, very

important and ve
coupled with Senat 2
there must be effective safegu:
shape of inspections to guard against secret
arming. Without inspection there will be
no control. But with inspection a genuine
step in the limitation of the selfish side of
national sovereigty will have been taken.”

The Monitor itself in an editorial on
Austin’s and Molotov’s speeches said in part:
“This interchange has not greatly altered
the diplomatic positions of the two nations.
Indeed it has focused a clear light on their
differing concepis of ‘international’ as ap-
plied to methods. Russia is thinking in terms
of sovereign states agreeing by treaty to
police themselves. The United States is
thinking in some measure of their agreeing
to let the United Nations police them. But
the two speeches have produced a definite
gain — a fresh start in emphasizing the com-
mon interest of Russia and America in peace.
Even talking about disarmament is turning
attention toward peace . . . We believe that
further discussion of methods will show
superiority of the methods America pro-
poses. But we hope it will also keep open
the door toward peace and emphasize com-
mon ends more than differing methods.”

Commentator Joseph Harsch: “Had Mr.
Austin chosen, he could have picked flaws in
the Russian proposals and on the basis of
those flaws he could have argued that the
Russian virtuerested ona questionably sincere
foundation . . . . instead, he declined with
commendable dignity to indulge in recrimina-
tions and from there proceeded to go the
Russians one better on both disarmament and
on disclosure of military dispositions. . . .
‘We now have the pleasantly unaccustomed
and welcome spectable of Russian and Amer-
ican delegates vying with each other in de-
votion to the cause of disarmament. . . The
people of the world have suddenly been
given an idea, an idea that disarmament
might be had.”

--- Page 26 ---
THE GERMAN POLITICAL SCENE (continued from page 5)

pattern includes —

The German Social-Democratic Party
(SPD), well organized everywhere save in
the most’ completely rural areas as the
industrial working class, plus some middle
class and intellectual adherents, along lines
of moderate evolutionary socialism. Its
leader, Dr. Kurt Schumacher, a pre-1933
Reichstag member and for many years an
inmate of the notorious Dachau concentration
camp, maintains party headquarters at
Hanover in the British Zone, and is support-
ed by a whole hierarchy of party officials
and a number of SPD members running into
some hundreds of thousands. The party is
the direct inheritor of the SPD of the Wei-
mar and Imperial days and is largely based,
like the British Labor party, on the organ-
ized worker.

KPD SHOWS DECREASED STRENGTH

The German Communist Party (KPD) is
the present-day counterpart of the Weimar
period Communist Party and of the so-called
“maximalist’”’ left-wing of the pre-1914 SPD,
from which it split off in a series of doctrinal
disputes during and immediately following
the first World War. While it has a small
segment of middle class and_ intellectual
support, it is based largely on the left-wing
of the organized labor movement, especially
in heavy and mass production industry. Even
more than the SPD it lacks support among
the farmers and small townspeople and,
while the most vocal of all the German
parties, it ranks second to the SPD in
numbers of actual party members and extent
of organization. Despite the view often ex-
pressed during the war that Communism
would have great influence in Germany once
the Nazi regime was overthrown, election re-
sults from the western zones show the KPD
strength today to be not as great as in the
Weimar period. Despite its great activity,
the Communist Party cannot claim to have
penetrated — save in a negative way — into
the life of the
western Zones of occupation.

average German in the

The Christian Democratic Union (CDU),
largest party in the French and American
zones, is a newcomer to German politics.
Since it definitely rejects the Marxist ap-
proach, it is violently attacked from the left
as a haven for ex-Nazis and_ reactionaries.
Organized in its earliest days on a base of the
old Catholic Center Party, it has developed

_ to include the majority of the non-Marxist

23

elements in German political life and today
finds itself, as the Center party,
frequently torn by internal dissensions as to
social and economic policy. The left elements
of the CDU, organized around the Catholic
trade unions and Jed by such men as Jacob
Kaiser in Berlin, seek a new sort of “Chris-
tian socialism” as the answer to Germany’s
problems. The right’— and today ap-
parently more numerous — wing includes
the farmers and many conservatives organiz-
ed before 1933 in the German National
People’s Party (DNVP), the German People’s
Party (DVP), the Bavarian People’s Party
and many local farmer organizations such as
the Wuerttemberg Farmers and Wine-Grow-
ers League. The SPD and KPD, making
much of these new sources of support, point
out that the strong rightist DNVP was
known in Baden before 1933 as the Badenian
Christian People’s Party and that generally
the word “Christian” in a European party
name has been a substitute for “status quo”
— Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, and pre-
Dollfuss. Austria being usually cited as
examples. To this the Kaiser wing replies.
that there is no “status quo” in Germany
today and that it is imposible for the CDU,
even should its right wing so desire, to re-
turn to the “bad qld days.” Against the in-
fluence of conservatives like Dr. Adenauer,
former Chief Burgomaster of Cologne, they
point to SPD-CDU cooperation on the so-
cialization article of Greater Hesse’s pro-
posed constitution as an example of. the
orientation of the new “Christian socialism.”

was

Tn addition to the problems set it by right-
left differences, the CDU has natural diffi-

--- Page 27 ---
culties in trying to weld together its sup-
porters of Catholic and Protestant faith. In
a party which makes much of its Christian
character, religious lines of difference are
likely to be rather more important than in
most political organizations, and the joining
of Protestant and Catholic together in a polit-
ical party based largely on the churches has
rarely been attempted before on so wide a
scale. In Holland the two faiths have sep-
arate political party expression and most
other countries with church-connected polit-
ical organizations of some strength are large-
ly of one religious persuasion, as in Bel-
gium, France and Austria. So far, however,
both the economic and the religious differen-
ces appear to have been overcome — some
observers claim largely as a result of the
overpowering fear of Communism — and the
CDU remains as the largest political party
in the area of the combined western zones.

LEAST ORGANIZED GROUP

The Liberal Democratic party (LDP), va-
riously known as the Free Democratic and
as the Democratic People’s Party, the fourth
major political organization in the West, is
not really a party at all, but simply a name
applied to a group{ of non-Marxist, non-
church (especially non-Catholic) parties in
the three zones. First hailed as the proper
inheritors of the tradition of 1848, the Fort-
schrittliche (Progressive) parties of the Im-
perial day, and of the Weimar German Dem-
ocratic party, a middle-of-the-road group
to stand between CDU rightism and SPD-
KPD Marxism, the Liberal-Democratic par-
ties are passing through a period of organi-
zational and doctrinal confusion. According
to one of its leaders, the SPD and KPD have
had the organized workers on whom to base
their party apparatus and the CDU has had
the churches, while the “Democratic” parties
have had only the people. Perhaps that is
why today these parties are definitely the
least organized in the west — in many areas,
are not organized at all.

With the lack of party organization — or
perhaps because of it — these groups have

not progressed to the point at which the
observer can record a definitive struggle be-
tween right and left. In Wuerttemberg-
Baden in the US Zone, where — as the Dem-
ocratic People’s Party — greatest electoral
success has been achieved, the organization
stresses its “middle-of-the-road” line, joining
SPD and KPD on most social, religious and
educational questions, but joining with the
CDU to oppose any far-reaching socialist
economic proposals. In this Land, pre-1933
officials of the German Democratic Party
and of the liberal wing of the German
People’s party (led by Stresemann’s former
secretary) had been accustomed to working
together and they now form the leadership
of the new party there. Under their sponsor-
ship a zonal party for the whole US area
has recently been set up amalgamating the
separate Land groups into a single organi-
zation, and it may be that this development
will produce a more cohesive policy in the
future.

As against this situation, however, must be
set the picture of the LDP and FDP (Free
Democratic party) in the British zone. There,
in the non-Catholic areas outside the Rhine-
land, these parties have largely become the
nucleus of right-wing groups and the great-
est object of SPD-KPD attack. Thus, in
many parts of the newly organized Land
Niedersachsen the FDP entered into elector-
al agreements with the Lower Saxon State
Party, a conservative and largely farmer
splinter organization seeking to re-establish
the autonomy of. the: Hanover area.

FIRST UNIFYING STEP

The SPD and KPD are strongly organi-
zed, well-knit parties with national, and even
international, affiliations, and the CDU has
at least gone to the extent of holding meet-
ings of its leaders on both zonal and nation-
al levels and of tying them together with
church connections. However, the recent US
Zone merger was the first unifying step of
the “Democratic” parties.

Party organization in the Soviet Zone is
much more difficult to evaluate than:in the

--- Page 28 ---
western areas of occupation. While the Sov-
iet authorities were the first to license polit-
ical parties they have also-kept a stricter
control over party activity than the Western
powers and the emergence of the Socialist
Unity Party (SED) as a “government” party
with the CDU and LDP consigned to the role
of “loyal opposition” makes comparisons dif-
ficult. That this policy of control has con-
siderable opposition may be evidenced in the
strongly pro-SPD vote in the Berlin city
elections 20 October as constrasted to the
uniform pluralities rolled up for the SED in
the Soviet Zone proper. LDP and CDU
leaders have conistently maintained that
discriminations in the matter of meetings,
paper supplies, campaign facilities, and even
the right to put up lists of candidates —
combined with a strong pro-SED line — have
operated against their efficient functioning
as political parties.

PICTURE REMAINS SIMILAR

While the peculiarities of the Soviet Zone
make comparative evaluations difficult, the
pattern of party support in the western zones
shows a general sameness to that of the
1919—1933 period. There are divergences
from the pattern, and within left and right
there have been substantial internal shifts
(especially the movement of leftist voters
from the KPD to the SPD), but the broad
picture remains the same. Nor, perhaps could
any substantial changes be expected on a
stage of party activity and elections which
necessarily leaves most major policy in the
hands of the occupation powers. A people
as substantially divided as the Germans into
Arbeiter (workers) and Buergerliche in poli-
tics, literature, art and even sport, cannot be
expected to throw off the voting habits of
two generations in a matter of a few years.

But it should not be felt that today’s Ger-
man poltical parties are at swords points on
every issue. of public controversy. On the
contrary, as will become more and more evi-
dent with the emergence of popularly-elected
legislative bodies at the Land level, there are
a great number of issues on which there is

25

general agreement — refugees, frontiers, land
reform, a certain measures of socialization,
and many others — many, indeed, far be-
yond the power of the parties to effect. Of
all the parties only one can be said to have
already won its point — the Lower State
Party has seen the re-emergence of the Han-
over area as a separate State after eighty
years of Prussian control. But such is the
nature of political parties that it cannot be
expected that therefore this one will cease to
exist. It, like the others, will seek to make
its views felt in the gradual emergence of a
democratic Germany. All the parties will
suffer from internal squabbles and disputes
— personal, ideological, and perhaps with no
apparent basis at all. All will seek to clarify
their programs in the coming legislative ses-
sions in the US Zone and in the constitution-
making work in the British and French
zones. All will seek to put their best foot
forward to the voters even as do their col-
leagues in other countries.

In so doing the political parties will -be
playing one of the most important roles in —
the life of a modern democracy. It is per-
haps possible that democracy can exist today
in a large modern state without political par-
ties, but it is highly doubtful. Conversely,
it is certain that the first groups to feel the
brunt of any totalitarian regime are those
same political parties. The job of the Ger-
man parties in the whole picture of demo-
cratic re-education is of primary importance
in the rebuilding of the democratic world.

Freight Movements

To expedite the movements of potatoes,
sugar beets and wood in the Wuerttemberg-
Baden area, 450 freight cars in poor con-
dition have been put back into service. A
study was made of the unloading capacity
of four sugar beet factories in the Reichs-
bahndirection, Stuttgart, and it was found
that they are able to unload 400 cars every
24 hours. It will take these factories until
1 January to complete the sugar beet move-
ment.

--- Page 29 ---
PROGRESS BY MG

Germany was disrupted, whereas in Septem-
ber 1946, more than 2,350,000 children were
back in school. Buildings are still inadequate.
Textbooks are insufficient. Nevertheless, the
children are obtaining the benefits of educa-
tional discipline under the democratic concept
of school life which prevails in America.

ACTIVITY OF GERMAN PRESS

In May 1945, the German press had to
suspend its activities. In September of this
year there were 42 newspapers being printed
in our zone, with a circulation of 5,500,000
copies. These papers do not yet represent a
completely free press as they are prohibited
from criticizing Allied policy in Germany.
However, they are free to criticize Military
Government. There is no pre-censorship of
their context.

Besides the Gerrhan publications an overt
American newspaper and_ several
American magazines are printed in Germany
to inform Germans about America. A Ger-
man press-service agency has been licensed
to operate in the United States Zone. There
is no more important objective for our Mili-
tary Government than the establishment of
a free and independent press in Germany.

overt

Likewise, German radio broadcasting
stations have been re-established and are
being utilized in balanced educational and
recreational programs to promote democracy
in German life.

STEPS TOWARDS SELF-GOVERNMENT

In May 1945, there was no German ad-
ministration. State and local governments
were run by Military Government detach-
ments with such German help as could be
appointed on the spot. Shortly after sur-
render, Military Government created three
German states in the United States Zone. One
— Bavaria — had a long tradition; the other
two, Greater Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden
had to be established. German administra-
tions headed by Ministers-President, were
appointed to conduct the administration of

"26

(Continued from page 13)

these statés under our supervision of Military
Government. They were given many ad-
ministrative functions formerly belonging to
the National Government to accord with our
policy for decentralization of governmental
authority.

The first elections were held in our zone
in the fall of 1945, at the village level. Our
policy in Germany required the building of
democratic processes from the bottom up.
Today there are elected, politically clean
German officials for all villages, cities, and
counties. They have been given full respon-
sibility for local government subject only to
general supervision by our field detachments.

Last month elected Constitutional As-
semblies in the three states in the United
States Zone completed democratic state
constitutions. These are to be submitted now
for ratification by the German people who
will, at the same time, elect state officials.

DEMILITARIZATION PROGRAM

The United States Zone has been demilitar-
ized. The Wehrmacht has been demobilized.
The war plants in our Zone have been, or
are now being, destroyed. More than
1,700,000 individual records have been
examined and more than 400,000 Nazi Ger-
mans have been removed from places of prom-
inence. A still more comprehensive denazi-
fication program is being undertaken by
German administration under Military Gov-
ernment supervision. The trial of major war
criminals in zonal courts composed of United
States judical personnel, is now under way.

The immediate economic conditions in the
United States Zone are not favorable. This
is due largely to a shortage of coal which is
not available in appreciable quantity within
our zone. Additional measures are being
taken to increase coal production as the re-
vival of German economy depends on more
coal becoming available.

Nevertheless, rapid economic improve-
ment has been made possible as coal does
become available through extensive repairs

--- Page 30 ---
to peace-time industries. An economic uni-
fication program is being undertaken with
the British Zone which should also assist.

Labor unions have been reestablished from
the ground up. We believe that we have
healthy, democratic, and free trade unions
joined in state federations in each of the
three states in the United States Zone.

QUADRIPARTITE GOVERNMENT

In July 1945, the Headquarters of Mili-
tary Government was placed in Berlin so
that its personnel could be in daily associa-
tion with the Soviet, British and French
representatives who compose the Allied
Control Authority. Differences in economic
and political thinking have prevented to date
the establishment of a true quadripartite gov-
ernment for Germany as a whole. There is
still no central German governmental
machinery. Nevertheless, quadripartite gov-
ernment should not be considered as a
complete failure. The Allied Control Council,
the Coordinating Committee, and more than
116 subcommittees are meeting constantly to
discuss and to solve problems which pertain
to Germany as a whole. Many uniform
measures have been enacted; such as laws
for the punishment of war criminals, for de-
nazification, for demilitarization, for labor
practices, for price controls, and criminal
code legislation applicable throughout Ger-
many.

IMPORTANT ASSOCIATION

The representatives of the four powers
have worked together now for more than
15 months. They have learned to know
each other, respect each other, and even to
understand why patience is so necessary in
effecting agreements for the treatment of
Germany as a whole. The value of this as-
sociation cannot be under-estimated. If basic
differences can be resolved at governmental
level, it promises much for the future.

Military Government has to face the con-
tinuing problems of redeployment and of
recruitment. However, it is proud of the
devoted service which it has had from many

27

hundreds of Americans. Many of its workers
have stayed in Germany at personal sacrifice,
realizing that the successful accomplishment
of our mission is basically a part of winning
the war.

There are many problems still ahead. The
permanent resettlement of 1,500,000 expellees
from Czechoslovakia and Hugary is both an
economic and social task. The minimum
German economy must be restored soon if
we are to have any hope of lasting success in
re-educating the German people to a peaceful
philosophy of life and in implanting per-
manently the democratic processes in which
we believe.

However, the foundation is being laid.
Special emphasis is being given to the en-
couragement of youth activities throughout
the United States Zone. Military Government
and the Army are fully cognizant that the
promise of democracy lies in German youth
which must be given hope and encourage-
ment for the future.

EFFORT TO REVIVE EXPORTS

All possible measures within the present
resources of our Zone and within the limita-
tions of zonal boundaries are being pushed
vigorously to improve the present standard
of living. Every effort is being made to
revive German exports to develop dollar pro-
ceeds to lower the cost of occupation.

These measures do not mean that there
has been, or will be, any let-up in our basic
objectives for the destruction of Germany’s
war potential, the demobilization of its
military might, the denazification of Ger-
many and the punishment of its war crimi-
nals.

It does mean that hand in hand with the
accomplishment of these objectives goes the
constructive phase of our program — the
development of self-responsibility in the
German people through democratic processes.
Our Military Government is but an instru-
ment of American government which has, as
its sole purpose, the execution of the policy
of the United States in Germany.

--- Page 31 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Continued from page 2)

Military Government Regulations.

Aircraft in the European Theater Assigned to Pools.
Reestablishment of Wage Statistics .

Transportation for Army Exchange Service Soft Drinks Botting Plants
Backlog of Deperdents .

Literacy Training

Hunting and Fishing Policy .

Instructions to Special Branch Offices on Denazification under the
“Law for Liberation from National Socialism and Militarism”
Directive No 39, Liquidation of German War and Industrial Potential
Turn-in Points for Ordnance Equipment

Revision of MG Plants and Operations Necessitated by Adoption of
German Land Constitutions and Bi-Zonal Agreement with British MG
Identif cation .

Applications for Recruitment of new Personnel, Renewal of Contracts,
Future Reductions in Personnel, etc.

Tipping in Army Installations

Availability of US Applicants for Employment (Issue No 3)
Downgrading of Civil Censorship Submissions .

Personnel Survey of the Army as of 15 Nov 46

Advance Copy of Amendments fo Part 1. “Price Control,” Title 13,

“Trade and Commerce,” Military Government Regulations .

Vehicle and Traffic Code .

AG 010.6 (CO)
21 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Circular No 156
22 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 248.3 (MD)
22 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 500 GDS-AGO
22 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGO
22 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 353 GCT-AGO
23 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 680 GEC-AGO
23 Cet 1946, USFET

AG 014.311 (IA)
23 Oct 1946. OMGUS

AG 004 (ED)
23 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 475 ORD-AGO
23 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 010.1 :CO)
25 Oct 1946, OMGUS

Circular No. 158
25 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 230.02 (CO)
26 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 600.9 GAP-AGO
26 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 201.62
26 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 312.1 (IA)
28 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 320.2 (PO)
29 Oct 1946, OMGUS

ED 300.6 (P&C)
1 Nov 1946, OMGUS

Circular No 160
2 Nov 1946, USFET

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

28