--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 69 / 25 NOVEMBER 1946

LUMBER BARGE SKIPPER

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
OPF MARBURG

| AUTERBACH,
OBER ~
LAHNKREIS
FRIEOBERG
‘BODINGEN
es QBERTAUNU

OFFENBACH
AUBERBISCH ~
OFSHEIM
BRUCHSAE
‘oa BACKNANG
PEORZHEIM

NBER’
WAIBLINGE!

BOBLINGEN

ROTEN BURG

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

9
INFORMATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Apprehensions Program

Restoration to Duty of General Prisoners .

Current Arms or Services in Overseas Theaters for Enlistment in
Regular Army .

Armistice Day — Thanksgiving Bay . 6. oe eee
Survey and Disposal . . . fonts gs

Uniforms .

1946 Theater WAC Tennis Championship . . . . «+.

Backlog of Dependents

Repeal of Certain Statutory Provisions Relating #0 Succession

Interzonal Travel .

Rail Travel in British Zone of Occupation

Fingerprinting of Unidentified Bodies

Blank Forms

AG 220.712 PMG-AGO
25 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 253 PMG-AGO
29 Oct 1946, USFET

AG 342.06 AGB
2 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 006 AGO
2 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 600.9 GDS-AGO
4 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 421 GAP-AGO

‘6 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 353.8 SSP-AGO
7 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 230 GAP-AGO
8 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 010 (LD)
8 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 516 (1A)
9 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 531 GDS-AGO
9 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 200.2 (IA)
9 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 461 (AG)
12 Nov 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
amay be obtained by ‘writing directly to the originating headquarters. ‘

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Byers

LUMBER BARGE SKIPPER = The picture on
this week’s cover shows the Dutch capiain of
the Rhine barge “Gounod,” making an entry
in the ship's log during a trip trom Karlsruhe,
Germany, to Rotterdam, Holland. The “Gounod”
was hauling the fist shipment of German
lumber for Britain contracted for under a
recent export agreement. For ofher pictures
of the frip up the Rhine, see “Lumber Ship-
ment” on pages 14-15.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Kaiser Wilhelm Society is the story of the
founding and growth of the German socientific
research institutes. 1 was written by Edward
©. Strobel, Reports Officer of the Finance
Division, COOMGUS, and a former exchange
student at the University of Goettingen.

Benno D. Frank, Chief of Theater and Music
Control, Office of the Director of Information
Control, OMGUS, prepared the material for The
Theater. A former army officer, Mr. Frank served
with Psychological Warfare Division, Twelfth
Army Group, before joining Military Government
in June 1945.

Land Reform was prepared by Philip M. Raup,
Assistant. Chief of fhe Land Section, Food
and Agriculture Branch, Economics Division;
OMGUS. Mr. Raup who was formerly asso-
ciated with the Brookings Institute, Washington,
D.C., served as a naval officer during the war.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Kaiser Wilhelm Society
Clemency Board

The Theater

Land Reform

Lumber Shipment
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

11
14

16
20
22

--- Page 7 ---
Di and effective contribution to-
ward the preparation of two world wars,
while operating under the guise of peaceful
scientific research, was the count that sound-
ed the death knell for the Kaiser Wilhelm
Society for the Promotion of Science. The
much vaunted Society met the same fate
and for the same reason — that of being a
dangerous war potential — as such industries
as I. G. Farben. This scientific potential for
war was destroyed when the Allied Coor-
dinating Committee agreed in August to dis-
solve the Society as such but to allow in-
dividual institutes to continue peaceful re-
search under close supervision.

This institution of the early twentieth
century was the degeneration of a concept
laid down by Wilhelm von Humboldt more
than a hundred years before. After the turn
of the century the Germans had become con-
scious of the fact that German scientific re-
search was being over-shadowed by advance-
ments made in other countries. Large sums
of money were being spent in France, Eng-
land, and the United States by individuals,
industrial enterprises, and even by the gov-
ernments themselves to establish centers
where scientists, unhampered by teaching ac-
tivities, could devote all their time and
energy to scientific research.

On the occasion of the centennial. celebra-
tion of the Royal Friedrich Wilhelm Univer-
sity in Berlin in 1910, Kaiser Wilhelm II,
referring to Humboldt’s plan for the organ-
ization of German science and higher educa-
tion, spoke with pointed significance of the
“sacred task of the present” to call into be-

--- Page 8 ---
a
*
Se

FF

ing scientific research institutes which should
function independently of the universities
and colleges. Describing it as his “sovereign
duty” to arouse general interest in the under-
taking, he appealed to the nation for both
material and moral aid in establishing these
institutes, so urgently needed to give prom-
inence to Germany’s scientific life. Thus
the jubilee of the University of Berlin, whose
fame had spread throughout the civilized
world through the labors of men like Hum-
boldt, Fichte, Hegel, Schleiermacher, Nie-
buhr, Ranke, Helmholtz, and Koch presented
a new aspect in the development of German
intellectual life.

FOUNDED IN JANUARY 1911

Three months later on January 11, 1911
about 200 persons, prominent in the fields of
science, education, industry, banking, and
business, founded under the patronage of the
Kaiser, a society to promote science for the
benefit of the German Reich through the
erection and maintenance of scientific re-
search institutes. Within a few days, RM
15,000,000 as basic capital and an annual
income of more than RM 100,000 in member-
ship dues were guaranteed, and additional
sums were donated for special purposes, such
as building and equipping individual in-
stitutes.

Although the founding of the Kaiser Wil-
helm Society for the Promotion of Science
actually took place in 1911, the cornerstone
for the Society was really laid in November
1909 when Adolf von Harnack addressed an
inaugural letter to the Kaiser. In this letter,

(Continued on page 25)

Sketches by Stenbock

--- Page 9 ---
he US Board of Clemency for the period-

ical review of cases of prisoners sentenced
by MG and German courts in the US Zone
began operation last month. It held hearings
in two of the major prisons in Bavaria and
either paroled or granted unconditional re-
lease to 26 German prisoners. This marked
the establishment of a system of regular re-
view and parole throughout the US Zone as
contemplated and authorized by MG regula-
tions on legal and penal administration.

The jurisdiction of the Board of Clemency
\is Zone-wide in scope, and it has authority to
consider all cases arising in the MG and
German courts in which sentences of im-
prisonment were imposed and are being serv-
ed. Operating under the direct supervision
of the Director of the Legal Division, OMG-
US, the board is composed of two lawyers
and two prison officials. It is empowered

(Leit) Entrance and administra-
tion building of the Aichach
Prison where the US Clemency
Board meets. Signal Corps Photo

to grant clemency, parole, and amnesty.

For the present, only cases involving sen-
tences from one to six years inclusive are be-
ing considered. This limitation is a tempo-
rary expedient and is based on the assumption
ihat by far the majority of petitioners de-
serving consideration are to be found among
prisoners serving sentences of comparatively
short duration. It was felt that prisoners
serving long-term sentences will ‘not suffer
undue hardship if action on their petitions is
deferred. However, provisions will be made
for hearing of petitions jnvolving sentences
of more than six years if screening of
case records reveals unusual ‘and par-
ticularly deserving cases. Cases involving
displaced persons will probably ‘not be con-
sidered, since 4 policy of repatriation of such
prisoners is already established.

Thé Board of Clemency plans to hold hear-

--- Page 10 ---
ings in all major penal institutions of the
three Laender. The itinerary of the board
is determined by the number of petitions re-
ceived from individual prisons and on the
ba

is of priorities to be given prisons where
particularly serious over-crowded Conditions
exist.

Prison wardens in the US Zone have been
furnished clemency petition forms for dis-
tribution among prisoners presently eligible
io be considered for clemency. The prison
wardens have been directed to assist the
prisoners in the proper completion of the
forms. .They must also make recommenda-
tions for the approval or disapproval of the
petition based on the prisoner’s conduct and
attitude during confinement. Completed forms
are then forwarded through channels to the
board for processing.

PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS

‘When the board decides to hold a hearing
in a particular prison, the chief legal officer
of the Land where the prison is situated is
notified and is requested to supply the neces-
y clerical help. The court records of the
prisoners whose petitions are to be considered

sa

are made available to the board for study
and reference. The sessions of the board are
held in the prison where the petitioners who
appear before the board are confined. They

are questioned by its members to ascertain
all facts and personal data required to deter-
mine the need for clemency and the condi-
tions of release to be imposed if clemency
be granted.

DECISIONS BY MAJORITY VOTE

At the end of each s
the board coordinates the findings of the
members of the board in the form of opinions
appended to the orders, giving the reason for
The decisions are

on the president of

decision in each case.
taken by a majority vote, and the dissenting
member may indicate his dissent and the
reasons therefore, which are made part of
the record kept on each petitioner. The chief
legal officer of the Land concerned is then
given copies of the orders of. the board for
appropriate action.

The board’s decisions are based on many
factors, such as the family status of the
prisoner, his prison record, severity of the
offense, and possible employment if release is
granted. The guiding principle is to deter-
mine whether any useful purpose can be serv-
ed by further confiinement of the prisoner.

The work of the board will undoubtedly
strengthen the belief of the Germans that the
Americans are truly interested in the welfare
of the individual and are aiding in the re-
habilitation of deserving cases.

The members of the US Board of Clemency listen to

a case at the Aichach Women's Penitentiary in Bavaria. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 11 ---
© morning a few weeks ago the
theater columns of Berlin’s Der Mor-
gen and Tagesspiegel read like the Times
or Herald Tribune in the New York of Jan-
1935.) The saying the
German equivalent of “I think we have a

uary crities were
hit on our hands,” and all Berlin was laugh-
ing at the new comedy, Three Men Ona

Horse.

liners, who had not laughed for so long,

Moreover, it was evident that Ber-

were in need of something so zany and care-
free as this play, for it has had more than
130 performances to date and will easily
last for the rest of the year, making the
longest run of any play in Berlin since the
occupation.

Three Men On a Horse is but one of many
American plays already presented or plan-

Performers in the Berlin production of “Three Men on a Horse” which is
currently enjoying the longest run of any play in Berlin since the occupation,

ned. for

the German theater. under the
auspices of the Office of Information Control,
OMGUS. Such plays as Thornton Wilder’s
Our Town and The Skin of Our Teeth, Paul
Osbarn’s On Borrowed Time, Clifford Odet’s
Awake and Sing, Behrmann’s Biography and
others have been highly successful in the
theaters of Berlin and the American Zone.
Most of these plays are very different from
the usual fare of German theater-goers, both
during the Nazi regime and before.
the success that American plays have enjoy-
ed is even more amazing in the light of the
past history and traditions of the German
theater.

The theater in Germany has never been
purely entertainment but was considered a
moral institution which deserved the support

--- Page 12 ---
of the best of the nation. “Almost all the
theaters were subsidized and supported by
the state or municipal authorities, and the
German people were avid theater-goers. It
is difficult for Americans to understand that
towns with a population of 50,000 to 60,000,
as for instance, Darmstadt, had an opera
house, an operetta house, a symphony or-
chestra, and two legitimate theaters playing
throughout the whole year. Nearly every
town has at least one legitimate theater.
Cities like Stuttgart, Wiesbaden, Frankfurt,
Munich, Kassel, Regensburg, Mannheim and
Heidelberg have opera houses alone which
are performing every day throughout the
year.

Theater people in the US appreciate how
difficult it is to find a suitable cast for an
average Shakespeare performance, but the
Germans do not see any problem in putting
on at least ten different Shakespeare or other
classical performances in any average town
throughout the year, including plays like
King Lear, The Tempest, and others. True,
it is not always the best cast, but it is an
ensemble, versatile, adaptable, and capable

of playing Shakespeare on Monday, Lehar
on. Tuesday, Verdi on Wednesday, Shaw
on Thursday, and some slap-stick comedies

» during the rest of the week. It would be

inconceivable to a German to go without
his municipal theater. To some extent, the
theater represents the educational and cul-
tural standards of Germany.

SITUATION AT TIME OF SURRENDER

When the US theater and music person-
nel of the ODIC arrived in Germany, they
found all theaters closed by an order of
Himmler and Goebbels. All artists had been
assigned to. some work to help the German
war machine. There was nothing left but
the memory of the great tradition of Ger-
man theater, and MG could not control a
theater which did not exist. Many of the
great artists had been more or less affiliated
with the Nazi regime, which was only
natural, as the regime had exploited the
theater and its prestige for political pur-
poses. There were only a few prominent
actors left who had not been invited to par-
ties given by Nazis from Hitler on down to

Two members of the cast of “The Skin of Our Teeth,” one of many Ameri-
can plays which are being presented or planned for the German Theater.

--- Page 13 ---
the pettiest party official. Since German
theaters had always been subsidized and
controlled by government agencies, it was
a simple matter to centralize the entire pro-
fession under the personal supervision of
Joseph Goebbels, who was not only an ex-
cellent showman for the Nazi party and
the German Reich, but who was also quite
a skillful expert of Film-Theater-and-Music
affairs, devoting a lot of his time to their
production and to their female represen-
tatives.

Adolf Hitler gave much consideration to
the theater while he was in power, but he
did not succeed in introducing genuine Nazi
writers to the German stage. His was mostly
a negative job. Liberals and Jews were
evicted and were replaced by reliable Nazis.
There were exceptions made, not because
of liberalistic considerations, but because
“of the need to keep up the theater as a
morale booster for his war machine. For
twelve years the German theater had to live
without humanistic or liberal plays of signif-
icance. [t was isolated and solely dependent
on the politically-censored German literature.

DENAZIFICATION LIMITED FIELD

A peculiar situation existed when the
theater and music branches of OMGUS began
operation. All the artists returned, looking
for possibilities, chances, and jobs. There
were opera singers, actors, comedians, va-
riety artists, and in Munich a man with four
lions and six elephants who wanted to know
what MG could do to get his animals fed
and billeted. Since the theater people knew
that only a small number of them could be
employed because of the lack of facilities
and housing, the task of denazification was
relatively simple. They themselves did
everything they could to kill competition.
Knowing too that MG officials were more in-
terested in political backgrounds than talent,
they were only too willing to satisfy the
officers curiosity about other members of
their profession by supplying all possible
details. Since all their colleagues did ex-
actly the same thing,only a few ambitious
artists remained in the field.

The standard applied by ODIC was quite
high. No one was to be employed who had
ever been a party member or a profiteer of
the regime, and there were really only a
few artists who had not profited. It was
therefore difficult to find suitable persons
to be licensed as producers, or to be reg-
istered as actors, singers or dancers.

FOREIGN PLAYS IMPORTED

The next mission of MG, after the screen-
ing of the most politically reliable people
and the reestablishment of the theater had
been accomplished, was to import foreign
plays with foreign thoughts and culture to
the German theater. That the works of
American playwrights like O’Neill, Sher-
wood, Wilder, Saroyan, Abbott and Osborn
are being produced in Germany today is a
tribute to these authors who have willingly
accepted conditions which make it impos-
sible for them to receive at present the roy-
alties accummulating from their plays. This
money. is kept on special blocked accounts
with the Fiscal section of ODIC, OMGUS.

Of the 40 US plays on which copyright
clearance has been obtained, more than 20
have -already been translated into German
and accepted by theaters throughout the
four zones of Germany. In Berlin alone, 23
US plays are scheduled for performance this
season. This figure is quite unusual if com-
pared with the three Soviet, two British
and four French plays scheduled in Berlin
for the same period. Distribution of these
plays to all zones is effected by OMGUS,
as no German agent is allowed to handle
US plays.

“THUNDER ROCK” PRESENTED

The first American play given in German
was Robert Ardrey’s Thunder Rock. This
play was never successful in the states, but
in Germany it was accepted by more than
25 different theaters and met with great
success, both by :the German press and
public. Another play which has had a partic-
ularly noteworthy success is Clifford Odet’s
Awake and Sing. Written and produced
during the early years of Hitler’s regime,

(Continued on page 24)

--- Page 14 ---
LAND REFORM

TT mass movement of expellees, one and
one-half million strong, from such coun-
tries as Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and Austria
into the US Zone during the past year, to-
gether with the thousands of refugees and
uprooted persons from bombed-out cities and
other zones of Germany, poses staggering
problems of food and employment for the US
Zone of Germany. The immediate need for
maximizing German agricultural production
is equally urgent. Consequently every pos-
sible piece of land must be utilized to in-
crease production in every possible way.

The “Law for the Acquisition of Land for
Settlement Purposes and for Land Reform,”
adopted by the Laenderrat and subsequently
approved by the Military Governor, offers a
major contribution to the solution to these
problems. The law seeks to create small
intensively farmed and individually owned
plots from land which formerly existed as
huge unfarmed Wehrmacht properties, es-
tates or woodlands. This arrangement can
help to provide employment and food for
thousands of persons.

CLASSES OF LAND AVAILABLE

Briefly the law draws upon. three major
classes of land for settlement purposes:
Former properties of the Wehrmacht, Luft-
waffe, Nazi Party organizations, war crim-
inals, and the like; lands held by public law
corporations including the states, counties,
Gemeinden, and churches; and lands belong-
ing to private individuals, family trusts, and
private corporations. The former military
and Nazi properties will be drawn upon to
the fullest extent wherever suitable; prop-
erties of the public law corporations will

(Left) These two German farmers using
outdated equipment emphasize the need
for modern farming implements if the
Zone’s agricultural production is to be
substanially increased. Photo by Byers

--- Page 15 ---
be drawn upon when suitable and when
needed; the properties of private individuals
and corporations will be drawn upon accord-
ing to a graduated percentage scale that in-
creases with the size of the holding.

Under the law there is no absolute limit
to the size of a holding. Instead, the law
makes mandatory a land levy on all private
holdings having more than 100 hectares of
agriculturally usable land of average quality,
at rates ranging from 10 percent of 100
hectares to 90 percent of that part of any
holding exceeding 1,500 hectares (one hect-
are equals 2.47 acres). This graduation fol-
lows a ‘bracket’ system comparable with
that used in income tax practices.

LEVIES ON SMALLER UNITS

Large private estates are not a dominant
feature in the organization of land ownership
in South Germany, although they do play an
important role. The law recognizes the fact
that the demand for land settlement and the
need for intensified agriculural production
requires that land in ownership units of less
than 100 hectare may in certain communities
be required for settlement purposes. Ac-
cordingly, the law permits the levying of
the land delivery obligation on owners of
less than 100 hectare of agriculturally usable
land at a rate that decreases from 10 percent
to one percent. A lower limit is normally to
be taken as that area of land with a total as-
sessed valuation of RM 20,000. (Assessed
land values for agricultural land in the US
Zone usually range from about RM 600 to
2,000 per hectare.) However, even units of
less than RM 20,000 in assessed value may
be drawn upon for settlement land if they
lie in the neighborhood of a city or otherwise
are essential for the completion of a setile-
ment project. In such cases the owners are
compensated by being given other land.
Monetary compensation to all other classes
of former owners for land surrendered is
provided for in the law.

Public settlement authorities are to be
created in the Laender as the executive
agencies for carrying out the law. <A specific

12

attempt has been made to avoid operation of
Land trusteeship pending transfer to Bene-
ficiaries. Land will not be taken from pres-
ent owners until arrangements are completed
to turn it over to new settlers. For the first
three years the settlers will be under leases
which will confer the right to purchase the
land if at the end of that time they have
demonstrated their ability to manage it
properly.

After the first World War one of the im-
portant German legislative acts was the en-
actment of the Reich Settlement Law of 1919.
The economic, political, and «psychological
backgrounds for the enactment of this earlier
settlement law were in many respects similar
although in no way. so pressing as’ those that
prevail in Germany today. During the course
of the Weimar Republic some fairly signif-
icant results were achieved under the Reichs
Settlement Law, but it cannot be said to have
Under the
Nazis the execution of the law was not vigor-
ously pushed. Recognizing that this earlier
settlement law contains many desirable fea-
tures, the Laenderrat in the US Zone desired
to supplement and invigorate it with this
present law. Accordingly, the new law
adopted 17 September 1946, provides that
those features of the Reich Settlement Law
of 1919 which are not superseded by policy
and procedures established in this new law
are to be incorporated into the body of the
new law.

INTENSIFICATION OF PRODUCTION

Intensification of agricultural production
is provided for in two ways in this new law.
Land not now in agricultural use is to be
converted to this use and distributed under
the terms of the law, wherever possible.
Definite plans are already underway for the
conversion of forest land to agricultural pro-
duction wherever technically feasible. Such
converted lands are to come under the control
of newly established settlement authorities.
Lands reclaimed by drainage or by other soil
improvement practices will also be distribut-
ed to settlers according to machinery which

fully accomplished its purpose.

--- Page 16 ---
has been set up. It will also be possible to
promote the consolidation into economically
sized units of the many small scattered strips
of land which handicap the rationalization of
South German agriculture. Taking land from
small owners and compensating them with
other land in order to consolidate the many
scattered strip holdings, makes it possible to
invigorate “land consolidation” work. If
vigorously administered by the German au-
thorities, this can become one of the most
beneficial results achieved under the new act.

CAPITAL AND EQUIPMENT REQUIRED

The second type of intensification of agri-
culture results not from putting more land
into production but from increasing the in-
tensity with which existing farm land is
farmed. This offers the greatest promise for
South Germany, where almost all arable land
has already been brought under the plow.
The most direct means for intensifying pro-
duction is in the increased use of capital,
machinery, and fertilizer, in improved farm-
ing techniques, and in the shift from exten-
sive agricultural practices and types of crops
to intensive ones. Normally intensfication of
this type requires major outlays of capital
and the procurement of large quantities of
equipment. It is hoped that it will eventual-
ly be possible for German agriculture to
make these outlays and to procure this equip-
ment. In the meantime South German agri-
culture must proceed with the resources it
has at its command, chiefly that of human
labor.

DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERISTIC

One of the distinctive characteristics of
small peasant farms is the relatively high
proportion of livestock and animal products
which they produce. A type of farm or-
ganization in which field crops are marketed
through being fed t& livestock is a system
which permits a much more intensive use of
labor than does the production of field crops
for direct marketing and for direct human
consumption. The absence today of foreign
exchange in the German economy makes it

13

impossible to import large quantities of
cereal grains and other products of extensive
agriculture which can be grown to much bet-
ter advantage in other parts of the world
than in Germany. An organization of world
agriculture that is based on a peace-time
economy would not, however, require the
production of much extensive agriculture in
South Germany.

There is, then, some clash between a settle-
ment program leading to greater livestock
production and the present necessity for con-
centrating on crops for direct human con-
sumption. The immediate problem of holding
down livestock numbers already exists, how-
ever, and is not appreciably aggravated by
the passage of the settlement law, which is
in complete harmony with what must be the
long-range plan for German agriculture: in-
tensification, which on peasant farms means
the production of livestock products which in
turn enable the farm family to invest greater
quantities of its labor on smaller areas
of land.

SMALL FARMS INTENSELY OPERATED

Considerable misinformation exists regard-
ing the importance of medium-sized and large
farms to German agriculture. It is argued
that large farms are more productive, better
managed, and deliver a larger proportion of
produce to ‘the market than do the smaller
peasant farms. However the comparison
made between large and small farms in com-
puting productivity usually does not con-
sider the fact that the small farm does not
produce the same type of crops as does the
large farm. In South Germany the first take
the form of farms so intensively operated
that they would be regarded as truck gar-
dens in many parts of the United States.
Neither the medium-sized or large farmer,
relying on agricultural laborers, nor the
tenant farmer on leased land can afford to
invest labor in his land to the extent that it
is invested by the peasant family owning a
small area of land. Output per hectare
measured not in bushels of wheat but in total
food value produced irrespective of the type

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 17 ---
LUMBER

hen the Rhine barge “Gounod” was

loaded at Karlsruhe last month, ship-
ment began on a 15,000,000 dollar consi
ment of lumber, the largest export order to
be contracted for in the US Zone since the
beginning of the occupation. The pictures
on these two pages show activity during the
“Gounod’s” 14-day trip up the Rhine io
Rotterdam.

The “Gounod” inaugurated a run which
will be well-traveled during the next ten
months as 650,000 cubie meters of sawn
lumber is moved by Dutch barges to Rotter-

dam where 80 percent of the lumber will be

--- Page 18 ---
loaded aboard ocean vessels for shipment to
Great Britain; the remaining 20 percent will
be used in the housing program of the
Netherlands. Completion of the huge lumber
shipment is anticipated by 31 July 1946. The
first target date in the present shipping
schedule called for delivery of 100,000 cubic
meters to the British and Dutch lumber im-
porters by 15 November.

(Opposite page) Sawn lumber is loaded on the
“Gounod” at Karlsruhe under the supervision of
Dutch seamen; (above) the barge with its cargo
of covered lumber moves up the Rhine; (right) the
“Gounod’s”

skipper at the helm. Photos by Byers

--- Page 19 ---
Radio Schools Participate in

Zone’s Reeducation Program

Two schools of the air (Schulfunks) of
Radio Stuttgart and Radio Frankfurt are
now giving effective aid to the reeducation
of German children in the US Zone through
regularly scheduled broadcasts. Activities
of the ODIC, OMGUS, they are an invalu-
able substitute for teachers and textbooks,
of which there is a critical shortage.

Radio Stuttgart’s school, which has been
functioning for almost a year, offers supple-
mentary lesson material direct to the schools
of Wuerttemberg-Baden five days a week.
On Saturday mornings elementary English
lessons are given to the students of higher
grades. Radio Frankfurt offers the same
materials for the children of Greater Hesse
four mornings a week and repeats the les-
sons in the afternoons, as does Radio Stutt-
gart. Although the lesson material for both
stations is compiled by German staffs in con-
sultation with German educational authori-
ties of the Laender, the overall supervision
of the programs and special guidance are
provided by US radio control officers.

The programs include such subjects as
the development of democratic movements,
history, geography, natural sciences, liter-
ature, culture, and recent inventions. Most
of the subjects, especially biography, are
presented in the form of interesting radio
plays io avoid the monotony of the lecture
method. Afterwards, these are reviewed and
discussed by the teachers and students in
the classroom, as is done in American
schools.

Responsibility for providing radio receiv-
ers in various schools rests with the Ger-
man officials. Many schools, however, still
lack receiving sets because of the shortage
of such equipment. Close contact between
radio stations and educational authorities is
maintained to determine the utilization and
effectiveness of the programs. German edu-

16

cators react favorably to the less
they not only are a vital tary
source of material but they provide an in-
struction plan for teachers. Schedules and
subject matter are distributed among the
schools prior to the broadcasts, enabling
teachers to choose subjects related to cur-
rent lessons. MG policy in the operation’
of these schools is that they must never at-
tempt to replace the schools, but must con-
centrate on offering supplementary courses
of instruction.

Paper Granted Export Permit

A special edition of the Wiesbadener Ku-
rier became the first post-war German news-
paper in the US Zone to be given permission
to circulate outside of Germany. The edition,
featuring detailed accounts of the recently
opened Greater Hesse trade and industry
exposition, was the first to be distributed
weekly to the United States, England,
France, Holland, Belgium, Denmark, Nor-
way, Sweden, and Switzerland.

The move was undertaken to stimulate
interest in Germany’s new export program.
The Wiesbaden newspaper has a temporary
foreign circulation of 1,300 copies which
are distributed to export-import firms
through American embassies. Chambers of
commerce have been asked to handle cir-
culation in the United States.

DP Population Smaller

There were 527,274 United Nations dis-
placed persons in the US Zone of Germany,
both in and out of camps, as of 15 October,
according to official figures tabulated by
UNRRA and US military sources. The total
as of 30 September was 539,733 and as of
25 August was 547,478.

Of the October total, the largest national-
ity group was Polish, with a total of 164,034.
However, this was a decrease from the Sep-

--- Page 20 ---
tember figure of 171,960. The second largest
single group of DP’s is Jewish, with a total
of 152,635, an increase from the September
figure of 149,892.

The remainder of the October total was
made up, of 49,801 Latvians, 44,956 Danes,
Dutch and Greeks, 33,151 Lithuanians,
18,548 Estonians, 15,379 Yugoslaves, 14,042
Russians, 5,942 Czechoslovaks, 1,604 French,
832 Belgians and Luxembourgers, 93 Nor-
wegians, and 26,257 stateless persons.

In the petiod of 1 to 15 October 15,226
persons were repatriated. Of this total,
14,793 were Poles.

British Zone Briefs

The present bread shortage in the Ruhr
Area North Rhine/Westphalia, necessitated
during the second week of November the
substitution of 250 grams of sugar for 500
grams of bread coupons, and 750 grams of
dehydrated potatoes for 1,000 grams bread
coupons in towns where supplies were insuf-
ficient.

For the 95th rationing period, beginning
11 November, the daily caloric value of the
basic ration remains at 1550. There are,
however, changes in some commodities. Pota-
toes have been increased by 2,000 grams —
from 8,009 to 10,000 grams per period;
naehrmittel (has been) reduced from 1,750
to 1,500 grams, and fish reduced from 750
to 600 grams.

Up to the end of October, approximately
250,000 CARE parcels arrived in Germany
for distribution in the Zone. Each parcel
contains 40,000 calories.

Seventy teachers of the British Zone are
to attend a conference at thé college of
teachers in Brunswick 28 to 30 November.
The conference is to discuss the application
of arts and crafts to teaching.

One hundred twenty-five children of the
North Rhine areas are going to Ireland for
a three-year stay under the auspices of the
irish Red Cross Society. Upon arrival the
children will spend six weeks in a convales-
cent home and then be placed in the care
of Irish families offering to look after them.

'7

Effective 1 December the waiting period
for Germans in the British Zone qualifying
for cash sickness benefit will be reduced
from seven to three days.

Neighborhood Centers

Neighborhood centers, organized along the
lines of settlement houses in the United
States, are being constructed in the commu-
nities of Darmstadt and Frankfurt, it has
been announced by OMGUS.

The two neighborhood centers are sponsor-
ed by the American Friends Service Com-
mittee (AFSC) -and have been approved
by the Deputy Military Governor. Their
operation will be the joint responsibility of
the German Yearly Meeting of the Society
of Friends and representative leaders of the
communities in which they are located. The
American Friends are providing prefabricat-
ed buildings, furnishings, tools, and recrea-
tional material essential to the operation of
the centers.

Two Newspapers Licensed

Two more German newspapers have been
licensed, one in Stuttgart and the other in
Munich, increasing to 43 the number of Mil-
itary Government licensed papers in the
US Zone.

The first issue of the ‘“Muenchner Mit-
tag,” published three times a week in
Munich, appeared with an initial circulation
of 50,000. It is published alternately with
the other Munich paper, the ‘“Sueddeutsche
Zeitung.” Its licensees are P. A. Stern, a
Liberal Democrat editor, and Hans K. Hein-
reich, publisher, native of Munich, who is
a member of the Christian Socialist Union.

The “Stuttgarter Nachrichten” was licens-
ed in Stuttgart and will be published on
Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, with
an authorized circulation of 140,000. Henry
Bernhard, member of the Democratic
People’s Party, and Dr. Otto Faerber, of
the Christian Democratic Party, are the li-
censees. The other journal published in
Stuttgart is the “Stuttgarter Zeitung.”

--- Page 21 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The acquisition of potatoes from the
Soviet Zone has made the shipment of 25,000
tons of potatoes scheduled to be shipped
into the US sector of Berlin from Greater
Hesse unnecessary.

The availability of transportation for coal
from the Ruhr in December is not expected
to keep pace with December coal production,
due to the low water in Rhine waterways
limiting barge movement. British Zone of-
ficials have stated that an attempt will be
made to improve on the October ratio of
loading to allocations for the US Zone and
Berlin.

PULP RESERVES DEPLETED

The reduced hydrogeneration of electric
power in the US Zone industrial plants has
curtailed the availability of power for the
manufacture of mechanical pulp paper. As
a result the reserves of the pulp are rapidly
being used up.

Sufficient cloth has been released by
USFET to make uniforms for the civil police
of the US Berlin sector. Flashlights for
police use are being obtained from the AES.

German agencies of the US Zone are being
instructed not to allocate material imported
under the approved export program to inter-
nationally recognized cartels.

BRONZES RETURNED TO FRANCE

Recent items of restitution include Rodin’s
famous bronze sculptured group called “The
Burghers of Calais” which has been returned
to France along with a shipment of other
art objects, furniture and tapestries, looted
by a Nazi agency. A statue of a Greek god-
dess has been returned to Greece and a col-
lection of art ohjects and furniture is again
in the hands of its rightful owners in the
Netherlands. Receipts are being prepared to
return Danube river craft to France and to
countries through which the Danube flows.

The Allied Economics Directorate has
agreed to allocate general purpose equipment
from 53 war plants to the IARA nations,

18

which is 75 percent of the total value, and
from 17 war plants to the Soviet Union, the
remaining 25 percent.

General purpose equipment from two
plants in Bavaria has also been offered as
reparations. These include 25 buildings
especially constructed for making explosives
which will be destroyed early in December,
and the tunnel approach encasements to the
Bavarian Messerschmitt plant, also scheduled
for demolition.

Nearly one-half million jute bags and 30
bales of jute cloth have been released from
MG stocks for German civilian use. ,

A former Nazi party property has been
sold to the Land Insurance Company of
Wuerttemberg for use as a_ tuberculosis
hospital. The money received from the sale
has been placed in a blocked account in ac-
cordance with MG regulations.

OCCUPATION COSTS INCREASE

Occupation costs, which consist of pay-
ments made by local German authorities for
services rendered and supplies furnished to
the occupying forces, amounted to RM 313
million in the three Laender for the period
of July to September. This represents an
increase of 24 percent over the costs incurred
during the preceding three months.

A German zonal conference of the Institute
for Educational Film, Munich, was held in
Stuttgart on 5.November for the purpose of
discussing ways and means of teaching new
instructors the aims and methods of using
educational films in the class room. It was
decided that teacher-training institutions
should develop courses for this purpose.

Plans have been completed to afford em-
ployment of approximately 1,000 displaced
persons in German factories making clothing
for DP’s. In addition, four in-camp clothing
projects are being set up which will employ
about 400 persons. Surveys are being made
to determine the feasibility of setting up
other such in-camp projects and using dis-
placed persons in German factories.

--- Page 22 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies .of the quoted
circulars, letters and directives may be
obtained by authorized personnel by writing
to the originating headquarters.

Testimony in Courts

Provisions: from Regulation No. 2 under
MG Law No. 2 concerning testimony in
German courts by persons subject to US
military law and those associated with
American MG are quoted in USFET Circular
No. 154 “for the information and guidance
of all concerned.” The quoted provisions
include the following:

Upon written request made by the pres-
ident of a German Court to the appropriate
approving authority hereinafter indicated
the following persons may be permitted to
testify as witnesses in German Courts:

Upon approval by the commanding officer
of the detachment, company or higher com-
mand, exercising direct supervision and
control over the witness:

1. Military personnel of the United States
and of United Nations serving with the
tactical armed forces or with the American
MG.

2. Non-military personnel serving with or
employed by the tactical armed forces of
the United States.

3. Other persons subject to US military
law including dependents of the above.

Upon approval by a Director of an Of-
fice of Military Government, or his designee.
exercising supervision over the witness: Non-
military personnel serving with or employed
by the Office of Military Government, or
their dependents.

The testimony of persons authorized by
the approving authority to appear as wit-
nesses in German courts shall be given only
upon such conditions as may by specified
by the approving authority provided,

19

however, that, the matter on which the testi-
mony is sought is not classified matter, that
the testimony is not prejudicial to the in-
terests of MG or of the Armed Forces of the
United States, and that copies of official
papers and copies of reports of inquiries are
not requested or furnished in connection
with such testimony.

No former member or employee of the US
Armed Forces or former MG employee shall
be permitted to testify before a German
court concerning any information acquired
by him as the result of such membership
or employment of which involves the activ-
ities of the Armed Forces or of the MG or
its personnel, unless expressly permitted to
do so in writing by the commanding officer
of the unit of which he was a member or
at which he was employed, or, if the testi-
mony concerns the Office of Military Gov-
ernment of the United States, then by the
Director of the Office of Military Govern-
ment for the Land in which such German
court is situated.

No person subject to the US military law,
and no MG employee, other than a German
national, shall be subject to punishment by
any German court for any contempt for such
court, but such contempt may be referred
by the court before which the testimony was
requested to the appropriate approving
authority mentioned above for appropriate
action.

Highway Traffic Regulations

“Highway traffic regulations, including
speed limits, traffic signs, etc., established
by the US military do not apply to German
civilian highway traffic, except that they
may apply when so described by area com-
manders within the limits of areas defined
as US military communities, and when
posted in the German and English
languages,” according to an OMGUS
directive, AG 611 (TD) “Highway Traffic
Regulations,” dated 23 October 1946.

--- Page 23 ---
Denazification Program Viewed
As Essential by Licensed Press

The “unmistakable earnestness” of the
Deputy Military Governor in his admonition
to the Laenderrat early this month for the
Germans to achieve better results in their
denazification work was described by the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) as justifying
the anxiety of all those who wanted to see
the denazification law justly and strictly
carried into effect. The newspaper’s editorial
continued:

“Tt is senseless, even grotesque, when the
Germans on the one hand fight passionately
against the thesis of collective guilt (thereby
acknowledging that some of them are guilty).
but on the other side by their attitude toward
denazification are practically trying to make
the world believe that none of them ever
was guilty...

“If we do not deal rigorously with these
elements . . . then those are right who find
all of us Germans guilty and who see in the
catastrophic consequences of our failure
nothing but just punishment. When the
Deputy Military Governor says: ‘Denazifica-
tion is a must,’ it is up to us to answer: ‘We
are not forced to, we want to see the brown
activitists behind barbed wire.’ ”

* * 3

In an editorial on the same subject, the
Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg) said:
“An occupation, even when it has the best
will to help, will always be felt as a burden.
And yet we must rid ourselves of doing
something only when it is ordered; we must
find the strength to act on our own initiative
when necessary.”

Pointing to the eagerness of some appeal
boards to rehabilitate the accused in order
to get needed expert labor and to the mild-
ness of some sentences, the Wiesbadener
Kurier said ihe Deputy Military Governor
“left no doubt that Military Government will

not hestitate
into its own ha ;
continue to show a disinclination to” fulfill
the sense of the law.”

* * *

A picture layout was used by the Mittel-
hayerische Zeitung (Regensburg) in con-
nection with an article on the anniversary of
the “Night of Nazi Shame,” 9 November
1938, which climaxed the anti-Semitic out-
rages in Germany. The newspaper said:

“The blood guilt which the Nazis took
upon themselves that night still weighs upon
us all today! For this Nazi guilt destined us
for the poverty, distress, and the ruins of
today. We accuse, and we will not rest until
the last criminal of the Nazi period has come
before his judges and been sentenced.”

Terrorism Condemned

Referring to recent terrorist actions in the
US Zone against denazification chambers and
arsonist actions in Saxony against expropri-
ated works, the US-licensed evening news-
paper Der Abend in Berlin declared these
reports are both alarming and shameful. The
paper found the actions alarming because
they show resort to brutal force, and shame-
ful because they manifest a political im-
maturity.

These actions, continued the paper, show
that there are still persons among the Ger-
mans who do not think Germany’s need big
enough nor her guilt great enough. Asking
the terrorists whether they believe they
serve the German people by their provoc-
atory acts, the paper observed that they
show a complete misunderstanding of the
entire situation.

“Of course, there are some things which
not everyone approves,” the paper pointed
out. “However, this does not mean that
grievances can be removed by further false
actions . . . Explosive actions arising from

--- Page 24 ---
mere feelings do not serve us... .”

In conclusion, finding no excuse for such
actions, the paper declared they must. in.
~any case be condemned _becatise they con-
stituté-ckimes — crimes: which handicap the
entire nation. ae

Election Pleases CDU

The Neue Zeit, CDU organ in Berlin, car-
ried a resolution passed by the management
of the party, expressing its satisfaction with
the Berlin election. The party management
cited the voting in Berlin and the zones as
proof of the justness of the ideas and
practical achievements of the party.

“The voting result,” declared the resolu-
tion, “constitutes a decisive step forward
on the way to democratization of the Ger-
man people. The voting result reveals the
courage and determination of the voters to
defend and make secure democratic freedom.
. .. The management of the party is fully
aware that the confidence of so many voters
in the Union constitutes a great and im-
portant responsibility and duty ... We are
willing to take over our share of responsibility
and to collaborate loyally with all other
parties willing to do so.”

Peace-time Industry

The British licensed Socialdemocrat declar-
ed the German people do not want gifts nor
want to be beggars but desire to be allowed
to set up peace-time industry. Stating that
the victors know this and want to permit
Germany to overcome her present stalemate
along peaceful lines, the paper declared:
“They have not yet been able to create the
presuppositions for this.”

Such a presupposition, contended the
paper, is that only those works should be
dismantled which are not necessary for
German peace industry. The paper pointed
out that the population is worried about
dismantlings of German essential industrial
plants.

“The German people need confidence
more than anything else,” declared the paper.
“We can’t live without hope and therefore
we think it right to state that the words of

21

those men . . . who have the power to decide
the fate of the German people must be
brought.into accordance with the actions of
the occupation forces.”

Bavarian Constitution

In urging all Bavarians to accept the
proposed constitution for the Land, the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung said, “A constitution,
which is to retain its effect for decades, must
be anchored in the people through the agree-
ment of the great majority, which could never
be attained in Germany when only one party
stood behind it... Every sincere democrat
can give his vote to the new constitution.
That it represents a bulwark of democracy
is attested, along with the parties which vot-
ed for it, by the consent of the Military Gov-
ernment. The three smaller parties, which
refused their consent, have approved large
portions and objected only to isolated pas-
sages.”

Power Shortage

Both the CDU organ, Neue Zeit, and Der
Abend, US licensed organ, noted that the US
Military Government has ordered the power
in its sector of the city, to be distributed
equally, renouncing special rights for mil-
itary installations.

Pointing out that the increased shipment
of current from the provinces is only
temporary, the papers stated that the order
issued by American military authorities to
share the cuts in current in their sector, is
permanent.

“Result of this new order is that the
current will have to be cut only four hours
a day in the American sector,” declared
the papers.

Hard Winter Anticipated

“The second post-war winter has begun —
can the miracle be repeated, will Germany
go through another winter without a release
of the millionfold social tensions?” said the
Heilbronner Stimme. “For, let us be realistic:
this winter will be harder and more
dangerous than the past winter .. .”

--- Page 25 ---
PRESS and RADIO COMMENTS

Truman’s Plea for Cooperation
Viewed as Statesmanlike Move

American newspapers called President
‘Truman’s post election appeal for party co-
operation in meeting future domestic and
world problems both wise and statesmanlike
and noted favorable reaction to his statement
expressed by leaders of the opposition Re-
puplican Party.

They pointed out, however, that words
must be put into action during the coming
session of Congress. Editors generally con-
ceded that chances for cooperation in foreign
affairs are excellent, but saw the real test
looming in the field of domestic affairs
where issues are more sharply drawn.

Among newspapers, the St. Louis Post
Dispatch said in part: Conciliatory though
he was, eager though he obviously is for
peace with Congress, he did not lower his
office. Instead, he reminded Congress that the
President has co-equal power under our
system, and that he proposes neither to
abdicate executive power and initiative nor
to abandon policies . .. Mr. Truman put it
well: ‘Only by exercise of wisdom and
restraint and constant determination to place
the interest of our country above all other
interests, can we meet and solve the problems
ahead of us...” That is what Secretary
Byrnes and Bernard Baruch and other wise
Americans have been saying ever since the
end of the war. Today most people sense
the real peril of further. dissipating our
strength in internal division. They expect no
less of their President and their Congress.”

The New York Times: “There is in the
field of foreign policy what’ the President
calls ‘a well-charted course’ to follow. There
is no similarly well-charied course in the
field of domestic policy, because there has
been no similar bipartisan agreement, and it
is here that the strains and stresses of the
next two years of divided authority will be
most severe; but if these problems are to be

solved successful i

basis of the fair and “B approach
which the President outlined as the policy
which he will follow.”

Baltimore Sun: “The best we can hope
for is some amelioration of the grosser
maneuvers of partisanship . .. Under the
circumstances, partisan maneuvering (in
domestic affairs) will almost necessarily be
the main resource of the leaders of both
sides. When partisan advantage is the
objective, the welfare of the country suffers.
Let us not, therefore, expect too much from
the graceful statements now filling the news
columns and reserve our praise for those
who in deed as well as word put the general
welfare first.”

International Understanding

Richard Hollander, writing in the Wash-
ington News, commented on the address
which General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Army
Chief of Staff, delivered before the New
York Herald Tribune Forum. Mr. Hollander
said: “General Eisenhower made this signifi-
cant statement. *. . . And even the develop-
ment of international understanding is not
a direct responsibility of the Army, yet the
effect of progress in this direction is so
profound upon our security position that the
Army views with intense satisfaction every
effort by individuals and private and public
organizations in our country to disseminate
truth, to combat falsehood and promote
international confidence based upon knowl-
edgeitc

“Gen. Eisenhower was among the first .. .
to understand the palpable military ad-
vantages of quickly setting up information
media among the populations directly in the
rear of the combat armies. The organization
that fulfilled these jobs for General Eisen-
hower during the war is still functioning in
Germany as the Information Control Division
under the command of Brig. Gen. Robert A.

--- Page 26 ---
McClure. Its successors in other continental
countries are the various United States In-
formation Offices which are part of the
American embassies and legations, and come
under Assistant Secretary of State Benton.
(It has been announced) that USIS would be
permitted to resume activities in Yugoslavia.
Actually, what USIS had done was to make
available to the Yugoslav people the texts
of the American diplomatic notes relative to
the shooting down of the American fliers.
That is exactly the kind of thing Gen. Eisen-
hower was talking about.”

Trusteeship Proposal

The recent US proposal for a strategic
trusteeship under the United Nations for
former Japanese-mandated islands in the
Pacific was met by divided editorial com-
ment in US newspapers. Some editors saw
the move as being in line with the UN
Charter and manifesting US faith in the
United Nations while others deplored what
they believed would set a bad example and
hinder the United Nations in setting up an
effective trusteeship system in the more
populous and important areas of the world.

Under the US proposal the former
Japanese-mandated islands, wrested from
the Japanese during war by the United
States which still’ controls them, would be
deemed “strategic areas” and thus put under
administrative control of the United States
with exclusive military rights concerning
them.

The New York Times maintained “there
can be little doubt that the overwhelming
majority of American people, irrespective of
party, will stand behind (the proposal) as
representing both the maximum concession
to international authority possible at this
time and the minimum protection of Ameri-
can safety.” Noting that the US proposal
will arouse some cries of “imperialism.” The
Times said:

“That charge finds ample refutation in
the fact that the United States has not only
refrained from annexing an inch of territory
but has also granted of its own volition com-

23

plete independence to Philippines with their
16 million population, to which other de-
pendent peoples still aspire. What it now
asks is a trusteeship mandate over tiny
islands which have no other value except
that of strategic protection for United
States.

“Indeed, it is difficult to see what other
disposition of the islands could be made that
would be either adequate or firm. They
cannot be returned to either the Germans
or Japanese; and if they are to be placed
under any power, there is no power on earth
with better right to assume authority over
them than the United States, which was
attacked from them.”

The Chicago Daily News, on the other
hand, said: ‘In submitting the matter of (the
islands’) trusteeship to UN we are affirming
more faith in that organization than some
other world powers appear to possess.”

Socialism in Hesse

In a recent editorial on the proposed con-
stitution for Greater Hesse the New York
Herald Tribune declared: “For those who
are inclined to view the present world
struggle for the minds and allegiances of
men as a clear-cut issue between Russian
Communism on the one hand and the Amer-
ican brand of capitalist democracy on the
other, the constitution of Greater Hesse will
give reason for second thoughts. Hesse is in
the American Zone. On the theory that an
occupied zone will take on the color of the
army which occupies it, Hesse should have
produced something resembling the American
economic and political pattern. Hesse wrote
the nationalization of specific industries into
her: organic law. General Clay approved the
article on the condition that it be submitted
separately to the Hessian people. Thus, the
American occupation does not appear to have
been sufficient to arrest the trend toward
socialism, which is manifesting itself nearly
everywhere in Europe. It constitutes a chal-
lenging departure from the accepted Ameri-
can way which must be met constructively.”

--- Page 27 ---
THE THEATER (Continued from page 10)

it is a vigorous indictment of fascism, espe-
cially the Nazi variety, and its leftist philos-
ophy is voiced by members of an American
Jewish family. It was received with a great
deal of applause when first produced in the
American Zone. More than that, it has been
selected to be produced at the Soviet-
sponsored Reinhardts Deutsches Theater,
one of the largest in Berlin, for the current
season and with an all-star cast.

The performance of Family Portrait by
Coffee and Cowen at the Deutsches Theater
in Berlin has been the subject of vigorous dis-
cussions. The press reaction was largely neg-
ative, but the public received it favorably.
The difference in opinion is due to the subject
matter of the play. The German attitude to-
ward Christianity had come to differ with
that of Anglo-Saxon countries. To them,
Christianity had become more a philosophy,
making it possible for an SS man to divide
his time between Hitler and God. They do
not understand how in the United States
people may attend social centers sponsored
by the churches to play ping-pong, bowl and
eat chili suppers, thus mixing the church
with everyday living.

It is also difficult for Germans, for so
long isolated from the rest of the world,
to understand that the America of Henry
Ford, General Motors, Chesterfield cigaret-
tes and chewing gum should have play-
wrights like Saroyan and Wilder, known
for the delicacy and tenderness of their
thought and art. The idealism expressed
in US plays shows the Germans an America
quite different from that depicted to them
by Goebbels. It is believed that these US
plays with their standards and skilful des-
cription of American life will play an im-
portant part in the reorientation of the Ger-
man people.

OMGUS has granted more than 400 the-
atrical licenses in the US Zone of Germany
and the US Sector of Berlin; the German
theater has been re-established and Amer-
ican and other foreign plays have been in-

troduced successfully; and finally, a demo-:

24

cratic representation of the theater people
has been reorganized through theater unions
and similar organizations. However, there
is still a big job to be done to free the Ger-
man theater of the traditional domination
by the government. This domination, dating
back to the times when German princes
maintained theaters for the prestige and
pleasure of their courts, reached its climax
when Hitler gained his stranglehold on the
whole of German cultural life. It is the
task of MG to safeguard the freedom of the
German theater from domination by political
influences of the future, so that the theater
may become an instrument through which
the German people can be re-educated in the
democratic way of life.

Professors Dismissed

OMGB has ordered the Bavarian Minister
President to remove 33 members of the fac-
ulty of Munich University after a thorough
investigation had been made by the Edu-
cation Branch. The persons removed con-
stitute about 14 percent of the faculty of
230. They were dismissed because of former
affiliations with Nazi organizations or for
making nationalistic and militaristic speeches
and writings during and previous to the
Nazi regime. In the words contained in
the letter of dismissal, they lacked “positive
political, liberal, and moral qualities which
assist in the development of democracy in
Germany.”

Thirty-three laborers were also dismissed
from the university on the basis that either
they were actually engaged in supervisory
work or they had been downgraded to labor
jobs after having been previously ordered
dismissed by MG. In addition, 51 doctors
and doctors assistants were listed for dis-
missal for similar reasons.

Those persons dismissed shall lose all
rights of pension, cannot be reemployed in
a capacity above laborer by the education
ministry, and cannot be reemployed in any
capacity by the same institution.

--- Page 28 ---
KAISER WILHELM SOCIETY (Continued from page 5)

he expounded upon the crisis existing in
German science and the urgent need for in-
dependent research institutes, and described
in great detail how they should be organized
and administered. Harnack’s ideas were sup-
ported by the leading scientists of the day, in
particular, by Nobel Prize winner Emil
Fischer, noted for his work in organic chem-
istry; August von Wassermann, the bacteri-
ologist of ““Wassermann test” fame; and by
industrial leaders like Walter Rathenau, Leo-
pold Koppel, and the von Mendelsohn broth-
ers, as well as by the Kaiser himself.

Certainly no single individual was more
instrumental than Harnack in transforming
a vision into the concrete scientific organiza-
tion that it became. With significant phras-
ing, he emphasized in his memorial that
“armed might and science are the two strong
pillars of Germany’s greatness,” and he
worked from his inauguration as the first
president of the society in 1911 until his
death in 1930 to place German scientific re-
search on at least an even footing with that
of other nations.

FAMED AS THEOLOGIAN

Born in Estonia, the son of a professor of
theology, Harnack followed his father’s
career and achieved fame as a theologian,
professor of church history at the University
of Berlin and director of the Royal Academy.
But he had the remarkable capacity to under-
stand scientific problems and to feel at what
points a science was capable of further devel-
opment. In spite of his 19 years of arduous
work as president of the society, he also
remained faithful to the study of religion by
continuing to write prolifically.

The Kaiser Wilhelm Society survived
World War I with its subsequent inflation
and world-wide depression and the number
of institutions, each concerned with specializ-
ed problems in. physical-chemical-technical,
biological-medical, or historical sciences grew
from the seven established at the outbreak of
the first war to 30 at the time of Harnack’s

25

death. The Society was unique in three as-
pects. In the first place, under Harnack’s
leadership the Society received support from
many different sources so as not to be
dominated by any one group: the German
Reich; state and municipal governments, in
particular Prussia and the city of Berlin;
industry; members of the Society and other
interested individuals; and even from the
Rockefeller Foundation.

EXPANDED TO 35 INSTITUTES

Secondly, it was an underlying and un-
deviating principle of the society from the
outset, that its affiliated: institutes must con-
tinually seek out those new fields of inquiry
that cannot be primarily introduced into uni-
versities. Rather than compete with the uni-
versities, the institutes must cooperate with
them by stimulating and supplementing their
work. If sufficient progress was made in a
new field so as to warrant its being exploited
by industry or included in a university cur-
riculum, the institute must either close its
doors or look for greener pastures. From
the original three institutes for chemistry,
biology, and physical chemistry, the society
steadily expanded until at the outbreak of
World War II, it encompassed 35 institutes.
There were, in addition to the three already
mentioned, institutes for metallurgy, mete-
orology, physiology, psychiatry, biophysics,
biochemistry, craniology, entomology, orni-
thology, microbiology, anthropology, human
heredity and eugenics, cytology, agriculture
and animal husbandry, aerodynamics, and
even for German history, art and culture, and
international law. Of these 35 institutes,
two were located in Austria, two in Italy,
one in Switzerland, and one in Brazil. And
plans were being made in 1939 to expand
still further.

Third, it was realized that the value of a
research institute is not measured by the size
or beauty of the buildings or. the quantity or
excellence of its equipment, but rather by
the caliber of the men and women who work

--- Page 29 ---
/

in it. In the words of Harnack: “The Kaiser
Wilhelm Society must not build institutes
and then seek for the right man, but must
first find an eminent scholar and then build
an institute for him.” The importance of
these words is evidenced by the fact that
during the society’s existence more than
fifteen Nobel Prize winners were actively as-
sociatéd with it. Included in this number
were the physicists von ‘Laue, Planck, and
Einstein; the chemists Haber, Butenandt, and
Hahn; and Meyerhof, Warburg, and Spe-
mann in the field of medicine.

In addition, the institutes of the society
offered opportunities to scholars who did not
want to be burdened with classroom duties.
Although the majority of the new associates
had already taken their doctorates, to a limit-
ed extent the institutes also enabled candi-
dates for the degree to take advanced courses
before embarking upon a practical or aca-
demic teaching career.

CONCENTRATED IN BERLIN

Not only did the scientists associated with
the institutes give lectures or carry on re-
search in other parts of the world, but many
foreign scholars came to work in the “Dah-
lem Institutes,” as the institutes for physics,
chemistry, biology, physical chemistry, bio-
chemistry, cytology, anthropology, entomol-
ogy and silicate research were popularly
called. Almost half of the institutes in Ger-
many. were located in Berlin, nine in the
Dahlem district alone.

These foreign guests were housed in Har-
nack House, situated in the heart of the Dah-
lem institutes and dedicated in May 1929 on
the occasion of Harnack’s seventy-eighth
birthday. This clubhouse offered to both
German and foreign savants the opportunity
to live and work together in an atmosphere
conducive to scientific research. Of the 242
guests living in Harnack House during 1932,
115. were foreigners. Of this number the
United States topped the list with 33 while
Great Britain came next with thirteen. The
remainder represented 16 other foreign
countries, principally European. During the

26

same year, more than 200 lectures, colloquia
and other scientific events were held.

From the time the Nazis seized power in
1933, the ideals of the Kaiser Wilhelm So-
ciety began to deteriorate. The change was
slow at first. Some of the institutes, partic-
ularly those carrying on researches in: the
practical sciences, were placed on a war-
time footing to help carry out the Four-Year
Plan, destined to make Germany independent
of the outside world for raw materials. For
example, experiments leading to the large-
scale production of synthetic gasoline, rubber
and silk were conducted in the laboratories.

DECLINE IN MEMBERSHIP

The most significant changes, however,
were those involving personnel. The initial
membership of 150 in 1911 grew steadily to
reach peak strength of 902 in 1931, but from
1931 to 1935 it decreased to 656, losing 93
members between 1933 and 1934 alone. These
figures indicate the effect of the new regime
on scientific research. What Germany lost
during the period of the Nazi regime the rest
of the world gained. American universities
were especially enriched by the acquisition
of former Kaiser Wilhelm Society scientists.
Nobel Prize winners Franck and Debye went
to Chicago and Cornell respectively, while
Princeton got the physicist Ladenburg, Min-
nesota the chemist Freundlich, and California
the biologist Goldschmidt.

INVENTION OF MUSTARD GAS

During the four years of World War I the
number of institutes more than doubled,
growing from seven in 1914 to fifteen in
1918. But with all available men needed at
the front they all suffered from the loss of
personnel. Besides, the waging of war made
it necessary for most institutes to change the
whole tenor of their work. This was especially
true of the Institute for Physical Chemis-
try, which was transformed 100 percent for
chemical warfare purposes. Under the di-
rection of Professor Fritz Haber, whose meth-
od for the synthetic production of nitrates
delayed the surrender of Germany, mustard

--- Page 30 ---
gas was invented, one of the most terrible
poison gases used during the war. Gasmasks
for the use of German troops were designed
in the same laboratories under the direction
of Nobel Prize winner Willstaeter. At the
end of the war the Interallied Control Com-
mission dissolved the institutes’ military
activities.

In a parallel manner, World War II also
found the institutes geared for total war.
One of the most important discoveries of the
twentieth century was made when Professor
Otto Hahn succeeded in splitting the uranium
atom in 1939 at the Institute for Chemistry
in Dahlem. This discovery laid the foun-
dation for the subsequent invention of the
atom bomb. Professor Hahn was not awarded
the Nobel Prize..for. his. work until 1945,
since he was forbidden to accept it under
Nazi law. Now, seven years after his great
discovery, he is expected to go to Stockholm
to receive it.

SITUATION AT PRESENT

Little or nothing now remains of the“Dah-
lem Institutes.” With a few exceptions, those
buildings not severely damaged in air-raids
were requisitioned by Military Government.
Harnack ‘House is now an officers’ club, the
Biology Institute houses the Finance Divi-
sion, and the former Institute for Anthropolo-
gy is the present Armed Forces building. The
Institutes for Physics and Cytology were
recently taken over by Berlin Command,
OMGUS.

Many of the eminent scientists of the so-
ciety are in other parts of Germany. Such
men as the biologists Kuhn and Hartmann
and the famous biochemist Butenandt are
today in the French Zone, since four of the
institutes had been moved to that area in
1943 for security reasons. The three great-
est physicists of the Society, Nobel Prize
winners Hahn, von Laue, and Heisenberg,
who formerly worked in the French Zone,
have gone to Goettingen in the British Zone.

In dissolving the Kaiser Wilhelm Society,
the Allied Coordinating Committee agreed
to permit scientific activities in the separate

27

institutes, provided such activities do not
violate Allied legislation or the orders of the
Zone Commanders concerned. After months
of discussions, it was decided that it would
be a much wiser course to allow the insti-
tutes to function under strict observation and
control than to drive the scientists under-
ground into small and obscure laboratories.

OPPORTUNITY FOR FUTURE

In spite of this attitude on the part of the
occupying powers toward scientific research,
there still remains a serious obstacle to be
overcome, the lack of funds and equipment
with which to carry on. There are men and
women with the proper attitude toward re-
search who are ready and willing to continue
their work toward peaceful objectives. When
the efforts of the small group of scientists
still living in Berlin materialized in the re-
opening of the famous “Dahlem Scientific
Colloquia,” the Deputy Military Governor
addressed a letter to Professor Havemann,
administrative director of the Kaiser Wil-
helm Institutes in the American Sector of
Berlin, in which he said that the American
Military Government was gratified to see the
beginnings of a new research and teaching
activity which can contribute much to the
regrowth of peaceful industry in Germany.

Swiss Aid German Youth’

An agreement whereby undernourished
children of the US Zone will be able to -
spend a three-month period in private homes
in Switzerland has been reached between
the Swiss Red Cross and OMGUS. :

Children selected must be between the
ages of 4 and 10 years and be nutritionally
deficient. Children with communicable dis-
eases will not be acceptable.

The German Landjugendamt of the state
in which the children reside will be respon-
sible for selection and assembling of the
children. Special Swiss teams will arrive
in Germany and take charge of the groups
about three weeks before the actual move-
ment of the children.

--- Page 31 ---
LAND REFORM (Continued trom page 13)

of crop is always higher on the smaller peas-
ant farms.

German labor has few possiblities for em-
ployment and German agriculture is short of
equipment. It is not likely that this situation
will improve quickly. German agriculture
must intensify with all of the facilities avail-
able. For the present generation of people,
this means the intensive application of labor
to land. It is to promote this goal that the
present Land Settlement Law has been
adopted.

The land that will be made available for
small setilement cannot be estimated ac-
curately at this time. The interpretation
given to the law by the different Laender in
issuing the executive orders, the exceptions
which they may permit, and the extent to
which they may or may not draw upon
publicly owned lands can permit great va-
riations in the number of acres of land made
available for settlement.

LAND OWNERSHIP CENSUS CITED

Some indication of the extent of large
private land holdings which may be drawn
upon is provided by the 1937 German land
ownership census. Land owned in units of
100 hectares and over by persons, as distinct
from corporate entities, totaled slightly less
than five percent of all land in use in the
US Zone. The same figure for the Land of
Mecklenburg in North Germany was 29 per-
cent and for East Prussia 23 percent. In West
Germany persons owning land in units of 100
hectares or more made up 15 percent of the
total ownership area in the Province Han-
nover, and 14 percent in Schleswig Holstein.
However, these figures do not include the lands
owned by family foundations and trusts some
of which are large holdings, lands held by
other private corporations, public bodies, and
churches. All of these classes of land can be
drawn upon under the Land Settlement Law.

The extent to which South Germany suc-
ceeds in applying this new law depends upon
the energy and initiative of the German ad-

ministrative authorities in the US Zone. They
have adopted a law which can become a
long step in the right direction. It is up to
the Germans to implement it. Preparation of
executive orders placing the law into effect
are well underway. Military Government
will watch the execution of these orders with
great interest. In many important respects
this is the first real test of the strength of
the present German administrations to carry
out an important program of economic
change and reform and, their success or
failure in this regard will have implications
beyond the fields of agriculture and food
production.

Trustees for Farben Units

OMGUS has requested the Laenderrat to
appoint suitable trustees for the separate
and independent economic units into which
the former I. G. Farben Aktiengesellschaft
is to be broken. Allied Control Council Law
No. 9 had placed all Farben properties in
the hands of a quadripartite committee,
which, in turn, authorized the appointment
of trustees to operate individual units of
the vast industry.

Thus the decartelization of Germany’s
largest industrial empire will be accomplish-
ed in two steps. First, German trustees,
approved by MG, will operate the units in
behalf of the Farben Control Officer (US)
to demonstrate the practicality of the opera-
tions of the separate and independent units.
Second, the property will be disposed of
under regulations now being formulated.
Detailed instructions will be issued to each
trustee by the Control Officer as part of the
trust agreement.

The 30 Farben units in the US Zone pres-
ently earmarked for trusteeship comprise
only a part of the industry, there being 125
plants in all in the US Zone and 850 in the
whole of Germany. In December 1944, the
books of the firm evaluated the entire prop-
erty at RM 7.5 billion.