--- Page 2 ---
* SR Ai: eran ine

Eide
°
=
z
=
<
ai
4
bai
3
=
<

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
OPE MARBURG

LAUTERBACH
OBER A
LAHNKREIS
é FRIEDBERG
QBERTAUNUS|
SS HANAU

ESBADEN
OFFENBACH

ROTEN BURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBER BISCH -
OFSHEIM

MOSBACH

BRUCHSAW

BACKNANG

PEORZHEIM

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

0
WEERLY

INFORMATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Control of Fraternization .

Vehicle Accidents

Project Reunion .

Unaccompanied Baggage of Air Passengers .

Transfer of Enemy Personnel Exploitation Section .

International Mail Service

US Military Personnel Sick in Hospital .

Liaison Representatives from US Churches

ACA Directive No 44, “Limitation of Characteristics of Fishing Craft

to the Peace Economy of Germany”

Utilization of Military Government Trainees .

Distribution Procedures

AG 014.13 GAP-AG
5 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 537.5 GAP-AGO
16 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 230 RYT-AGO
16 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 524 GDS-AGO
21 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 322 GBI-AGO
22 Nov 1946, USFET

Circular No. 170
23 Nov 1946, USFET

Circular No. 171
26 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 000.3 (IA)
29 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 560 (NA)
30 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 230.437 (PO)
2 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 315 (AG)

2 Dec 1946, OMGUS

Increase in Fines and General Levies on Passenger Traffic (Railways)

Increase of Wages in the Coal Mining Industry

Coordination with Constabulary or Tactical Military Units with Refer-
ence to Re-establishment of Military Government Controls

Reporting of Crimes, Offenses and Serious Incidents by Military
Government Liaison and Security Offices .

AG 531 (TD)
5 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 463.3 (MD)
6 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 322 (CA)
6 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 000.5 (CO)
6 Dec 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be-obtained by writing directly to. the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Byers

ANHALTER BAHNHOF — The picture on this
week's cover shows a group of German civilians
going into. Anhalter Bahnhof, one of Berlin's
largest railroad terminals. For ofher pictures
of the badly-damaged rail center see pages
13, 14 and 15.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

The material for The Housing Problem was
furnished by the Housing Section, Wages and
Labor Standards Branch, Manpower Division,
OMGUS, and by “'Heute,’’ MG’s official German
language magazine.

Armed Service Directorate was prepared
by the Armed Forces Division, OMGUS, | It is
a summary of the achievements of the three
service directorates of the Allied Control
Authority which next month will be combined
into one body.

General Clay's speech on page 12 was
transcribed from the broadcast recording by
the ICD-operated radio station in the US Sector,
Berlin. An official text had not reached Berlin
by the time the WIB went fo press. Material
concerning the bizonal economic merger agree-
ment came from an official announcement dis-
tributed by the Office of the Director of Public
Relations, OMGUS.

Frederick C. Dirks, Chief of the Statistical
Research Unit, Finance Division, OMGUS, pre-
pared the article, Financial Intelligence. Be-
fore joining OMGUS, Mr. Dirks served as an
economist for the Federal Reserve Board,

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

The Housing Problem

Financial Intelligence

Combined Services Directorate
Bizonal Economic Merger Defined
Anhalter Bahnhof

GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

10
12
13

ile.
24
23

--- Page 7 ---
he bleak and discouraging picture of the

housing situation, as Germany enters her
second winter of occupation, is slightly re-
lieved by a few elements of hope. Through
the repair of partially-destroyed dwellings,
through the use of barracks and empty in-
dustrial buildings, and through the conver-
sion of attics and unused spaces in buildings,
thousands of Germans can find shelter in
spite of the lack of building materials and

transport. Furthermore, a new method for
the disposal and use of rubble will go a
long way toward solving several of the here-
tofore insurmountable problems. By pro-
cessing the rubble on the site of the ruins
by the use of large mills, it can be cleared
away and a new and excellent building ma-
terial can be made on the spot by mixing the
pulverized rubble with concrete. Hence, two
major tasks can be accomplished without
depending on transportation facilities.

It is obvious that old and ordinary meth-
ods of construction for solving the cur-
rent housing problem are out of the question.
Coal is needed to manufacture brick and
cement, approximtaely 12.5 tons of it being
necessary for building one flat containing
three rooms and a kitchen — and a shoriage of
coal will exist for a long time to come. This

Rubble which lines this street in the
Sector of Berlin can now be utilized b
application of a newly-developed pro
cess. Signal Corps Phot

--- Page 8 ---
The above reconstruction scene in Mannheim is becoming increasingly
common as the US Zone acts to meet the crifical housing shortage.

lack of coal has a particularly ironic twist,
for one of the principal reasons for its scar-
city is the lack of adequate housing for the
miners in the Ruhr area. In other words,
until the miners get better homes (which re-
quires building materials, which in turn need
coal), there will not be enough coal produc-
ed, for the miners’ conditions of life are
too difficult for them to work vigorously.

METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION

In the rebuilding of dwellings, the old
clay construction, the plaster-concrete :cons-
truction, and other methods will have to be
revived to take the place of building houses
of stone, wood, concrete, steel, and iron.
New methods of construction, especially
those of quick construction, are being tried
out and developed. Pre-fabricated housing,
which Germany is ready to manufacture and
which is being considered as a solution to
the problem in other countries, cannot al-

leviate the German housing situation, for it
must remain an article for export, to be
used to finance imports even more essential
to Germany than housing.

The aforementioned plan for the utiliza-
tion of rubble is the outsanding technical so-
lution to the immediate problem. It has been
estimated that it would take thousands of
workers and thousands of trucks many years
just to remove the rubble from bombed-out
cities. It would take many more years to
transport new building materials to the scene
of construction for building. Large portions
of blasted walls as well as the fine, powder-
like rubble, comprising 30 to 40 percent
of the ruins, can be processed in a similar
manner and will become a new raw material
which can be considered as something
between natural pumice and foundry pumice.
In the opinion of experts, this is ‘a fine build-
ing material, which, made into building
blocks (‘Ziegelsplittbeton”), will not only

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 9 ---
offer resistance against pressure, but also has
a higher insulative character than the tradi-
tional brick wall. ;

The tremendous task which faces MG and
German officials falls into three parts. The
deadly statistics of rows of rubble is the
first. Although the casual visitor may travel
in a countryside apparently untouched by
war, the first city of any size will show the
remnants of destroyed buildings. ‘Wuerz-
burg in Bavaria is more than 70 percent
destroyed; Heilbronn in ‘Wuerttemberg-
Baden is more than 50 percent destroyed;
and in Greater Hesse, where key industrial
plants were more numerous, the extent of
damage is even greater.

POPULATION FACTOR

The second phase of the problem concerns
the factor of increased population. Accord-
ing to the May 1939 census, the German
population in what is now the US-occupied
area (including the US Sector of Berlin)
numbered 15,066,000 persons. At the end
of October 1946, the unofficial population
figure for the same regions was 17,667,000.
This increase hag been brought about by the
immigration of expellees from Eastern
Europe, who are now living with native Ger-
man families in crowded conditions, very
limited facilities, and no privacy. The best
index to the extent of over-crowding is the
average figure of the number of persons per
room, which figure ranges from 1.7 for the
entire Land of Greater Hesse to 3.8 persons
per room for the city of Kassel.

SITUATION IN RURAL AREAS

The figures for the larger cities do not
tell the entire story of over-crowding, for
they reflect conditions only in these popula-
tion centers, for the most part, which have
been closed off to further migrators. The
expellees continue to be channeled into the
country and small towns, and there the
conditions of excess population in a limited
space is~becoming increasingly pressing. An
added problem is one of lack of adequate
health facilities, water supply, and ‘houses
not constructed for the number of persons

now inhabiting them.

The third factor in the housing’ situation,
that of the building material scarcity, exists
all over Europe and in America, as-well as
in Germany. It must be clearly understood
by the German people that the overcrowding
they are now experiencing is an old story
to:many Russians, Yugoslavs, Poles, Greeks,
and English. In many of these. countries,
housing conditions are still far worse than
in the very recently overcrowded German
communities. In Germany: itself, however,
only statistics on the lack of building mate-
rials will indicate just how serious this prob-
lem is. In Wuerttemberg-Baden, in the last
quarter of 1946, in spite of a strenuous ef-
fort to boost the allocation of building; ma-
terial to meet requirements, only 29 percent
of the required cement was received, for ex-
ample, 42 percent of the plaster, 24 percent
of building plates, and 50 percent of heat-
ing stoves.

INTERDEPENDENCE OF MATERIALS

It must be remembered further that a
substantially lower figure of any one of
these critical items may possibly impede the
whole program far out of proportion to the
quantity of the article involved. One item
that is only 20 percent available may render
useless for the time being several materials
which are 100 percent available. A further
illustration of the scarcity of materials ap-
peared in a report from Nuremberg which
indicates that “with the present rate of
supply of building materials it will take 75
years for the reconstruction of all the damag-
ed buildings in that city.”

Military Government has attempted to
help the German officials in alleviating the
housing problem in two ways. In the first
place, the policy of carefully surveying all
new requests for requisitioning housing space
has been in operation for. several months. No
requisitions can be effected without MG ap-
proval. If the approval of MG is withheld,
the case must go before resources boards
functioning at local, Land, and: Zone levels.
In the second place, MG has embarked on
a program to derequisition housing space no

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 10 ---
Financial
ntelligence

Mew may make the world go round but
it can also facilitate devastating wars
by supporting a vicious and abusive war
machine. For, while the directing force in
the Nazi war economy was probably more
political than financial, the political leaders
were shrewd enough to realize that economic
policy and political affairs would run more
smoothly if their financial features were co-
ordinated. The uncovering and tracing
down of the financial aspects of German po-
litical and economic affairs has been the
major task of the Financial Intelligence and
Liaison Branch of the. Finance Division,
OMGUS, during the past 18 months. The
Branch has had a variety of jobs, with the
emphasis shifting from time to time as the
urgency of the work changed in relation to
the over-all MG policy.

INITIAL PHASE OF OPERATION

' During the first months of the occupation
the Financial Intelligence Branch concentrat-
ed ‘its efforts on tracking down a variety of
valuable properties which had been shifted
from place to place. Vast treasures of gold
and valuables, which the Wehrmacht had
removed from the vaults of the national
banks of Austria, Czechoslovakia, Belgium,
France, and other conquered countries, and
which had been located through interroga-
tions of leading Reichsbank officials, were
unearthed in salt mines, caves, and other ob-
scure places. The role played by the Reichs-
bank in the disposition of loot seized by the
SS from concentration camp victims was also
exposed.

Other discoveries have included the gold
and precious jewels turned over during 1944
to SS officials as ransom money for the lives
of Hungarian Jews in German concentration
camps. These payments effected the release
of some 1500 victims, the greater number
of whom were permitted to leave Germany.
The valuables, three to five million dollars
of which was coolly recorded as “current
accounts” on the books of the SS, are ex-
pected to be used for the rehabilitation and

--- Page 11 ---
resettlement of persecution victims in Europe
through the agency of the Intergovernmental
Committee on Refugees, organized to admin-
ister, for the benefit of refugees, all ‘“non-
monetary” valuables, currency, and securi-
ties of which victims of persecution had been
despoiled.

A search was also initiated for properties
transferred by Nazi leaders to neutral coun-
tries as a hedge against military defeat. This
search early uncovered a network of finan-
cial entanglements, and now a special branch
of the Finance Division, the External Assets
Branch, is investigating throughout the
world the entire German program for dis-
sipating and concealing valuable assets.

Simultaneous with these activities was the
job of checking on the identity and removal
of Nazis and their sympathizers from posi-
tions of power and influence in German fin-
ancial institutions. Because of the key role
of German finance in organizing the war
economy, and because of the special efforts
made by the Nazis to saturate the financial
institutions with persons sympathetic with
their program, the work of the Finance Di-
vision has been of particular importance in
the field of denazification. Preliminary work
in this field was started more than two years
ago by members of the Treasury Department
in Washington, who prepared a Civil Affairs
Guide for the War Department entitled
“Elimination of Nazis from the German Bank-
ing Structure.” This document advocated
removal of undesirable persons, by category,
from financial institutions.

DENAZIFICATION FUNCTION

The denazification program in finance was
carried out by finance officers in the field
under the supervision and guidance: of the
Field. Investigation Section. of the Branch,
established for this specific purpose. The
staff of this section traveled to all parts of
the US Zone to-assist in the practical applica-
tion of the directives: which it had an active
part in formulating at headquarters level,
Special. denazification teams in groups of
two or three were assigned to each major
detachment in the Zone and worked closely

for these denazi-’
ficatida: teams ‘wre: mraulated in April’ 1945
to assist Iptak MG, officers who found it dif~
fienlt to, ‘devote © adequate attention to the’
great. number" of, persons to:be screened, in
addition’*tp thei ‘athe administrative Tex
sponsil ts. . The: teams also’, _aided. in
clarifying ‘the intent of: directives "gssued at’
headquarters, and: in suggesting. ways to
implement them in the field.

NAZIS REMOVED FROM POSTS |

In July 1945 the Field Investigation Sec-
tion ‘and’ the Finance Officers in the field
were charged with making a final drive in
the denazifieation program on the basis of
existing directives. By the 8th of September
1945 an official report indicated that denazi-
fication in finanee was substantially com-
pleted. All employees of financial institutions
in the mandatory removal category had been
removed by March. Adverse recommendation
cases retained in finance were reduced from
535 on 31 December 1945 to 184 on 28 Feb-
ruary 1946. The large scale removal of
Nazis from the financial economy was ac-
complished without closing the banks, and
without seriously impairing tax collections
or other essential financial functions.

Data collected in the spring of 1946 il-
lustrates the extent to which financial in-
stitutions had been cleared. Out of 29,400
officials who had been screened in the 21
most important cities in the US Zone, about
9,260 were removed. Reports from the rural
sections of Germany show that removals took
place at approximately the same ratio. The
total number removed from, financial. posi-
tions in the Zono.is estimated at-143000.

In more recent’ tionths ihe denazification
activities of the Financial. Intelligence
Branch have been limited mainly to inter-
rogations and research concerning the “war
time ¥écords of leading finaticiers. This work
represents a continuation of the investiga-
tions which were begun in early 1945 and
which were undertaken to provide a basis
for policy recommendations with respect to
the future structure and functions of the

--- Page 12 ---
“Big Six” banks of Berlin. Thesé banks had
assets which exceeded those of all other 650
commercial banks in Germany combined.
Acting both as investment and commercial
bankers, they exercised a: controlling in-
fluence over virtually all large and medium-
sized concerns in Germany. od

By virtue of this position they were select-
ed by the Nazi government to play a, leading
role in financing the rearmament program,
and also in penetrating and exploiting the
resources of the occupied and conquered
countries in Europe. This included, for
example, the financing of the Kontinentale
Oel Company in Rumania which was
intended to be the basis of a German oil
monopoly in Europe, and of the Mines de
Bor in Yugoslavia, Europe’s greatest copper
producer.

COMPLICITY IN WAR GRIMES

The complicity of a number of the big
banks.in such war crimes as the abuse
of slave labor has also been established.
Representatives of the Deutsche and the
Dresdner Banks worked. closely with Eco-
nomics Ministry officials in the creation and
formulation, during 1938, of the, aryaniza-
tion program for the economic spoliation
of Jewry, first in Germany and later in the
occupied countries. In view of the activities
disclosed by these investigations, Military
Government has encouraged the adoption of
legislation by the three Laender to limit the
operation of individual banks and ‘their
branches to a single Land. |

The evidence uncovered in studies of
banking practices has also enabled Finan-
cial Intelligence Branch to assist the Office
of the Chief of Counsel at Nuremberg in the
preparation of evidente for the War Crimes
trials. An extensively documented study of
the misuse of occupation’ costs by German
authorities in conquered countries ‘in ‘viola-
tion of the Hague Convention was submittéd,
and ‘portions. were’ afterward’ incorporated
into the indictment and the prosecution brief.
Original documénts and interrogations: were
also: supplied ‘to OCC for use as exhibits,
including SS loot and ‘the: Reichsbank
findings ‘which figyred prominently in the

prosecution of Watler Funk, one-time: pres-
ident of the Reichsbank and Minister of
Economics. More recent findings of current
investigations“have been made available to:
OCC for the subsequent trials of bankers and
industrialists at Nuremberg.

‘The Branch has also acted as a clearing
house of information for possible. appoint-
ments:to. key German positions in zonal and
US-British “bizonal finance agencies. In ad-
dition the Branch has ‘represented the Finance
Division on the bizonak sub-committee for
denazification in the field of finance.

Another phase of the work of the Finan-
cial Intelligence Branch has been to inquire
into the effectiveness of administrative pro-
cedures for financial laws. For example, a
study of the application of MG Law 52,
which calls for blocking the control of
property, including bank accounts, owned by
Nazis and those removed from office by
denazification, indicated the need for improv-
ing German administrative channels and ‘for
giving more attention to investigation and
enforcement.

Increasing emphasis is: being: placed on
securing a more adequate picture of current
financial conditions in the US Zone. As MG
personnel is reduced it becomes more and
more important to secure field © reports,
statistics, and other intelligence, and to
organize and analyze it so as to gauge
financial conditions in the German economy.
Most of the statistics already are drawn from
German government and private sources, and
increasing reliance will be placed on German
sources as they develop the requisite tech-
nical staff and :information on financial con-
ditions.

New Tax Regulations

The Control Council has promulgated two
new laws covering taxes on tobacco, incomes,
corporations, and excess profits. Law No. 41
reduces the tobacco tax rate for several cate-
gories of tobacco products. “Law No. 42 pro-
vides for a 50-percent reduction ‘of income
taxes for certain: corporations, chiefly long-
term credit ‘institutions, ‘such as mortgage
banks and others. ,

--- Page 13 ---
he Combined Services Directorate of the

Allied Control Authority, approved by
Control Council Directive No. 34 on 3 Sep-
tember, will become operative next month.
At that time it will assume the functions and
responsibilities of the Military, Air, and
Naval directorates representing each of the
Four Occupying Powers. The United States
was the first of the occupying nations to
combine the Army and Air divisions with
the establishment of the Armed Forces Di-
vision in November 1945. The US element
then presented a plan for the consolidation
of the three quadripartite directorates in a
similar pattern. The approval of this plan
resulted in the new directorate, which will
enable the Four Powers to streamline de-
militarization policies.

In an examination of the past operations
and objectives of the three individual quad-
ripartite directorates and their four ele-
ments, the first to be considered is that of
the Military Directorate. The work of plan-
ning and forming policy for dissolution of
the Wehrmacht has been the assigned re-
sponsibility of the Demilitarization Branch
of the Armed Forces Division, OMGUS, and
of the Military Directorate of the Allied

COMBINED

SERVICES
DIRECTORATE

10

Control Authority. However, the Office of
the Naval Advisor, OMGUS, and the Avia-
tion Branch of the AFD made special studies
for the control of their German counterparts
— the German Navy and the German Air
Force. The work on disarmament, including
disposal of German war material and of
military installations, was allocated in a
similar way, the Military Directorate having
the responsibility for assembling the over-all
policy as developed jointly by studies of the
Military, Naval, and Air Directorates.

DISSOLUTION OF WEHRMACHT

The work of the Armed Forces Division
has already been fully covered. (See MG
Weekly Information Bulletin Nos. 63 and
64, 14 and 21 October respectively.) The
disbandment and dissolution of the Wehr-
macht in the US Zone is essentially complete.
All organizations, schools, and institutions
have been dissolved, funds and property have
been confiscated, and laws have been pub-
lished to prohibit the revival of any of its
elements. Moreover, all para-military or-
ganizations. such as the SS, the SA, the Hit-
ler Jugend, the NSKK (Nazi Motor Corps),
NSFK (Nazi Flying Corps) and others have

--- Page 14 ---
The US representatives on the Military Directorate of the Allied
Control Authority shown above af a quadripartite meeting.

been disbanded and dissolved.

The leaders of the military and para-
military organizations have been arrested and
will be subject to sanctions under denazifica-
tion laws. Although it is expected that the
provisions of Control Council Directive No.
38 will prevent the infiltration of militarists
into responsible positions, it is necessary to
maintain constant vigilance. Such organiza-
tions as schools, athletic clubs, fire services,
and police services lend themselves readily to
militaristic development and must be kept
under continous surveillance over a long
period to prevent the development of these
agencies along lines hostile to the occupation.

Although demilitarization in the US Zone
is essentially complete, there remain the long-
range objectives of reeducation and sur-
veillance. Insofar as demilitarization is in-
volved, these objectives become the respon-
sibility, at policy level, of the Combined
Services Directorate.

Demilitarization by the Military Direct-
orates of the other three nations has followed
similar lines. The clearance of all types of
military installations in Germany and the
disposal of German war material is progres-
sing satisfactorily. The reports as of 30 June
1946 show, for example, that in the British

Zone 340,489 tons of ammunition had been
discovered and that 123,216 tons had been
destroyed; 743,122 small arms were seized
and 566,222 destroyed or disposed of; and
1,362 single-engine military aircraft were
seized and all except one destroyed or dis-
posed of. The French found 8,000 machine
guns and small arms, and destroyed or dis-
posed of 7,500. The Soviet forces located
394,384 small arms, among thousands of
other weapons, and had destroyed or dispos-
ed of 380,647. They destroyed or disposed
of all 3,051 tanks and self-propelled guns,
and all of 5,960 military aircraft which they
captured.

DISARMAMENT PROGRESS

In the case of destruction of minefields,
the Soviets had completed this work 100 per-
cent, as compared with about 27 percent in
the British Zone, less than 10 percent in the
French Zone, and 80 percent in the US
Zone. In general, the disarmament of all
the zones is believed to be progressing satis-
factorily, and it is estimated that all German
war material will have been disposed of or
demilitarized by 1 July 1947.

The Tripartite’ Naval Commission (UK,
USSR, and US) provided for in the Potsdam

(Continued on page 25)

--- Page 15 ---
Bizonal Economic Merger Defined

Deputy Military Governor Explains Anglo - ~Ameri¢an’ Accord and
US Occupation Policy in Radio Broadcast to the German People

Speke over the “Voice of America”

radio program from New York Saturday

evening, 7 December, Lt. Gen. Lucius D.
Clay, Deputy Military Governor, described:
several major situations encountered in the
US-occupied areas of Germany, paying
special attention to the agreement signed
only four days earlier in: Washington | for
joint. Anglo-American accord on the economic
administration of the US: and British Zones
as a single area,

Addressed primarily to the German people
of the US areas, the speech was delivered in
English by the Deputy Military Governor in
teply to questions by a program interviewer:
A German translation was given immediately
following each paragraph. The speech was
broadcast by the’ ‘German-language radio
stations of the US areas of Germany. The
English text follows:

Bizonal Merger: This agreement for the
economic merger of. the British and US oc-
cupation zones in Germany should assist
materially in reviving industry and foreign
trade in both, zones. The British Zone of oc-
cupation is devoted primarily to. basic in-
dustry. All of Germany is dependent on its
output of coal and steel. The industry of the
US Zone is largely of the assembly type.
Hence the two zones complement each other,
and their economic unification will thus make
possible a better utilization of the resources
of both zones, not only to produce export
trade and to finance essential imports but
also to provide supplies and commodities
urgently needed in Germany.

Food: If the food which has been brought
into Germany to feed the civilian population
behind, the battle lines is included, the United
States’ has’ made approximately 1,000,000
tons of food available in Germany since July
1945. ‘ Neither the United States nor ‘the
British Zone raises sufficient food to support

by the end of December.

12

its ponies Therefore, large amounts of
food, particularly cereals, ‘must be imported
into both zones. Much of these cereals must
come’from: the United States. 140,000 tons
of cereals, wheat, flour, corn, and oats were
allocated to the British Zone from the United
States for the last-quarter of this year. It is
expectéds that atleast 85,000 tons. ofthis
amount will have arrived’in the British Zone
Also, 50,000. tons
of cereals have been loaned to the British
Zone from stocks on hand in the US Zone
which ‘have’ been’ provided by the United
States.

Supply: The principal cause for the food
difficulty in the American Zone arises from
the fact that the zone never has raised suf-
ficient food to support its population. This
population has increased by almost. 2,000,000
persons during the past year. While more
land is planted in crops than at any time in
the past, there are shortages of fertilizer and
farm equipment which make it most difficult
to get maximum production. But the present
ration of 1,550 calories for the normal con-
sumer is obviously an undesirable arrange-
ment, ‘since approximately one-third of the
ceréals to support this ration have to be im-
ported into the'zone. The ration level must
necessarily be fixed by world supply. The
world supply has not:sufficed for a higher
ration. -In fact, transportation difficulties
including trains into the ports in the United
States for shipment to Germany make it ex-
ceedingly difficult even to maintain this
ration. When world food supply and trans-
port conditions permit, it is essential: that
the US Zone of Gérmany, in cooperation
with the British Zone of. Germany, has
an export program which will provide funds
to provide the food essential to the | mainte-
nance of the German people.

International Business: The United States’
(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 16 ---
T” pictures on the following two pages
show activity at Anhalter Bahnhof, one
of Berlin’s largest rail centers. Located in
Kreuzberg, US Sector, Anhalter serves as
a supply railhead for the American Army
and as.a passenger and freight terminal for
German civilian use. In addition supplies for
the British and French occupation forces and
CARE and CRALOG relief parcels come
through the terminal’s freight station.

Each day eight trains leave Anhalter Bahn-
hof carrying an average of 8,000 persons to
‘Leipzig, Erfurt, Dresden, Helmstedt, and

Magdeburg. This traffic is relatively small
when compared to the 152 trains and 100,000
passengers which daily came through the
terminal before the war. During the war
Anhalter was the principal center for troop
trains going to the South and West.

Like all rail yards and stations in the
Berlin area, Anhalter was severely damaged
by Allied air attacks. The damage has now
been repaired to the point where traffic is
possible, but real reconstruction must wait
until essential materials which are now in
short supply become available. Photo by Byers

--- Page 17 ---
(Above) A view of the crowd which daily passes through the passenger station at Anhalter; (below lett) one
of the eight passenger trains which leave Anhalter each day for South and West Germany. Photos by Byers

--- Page 18 ---
(Below) Portion of the bahnhof showing the unrepaired damage caused by Allied

air attacks. Reconstruction awaits release of building materials. Photo by Byers

--- Page 19 ---
THE HOUSING PROBLEM (Continued from page 6)

longer considered essential for the occupa-
tional mission. As troops go home and organ-
izations become consolidated, more and more
installations are being returned to the Ger-
mans for housing and business use. In ad-
dition, the military authorities, recognizing the
needs of the German economy particularly
for this winter, have reduced the Military
allocation of building materials from 20 to
25 percent to 15 to 20 percent of the total
production of materials for the fourth
quarter of 1946.

Although MG has aided in solving the
housing problem, a solution rests primarily
with the German officials. Except in certain
areas where there are large military instal-
lations, the space which has been requisition-
ed by the US Army today is actually only
a minute fraction of the total space available.
It is the German housing officials’ job to
distribute the remaining and most substantial
part of the space to the German population
as. fairly and as equitably as possible.

In all too many instances, spot checks

US Zone Banking

The three Laender of the US Zone have
adopted laws reorganizing the banking
system throughout the Zone, thus producing
a major step in the fulfilment of the US ob-
jective of breaking up undue concentrations
of economic power in Germany. This re-
organization of the banking structure re-
moves the means through which large Ger-
man banking systems have in the past dom-
inated financial operations throughout Ger-
many. As a result of the misuse of this con-
‘céntrated power by the “Big Six” banks
during the Nazi days, many of the former
directors and officials are being held for pos-
sible prosecution as war criminals.

These banking laws, which were adopted
simultaneously by the three Laender, contain
uniform provisions to become effective 1Jan-
uary 1947.: To take over the ‘functions: prée-
viously performed by the Reichsbanks in

16

have disclosed that: too many — well-to-do
homies are not accepting their share of the
expellees and other homeless people.. Too
many cases of favoritism ‘or wilful neglect
to make full utilization of existing space, if
it happens to exist in the best houses of the
community, have been uncovered. In this
serious period of difficult living it is the
responsibility of the German authorities to
make every. effort to carry through a vigor-
ous program of fair allocation of housing
space.

As with so many other problems, the hous-
ing difficulties cannot hope to be solved be-
fore Germany is a functioning economic unit
once again. Even at that. time,’ vast housing
programs cannot be considered as practicable
while so many: other. European countries
which were ravaged by Germany. remain
in urgent need of assistance; but with eco-
nomic unification will come renewed economic
activity, and progress will be ,made toward
the alleviation of some of the more pressing
cases of housing discomfort and inadequacy.

System Revised

these Laender, each Land will now have a
Land Control Bank. The stock of the new
banks will, at first, be held by the Land
Governments, but later, according to the new
laws, is to be pro-rated and sold to the va-

‘rious banks operating within each Land.

Under the new laws, branch banks cannot
operate in the Zone except within the Land
wherein the head office is located. Nor will
the new Land. Central Banks’ have branches
outside the respective Land in which each is
located. ‘This will mean - that: the branches
of the large German chains, such as the
Deutsche Bank, the Dresdner Bank, and the
Commerzbank, which in practice ‘have been
separated from their head offices in other
parts of Germany since the Occupation, ‘now
will be ‘completely set apart from these head
offices.::. Ownership. relations between the
branches themselves can’ éxist , ‘only. within a
single Land

--- Page 20 ---
Steps Taken by MG to Control
Disease during Winter Months

No major epidemics are expected in the
US Zone during the coming winter, accord-
ing to the Public Health and Welfare
Branch, IA&C Division, OMGUS. Although
the average German will enter the winter
months with a lower resistance to disease
than he had a year ago, medical facilities and
supplies for the control of disease have
increased to such a extent as to partially
offset this danger.

The chief worry of public health officials
throughout the Zone is the possibility of an
epidemic of influenza. According to the
influenza cycle for Germany, an epidemic of
this disease is considered to be possible this
winter. Other factors pointing to the danger
are the crowded living conditions and poor
sanitary facilities of the German people.

The measures necessary for the control of
such an outbreak have already been set up
and are functioning smoothly, officials said.
These measures include influenza “listening
posts,” which are laboratories manned by
American-trained German technicians who
keep constant watch for any outbreak of
respiratory diseases. Any increase in
epidemic influenza, which can be recognized
only through special laboratory tests, im-
mediately would be reported throughout the
Zone and a system of controls put into effect.

In the event of a local outbreak of
epidemic influenza the threatened community
would be isolated and German-produced
influenza vaccine rushed to the spot. An im-
mediate information campaign would be
begun warning the people against the danger
of the disease and giving instructions for
combating it.

Special stocks of US Army hospital sup-
plies have been set aside for emergency use
to supplement German supplies and facilities
in case of an emergency. German supplies of
sulfanimides are considered adequate for

17

combating the effects of the epidemic

which are sometimes more dangerous than
the disease itself. All German posts for the
detection and reporting of the disease are in
close touch and coordination with US Army
posts of the same type.

The problem of typhus in the Zone has
decreased considerably since a year ago.
Public health officials credit this drop to the
over-all use of DDT insecticide throughout
the Zone with emphasis placed on the treat-
ment of incoming refugees and expellees
from Eastern Europe. However, local or
sporadic outbreaks of the disease are still
considered a possibility and necessary ar-
rangements for combating the disease have
been made throughout the Zone.

Diphtheria continues at a rate lower than
last year and no epidemic is expected
inasmuch as about half of the Zone’s children
have been inoculated against it. Precau-
tionary measures to guard against the spread
of any local outbreak have been set up in
close cooperation with Army medical of-
ficials.

Art Transactions

MG Law No 52 with respect to transfer
of works of art or cultural material has been
revised to ease the prohibition against trans-
actions in all cultural materials and “objects
of art of value or importance, regardless of
ownership.” It vests authority in the
Ministers President to license art dealers in
the US Zone, with a proviso for report and
inventory of works of art or cultural
material of value or importance.

The revised law permits transactions in
art objects and requires objects valued at
more than RM 10,000 to be reported, thus
legitimizing one of Germany’s important
peacetime industries. It facilitates the export
of low-priced paintings and other cultural
objects against dollar returns, helping in this
way to defray the cost of importing food. In
addition, the law is expected to give en-

--- Page 21 ---
couragement to indigenous art which has
been largely dormant in Germany since: the
incursion of National Socialism.

Economics Division officers at OMGUS
pointed out that US personnel who purchase
works of art which are not for purely per-
sonal use, will be violating the Trading’ with
the Enemy Act and Theater Regulations.
USFET Circular 140, dated 26 September
1945, applies in these dealings.

Eighteen Allied nations, including repre-
sentatives of governments in exile, announced
early in 1943 an “Inter-Allied Declaration
against Acts of Dispossession Committed in
Territories under Enemy Occupation or
Control.” In substance, these nations reserved
the ‘right to declare invalid transfers of
property in countries occupied or controlled
— directly or indirectly — by Germany.
The declaration was, in the first instance, a
formal reiteration of the historical, moral, and
legal principle that neither the person who
steals property nor the one who may later
come into possession honestly receives title.
It also put the Axis powers on notice that,
when the time for reckoning came, even ap-
parently legal transactions — such as Goe-
ring’s purchase of French art with stolen
francs — would be declared null and void.

In September, 1944, SHAEF promulgated
Law 52 which made certain property in Ger-
many subject to seizure and management by
the Military Government. Scope of the law
was broad. Not only did it cover property
owned or controlled — directly or indirectly
— by the German government, its political
subdivisions, and agencies, but it also ex-
tended to the property of organizations and
clubs dissolved by the Military Government,
to the property of governments and citizens
of any nation at war with the Allies, and, to
property of absentee owners, including
United Nations governments. and their
citizens.

Law 52 banned transactions in all cultural
materials and objects of value or importance,
regardless of ‘ownership. The ban: also
covered property owned or controlled by
religious, charitable, educational, .:cultural,
and scientific institutions. Everyone having

LIS

oF ‘oustody of property. covered by the SHAEF

‘law carried specific responsibilities such as
preservation, keeping of records, and safe-
keeping.

Xmas Aid in Greater Hesse

A campaign for Christmas aid to the‘ “250
neediest families” of Greater Hesse has been
organized by the Director of OMG Greater
Hesse. The result of a special report on liv-
ing conditions among the Hessians, the cam-
paign is asking for contributions of food,
clothing, and money from MG personnel and
dependents, from Germans, and from former
officers and civilians with OMG Greater
Hesse who have been redeployed.

Handling of DP’s

The US Immigration and Naturalization
Service “is doing its utmost to carry out the
humanitarian program of President Truman
facilitating the entry into the country and
the handling of displaced persons.”

This was asserted in a statement by the
Justice Department in Washington. Statis-
tics for the 15 months ending 1 September
show that of the 1,377 persons deported to
Europe for all causes, 1,368 were nationals
of Germany or Austria of whom 58 were
criminals.

Many thousand refugees were allowed to
-remain in United States as visitors, and were
given opportunity of obtaining visas as quota
immigrants in nearby countries so they could
re-enter the United States permanently.

Since 1941, the statement added, 23,000
persons availed themselves of this arrange-
ment, leaving only a small number unable
to obtain visas. Of those in this small
group, Immigration and Naturalization
Service has directed that deportation should
not be effected in cases of usunual merit, if
removal proceedings are based upon mere
technical violation of immigration laws, until
15 February in order that the incoming Con-
gress may have an opportunity to take
corrective legislative action if desired.

--- Page 22 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The Wiesbaden headquarters of the OMG
for Greater Hesse is now drawing its electric-
al power from its own basement.’ The in-
stallation of a generator relieved Wiesbaden’s
municipal electric system of furnishing more
than 30,000 KWs a month. This move is
in keeping with the current army policy to
conserve German electricity.

OMGUS has informed the Laenderrat, that
British and US Military Governments have
approved establishment of a German bizonal
joint committee on civil service whose func-
tions will include determination of salary
schedules for German officials and employees
of bizonal agencies. MG requested the
Laenderrat to appoint to this committee one
voting representative and one alternate from
each Land. :

In the past three months, arrivals of food
imports from US have been at the rate of
about 50,000 metric tons per month, in com-
parison with an estimated average import
requirement of 92,000 metric tons per month.

DP DENTION CENTER

A detention center for short-term DP: pris-
- oners has been established in the US Sector
of Berlin by Berlin Command. ' DP’s senten-
ced by MG Courts to less than one year will
be held in this center. Those sentenced to
more than one year and not eligible for forc-
ed repatriation will, in accordance with
Theater policy, be transferred to the long-
term institution set up by MG at Furth,
Bavaria. . : oo,
Pursuant to MG policy to restore adminis-
trative authority to German, Land govern-
ments, instructions have been sent to field
Legal offices to the effect that appointment
of the Land Minister of Justice and all other
personnel in German administration of justice
no longer requires prior MG approval.
‘ As of 1 December, inter-Laender shipments
of potatoes were about 47 percent of the
amount planned. Sufficient food potatoes
from the Soviet Zone and Bavaria to fill US
commitments for Berlin through winter and

19

spring have been delivered to or earmarked
for Berlin.

An increase in meat ration in the US Zone
for the holiday ration period has been made
possible by higher slaughter rates in the
Zone. An additional 100 grams per person
per week has been authorized for non-self-
suppliers over one year of age for the 96th
ration period. Also, an extra holiday sugar
ration of 250 grams per person (age group

"1-20 in the Zone has been authorized.

COAL FOR SPACE. HEATING

Only 15 percent of all Ruhr miners have
voted for working Sunday shifts. British
officials have stated that, as a result, prob-
ably no more coal for space heating will be,
provided by the Ruhr to the US:Zone. In
US Zone cities over 20,000 population, fire-
wood supplies are estimated at 30-40 per-
cent of winter requirements, with completion
of movements in sight by 1 January.

_.The 11,211 US Army vehicles in use since
4 November to transport harvest crops and
fuel wood for the.German economy in the
US Zone have hauled a total of approxi-
mately 49,755 metric tons. The total farm-
to-market’ crop collection program is far
enough behind so that request for extension
beyond 15 December is under consideration.

. COST OF LIVING INDEX

A new cost of living index computed ‘on a
uniform basis in the four occupation zones,
and submitted by the Laenderrat. for US
Zone shows an increase of 15 percent in the
cost of living in the 12 months ending
30 September. Removal of agricultural
subsidies, new taxes, and increased com-
munications and transportation rates are
listed as the reasons for the increase.

A new export exhibition, including a dis-
play of industrial products manufactured in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, has opened at Stutt-
gart with seven times more floor space than
its predecessor which has -béen in operation
approximately 4 months.

--- Page 23 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our read-
ers. Official copies of the quoted circulars,
letters, and directives may be obtained by
writing to the originating headquarters.

‘Historical Correspondence

In an effort to compile complete data for
writing the over-all history of OMGUS,
offices are instructed to submit any histor-
ical material and documents, as set forth in
“Historical Correspondence and Documents,”
AG 314.7 (CO), dated 4 December 1946.

The directive states: Each office ‘will
submit for reference and use as source ma-
terial any files, classified or unclassified,
which are deemed of historical importance
before such materials are destroyed or other-
wise disposed of. Particular interest is ex-
pressed for original correspondence and
documents covering the planning stages of
functional offices and divisions.

Source materials should be addressed to
Chief, Historical Section, Control Office
OMGUS, APO 742, US Army.

Incident Reporting

Instructions for ‘Reporting of Crimes,
Offerises, and Serious Incidents by Military
Government Liaison and Security Offices”
are contained in MG directive AG 000.5 (CO)
dated’ 6 December 1946.

The directive states, “Military Govern-
ment Liaison and Security Offices will
report to the nearest Military Police and
Constabulary unit all crimes, offenses, and
serious incidents ‘of which they become
cognizant, as defined.in Paragraph 2, USFET
Circular 152, ‘Reporting of Crimes, Offen-
ses, and Serious Incidents,” dated.11 October
1946. Reports will be submitted by the
fastest means and be confirmed by written
report or TWX. within ‘twenty-four hours.
These written reports will follow the out-
line sprescribed by USFET Circular 152; a
copy of each report:.will be sent. to the

regimental or separate battalion commander
of any troops involved in such incidents.
Similar reports will be made to Land
Office Intelligence Officers.”

The directive further specifies that copies
of serious incident reports will no longer be
forwarded to OMGUS as a matter of routine,
but that any serious incidents requiring
special attention will be forwarded by the
Land Office of Military Government. A file of
all serious incident reports made will be kept
available for inspection, but incident charis
as previously required need no longer be
kept by Liaison and Security Offices.

Maintenance of Security

The objective of the occupation in preserv-
ing peace and order in the US Zone of
Germany are set forth in OMGUS directive
AG 322 (CA) “Coordination with Constab-
ulary .or Tactical Military Units with
Reference to Re-Establishment of Military
Government Controls” dated 6 December
1946. ; 7 (

The directive states: The preparation of
necessary plans for the re-establishment of
order and the maintenance of security. in
emergencies should be the responsibility . of
the units which will have to carry out such
plans in.case of need. It is already SOP for
Liaison and Security Detachments to prepare
and periodically test, in collaboration with
local Constabulary and troops, security plans
for their respective Laender- and Stadtkreise.
Such plans can and should .provide for the
contingency that full.Military Government
controls must be re-established locally.

iesanan Labor Law

Effective 1 January 1947 the German
labor law of 20 January 1943 entitled “The
Organization of National Labor” is repealed
together with all enactments concerning the
prosecution of the Jaw. This action is con-
tained in Control Council Law ‘No. 40,
approved on 30 November 1946.

--- Page 24 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Constitutional Referendum

The licensed press in Wuerttemberg-Baden
took a critical attitude in their editorial com-
ments on the Land’s recent constitutional
referendum and Landtag elections, according
to the weekly newspaper analysis by the
Office of the Director of Information Control,
OMGUS.

The Badische Neueste Nachrichten (Karls-
ruhe) commented on the fact that consider-
ably more persons voted for the political
parties than voted on the constitution. It
continued: “Of those entitled to vote, in
many cases 20 percent, 30 percent, even
50 percent have made no use of their right to
approve or to disapprove. Such lack of in-
terest is evidence of the political immaturity
of a large part of the voters . . . Undoubt-
edly the cause lies partly in the election
campaign during which the parties emphasiz-
ed too much their ideological differences and
neglected to hammer on the principles of the
constitutions.”

The Heilbronner Stimme found the large
number of non-valid votes on the constitution
surprising, but had this explanation: “Evi-
dently many voters did not understand that
they had to make another cross at the bottom
of the ballot. It, therefore, was a miscaleu-
lation to combine both votes on the same
ballot.”

The Mannheimer Morgen, in an analysis of
the vote, said, “To state it honestly, the result
of the referendum on thenew: Wuerttemberg-
Baden constitution is.no success. It may ap-
pear, superficially examined, as if — as in
Mannheim — 56 percent of our citizens voted
for the draft. But this percentage is an illu-
sion for it is calculated on the basis of the
number voting and not on the number eli-
gible to vote. Of the eligible number of the
tetal- population only 41 percent voted for
the constitutional draft. . . The only consola-
tion in this matter is the fact that this con-

stitution cannot be
nity, but will, we hope
by an over-all German constitution.”

In Bavaria, the Nuernberger Nachrichten
(Nuremberg), in criticizing the Bavarian con-
stitution draft, compared it with the United
States Constitution. The editorial said the
Bavarian document, like the Weimar con-
stitution, “never really became alive and
therefore came to such a pitiful end. Why?
: Because they are too thorough and
go too little into fundamentals.” The editor-
ial added, “The American Constitution con-
sists of a handful of impressive lines which
have gone into the flesh and blood of every
American.”

Coal Strike

The coal strike in the United States shared
top news place in many of the German
newspapers in the US Zone and was the topic
of several pointed editorials.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) said,
“When the miners (strike) . . . the whole
American transport system in short order be-
comes paralyzed . . . The consequence is that
the food deliveries to Europe are slowed down
or stopped, and the danger of famine in Ger-
many is increased . . . If we, as non-partic-
ipants but fellow sufferers, should form an
opinion, we must not overlook that formal
right is on the side of the miners. The last
responsibility for the American and Euro-
pean economic crisis lies with the govern-
ment and most of all the pit owners. It is
they who risked this fight for power between
capital and labor; appearances may be
against the miners, but the question of the
real economic responsibility must be decided
on another level.”

In discussing the international implications
of the strike, the Wieshadener Kurier said,
“Tt is perhaps not our affair to examine ‘the
American coal strike. But, after all, we are

--- Page 25 ---
in any case affected:adversely.‘Are all partic-

political responsibility of the United States
-for“the* maintenance -of ‘ peace ~in: the -world
éails for economic reSponsibility?:.... - It is
not enough to: meet the economic responsi-
bility. by supporting free trade and recon-
struction by means of loans. ,The conditions
of distress and difficulties resulting from
American strikes bring about suffering. . This
should :induce all participants to consider,
aside from personal welfare, not only nation-
al but also international welfare.”

Bizonal: Merger
In editorials on the bizonal merger of the
British and American Zones, two Anglo-
American licensed’ newspapers in Berlin ex-
pressed favorable.opinions of the fusion,
while two Soviet. aoe newspapers cited
reservations.

' The US-licensed Tagesspiegel was of the
opinion that the fusion of the two western
zones will have a greater importance: than
is now attributed to it, for the merger will
also have effects on the international situation.

“Before the. agreement. was -signed,” de-
clared’ the paper, “America and England
made. ‘the greatest efforts to get the other
Allies to join this agreement. From. now
on . the initiative will’ lie with Russia
and "Franee.” a

Telegraf, British-licensed newspaper, found
that the merger has political aspects’ of
highest importance ‘for’ the development in
Germany, while at the same time it will con-
tribute to stabilize conditions in western Eu-
rope. Stating that the Germans must show
their will to make good, the paper added that
the Allies have the task to provide the pre-
suppositions for peaceful reconstruction.

“Thé United States and Great Britain have
realized that the merger of these two zones
is-only piece! work if the Soviet Union and
France ‘do ‘not join this union,” noted‘ the
newspaper, observing that the reason. they
have not done so is because of the rigid. ad-

geet

ipants in‘ the USA .aware — “government,
management, and: labor unions — that’ the

” Union © “adinaaida” reparations” froin” Geriiiati

current production, whereas England and the
United ‘States desiré that.current productjon
is used first for the payment of food and
raw material imports. .

“Turning to France, ‘the paper observed
that the French demand the immediate eco-
nomic consolidation of the Saar‘ to France
and the internationalization of the Ruhr be-
fore they ‘give their agreement. ,

Observing that Secretary Byrnes and For-
eign Minister Bevin are willing to continue
trying. to get the French and Soviets in on
the’ merger, the paper, said. there are: signs
that the Soviets have become more ready for
such negotiations, though there will be:great
difficulties until the economic frontiers: with
the eastern zone are also cancelled. Ending
on‘ a note 6f:hope, the paper observed that in
spite of all ‘difficulties the western powers
aré détermined to speed up the realization of
the economic unity of Germany.

Berliner Zeitung, Soviet licensed paper,
observed that the agreement is of importance
also for the occupation forces because it’ is
expected to reduce occupation costs. The
paper continued that one expects favorable
consequences for the Germans by the econom-
ic merger of the two zones.’ One must wel-
come; it if the merger does come up to the
demands of. the people, admitted the paper,
adding the reservation that: the fusion does
not realize the economic unity of Germany:

Der Morgen, Liberal Democratic organ of
the Soviet Sector, observed that “undoubtedly
this means a step ‘forward,” on the way to
economic. revival, yet'one should not exag-
gerate the consequences. Citing the favorable
consequences which can come from the mer-
ger — suchas the shipment of food from
Bavaria to the Ruhr. in exchange for in-
dustrial products — the paper pointed out that
on the other hand ‘this “centralizing” of eco-
ndmic forces should ‘not lead to. the: isolation
of other parts of the country, meaning’ not
only _Berlin..and the east zone :but' also: the
French. occupied part of Germany: ':

--- Page 26 ---
Bizonal Agreement Viewed as
First Step to Economic Unity

The recent agreement between the United
States and Britain for economic unification
of the British and American Occupation
Zones in Germany was regarded by US press
and radio as a much needed first step toward
relieving the victor nations of the cost of
indefinitely supporting the German economy.
Comment made the point that the British-
American move was in accord with the Pots-
dam Agreement calling for economic unifica-
tion of Germany and expressed the hope that
economic unification can be extended to the
French and Russian Zones.

The New York Times regarded the agree-
ment as a move “to put an end to the
anomalous situation which compels the United
States and Great Britain to pay what
amounts to reverse reparations to a poten-
tially prosperous Germany in order to keep
the Germans under their rule from starving
to death . . . Anglo-American agreement is
the first constructive step taken to remedy
the situation now prevailing in Germany.”

“.. . This start at economic coordination
comes late in postwar Europe’s second
winter. General William H. Draper, Chief
of Economics, US Occupation Forces,
says that physical deterioration from slow
starvation has begun in Germany. All the
damage cannot be repaired, but lots of lost
time can be made up.”

Radio commentator Joseph C. Harsch said:
“Our Bipartisan foreign policy produced one
of its most constructive results in the firm
agreement between our government and the
British to merge our two zones of occupation
in Germany ... If we and the British can
make our combined zones an international
asset instead of an international liability
then perhaps the French and Russians will
see their way to joining .. . If all could
approach the task together and not in com-
petition, Germany could be among us.”

Elmer Daivs: Q
beginning toward making a
supporting. Not in their interest but in ours.
Not merely for reasons of humanity but to
prevent them from becoming a national slum
of disease, malnutrition, and frustration that
would make them a danger to their neighbors
once again. It looks like a good gamble. It
will require a greater initial investment than
the present arrangement, but it seems likely
to cost us less both in money and in trouble
in the long run.”

Radio commentator David Penn: “Im-
portant as this new agreement is, (British
and Americans) regard it only as the first
step toward achieving the economic unity of
Germany as a whole as envisioned and
agreed upon in the Potsdam Proiocol. Both
governments are ready and anxious at any
time to enter into discussions with either or
both of other occupying powers to extend
those newly constituted arrangements to
their zones of occupation.”

The New York Sun: “The sooner Ger-
many ceases to be an economic vacuum in
center of Europe, the betier it will be not
only for that continent but for the world as
a whole.”

Most Difficult Problem

According to an editorial in The New York
Times the most difficult problem in Germany
today is that of reeducation. “Though Allied
Military Government officials do the best
they can, the job (of redirecting the German
mind) can never be done by outsiders,” the
Times point out. “It must be done by the
Germans themselves.

“There are, fortunately, Germans who can
do the work. A German of this kind is Prof.
Fritz Ernst of Heidelberg, who makes a con-
tribution in this intellectual grouping in a
new German magazine, ‘Die Wandlung,’
meaning ‘The Transformation.’ Professor
Ernst concludes that what Germany needs

--- Page 27 ---
‘most. of all is contact with, the outside wolld.
” Germans “‘must-learn what’ ig going on in
.* otlier lands, what-other poeples aré doing
and thinking, “Fortunately, after their long
isvlation;: most Germans today suffer from a
kind of: intéliectual claustrophobia and are as
hungry for news from the outside world as
they are for bread. Therein lies the best
chance of Germany’s educators.”

Thanksgiving Day Editorials

US newspapers made Thanksgiving Day
the occasion for a solemn stocktaking of. the
domestic - situation and world progress
toward peace and prosperity. They stressed
the need for all men to dedicate themselves to
greater efforts. toward common aspirations.

Noting the difficulties encountered in
present-day national economy as highlighted
by the coal strike and in the world striving
for peace, they drew a parallel to the hard-
ships and privations experienced by the
Pilgrims, who observed the first Thanks-
giving Day in 1621 by giving thanks to
divine providence for a bountiful harvest.
Now, as then, the need is for close brother-
hood among men, they declared.

While frankly stating the problems, the
editorials emphasized the very real progress
made by the United Nations during the past
year. Typical-comments follow:

Chicago Sun: “We give thanks for the
United Nations. The clash of national aspira-
tions, the poison of fear and suspicion, the
intricacies of the peace settlement occupy
our thoughts. But over all these transient
anxieties towers the great fact that a world
entity has been called into being, by the
common consent of the world’s millions, to
represent and serve the people’s deep long-
ing for peace. As yet this entity is only the
faintest . foreshadowing of a world - sov-
ereignty upon which lasting peace depends.
But it exists. By functioning it-can develop.
By reconciling national wills it can gradually
fuse an. international will; by association, it
can Bee to federation, and ultimately to
union.’

Washington Star: “Bumanity 4 is faced with
problems. which cannot. .be-solved without

24

cooperation. Governments. of great states as

well as those of the small must learn to work
together for the common benefit of mankind
everywhere. A similar observation applies
with regard to all classes and conditions of
human beings within the several communities

. It seems obvious that there never can be
justice and freedom, fellowship and peace
in the world at large until individuals
develop within themselves a desire for those
blessings more compelling than any other
wish . ... Not every problem which today
cries for attention can be solyed instantly.
But. progress is feasible in most of them,
given only the faithful and unfaltering wil-
lingness of people to work with and for and
not against each other.”

St. Louis Star-Times: “It is naive to think
that there is any quick legal formula for
labor peace, or for bringing stability, to an
economy cut loose in a gale, or for overcom-
ing the prejudices that still set race against
race and creed against creed, or for allaying
the deep suspicion which divides East from
West. But perhaps the realization of our
difficulties is in itself reassuring. The
knowledge that mighty efforts are required
may help us to make them. The knowledge
that men must find new and better ways-of
working together may help them more
quickly to find those ways.”

Raleigh News Observer: “The mere fact
that people are this time aware of the
obstacles to enduring peace gives fresh hope
that oe obstacles will finally be over-
come.”

Pittsburgh Post Gazette: “If we have been
spared much of the sorrow and privations of
other peoples, it is not that.we are wiser,
better, or in any sense more worthy. It is
simply that God opened up to the world a
new land rich in resources and unequaled in
opportunity. Lest we who -have inherited
these blessings dissipate them in an insensate
scramble for wealth and.-power, we might
well emulate the Pilgrims... Their Thanks-
giving.was a thing of the spirit, not an ersatz
something staled by custom. They: worked
for what they. got. and they did not count
their blessings lightly.”

--- Page 28 ---
COMBINED SERVICES DIRECTORATE (Continued from page 11)

Agreement, has accomplished the disarma-
ment of the German Nayy and the disposal
of the vessels of the Kriegsmarine. The Com-
mission divided 1,713 vessels among the
three nations by December 1945, and since
then has handled the allocation of 375 naval
harbor servicing craft, floating docks, and
other equipment. The US received 671 of
the vessels, including the cruiser Prinz Eugen,
which sailed ta Bikini Atoll for the atomic
bomb test. The Commission agreed to destroy
certain other damaged or incomplete vessels,
and in fulfillment the US has destroyed 19
surface vessels, 19 submarines, and 210 sub-
marine sections. Considering the German
merchant marine a war potential, the Tri-
partite Merchant Marine Commission divided
its 492 vessels among the three nations.
However, 200,000 dead-weight tons of small
freighters and tankers were reserved for the
peace-time economy of Germany.

The Navy advised the Army on the dis-
armament.of shore establishments and coast
defenses, and also turned over to Army PW
enclosures the personnel of the Kriegsmarine.
The German Minesweeping Administration,
operating under Allied Control, is . now
sweeping the mine-infested waters of North-
ern Europe, using minesweepers and trawl-
ers on loan from the Allies.

WORK OF NAVAL DIRECTORATE

The Naval Advisor, as the US member of
the Naval Directorate, is responsible for sur-
veillance over disarmament and demobiliza-
tion in order to prevent the resurgence of
German naval war potential. The problems
involving the characteristics of ships per-
mitted for German use were decided in ACA
directives. In addition, the Naval Directorate
arranged for the re-establishment of the Ger-
man Hydrographic Institute, at Hamburg,
under a board of directors responsible to the
Directorate. Various naval studies directed
toward preventing a revival of war potential
were forwarded to the other directorates.
These studies included such subjects as limit-
ing the manufacture of Diesel engines in

Germany, prevention of the rebuilding of
future German naval installations, the meas-
ures to be taken against the reorganization
of the Kriegsmarine as well as against certain
German scientists and technicians, the ships
and docks to be retained by Germany for
peace-time use, and the restoration of Ger-
man ports.

ELIMINATING AIR WAR POTENTIAL

The third and final portion of the task of
demilitarizing the German armed forces con-
sisted of eliminating German air war poten-
tial. This has been accomplished by the per-
sonnel of the Aviation. Branch, as the US
delegation in the Air Directorate, through
the preparation of studies, recommendations,
and by consultations with other directorates
sharing the responsibility. These involved
problems of potentially dangerous aviation
personnel, the disarmament and control of
factories and research institutes, the preven-
tion of passive defense characteristics in the
construction of industrial and scientific build-
ings, a uniform policy for the destruction of
German air force installations, and the pro-
hibition of German aviation activities. The
Military Directorate was consulted in the air
disarmament and the destruction or disposi-
tion of aircraft, air fields, and weapons.

The US element of the Air Directorate has
worked consistently toward the goal of free
air transit over Germany for Allied and neu-
tral aviation, and to develop favorable con-
ditions for the advancement of civil aviation.
The Air Directorate agreed to establish three
corridors for free flight over the Soviet Zone
to link Berlin with Frankfurt a. M., Ham-
burg, and Buckeburg. These have helped to
support the supply of OMGUS and US troops
in Berlin, and have made air communications
possible.

For the purpose of promoting safety in
flight, a committee on Flying Safety for the
Greater Berlin area was organized. Regula-
tions approved by the Four Powers cover the
establishment of the Berlin Control Zone;
Airdrome Traffic Zones, and special and

--- Page 29 ---
standard air traffic rules. The Berlin Air
Safety Center, located in the ACA Building
and operated jointly by the Four Powers as
the air traffic control center, ensures unl-
formity in application of flight rules and
control. Navigation facilities are coordinated
and are being improved; in November a
radio range at Belzig, in the Soviet Zone,
was added to improve navigational accuracy
on the Berlin-Frankfurt corridor.

The Committee on Meteorology of the Air
Directorate formed the policy for the revival
of a German meteorological service in the
four zones. A basic plan was approved for
the zonal meteorological organizations, and
nearly all of the required installations have
been set up. Germany’s strategic position
makes her a necessary unit in world mete-
orology — hence the importance of its proper
re-establishment. The chief of the Mete-
orology Section of the Armed Forces Div-
ision, in addition to his position as US dele-
gate on the quadripartite committee, is re-
sponsible for supervision of the US Zone’s
German meteorological organization.

ORGANIZED IN NOVEMBER 1944

A survey of the work of the service direct-
orates and their US elements shows that
their activities pre-date the establishment of
OMGUS. The US Group Control Council for
Germany organized the armed services di-
visions at Bushey Park, London, under the
plan agreed upon by the European Advisory
Commission in November 1944. The divisions
were Army (Ground), Naval, and Air. Re-
search was begun in anticipation of the prim-
ary task of disarmament and demobilization.

The divisions moved to the continent in
March 1945, and their teams entered Ger-
many to obtain and assemble necessary in-
formation regarding the final stages of or-
ganization and disposition of all the German
armed forces and para-military organizations.
This information, which was the basis for
the plans for demilitarization and elimination
of the war potential of Germany, was obtain-
ed interrogating key Germans and from cap-
tured German records.

20

After the Potsdam Agreement of July 1945,
the service directorates were instructed by
the Allied Coordinating Committee to make
studies and recommendations on the policy
for carrying out the disarmament provisions
of the agreement. The provisions give as a
stated purpose the “complete disarmament
and demilitarization of Germany and the
elimination or control of all German industry
that could be used for military production.”

PROBLEM” FACED BY ALLIES

The Four Powers faced the problem of de-
militarizing probably the most militaristic
nation in history. At the end of the war Ger-
many possessed an army of some eleven mil-
lion men, reinforced by a large but undeter-
mined number of Volkssturm, and directed
by a high command and general staff. In
addition to the armed forces, Germany pos-
sessed a vast network of airfields, fortifica-
tions, training institutions, and war factories.

US policy for demilitarization, as confirm-
ed in the Potsdam Agreement, required that
all military and para-military organizations,
including the General Staff, Officers Corps,
the Reserve Corps, and military academies
which might serve to keep alive the military
tradition in Germany be disbanded and dis-
solved; that all such individuals of the armed
forces and other organizations that might
endanger the occupation should be seized and
held; that all arms, ammunition, and imple-
ments of war be seized and the production
thereof stopped; and that all installations
such as airfields, military posts, and bases
that contribute to the war potential of Ger-
many be rendered ineffective.

US Military Government published the
necessary laws for demilitarization of the US
Zone as soon as German territory: had been
occupied. The US then sought, through quad-
ripartite negotiation, to ensure that the laws
promulgated in the US Zone become uniform
throughout Germany. In general, it has been
successful in securing agreement on these
laws, and the quadripartite legislation on de-
militarization follows very closely that ori-
ginally instituted in the US Zone.

--- Page 30 ---
BIZONAL ECONOMIC MERGER (Continued from page 12)

economic policy towards Germany has not
led to the procurement of any special ad-
vances for American business at the expense
of other powers. In point of fact, our econ-
omic policy is directed to equality of treat-
ment to all nations.

Patents: The United States, Great Britain,
France, and the Netherlands entered into an
agreement on July 27, 1946 which provides
for the use, without royalty by the nationals
of all governments that are parties to the
agreement, of all former wholly-German-
owned patents issued by them which: have
been sequestered and which have been ter-
minated or dedicated to the public. In order
to become binding, seven of the nations
that participated in the discussions must sign
the agreement and it is anticipated that the
required number of additional nations will
sign within the period now prescribed, name-
ly December 31, 1946, or on extension of
it. Any other government, Allied or neutral,
may join in the accord by acceptance of its
terms by January 1, 1947. In Germany, the
United States has microfilmed pending patent
applications of German nationals and intends
to make the information available to the
other occupying powers and to approximately
25 other governments. If a bibliography is
published which describes the information
contained in these pending applications, the
information will thereupon be placed at the
disposal of the nationals of any country wil-
ling to subscribe to the bibliography, includ-
ing United States citizens. To date, the Sov-
iet Government has made the largest num-
ber of requests for these publications.

Democracy: ‘ It has been the United States
policy in Germany to rebuild democracy
from the bottom up. For this reason our
first elections were held at the village level.
Those elections were followed by city and
county elections. Recently the democratic
constitutions for the three States which have
been established in the American Zone were
ratified in state-wide elections. These’ consti-
tutions were submitted by Constitutional As-

27

semblies elected by the German people. State
legislatures have already been elected under
these constitutions and henceforth Military
Government will intervene in the administra-
tion of German affairs only to the extent
required to accomplish basic objectives. It is
our belief that democracy can take root in
Germany only through constant application
of democratic principles in the years ahead.

Future: The major obstacles to further
democratic progress in Germany are difficult
to define. Certainly a lack of economic op-
portunity, an inadequate food ration, and in-
sufficient consumer goods do not contribute
in the increasing interest of the individual in
general: Democracy can thrive only when
the individual feels some responsibility for
his own government. Lack of educational
facilities, insufficient newspapers, and limit-
ed radio facilities tend to prevent the free
and full circulation of information essential
to the education and growth of democratic
faith. These difficulties must be overcome.
However, if they are overcome by the efforts
of the German people operating within a
democratic framework of government, democ-
racy should gain a firm foothold in the
process. Hence an economic revival in Ger-
many, a reeducation of the German people to
a better knowledge of world affairs, and the
growth of democracy must necessarily go
hand in hand. The success of one depends
on the success of the others.

* * *

BIZONAL ECONOMIC AGREEMENT

The joint Anglo-American agreement pro-
viding for the “full economic integration” of
the US and British Zones of Germany makes
the two governments “equal partners in the
economic administration of the two zones as
a single area.” It was signed in Washington
3 December by Secretary of State James
F. Byrnes for the United States and Foreign
Secretary Ernest Bevin for the United
Kingdom. :

The agreement, which becomes effective
1 January 1947, was described by the two

--- Page 31 ---
Secretaries of State as “a first step towards
the economic unification of Germany as a
whole” which they hope “will lead to discus-
sions with the other occupying powers for
the extension of these or similar arrange-
ments to the other zones of occupation.”

The official statement announcing the sign-
ing of the agreement continued:

“The agreement contemplates an economic
program designed to make the area self-
sustaining in three years. This program will
not only result in decreasing the costs of oc-
cupation for the area but will also make pos-
sible the gradual restoration of a healthy
non-aggressive German economy which will
contribute materially to the economic sta-
bility of Europe.”

GERMAN RESPONSIBILITY

Pointing out that the Military Governors
of the two zones have been preparing for the
bizonal arrangements for the past few
months, the statement said, “These arrange-
ments have for their object the transfer of
executive responsibility in economic matters
to German executive committees and their
administrations operating for the combined
economic area. It is intended that in most
spheres executive responsibility will be as-
sumed by 1 January 1947 and as quickly as
possible thereafter over the entire field of
economic activity.”

German bizonal executive committees have
already been established for economics at
Minden, for food and agriculture at Stutt-
gart, for transportation at Bielefeld, for com-
munications at Stuttgart, and for finance at
Frankfurt a/M. German chiefs named to
head these committees are Dr. Rudolph
Mueller of the economics committee, Dr. Her-
mann Dietrich of food and agriculture, and
Dr. Wilhelm Mattes of finance.

The statement continued:

“In anticipation of the announcement of
the fusion, a common ration scale was estab-
lished for both zones from the commence-
ment of the 94th rationing period beginning
last 14 October, and based upon a normal
consumer scale of 1,550 calories per day.
Supplementary ration cards have been issued

to certain categories of workers, the most
privileged class, the underground miner, re-
ceiving 4,000 calories in both zones.

“The German Executive Committee for
Economics has drawn up a program for im-
ports and exports which is receiving careful
attention from both Military Governments.
In the field of trade and commerce, a bipar-
tite foreign trade section is soon to be set
up to finalize commercial contracts with for-
eign countries. The resulting foreign ex-
change will be held for the account of the
US/British Military Governors for use in
paying for imports under the terms of the
agreement,

“The pooling of resources, both indigenous
and imported . . . will result in the US Zone
obtaining vital products from the British
Zone, including coal and electric power, gas,
iron and steel, machinery, coal tar and coke,
buna rubber, basic slag, superphosphates,
synthetic fatty acids, iron pyrites, petroleum
products, plywood, and seed potatoes.

“The British Zone will receive from the
US Zone such products as pit props, iron ore,
automobile spare parts, food potatoes, electric-
al equipment, precision instruments, machin-
ery and spare paris, textiles, and chemicals.

“Tt is intended that the members of the
German Bizonal executive committees shall
be the Land ministers from both zones re-
sponsible for the particular functions with
which the relevant committees are to deal.”

Land Labor Courts»

A questionaire dealing with the establish-
ment and functioning of Land Labor Courts
has been submitted to the German Labor Min-
istry in each Land for compilation. Issued
by the Control Council Committee on Labor
Law, the questionaire is being processed
through MG Manpower. Officers to obtain in-
formation for the use of the committee. Com-
pleted forms will be returned to the ACC by
20 December or as near that date as possible.
The questionaire covers number, status, and
personnel of Labor Courts in each Land, as
well as a summary of types of cases tried
and findings, through 1 December.