--- Page 2 ---
GERMANY LOOKS AT AMERICA

--- Page 3 ---
FR~NKENBERG FRITZLAR

HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

MARBURG

BIEDEN~
OPF

i) FRIEDBERG
wy RRENTAUNS
ESBADEN Reena

OFFENBACH

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBER BISCH —
OFSHEIM.
MOSBACH

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

American Red Cross — Travel and Billeting Priorities

Tours and Services of the American Express Com-
pany, Inc

Packaging of Household Goods for Movement within
the Theater and to the United States

Payment of Per Diem for Temporary Duty
Control Council Law No. 43

Gasoline Ration Allocations for the Month of Febru-
ary 1947 :

US Army Facilities and Accommodations in the European
Theater .

Reduction in Telephone Facilities .

AG 230.42 GDS-AGO
10 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 531 SSP-AGO
10 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 524.2 ENG-AGO
11 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 245 GAP-AGP-B
21 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 010.6 (ED)
24 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 462.7 GDS-AGO
24 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 620 GAP-AGO
26 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 311.3 (AG)
31 Jan 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official, Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

GERMANY LOOKS AT AMERICA — The
picture on this week's cover shows a German
girl looking at the latest American fashions
in @ popular American magazine provided by
the US Information Center in Frankfurt. The
operation of the information center is a func-
tion of MG's Information Control.

MG SERIES

Suggestions and questions on the current
series of articles on the functions and opera-
tions of Military Government in Germany are
welcomed. Any reader connected with the US
Occupation Forces may offer suggestions to
clarify and. elaborate on parts of the published
articles. Specitic and constructive comments
are desired. Letters should be addressed to
the Weekly Intormation Bulletin, Control Office,
OMGUS, APO 742, US Army.

This series, which started in last week's
issue of the WIB, is to be continued for five
weeks. After that, it is hoped that the series
will comprise a complete, informative picture
of Military Government as it is currently opera-
ting. “and will be of sufficient value to be com-
bined into a single volume for general reading
and reference. It is to this end that the sug-
gestions and questions of MG personnel are
invited.

The individual articles are prepared by rank-
ing personnel of the divisions and offices
directly concerned. The articles scheduled for
next week's issue concern the Infernal Affairs
and Communications Division and its branches:
Communications, Public Health, Public Welfare,
Education and Religious Affairs. One other
branch, Public Safety, will be included with
the articles for the fourth week of fhe series.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
MILITARY GOVERNMENT SERIES

Information Control
Manpower Division
Finance Division

Frankfurt Bank

Legal Division
GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

10
14
21
24

30
34
iS /

--- Page 7 ---
Pr: publications, radio, films, theater,
music — all are among the sharpest tools .
to reach the German mind and convert it to
a more democratic way of thinking. To
reorient these informational services along
free lines was=the immediate aim of MG
when Germany was occupied. Since then,
responsibility gradually has been given to
politically cleared Germans, teaching them, to
appreciate and safeguard these institutions
as an expression of free thought.

Ever since the promulgation of Military
Law 191, which outlawed all Nazi-operated
or dominated news media in Germany,: Ger-
man informational services have been starting
operations again either directly under the
Office of Information Control, OMGUS, or
under its supervisory control and guidance.

Their revival has been rapid. For example,
on 1 January 1946 there were 23 licensed
German-language newspapers in US-occupied
areas of Germany, while on 31 December
1946, the number had jumped to 44 such
newspapers. Additionally, DENA: (Deutsche
Nachrichten Agentur), formerly DANA
(Deutsche Allgemeine Nachrichten Agentur),
the German news service, was licensed on
26 October by MG and turned over to the
then 81 publisher-licensees of 41 newspapers
as a German-owned, cooperatively-operated
news agency. Subsequent licensees become
members of the association under equal con-
ditions. fA

When DENA was licensed, American press
control officers shifted from a policy of pre-

--- Page 8 ---
iransmission scrutiny to post-transmission
examination of the news file. Licensing gave
additional responsibility to DENA’s editorial
management, with the US press control staff
maintaining a measure of watchfulness to
determine that MG policies and directives
were carried out,

Along with the expanding German-licensed
press, OMGUS Press Control Branch estab-
lished second, or competing, newspapers in
such principal cities as Berlin, Kassel, Frank-
furt, Munich, and Stuttgart. This procedure—
limited only by the critical shortage of news-
print, supplies, and trained personnel —
followed MG’s policy of building a free,
democratic, and non-monopolistic press.

Greater freedom for the licensed press was
provided by Policy Instruction No. 3, which
gave newspapers the right to use the services
of foreign news and publishing agencies and
to quote from foreign radio stations. Infor-
mation from these sources may be used with
certain restrictions: That the news does not
contain Nazi or militaristic propaganda or
any material tending to incite riot or dis-
order, or malicious criticism of Military Gov-
ernment and the Allied powers. The press
also has been given increased editorial re-
sponsibility by the Allied Control Authority
Directive No. 40.

NEW SOURCES OF NEWS

Other MG news sources are opening up.
Recently German press and radio correspond-
ents for the first time were permitted access
to US press centers and other army installa-
tions for news material. Early in 1947,
authorized German correspondents were given
permission to attend press conferences of the
Deputy Military Governor,

To coordinate all their work and discuss
problems as they arise, German publishers’
associations in the Laender — which act as
effective instruments for the strengthening
and improvement of newspapers, DENA, and
the publishers’ relations with Military and

Three German correspondents of US licensed
newspapers covering the Nuremberg trials read
the latest news developments from a teleprinter
supplied by Information Control. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 9 ---
journalism bore fruit in the excellent cover-
age of the Nuremberg war crimes trials be-
fore the International Military Tribunal.
Accounts of the historic proceedings were
climaxed by the first newspaper extras since
the beginning of the occupation.

Perhaps the highest praise for any US
Zone newspaper has been won by “Die
Neue Zeitung,” the official MG publication.
When the newspaper celebrated its first
anniversary on 18 November, General Eisen-
hower gave it high praise saying that the
paper is fulfilling its mission of reorienting
the German people along. democratic. lines.
Not the least of the publication’s functions
is its example to other licensed newspapers
of smart editing and reporting. Published in
the Munich plant which once produced the
infamous Goebbels journal, “Voelkische Be-
obachter,” the new MG publication has in-
stituted an American-type editorial page and

(Left) Two. German civilian employees of ‘Die
Neue Zeitung” monitor foreign news broadcasts;
(below) German compositors setting up the pages
of the “Frankturter Rundschau.” Signal Corps Photos

German governments — took the first steps
to form a joint zonal committee. The pub-
lishers likewise actively participated in draft-
ing proposed press and licensing laws. In
Bavaria, publishers and newsmen hope to
raise newspaper standards with a recently-
established school of journalism where prac-
tical writing courses are given.

To obtain a free flow of news among the
four zones, the Allies reached an understand-
ing on a quadripartite level for the exchange
of news agency files. Subsequently, under-
standing agreement was established on a tri-
zonal basis for the exchange of newspapers
and correspondents with the French and
British Military Governments. The British
agreement was implemented, but implementa-
tion of the French accord awaits settlement
of the Saar question.

Constant training of German reporters and
editors in the American method of factual

--- Page 10 ---
modern methods of factual reporting.

Like the licensed newspapers, however,
“Die Neue Zeitung” was hit by the news-
print shortage and cut its circulation from
1,500,000 to 1,200,000. Similarly, publishers
of displaced persons newspapers and ga-
zettes were allocated less newsprint. But in
spite of curtailment of electric power, the
critical coal shoriage, and a 10 percent
forced reduction in newsprint, the US Zone
papers have maintained relatively good press
schedules and met the newsprint cuts through
a choice of reducing circulation or cutting
the number of pages per issue.

These papers and “Die Neue Zeitung”
have a combined circulation exceeding
5,000,000, a distribution which could easily
be many hundreds of thousands more if the
demand for news among German readers
was met. Deprived by the Nazis for 12 years
of reading anything except what National

”

Socialism dictated, the Germans are eager
for news of all kinds.

This thirst for information also is reflected
in the field of books and pamphlets. And as
the publications indusiry expands, MG
hopes to orient it away from Nazi ideology,
thus leading the German people to think and
act democratically. Under this program,
ACA Order No. 4, Confiscation of Nazi Liter-
ature, has been successfully executed, and
licensed publishers must see to it that the
works of only politically suitable authors
are printed. All books and magazines upon
publication are scrutinized by German em-
ployees under supervision of Land Publica-
tions Control officers, assisted by officers of
Intelligence Branch, ODIC.

Many projects have been completed.
Although book and magazine paper pro-
duction is short of requirement by some
3,000 tons (at least 50 percent) per quarter,

(Left) American personnel check the makeup of
“Die Neue Zeitung: (below) the staft.of the
US Information Center in Bamberg looks over some

newly-arrived American books. * Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 11 ---
this shortage has the effect of restricting
paper to high priority publications. Con-
tinuing efforts are being made to increase
the allocation of paper to Information Con-
trol, and donations of paper by nationals of
other countries are encouraged. But in spite
of this shortage, at the end of 1946, 1,941
books and pamphlets had been published and
255 periodicals were in distribution. There
were 286. licensed publishers and 9,168
registered book dealers, printers, and lending
libraries.

INTERZONAL EXCHANGE

As in the news field, some progress: has
been made in interzonal exchange of publica-
tions.. The British Zone exchanges material
freely with the US Zone, and: exchange
hasbeen agreed upon in principle with
the French Zone. <A. depository. library
(Deutsche Bibliothek) has been established at
Frankfurt to contain all German publications
in the Western Zones since the occupation.
The library is thus useful as an exhibit, of

publications for domestic and foreign buyers. .
The staff produces a current bibliography .

of the publications received and makes sys-
tematic reviews of publishers’ programs.

Publications Control Branch of ODIC has
specific re-education duties to perform, .and
in line with these are the continuing devel-
opment of US Information Centers, which
numbered 16 as 1946 ended. These centers,
modeled after the US information libraries
scattered throughout the world, are a valu-
able source of knowledge for German
scholars, scientists, students, researchers, and
the general. public. They have a total of
40,620 books to which new. titles are added
regularly,

To give German readers a wider field of
selection, translation rights to American
books have been sold to German publishers.
Additional American reading matter was
provided through US Treasury Department
licenses permitting importation and sale of
US magazines, including Newsweek, Time,
and Life. These-are sold in Germany for
blocked marks. Additional magazines, includ-

ing Omnibook and Reader’s Digest, are ex-
pected to make their appearance in the near
future.

To give Germans the full story of the
Nuremberg trials, many phases of the pro-
ceedings have been published, including
Justice Jackson’s three prosecution speeches
before the International Military Tribunal,
the court’s verdict, and several Nazi docu-
ments used as evidence by the Allied pros-
ecution. The Nuremberg documents, in
photostat or typewritten form, have been
placed in a depository at Nuremberg (later
to be moved to Heidelberg University) for
use by German scholars or historians.

Military Government reaches the German
people directly through another outlet similar
in. purpose to the official newspaper “Die
Neue Zeitung,” but wholly different in form.
This is the magazine “Heute” (Today)
published in Munich by the Publishing

_ Operations Branch, Information Control Di-

vision, Office of Military Government for
Bavaria. Fashioned somewhat after the
magazine Life, “Heute” presents a balanced
reading’ diet of American, world, and Ger-
man news and pictures. With a circulation
of 400,000 it has won wide favor for its
contents and objectivity.

Military Government has two other of-
ficial publications, the “Amerikanische Rund-
schau,” (American Review), with a circula-
tion. of 110,000, and “Neue Auslese,” (New
Digest), with a circulation of 250,000. This
latter magazine is a joint British-American
project.

MG-CONTROLLED RADIO

German citizens in’ US-occupied areas of
Germany have another and equally impor-
tant source of news and ideas in the five
radio’ stations controlled by Military Govern-
ment in the US Sector of Berlin, Bremen,
Stuttgart, Frankfurt, and Munich. While
their prime purpose is projection of America,
their programs offer a balancé of material
rariging from news broadcasts and political
discussion to finding of lost German children.

‘All ‘stations’ emphasize ‘official United

--- Page 12 ---
Students at the US Information Center in Frank-
furt listen fo a lecture on American literature.

States policy as it applies to international
relations and to Germany. Pronouncements
by the President, Secretary of State, or other
important US or German occupation officials
are invariably highlighted.

To further the democratic processes of
self-government, the stations follow faith-
fully a schedule of frequent political broad-
casts, allotting the various -parties equal
opportunity to present their cases before the
people. Likewise,.some stations have intro-
duced ‘“‘Town. Meetings of the Air,” permitt-
ing German government officials as well as
ordinary citizens a chance to express their
views publicly.

In its general ‘program of helping to re-
orientate the German people, Radio Control
Branch of ODIC has been operating two

Signal Corps Phot»

Schulfunks, or schools of the air, over Radio
Stuttgart and Radio Frankfurt. These
broadcasts are designed to accomplish two
purposes: To help offset the critical shortage
in textbooks and properly trained teachers,
and to provide a modern media of instruc- _
tion in a variety of subjects, ranging from
German and world history to science and
biography. ,

Following the practice pursued in the
German press, these radio stations demon-
strate to German listeners the value of fact-
ual and objective reporting of local, national,
and world news. Considerable time also is
devoted to. commentaries on contemporary
problems, particularly by German govern-
mental officials and representative political
leaders.

MG teaches democracy not only by spe-

(Continued on poge 35)

--- Page 13 ---
he Manpower Division, with a finger in
nearly every industrial activity within
the US Zone, operates with a small staff on
a scale much wider than that of the Depart-
ment of Labor in Washington.

Some people may erroneously think “Man-
power Division” means an agency which
handles personnel matters for Military Gov-
ernment. Actually, its problems are exclus-
ively those of German labor. Policy matters
are the primary concern of the Division, for
practically all the operating functions are
delegated to the German labor and social
insurance offices established in. the US. Zone
during the past one and.a half years. . The
Division gets its work done by direct super-
vision of the German labor agencies or, in-
directly, by operating through the Regional
Manpower Offices in each Land. In this
way, the Manpower Division can be sure
that German agencies are following dem-
ocratic Allied policies.

The Manpower Division has five main
responsibilities. First, German labor must
be used to further Allied objectives. This
means that military demands and essential
needs of the German economy must ‘be given
primary consideration, that workers: must be
trained for: peacetime industries, and :that
unemployment must be reduced. In carrying

--- Page 14 ---
out these objectives, the Division encourages
the use of incentives and decent methods of

placement rather than the Nazi-like methods
of compulsion.
Second, democratic principles must be ob-

served in industrial. relations and in the’

forming of trade unions.

Third, German workers must. receive
wages high enough to maintain decent living
standards within the limits set by Allied
policy; wages must be adjusted in unfair
cases and for the purpose of encouraging
problem industries; wage changes must not
produce inflation; and — for reasons of
health and efficiency — there must be satis-
factory working conditions in German in-
dustries.

Fourth, German agencies must adopt uni-
form social security provisions for workers
and their dependents, organized on a Land
basis-under the administration of democratic;

self-governing bodies.

And finally, available housing space must
be distributed so as to prevent disease and
unrest. This includes repair and construc-
tion of workers’ housing, maintenance of
construction standards, and establishment of
a priority system for allocation of housing
space.

The Manpower Division’s authority for
carrying out this work comes from the Pots-
dam Agreement, the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Memorandum 1067/68, Military Government
Regulations Title 15, and quadripartite legis-
lation, as embodied in the various Control
Council laws, directives, and orders.

The structure of the Division is simple.
In addition to the secretariat and the admin-
istrative offices, it is divided into five
branches: Manpower Allocation; Wages,
Labor Standards and Housing; Labor Rela-
tions; Social Insurance; and Reports and

(Lett) A German worker at the Opel automobile
factory in Russelheim; (below) a woman employed
by the Lorenz Radio Co. in Berlin. The supervision
of their working conditions is a responsibility of the
Manpower Division. Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 15 ---
Statistics. A field office operates with each
of the Offices of Military Government in the
Laender, the US Sector of Berlin, and Land
Bremen. The Manpower Division of OMGUS
has complete responsibility for all quadri-
partite negotiations affecting labor in Ger-
many as a whole and for all policy matters
affecting the US Zone. The regional offices
in each of the Laender carry out these agree-
ments and policies.

The Manpower Allocation Branch is re-
sponsible chiefly for developing and check-
ing on the administration of manpower
allocation policies. The routine work of
the labor offices, in which the Germans have
complete administrative responsibility, does
not concern this branch. But it maintains a
close contact with the labor offices on all
labor matters from occupation
policies.

arising

German workers receive voting papers for shop steward elections as democratic methods
of handling labor-management questions are restored to US Zone factories and offices.

12

Changing economic conditions must be met
and undemocratic restrictions and prefer-
ences must be eliminated. Manpower must
be used wisely. This is achieved by constant
review and revision of manpower controls in
accordance with MGR, Title 15. German
Land Governments are required to continue
the system of mobilization, registration, and
allocation of all manpower that existed dur-
ing the war but with the elimination of-all
discriminatory practices and regulations
related to race, creed, nationality, or political
opinion. Under the current practice, all
men between the ages of 14 and 65 and all
women between the ages of 15 and 50 in-
clusive are required to register with the labor
office nearest their residence. ;

At present, the Allocation Branch has the
job of deciding upon a zonal policy for
using the great number of physically-handi-

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 16 ---
capped and partially-employable persons.
Employment, unemployment, and labor re-
quirements in Germany as a whole must be
analyzed and a general Allied policy devel-
oped for transferring German workers to
other zones and countries to meet specific
manpower requirements.

As industry is reconstructed along new
industrial patterns, workers need training
and retraining to satisfy changing skill
requirements. They must then be apportioned
throughout the Zone according to the needs
of the German economy and the occupation
forces. These problems are of special inter-
est to the Manpower Allocation Branch.
Recently, in two industries where there were
dangerous labor shortages, the Branch took
action to make more manpower available for
the repair of railway rolling stock and for
work in the coal mining industry.

Inspection is perhaps the most difficult

job of the Allocation Branch. The work of
the German Administration must be examin-
ed regularly to see that it carries out Control
Council laws, orders, and directives, and MG
regulations. Until recently, this task was.
done by the regional manpower officers, but
with the limited size of staffs in the field,
the Allocation Branch is devoting more time
to enforcement and investigation of labor
shortages and misuse of available manpower
in the field.

The Wages and Labor Standards Branch
develops policies for controlling wage rates
and income, for regulating hours and condi-
tions of work, and for reviewing protective
labor legislation. It also is responsible for
forming..a_ policy for allocating housing
space, maintaining construction standards
for new housing, and stimulating building
and repair of damaged housing space.

_In the field of wages, the Standards

(Continued on page 39)

Allocating housing space for workers whose homes have been wrecked like the mulfi-
family unit pictured above is a responsibility of officials of MG's Manpower Division.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 17 ---
Ne pian for the reconstruction of a peace-
ful Germany can be effective without
first liquidating certain aspects of German
war finance and establishing the financial
framework essential to a peacetime economy.
Finance Division responsibilities have been
focused primarily on formulating policy,
with supervisory functions delegated to Land
Military Government fiscal officers. An in-
creasing amount of policy formation as well
as administrative operations is left to the
German Land Governments. In this separa-
tion of duties, the Finance Division has help-
ed Land officers to interpret policies and
laws, and to check on how well the Germans
are complying with financial regulations.
For some questions, however, it has been
impossible to delegate authority to German
officials or even to Land Military Govern-
ment officers. This is true particularly of
foreign exchange and external assets.
During the first six months of occupation,
the Finance Division assisted the Public
Safety Branch in screening about 14,000 of-
ficials in government and private financial
institutions, and in reviewing their practices
for political or racial discrimination. Now
that most of the removal of personnel is
completed, denazification work consists

--- Page 18 ---
largely of bizonal discussions for setting up
uniform standards, and investigation of in-
dividual cases.

The Division has blocked the use of pro-
perty and financial assets owned by those
subject to denazification laws. This prevents
such property from being dissipated, con-
cealed, or used to continue the influence of
Nazis and militarists. For cases where Nazi-
held property was acquired by force or other
discriminatory action, the Finance Division
is formulating a program to process and
dispose of claims, and will supervise the
German agencies which are to administer
the program.

Along with the control of property within
Germany, investigations are being made to
identify German investments and assets
abroad. At the same time, the casual export
or import of valuable assets has been pro-
hibited, and only such transactions are per-
mitted as fit in with MG plans for economic
development of Germany.

STUDY OF INSTITUTIONS

Another important aspect of Finance Divi-
sion activity is the study of financial in-
stitutions to see how they must be changed
for peace-time needs. This includes discus-
sions with German officials on changes need-
ed in the organization and practices of
various institutions, such as decentralization
of the banking system (the large Berlin
banks formerly had over 1300 branches), and
the reopening of insurance companies and
security exchanges. It also includes consult-
ing with German finance officials so that
current government revenues will cover as
much of the approved expenditures and oc-
cupation costs as possbile.

Along with planning and supervising
financial operations in the US Zone, the
Finance Division has held continuing dis-
cussions with other occupying powers to
secure uniform financial practices throughout

These huge plaster-of-paris figures in the studio
of Dr. Josef Thorak, the Nazis’ most celebrated
sculptor, have been placed in the hands of the
Property Control Branch, OMGB. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 19 ---
Germany. These talks have resulted in a
number of Control Council laws covering all
four zones. At the same time, to promote
the occupation policy adopted at Potsdam
for treating Germany as an economic unit,
the Military Governments of the US and
British Zones have agreed to establish joint
administrative committees for several fields,
including finance. The French and Soviet
Military Governments have been invited to
join in these agreements.

' These activities of the Finance Division
can be grouped into seven programs:
(1) Blocking, administering, and disposing
of certain categories of property within Ger-
many — a duty of the Finance Division’s
Foreign Exchange and Blocking Control
Branch and Property Control Branch;
(2) identifying and marshalling German ex-
ternal assets, as carried out by the External
Assets and Intelligence Branch; (3) controll-
ing the use of foreign exchange assets, as
directed by the Foreign Exchange and Block-
ing Control Branch; (4) observing and ad-
vising German authorities in their develop-
ment of policy toward financial institutions,

a duty of the Financial Institutions Branch;
(5) eliminating inflationary elements in the
monetary system, which is planned by the
Financial Institutions and the Public Finance
Branches; (6) observing and advising on Ger-
man public finances, handled by the Public
Finance Branch; and finally (7) securing
and analyzing information necessary to MG
supervision, which is done by all branches.

By blocking, administering, and disposing
of property within Germany, Military Gov-
ernment now controls the use of specific
groups of properties: Those where the owner
needs to be deprived of control pending final
decision by a denazification tribunal; those
without an owner because they were owned
by Nazi organizations or government units
which no longer exist; and those which
should be protected for absentee owners
living in other countries and for persons
whose properties were taken by force.

The detailed categories of properties sub-
ject to blocking control are named in Military
Government Law 52 and General Order No. 1.
Blocking of certain properties also is in-

(Below) The Reichsdruckerei in Berlin
which handled the job of printing
Germany's currency.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 20 ---
dicated under Article 61 of the German Law
for Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism. While this German Law does
not coincide with MG Law No. 52, a
supplement to Law 52 provides that prop-
erty subject to blocking under German law
shall automatically be subject to blocking
under MG law. This supplement was issued
in order to retain in American hands initial
responsibility for blocking until such time
as a comprehensive German blocking law is
promulgated. Meanwhile blocking is actually
carried out through German channels, and
German financial institutions are responsible
for its supervision.

The properties subject to blocking and
control include both tangibles and intangibles.
Certain properties which were owned by the
Reich Government or by Nazi organizations,
and which are useful in the present German
economy, are operated under control of MG;
all other properties of the Reich and Nazi
organizations are completely blocked. Most

(Right) The central offices of the Reichs-
bank which served as headquarters for
German finance during the Nazi regime.
Photo by Byers

other business and personal properties are
only partially blocked, and withdrawals are
permitted for living expenses of the owner
not exceeding RM 300 per month. With-
drawals for other purposes are permitied
only under special license. Licenses for
various routine purposes may be authorized
by the Land Central Banks (formerly the
Reichsbank); license applications involving
more discretion must be reviewed by MG at
Land or OMGUS level.

Blocked business properties requiring cur-
rent supervision are placed under “property

--- Page 21 ---
_control,” and a German custodian is ap-
pointed who must see that no transactions
are made which would impair the value or
permit the concealment of the assets. In
practice, the custodians appointed by MG
usually have been persons who already were
connected with the business and therefore
familiar with its operations. Under the pro-
gram for delegating maximum control to
German authorities, steps have been taken
to provide that after any fines or partial
confiscation ordered by denazification tri-
bunals have been paid from the blocked or
controlled properties, the balance remaining
shall be released to the owner.

CONTROL OF EXTERNAL ASSETS

Supplementing the control of Germany’s
internal assets is the program for identifying
and marshalling German external assets,
that is, assets located’ outside the prewar
boundaries of Germany. By carrying out
this program, the German war potential re-
presented by these foreign holdings is elim-
inated and the proceeds of liquidation are
made available for reparations as provided
by international agreements.

After the Potsdam Agreement of August
1945 had given the Allied Control Council
power to contro] and dispose of German ex-
ternal assets, Control Council Law 5 vested
title to these assets in the German External
Property Commission. The Finance Division
represents the US element on this commis-
sion and assists it in carrying out its re-
sponsibilities.

PROBLEM OF IDENTIFICATION

A major problem in this work is to identify
German-owned assets outside Germany,
which the Division does through two co-
ordinated programs. One is the census pro-
gram under which Germans in the US Zone
and the US Sector of Berlin are required to
file declarations listing in detail their foreign
assets and liabilities. The information ob-
tained, after analysis and tabulation, is
distributed to the interested agencies and
diplomatic missions. The census is supple-

18

mented by the investigative program of the
Division whereby it endeavors to uncover
foreign assets which are not voluntarily
declared and which have in many instances
been deliberately concealed. The division
maintains at the Ministerial Document Center
a large collection of financial records ob-
tained from official and semi-official Ger-
man agencies. These records have served
many purposes, including the supplying of
valuable information on German-owned ex-
ternal assets.

The only foreign exchange assets currently
available to Germany are those which have
accrued during occupation by sale of German
products abroad, since previously existing
foreign exchange assets held in Germany
were delivered to Military Government under
MG Law 53. The proceeds of exports are
applied first to pay for necessary imports,
and the broad policy for controlling the use
of foreign exchange assets is to secure these
resources and prevent their diversion to
purposes other than those approved by MG.

CIRCUITS OF FINANCING

Since no general rate of exchange has yet
been established for the Reichsmark, the
financing of German imports and exports
has run in two circuits, one in marks at
internally controlled prices, and the other in
foreign exchange at world prices. In the
mark circuit the proceeds derived from the
sale of imports in the German economy are
used to reimburse German suppliers for the
mark cost of exports. In the foreign ex-
change circuit, the cost of approved imports
is defrayed, insofar as possible, from the
proceeds of exports. Thus far the cost of
necessary imports into the US Zone has ex-
ceeded proceeds from exports, and the de-
ficit has been made up from War Depart-
ment appropriated funds, intended to be
reimbursed from proceeds of future German
exports.

During the past year both the internal and
external circuits have been operated by
Finance Division. In accordance with MG
plans to turn over additional responsibility

--- Page 22 ---
to the Germans, and in implementation of
the bizonal agreement between the United
States and the United Kingdom, internal
financing of imports and exports for the
two zones was delegated to the Foreign
Trade Finance Office (German) in Frank-
furt. For all external financial transactions
a Joint Foreign Exchange Office is to be
established in Berlin, managed by German
personnel under United States-United King-
dom supervision.

The responsibilities of the Finance Divi-
sion for foreign exchange control extend
also to various other types of transactions.
Questions raised by the certificates of credit
and military payment orders held by former
prisoners of war in the United States have
recently been settled. In addition, study is
being given to the problem of compensating
in marks for foreign exchange assets deliv-
ered under MG Law 53, and to problems

The German workers pictured above are making cash registers at the Berlin plant of the National
Cash Register Co. The factory is in custody of the Finance Division's Property Control Branch.

19

“o
2
2
ai
Py
&,

incident to controlling the financial opera-
tions of foreign concerns licensed te operate
in Germany.

One of the reasons why German industry
and consumer savings were so effectively
mobilized for war was the centralized control
exercised by banks, insurance companies, and
security etchanges. Accordingly, it has been
important for Military Government to devel-
op policies to decentralize financial insti-
tutions and reduce their control over industry.

With these objectives in mind the
Finance Division is continuously reviewing
present financial practices and policies, and
is considering the problems connected with
financial decentralization. In accordance
with the Potsdam Agreement, efforts have
been made to secure quadripartite agreement
on the uniform treatment of various monetary
and financial problems. In some instances
where such agreement could not be obtained,

Signal, Corps Photo

--- Page 23 ---
US officials have discussed with the Land
Governments of the US Zone the possibility
of achieving Potsdam objectives in the US
Zone at least. One result of such discussions
has been the decentralization of the Reichs-
bank. This was accomplished by Land legisla-
tion which replaced the Reichsbanks in. the
US Zone with individual Land Central Banks.
Other problems have included the provision
of necessary bank clearing facilities between
Berlin and the US Zone, the decentralization
of the branch systems of the big Berlin banks,
the decentralization of affiliated groups of
insurance companies, and the liquidation of
the German Labor Front Bank and insurance
company.

BIG BANKS INVESTIGATED

As a basis for some of the banking plans,
extensive investigations have been conducted
into the prewar and wartime practices of the
big banks and into their political relations
with the Nazi Party and with German im-
perialist expansion. The results of these in-
vestigations are made available to the Office
of Chief of Counsel for use in the War
Crimes Trials.

Another Military Government objective is
financial responsibility and autonomy of
local governments, so that Germany even-
tually can finance its normal peacetime
functions. To help the governments reach
this goal the Finance Division observes and
advises on current developments in German
public finances. Draft budgets of the Laen-
der are examined to ensure conformity with
Military Government policy.

To carry out these functions requires
study of the tax system, its relation to pro-
duction and trade and its ability to provide
the funds required by the various units of
Government. Continued study is made also
of such expenditure items as public welfare,
social insurance, pensions, and public works
to determine the continued ability of the
governmental units to support them and, at
the same time, to pay such obligatory items
as occupation costs and care of refugees and
expellees.

These problems and proposals for their
solution are discussed with other interested
divisions of Military Government, with Land
Military Government officers, with bizonal
authorities, and with German officials, as
the case may require. Views are also inter-
changed with representatives of the occupy-
ing powers in an effort to promote uniform-
ity of principle and uniform application of
fiscal legislation. In this connection, other
action by the Finance Division includes
participation in the development of over-all
price policy for Germany, fiscal policies in-
volved in procurement by US agencies of
supplies and personnel within Germany, and
various aspects of the proposed German
Central Finance Department,

As a basis for all its supervisory and
planning functions, Military Government
must have knowledge of the condition of
German financial institutions and of various
financial aspects of the entire economy of
the US Zone. Therefore the securing and
analyzing of statistics and other field intel-
ligence is another important function of the
Finance Division.

INFORMATION SOURCES

In the first year of occupation, available
financial information came largely from
local MG officers. Since these men have
been withdrawn from local areas, MG has
had to rely increasingly upon statistical re-
ports, prepared by German agencies and
analyzed in the Finance Division. The
design and procurement of these reports is
the direct responsibility of the various
branches of the Finance Division. It is
supplemented by reports éf Land MG offices
and of other OMGUS divisions. Significant
financial information from all sources is
combined with information obtained in the
course of current functional supervision, and
is submitted periodically to the Military
Government and the US War Department.
In accordance with quadripartite agreement
financial statistics are also provided cur-
rently through the Finance: Directorate to
the other occupying powers.

--- Page 24 ---
FRANKFURT BANK

Until the latter part of the nineteenth cen-
tury, Frankfurt a/M was famous as the
financial center of western Europe. Then,
under Bismarck, a trend began toward the
centralization of German banking in Berlin,
climaxed with the ‘Berlin-centered Reichs-
bank of the Hitler era.

The Reichsbank at Frankfurt was the main
bank in the Reichsbank system for Hesse
until the Land Central Banks took over the

_ functions of the Reichsbank in the US Zone
of Germany, under provisions of uniform
laws adopted by the three Laender which

became effective 1 January. Under the new
Land Central Bank system, the Directorium
of the LCB for Hesse is now located at Wies-
baden. But the Frankfurt bank stands as the
largest of the LCB branches in Hesse and the
second largest in the US Zone.

Functioning generally like Federal Re-
serve Banks in the United States, the Land
Central Banks and their branches act
primarily as a clearing agency and do
not handle savings accounts and small per-
sonal checking accounts. However, they do
handle large industrial accounts.

Signal Corps: Photo

--- Page 25 ---


--- Page 26 ---
(Extreme left) The former Frankfurt Reichs-
bank, now the largest branch of the Land
Central Bank of Hesse. (Left) A clerk in the
Frankfurt bank receives large packages of
money for deposit. Under the Land Central
Bank set-up, deposits are still exceeding
withdrawals. (Lower left) A woman bank em-
ployee operates the bookkeeping machines
necessitated by the large number of trans-
actions performed daily by the bank. (Below)
A Frankfurt businessman makes a deposit
to his firm’s account. (Right) Employees
count the day’s deposits at the Deutsche
Bank, another large bank in Frankfurt.
Although not part of the Land Central Bank
system, branches of a private bank such as
this one are similarly limited to one Land.

Signal Corps Photos

‘Einzahl-Kasse.

--- Page 27 ---
li Nazi laws which provided the basis of

the Hitler regime or established dis-
crimination on grounds of race, creed, or
political opinion shall be abolished. No such
discriminations, whether legal, administra-
tive, or otherwise, shall be tolerated.”

In these words the Potsdam Declaration
set forth an objective of the occupation of
Germany; and the accomplishment of this
objective is one of the major aims of the
Legal Division of OMGUS. The Potsdam
document continues:

“War Criminals and those who have partic-
ipated in planning or carrying out Nazi
enterprises involving or resulting in atrocities
or war crimes shall be arrested and brought
to judgment. Nazi leaders, influential Nazi
supporters and high officials of Nazi organ-
izations and institutions and any other per-
sons dangerous to the occupation or its ob-
jectives shall be arrested and interned.

“All members of the Nazi Party who have
been more than nominal participants in its
activities and all other persons hostile to
Allied purposes shall be removed from
public and semi-public offices, and from po-
sitions or responsibility in important private
undertakings. Such persons shall be re-
placed by persons who, by their political
and moral qualities, are deemed capable of

--- Page 28 ---
assisting in developing genuine democratic
institutions in Germany.

“The judicial system will be reorganized
in accordance with the principles of de-
mocracy, of justice under law, and of equal
rights for all citizens without distinction of
race, nationality or religion...”

While all of these objectives have been
implemented and elaborated by laws and
directives, they remain the guide and refer-
ence for day-to-day operations in the Legal
Division’s various branches: Administration
of Justice, Board of Clemency, Legal Advice,
Legislation, Prisons, and War Crimes.

Broadly speaking, the role of the Division
may be’ described as that of administrator,
legislator, and legal adviser. ’

Responsibility with respect to German and
Military Government courts lies with the
Administration of Justice Branch, German
courts are once again functioning throughout

the US Zone, handling civil and criminal
cases of all types. The three levels of Ger-
man ordinary courts include the Local Courts
(Amtsgerichte), District Courts (Landgerich-
te), and Courts of Appeals (Oberlandesge-
richte), all of which are under the super-
vision of the Minister of Justice in each
Land. Through regional MG offices, the
Administration of Justice Branch, while leav-
ing operating responsibility to the Germans
themselves, inspects and checks these courts
to make certain they are functioning “in
accordance with the principles of democracy,
of justice under law, and of equal rights for
all citizens without distinction of race, na-
tionality or religion.” The new Land con-
stitutions authorize the establishment of
Supreme Constitutional Courts, which decide
on the constitutionality of laws and perform
related tasks. Here again the Administra-
tion of Justice Branch follows their opera-

This group was among the 74 defendents who were tried by the Military Tribunal at Dachau
for participation in the Malmedy killings of US troops during the “Battle of the Bulge.”

Signa! Corps Photo

--- Page 29 ---
A German juvenile delinquent shown before
a Military Government Court in Frankfurt.

tion without supervising them directly.

In addition to the German courts there are
nearly 250 MG courts throughout the US
Zone and the US Sector of Berlin which
function to protect the interests of the Allied
Forces and United Nations personnel. Un-
less expressly authorized by law or appro-
priate MG authority, no United Nations
national may be tried in a German court in
a criminal case. Generally, civil cases in-
volving United Nations nationals may be
heard by, German courts only if the prin-
cipals agree thereto and MG approves. MG
courts are of three types: General, Inter-
mediateyand Summary. General courts may
impose any lawful sentence including death;
Intermediate courts may impose any sentence
except: death, imprisonment in excess of 10
years, or a fine of more than 10,000 dollars;

26

Signal Corps_Photo

Summary courts are limited to prison sen-
tences of one year and fines of 1,000 dollars.
One of the principal functions of the Admin-
istration of Justice Branch in connection with
MG courts is the maintenance of close liaison
and supervision to insure that justice is
meted out in an impartial and uniform
manner.

The MG courts enumerated above are em-
powered to try only criminal cases. An MG
Court for Civil Actions has been established,
with headquarters at Stuttgart, which will
hear actions for damages arising out of the
operation of automobiles not owned by the
US Government, when a national of the
United Nations is a party to the suit.

The German Patent Office, located in the
US Sector of Berlin, has been maintained by
the Administration of Justice Branch pend-

--- Page 30 ---
ing agreement by the quadripartite Industrial
Property Committee on its reopening. On
file at the Office are approximately 180,000
duplicate copies of patent applications,
most of which had been removed from Berlin
during the war, and were later found in
various parts of Germany, reassembled, and
returned to Berlin shortly after the sur-
render.

The Central Ministry of Justice also
awaits quadripartite approval for its reopen-
ing. Here again US MG has reassembled
the files and assumed temporary respons-
ibility for its maintenance. Some 100,000
personnel files on German judges and court
officials are available to all four occupying
powers, and have proved valuable in clarify-
ing the political past of judges suspected of
Nazi tendencies.

The administration of prisons is related to
administration of justice in general, but in

Prisoners at work in the wire shop of
the Butzback prison in Bufzback, Hesse.

the Legal Division it is the responsibility of
a special Prisons Branch. Regular inspec-
tions are made of the 250 prisons and peni-
tentiaries in the US Zone, all of which have
German wardens and other administrative
personnel. These institutions are operated
in semi-autonomous manner, but the Prisons
Branch must make frequent checks to insure
that they are being administered according
to the progressive principles laid down in
Control Council Directive No. 19 (Principles
for Administration of German Prisons.) The
Clemency Board, which includes one prison
officer in its membership, is concerned with
pardons, paroles, and amnesties for prisoners
sentenced by MG and German courts in the
US Zone. The German Ministries of Justice
have been encouraged to set up their own
clemency boards for prisoners convicted by
German courts.

While the punishment of war criminals is

=,27 “Signal ‘Corps Photo

--- Page 31 ---
The four judges of Military Tribunal No. 1 in Nurem-
berg which is currently hearing war crimes cases.

one of MG’s major objectives, the role of
the Legal Division in this matter has been
limited to the drafting of legislation, legal
advice, and liaison. The War Crimes Branch
of the division acts as a liaison office be-
tween the Theater Judge Advocate, the Mil-
itary Tribunals at Nuremberg, and various
foreign missions which, through the Allied
Control Authority, seek custody of war crim-
inals held by the US Army. The War
Crimes Branch also provides US representa-
tion on the Permanent Commission on the
Central Registry of War Criminals and Se-
curity Suspects, a quadripartite agency
which maintains lists of wanted war crim-
inals.

The Legislation Branch is the néwest ad-
dition to the Legal Division, assuming func-
tions formerly performed by both the Legal
Advice and Administration of Justice

Photo by PRO, OCC

Branches. The drafting of new legislation,
both on the quadripartite and zonal levels,
is one of the chief responsibilities of the
branch, along with examination of new Ger-
man legislation to insure its conformance
with Control Council and MG law policy and
with existing German law.

On the quadripartite level several com-
mittees, for which the Legislation Branch
provides the US members, are working to
eliminate those Nazi laws “which provided
the basis of the Hitler regime or established
discrimination on grounds of race, creed,
or political opinion.” The Committee on the
Reform of German Law held its first meeting
on 21 March 1946 “to examine German
legislation and make recommendations to the
Legal Directorate for the elimination from
it of Nazi laws and for the substitution where
necessary of appropriate provisions.” By

--- Page 32 ---
the end of June 1947, the Committee expects
to have completed the rewriting of laws on
commercial corporations, public welfare,
cultural affairs, mail and telecommunica-
tions, police law, and laws concerning in-
dustrial property. Committees on the Revis-
ion of the Criminal and Juvenile Codes have
already completed initial drafts in their
respective fields. All of these committees
are under the Legal Directorate, which per-
forms many of the division’s functions on a
quadripartite level. The Director or, in his
absence, the Associate Director of the Legal
Division serves as US representative on the
Directorate.

The division’s Legal Advice Branch fur-
nishes’ advisers to a number of important
OMGUS agencies and committees. - These
include’ the Denazification Board, which
assisted in the drawing up of the Law for
Liberation from National Socialism and Mil-

itarism; the interdivisional Committee on
Governmental structure, which is studying
various problems related to the political
future of Germany; the Property Disposition
Board, which is» working on a long-range”
program for the ultimate disposition of Ger-
man property now. under MG control; and
the Export-Import Board, which is engaged
in selling German-made products abroad and
buying materials and goods required in the
US Zone of Germazy. ‘

It is not anticipated that the recently
announced bizonal agreement with the Brit-
ish will affect the administrative program of
the Legal Division, although some. legal
preblems are certain ‘to arise. Unification
of all Germany would, however, have an
important bearing on the division’s future
activities. In anticipation of that day, plans
are already being made for the reopening
and joint administration of the Patent Office.

A prosecution witness appearing before Military Tribunal No. 1 shows the
court the results of an operation at the Ravensbrueck concentration camp.

Signal Coros Photo

--- Page 33 ---
Industrial Production Declines

Reflecting the year-end holidays and ad-
verse seasonal factors such as frozen water-
ways, stalled transportation, damaged equip-
ment and forced shutdowns, industrial
production in the US Zone declined in De-
cember to an estimated 39 percent of the
1936 average from 44 percent in November,
according to data compiled by the Economics
Division, OMGUS.

Declines in production were pe ted in
the following industries: precision instru-
ments and optics, stones and earth, electrical
equipment, ceramics, textiles. Production of
light bulbs, radio receivers, and storage bat-
teries showed small increases. Truck output
rose as partially finished trucks, delayed by
lack of parts in November, were fully as-
sembled. Iron and steel production remained
virtually unchanged with increased outpnt of
pig iron and ingot steel offsetting declines in
steel mill products and gray iron castings.

Coal mining in the US Zone held up well,
average daily output of brown and pech coal
advancing to new monthly highs. For Ger-
many as a whole, the production of coal
during December was described as “good”.
Gains during first three weeks of the month
were so great that neither the subsequent
cold nor frost, disabled machines nor dis-
organized transport, could keep hard coal
from rising to a new monthly peak. Produc-
tion of brown coal in Germany declined
about five percent in December to 13,258,000
tons.

France continued to receive the largest
single share of coal exported from Germany.
In the fourth quarier, leadings for export to
France (including North Africa) averaged
214,000 tons monthly, 29 percent of all ex-
ports (except Austria). This compared with
an average of 314,000 tons in the previous
quarter when its share of the total was al-
most 31 percent. Luxembourg received
121,000 tons monthly, followed by the

Netherlands’ 110,000 tons er Ce

80,000 tons. Other receiving couritries in-
cluded Belgium, Italy, and Norway.

In the US Zone, December receipts for
German civilian requirements from US Army
stocks of petroleum, oil; and lubricants,
amounted to 22,500 tons, a decline of 30 per-
cent from November. Soviet representatives
engaged in reparations and demolition work
in the US Zone have heen provided with
coupons for 40,000 liters of gasoline and
750 liters of motor oil. Reimbursement in
kind will be made from POL stocks in the
Soviet Zone. The original motor fuel alloca-
tion for Soviet representatives, made some
months ago, has been settled in full by ship-
ments from the Soviet Zone.

During 1946, US Zone users of rolled
steel — the Reichsbahn, waterways, bridge

‘builders, the US Army, farm machinery

plants, truck manufacturers, anti-friction
bearing plants, and other steel consumers —
had available about 300,000 tons of rolled
steel. Of this total, about 43 percent came
from US Zone rolling mills, about 55 percent
from British Zone mills, and two percent
from French Zone mills.

Bavarian “Hit Parade”

One of the Radio Munich’s most popular
programs. “Die Zehn der Woche” (The Ten
of the Week) is patterned after America’s
long popular “Hit Parade” with similar
music and methods of presentation. The
American hits selected by listeners and re-
quested by letter are played each Thursday |
at 2130 hours. ;

Started in November 1945, the program
has grown io an outstanding weekly feature,
drawing an average of four to five thousand
letters, posteerds, and telegrams a month.
The mailbag is enlarged substantially, how-
ever, when American musical films are play-
ing in Munich, sometimes reaching seven
thousand requests a month.

--- Page 34 ---
“Sun Valley Serenade” with Sonja Henie
and the late Glenn Miller is currently show-
ing in the city and requests for hits from
this film have topped the list in recent weeks.

Recordings of the various hits have been
supplied by AFN for the program. Music
from motion pictures, however, is taken from
the original film sound track played at the
Bavaria film studios near Munich and piped
to the radio station.

‘The German master of ceremonies on the
program reports that the following hits have
topped the lists in recent weeks: “I Know
Why,” “In the Mood,” “Chattanooga Choo
Choo,” “South America Take it Away,”
“Give me Five Minutes More”, and “To each
his Own.” But the all time high on the
Bavarian hit parade is “Don’t Fence Me In”
sung by James Melton.

About half of the requests come from
Munich and vicinity and the other half from
the rest of Germany and Europe. Letters
have been received from all European coun-
tries except Finland, the Baltic States, and
Spain. Writers have sent in drawings, poems,
and money. The money is turned over to
the Bavarian Red Cross and a display of' the
drawings has been set up at the radio station.

“If” Offers No Help

Advice to the Germans to stop “feeling a
little, sorry for yourselves,” and to have “a
little more confidence” was given by Lt. Gen.
Lucius D. Clay, US Deputy Military Gov-
ernor, in addressing a recent bizonal. meeting
of mining leaders and German officials at
Essen. The economy of the US and British
Zones, he said, could not be rebuilt on “IF”
— if the prisoners of war were returned —
if the French and Russian Zones helped —
if no coal was exported — and so on.

The DMG suggested that the Germans
count their: blessings. For example, as re-
gards export, not one pound of coal had left
either of the two zones as reparations. They
now had. 60,000,000 dollars in hand from
last year’s exports, and this would be spent
on raw materials for German industry. In
addition, it had been agreed to ask Great

31

‘ Britain and the United States for a fund of

600,000,000 dollars for the importing of
food. For this year, at any rate, the proceeds
of export would go back into the German
economy and not be used to buy food.

On the supply problem, he pointed out,
more coal would mean more iron and steel,
Plans’ for the coal industry must be care-
fully made. Recruiting of miners could not
be achieved by talk or philosophy, but only
by carefully prepared plans.

“Guinea Pig” Code Urged

Dr. Andrew C. Ivy, after an exhaustive
review of the record of the current war
crimes trial at Nuremberg of 23 doctors and
scientists. accused of conducting medical ex-
periments on inmates of concentration camps,
returned to the United States with a recom-
mendation for publication of an international,
legalized code of ethics on. the use of human
beings as experimental subjects.

Dr. Ivy, who is Vice President of: the
University of Illinois in charge of the Col-
leges of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, and
Nursing, said that in the experiments charg-
ed to the defendants at the Nuremberg trials,
“the scientific method of clinical investiga-
tion has been debased by the Nazis.” He
also pointed out that there has never been a
written code of ethics for human experiment-
ation. Reputable doctors, however, he as-
serted, have always followed the unwritten
rule that all “human guinea pigs” must be
volunteers, and the danger of the medical
tests must be previously investigated by
animal ‘experimentation.

During a previous visit in Nuremberg last
August as a special consultant for the
Secretary of War, Dr. Ivy made a study of
Nazi medical experiments performed: during
the war on inmates of concentration camps.
As a result of this research, he concluded
that the Nazis gained practically nothing
of scientific importance. “Our work in‘ the
United States,” he added, “is so far ahead of
German science, that we were disappointed
not to find comeing of value from Nazi
medical researc!

--- Page 35 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

Stocks of flour, meat, and sugar in the
US-occupied areas'of Germany were higher
on 1-January than they: were in the preced-
ing month. Amounts on hand varied from
a. week’s supply of meat (5,600 metric tons)
to 162 days’ supply of sugar (59,600 tons);
but stocks of potatoes, pulses, and fat declin-
ed in December. A marked seasonal drop
in commercial slaughter of cattle, calves, and
sheep took place during the month, but hog
slaughter rose eight percent as the 1946
spring pig crop began coming to market
under the livestock reduction program.

Implementation Regulation No. 15, defin-
ing ordinary labor pursuant to Article 63
of the Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism, and Implementa-
tion Regulation No. 16, clarifying claims
for payment of pensions, annuities, or other
benefits to be fulfilled, have been approved
by OMGUS for publication in the four
Laender.

. FARM PRODUCE ON BLACK MARKET

A survey of black market activities and
price control violations in Bavaria indicates
that one-quarter of the goods used for black
market purposes was farm produce, in spite
of farmers’ deliveries of their full quotas.

On ‘18 January the Kommissariat Police
Station at Hessisch-Lichtenau in Hesse was
attacked by unknown assailants, resulting
in the death of one rural policeman and the
wounding of another; the assailants fired
a fusilade of shots at the police and escap-
ed under cover of darkness. US Military
Police and German. civil police are conduct-
ing an intensive investigation.

A newly initiated comprehensive denazifi-
cation investigation of the student body at
Erlangen University aims at determining the
extent of Nazi influence at the University
and whether preference is being given to
victims of Nazi persecution. The investiga-
tion is being conducted by University author-
ities under MG supervision. :

A youth group (Jugendring) has ‘been

formed in Hersfeld, Hesse, to cooperate with
local authorities in an effort to stimulate the
rebuilding of destroyed rest areas. In Wuert-
temberg-Baden local youth organizations are
inereasing efforts to incorporate refuges
youth of their. communities into a youth
program.

An agreement has been reached with the
British relief organization “Save Europe
Now,” whereby 10,000 food relief packages
will come into the US Zone from England.

NEW JUVENILE DELINQUENT RULES

The Ministry of Labor and Welfare of
Hesse has issued new and progressive reg-
ulation concerning public and private cor-
rectional schools for juvenile delinquents,
wherein democratic self-government, voca-
tional training, and the abolition of corporal
punishment are provided for.

The extremely heavy influx of Civil Af-
fairs imports, mostly grain, during January
necessitated storing 115,000 tons in elevators
and 25,000 tons in motor barges until move-
ment by rail or water is possible. An ad-
ditional 170,000 tons are expected to arrive
during the first half of February.

February requirements for movement of
lumber under the United Kingdom-Dutch
Lumber Program include shipment of about
9,000 tons of green lumber from numerous
rail heads in Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
and Hesse, transport of 35,850 tons of
seasoned lumber from interior points to
Main, Neckar, and Rhine river ports, and
movement of approximately 45,000 tons from
those ports to coastwise steamers.

RAIL TARIFFS REDUCED

Reduction of special Reichsbahn passenger
tariffs went into effect 1 February and ap-
plies to commutation fares of workers in in-
dustry, inland waterway employees, seamen,
home workers and small home manufactur-
ers, employed blind people, people attending
public nursing clinics, agricultural helpers.
and small gardeners.

--- Page 36 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instructions
are printed for-the benefit of our readers.
Official copies of the quoted circulars, letters,
and directives may be obtained by writing
to the originating headquarters.

L&SO’s Reductions

A study on the possibility of eliminating

enlisted personnel from Liaison and Se-
curity Detachments and of consolidating
housekeeping functions in the Land offices
is provided in OMGUS letter, AG 211 (CO),
“Study on Personnel Requirements in Liaison
and Security Detachments,”’ dated 22 Jan-
uary 1947.
“ The letter directs that Land offices will
make an investigation of L&S Detachments
in order to ascertain what savings in person-
nel can be affected. It should be borne in
mind that the greater percentage of enlisted
personnel now available for assignment to
these detachmenis and other MG units do
not have MGS’s qualifying them for clerical
or secretarial positions. . It is considered that
clerical functions of L&S personnel are of
primary importance. Therefore, it is felt that
German personnel might be used to replace
enlisted mén and ‘that necessary classified
documents. could be prepared and handled
by officer personnel.

A report is to be submitted to OMGUS
headquarters by the Directors of Land of-
fices not later than 15 February. In this
report there should be-included the number
of enlisted and officer personnel presently
on duty with L&S Detachments. Figures
on the distribution of this personnel in. the
various Landkreis and Stadtkreis posts
should be given.as well as comments on the
advisability and practicality. of the elimina-
tion of enlisted personnel and the consolidat-
ing of housekeeping functions in the Land
offices. The importance of this report is
based. on the necessity of saving personnel
wherever possible in order to reach by 30 June
1947 the reduced figure of 4,000 positions for
all OMGUS excluding Berlin Command.

33

Expellee Draft Law

The Laenderrat has been directed: by
OMGUS to enact their “Draft Law concerh-
ing the Reception and Integration of Ger-
man Expellees,” with certain changes as
contained in OMGUS Letter AG 010 (CA),
dated 24 January 1947. The letter, directed
to the Ministers-President of the three Laen-
der, points out that action by the states of
the US Zone is subject to international agree-
ments to which the United States is a party;
and that, since the subject of expellees is
one which involves an international agree-
ment, decisions about expellees will continue
to be made by the Allied Control Authority,
or in the absence of quadripartite agreement,
by the MG of-each occupying power for its
zone of occupation.

The OMGUS. Letter continues: “The
cabinet of your state is authorized and direct-
ed to enact the ‘Draft Law concerning. the
Reception and Integration of German Ex-
pellees,’ including therein the category of
‘Persons of German citizenship who, on
1 January 1945, were residents of the Ger-
man provinces east of the Oder and the Goer-
litzer Neisse (territorial status of 1 Sep-
tember 1939).’

“The preamble of the law will recite, ‘This
law is enacted by the cabinet of the. state
of .... under the authority and direction
of Military Government as set forth in letter
dated. . . . January 1947.”

Denazification Forms

Land MG Special Branches have been
directed to use the Meldebogen in place of the
Fragebogen in investigation of individuals,
according to.OMGUS Cable V-12957, dated
16 January 1947. Exceptions to this change
are in the cases of candidates for leading
pesitions in bizonal agencies, and persons
whose names come before the Allied Intel-
ligence Committee for future consideration in
central (national) agency employment.

--- Page 37 ---
New Book by Eugen Kogon
Praised in Press Reviews

The recent book “Der SS Staat” (The SS
State) by Eugen Kogon on the concentration
camps is receiving high commendation from
the German press in the US Zone, according
to the weekly analysis by the Office of the
Director of Information Control, OMGUS, of
the editorial comment in the licensed press.

A review in the Frankfurter Neue Presse
predicted a greater effectiveness to Kogon’s
book in influencing the German thinking con-
cerning the concentration camps and Nazi
crimes than the motion picture “Todesmueh-
len” (Mills of Death) has had. It continued:

“This book comes at the right time. It is
the work of a great writer who once and for
all carries decision into a’ muddled mental
and and’ethical situation that concerns us...
His work also fulfills a task of meditation
with the rest of the world suchas rarely falls
toa book... A work like Kogon’s ‘SS-
Staat’ proves that even now when we are in-
undated with pamphlets and periodicals with-
out conviction, a book can move the hearts
and minds of men, if the writer has an acute,
articulate mind and shows a way by clear
thought out of labyrinthine confusion.”

Der Allgauer (Kempten) in a review of
the book said all the concentration camp
literature published heretofore can be dis-
missed as “books that appear nowadays by
the dozen and that emphasize and underline
German collective guilt and paint in distort-
ed perspective the grandiose, terrible fate of
the individual on the one hand, and on the
other the wanton, impenitent people in its
madness . . .. Yet, we all know that the con-
centration camp is a problem that we will
have to settle in our hearts.”

In describing Kogon’s book as-filling “this
crying need,” Der Allgaeuer concludes that
it is “perhaps the most important and most

been published 1
lation.”

State Secretariat Proposed

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-
bischofsheim) gave support to the idea for
the creation in Wuertiemberg-Baden of a
State secretariat for the preparation of ques-
tions arising out of the peace treaty. It be-
lieved that Germany should see her foreign
policy as follows:

“The belief that Germany could decide in
fayor of an Eastern or a Western group is
a fundamental error. The future role of
Germany can only correspond to that of a
greater Switzerland. The German people
must win confidence abroad so. that it will
not be considered as enemy or ally, but in-
stead as neutral — a country which sees its
future task in the maintenance of understand-
ing and the will to peace, in the reconstruc-
tion of a peaceful world order.”

Criticism of Rationing

In an editorial discussing the problem of
German economic organization, a topic which
has been receiving considerable attention in
the German press, the Kasseler Zeitung said:
“Let us go to Bavaria where the new econom-
ics minister Dr. Zorn appointed a special
commission to examine the overloaded textile
warehouses, which stand in contrast to the
inadequate issue of ration certificates. If that
were only a local situation one could ignore
it. But the same thing is being reported from
all cities and communities. Thousands of
families would be grateful to be able to buy
an electric cooker or an electric iron. The
economics office does not issue ration. certif-
icates although the warehouses are full . . «
This involves apparently a lack of planned
guidance in the distribution of consumer
goods.” :

--- Page 38 ---
INFORMATION CONTROL (€Gontinued from page-9)

cially-planned broadcasts: but also by .turn-
ing over a large share of responsibility to
the Germans in the sphere of actual opera-
tions. German radio executives from through-
out the zone have met frequently to discuss
mutual problems. On occasion they have
combined as a network to present a zone-
wide news broadcast to test their cooperative
scheduling.

A report of the proceedings at the -war
crimes trials before the International Mil-
itary Tribunal in Nuremberg was accom-
plished on a nation-wide scale, authorized by
quadripartite agreement. Thus while the US-
controlled stations maintain a high degree
of independence as local or regional media,
they now have practical experience in co-
operating with stations.of other occupying
powers.

USE OF MOTION PICTURES |

Still another vital media, ‘the: motion’ pic-
ture, has been redeveloped by MG to ‘serve
its own policies and to assist Germany in
rebuilding an important industry ‘in demo-
cratic form.

After the defeated German armies . laid
down their arms, MG film control officers
scrambled over the rubble of scores of cinema
houses throughout the US Zone to determine
which could be rehabilitated and utilized
immediately. By 31 December 1946, 856
movie houses were reopened and were oper-
ating in the Zone, Bremen Enclave, and US
Sector of Berlin. In Bavaria there are 364;
in Greater Hesse, 245; in Wuerttemberg-
Baden, 156; in Bremen Enclave, 31; and in
Berlin Sector, 60. ‘

As further assistance to the Germans in
resuming their own feature film production,
the first ten producers received licenses from
Military Government in November 1946. The
producers, some of whom were widely: known
in the pre-Hitler period, were carefully
screened to determine their political -relia-
bility and their professional standards..

As in other media, shortages were acute

35

and the full program of motion picture re-
orientation was handicapped. American fea-
ture films, however, have started to arrive
in Berlin in larger numbers and after months
of preparation, German-language synchro-
nization was begun at the Tempelhof Studios
in Berlin Sector. To cope with a chronic
shortage in film raw stock for domestic use,
production of this matorial was begun in
September 1946 through the combined ef-
forts of OMGUS Information Control, the
Chemical Section of Industry Branch, OM-
GUS Economics Division, Land Information
Control Divisions, and Land Chemical Sec-
tions of Bavaria and Hesse. While casting
film base has been manufactured in Frank-
furt, all of the film raw stock produced
domestically comes from the Munich plant.
Designed as an American undertaking, but
with the cooperation and support of the
other occupying powers, a documentary film
depicting the Nuremberg trials went into the
production stage in the fall of 1946. The
film will portray the proceedings before the
International” Military Tribunal, pertinent
scenes of aggressive warfare, atrocities, and
other Nazi crimes which led to the indictment
of ‘Nazi leaders and National Socialist or-
ganizations. Thus it will be a warning
against war and crimes against humanity.

PROPAGANDA FILMS BANNED

Although hundreds of captured German
films of a propaganda nature have been con-
fiscated, 200 others, produced before the
capitulation, were censorship-screened up to
31 December 1946. Of these 118 were ap-
proved for showing to German audiences as
having purely entertainment and educational
value,-and 75 were banned for containing
various forms of Propaganda or starring
Nazi actors.

One of OMGUS Film Control’s main mis-
sions is the production, in cooperation with
the British of a weekly newsreel, “Welt im
Film.” (The World in Film). This newsreel,
offering a balanced presentation of Amer-

--- Page 39 ---
ican, British, world, and German activities,
is distributed in the US and British Zones
and has won a high degree of‘popularity. It
is produced in the American siudios in Munich,

To assure the Germans of “liberty’in the
arts,” MG Theater-Music Control ‘Officers,
after ceaseless weeding-out of Nazi influences
and Nazi artists, embarked upon a program
of presenting both American and’ German
plays, most of which have been highly suc-
cessful in attendance and popularity, Amer-
ican plays have invariably received favorable
criticism in the German-licensed press and
from ‘audiences themselves. For example,
Abbott and Holm’s “Three Men on a Horse,”
has had approximately 150 performances up
to the close of 1946. Other US plays with
wide appeal are: “Thunder Rock,” “Skin of
Our Teeth,” “Gaslight,” “Men in White,”
“Family Portrait,” “Our ee and “On
Borrowed Time.”

THEATER ACTIVITY INCREASING -

As of 31 December there were 375 theater
licenses as compared with 244 on 30 June.
Registrations increased from 11,694 on
30 June, to 20,205 on 31 December. While
only three American plays were being pre-
sented as of 30 June, on 31 December, 14
were being shown in 48 German theaters in
Germany. Royalties from stage productions
totaled RM 134,000 at the end of the year
compared with RM 49,000 at the end of
June. On 3 July, the first national meeting
‘of the Genossenschaft Deutscher Buehnen-
angehoeriger (Actors’ Equity) was held at
‘Weimar (Soviet Zone of Germany). US
and Allied Theater and Music Officers and
German representatives of the US Zone at-
tended. Agreement at quadripartite level was
reached on the establishment of a Theater
Trade Court (Buéhnenschiedsgericht) com-
posed of one representative each of the
employers’ and employees organizations.
Military: Government on 25 October intro-
duced Theater and Music in the curriculum
of dolleges' and high schools.as an instfument
‘of re-education ‘and reorientation of German
youth,

Demonstrating to the Gernian ‘people’ that
musical art flourishes in the United States,
MG Music Control officers and their Getman
assistants have arranged for 128 performan-
ces of 45 representative chamber-music and
orchestral works by American composers in
the four occupation zones of Germany.
Americans whose works have been presented
include such names as Barber, Bernstein,
Bloch, Carter, Copland, Dello Joio, Diamond,
Gershwin, Griffes, Hanson, Ives, Loeffler,
McBride, Piston, Porter, Schumann, Sessions,
and Thompson. German . composers, whose
works are world renowned, likewise were
well represented in concert performances
throughout the zone.

Many conferences between the Allied
Music Control Officers have resulted in the
recognition by all four occupying powers
that music copyright laws must be respected
in Germany. Musical works are fully pro-
tected by copyright law in Germany, and
performance fees are automatically collected
be the German Performance Rights Society
(STAGMA) in all four zones of Germany.

MUSIC FOR GERMAN YOUTH

US Music Control Officers are exerting
every effort to bring musical works to Ger-
man youth to which they can listen with
increased enjoyment and understanding, and
in which they can actively participate. Spe-

-cial symphony concerts and similar. musical

programs for German youth are on the
increase. ‘

Military Government has granted licenses
to music publishers, orchestras, opera com-
panies, producers of musical performances,
and phonograph-recording manufacturers,
and has registered musicians, such as vo-
calists, instrumentalists, and teachers.

Throughout the whole field of Information
Control, Germans who applied for work in
any of its fields are carefully screened by
the Intelligence. Branch. -In addition, that
branch makes public opinion surveys, to give
Military Government an insight ‘into .the
thoughts and réaction of German citizenry
to MG directives, policies, and projects.

--- Page 40 ---
Newspapers Praise Marshall’s

Statement Rejecting Politics

The US press and radio unanimously wel-
comed Secretary of State Marshall's state-
ment that he “never can be considered a can-
didate for political office’ as immeasurably
strengthening his hand in continuing and
furthering US bi-partisan foreign policy.

They linked Marshall’s appointment and
his forthright statement as symbolic of the
non-political nature of US foreign policy.

Washington Post: “What this country
needs most is a foreign policy that does
not bear a partisan label but is national in
the finest and truest sense and has the sup-
port of both parties. Such a policy Marshall
would have been pursued in any case just as
it was pursued, with President Truman’s
complete support, by Secretary Byrnes and
is still being pursued by Senators Vanden-
berg and Connaly. But if the new Secretary
had not positively eliminated himself from
any political consideration, he would have
left himself open to the danger of having
every action interpreted in the light of the
1948 election. Thank Heaven, we are to be
spared that.”

St. Louis Globe-Democrat: “He alludes to
the secretaryship as non-political. Certainly
it is and must remain non-partisan. The
United States has successfully halted politics
at the water’s edge; Republicans and Dem-
ocrats support the American foreign policy.
That attitude must continue and be bul-
warded.”

Baltimore Sun: “In making his stand so
very clear and explicit he accomplishes sev-
eral things. First, he removes the last lin-
gering doubt as to the wisdom of his appoint-
ment. The tradition of this country, and it
is a good one, is not to mix military matters
and personalities with civilian politics. Mar-
shall makes it clear that he will not be a
party to any such mixture.

37

' policy is to remain bipartisan, or, as he would

that so far as he is concerned ow ei

doubtless prefer to say, ‘non-partisan’... .
Third, Marshall thus tells the world as well
that our foreign policy remains a national
rather than a partisan policy. The world
must know that when Marshall speaks he
speaks not for Republicans, nor for Demo-
crats, but for the nation.”

Cleveland Plain Dealer: “Marshall most
fittingly places the office of Secretary of
State, at this critical juncture in man’s quest
for lasting peace, above politics, beyond par-
tisanship. His straightforward utterance
raises higher the high hopes, yes, the virtual
certainly, that Marshall is the man under
whom will fructify the foreign policies so
ably formulated by his predecessor, James
F. Byrnes.”

Washington Evening Star: “The statement
is in keeping with Marshall’s character and
it is well that it has been made now. It clears
the air of discussion that could become as
embarrassing as interminable and which
would handicap him in the effective execu-
tion of his responsibilities. Aside from his
own qualification, Marshall’s appointment is
symbolic of the nonpolitical character of our
foreign policy and its administration.

“There is one contingency, of course . .
that would be the death of the President of
the United States, to whose office Marshall
would automatically succeed. Such an act of
God does not belong in the category of spec-
ulation to which referred.” :

Atomic Controls

With the postponement of the Security
Council’s consideration’ of General disarma-
ment and international atomic controls, sev-
eral US newspapers took the respite in the
official debate to review the situation as it
now stands in regard to atomic controls.

--- Page 41 ---
As they have many times before, the pa-
pers emphasized the tremendous responsibility
which UN delegates bear to evolve a truly
workable plan for ‘control of atomic power
for peaceful father than destructive purposes.
Some called on the Soviet Union to state more
clearly and specifically how it would have
atomie power controlled effectively, on a col-
lective basis.

The New York Times commented on a
plan, which it said had been suggested in
some British quarters, that an International
Atomic Authority, in which Big Power veto
would not be operative, should designate
punishment for violations of atomic conven-
tions, rather than the Security Council where
veto power is held by its permanent members.

Expressing doubt that this plan would in-
sure prompt, effective and veto-less punish-
ment for violators of any agreed international
atomic controls, The Times added:

“There are two more fundamental difficul-
ties in the British plan. First is that it would
establish in the United Nations two separate
authorities empowered to order member na-
tions to go to war, in one of which the vio-
lator of the convention could raise at least
doubt about legality of the other’s action, thus
sowing international confusion and blunting
the edge of whatever action might be ordered.
Second is that in order to do its work prop-
erly the atomic authority would have to
consist primarily of technical experts, and it
is at least questionable whether so grave and
so highly political a question as a declaration
of war should be entrusted to noh-political
technicians likely to be insensible to impon-
derables of the situation. The plan does not
even touch on the problem of how UN forces
are to be raised, organized and coordinated
without action by the Security Council, which
the UN Charter entrusts with that function.

“There is one final consideration. Protec-
tion of the world against an atomic holocaust
will be achieved not by finespun diplomatic
formulas or juggling of agencies, but by the
willingness and determination of all nations
to abide by the atomic law. That means re-
nunciation of all legal loopholes for evasion.

38

Until agreement on that point has been
reached, and until an effective international
control system is in operation, there is no
reason for the United States either to abandon
or to share its most potent weapon.”

San Francisco News: “Unless nations ac-
cept the right of international inspection with-
in their territories and surrender the right to
veto punishment of willful violators, treaties
on such subjects will offer no security.

“Russia, which first raised the cry of ‘atom
diplomacy’ against us, paradoxically became
the first nation to block action on plans for
internationalizing atomic energy. So now,
the familiar question is heard again: What
does the Soviet Union really want?

“Russians say they want a general dis-
armament program considered first, or at
Teast simultaneously with study of the
Atomic Control Plan, but if and when gen-
eral disarmament understanding approaches
the point of agreement, will they sign up,
or will they again demand prompt action
on some new subject, thus diverting atten-
tion from the case in point?

“. . . Exactly the same safeguards provid-
ed in the Atomic Control Plan must be in-
corporated in any general disarmament
agreement to which America becomes a
party, for the principles involved have almost
universal support in this country.”

Cininnati Enquirer, regarding the problem
as “a matter of tactics,” suggested that na-
tions might reach agreement sooner on dis-
armament phases other than atomic power.
It contented that the veto debate would be-
come meaningless if one of the major powers
violated its pledge not to manufacture
atomic bombs. In such event, collective
action would be taken veto or no, The En-
quirer maintained.

The Enquirer concluded: “We cannot af-
ford to yield any essential feature of the
Baruch Plan, which was fair and which in
the main already has been approved all
around. But we can well afford to give
some ground on details, when the alternative
may be to divide the world more sharply.”

--- Page 42 ---
MANPOWER DIVISION (Continued from page 13)

Branch helps coordinate pay schedules for
certain groups of employees whose work
cuts across zonal boundaries, such as that of
railroad and postal workers. It surveys the
wage structure in various industries and
localities, aiming to remove existing wage
inequalities and to stimulate essential peace-
time industries. It cooperates with other
divisions in forming a broad policy to fight
inflation and the black market. It makes
recommendations for introducing wage and
non-wage incentive systems to increase out-
put and promote industrial efficiency, and
it recommends new wage plans for attract-
ing apprentices to essential occupations.

The Standards Branch also carries out the
provisions of the Potsdam Agreement con-
cerning the German standard of living.
There are still other important fields in
which the Standards Branch has jurisdiction.
It watches over hours of work and working
conditions and guides protective labor legis-
lation, especially regulations regarding em-
ployment ‘of women, children, and home
labor. In the field of housing, the Standards
Branch tries to apportion space on the basis
of critical need, to make sure that Nazi dis-
crimination is eradicated, and to develop
standards for emergency repair.

The activities of the Labor Relations
Branch are focused on safeguarding and pro-
moting democratic principles in the forming
of trade union organizations and on the
developing of policies for the revision of
German Labor Law.

At the quadripartite level, the Labor Re-
lations Branch is responsible for a policy
check on the activities of work councils,
authorized by the Allied Control Authority
Law No. 22 of 10 April 1946; a policy check
on the activities of labor courts, authorized
by the ACA Law 21; and also a check on
conciliation and arbitration proceedings to
see what has been done to prevent and
smooth out labor disputes, authorized by the
ACA Law 35 on 20 August 1946.

German workers must be informed of their
rights and obligations under ACA laws, and

39

notices of these facts are posted in all estab-
lishments. Free democratic trade unions
and free collective bargaining are primary
goals of the Labor Relations Branch. Since
no quadripartite agreement has yet been
reached for the organization of German trade
unions, the Labor Relations Branch in en-
couraging such activities within the US Zone.
Numerous trade unions have already, been
formed on a Land level, and Landwide
federations of trade unions have been esta-
blished. The Labor Relations Branch also
has helped to arrange several interzonal
trade union conferences, although no formal
quadripartite action has yet been taken on
the holding of such meetings.

Planning programs for workers’ education
is another function of the Labor Relations
Branch. These projects are designed to
train competent trade union leaders, em-
ployee representatives on labor courts, and
arbitration panels. To a large extent, the
success of these educational programs —
particularly for younger workers — will
determine the strength and direction of the
labor movement in the future. And strong
labor movement can contribute greatly to the
reeducation of the German people in the
ways of democracy.

The Social Insurance Branch forms policies
on several types of insurance including
health insurance, workmen’s compensation,
unemployment, old age, and survivors’ in-
surance. Of first importance today is the
proposed compulsory social insurance law
for Germany. The Branch also has discussed
with the German authorities of the US Zone
the establishment of a temporary unemploy-
ment insurance system for 1947.

Proposed measures include an immediate
modification of miners’ insurance, eliminat-
ing the need for heavy state susidies; social
insurance for farmers, probably leaving it
to the individual Laender to decide whether
or not it shall be on a compulsory basis; and
assimilation of war pensioners into the social
insurance system. The last project provides
for definite standards under which former

--- Page 43 ---
war pensioners will receive social insurance
instead of military pensions.

Two aspects of the social insurance pro-
gram require special consideration: The social
insurance rights of expellees from other
countries, and the social insurance claims for
Allied nationals. At present, plans are being
drafted for expellees to be treated equally
with other Germans on the basis of rights
accumulated in the country from which they
were expelled. As for the insurance rights
of Allied nationals acquired while working
in Germany during the war, these accrue
from contributions paid under the German
social insurance system and are no longer
collectible. The German Land social insur-
ance authorities give priority treatment to
United Nations’ displaced persons and those
who were deprived of social insurance bene-
fits because of race, creed, nationality, pol-
itical opinion, or because of activities hostile
to the Nazi state.

It is the goal of the Social Insurance
Branch to establish. a uniform social security
system throughout Germany. In those in-
stances, however, where quadripartite agree-
ment is being delayed, Land governments
are permitted to take action, particularly in
eliminating Nazi principles and in operating
former national agencies on a Land basis.

All of the branches of the Manpower Di-
vision look to the Reports and Statistics
Branch for collecting and disseminating in-
formation and for giving them advice. Spe-
cifically, this Branch has four main func-

tions: To supply facts on conditions in the
manpower field including whether or not
MG policies are being carried out; to pro-
vide other Divisions of OMGUS with informa-
tion on manpower matters useful to their
work; to give labor and housing information
to responsible US agencies in the Zone; and
to inform the director and other branches
of the Manpower Division of new develop-
ments for use in quadripartite and bipartite
negotiations, and in carrying out MG ob-
jectives in the US Zone.

In, the field, the Reports and Statistic
Branch promotes uniformity of procedure
by inspecting and supervising German labor
statistical agencies at the Land and lower
levels. Its representatives attend conferences
of the Laenderrat Labor Supply and Labor
Statistical Committees, and it joins other
branches of the Manpower Division in con-
ducting field surveys and sample studies.
Briefly, the Branch serves as a central source
for information and as. an advisor .on all
labor problems in Germany.

As the reconstruction of the German econ-
omy. gains momentum, the role of the Man-
power Division as a whole probably will
increase in importance. The revival of pro-
duction and the increase of industrial ef-
ficiency are dependent upon the solution of
all problems under the jurisdiction of the
Manpower Division — adequate supply of
skilled labor, protection of the social status
of workers, and decent wage rates and work-
ing conditions.

Report on “Operation Spud”

US Army trucks between 4 November and
1 January transported sufficient German
potatoes to supply approximately 430,000
Germans for a period of six months at a
pound per person a day, and enough food to
provide 21/2 cubic meters for about 103,000
families for the entire winter.

The program, called “Operation Spud,”
was inaugurated by USFET to aid German
farmers to move potatoes, grain, firewood,

40

and general farm produce to central points
for distribution and consumption. Commodi-
ties were initially carried by German trans-
port to collecting points, and from there they
were transported by US Army vehicles.

Forty-six military communities made 20
percent of their general purpose trucks
available to Military Government, and the
use of such vehicles was limited to a radius
of 50 miles.