--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

ASS

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Assistance from US Sources to Civilian Agencies and Circular No. 185

Personnel

Individual Travel in the European Theater

Appendix A to “Extracts of Daily Bulletins” .

ACA Directive No. 40

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .

Populations Statistics for Germany

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .

Termination of Hostilities of World War Il

i

28 Dec 1946, USFET

Circular No. 188
31 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 461 (AG)
10 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (IC)
13 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 014.1 (SG)
14 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 091.4 (CA)
15 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 014.1 (SG)
16 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 387 (LD)

17 Jan 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Byers

RHENISH SHEEPHERDER — The picture on
this week's cover shows a German sheepherder
with his flock in a rural community near Karls-
ruhe, Wuerttemberg-Baden. The 1947 agricul-
fure plan which calls for a reduction in the
number of sheep in the US Zone will cut his
flock by 25 percent.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Richard G. Leonard, Senior Cartel Analyst for
the Decartelization Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS, wrote Decartelization: The Oil
Industry. The article describes the steps being
taken to break up monopolistic organizations
in the oil industry which were created under
the Nazi regime.

Border Police was prepared by the Public
Safety Branch, IA & C Division, OMGUS. It is
an account of the organization of the border
police force in the US Zone and its activity
since taking over patrol duties from the US
Army.

German Veterinary Laboratories was writ-
ten by Lt. Col. F, A. Todd, Chief of Veterinary
Affairs, Public Health Branch, IA & C Division,
OMGUS. Before joining Military Government,
Lt. Col. Todd served with the Veterinary Corps
in Iceland.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Border Police

Decartelization: The Oil Industry
German Veterinary Laboratories
Evaluation of the German Vote

Progress of Self-Government
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

--- Page 7 ---
_BORDE:

Pa POLICE

hen a country has borders across which

criminals and smugglers “begin to
operate it establishes some plan of border
protection. This was the situation — in more
dramatic form — when the US began oc-
cupying its zone of Germany. War crimes
suspects and all types of guilty persons were

fleeing; nazi war plunder, financial assets,
stolen art treasures, and other valuables were
being surreptitiously moved; black-market
goods and merchandise stolen from the US
Forces were changing hands from-one zone
to another. Under these conditions, the
creation of a border police force was im-
perative. :

Occupying troops first patrolled zonal
borders. But as the armed forces were reduc-
ed it became necessary to train Germans as
supplementary policemen — and eventually
they are expected to assume complete re-

A soldier from the 2nd Constabulary Squadron and
two German border policemen check the papers
of a civilian who is about to cross the Austrian
border at Griesen, Germany. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 8 ---
The Deputy Commissioner for the District of Garmish (left) confers with the
head of the German border police force that is guarding the Austrian border.

sponsibility for border control.

First use of Germans on this assignment
was made in Bavaria in October 1945, where
members of the newly-organized Rural Police
forces and a few special guard units were
watching the international border areas.
These men were to be used during the in-
terim period until a special border police
organization could be established.

PRESENT ORGANIZATION FORMED

On 17 October 1945, General Eisenhower,
then Military Governor, ordered the creation
of a border police force, and the Germans
immediately began to create the present or-
ganization. The border police units that
previously existed in Germany had been ab-
sorbed by the Nazis into the Secret State
Police (Gestapo) which has been declared il-
legal and disbanded, and its members either
arrested as war criminal suspects or prohibit-
ed from employment by MG denazifiication
directives. Therefore it was difficult to locate
trained or experienced men to create or staff
the organization.

Finally, in Bavaria, a former Bavarian
police official who had been ousted by the
Hitler regime because of his anti-nazi activi-
ties was found to head the new group. Over-

coming many difficulties\in recruiting suit-
able leaders and men, in finding uniforms
and equipment, and in providing transpor-
tation and communications facilities, the Ba-
varian Border Police — 1,200 strong — be-
came operational on 15 February 1946.

Simultaneously, in Land Greater Hesse,
a similar organization under the supervision
of a former German police official was estab-
lished with 600 policemen.

In Land Wuerttemberg-Baden, which had
a shorter zonal border to control and fewer
serious problems of illegal border traffic, the
responsibilities for policing were assigned to
the Land Rural. Police organization. .That
group was strengthened by adding about
450 men to perform the duties of . border
policemen, operating in much the same
manner as those of the other two Laender. |

US TROOPERS RELIEVED

‘On 1 March 1946, the border forces” of
the three’ Laender ‘relieved the US Army
troopers who had been performing all con-
trol duties around the perimeter’ of the’ US
Zone. While the Army continued to maintain
responsibility for security control of the
border, ‘the duties of actual patrol were‘as-
sumed by the German: police.’ The “Army

(Continued on page 23)

Signal Corps ‘Photo

--- Page 9 ---
he Arbeitsgemeinschaft Schmierstoft Ver-

teilung, GmbH (ASV), the wartime cartel
which had monopolized the sale of lubricat-
ing oils and greases in Germany, was dis-
solved on 31 December 1946 in compliance
with a British-American agreement on de-
cartelization. In place of the arbitrary and
restrictive controls which were exercised by
the ASV over the important lubricants busi-
ness, a new marketing scheme has been in-
stituted with the aim of opening the trade
to new dealers, eliminating the favored posi-
tion of ASV member companies (particularly
the larger. members), and promoting compet-
itive conditions, within the limitations of ex-
isting ration and price controls.

The new plan, which was drawn up by a
committee of Germans under British-Amer-
ican supervision, calls for channeling all re-
fined lubricants through a clearing house,

where all suppliers will receive oil stocks
according to the ration coupons or purchase
permits they turn in. This will aid in pre-
venting any one refinery from gaining a mo-
nopolistic position: Jobbers and_ retailers
will be free to buy from any supplier they
choose and must sell to all who present
ration coupons.

This cartel was only one of the. several
devices employed by the Nazis to gain
control of the German oil industry. Before
World War II, four companies, three foreign
and one German owned, occupied the dom-.
inant position in. German oil distribution.
These companies were: Deutsche Amerika-
nische Petroleum Gesellschaft, a subsidiary
of the Standard Oil Co. of N. J.; Rhenania-
Ossag Mineraloelwerke, a susidiary of the
Shell Group of London; the Benzin-Benzol
Verband, a syndicate controlled by coal and

--- Page 10 ---
THE

steel companies; and “OLEX” Deutsche Ben-
zin und Petroleum Gesellschaft, a subsidiary
of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Perhaps partly
because of this preponderance of foreign in-
terests in oil distribution in Germany, the
government organized a separate company to
acquire, store, and distribute oil to the Ger-
man Army and Air Force. This was the
Wirtschaftliche Forschungsgesellschaft m. b.
H., commonly known as WIFO. With the
rapid expansion of the activities of the Ger-
man Army, this company grew to be a truly
gigantic organization and by 1943 had assets
exceeding one billion RM, consisting prin-
cipally of bombproof depots, pipe lines, and
transport equipment. The activities of the
company were directed by the Ministry of
Economics, although as far as the public
knew the company managed all of its
business in its own name.

In addition to WIFO, the German govern-
ment during the war sponsored an oil com-
pany, known as Kontinentale Oel AG.,
which was organized to exploit the oil
resources of the occupied countries and to
engage in any and all related activities. Kon-
tinentale was capitalized at RM 80,000,000
with 40 percent of the capital subscribed to
by the purely German oil companies and the
remaining 60 percent financed by German
banking houses.

SUBSIDIARIES FORMED

To . facilitate its announced program
of exploitation, subsidiaries were formed
by Kontinentale in the various occupied
countries, These subsidiaries, by 1934,
numbered 23. Kontinentale in its role
of a holding company advised these sub-
sidiaries on economic, legal, and tax matters
and financed them. It also organized a
central purchasing department for the pur-
pose of buying and storing necessary
material and supplies. The Reich established
a Supervisory Board, which was headed by
Walter Funk, former Reichsminister of
Economics, to control the management of
Kontinentale.

At the outbreak of the war, the German

Abandoned oil storage tanks af a refinery in
Berlin which was blasted by Allied bombs.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 11 ---
government introduced still another program
for controlling the oil industry. This was
the compulsory creation, from among the
various oil marketing companies operating
in Germany, of trade associations or cartels
to distribute the petroleum products required
for civilian and industrial consumption. The
announced purpose of these cartels was to
conserve shipping, storage space, and per-
sonnel. Each association was decreed by law
and membership was compulsory for those
companies marketing the particular product.

ABSOLUTE CONTROL OBTAINED

All of these associations came under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economics,
which, with WIFO and Kontinentale already
under its sponsorship, thus obtained absolute
control of oil distribution for every purpose
throughouj occupied Europe. As a matter of
course the same personalities assumed the
guidance of each of these organizations. The
first of these cartels to be formed was the
“Zentralebiiro fiir Mineraloel” which took
over the distribution of liquid motor fuels.
By 1943, six additional associations had been
formed to rationalize the distribution of the
other primary petroleum products, such as
lubricants, kerosene, naphthas, and asphalts.
Each of these associations followed the same
pattern, which was to requisition from the
members whatever facilities and personnel
were considered necessary and then to
distribute the sales proceeds among the
participating companies, in relation to the
share of the market for the particular prod-
ucts each held during the last six months of
1938 and the first six months of 1939.

Besides cartelizing distribution, the Min-
istry of Armaments and War Production,
through the Ministry of Economics, took
similar steps upon the outbreak of the war
to consolidate crude oil production and
refining and synthetic oil production. This
was done through the establishment of an
association or cartel of refiners known as
Arbeitsgemeinschaft Erdoel-Gewinnung und
Verteilung (AEV), membership in which
was also compulsory. This association set up
refinery programs and allocated crude pro-

duction; similar machinery regulated syn-
thetic production.

Until the Nazis seized power in Germany,
the oil industry was not of primary im-
portance either in point of employment of
labor or in the production of vital raw
materials. German crude oil production was
limited and never met more than about one-
tenth of the country’s oil requirements,
which in 1933 amounted to some 3'/2 million
metric tons; the remainder had to be import-
ed, and of these imports only one-quarter
needed further processing.

The rapid rearmament program and the
parallel program of self-sufficiency on which
the Nazis immediately embarked required
constantly greater supplies of petroleum to
satisfy the rapidly increasing industrial
tempo and the mechanization of the armed
forces. Within five years the consumption of
petroleum products had doubled. This
increase intensified the problem of remedy-
ing Germany’s dependence on imports. Two
solutions were attempted. One immediate
means of increasing home production was to
encourage the production of German crude
oil, and to this end in 1933 drilling subsidies
were paid to producing companies. The pro-
duction of German crude oil increased nearly
300 percent from 1933 to 1941, but it still
could provide only a small part of require-
ments. A second means was to promote the
use of substitute fuels derived from sources
other than petroleum. ‘These included
alcohol, benzol, producer gas, and bottled
gases. This led to the development of the
synthetic oil industry.

SYNTHETIC OIL PRODUCTION

In 1933, the production of oil synthetically
from coal was already in commercial ex-
ploitation at Leuna under the auspices of
LG. Farbenindustrie A.G., and a second
process sponsored by an association of Ruhr
coal mine owners through Ruhrchemie A.G.
was reaching the stage at which production
on a commercial scale might be expected in
the near future. An immense amount of
industrial and scientific effort was devoted
to the development and perfection of these

(Continued on page 24)

--- Page 12 ---
7 LABORATORI ES:

Do working to maintain public health
in postwar Germany have allies in
another branch of the medical profession:
the veterinarians. These experts in animal
health are finding their daily job connected
more closely than ever with human welfare.

The German veterinary service, short of
experienced men, short of tools, is carrying
on toward two main objectives: to prevent
loss of livestock, needed critically on every
farm; and to protect consumers of meat and
dairy foods—which means almost the entire
population of war-weakened Germany.

Simply doing day-to-day work — routine
examination of animals and food inspections
— would keep today’s veterinarians busy.
But in addition their job is complicated by
an ominous development: several animal
diseases which were absent from Germany
for years have begun to reappear.

The problem is one that would have taxed

the facilities of even the much more prosper-
ous prewar veterinary: network. In those
days, the German veterinary administration
was based on the staffs. at. the upper four
levels of government—national (Reich), state
(Land), district (Regierungsbezirk), and
county (Kreis). ,

But bombs fell, and so did the Nazihierarchy.
Of all the veterinary laboratories in the US
Zone, only one escaped’ major war dam-
age. Secondly, some of the best technicians
either were killed or were such devoted fol-
lowers of Hitler that they were useless to the
new democratic regime. After Germany’s’
defeat, however, the need for maintaining at
least a basic veterinary service was obvious.
So laboratories received emergency repairs,
and new men received emergency training.
In smaller processing houses or in villages
where a licensed butcher does his own
slaughtering, the meat is inspected by a

--- Page 13 ---
specially trained lay inspector of the Kreis
veterinary service who takes samples of meat
for eximination at the State Veterinary
Laboratory.

Germans have always been fond of raw
pork and beef products. A typical delicacy
is chopped raw pork mixed with slivers of
onion. This gastronomic practice calls for
rigid meat inspection. All large slaughter-
houses are equipped with laboratories where
bacteriological examinations are made of car-
casses which appear abnormal. The men
with microscopes keep special watch for
trichina in pork and tapeworms in beef.

QUALITIES OF MEAT

Unsafe food may not be sold. Neither, in
a nation of rationcard holders, must food
be wasted. During inspection, each side of
beef or joint of pork is graded. First-quality
meat is sold on the regular market. Inferior
grades are placed on the “Freibank,” and
are sold to the public with the warning that
they must be thoroughly cooked. Most of
this lower-grade meat is a regular item on
German tables today, because it requires
fewer ration points and is less expensive.

Scarcity has forced Germans to turn more
to special sources of food — much as Amer-
ican homemakers during the war scanned
recipe books to learn how to prepare venison
and rabbit. In Germany, the law requiring
meat inspection covers all wild life destined
to become’ steaks — including dogs, wild
boars, bears, foxes, badgers, “and other car-
nivorous animals.”

SEVERAL DISEASES REAPPEARING

Mere existence of a law, unfortunately,
does not kill bacteria. Veterinary officials are
concerned by the reappearance of several
diseases which Germany has not known for
years. Glanders (appearing in human beings
as ulcers of the skin, pulmonary inflam-
mation, and intestinal infection) and dourine
(a syphilis-like disease in horses) have been
reported here and there throughout the coun-
try. These diseases, experts say, were intro-
duced towards the end of the war and in the
immediate post-war period. Tuberculosis,

10

too, as well as Bang’s disease (in human
beings, undulant fever) has inceased in in-
cidence during the war years. German vet-
erinarians are doing what they can. Horses
and livestock are being tested over wide areas
of the countryside, and special watch is kept
for new outbreaks.

The fight against disease at present is
mostly an effort at control, as very little new
research in veterinary medicine is being done
in Germany today. The few current projects
are financed by the Land governments them-
selves. Formerly, both the veterinary and
agricultural colleges provided laboratories
for such studies. In 1939, Germany had 11
national institutes, 10 universities with veter-
inary laboratories for investigational work,
and several privately-owned organizations.

Necessary veterinary biologicals (sera and .
vaccine) for the treatment of animal diseases
in Germany usually were produced by sever-
al large private institutes including I. G.
Farben. Their materials were distributed to
practitioners by means of widely-spread,
conveniently-located supply establishments.
Several veterinary colleges and state veteri-
nary laboratories sold limited quantities of
biologicals, the proceeds paying some of their
administrative expenses.

AID BY MG VETERINARIANS

Counterbalancing somewhat the temporary
decline of German research, Military Govern-
ment veterinary officers have helped as much
as they were able. They introduced into Ger-
many a potent aid in the control of hog
cholera — crystal violet vaccine. This product
now is being prepared in Bavaria as is an
effective vaccine for control of fowl plague
(Huehnerpest), prevalent in southeastern
Bavaria. The latter remedy is manufactured
by growing the virus on chick embryo.

Detection and prevention of disease are
a joint service of Germany’s veterinary labor-
atories. Four types of veterinary labora-
tories each carry out a part. of the disease
control program: research, biological produc-
tion, slaughterhouse, and state laboratories.
the central agency helps make up for scar-
city of trained personnel. The responsibility

(Continued on page 26)

--- Page 14 ---
valuation

by Hans A. Kallmann

MM attempts have been made to com-
pare the most recent election figures in
Germany with those of the pre-Hitler years.
However, statisticians have, pointed out that
such comparisons can be dangerous and mis-
leading; and that, at best, a correct analysis
shows a very complicated picture.

The most important fact is that in Ger-
many absolute election figures of different
years are not truly comparable. The make-
up of the population has changed to a great
extent. The former natural population in-
crease has now been reversed by the war
through millions of deaths and millions of
prisoners of war who have not been returned
to their homes. Germany’s population as a
whole has been cut by the loss of the regions
east of the Oder; yet the parts of Germany
that are left may show an increase in popula-
tion through the influx of expellees and
refugees. These factors, however, can be
partly eliminated by comparing percentages.

The problem becomes more complicated if
certain sections of the country, such as
districts, Laender, or even cities, are com-
pared with previous years. Berlin is such a
case. The present electoral region of Greater
Berlin belonged to three different voting
districts in the former Reichstag and Land-

11

ore

tag elections — Berlin, Potsdam I, and Pots-
dam II. There were, of course, municipal
elections for the whole of Greater Berlin, but
in comparison to the recent elections such
community elections aroused relatively little
interest and showed a more limited participa-
tion of voters. They should, therefore, not
be taken as a basis of comparison. Similar
problems apply to regions like Wuerttem-
berg and Baden, which are not voting
districts any longer, but are divided between
two occupational zones.

STRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENTS

Changes in population are not only
changes in size but also changes in structure.
This fact in itself is nothing new or special.
There are structural developments in popula-
tions everywhere. The industrial population
in a certain section may grow and with it the.
labor vote may increase. But such changes
are normally gradual ones. Within the short
periods between elections they are too small
in degree to make a direct comaprison be-
tween the election results of different years a
special problem. In the Germany of today,
changes of this type have been so rapid and
so large that a comparison would be mislead-
ing unless accompanied by a special analysis.
For instance, regardless of the fact that the

--- Page 15 ---
number of voters in Berlin has dropped by
about a million since 1933, on the basis of
previous elections the Socialist and non-
Socialist parties must have been expected,
numerically, to poll about an equal number
of votes. If, however, the assumption was
made that this one million drop had been at
the cost of the non-Socialist parties (because
a great number of well-to-do people and of-
ficials left Berlin during the war and before
the Soviet conquest) then the Berlin elections
might have been expected to return a leftist
majority of between 65 and 70 percent.

INCREASE OF WOMEN VOTERS

Another change, much more important
than the example mentioned above, is the
relative increase of female voters and the
decrease of male voters caused by war losses
and, for the time being, by the retention of
POW’s. In pre-Hitler’ years tests showed
that comparatively more women than men
favored the moderate parties, and that more
men followed the extremists of both wings,
the Communist and the Nazis. It is also
known that the influence of the churches
tends to be more wide spread among women
than among men. Must we conclude from
this that at the present time the moderate
parties of the center, and a party with
church connections like the CDU, have a
better chance than under the’ Weimar Re-
public?

The answer is not easy. The reason for
the. more-moderate attitude. of women voters
in former times could be found in their more
“conservative” tendencies, “conservative”
meaning an opposition to. radical. change.
One would have to find out what ‘‘conserva-
tive tendencies” mean. today. It may mean
something different: for example, the ‘“‘con-
servation” of certain characteristics. of the
long years under Hitler, such as nationalism.
It.is.also likely that women and men have
not quite the same attitude towards the
various Occupation Powers.

- There will be other structural changes
still to come which will greatly influence the
attitude of German voters. Nothing more
than indications can be given. here, and all

12

of them fall under the category of economic
changes. There will be fewer rich people
and many more poor people than before;
fewer skilled workers and probably fewer
professional workers, but more unskilled or
semi-skilled labor, if the present restrictions
on German industry are going to stay. Will
that mean an inevitable increase in the so-
cialist vote? What will become of the vote
of the middle classes which once before
revolted against their increasing impoverish-
ment, and thus paved the way for the Nazis
to gain power?

If the number of votes now gained by any
particular party is compared with the number
of votes polled more than a decade ago, one
most important difference has to be borne in
mind: prior to 1933 complete freedom of
voting existed, in the sense that, if many
voters were not satisfied by one of the old
parties, they could found’a new one. Today,
sucha tendency: in practice hardly exists. If
we do not consider the minor groups, the
voters have the choice of four main parties:
LDP (with DVP and FDP); CDU (and
CSU); SPD; and KPD or SED. In the Soviet
Zone, there is only a choice of three, because
the SPD is not recognized there.

TEMPORARY EXPEDIENT

In Berlin the SPD vote has increased from
its highest level of approximately 33 percent
in. 1928 to approximately 49 percent at the
present time. Normally, that would mean
that the percentage of “Social-Democrats”
was that much larger. But that is probably
not the case now. It is obvious that a great
number of people in Berlin voted SPD to
express their opposition to Communism. In
other words, a great but undetermined num-
ber of persons voted SPD as.a temporary ex-
pedient, without any intention of remaining
in the party or becoming Socialists. In ‘this
example, we can roughly analyze what has
happened and are, therefore, not too: much
misled by the election returns.

But what of the Soviet Zone? No SPD is
authorized there, and all the other parties
are certain to have drawn voters who would
otherwise have cast their ballots for SPD.

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 16 ---
Progress of Self-Government

‘Deputy Military Governor Reviews Record of Past Year, Lists Future

Responsibilities of Elected German Officials in Laenderrat Speech

he future responsibilities of the demo-

cratically elected German state officials
in the US Zone and their relationship with
Military Government were outlined by Lt.
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Military Gover-
nor, in his address to the Laenderrat at Stutt-
gart on 8 January. In his address he said:

In the United States it is our custom at
the beginning of a New Year to look back at
the work of the past year so that we may
profit from our experience to establish an
even higher goal for the year ahead. I am
sure that the Laenderrat, in looking back
over the past year, may take satisfaction in
many accomplishments. However, I am
equally sure that the year ahead offers the
opportunity for even greater accomplishment
in the progress of self-government and in
improving the German economy.

This meeting, the first of the New Year, is
another landmark in the progress of German
government under democratic procedures.
The return of government responsibility to
the German people was started at the village,
in the local elections held throughout the
US Zone in January 1946. Systematically
since then city, county, and state elections
have been held. Today, the first meeting of
the New Year, is also the first meeting in
which the Laenderrat is composed of rep-
resentatives selected by the elected Parlia-
ments of the three states of the American
Zone.

I would be remiss at this time if I did not
express my appreciation of the work which
has been accomplished during the past year
under the three Ministers-President appoint-
ed by Military Government. Manifestly, they
have had to cooperate with Military Govern-
ments. However, they have been steadfast to
what they considered the best interests of the
German people and have presented their
views with courage and with obvious

13

sincerity. Their work has contributed much
to progress during the past difficult year.

However, Military Government welcomes
the Laenderrat as it is now formed of rep-
resentatives selected by the German people.
It recognizes the responsibility which each
Minister-President has to his state Parlia-
ment, This responsibility may necessitate
some changes in the procedural functioning
of the Laenderrat although not in the general
purpose for which it was established.

Military Government, in approving the
constitutions adopted by the three states in
its zone, stated that it would not interfere
with the state governments established under
these constitutions as long as they are con-
ducted to accord with our basic objectives.
At the same time, Military Government
pointed out the necessity for it to continue
its responsibility for national legislation until
some type and form of German national
government comes into existance.

The rights of the states are clearly defined
in the state constitutions. However, although
these constitutions provide for the requisite
ceding of state power to a national or federal
government, the exact powers which will be
so ceded have not and cannot be formulated
until a constitutional convention or congress
has developed the final form of national
government. :

The Potsdam Protocol did provide for the
establishment of central administrative
agencies for communications, transportation,
finance, industry, trade and commerce; and
subsequently, American Military Government
has announced its support of a central ad-
ministrative agency for food and agriculture.

While these agencies have not yet mater-
ialized for Germany as a whole, they have
been established in the American and British
Zones as a result of their economic fusion.

Each of the states in the American Zone is

--- Page 17 ---
represented by a responsible state official on
the established bizonal agencies, and each,
therefore, has an appropriate voice in the
determination of over-all policy. Obviously,
in these fields, it will no longer be necessary
for the Laenderrat to exercise direct re-
sponsibility, although Military Government
favors a continuing interchange of views in
the Laenderrat. However, when the bizonal
agencies have reached agreement, it is ex-
pected that these agreements will be executed
in good faith in all of the states and each
Minister-President is granted the authority
of Military Government and will have the
responsibility for such execution.

EXECUTION OF BIZONAL POLICIES

Military Government will not permit the
bizonal agencies to assume state responsibil-
ities and will insist that the responsibility
for the execution of bizonal policies remains
with state government. Military Government
decrees will be utilized only in the last
instance when and if a minority of the states
proves unwilling to execute bizonal policy
as determined by the bizonal agencies.

However, it is clear that there will
be other matters in which uniformity is
desirable throughout Germany if possible,
and throughout the US Zone of occupation in
any event. I refer to such matters as restitu-
tion, social insurance, financial reform,
decartelization, and similar measures, which
can be successful only if applied uniformly.
It will continue to be the policy of Military
Government to consult with the Laenderrat
to the fullest extent possible in the prepara-
tion of quadripartite legislation. When such
legislation is enacted, it must be issued by
Military Government decree or ordinance
for application in each of the states. When
possible, supplementing regulations will be
left to state administrations.

If uniform legislation which cannot be
obtained by quadripartite agreement -is
required for measures in the US Zone of oc-
cupation, Military Government will continue
to ask the Laenderrat to prepare such legisla-
tion for the approval of Military Govern-
ment. Legislation of this type may be issued

14

in each state by the Minister-President
through the exercise of powers specifically
granted by Military Government, or, if the
Laenderrat prefers, in specific cases as ordi-
nances of Military Government.

I wish that I could give you a clear-cut
formula which would distingiush between
the character of legislation to be enacted by
the Laenderrat and the character of legisla-
tion to be enacted by the state Parliaments.
Unfortunately, such a formula cannot be
clearly defined now and will prove difficult
to develop in practice in the absence of a
national constitution.

However, I assure you that it is our policy
to maintain a high degree of local responsi-
bility and to hold national legislation to the
essential minimum. Therefore, we shall
avoid uniform legislation unless it is clear
that uniformity is essential to succesful ap-
plication. Each law presented to the Laen-
derrat for consideration or proposed by the
Laenderrat will be examined with this in mind.

POSITION OF STATE LEGISLATION

It is equally clear, that state legislation must
not extend into the field of nor conflict with
national legislation. Hence it is equally im-
portant that state legislation be confined to
state matters, and state legislation must be
examined prior to its formal approval by
Military Government to make sure that it
does not conflict with quadripartite measures
either enacted or under consideration, or
with uniform measures adopted in the
American Zone. Likewise, we shall expect
the Laenderrat to examine such matters to
place your views before Military Govern-
ment with respect to possible impingement
of state legislation upon national legislation,
and with respect to national or zonal legisla-
tion encroaching upon state legislation.

It would also seem to me that as Minister-
President of the state which you represent,
you may frequently desire to interchange
views with other Ministers-President in the
Laenderrat in the interests of close coordina-
tion. This is your privilege. However, what
you do in this field is your own responsibility
and will not require consideration or ap-

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 18 ---
Denazification Law Amended

Regulations, further limiting the “ordinary
labor” to which “major offenders” and
“offenders” will be restricted for certain
periods of time after conviction under the
Law for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism, have been adopted by the
Denazification Committee of the Laenderrat
with the approval of OMGUS.

The new regulations, amending Article 63
of the Denazification Law, would preclude
“major offenders” and “offenders” from any
employment that would give them “any
authority over the public”; would bar them
from any job contributing to “the molding of
public opinion”, and would specifically pre-
vent them from practicing in “one of the
free professions, as a professional engineer,
or in the educational profession.”

Under the law “major offenders” are re-
stricted to “ordinary labor” for a period of
not less than 10 years. “Offenders” are so
limited for a period of not less than five
years.

Article 63 of the law states: “An occupa-
.tion shall be considered ordinary labor ac-
cording to this law insofar as skilled or un-
skilled work or an employment of subordi-
nate importance is concerned. The person
concerned shall not be employed in a super-
vising, leading or organizing position or take
part in hiring and firing personnel, or any
other personnel policy.”

The new regulation adopted by the Laen-
derrat Committee; signed by the Ministers
for Political Liberation of Bavaria, Hesse,
and Wuerttemberg-Baden, and approved by
the OMGUS Denazification Legal Officer,
states:

1. In addition to the standards set forth
in Article 63 of the Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism with re-
spect to the meaning of the term “ordinary
labor,” an employment or activity shall not
be. considered to be “ordinary labor:”

15

If the nature of the employment or
type of activity engaged in conf
authority over the public;

If the employment or activity engaged in
is of a nature to permit the exercise of any
influence by the employee with respect to in-
formation (press, radio, etc.) or the moulding
of public opinion;

If the employment or activity engaged in
is in one of the free professions, as a profes-
sional engineer, or the educational profession.

2. In cases of doubt as to whether an em-
ployment or activity is to be considered as
ordinary labor, the respective ministry in
cooperation with the Ministry of Political
Liberation shall decide in cases involving
public employment. In all other cases, the
decision shall rest with the Landesarbeitsamt
(State Labor Office). The decision of the
Landesarbeitsamt is subject to review by the
Ministry of Political Liberation. In cases of
zonal agencies, the highest zonal agency shall
decide in cooperation with the Denazification
Committee of the Laenderrat.

Interzonal Trade Agreement

A new trade agreement, involving such
critically important raw materials as steel,
chemicals, brown coal briquettes, and food-
stuffs, was reached on January 17 by Ger-
man economic officials representing the Ger-
man Bizonal Executive Committee of the US-
British Zones and the German Department of
Trade and Interzonal Traffic of the Soviet
Zone. Under the terms of the resolutions
adopted at the meeting the US-British
organization and the Soviet organization
will each furnish materials worth 210 million
Reichsmarks for trade with the other.

Trade during the first quarter of 1947
will total approximately 15 million RM on
each side and 90 million RM during the last
three quarters of the year. In the first
quarter of this year the US-British Zones
will deliver iron and steel, rolling mill prod-
ucts, tubes and tires, rubber conveyor belts,

--- Page 19 ---
and a substitute for parchment paper; ad-
ditional items to be delivered in the second,
third, and fourth quarters of 1947 include
pig iron, hops, motors, livestock, dyes,
pharmaceuticals, and chemicals.

The Soviet Zone, in the first quarter of
the year, will export wheat, rye, oats, brown
coal briquettes, pit props, chemical pulp,
newsprint, cord for tires, technical paper,
and buna; and in the last nine months of
1947, in addition to most of these, seeds,
buna, agents for sizing yarn, cement and
window glass, sugar, potatoes, spare machine
parts, and chemicals.

Supplies for Youth Program

The German youth program will continue
in the US Zone with the bulk of its supplies
coming from captured enemy stocks and
current German production. Army excess
materials, which have formed much of the
supplies for the program since its inception,
are now in very low stock and will be as-
signed on a priority basis, with most of the
supplies going to the programs designed for
DP youth.

Although some difficulty may be antic-
ipated in inducing German government
officials to recognize the full value of youth
activities and the need for adequate economic
support, there is no reason why the pro-
gram should not continue its progress in
the reeducation and democratization of Ger-
man youth, in the opinion of OMGUS
education officials. MG will continue to
give assistance and exercise supervision
until it is convinced that the program is
operating in a fully self-sufficient and
satisfactory manner.

Education and Religious Affairs Branch,
OMGUS, plans to request the War Depart-
ment to call a conference in Washington of
the principal American youth-serving or-
ganizations to draw plans for a new pro-
gram which would call for voluntary
cooperation with CRALOG (Council of
Relief Agencies Licensed to Operate in
Germany) in rendering material assistance
to German youth groups. A sub-committee

16

of the German Control Committee would be
set up to allocate and distribute such
material aid to the most needy groups.

MG Denazification Policy

Public Safety Branch, Internal Affairs
and Communications Division, OMGUS,
issued the following statement to clarify MG
denazification policy as concerns the release
of German prisoners and internees:

All Germans released from US prisoner of
war camps and civilian internment enclo-
sures are subject to investigation and trial
under the Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism. Members of the
SA and high governmental officials now in
a civilian internment status and members of
the former German General Staff Corps and
Reichskabinett will be transferred to Ger-
man custody but will not be released by
German officials until they have been tried
by denazification tribunals.

It has never been, nor is it now, the policy
of Military Government to shield from de-
nazification proceedings those persons who,
according to this law, are liable to such
proceedings. The law calls upon the German
people to exclude from influence in public,
economic, and cultural life all those who
actively supported the National Socialist-
tyranny or are found guilty of having
violated the principles of justice and hu-
manity, or of having selfishly exploited the
conditions created by this tyranny. It is
the policy of Military Government to assist
the German people in every possible way in
the fulfillment of this duty, and at the same
time to maintain the degree of supervision
considered necessary and expedient to the
overall aims of the occupation.

Trial of a person by Military Government
or German courts on charges of war crimes
or other crimes does not, under the Law
for Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism, preclude the liability of the Ger-
man people to ‘try that person under
denazification proceedings.

Military Government does not intend to
deviate from this policy.

--- Page 20 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

‘In response to a request from the Swiss
Postal Administration, the ACA has authoriz-
ed the inauguration of one-way airmail
service from Switzerland to Germany. This
service will include all types of mail pres-
ently authorized in the international mails.
Actual implementation of flights is depend-
ent on transportation arrangements to be
made by the Swiss Government.

A delegation representing the Joint Ex-
port-Import Agency ((US-UK) as well as
the Economic, Commerce, Political, Finance,
Food and Agriculture, and Transport
Divisions and Branches of OMGUS and the
Control Commission for Germany (British
Element), are currently engaged in trade
discussions with the Netherlands Govern-
ment at the Hague.

The Laenderrat Directorate has approved
regulations according to which expellee
status will expire when an expellee has
found permanent residence and employment
and has reached a standard of living com-
parable to that of the native population.

DENAZIFICATION PROCEEDINGS

As of 1 December, the Denazification Tri-
bunals in Bavaria had handled cases of
2,522 doctors, 2,340 elementary
teachers, and 1,501 teachers in high schools
and universities. Cases were pending against
15,765 elementary school teachers and 3,621
teachers of high schools and universities.

For the two-week period ending 15 Jan-
uary, the crime rate rose in Hesse and
Bavaria and generally decreased in Wuert-
temberg-Baden.

During the first eleven days of January,
133,400 metric tons of food for German
civilians arrived from the United States.

About 12,000 bottles of Schnapps are
being released monthly for coal miners under
the US Zone’s incentive program, in quan-
tities ranging from one-quarter liter per
month for moderately heavy workers to
three-quarters liter (one bottle) for very

school '

17

heavy workers. 375,000 bottles of wine and
175,000 bottles of champagne, all below ex-
port quality, were released for civilian
consumption in the US Zone and for inter-
zonal trade during January.

The release of 2,000 tons of imported
dehydrated potatoes to Wuerttemberg-Baden
has been authorized to meet the deficit in the
potato ration for the 97th and subsequent
ration periods. Approximately 4,000 tons of
fresh potatoes from Army stocks are being
transferred to German authorities in the US
Zone to replace potatoes previously furnish-
ed to the occupation forces from the German
economy.

USFET RELEASES TIRES

An additional 80,000 tires have been
released by USFET to the German transport
economy.

During the first two weeks of January,
navigation on the Danube river was com-
pletely suspended because of ice and low
water, and the Rhine river was at its lowest
point in 25 years.

The German Reichsbahn has been allocated
153,000 cubic meters of coniferous and 28,000
cubic meters of hardwood lumber, its first
definite allocation. Allocation of 28,000 cubic
meters of lumber was also made to the
Fishery Control Board for barrels, repair of
fishing vessels, and related purposes.

CHEMICAL PRODUCTION HIT

Lack of power and sub-zero temperatures
hit chemical operations hard in the two
weeks ending 11 January. Cyanamid pro-
duction was practically at a standstill. As
compared with December, the output of
acetic acid and solvents was down more than
80 percent; there were also sizable declines
in insecticides (53 percent) and dye inter-
mediates (57 percent). Plants producing tires,
tubes, and general rubber goods were slowly
returning to production, following _ their
forced shutdown over the holidays.

--- Page 21 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

New Leave Policy

OMGUS Letter AG 210.711 (PO), entitled
“New War Department Leave Policy,” dated
13 January 1947, calls attention to USFET
Letter of 14 December 1946 on the same
subject. The OMGUS letter states in part:

“It is desired to stress par 1, sec II, there-
of, which states that it is the right of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces to take leaves,
rather than a privilege as heretofore. All
concerned are advised that immediate steps
should be taken to determine in each di-
vision, branch, etc., whether individuals
assigned to those offices (both military and
civilian) desire to take leave prior to 30 June
1947 and to schedule such leaves, if neces-
sary, so that the limitation of 10 percent of
the personnel on leave at one time will not
operate to deny leave to any individual and
probably cause a loss of leave time to him.”

Historical Program

MG’s part in the preparation of a history
of the US Army Forces of Occupation for
the War Department is clarified in USFET
Directive “Historical Program of the US
Forces, European Theater,” AG 314.7 HIS-
AGO, dated 31 December 1946. The part
of the directive pertaining to MG states:

“The Office of Military Government for
Germany (US) and the US Allied Council
in Austria and all offices, divisions and
other agencies integral or subordinate to
them, are not required to submit Reports of
Operations. Nothing in this letter will be
interpreted as modifying in any way the
current requirements for reporting in Mil-
itary Government channels, except as stated
in this paragraph.

“The War Department has directed that

18

the History of the Occupation will include
a history of Military Government under the
US Army in Germany. The history of
Military Government in Germany will be
prepared by the Office of Military Govern-
ment for Germany (US). This history will
be supported by a series of studies of
Military Government in Austria prepared
by the Historical Division, this headquarters,
based on material provided by the US
Allied Council in Austria. Two copies of
each history of Military Government in Ger-
many (US) will be submitted thorugh com-
mand channels, to the Chief, Historical
Division, this headquarters.”

ACA Directive No. 40

A clarification of MG policy in interpret-
ing ACA Directive No. 40, concerning the
Policy to be followed by German politicians
and the German press, is contained in
OMGUS Letter AG 010.6 (IC) dated 13
January 1947, which changes OMGUS
Letter AG 000.7 (IC) dated 24 October
1946. The new interpretation states in part:

“Reports of violations (of ACA Directive
No. 40) will be channelled through Infor-
mation Control in cases involving German
information services and Civil Administra-
tion Division in cases involving members of
German political parties. Prosecutions
envisaged under this paragraph will be
undertaken only after consultation with
(OMGUS).

“Prosecution by a Military Government
Court will be requested only if other sanctions
(reprimand, suspension, prohibition of ac-
tivity, etc.) are considered inadequate.”

German Dependants

Answers to some of the problems expected
to arise as the result of marriage between
Germans and Americans in the European
Theater are presented in USFET Directive
AG 014.2, entitled “Policies with Respect
to German Dependents,” dated 6 January
1947.

--- Page 22 ---
Licensed Press Views Byrnes’

Resignation with Apprehension

The resignation of James F. Byrnes as
US Secretary of State because of poor health
was described as a surprise and viewed with
apprehension by many of the licensed Ger-
man newspapers in the US Zone, according
to the editorial analysis by the Office of the
Director of Information Control, OMGUS.
However, the press had little comment on
the appointment of General George C. Mar-
shall as his successor, mainly because the
German editors were not familiar with his
record.

“The resignation of Byrnes came as a
painful surprise to us,” said the Mittel-
bayerische Zeitung (Regensburg). “Since his
wise speech in Stuttgart we have counted
him among the foremost friends of Germany
and again in our comments on the new year
we wrote that we placed all our confidence
on that September speech of the American
Secretary of State when the important de-
cision on the future peace treaty with Ger-
many came up. ...He proved in his Stutt-
gart speech that he was intimately familiar
with German questions and worries and so
could be a good advocate of our vital prob-
lems. Now we place our hope in his suc-
cessor who has often proved that he is a
man of energy and vision.”

The Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
said, “The sudden shift in the American
State Department comes as a complete
surprise.... General Marshall is a per-
sonality whom we hardly know; a successful
officer, who played a prominent role during
the war as Chief of Staff of the US War
Department.... Byrnes was undoubtedly
one of the most capable Secretaries of State
in American history, and for that reason it
is astonishing that he should announce his
resignation on the eve of the Moscow con-
ference. It is unavoidable that the observer
be inclined to fear a change in the American

19

foreign policy. ...
appointment of Ma:
change.”

The Heilbronner Stimme (Heilbronn),
disregarding the official reason as poor
health, attempted to link political implica-
tions to the resignation. However, its edi-
torial continued: “Only the future will tell
if Germany gains or loses by the change.
Byrnes had far-reaching comprehension for
European questions, and we could count on
his. sympathy.” A similar apprehension
toward the future was expressed by Das Zeit
Echo (Schwaebisch Hall) which commented:
“Many justified hopes must give way before
a new immense tension .. . The fearful antic-
ipation with which we look forward to the
peace conference has become more oppressive
than ever.”

The Darmstaedter Echo (Darmstadt) said,
“The change of the American Secretary of
State has been received with astonishment
everywhere, partly also with apprehension
lest a change in persons alter the course of
American policy. In the flow of world
political events and in view of the numerous
problems which have to be solved it is extra-
ordinarily difficult to make a prediction for
the immediate future.”

“Kurier” Commends DMG

In an editorial on Lt. Gen. Lucius Clay,
US Deputy Military Governor, the French-
licensed Kurier in Berlin pointed out that
the General has always lived up to his
original statements.

“In his relations with the three other
Allied occupation forces he had to bring the
experience of a military and administrative
organizer and had to develop the capabilities
of a diplomat,” observed the paper.

“At the same time he has shown that he
energetically tackles in the Control Council
all questions which seem to him important,”
continued the Kurier, concluding by stating

--- Page 23 ---
that General Clay is one of the four men

who have the greatest influence on Ger-

many’s future fate.

“We can be sure that he will work in
accordance: with the directives of his com-
mand in Washington and will always be
ready to enter into fruitful discussions with
his colleages in Berlin. It is not his charac-
ter to become weak in the face of ‘stale-

mates.’ ”

French Saar Action

The Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
said that France has tried to solve the Saar
question “with methods that have made the
country against which they are now being
used extrememly unpopular in the world.”
Its editorial also stated:

“The solution of the Saar question by
power politics and under circumvention of
the minimum demands of democratic ethics
(i. e., a plebiscite) prepares the ground for

new quarrels — we will not say wars, an
empty, insipid threat that could be regarded
as ridiculous — for nationalism, and chau-

vinism. In the long run, it makes no differene
to whom the Saar belongs for the immediate
future. One day it will have to belong both
to France and to Germany, because the devel-
opment of Europe moves slowly but obvious-
ly toward new goals.”

Pessimistic Outlook

The Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden) paint-
ed a gloomy picture of the present situation
in Germany. Its editorial on this topic said
in part:

“You are warned not to set your hopes too
high. For the time being the Germany be-
yond the Oder and Neisse no longer exists.
Realistic observers have for some time con-
sidered the Saar as lost, There is no Ger-
man merchant fleet. Germany has no gold,
foreign credit or property, or foreign patents.
She has to pay considerable costs of occupa-
tion. Large parts of her industry have been
dismantled . . .

“We have gone so far that it does not in-

terest us if we are allowed to produce 12, 7.5,
or 5.8 millions tons of steel: our capacity is
hardly enough for a production of 2.5 million
tons .. . The people of Germany, whether
the world considers them guilty or innocent
of their misfortune, believe that they have
been wronged. They believe, with or without
justification, that they are in forced labor.
They are indignant that the product of their
labor goes abroad. This confirms the long-
established fact that people can be told much
of the past or present distress of other people,
but they will always only feel their own
distress.”

Laenderrat Address

The address by the Deputy Military Gov-
ernor at Stuttgart early this month (see Page
13) was termed by the Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Munich) as “perhaps the most important
statement that has ever been made before the
Laenderrat.” The editorial also commented:

“A large measure of political powers was
put into the hands of the government chiefs
in the US Zone and the outlines of a future
German federal union begins to be visible
through the fog that still hides our future...
It must be food for serious thought to those
who bear the responsibility that a satisfactory
carrying-out of denazification. was made the
presupposition for the far-reaching return of
government powers into German hands.”

Old Press Idea Assailed

The Fraenkischer Tag (Bamberg) marked
its first anniversary with an editorial saying,
“The opponents of this new type of news-
paper are naturally above all those men who
controlled the press before and wish to carry
on their politics again today in the same
sense as before 1933. We know that they
cannot understand that it was precisely they
who paved the way to Hitler and doom.
Through their opinionated and. financially
dependent newspapers they turned the people
into an uncritical mass, into obedient. cattle
with votes, first for their interests, later for
the NSDAP.” ;

--- Page 24 ---
Article Sees Affect of Previous

Lessons in Land Constitutions

The significance of the popular adoption
of the Land constitutions was discussed at
length by Howard P. Jones in the Providence
Bulletin. Jones pointed out that the three
documents seem to indicate that the Germans
have learned something as a result of their
experiences under the Weimar Republic and
under the Nazi regime. After noting that
the constitutions are the first efforts at dem-
ocratic government in German states in 13
years, Jones said:

“(The adoption by popular vote of the
Land constitutions) represents the culmina-
tion of efforts of American Military Govern-
ment to re-establish the machinery and tools
of democratic government in the US Zone of
Germany. The efforts have been based upon
the fundamental idea that the only way to
learn Democracy is to practice it, and the
American Zone under the leadership of Lt.
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Military Gov-
ernor, has for a year and a half provided
the Germans a laboratory for democratic
development.

“These new constitutions are being eyed
with great interest through Europe as the
first post-war attempt of the Germans to
construct basic charters of human rights, as
well as a government siructure designed to
withstand all onslaughts on such rights.

“They are interesting documents, blending
as they have American and British concep-
tions with German experience under the
Weimar republic. Although writien under
the aegis of American Military Government,
they are German creations, drafted by pop-
ularly elected constitutional conventions
which carried on their work without inter-
ference from American Military’ Govern-
ment,

“Their adoption, too, marks the passage
of an era in Germany. Military Government
in the American Zone has now turned over

21

the operation of the gdvets
within the Zone of the @érma
significance of which it is a
aggerate. It is, incidentally, probab
first time in history that a conqueror has had
as a major objective the turning over of the
operations of government to the conquered
people.

*There are of course reserved areas of
power in the hands of Military Government.
Reparations and demilitarization will continue
to be functions of the US Army. Further-
more, all governmental matters which re-
quire negotiation with the Allies or which
extend beyond the boundaries of the Amer-
ican Zone must necessarily be handled by
Military Government. But from now on, in
the main, the job of Military Government in
the US Zone becomes that of watchdog, in-
spector, and consultant. In the areas of their
competence, the new constitutions take
control.

“The parliamentary system of government
is provided by the three constitions. Mem-
bers are elected by the system of propor-
tional representation to these parliaments,
which will select the minister-president who
will be the titular head of the state and will
appoint the cabinet.

“All the state Parliaments are one-house
legislatures, except that Bavaria has estab-
lished a body called “the Senate,” which has
no legislative power but may introduce bills
into the Parliament. It is composed of rep-
resentatives of agriculture, industry and
trade, labor, universities, religious bodies,
municipalities and professional groups. Its
functions are primarily advisory.

“The bill of rights in these constitutions
not only covers the basic freedoms of speech,
press and religion but also the right to ade-
quate housing, freedom of the arts and
sciences and the freedom of movement — an
indication that the Germans may have learned
something, after all, during these tragic
years...

--- Page 25 ---
“The preamble to the Bavarian constitu-
tion (states):

“In the presence of the field of ruins to
which a political and social order without

“s.God, without conscience and without res-

pect for the dignity of man has brought the
survivors of the Second World War,

“In the firm resolve to secure permanently
to coming German generations the blessings
of peace, humanity and justice,

“‘*The Bavarian people, remembering its
more than 1000 years of history, adopts the
following democratic constitution.’ ”

“Partners in Germany”

In an editorial “Partners in Germany”
discussing the US-British bizonal economic
merger, The New York Times said in part:

“This agreement, which has been under
discussion ever since Secretary Byrnes first
proposed unification negotiations with all
occupying Powers last July, is designed,
first of all, to put an end to the anomalous
situation which compels the United States
and Great Britain to pay reverse reparations
to a potentially properous Germany in order
to keep the Germans under their rule from
starving to death. These “reparations,” used
principally for-food, run at the rate of
$200,000,000 a year for the United States,
and at twice that sum for dollar-poor Great
Britain. That is over and above the cost of
the actual occupations and the military gov-
ernments, amounting in the case of the Unit-
ed States to approximately $800,000,000 a
year.

“The Anglo-American agreement is the
first constructive step taken to remedy the
almost chaotic situation now prevailing in
Germany. It will require another billion
dollars to make the new unit a going con-
cern, the amount to be split between the two
governments which hope to recover it from
Germany later.. The agreement provides for
the pooling of all resources, for financial re-
forms and stabilization of the mark, and for
the building up of export industries to pay
for both food and raw materials, for which
purpose the two Governments undertake to

22

establish communications and travel facilities
and appeal for the removal of trade barriers
against German goods. In that way they
hope not only to reduce their own costs but
also to restore a healthy non-aggressive Ger-
man economy which can contribute material-
ly to the economic stability of Europe.”

Professional Occupation Force

“The United States Army is attempting to
give birth to a strange baby — a professional
occupation force,” according to Edwin Hart-
rich in the New York Herald Tribune. Dis-
cussing the future of American occupation,
Hartrich continued:

“Discovering, rather surprisingly, that it
has an indefinite assignment of remaining
in Europe for ten to fifteen years — accord-
ing to General Dwight D. Eisenhower and
General Joseph T. McNarney, Commander of
American forces in Europe — the Army is
building an instrument to achieve its ob-
jectives. The present army is inadequate, a
fact recognized today by senior staff offi-
cers at headquarters of United States Forces,
European Theater.

“According to blueprints the future army
of occupation will be a force of about
125,000 men, including the constabulary,
services of supply and the air force. It is
to be composed of regular army person-
nel — officers and enlisted men — whose
age, education, background and native in-
telligence will be higher than the average
in the European theater today.

“, ... The Americans feel that their oc-
cupation and its policies are something new
and specialized . . . Morally, ethically and
evangelically, the American occupation con-
cept is to sell the ‘American way of life’
to the Germans.

“To meet, this program the Army has em-
barked on an intensified G.I. education pro-
gram. Scholastic as well as vocational train-
ing will be offered to the soldiers. In ad-
dition, McNarney has ordered that all un-
desirable characters or those persons unable
to serve as soldiers be sent home for dis-
charge.”

--- Page 26 ---
BORDER POLICE (Continued frem page 5)

continued io give any necessary assistance
to the German police and to inspect their
activities to ensure the efficient enforcement
of border traffic regulations. Frequently a
German policeman walks his post side-by-
side with a US Constabulary trooper.

Patrolling is principally on foot because
of the lack of transportation, but the German
border police occasionally use bicycles, mo-
torcycles, automobiles, and even skis in
mountain areas during winter months. These
German policemen have become the first line
of defense against smuggling and other
illegal border crossing. They maintain static
watch posts at regular border points or on
routes of travel easily accessible, but between
these points and in rear areas along roads
and trails leading from or paralleling the
border they move about in roving patrols.

RESPONSIBILITIES OUTLINED

The law enforcement responsibilities of the
German border police include chiefly the en-
forcement of MG Law No. 161, which pro-
hibits the movements into or out of the US
Zone of any person or thing without the
specific approval of Military Government.
However, there are provisions for the is-
suance io certain specified travelers of per-
mits to enter or leave Germany or to travel
between the zones of occupation. Similarly,
permission can be obtained to import or
export goods or merchandise or to transport
such materials in trade between zones, The
border police are responsible for inspecting
these legitimate travelers and legal shipments
crossing the international border at author-
ized. crossing points or moving along regular
travel routes between the US and other zones.

In this activity their functions’are substan-
tially the same as those of the prewar Ger-
man immigration or customs inspectors, or
even the duties of immigration and customs
inspectors as we know them in the United
States. The border police have the additional
responsibility of preventing any illegal in-
terzonal border traffic and the apprehension

23

of any persons violating or attempting to
violate the laws and regulations governing
movements across the zonal borders.

The proficiency of the German border
police organizations is remarkable when one
considers the fact that they are newly
created, without trained or experienced per-
sonnel, and greatly. handicapped by the dif-
ficulties of procuring necessary equipment
such as clothing, transportation, and com-
munications. Figures from the past three
months indicate their accomplishments: -In
October, there were 22,911 illegal entries or
exits and confiscated goods valued at
RM 1,109,484; in November, there were
25,760 illegal entries or exits and confiscated
goods valued at RM 644,047; while in De-
cember, there were 19,390 illegal entries and
exits and confiscated goods valued at
RM 533,994.

The organizations have been completely
uniformed and have been armed with non-
German carbines and revolvers. They now
have — in addition to telephones — a tele-
type network which links each of their field
headquarters to the central headquarters of
the organization in each Land. For use in
coordinating their activities with those of the
US Constabulary units assigned to border
control work, they also have access to the
telephone networks of the Constabulary.

TRAINING SCHOOL IN HESSE

In Wuertemberg-Baden and Bavaria, bor-
der police receive the same training as rural
and urban police with supplementary train-
ing furnished to those in Bavaria through
correspondence courses. Hesse is operating
a border police training school at Bad Selters
which has graduated approximately 400 stu-
dents to date.

The general authority of the border police
has been restricted by the US policy prohib-
iting German civilian policemen from
exercising authority or jurisdiction over
members of the Allied Forces or Allied civil-
ians serving with them. Because of this, it

--- Page 27 ---
has been necessary to station US troops at
all border crossing points used by Allied
personnel and to maintain close coordination
with the German roving patrols who may
encounter Allied persons, This relationship
between US and German police organizations
will continue. However, with the completion
of the demilitarization and denazification of
the US Zone of Germany and the return of
border traffic to a more normal peacetime
status, complete responsibility for control of
all but Allied traffic will be given to the
German border police.

‘When the police force was first organized,
there was but little legally authorized traffic
interzonally or internationally. It is now
possible for many persons to enter or leave
Germany legally and several agreements
have been made by the occupying powers
permitiing greater travel freedom for Ger-
man residents between the zones. Among
these are three Control Council direc-

tives, one permitting certain travelers en-
gaged in interzonal trade or other essential
activities to. obtain semi-permanent passes
allowing them to move freely between the
several zones; another providing for one-trip
passes; and a third allowing those workers
who live in one zone, but who are employed
in another, to cross those interzonal borders
freely without any special interzonal pass.

In addition to these provisions which are
common to the four zones of occupation, the
US and British Governments have agreed to
permit free travel of German civilians, other
than displaced and stateless persons, between
the US and British Zones without requiring
permission or travel passes. Displaced per-
sons and. stateless people still must obtain
passes from the proper MG authorities. The
purpose of this agreement was not to en-
courage. unnecessary trips for pleasure or
personal reasons, but, to remove restrictions
on all necessary travel.

DECARTELIZATION: THE OIL INDUSTRY (Continued from page 8)

two major processes. of synthetic oil produc-
tion. Both subsidies-and high tariffs on the
importation of finished petroleum. products
were introduced. to encourage the new in-
dustry. By 1938, the production of synthetic
oil. was already more than twice as great as
that of crude oil, and plants in construction
and projected could:be counted on to double
synthetic production within two years.

With the outbreak of the war in 1939 and
the blockade, Germany was cut off from
imports. Since crude oil as well as finished
products had been included in these imports,
many German refineries were deprived of
their raw materials, and only those con-
veniently located for the refining of in-
digenous: crude oil continued to gd) at
capacity.

This loss of imports was, however, to some
extent counteracted by the development of
the oil fields of the «Vienna basin, which
since 1939 have become a major source of oil
by European standards and rank second on
the continent to those of Rumania. The oil
fields of ‘Hungary were also developed and

made an effective contribution of oil to Ger-
many, and Rumania placed about all of her
exportable surplus of crude oil at Germany’s
disposal.

Synthetic oil production, in the develop-
ment of which the chemical and heavy in-
dustries played a more important role than
the oil industry, meanwhile grew to such an
extent that by 1943 the output of oil manu-
factured from coal was more than five mil-
lion metric tons. This was achieved only at
a tremendous cost in capital for plant con-
version and construction and in manpower
both to mine the coal’ and to operate the
plants. The effect of this expansion on the
oil industry as a whole was reflected in
an increase in the assets of the industry
from’ RM 1,284,000,000 “in 1938 to RM
2,600,000,000 in 1943 and an increase in the
level of employment within the industry
from 39,000 in 1938 to 108,000 in 1943.

A breakdown of the production of pe-
troleum products for 1943, the peak produc-
tion year for greater Germany, shows a total
production of 7,489,000. metric tons, of which

--- Page 28 ---
5,500,000 were . derived. from coal and
1,935,000 were crude oil production. This
amount of crude oil production included
1,210,000 metric tons from Austria, which
means that production in Germany’ proper
was 725,000 metric tons, all of which came
from Northwest German fields. While this
production increased slightly in 1944, the
future maximum potential production in
what remains of Germany is placed at
600,000 metric tons, which would yield ap-
proximately 540,000 metric tons after refin-
ing. Eight firms account for better than 90
percent of German crude oil production and
approximately 70 percent is produced by
three companies: Deutsche Erdél, Elwerath,
and Wintershall.

GERMAN REFINERY PICTURE

Although in 1943 slightly less than two
million metric tons of petroleum products
were refined in Germany, total prewar re-
finery capacity was approximately three mil-
lion metric tons, much of which was designed
for the processing and rerunning of imported
residues and partly finished products. This
refinery capacity was in the hands of 13
German firms, many of which were in actual
fact owned by foreign stockholders. The
dominating position in the German refinery
picture was held by the Shell Group, whose
Rhenania-Ossag refineries had an annual
capacity of 960,000 metric tons. As a result
of Allied air raids, the Shell refineries have
largely ceased to exist, and only two major
refineries are now. operating. One of these is
German owned and the other is owned by
Deutsche Vacuum Oel AG., a subsidiary of
the Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. of N. Y. The
Vacuum refinery is an important producer
of lubricants but its output of light products
is insignificant.

Because of the sharp deline in the pro-
duction of synthetic petroleum, Germany
today is faced with meeting its oil require-
ments almost entirely from its own crude
production and from imports, which are
financed by the occupying powers because
of Germany’s lack of foreign exchange. The
cost of these imports of finished products

25

(estimated ‘at $54,000,000 for 1949) has
caused the occupation authorities to consider
reducing this dollar cost by importing
crude oil and then refining the imported
erude within Germany. Thirteen refineries
which have been declared available for rep-
arations, with a present annual capacity of
858,000 metric tons, may, therefore, be
retained in Germany. At present, the two
refineries which process more than 60 per-
cent of Germany’s 600,000 metric tons of
crude oil constitute a monopoly problem in
the production of lubricating oils. The pro-
duction of synthetic petroleum products that
remains in Germany is confined to the Soviet
Zone where it is supported by coal contribut-
ed by the Western zones. The Potsdam Dec-
latation calls for the eventual elimination of
the production of all synthetic petroleum
products in Germany.

Through the year 1946 in the Western
zones, the three foreign-owned and one Ger-
man-owned marketing companies were able
to retain their participation in over 70 per-
cent of the petroleum distributed for civilian
use through the continued operation of the
marketing associations, or cartels, formed
during the war. With the dissolution of
ASV, the lubricating oil cartel, accomplished,
the year 1947 will mark the return of demo-
cratic principles to the oil trade which may
soon be extended to other segments of the
oil industry.

ACA Repeals Ordinance -

The Allied Control Council recently
passed Law No, 44, which repeals the or-
dinance of 11 October 1944 concerning
“extraordiniry measures on leases, agricul-
tural management, and debtor relief caused
by total war.” The repeal of the ordinance,
effective 15 March 1947, means that certain
land and property leases frozen by German
law are now releasable; that certain trustee-
ships for agricultural land, authorized by
German law and extended by the 11 October
1944 Ordinance, will now’ expire; and that
relief to some debtors from the courts, as
authorized by German law, will end.

--- Page 29 ---
GERMAN VETERINARY LABORATORIES (Continued from page 10)

The state institutions are used for disease
diagnosis and control, and for food examina-
tion.

Samples of meat and meat products are
collected from time to time from retail shops
by state veterinary officials and submitted
to the state laboratories for examination and
analysis. The routine laboratory work on
food inspection and disease diagnosis is done
by decentralized state laboratories distributed
throughout Germany. These laboratories gen-
erally perform bacteriological, physical,
chemical, and biological examinations of
poultry and animal products in order to
diagnose disease and suggest hygienic con-
trol. In addition, most of these laboratories
produce small amounts of the various specific
test substances needed to carry out the re-
quired tests. They provide the live cultures
used with serum for the simultaneous
method of immunization against swine ery-
sipelas.

EXTENSIVE DAMAGE DURING WAR

Even though most of the laboratories were
badly damaged during the war, most of them
have been repaired sufficiently to be useful
again. Bavaria is fortunate in having two
laboratories, located at Nuremberg and
Schleissheim, which are still an integral part
of that Land’s control program. The one at
Nuremberg provides diagnostic and food hy-
giene service for the northern part of Bava-
ria. The larger State Veterinary Police In-
stitute (State Veterinary Laboratory) at
Schleissheim serves the southern part of the
Land, and furnishes certain biologicals and
laboratory service for all of Bavaria.

The Schleissheim Institute, located six
miles north of Munich near Dachau, was
damaged only slightly during the war and
is now completely repaired. It consists of a
large, centrally-located building and several
large stables, located on the edge of the
small town of Schleissheim and surrounded
by level, well-drained pastures. The main
building has offices for administrative work,

laboratories for diagnosis, post mortem clin-
ics, food examination and analysis, , biologic-
al production, and classroom laboratories. in
which short courses and refresher courses. are
held for state veterinary officials and special-
ists. : .

In the same building live the director and
his family. The German personnel]: of‘ the
laboratory live in the nearby village. The
technicians are long-time employees, ‘and are
reported to be well qualified, conscientious
workers.

SERUMS AND VACCINES PRODUCED

The stables house the animals and poultry
needed to produce sera and vaccine. Here,
also, diagnostic procedures are carried out.
including tests to determine the potency and
standardization of the products created at the
institute. Both serum and culture used for
immunizing pigs against erysipelas are, pro-
duced. The crystal violet vaccine mentioned
earlier is prepared here, as is the remedy for
fowl plague.

The organization itself is divided into de-
partments for administration, food control.
pathology and bacteriology, diagnostic and
port mortem, serology, biological production,
shipping and receiving, and education and
instruction. The instruction department in-
cludes lecture rooms and laboratories where
veterinary officials are given refresher cours-
es on the latest developments in diagnostic
procedures, and in inspection and control of
diseases.

HANDICAPS CITED

State laboratories such as that at Schleiss-
heim are directed by veterinarians respon-
sible to the Land official or the Minister of
the Interior. The service of these institutes
is limited however, because of lack of politi-
cally-approved and technically-qualified per-
sonnel, the need for further repairs.and re-
placement of equipment, and shortages of
electricity, fuel, and supplies.

Close liaison between field workers and

--- Page 30 ---
for animal disease control rests with the state
veterinary official. All communicable animal
diseases are under his supervision. If labor-
atory assistance is necessary, animals or
specimeng are forwarded to the state labora-
tory by the veterinary official. The practi-
tioner carries out the field work of disease
control under the direction of the state offi-
cial. Aid can be sought directly from the
state laboratories by the practitioners them-
selves for conditions of a non-communicable
character appearing in livestock.

UTILIZE STATE LABORATORIES

Small slaughterhouses, local licensed butch-
ers, and farmers who perform emergency
slaughter of their own livestock submit
samples of meat to the state veterinary labor-
atory for bacteriological examination and
microscopical inspection for trichina. Simi-

larly, samples of milk taken both at dairy
farms and at processing plants are forward-
ed to the state laboratories for examination
for disease conditions. Analysis of milk for
fat content is done by other laboratories and
by lay personnel.

TRAINING PROGRAMS NECESSARY

The best hope for permanent improve-
ment of Germany’s war-weakened veterinary
system is in training programs. New person-
nel are being recruited among retired men
and politically-cleared younger doctors, Re-
fresher courses for practitioners and training
courses for. newly-appointed veterinary offi-
cials, lay meat inspectors, and laboratory
assistants are being given throughout the US
Zone. And, perhaps most important, veter-
inary colleges have opened their doors again
to train replacements.

EVALUATION OF THE GERMAN VOTE (Continued trom page 12)

What would the picture be if the SPD were
admitted in the Soviet Zone? How strong
would the LDP be then? One report suggests
that the LDP to a large extent owes its suc-
cess in the eastern zone to the votes that
would in other circumstances have been cast
for the SPD. The same is true at least for
the SED. The absence of the large, or
formerly large, parties from the ballot may
affect the outcome of an election in such a way
that it is doubtful whether the results are
of more than purely temporary significance.

FORMER NAZI VOTE

In this connection, there is one outstanding
but widely forgotten fact:.the- largest vote
ever polled by the SPD before 1933 was less
than 10 million (in 1928). Compared with
this, the Nazis reached almost 14 million in
1932 and more than 17 million in March
1933. What has become of these 17 million
people who, even without heavy pressure,
voted for Hitler 14 years ago? Not all of
them have turned by now into convinced
Liberals, Democrats, Social-Democrats, or
Communists. We can be sure that there are

still millions of people who, if they were
given the choice, would vote for a party
more to the right than any now existing.
This fact should not be obscured from us by
large CDU or SPD majorities in the present-
day elections: A very large increase in demo-
cratic votes indicates that former Nazis may
have voted democratic, but it does not prove
that they have become democratic.

SPECIAL ANALYSIS REQUIRED:

In a statistical sense, it will frequently
not be possible to draw a comparison be-
tween present and former election figures in
Germany without a special analysis of all the
changes involved, such as those mentioned
above. Those who overlook this and take
such comparisons at their face value are
liable to commit grave errors in evaluating
the political situation and its trends. On the
other hand, a thorough examination of the
reasons why such comparisons cannot be
made may lead to the discovery of political
or social facts which may be even more
important or interesting than the election
figures themselves. ;

--- Page 31 ---
PROGRESS OF SELF-GOVERNMENT (Continued from page 14)

proval by Military Government.

Military Government believes that the pro-
cedures which I have outlined will give you
full responsibility for state legislation which
does not conflict with our basic objectives,
without preventing the enactment of national
or zonal legislation which must still remain
a responsibility of Military Government.

Summarizing, the Laenderrat continues to
be charged with responsibility for preparing
legislation that obviously must be: applied
uniformly throughout the US Zone of occu-
pation. It must continue to study, comment
cn, and recommend and propose quadri-
partite legislation to be made applicable to
Germany as a whole. The individual mem-
bers of the Laenderrat, acting in their capac-
ities as Ministers-President of the three
states, will express the views of each state
in matters of bizonal economy through their
representatives on the bizonal agencies. Each
Minister-President will be responsible for the
execution, of bizonal economic policies.

Thus, it seems to me that you have been
given now the full measure of self-responsi-
bility which. is possible until some form of
provisional government is established for
Germany as a whole.

DENAZIFICATION ESSENTIAL

I must remind you that in. placing this
responsibility for government back in your
hands, we have exacted as a condition the
satisfactory execution of the Law for Libera-
tion from National Socialism and Militarism.
It continues to be the view of Military
Government that thorough denazification is
essential to democratization and to restora-
tion of. self-government.

‘Recently, in response to the solicitation of
responsible .German. officials, ‘General Mc-
Narney has extended: the. youth amnesty to
thousands of “little” Nazis-in the expressed
hope. that’ it will encourage them to: denio-
cratic ways. In doing so, he has eased ‘sub-
‘Stantially the administrative load now carried
by the denazification ministries and tribunals
which you felt too large for satisfactory ad<
ministration.

In return, it is expected that full ad-
vantage will be taken of this reduction in
administrative work to seek out aggressively
and to punish adequately the active Nazis
and their associates who profited from the
Nazi regime. That challenge still lies before
you as the representatives of the German
people in the US Zone of occupation. Your
real determination to seek the ways of democ-
racy and to regain a place in the family of
nations will be judged by the people
throughout the world from the success, with
which you meet this challenge.

Finally, I wish to reiterate that Military
Government welcomes its new relationship
with a Laenderrat which is composed of
Ministers-President selected by the German
people as their representatives. We shall
expect you to represent the German people
and we shall give utmost consideration to
your views. I propose to meet with you
monthly and I shall be glad at any time to
receive your comments and recommendations.
I shall expect: your cooperation and your
prompt. execution of any decrees which
Military Government may find it necessary
to issue.

Your task is difficult. The daily life of
your people during the coming year will not
be easy. I trust, however, that through your
efforts, the New Year will bring a measurable
improvement in the economic conditions
which prevail in Germany, accompanied by
continued - progress in democratic  self-
government. You will have the full support
of Military Government to these ends.

Prohibited Materials

The manufacture, import, export, ‘trans-
port, and storage of: all -but specifically
authorized war materials’ in Germany: are
prohibited according to Control Council Law
No, 43.. These exceptions will be ‘permitted
only with the authority and under the
control of the appropriate’ Zone Commander
and will provide only for essential peacetime

v

requirements. i om . y