--- Page 2 ---
NUMBER 75 / 13 JANUARY 1947

Lo

oe

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
Ew
 @

UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY

Greater Hesse, Wuertfemberg-Baden, ;

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

0

IN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Change 1 to Title 2, Eradication of Nazism and Militarism
Change 1 to Title 27, Control of Scientific Research . ./ .
Non-Registration of Sundry Funds

Requisitioning Real Estate for Displaced Persons
Consumption of Petroleum Products for Ground Use

Travel Across Belgium and Luxembourg Frontiers .

US Army Facilities and Accomodations in the European Theater
OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .

Documents Policy ,

Delay in Publication of USFET-SOP No 94

Allied Military Missions

Compressed Gas Cylinders .--) -2 i ee Se epee Oo

Admission of All Languages in Outgoing International Mail

General Authorization No 1 pursuant to Regulation No 1 under Military

Government Law No 2

Elections for Grievance Committee .

Compressed Gas Cylinders .

Repair and Maintenance of Railway Rolling Stock .
Amendment to MGR Title 14, Pat 3... ....~,
American Publications Licensed for Sale in Germany.

Control of Fraternization .

AG 014.12
21 Oct 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.12
12 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 130 IGI-AGO
7 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 601 ENG-AGO

, 10 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 463.7 GDS-AGO
13 Dec 1946, USFET
AG 210.482 GEC-AGO
19 Dec 1946, USFET
AG 620 GAP-AGO

21 Dec 1946, USFET
AG 014.1 (SG)

26 Dec 1946, OMGUS
AG 312.1 GBI-AGO
27 Dec 1946, USFET
AG 461 GAP-AGO

27 Dec 1946, USFET
AG 091.112 (SG)

27 Dec 1946. OMGUS
AG 010.6 (ED)

27 Dec 1946, OMGUS
1A 311.4 (131)

28 Dec 1946, OMGUS
010.6 (AG)

28 Dec 1947, OMGUS
AG 201.23 (PO)

28 Dec 1946, OMGUS
AG 010.6 (ED)

30 Dec 1946. OMGUS
AG 453 (ED)

30 Dec 1946, OMGUS
AG 014.1 (TD)

30 Dec 1946, OMGUS
AG 461 (IC)

3 Jan 1947, OMGUS
AG 385.1 (AG)

4 Jan 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be- obtained by -writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
THIS WEEK

PAGE
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS 2
MESSAGE FROM THE DEPUTY MILITARY GOVERNOR 4
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

New German Civil Service 6

The Chemical Industry

Control of Scientific Research 11

Become a Miner 13

Effect of Economic Merger 16
GENERAL 19
GERMAN REACTIONS 23
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS 25

--- Page 7 ---
MESSAGE

FROM THE
DEPUTY MILITARY GOVERNOR

. 7 January 1947
‘'O: The Personnel of Military Government

‘the New Year brings to Military Government a new phase in its control
in Germany. : ie

‘The functions of government which properly belong to the Land are now
handed over to governments elected by and responsible to the German people.
Hereafter, we shall intervene in Land legislation and administration only if
necessary to prevent measures which are inconsistent with our objectives in
Germany. ‘his is in accord with our stated policy to encourage the revival
of Germany as a democratic and peace-loving nation through the removal of
obstacles to democracy while concurrently taking measures which will prevent
its emergence as an aggressive power.

In approving the Land constitutions, Military Government has reserved
the responsibility for uniform legislation pending the establishment of some
form of national government. While the rights of the Laender are defined
clearly in their constitutions which provide also for future ceding of requisite
powers to national government, the exact powers to be thus ceded have not
and cannot be formulated until the final form of national government has
been determined. Hence, in matters in which uniformity is desirable through-
out Germany, if possible, and throughout the United States Zone of Oc-
cupation in any event, Military Government must continue as the authority
for legislation.

It will be the policy of Military Government to maintain a high degree of
local responsibility and to hold national legislation to the essential minimum.
However, some uniform legislation will be necessary and will continue to be
issued for Germany as a whole by ruling of the Allied Control Council, or,
if applicable to the US Zone only, through the Laenderrat.

‘Yhe central administrative agencies contemplated in the Potsdam Protocol
for Germany as a whole have not materialized. However, as a result of
economic fusion of the US and UK Zones, these agencies have been established
in the area which includes the two zones, for communications, transportation,
finance, industry, trade and commerce, and food and agriculture.

‘The responsible German governments in the US Zone will he represented
on these bizonal German agencies. It is expected that the Ministers-President
in the US Zone will implement the decisions of the bizonal agencies with the

4

--- Page 8 ---
full authority of Military Government.

It is apparent that these changes in over-all governmental responsibility
will require some readjustment in our own relationships to German Land
governments. We must not interfere with German assumption of responsibility.
‘We must support Land constitutions. with utmost sincerity. Within the field
of bizonal fusion, we must recognize that executive responsibility has now
been given to the German bizonal administrations and that we must refrain
from taking action which would interfere with their control of the matters
for which they are responsible.

it will continue to be our duty to inspect, to assist when assistance is
requested, ‘and to report the results.of our observations through appropriate
channels either to Military Government Headquarters in Berlin for Land
activities, or to the United States-United Kingdom Control staffs for bizonal
activities.

Some of you who have labored hard and efficiently to produce order in
Germany will feel, perhaps, that you have lost some of the authority which
you previously exercised. I believe that on sober thought you will understand
that the willingness to relinquish authority is the test of our own sincerity
of effort to restore democracy to Germany. You will also soon find that the
exercise of influence for good government without the authority to order,
calls for an even higher standard of conduct and character.

In looking back over the past year, you have every reason to be proud
that through your efforts German administrations have evolved under
democratic procedures which now appear capable of undertaking Land
governmental responsibility.

Your work to this end during the past years has been in an uncharted
field. There have been few precedents founded in experience to serve as a
guide. Obviously, under these conditions many of us have differed in detail
as to what should be done and as to what has been done. Some have had
different views from others with repect to the timing of various actions.
Nevertheless, all of us recognize that our primary mission is the development
of a democratic Germany which no longer will desire to wage aggressive
war and the maintenance of adequate controls until the desire is completely
eradicated. mone

With high purpose in mind, each of us should become increasingly proud
during the coming year of belonging to United States Military Government.
No Americans ever had greater opportunity to participate in a constructive
effort of such great import to the peace of the world than those of us who
serve in Military Government.

Therefore, in true humility, let us resolve to give our best to the task
ahead in a spirit of service with confidence in each other and with tolerance
for honest differences of opinion. Working in this spirit, we shall be loyal
to each other, to the organization to which we belong, and to the American
people who have entrusted this vital task to our hands. If we do not fail

each other, we cannot fail in our task.

Lieutenant General, US Army

Deputy Military Governor
5

--- Page 9 ---
CW
German
Gil Service

he democratization of the German Civil

Service is being achieved in the US Zone
by broadening the basis of selection, elimi-
nating the caste system through promotions
of qualified personnel within the organiza-
tion, and expanding the service to include
all working full-time for the government
in permanent, classified positions. This en-
courgement by Military Government is in
addition to the denazification and demili-
tarization being carried out in accordance
with the Potsdam Agreement and quadri-
partite directives.

The program for creation of a new Civil
service in Germany is based on the follow-
ing postulates: (a) The state exists to serve
the people, not the people to serve the state.
(b) The civil servant thus is literally the
servant of the people, not their master. (c)
In a democracy every person should have
the right to compete for a government posi-
tion for which he deems himself qualified.
(d) A democratic government, serving the
people, is entitled to the most highly quali-
fied personnel available to fill its require-
ments.

In applying this policy, MG exerted every
effort to convince German officials that the
time was opportune to revise their own
system by incorporating into it certain dem-
ceratic concepts. There was to be no con-

notation of merely imposing the will of the

\\conqueror on the conquered. But the Ger-
man people had great difficulties in wiping
out traditional lines of thought and learn-
ing to think along lines which had develop-
ed slowly even in America. However, by
15 November 1946, each of the Laender had
drafted and enacted a new civil service code.
While the codes vary in detail of procedure,
all of them provide for the essential
features of good personnel administration,
namely recruitment and advancement by the
merit system through examinations with
the opportunity to rise from the lowest class
of service to such positions as the individual
can attain through merit, an extension of
comparable benefits to all levels of public
servants, and impartial and uniform admin-
istration of the program by a Land person-
nel office.

With passage of the law, MG called a
conference of personnel directors and chair-
men and members of personnel commissions
in the three Laender. To the Germans, the
concept of a ceritral personnel office was
brand new. The meeting convened in Stutt-
gart on 25 November, ten days after pro-
mulgation of the codes. Also attending were
MG experts in the fields of civil service and
law. The topics on the agenda were the
particular problems involved in the estab-

--- Page 10 ---
lishment of a central personnel office, re-
cruitment and promotion, classification of
positions, supervision and training pro-
grams, relationships between central person-
nel offices and ministries, and methods of
informing the public of the operation and
benefits of the personnel program.

EFFECT OF CONFERENCE

This pooling of ideas and information
around a common council table for two
days did much to clarify the principles em-
bodied in the new codes. The characteristic
ultra-conservatism and antipathy toward ex-
perimentation was obvious at the beginning,
but through skillful handling the discussion
was successful. Leaders from each of the
Laender requested MG officers to meet with
them to discuss individual Land problems.
At the end of the conference Germans and
Americans alike felt that much had been
accomplished; and US personnel present

sensed a willingness and a resolve on the
part of the Germans concerned to make the
new program work.

To understand fully the significance of
MG’s progress in the democratization of
German Civil Service, the historical develop-
ment of the organization must be consider-
ed: its progress from personal servants of
kings to a well organized and disciplined
but independent and potent force within
the structure of the modern German govern-
ment. This transition began with, and paral-
leled that of permanent armies, both in pres-
tige and in importance to the existance of
the German state. Its beginning derived
from the extensive costs of such armies, ne-
cessitating an increasing efficiency in goy-
ernmental administration.

(Continued on page 28)

The Burgomaster (right) and his assis-
tant watch as a civil servant checks re-
ceipts at the Berlin-Zehlendort Rathaus.
Photo by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 11 ---
he production of chemicals was the sec-

ond largest industry in Germany before
the war, with such items as dyestuffs and
pharmaceutical supplies known throughout
the world. Near the end of the war the
industry came to a complete stop and re-
mained dormant for about six months, until
in November 1945 the large chemical fertil-
izer plant at Trostberg in Bavaria began
operating again, the first step in MG’s pro-
gram to rebuild the German chemical indus-
try to enable it to turn out products nec-
essary to a peacetime economy.

Germany possesses large natural reserves
of most of the basic raw materials required
for the production of chemical products es-

Production at this chemical factory ta_
Berlin is handicapped by a shortage
of machinery and raw materials.

sential to a modern industrial economy. Coal,
limestone, salt, potash, and wood are abund-
ant; and although some important chemicals
have always had to be imported, prewar
Germany produced 17 percent of the world’s
chemicals, 46 percent of all synthetic dyes,
and 38 percent of all nitrogen. The part
played by the chemical industry in enabling
Germany to wage the past war was also
significant, taking form chiefly in explosives,
propellants, and rocket fuels.

In the latter part of 1945, with a shortage
of food throughout the country and very
little fertilizer on hand, chemical fertilizers
were given priority by MG as a means to
obtain the greatest possible crop production

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 12 ---
be

Workers pressing pharmaceutical tablets in a Berlin factory.

in the summer of 1946. The problems en-
countered in attempting to renew full-scale
production in the chemical plants were
numerous; transportation facilities were
inadequate, and deliveries of coal and coke
were slow. As a result, only very small
amounts of fertilizer could be applied to the
soil for the 1946 crops, and it was not until
June 1946 that a program for maximum
production actually was started, under the
terms of a quadripartite agreement provid-
ing for the production and distribution of
fertilizer among the four occupation zones
of Germany.

[FERTILIZERS ALLOCATED

At the same time, the Combined Food
Board in Washington made available to the
four zones large amounts of nitrogen and
superphosphate fertilizers, together with the
necessary phosphate rock to produce super-
phosphate in Germany. For the period from
1 July 1946 to 30 June 1947, about 70 per-
cent of the nitrogen requirements, 42 percent

Signal Corps Photo

of the superphosphate requirements, and 82
percent of the potash requirements of the
country will be available. Although this
program will not meet all of Germany’s re-
quirements for the next crop year, it rep-
resents a vast improvement over the past
two years; and it is expected that fertilizer
requirements for 1947-1948 will be com-
pletely filled.

SULPHURIC ACID PRODUCTION

Sulphuric acid, one of the more important
industrial chemicals, is currently being
produced in the US Zone at the rate of about
3,000 tons a month, or about 25 percent of
the plant capacity to be left in Germany
by 1949. This chemical, necessary in the
production of fertilizers, dyestuffs, synthetic
fibers such as rayon, pharmaceuticals, and
numerous other items, is being made in the
US Zone entirely from iron pyrites, mined
in Germany but in insufficient quantity to
meet current needs.

There is at present a world-wide shortage

--- Page 13 ---
10

of soda ash, urgently needed for production
of soap, glass, and other important products.
The US Zone has only one plant producing
soda ash at the present time, and this plant
is operating at only 25 percent of its proj-
ected 1949 capacity.

One of the most important products being
turned out in the US Zone is calcium carbide,
the direct or indirect source of the fertilizer
calcium cyanamid, acetylene gas, vinyl
resins, alcohol, vinegar, and numerous sol-
vents. The lacquer, plastics, and pharma-
ceutical industries are also dependent on the
products of calcium carbide. At present
the calcium carbide plants in the US Zone
are operating at about 90 percent of their
proposed 1949 capacity.

TEN PERCENT OF 1949 LEVEL

The once great German dye industry is
now operating at about 10 percent of allow-
ed 1949 capacity in the US Zone, with
production of dyestuffs largely limited to
two colors, blue and black, used for dyeing
American uniforms to be worn by DP’s,
PW’s, and German guards. Chief limiting
factor in this field has been the shortage of
necessary coal tar products; but the econom-
ic merger with the British Zone, which
possesses the necessary raw materials, should
bring’ about a considerable increase in the
volume of production of dyestuffs in the US
Zone.

The pharmaceutical industry was one of
the first to recover after the war, and is
already producing some items for export.
However, there is an acute shortage of in-
sulin and penicillin in Germany, and imports
of both have been necessary to supply the
minimum requirements. Efforts at produc-
ing insulin from fish glands have resulted
in a reported high yield and considerable
interest in the experiment. Plans are cur-
rently being made to produce penicillin in
sufficient quantities to meet the country’s
requirements.

Soap production in Germany is insufficient

(Continued on page 27)

(Left) Due to the shortage of supplies
this German woman exercises extreme
care in filtering a bottle of serum.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 14 ---
CONTROL OF

Il

GS oni research, shorn of all application
to military and closely affiliated activities,
must contribute a large share to economic
reactivation of Germany, particularly since
her heavy industries and many types of light
industries are severely restricted by the Pots-
dam Agreement. The United States is vitally
interested in this economic resurgence for it
means a lessening of the drain on US funds
to maintain the occupation, although the
direct effect from permitted scientific research
is not expected to be felt for some time.

Germany has long been famed for her
scientific research. Unrestricted, it contribu-
ted to Germany’s mistaken and grandiose idea
which launched two world wars. Joined
with progressing science of other nations, on
the other hand, it achieved much for better
living and greater happiness. The warlike
tendencies of German science must be crush-
ed without crippling the scientific research
smoothing the road toward lasting peace and
democratic cooperation.

PROBLEM STUDIED BY US GROUP

Long before the fighting ceased, the prob-
lem of prohibiting military research without
throttling peaceful research was studied in the
United States by a committee of the National
Research Council. In making its recommenda-
tions, the committee considered carefully the
time which must elapse for a discovery, the
applied research and development through
pilot plants to full scale production, and the
most effective point to exert control. The
chairman of this committee, as Scientific Ad-
viser to the Deputy Military Governor, serv-
ed on the Quadripartite Committee on the
Liquidation of German War Potential and
was instrumental in writing the Control
Council Law No. 25 for control of scientific
research, enacted 29 April 1946. Quadri-
partite agreement on a law so liberal and yet

--- Page 15 ---
so effective is one of the outstanding examples
of Allied cooperation in the occupation of
Germany. —

The definition of “applied scientific re-
search” is of great importance in the applica-
tion of Law No. 25. It must be clearly dis-
tinguished on the one hand from “‘fundamen-
tal scientific research”, and on the other from
routine development work, which must be
allowed in any industry in which production
is permitted, or the permission to produce
will be meaningless.

Law No. 25 states that
scientific research’ means research of an ex-
ploratory character in any field directed to-
ward the discovery of new knowledge, theo-
ries, principles, or laws of nature, or of new
compounds or materials.

APPLIED SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH

“‘Applied scientific research’ means re-
search work directed to the conversion to in-
dustrial use of any old or new scientific
knowledge or principle; or the conversion to
pilot plant or engineering development stage
of any results of fundamental scientific re-
search; or research work directed to the im-
provement of a known industrial process of
manufacture or engineering or to the intro-
duction of a new process of production of
any manufactured articles; or field and other
practical trials of new devices and the test-
ing of preproduction models.”

The “applied scientific research” is applied
to industrial production; research as applied
to other purposes, such as agricultural pro-
duction and medicine, is not specifically in-
cluded in either class. At least in the US
Zone, the purpose of the Law to prohibit
military research is interpreted to mean that
any research not defined by law as “applied”
shall be treated as “fundamental” research.

The implementation of Law No. 25 in the
US Zone is Title 27 of MG Regulations,
with effective date 30 July 1946. It was
writtén after much authority had already
been given to the Germans, and goes about as
far in-this direction as is possible in the
enforcement of a Control Council Law, For

“ ¢fundamental —

12

the administration of the Law and related
functions, there is a Research Control Branch
in the Economics Division of OMGUS and a
similar office in each of the Land Economics
Branches. There is a corresponding office in
the Ministry of Economics of each Land.

PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS

The research establishment submits its ap-
plications and reports to the Land ministry
which supervises it, and the ministry in turn
forwards them to the German Research
Control Office. This office can deny author-
ization of an establishment or permission for
a project, or it can recommend to MG that
authorization or permission be granted. In
either case the German office forwards the
applications and reports to the MG Research
Control Branch in the Land. This branch
grants or denies authorization of research
establishments; for decisions regarding per-
mission for research projects, the material is
forwarded to the Research Control Branch
at OMGUS.

Research is permitted only in authorized
establishments, which must report every four
months on their income, equipment, personnel,
and work done in the four-month period.
“Applied scientific research” is prohibited on
any matter of a primarily military nature
and on certain other items which are closely
related to modern warfare, such as nuclear
physics, aeronautics, ship construction, radar,
electronic decoding, certain chemicals of
primarily military usefulness, and the manu-
facture (but not non-military use) of other
chemicals which have important peacetime,
as well as military, uses.

MILITARY RESEARCH PROHIBITED
“Fundamental scientific research” is pro-
hibited only if it is of a primarily military
nature, or if it requires installations which
would be valuable for applied military re-
search. Prior permission is required for ap-
plied research on matters which are important
both for war and peace economics, such as
broadcasting, television, and the production
of synthetic ammonia, oil, and rubber. Prior
(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 16 ---


--- Page 17 ---
... The slogan on the previous page is one
of many which appear on posters displayed
throughout the British Zone to further
recruitment of men for the Ruhr coal mines. |
The recruitment posters are part of a four-

power campaign to increase German coal
preduction. In addition to promising
increased food r ns, these posters offer
miners better housing conditions, increased
wages, restoration of pensions to pre-occupa-
tion levels, and an increased supply of con-
sumer goods particularly clothing, shoes,
funiture, and household utensils.

As a result of the campaign Ruhr coal
production rose to a post-war peak of

--- Page 18 ---
203,000 metric tons per day on 18 December.
This compares with approximately 189,000
tons per day in November and 179,000 tons
back in July. However the present shortages
of manpower and mining equipment and
supplies will have to be overcome before
production figures can approach their pre-
war and wartime figures.

(Left) An underground worker in the pits at the Neu-
muehl mine in Hamborn; (above right) a view of the
Neumuehl works; (below right) a group of miners

play cards after a day in the pits. Photos by Byers

--- Page 19 ---
Effect of Economic Merger

Anglo-American Agreement Envisions Self-Sufficient Area by 1949;
British Zone to Supply Raw Materials Vital to US Zone Production

(The benefits expected trom the economic
merger of the British and US Zones were
detailed in an official announcement by
the Economics Division, OMGUS, on the
formal inauguration of the joint operation
on 1 January.)

The population in the British Zone is
about one-third greater and indigenous food
production 15-20 percent less per capita
than in the US Zone. Consequently, neces-
sary food imports are very much greater in
the British than in the US Zone. On the
other side, the British Zone has a cor-
respondingly greater export potential.

In order to share the proceeds of the
greater exports from the British Zone, it is
also necessary to share the initial cost of the
larger food imports until the Germans can
pay for them themselves from their exports.
The British Zone with the Ruhr coal which
is Germany’s basic export industry has, also,
the larger food deficit. The initial liability
for the greater food requirements of the
British Zone goes with the greater export
assets of the Ruhr which are necessary to
make the US Zone self-sufficient.

To date the US Zone has shared Ruhr coal
without sharing the additional cost of food
imports in the British Zone, but neither Zone
has been able to develop substantial exports.
In merging with the British Zone, therefore,

the US Zone will incur an additional liability
for necessary food imports of about 130 mil-
lion dollars the first year. (Table 1)

As a result of joining the Zones, the US
Zone will share the greater export potential
of the British Zone in two ways.

First, the British Zone will supply raw
materials and semi-finished goods that are
absolutely vital to production in the US

, Zone to the extent of about 192 million dol-

Jars in 1947, 205 millions in 1948 and 212
millions in 1949 and in increasing amounts
thereafter. These materials will be available
to sustain production for export (Table 2) in
the estimated amount of 42 million dollars in
1947, 55 million dollars in 1948, and 62 mil-
lion dollars in 1949, the balance being
designed to sustain the internal economy at
levels which will permit realization of the
export program. This includes coal, steel,
non-ferrous metals, basic chemicals, and
semi-finished products for the export pro-
gram in the US Zone. Without the merger
the US Zone would have to import these
materials and pay for them in foreign ex-
change or continue importing food on a
disease and unrest basis with little prospect
of becoming self-sufficient. The US Zone
lacks the basic industries, coal, steel, non-
ferrous metals and basic chemicals which are
necessary in order to produce enough ex-
ports to pay for minimum essential food

Table 1: Estimated Balance of Trade 1947, 1948, 1949 — Combined US and British Zones
(in millions of dollars)

]| ]

1 Imports including Food | Net
oa | and Raw Materials | Exports Balance

i
1947 1042 350 -692
1948 i 975 | 675 300
1949 | 900 | 900 _

16

--- Page 20 ---
Table 2: US Zone — Import-Export Program (in millions of dollars)

. | Export Surplus over || US Gain from British
| Industrial Imports* | Industrial Imports Zone supplying
Year oe | Exports ape Materials for US Zone
Combined | Independent } Independent | Combined Exports
1947 |, 142 100 | 100 42 0 42
1948 | 155 100 | 200 45 100 55
1949 | = 187 125 | 275 88 150 62

*The difference between “independent” and “combined” represents the coal and other raw materials supplied
by the British Zone for the export program from the US Zone.

imports; it can become self-sufficient, there-
fore, only by obtaining these supplies from
the British Zone.

Second, in addition to materials supplied
to the US Zone for the production of ex-
ports, the US Zone will share fully the
greater export industries of the British Zone
itself. This benefit will grow as exports are
increased. On the basis of the accepted ex-
port plan, the US share of exports from the
British Zone itself will increase from 125
million dollars in 1947 to approximately 235
million dollars in 1948 and 315 million dol-
lars in 1949. (Table 3)

Thus, by merging with the British Zone
and sharing the liability for greater food
imports for two years, the US Zone can
become a part of a self-sufficient area. With-
out the merger the US Zone faces the pros-
pect of a deficit indefinitely. By sharing
fully the greater export potential of the
British Zone, not only can the deficit be
eliminated, but it will be possible for the

combined Zones to return the working
capital advanced under the program by the
US and British Governments.

On balance, the net cost to the US will be
increased substantially the first year; ex-
ports from the combined Zones of 675 mil-
lion dollars in 1948 will leave the current
deficit about unchanged; in 1949, exports of
900 million dollars will eliminate the deficit.

In order to achieve the export program it
is necessary, initially, to provide funds for
importing raw materials to be used to pro-
duce exports: On the US side, it is planned to
do this with moderate inventory advances from
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and
with the proceeds of exports. Consequently,
the total food import requirements for the
area are to be supplied in decreasing
amounts from appropriated funds in equal
shares by the United States and the United
Kingdom.

The alternative facing the US is:

1. The prospect of a deficit for an in-

Table 3: Exports — US Zone and Combined Area (in millions of dollars)

| i Half lus Gain from Sharing
Year | Exports US Zone} Combined Area | : a | Greater Exports from
F | | Combined Area | British Z
\ Its. one
1947 100 350 | 175 75
1948 200 675 | 337 137
1949 275 900 450 175

17

--- Page 21 ---
definite period owing to the fact that the
US Zone cannot produce enough food to
prevent disease and unrest, and lacks the
coal, steel, and raw materials needed to
produce enough exports to pay for minimum
essential food imports; or,

2. Sharing the cost of food imports for the
larger population in the British Zone in
return for a share of the greater export
potential of the British Zone, whereby the
combined area can be made self-sufficient.

The present rate of exports from the com-

bined US-UK Zones is at an annual rate of
roughly 100 million dollars, the major part
of which is Ruhr coal. The 1947 goal is to
triple this amount and to steadily increase
exports further during 1948 and 1949. The
1949 target is exports nine times current
levels or more if possible. It is recognized
that these are target figures which will
require a prodigious effort to realize, but it
is only in this way that the bizonal area can
exist and pay for the minimum necessary
food imports without external assistance.

Bavarian Restitution Program Reviewed

One of the most valuable shipments of art
ever to leave the Munich collecting point was
made recently by the Fine Arts and Monu-
ments Section of OMG Bavaria, when 1,009
items were returned to the Hungarian National
Museum in Budapest. Among the items were
654 paintings and 55 pieces of sculpture, in-
cluding such masterpieces as: “Portrait of a
Man” by Giorgione (valued at $3,000,000);
“Madonna” by Rafael; “St. Joseph’s Dream”
by Rembrandt; “Portrait of a Man” by Ru-
bens; “Annunciation” by El Greco; and “Girl
with Jug” by Goya, as well as paintings by
Piombo, Duerer, Van Dyck, Titian, Tintoretto,
Cranach, Hals, and Murillo.

Indicative of the extent of the Nazi acquire-
ment of art in occupied countries are the fol-
lowing totals of items restituted from Bav-
aria as of 1 December 1946: France, 27,768;
Netherlands, 3,576; USSR, 2,281; Austria
(placed in custody of USFA) 1,731; Poland,
951; Czechoslovakia, 5,425; Belgium, 117;
and Greece, one. Many of these units consist
of collections which run the total individual
pieces restituted into millions.

The more spectacular and easier tasks of
the art restitution project, consisting pri-
marily of returning large collections and im-
portant pieces readily identified as to owner-
ship, are now nearing completion. The most
important work for the future lies in locating
works of art which were taken from occu-
pied countries by the Nazis but which have

18

not been located in the many repositories
so far discovered throughout Bavaria.

Still missing are many important art
items, such as a Cracow Rafael and several
valuable Austrian tapestries; however, many
sources of art, such as dealers’ collections
and museums, have not yet been thoroughly
searched. All works of art procured from
occupied countries during the war have been
frozen in the hands of their present owners
and all are subject to restitution, regardless
of the method of acquirement. Most of the
reputable dealers have already submitted in-
ventories of items which they acquired from
those sources.

Since the first restitution from Munich
was made in August 1945, some $350,000,000
worth of cultural items have been returned
to claimant countries. Among the more im-
portant items so far restituted have been the
Holy Roman Emperors’ crown jewels, once
possessed by Frederick Barbarossa and in-
cluding Charlemagne’s “Book of Gospel”,
which were returned to Austria; the famed
“Veit Stoss Altar Piece” from the Cracow
Cathedral; the Leonardo Da Vinci “Lady in
Ermine”, also to Poland; Michelangelo’s
“Madonna and Child” from Bruges; Rafael’s
“Madonna and Child”, returned to Hungary;
and Vermeer’s “Artist in his Studio” (for
which an American financier is reported to
have offered $2,400,000), restituted to Aus-
tria.

--- Page 22 ---
Deficiency in Three-Zone Area
Revealed by Nutrition Survey

The Combined Nutrition Survey made in
the British, French, and US Zones during the
first part of December showed that, while
part of the population of the cities of the
three Zones was in a fairly good nutritional
state, a significantly larger proportion was
in an unsatisfactory condition, and an in-
creasing number of this latter group showed
signs of severe undernutrition. Starvation of
the population, as the term is generally under-
stood, was not found to exist.

The report of the survey stated that in a
large measure the unsatisfactory condition
was the result of ration cuts in the spring of
1946 which prevented the accumulation of
body reserves by the consumption of seasonal
non-rationed food, which instead had to be
used to make up for deficits in the official
ration. Therefore the majority of the pop-
ulation faced the winter with an appreci-
ably lower nutritional reserve than was the
case in 1945. Ration scales were considered
to be still inadequate. Although restored to
or approaching previous levels, they were
not always met.

German adults were found to be under-
weight, and in almost every instance weights
were significantly lower than a year ago.
Although children under seven did not appear
to have been affected by the food shortage,
the growth and development of those between
seven and fourteen years was considered un-
satisfactory. Hunger edema showed an in-
crease, and, although mild in degree, was
considered to be an indication of the vulner-
able state of health and nutrition in the
groups in which it was found. School feed-
ing programs, official and voluntary, were
cited as being of great value in preventing
further deterioration in the nutritional state
of those children who receive these special
meals,

19

The underground miner was founds
receiving an adequate ration, but in the Ruhr
neither his physical condition nor his pro-
duction of coal was commensurate with the
ration, undoubtedly due to the fact that part
of his food was shared with his family. This
conclusion was supported by the situation in
the French Zone, where, due to the provision
of extra rations for their families, the miners
are in better physical condition and produce
more coal.

Household stocks of reserve foods and
items suitable for barter, available during the
previous winter, were found to be largely
exhausted, which would mean that a large
part of the population will be mainly de-
pendent upon the official ration until next
summer’s crops become available.

Plant Protection

The San Jose Scale, one of America’s most
common prevalent types of plant-destroying
insects, has been discovered in Germany, but
by establishing a quarantine of infected areas
and inspecting all fruit and ornamental nurs-
eries in the four zones, the Food and Agri-
culture Committee of the Allied Control
Council is attempting to stamp out this pest
before it spreads throughout the country.

The only quarantined area in Germany
today is a strip of land approximately 50
miles long and three miles wide lying along
the border of the American and French Zones
near the town of Speyer. Since its discovery
last summer the transport of fruit and plants
outside the infected area has been prohibited,
and by means of destroying the badly in-
fected plants and spraying the less infected
ones the spread of San Jose Scale has been
checked. In addition, plants now transported
within the quarantined area must first be
subjected to a thorough inspection.

As a result of investigation, Plant Pro-
tection Stations in each zone have been in-

--- Page 23 ---
structed to make an inspection of all nurs-
eries and parent plants and to report the
results of the inspection to the Central Bio-
logical Institute in Berlin. Also, if San Jose
Scale is discovered, a quarantine is to be
established in such areas and stringent meas-
ures taken to destroy the insect.

Broadcasts to USSR

“The Voice of the United States of America”
will be heard in the Soviet Union late in
January, according to plans being made by
the State Department’s International Broad-
casting Division in Washington.

The broadcasts, originating in New York,
will be relayed over three 85,000-watt trans-
mitters of the station in Munich, Germany,
which have been beaming American broad-
casts to Central and Eastern Europe since
15 December.

The Munich station will broadcast in the
Russian language well-balanced programs of
news, music, and commentaries on cultural
subjects.

At the close of the war it was estimated
that there were between 75,000 and 100,000
short wave receiving sets in Russia, but it is
now believed that many more sets have since
been built.

Transport Aid Ended

The US Army transport service, major
factor in the wood distribution program con-
ducted in the US Zone, was discontinued on
1 January. During a two-months period end-
ing 1 December, 40 percent of the 4,500,000
cubic meters of cord wood for domestic uses
throughout the US Zone, authorized by the
Food and Agriculture Branch of the Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, had been delivered
to the cities.

OMGUS considers success of the wood
burning program vital to the German econ-
omy since use of the product is almost en-
tirely confined to the cooking of food and is
finding its maximum utilization as a coal
substitute. Army transportation figures show
movement of two-thirds of a ton of wood for

20

every one-third ton of foodstuffs, bearing out
the priority assigned to transportation of
forest products. |

Restoration Program

Ten war-damaged imporjant churches and
public buildings in the US Zone have been
tentatively selected for restoration to their
former condition with the help of Swedish
lumber and building materials. Negotiations
are now in progress with the Swedish Na-
tional Museum regarding a program for the
restitution of these cultural monuments, sug-
gested by Sweden and backed by leading
Swedish lumber companies.

Structures tentatively selected for resti-
tution include: St. Sebald’s Church (Nurem-
berg), St. Michael’s Church (Munich), St.
Lorenz Church (Nuremberg), Town Hall
(Augsburg), Stuftskirche (Stuttgart), Castle
Church of St. Michael (Pforzheim), Jesuit
Church (Mannheim), Cathedral (Frankfurt),
Castle (Weilburg/Lahn), and Roemerhaus
(Frankfurt). These structures have been
chosen by MG on a basis of relative inter-
national and local culture value, extent of
restoration required, and geographical dis-
tribution. Work will be allocated about
equally to ecclesiastical and secular structures.

Cold Halts Traffic

The late December cold weather brought
all traffic on the inland waterways of Ger-
many to a virtual standstill. The accumula-
tions of ice in the gorge between Bingen and
the Lorelei forced French Zone authorities to
close the Rhine. Craft on the Danube were
in winter harbors. Barge traffic on the canals
from Bremen to the US Zone and Berlin was
stopped.

The advent of winter also retarded rail
operations and shop repairs. Engines were
frozen, traffic was disrupted, and absenteeism
was high. Reduction of rail transportation
also resulted from crews being unable to
work because of shortages of clothing and
shoes. Truck transport for carrying food
and firewood to the cities also was hampered
by the cold weather.

--- Page 24 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

Of the total number of cases involving
serious crimes in Wuerttemberg-Baden for
the month of November, Germans were
found responsible for 78.1 percent, DP’s for
13 percent, expellees 6.6 percent, and
members of the occupation forces 2.3 percent.

In the first two weeks of December, ap-
proximately 28,500 metric tons of food for
the Germans in US-occupied areas arrived
at Bremen from the US.

Preliminary figures for crop deliveries in
the US Zone at the end of November show
the following percentages of quotas planned
tor delivery by that date: breadgrains, 92
percent; barley, 69 percent; oats, 36 per-
cent; and potatoes, 72 percent. Although
the distribution plan for cellarage of the
winter supplies of potatoes will not be
entirely fulfilled, enough potatoes have
been collected to fill minimum winter cel-
tarage requirements in the large cities.

COAL ALLOCATIONS

Coal allocations for the US and British
Zones for January compare to the November
allocation period as follows: for export,
minus 24 percent; for the three Western
Zones of Germany, plus 2.5 percent; and for
Austria, plus five percent. About two per-
cent less coal in hard coal equivalent was
allocated for January for these consumers
than in November.

Of the 1,500 tons of road tar recently
allocated by British authorities for use in
the maintenance of highways in the US Zone,
Bavaria will get 650 tons, Hesse 500 tons,
and Wuerttemberg-Baden 350 tons.

As of 22 December, 532 gas generators
nave been installed on rebuilt US military
cargo trucks now operating in the German
transportation economy.

A central electric power load dispatcher
1s functioning at Hoechst under the direction
of the Bizonal Executive Committee for
Economics. On the basis of reports from
both zones, the load dispatcher makes al-
1ocations and establishes priorities for the

21

use of electric power in both zones. A Land
toad dispatcher is directed to hold consump-
tion to a given amount, which is sub-
allocated to areas arranged according to
transmission lines. If it becomes necessary
to effect a curtailment, the area load dis-
patchers are authorized to switch off
circuits.

Processing of cotton imported from the
US is falling behind schedule on account of
a reduction of the electric power supply in
the US Zone.

REPARATIONS SHIPMENTS

Reparations shipments of 85 tons of equip-
ment from the Fritz Mueller machine tool
plant at Oberesslingen were made recently
to Czechoslovakia. To the Soviet Union
went 92 tons of general purpose equipment
trom the Collis Metallwerke in Hesse and
more than 500 tons of equipment from the
3% plants allocated as advance reparations.

In the US Zone there are currently more
than 11,000 cooperatives, of which credit
cooperatives comprise 47 percent, electrical
products 16 percent, dairy products 15 per-
cent, livestock two percent, poultry one
percent, and other products 18 percent.

FOREIGN TRADE TRANSACTIONS

Foreign trade transactions in the US
Zone for the week ending 13 December were
as follows: for exports, contracts made
totaled 11,800 dollars, deliveries were made
worth 140,575 dollars, and _ collections
amounted to 196,050 dollars; as for imports,
deliveries were received valued at 155,150
dollars, and payments made totaled 30,755
dollars.

The German staff of editors, rewrite men,
and reporters of DENA, licensed German
news agency, have been permitted to retain
their present degree of freedom in exercising
news judgment for another 30 days, but US
press control officers will continue post-
transmission scrutiny of news and feature
files.

--- Page 25 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

Compressed Gas Cylinders

OMGUS letter, AG 010.6 (ED), “Compres-
sed Gas Cylinders,” dated 27 December 1946,
refers to the Allied Control Authority policy
paper requiring check on the origin of com-
pressed gas cylinders when they are sub-
mitted for refill in order to determine wheth-
er there has been compliance with quadri-
partite provisions for restitution.

The OMGUS letter also notes the required
implementation that appropriate German
governmental authorities should be issued
instructions to insure that a continuous
survey—is_made at collecting points and a
monthly report is made of compressed gas
cylinders of foreign origin.

ACA instruction and report form on this
subject are shown in OMGUS letter of the
same file and subject, dated 30 December
1946.

MG Law No. 2 Amended

General Authorization No. 1 pursuant to
Regulation No. 1 under MG Law No. 2 is
quoted in OMGUS letter 010.6 (AG) of the
same subject, dated 28 December 1946, in
implementation of US policy and previous
OMGUS letters concerning MG and civil
government relationships. The new authori-
zation reads:

Article 1 — General authorization under
Section 5 (b) of Regulation No. 1 under
Military Government Law No. 2 is here-
with granted for entries upon the ap-
propriate public registers recording — the
opening, establishment, or creation of a new
firm by a single owner, or by a partnership,
limited partnership, joint stock company,

No
to

limited liability or other corporation, ship-
owner’s association, cooperative, association
of cooperatives, trade association, or other
association or organization of any kind,
provided that the opening, establishment,
or creation of any such organization, men-
tioned above, has been permitted by the Min-
ister-President of the Land.

Article 2 — Nothing contained hergin
shall be construed as conferring upon the
Minister-President any powers, not other-
wise held by him, to permit the opening,
establishment, or creation of any organiza-
tion mentioned in Article 1.

American Periodicals

Seven American newspapers and mag-
azines have been licensed by the US Treasury
for sale in Germany to the German popula-
tion, according to OMGUS directive, AG 451
(IC), “American Publications Licensed for
Sale in Germany,” dated 3 January 1947.
These are: Herald Tribune (Paris edition),
New York Times (Overseas Weekly), News-
week, Time, Life, Reader’s Digest, and
Omnibook.

The directive says these publications will
be deposited in blocked accounts and used
to meet expenses in Germany. It also says:

“The content ‘of these publications will
not be censored by Military Government;
hence responsibility for avoidance of objec-
tionable content rests with the American
publisher.”

Military Missions

The personnel of the Allied Military
Missions accredited to the Allied Control
Authority, Berlin, are listed in OMGUS let-
ter, AG 091.112 (SG), “Allied Military Mis-
sions,” dated 27 December 1946. The letter
adds that “The US Element, Allied Liaison
& Protocol Sections, is official point of contact
between these Missions and all echelons of
Military Government.”

--- Page 26 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

View on 20th July Plot

Noting that he has recently been attacked
. by some Berlin papers for his previous
article on the 20th of July (1944) participa-

tors in a bomb plot against Hitler, Eric ~

Reger, editor of the US licensed Tages-
spiegel, elaborated on his earlier charges.

Reger claimed that both the answers by
Jacob Kaiser of the CDU and Anedore Leber
of the SPD show a “lack of historical sense.”
Noting that his critics had asked him what
he did during the Hitler period, Reger poin-
ted out he had never claimed to be a “hero”
during the Nazi time, though at the same
time he had never sought exemption from
collective guilt and responsibility.

According to Reger, a new book on the
20 July incident, “The Way To The Bitter
End” by Hans Bernd Gisevius, shows that
the affair was carried through at the last
moment only because the participants felt
they had been discovered and therefore felt
they had to go through with the last act.
Noting that Gisevius has claimed that
Schacht was the leading man on the civilian
side of the plot, and pointing out further
that there is nothing to prove that this isn’t
so, Reger advised that if one follows the line
of those who glorify the 20th of July then
one must at the same time call Schacht today
the soul of the resistance movement.

Reger cited Gisevius furthur as claiming
that the generals of the 20th July attempt
were more afraid of the consequences of the
war than of showing disloyalty to the Nazis.

“This might be the real reason for the
actions of these Hamlets: they were always
in conflict between the idea that war in
principle is all right but one might lose it.
and the idea that one must fulfill his duties,”
declared Reger. He further cited Gisevius
to the effect that the first thought of. these
men, even after the Stalingrad -defeat,-was

that militarism must be saved by overthrow-
ing Hitler.

Regarding the civil
pitz, Reger declared tk e
to liquidate the totalitarian regime, though
they had the uncertain feeling that at least
for a transitional period one could not re-
nounce totalitarian methods.

Reger pointed out that the broad mass of
the German people knew almost nothing
about the 20th July movement, and therefore
one must characterize the men in it as being
a “selected” group. The present glorification
of these men, he concluded, is merely the
worshiping of shadows.

German Guilt Restated

In response to letters to Radio Berlin
criticizing the station for its short program
citing various Nazi atrocities and actions,
Deputy Station Head Wilhelm Girnus point-
ed out that all these facts are well known
abroad, which cannot be denied, and which
the Germans must never forget. Girnus
stated that the Germans cannot banish
suspicion of the other nations by stubbornly
denying these crimes, but, on the other hand,
by bringing these crimes to the attention of
the German people one helps clean the Ger-
man house of the dirt Hitler brought into it.

“I~ was not other people who forced this
war on Germany, but it was the National So-
cialistic Germany which forced this terrible
conflict on other nations and brought death
and trouble into these countries,” continued
Girnus. “I am sorry to say that very few
Germans have a correct idea of the sufferings
and distress the Germans inflicted on other
people. Otherwise they would know that all
the things we have to bear at the present
are a child’s play compared to what has been
done to others. Hh! SE

“And that is why Germany must first of
all bear the costs of this war. It is bitter
truth, but the German people musi not de-
ceive themselves over this fact. And the less

--- Page 27 ---
that certain parts of the German people show
themselves inclined to adopt a lesson, the less
other peoples will be prone to have con-
fidence in us and the harder the peace treaty
will be,” advised Girnus.

Observing that the station has received
threatening letters for its broadcasts, Girnus
warned that such threats will not stop the
programs from being transmitted, for if the
spirit in the letters corresponds to that of the
majority of the German people, the end of
Germany is sealed. Fortunately, concluded
Girnus, there are millions of German who
think differently and recognize those
mistakes which plunged Germany into the
catastrophe.

Frontier Stand Assailed

Commenting on the New Year messages of
various German politicians, the US-licensed
Tagesspiegel in Berlin found that the hopes,
complaints, and apprehensions expressed
therein are rather shallow and take no note
of the reasons for Germany’s present misery.

“By no means does one talk of guilt and
atonement,” declared the paper, pointing out
that the parties support this current attitude.
As an example, the paper noted that Konrad
Adenauer, CDU leader, declared no Christian
Democratic politician would sign a peace
treaty which recognizes the Oder-Neissen
line as the final frontier.

“One must make a difference here: it is
quite a different thing to talk objectively on
the question of the future German frontiers,
or to try to gain popular effects by vain
threats,” said the paper, further observing
one should be cautious in making such state-
ments as that one which claims Germany
cannot live without the Saar. The paper
noted that Germany lived without the Saar
for 15 years.

Stating the editors are of the same opinion
as that of US Secretary of State Byrnes, that
no territory which is entirely German or
whose population votes to remain with Ger-
many should be separated from Germany,
the paper warned about protests which bear

24

much resemblance to a real nationalistic
agitation.

“What is reached by such agitation is just
the contrary to what one wants to reach,”
observed the paper, contending that such an
attitude as Adenauer’s becomes dangerous for
everyone.

Disarmament Program

The Foreign Ministers’ agreement on dis-
armament was acclaimed by Das Zeit Echo
(Schwaebisch Hall). After itemizing the
death statistics of the recent war, the editor-
ial said:

“Perhaps this enormous price was neces-
sary to awaken the conscience of the world.
Tt is idle to reflect whether some other way
might not have been found, since we cannot
turn back the wheel of history. But we can
finally learn to understand the accumulation
of those millions of dead. The victors of
this, we hope, last war, are doing that. Step
by step, international politics is abandoning
the atmosphere of mutual suspicion. Along-
side runs the mutual understanding of na-
tions on an ever broader basis, and all signs
proclaim that with the close of this year
(1946), an entire (bloody) era of mankind
will come to an end.”

Black Market Assailed

Strong action by the German authorities
against black market activities was demanded
by the Schwaebische Donau Zeitung (Ulm)
in a fiery editorial entitled “The Ulcer.” It
said;

“We should not deceive ourselves —
neither the Control Council nor the Military
Government will do this work for us. While
France is striking the death blow against the
European cancer of the postwar period, with
the sharpest of all medicines, the death sen-
tence — while Italy threatens its black mar-
keteers with internment camps, people in
Germany shrug away the black market as a
necessary accompaniment of any goods
shortage.”

--- Page 28 ---
Peak Production and Increased
Foreign Trade Seen for 1947

Optimism over the outlook for US do-
mestic and foreign trade in 1947 was the
keynote of year-end statemenis by govern-
ment officials, business leaders, and economic
analysts in the United States.

Some notes of caution and uncertainty
were sounded, but the consensus of reviews
and forecasts pointed to new peaks of pro-
duction and prosperity in many key in-
dustries, if prices could be held in line and
major strikes avoided.

Keen Johnson, Under-Secretary of Labor,
in a nation-wide broadcast, rejected “the
fatalism of boom and bust” and declared that
the American people are resolved that
“neither blind chance nor raw economic
power shall determine our national welfare.”
Johnson denied that a depression is inevit-
able so long as full production and equitable
distribution are maintained within the frame-
work of a free society.

In the international field, Arthur Paul.
director of the Office of International Trade
and assistant to the Secretary of Commerce,
said that 1946 was an outstanding year for
American foreign trade, and that 1947 would
see substantial increases in US exports and
imports.

Similar views were expressed by private
analysts writing in leading American jour-
nals. The New York Herald Tribune's
Raymond Hoadley declared that foreign
trade experts feel that imports should be
higher. They want to see foreign trade a
two-way thoroughfare of lasting commerce,
with American purchases balancing American
sales,

In a special section devoted to foreign
trade outlook, Herald Tribune writers stated
that export-import business is more favorable
now than after World War I and will be help-
ed by the expected large increase in foreign

25

loans from both pz
sources,

On the domestic front, the year “¥9
one in which business activity, sales, and
profits were above best prewar years, the
Department of Commerce reported. With
liquidation of war production, the trend of
aggregate output was downward in the early
part of the year, but expansion characterized
the situation thereafter.

Industrial production in 1946 was down
from big prewar years. The Federal Reserve
Board’s index of industrial production
(1936-1939 equals 100) fell to an estimated
average of 171 for 1946, from 203 in 1945
and the wartime high of 239 in 1943.
However, despite reconversion problems, US
industry turned out more goods than in pre-
war 1941 when the index averaged 162, and
the volume of output was markedly above
the 1929 peak.

Statements of individual business leaders
on prospects were weighted on the optimistic
side:

Irving S. Olds, sieel executive, declared
the opportunity for a sustained period of
general national prosperity seemed pro-
mising, if strikes and fauliy economic actions
do not stand in the way.

David Sarnoff, radio executive, saw 1947
as America’s first major television year and
said that the industry is now ready to move
forward as a service to the public.

Joseph W. Frazer, Detroit automobile
maker, predicted the automobile industry
would produce 5,000,000 cars and have no
difficulty in marketing them.

According to Alexander Calder of the
paper industry, “all reliable information in-
dicates that 1947 should be one of the best
years the paper industry has ever experien-
ced.” We

The farm outlook was also seen in favor-
able perspective by a leading economic ana-
lyst, who stated that, pending a weather

--- Page 29 ---
upset, more bushels of corn and wheat will
be. raised than ever before in American
history. Although some prices may slide off,
~ experts expect farm income to maintain its
present high levels. According to present
forecasts, dairy and poultry products will
continue to increase in volume with no in-
crease in price, but fats, sugar, and some
canned goods will continue in short supply.

The labor and price questions provided
an uncertain note in most reviews. But even
here, the outlook was seen as comparatively
bright in most cases.

In spite of current and prospective de-
mands on automobile, steel, oil, textile, and
other major industries, competent observers
believed that labor leaders are keenly aware
of the fact that strikes of last spring did not
pay off, and that they will approach the
bargaining table in 1947 with a genuine de-
sire “to do business” in a spirit of give and
take.

In the same way, Henry A. Wallace,
former Secretary of Commerce and now edi-
tor of New Republic, warned labor today
against extensive strikes in the new year.
In an editorial entitled “The Challenge of
1947,” Wallace said that genuine peace bet-
ween labor and management held the greatest
promise for prevention of a depression in
1947.”

Personnel of Occupation

“What type of men is America sending to
Germany to handle occupation policies?”
asked Hal Boyle, veteran Associated Press
reporter of the European war and occupation
of Germany, in one of a series of articles
following his return to the United States.
In answering this question, his article con-
tinued:

“In Germany during the last summer I
found American administrative officers piti-
ably eager to get good men for the jobs at
their disposal. I talked with many Army
officers who wanted older, more stable sol-
diers ‘better able to settle down and take
care of themselves than the green. kids we
are getting.’

“The American Military Government has
lost thousands of the business executives,
public engineers, city officials, educators, and
attorneys who prepared in wartime Army
schools for the task of governing occupied
territory.

“When the war ended most went back
home to their families on the first boat they
could get on,’ said one who stayed behind.

“So American Military Government had to
take a skeleton staff of the veterans who re-
mained and around this nucleus build up all
over again at the most critical period of the
occupation.

“In small German cities far from the main
policy-making centers, young American com-
bat veterans, drafted from regular Army
duties, have had to take over functions of
government with which they are unfamiliar.

“Yet you can’t watch these men at work
without feeling that a majority are doing
the best they can. They work long hours.
They get bitter over all-embracing criticisms
in the American press of the caliber of men
in their branch of service.

“To fill the vancanies in key headquarters
posts vacated by trained men who went back
home to better paying executive jobs, autho-
rities have had to hire where they could.
Many discharged enlisted men and Army
officers of ability have remained. Government
officers in Washington have hired others and
sent them over.

“Most are trained, serious men. Others
aren’t, A number are adventurers and car-
petbaggers and will privately admit they
‘came over for the ride.’

“The standard of honesty is that of any
large group of Americans in a position to
‘make a little extra.” The days of major
carpetbagging are over, but I still couldn't
name a man or woman I met in two months
in Germany who wasn’t willing to ‘trade
with the enemy’ at least to the extent of ex-
changing cigarettes and candy bars for sou-
venir bric-a-brac.

“Anything beyond that, however, is sub-
ject to vigilant inquiry by the Army’s own
internal police system.”

--- Page 30 ---
THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY (Continued from page 10)

to meet normal requirements, due to an
extreme shortage of fats and oils. No relief
is anticipated until normal imports of these
items can be resumed: meanwhile, to fore-
stall epidemics due to lack of soap, every
effort is being made to collect used fats and
to expand the production of synthetic de-
tergents.

SYNTHETIC RUBBER PRODUCTION

The production of synthetic rubber, an
industry forbidden in Germany by quadri-
partite decree, has been authorized tempo-
rarily by the Allied Control Council until
funds are available for necessary rubber
The US Zone is currently produc-
ing about 28,000 automobile and truck tires
per month, an insufficient number to meet
the zone’s requirements. US Army vehicles
and tires were made available late in 1946
to ease transportation shortages somewhat,

imports.

but a permanent solution to the problem is
still being sought.

An entirely different problem faced by US
MG in connection with the chemical indus-
try is the control or elimination of chem-
ical production having definite or potential
war uses. By order of the Control Council,
the production of chemicals of a strictly
military nature is forbidden. These include:
all high explosives except those required
for peacetime uses; double base propellants;
single base propellants except those for use
in sporting weapons; nitroguanidine; rocket
fuels, including hydrogen peroxide of above
37 percent concentration, hydrazine hydrate,
and methyl nitrate; highly toxic products
from bacteriological or plant sources, except
those for therapeutic purposes. Other chem-
icals of war potential which are required
for peacitime uses may be produced, but are
to be kept under rigid control.

CONTROL OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH (Continued from page 12) :

notification is required for all other applied
scientific research, and for fundamental re-
search in fields where applied research is
prohibited but fundamental research is per-
mitied. Other fundamental scientific research
in an authorized institution requires only a
report every four months.

Fundamental research of a primarily mil-
itary nature is very rare, if it exists at all.
Fundamental research may sometimes pro-
ceed more rapidly using apparatus which
would be valuable for applied research of a
military nature, but there is very little of it
which would be greatly inconvenienced by
limitation to smaller apparatus. Thus only
very little academic or fundamental research
is prohibited. The requirement of prior noti-
fication from fundamental projects on mat-
ters of high war potential gives MG the
chance to determine in advance whether such
projects are truly fundamental without ham-

27

pering research. On the other hand, applied
research on military matters is forbidden,
that on matters of a high war potential is
controlled, and all applied scientific research
is carefully watched. Stringent penalties are
to be imposed for detected breaches of re-
search control regulations.

DILLIGENCE AND CARE REQUIRED

The problem of controlling scientific re-
search and development in Germany has been
approached in a logical and practical manner,
and control limitations have been sensibly im-
posed. Successful results in the administra-
tion of control laws, however, depend to a
marked degree upon the personnel who are
chosen for the operation, for only through
constant diligence and extreme care in the
granting of licenses, plus intelligent investi-
gations, can scientific research be guided
into and maintained in proper channels.

--- Page 31 ---
NEW GERMAN CIVIL SERVICE (Continued from page 7)

The German Civil Service was officially
born during the reign of Frederick Wil-
helm I, who became the second king of the
Prussian State in 1713. A voluminous set
of rules and instructions described the status
of this class of State officials; titles were
bestowed, classified into 142 grades; and
these titles, with changes and additions, have
been passed down to contemporary Germany
and were jealously cherished by Germans.

As German society became more complex
and German jurisprudence emerged from
the fusion of old Roman and Germanic laws,
the need for better educated civil servants
arose, and, aside from the clergy, such
education could be afforded only by the
upper class. The result of this situation
was the creation of a caste system, which
has existed continously in the German Civil
Service down through the Nazi regime. In
the original stage, wealthy families usually
considered one of two careers for their sons:
civil service or the military, with the two rank-
ing equally in prestige and social standing.

PROGRESS PRIOR TO NAZI REGIME

After the unification of Germany in 1871
under Bismarck, the national government
took the lead in the further development of
German Civil Service, although the individ-
ual state and national systems remained
separate until the advent of Hitler. During
the period from 1871 to 1933, volumes of
basic law pertaining to rights, privileges,
duties, discipline, etc. were enacted. In the
latter. part of the nineteenth century a great
impetus developed toward pension protec-
tion, afield in which the Germans have
always been far ahead of other countries,
and toward administrative and disciplinary
court procedures, which are uniquely Euro-
pean and principally German.

During the Hitler era no undesirable
features of the civil service were removed,
and much efficiency was eliminated by the
injection of Nazi ideology. At the time
Hitler took over the government, the service
was composed of a class-conscious group of

28

officials, jealous of their rights and priv-
ileges and secure under the cloak of life
tenure to a point where it was all but impos-
sible to dismiss them. They made up the
most important single agency within the
government because of their monopoly on
knowledge of state affairs and techniques.
They were not recruited competitively, but
rather on a basis of an extensive academic
training which only members of the upper
class could afford. They owed allegiance
not to the people but to the State, based
on the old German philosophy that the
people exist for the State instead of the
State for the people. Realizing the inherent
power entrenched in the German Civil
Service, Hitler allowed the power of the
organization to remain, but strove to harness
it and direct it to his own ends. He placed
trusted Nazis in most of the key positions,
especially in those controlling personnel,
and thus created situations unbearable to
many independent thinkers, who eventually
resigned or retired. Others were removed
through disregard for the established rules
of procedure.

In 1937 all German law directly pertain-
ing to civil service was codefied into one law
known as the Beamtengesetz of 1937, which
unified the national and state systems into
one civil service and assured Hitler maxi-
mum control of all. public officials from the
Reich government down to the smallest Ge-
meinde.

Such was the history of the German Civil
Service-and the problems encountered by
MG in attempting to democratize an organ-
ization with such a history were numerous
and obvious. But in considering what has
been accomplished, the results to date are
more striking when viewed against this
background.

Hope for a more desirable future develop-
ment of the German Civil Service lies in
the possibilities of the democratic evolution
of a technically outsanding German system,
through procedures which will become habit-
forming in their democratic methods.