--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 73 / 23 DECEMBER 1946

CHRISTMAS FAIR

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
RG
OPF MARBU

LAUTERBACH
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
R Ri
xg FRIEDBERG\ Go cen a)
pees QBERTAUNUS|
NESBADEN
DIEBURG

=
MOSBACH

HEILBRONN

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

OFSHEIM

BRUCHSAW

Yad BACKNANG
PEORZHEIM

LEONBER

BOUBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

0
n Sion

BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Policy and Procedure for Officer Assigments .
Scarcity of Army Facilities in Czechoslovakia. .
Interzonal Travel of German Civilians 2 >.

Recommendations for the Economy ‘of Solid Fuel
Amendment of Military Government Regulations .

Transfer of Works of Art or Cultural Materials of Value

or Importance dl oH

Increase of Wages in the Coal Mining Industry.

’ Determination of a Special Tarif for Transport of Coal
through Germany Shipped from Poland and Czechoslo-
vakia to France .

Control Council Law No. 40, ‘Repeal of the Law of 20
January 1934 on ‘The Organization of Nationai Labor’ ”’

Employee Training Program .

AG 210.3 GAP- AGB
22 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 210.711 CLM-AGO
27 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 200.4 (IA)
27 Nov 1946, OMGUS

“AG 463.3 (ED)

29 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (MD)
3 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 007 (ED)
6 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 463.3 (MD)
6 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 012.4 (TD)
9 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (MC)
9 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 230.764 (PO)
12 Dec 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
CHRISTMAS FAIR — The picture on this week's
cover shows a portion of Berlin's Christmas
fair which is held annually in the square ad-
joining the Dom, fhe city’s largest church.
Despife current shortages of the gifts which
‘ate usually for sale, the fair is atfracting large
crowds of Berliners, particularly children.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Walter Hinrichsen, Music Control Olficer,
Olfice of the Director of Information Control
OMGUS, prepared the material for Music in
Germany. A former master sargeant, Mr.

Hinrichsen served with the 106th Division be-

fore joining OMGUS in October 1945.

The story “of the work of the Library of
Congress Mission will be found on page 14.
it was writien by 1. E. Nachman who served
with the Mission: until November 1946 at which
time he refurned to the United States.

Religious Affairs was written by Otto G.
Hoiberg, an Evangelical specialist, for Office
of Religious Affairs, E & RA Branch, 1A & C
Division, OMGUS. © Previous to serving with
MG, Mr. Hoiberg was an associate professor
of sociology at the South Dakota State College.

The material for Restoration of Churches
was submitted by Edward S. Peck, catalogues
Officer, Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives
Section, Restitution Branch, Economics Division.
The article describes the efforts which MF & A
and its German equivalent are doing to re-
store cultural buildings in the US Zone,

Photo. by Byers

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Religious Affairs

Music in Germany

Restoration of Churches

The Library of Congress Mission
The ACA Building

GENERAL

.GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

10
13

18
21
23

--- Page 7 ---
| eed of religious belief and worship,
and respect for ecclesiastical institutions
and practices are basic to a free society. The
maintenance of this freedom and respect is
the fundamental and exacting responsibility
of any democratic government, a responsibil-
ity which is particularly great in the case
of Germany today because of the scant ex-
perience which the German people and their
chosen leaders possess in democratic pro-
cedures.

The problems encountered by MG in its
work with German religious leaders and
institutions in the US Zone have been deep-
rooted and significant, complicated by the
numerous and close state-church relations
which have characterized the German
tradition. It was necessary for the Office of
Religious Affairs, OMGUS, to decide to what
extent American ideas on state-church
separation were to serve as a pattern for the
German people, whether church taxes, state
grants and subsidies, and religious instruc-
tion in public schools were to be continued.

POLICY LAID DOWN BY MG

The basic policy laid down by MG pro-
vided that all evidences of Nazism and
militarism were to be eliminated from the
German ecclesiastical scene and that anti-
democratic developments were not to be
permitted. Within this framework, however,
the Germans have the right to solve their
own religious problems in an atmosphere of
freedom. Thus, the Germans have been per-
mitted to retain or re-introduce their pro-
grams of church taxes, state subsidies, and
denominational schools, if they so desired.
Although MG officials felt that German
churches might benefit in the long run from
a complete separation of church and state, it
was believed even more firmly that any such
decision must be made by the German people
themselves, as part of their training in
democratic procedures.

In the program of denazifying the German
clergy, it has been estimated that slightly

Church-goers coming out of a Protestant
church in Munich atter a Sunday service,

less than four percent of all German church-
men were placed in the “Non-Employment
Mandatory” category by Special Branch
tabulators. Until the Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Militarism went
into effect, the German churches were, for
the most part, charged with the task of
cleansing their own organizations of Nazi
influences. As an example, the Evangelical
Church in Greater Hesse established its own
denazification tribunals and dismissed from
office 136 clergymen and major ‘church
employees. Under current procedures all
clergymen are subject to trial before ‘the
Spruchkammern established under the Ger-
man law.

Of the 354 clergymen still in churches
who were considered mandatory’ removal
cases in July, not one was active on
8 November without steps having been taken
where possible to try him. Of the 329 cler-
gymen whose trials had been completed by
8 November, not one’ was found to be a
Major Offender. Only 13 were found to be

Photo by Kaskel

--- Page 8 ---
Offenders and 59 Lesser Offenders (pro-
bationers).
: : Another factor dealt with by MG has been
: : the encouragement to establish associations
: e ry : : and an exchange of ideas between German
religious groups and those of other countries.
el | { O Cf S For twelve years the churches of Germany
: were cut off from spiritual contacts with
religious circles in other countries. Recently
o scores of religious leaders representing many
different denominations and sects in Amer-
a | rs . . ica and other countries have been permitted
oa to enter Germany for the purpose of con-
ferring with German churchmen. Further,
one permanent liaison representative of each
of the Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish faiths
of the United States is located in the US
Zone, and a special adviser on Jewish affairs
is attached to USFET headquarters in
Frankfurt.
On a less extensive scale, German
ecclesiastical dignitaries have been granted
permission to attend religious conferences in

(Continued on page 25)

A nunat a school in Groen-
bach, Bavaria, giving assist-
ancetoayoung pupil attend-
ing a class in handicrafts.

Photo by Kaskell

--- Page 9 ---
Gu had always been one of the
traditional homes of great music. Names
like Bach, Beethoven, Brahms, and Wagner
are sufficient evidence of that. But Adolf
Hitler, the greatest blunderer of all times,
succeeded in transforming the lush field of
German musical creativity into a barren
waste. Famous German and Austrian com-
posers like Hindemith, Toch, and Schénberg
were driven out of Germany to find refuge
in the United States where they continued to
write music, as did the Czeck composer,
Weinberger. Dozens of other fine musicians
went to England and other countries.

Kt is little wonder that nothing was pro-
duced in Germany during the Nazi regime.
for the musicians who remained were com-
pletely isolated from international develop-
ment. They could know nothing, for example.
of Walter Piston’s “Incredible Flutist,” com-
posed in 1940, or of the works of Harris.
Gould, Menotti, and other American com-

posers who accomplished some of their best
work during this period. In England, men
like Vaughan Williams and William Walton
were making important contributions to the
musical world, but German musicians were
busy writing music that was “psychological-
ly effective” to the Nazi cause rather than
producing something creative and of free ex-
pression. The siege of Leningrad gave birth.
to Shostakovich’s Seventh Symphony in 1941.
and Miaskovsky wrote his Twenty-first
Symphony for the fiftieth anniversary of the
Chicago Symphony Orchestra in 1940. The
Germans never heard them.

Hitler and Goebbels based their policy of
propaganda for the masses on the elementary
and undeniable forcefulness of constant rep-
etition, and since music, the films, and thea-
ter are an essential part of the traditional
daily life of the German people, the Nazi
leaders used them as powerful psychological
weapons to instill Nazi ideology and racial

--- Page 10 ---
propaganda in the minds and hearts of the
Germans. Military Government, on the other
hand, has been trying to establish good
psychological weapons with which to destroy
Nazism and promote a.genuine desire for a
democratic Germany through the same media.
For the first few months of activity, the
chief purpose of Information Control has
been one of scrutiny and general control, and
it is recognized that a more positive and re-
educational policy of operation will be of
greater advantage to the German people and
to Military Government in the fulfillment of
its task.

The Berlin Philharmonic is a US-licensed
orchestra. Reorganized soon after the oc-
cupation, this distinguished orchestra is now
giving regular concerts in Berlin and guest
performances in the British and Soviet Zones.
Two internationally known phonograph
recording manufacturers in Berlin have re-

Members ot the Staatsoper Company in a scene from
“Othello” during a performance of the opera in Munich.

ceived US licenses, the Lindstroem and Elec-
trola companies. Also, twelve music publish-
ers have been licensed in the US Zone. They
include the names of world-known houses

» which have been established for more than a

century, such as Bote and Bock, and Lienau
in Berlin, and Breitkopf and Haertel in
Wiesbaden. The internationally known
Peters Edition in Leipzig, founded in 1800,
has been recognized by the Soviet MG as
the property of an American citizen.

AMERICAN WORKS PRESENTED

Through the efforts of the US music of-
ficer of each Land, the difficulties in the pro-
curement of materials, personnel, heat, and
travel have been gradually reduced to a
minimum with the result that musical per-
formances are being given with increasing
regularity and success. During the past 13
months, 93 performances have been given of

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 11 ---
(Left) The cathedral at Ulm, which was
damaged by incendary bombs during the
war, has now been largely repaired.

he restoration of the many ancient cathe-

drals and churches in the US Zone of
Germany is the concern of the Monuments,
Fine Aris, and Archives Section of OMGUS:
and its German equivalent (Denkmalpflege).
Largely through the efforts of these groups,
about 35 churches have been completely re-
stored while restoration has been started o
116 others. More than 1250 famous struct
ures, of concern to the entire art world be
cause of their age and general cultural i
portance, have been examined and repo ‘
have been submitted to OMGUS. Of these,
419 are ecclesiastical buildings. Consider.
ing the extent of damage and the magnitude
of the task, this is a significant record.
should be pointed out, however, that 1
buildings, or approximately two-fifths of
important church structures in the Zone, s
fered no war damage whatsoever, and tl
include virtually all the South German »
asteries. &

ILLUSTRATION OF PROGRAM

The examples of a few individual churches
undergoing restoration serve to illustrate
the entire program. In Wuerttemberg-Baden,
where bomb damage was very extensive,
there are many instances of the effort t
rebuild the churches in spite of the shortagt
of material and the lack of transportatio
Posters depicting the ruined twelfth-centur}
Stiftskirche in Stuttgart appear all over
Land in an appeal for contributions for i
restoration. Sweden has expressed inter
in supplying wood for its reconstructio’
and it is hoped that stone masons and cai
penters will soon be available to work wil
the architects in restoring this monument.

--- Page 12 ---
The Muenster in Ulm, begun in 1377, is
one of the largest Gothic churches in Ger-
many, and in Germany second in size only
to the Cathedral of Cologne. One of the most
important churches in central Europe, it is
fortunate that it largely escaped injury in
the midst of shattered, medieval Ulm. It
possesses the loftiest church spire in the
world (528 ft.), completed in the nineteenth
century, and it contains a wealth of treasures
in sculpture, glass, and medieval frescoes.
The choir and the southern side aisle were
hit by bombs, but the latter has been largely
repaired.

CHURCH OF ST. KILIAN

In Heilbronn, Wuerttemberg, stands the
‘Church of St. Kilian, a magnificent Gothic
structure with a remarkable tower finished
in early Renaissance style. Among other
things, it is outstanding for its finely carved
altar. In December 1944 it was hit in an
air raid, and it suffered further damage dur-
ing the fight for the city at the end of the
war. Today, the walls and tower still stand,
but the vaults and many of the sculptures are
destroyed.

Along with the Ulm Muenster, the Cathe-
dral of Bamberg, Bavaria, is proably the
finest medieval church building in a relative-
ly undamaged state in Germany. One of
the grandest of Romanesque cathedrals, it
was begun in 1004 by Henry II, and took
its present form in the twelfth century. In
the city of Munich, noted in medieval times
for its countless old churches, the famous
rauenkirche fared much worse. Incendia-
ties destroyed the roof and walls, but the
great uncompleted twin towers, some sturdy

(Continued on page 28)

;

(Right) While the tower and the walls of
the Church of St. Kilian in Heilbronn still
stand, the interior is completely gutted.

--- Page 13 ---
he books in the average German library

in the spring of 1945, even though they
had escaped the ravages of war, could hardly
be considered conducive to a liberal educa-
tion. Any volumes written by Jews, for
example, no matter of what subject or treat-
ment, had been removed. Books of philos-
ophy, history, biography, even those of
science fand anthropology, which did not
reflect the perverted Nazi versions of these
fields had long before been rooted out. In
their places stood works advocating racial
discrimination, geopolitical studies, and
books glorifying the National Socialist Party
and its program. The elimination of this
poison that had filled German libraries for
over a decade was one of the important
tasks of the Allied Powers in cleaning Ger-
many of militaristic and Nazi ideologies.

HANDLING OF NAZI LITERATURE

The Library of Congress Mission, along
with other concerned groups in OMGUS such
as the ODIC and Education and Religious
Affairs, was instrumental in the planning
and drafting of Allied Control Authority
Order No. 4 and its amendments, which set
up a uniform procedure for all four zones
of occupation in the handling of Nazi litera-
ture. There are slight variations in detail
among the four powers but essentially the
procedure is the same. The Allies agreed
in principle that nationalistic and chauvin-
istic “Schund” (junk), as well as serious
Nazi works ranging from philosophy to

ee

--- Page 14 ---
COnGRESS MISsion

politics, should disappear from German
schools and public libraries. They were
determined, however, not to duplicate the
orgiastic book-burnings of the Nazis.

Our government had long recognized that
certain highly specialized book collections
were instruments of war and German
aggrandizement and, as such, were properly
confiscable. No libraries of cultural institu-
tions were disturbed, and in all cases
clearances for seizure were obtained from
field offices of Monuments, Fine Arts, and
Archives section, Restitution Branch. When,
for example, in Berlin a collecting center of
half a million books stolen by the Nazis in
eastern Europe was turned over to the
LCM, all books bearing an owner’s stamp
were sent to M.F.A. & A’s Archival Depot
in Offenbach for restitution, or to claimants
in Berlin who were able to substantiate their
claims. Several thousand other books had
originated from masonic and labor union
libraries of pre-nazi Berlin, still others had
belonged to the Library of the Berlin Jewish
congregation. It is expected that the full
list of confiscated targets and a complete
catalogue of the books secured will be issued
by the LCM in Washington upon the compie-
tion of the project.

MATERIAL FOR US LIBRARIES

A completely different phase of the
project began with the emergence of books
and publications which had been ordered by
American libraries but which, due to the
outbreak of the war, had not been delivered:
Many German publishers, counting on an
Allied victory, had continued to collect
material for American libraries throughout
the period of commercial isolation, and as
these bookdealers and publishers emerged
from the rubble of war to take inventory of
their remaining stocks, it became evident
that more had been salvaged than had been

11

anticipated. After several inspection trips
to Leipzig, the chief German publishing
center, and with the cooperation of the
American and the Soviet Armies, the books
began rolling towards Berlin and eventually
to the States. Approximately 250,000 dollars
worth of scientific books and periodicals
will thus be salvaged to the consequent
enrichment of American scientific
industrial research.

and

DEMAND FOR SCIENTIFIC WORKS

There was still another advantage to this
phase of the project. The German and MG
administrators were trying to balance im-
ports of food and raw materials against
necessarily scant exports. Bookdealers and
publishers had a commodity to offer for
which there was a considerable demand.
During the war, in addition to the so-called
“Tendenz,” or literature subservient to Nazi
requirements, important scientific works had
been published, and American individuals
and research institutions having professional
interest in the progress of science and tech-
nology in Germany were anxious to receive
material for study. Again, several expedi-
tions went to Leipzig to select and sub-
sequently transport to Berlin thousands of
dollars worth of books for which the Ameri-
can scientific world was waiting impatiently.
These were augmented by purchases through
German agents as well as LCM representa-
tives who went out on the not unpleasant
Job of scrounging in bookshops and anti-
quariats with funds advanced by the Finance
Division of OMGUS. In addition to im-
portant books and serials published during
the war, the LCM, due to the lack of normal
commercial channels, is required to buy
sufficient copiés of all new publications
currently appearing in Germany. This is
not always an easy task since communication
problems interfere, books appear in very

--- Page 15 ---
limited editions only, and centralization of
cataloguing has only been resumed recently.
Nevertheless, the LCM attempts to keep
abreast with all new publications, and tries
to make the American public conscious of
the progress Germany is making under the
guidance of-the four powers by gétting these
books back home on the shelves of libraries.
It is estimated that another 250,000 dollars
will be spent’ on purchases acquired by these
different methods.

BERLIN COLLECTING CENTER

ACA Order No. 4 resulted in the setting
up of a model collecting ‘and processing
center in Berlin, which ultimately was to be
a master library of Nazi literature. This
collection, which will probably become a
part of OMGUS Library, is intended: to
serve a twofold purpose. It will represent
an historical collection open to authorized
persons for research on the twelve years of
Nazi rule, and it will also be a powerful
instrument for use in democratic informa-
tional and educational activities. From the
LCM Berlin offices, initially located at the
Telefunken compound of Hq Berlin District,
a truck with a squad of transport workers
gathered daily the Nazi books, hundreds of
ithousands: of them, from ‘schools, public
‘Libraries, publishers, and borough educa-
tion offices. At first three different ware-
houses were used in which to catalogue and
shelve the books, but conditions were not
ideal. Now, the LCM is located in a 49-
room mansion in Berlin-Lankwitz, known
as the “Siemenshaus.” Being one of the
largest residences in Berlin, the Siemenshaus
offers ample space for efficient processing
and to date some 14,000 titles have been
catalogued and set up there. Duplicates are
preserved in multiple copies pending a pol-
icy decision. In one of the rooms of the
mansion the LCM is assembling a separate
catalogue of all publications that appeared
in Germany between 1939 and 1945. When
completed, this catalogue will be shipped
to the US where it will be preserved at the
Library of Congress. Cards in this catalogue
are expected to exceed 100,000.

12

The need for such an agency as the LCM
was indicated at the outbreak of the war.
‘When American libraries began to face in-
geeasing acquisition difficulties in Europe,
the Joint Committee on Importations, a non-
Sfficial agency to meet acquisition problems
wollectively, was set up. This committee,
however, did not send. any representatives to
Europe, and when America suddenly found
herself at war, it was discovered that print-
ed up-to-date information about the enemy
and about strategic places of the globe was
not available to the extent desired. In 1941
a forerunner of ‘the Library of Congress Mis-
sion, the Interdepartmental Committee for
the Acquisition of: Foreign Publications, was
formed to serve various government agen-
cies. When the end of the war was in sight,
publication-starved, non-governmental libra-
Ties began to put out feelers for a resump-
tion of normal foreign book traffic. It was
in September 1945, after several plans had
been under consideration, that the new Li-
brary ‘of Congress Mission was created.
Operational facilities were provided for, and
the Mission began to function under G-2
USFET. In the meantime the cooperative
acquisitions project had been set up under
which some 125 American libraries, with the
LCM as their operating instrument, were to
obtain. European material according to a
plan which provided that all acquisitions
would be thrown into a common pool.

EXTENT OF OPERATIONS

In January 1946 the influx of field rep-
resentatives, recruited from the Library of
Congress, other leading American libraries,
and fram Army documents specialists, began
in earnest. The organization grew, and the
main office in Frankfurt soon became the
center of a network of branch offices which
at the peak of activity claimed seventeen
field representatives covering all of occu-
pied central Europe: Austria from Vienna,
Bavaria from Munich, ‘Wuerttemberg-Baden
from Stuttgart, the French Zone of occupa-
tion from Baden-Baden, the British Zone of
occupation from Hamburg, and Berlin and
the Russian Zone of occupation from Berlin.

--- Page 16 ---
The pictures on the following two pages
are the first photographs which have been
taken at the Allied Control Authority Build-
ing in the US Sector of Berlin other than
pictures of the Allied Control Council (see
Military Government Weekly Information
Bulletin Issue No. 51, 22 July 1946) and the
various quadripartite directorates.

While the administration of the ACA is.

in the hands of the Americans, there is a
four-power character to the building. The
flags of the four occupying powers fly before!
the entrance and hang in the main hall:
Guards from each of the four nations make
a security check of all persons who enter
the building. The bulletin board and office
designations throughout the building are

~~

printed in Russian, French, and English.
Even the menus in the restaurant and bar
are printed in three languages!

Built in 1914, the building
housed the Kammergericht, highest court in
Prussia. In the building Hitler set up his
people’s court to try the 60 persons accused
of plotting against his life. Since late July
1945, after the damage caused by the war
had been suficiantly repaired to permit its
use, the building has been the seat of the
Allied Control Authority and as such the
center of quadripartite government in Ger-
many.

The picture above is an aerial photograph
of the ACA Building, adjacent buildings,
and near-by Kleist Park.

formerly

Photo by Byer 5

--- Page 17 ---
(Above) The top ot the ornate staircase in the main hall of the building showing the flags ot the quadripartite
occupying powers; (below) American and Soviet Guards who make a routine check of all persons entering
the ACA; British and French Guards are posted opposite them. Photos by Byers

'
i

--- Page 18 ---
(Above) A view of the bar on the second floor of the building; (below) a section of the restaurant adjoining the bar. The
restaurant which can accommodate 125 persons af one sifting is often the scene of discussions by full directorates which
have taken fime out from their scheduled meetings to eat the noon-day meal. Photos by Byers

--- Page 19 ---
MUSIC IN GERMANY (Continued from page 7)

representative musical works by such Amer-
ican composers as Barber, Bernstein, Bloch,
Carter, Copland, Diamond, Gershwin, Han-
son, Harris, Ives, McBridge, Piston, Porter,
Schuman, Sessions, and Randall Thompson.
Many new musical works are scheduled for
performance during this winter season, in-
cluding in addition to the other American
composers: Bereczowsky, Creston, Dello Joio,
Gould, Grofe, Jacobi, Kennan, Kerr, Loeffler,
MacDowell, Menotti, Phillips, Rogers, and
Virgil Thomson.

Representative American operas and oper-
ettas in German translations are planned for
presentation to German audiences, including
The Old Maid and The Thief, Porgy and
Bess, Show Boat, and others. The Soviet-
sponsored Berlin radio station will broadcast
an American Music Festival Week in Feb-
ruary, at which time Harrison Kerr’s First
Symphony will be given its first performance
in Germany. Also scheduled to be broadcast
during the Festival Week is Menotti’s The
Old Maid and The Thief, also listed for per-
formances in Stuttgart, Mannheim, and Karls-
ruhe in the US Zone, Wuppertal in the British
Zone, and at the Staatsoper in Berlin. In
Leipzig, the Gewandhaus Orchestra is sched-
uling a cycle of American musical works
for this winter.

INTEREST IN AMERICAN MUSIC

German performers and audiences have
shown great interest in this American music.
This interest speaks well not only for the
efforts of MG to re-educate the German
people and to reconstruct their cultural life,
but also for the spirit with which the Ger-
man people are genuinely attempting to
learn more about the musical world outside
of Germany, in spite of the constant drilling
received from Goebbels that musical culture
could progress and survive only in Germany.

American musical works are fully pro-
tected by copyright law in Germany, and
performance fees are automatically collected
by the German Performance Rights Society
in all four zones. This Society, known as

16

STAGMA, private and voluntary until 1933,
was at that time officially incorporated with
the Reichskulturkammer and continued to
operate until March 1945. Now re-establish-
ed and affiliated with other international
copyright societies, including ASCAP of the
US, STAGMA serves to protect composers,
authors, and publishers throughout the
world. It encourages the composition of new
German works and protects as well the
works of the Allied nations which are being
produced in Germany. Many conferences
between the four Allied Music Control Of-
ficers have resulted in the recognition that
music copyright laws must be respected in
Germany.

ALLIED LENDING AGENCY

Rental fees for American musical works
performed in Germany will be collected by
the Inter-Allied Music Lending Library,
established in Berlin on a quadripartite basis.
Located at the Staatsbibliothek, this Library
was opened officially in September. The
main objectives of the Library are to in-
troduce into Germany the most representative
works of Allied composers and to encourage
German composers to express their art in the
best traditions of Germany’s musical culture.
Approximately 600 British, 200 Soviet, 100
French, and 100 American musical works
are in the Library. The Library, together
with its piano, is open to all Allied per-
sonnel, but the borrowing of music is re-
stricted to Germans. Photostat copies of 47
microfilm scores and parts form a part of
the American contribution. A mimeographed
catalog of all American works in the Library
is available; in addition, the catalog contains
brief biographical sketches in German. of
American composers. The immediate use-
fulness of the Library is even greater than
was anticipated, and it is hoped that a branch
will be opened in the US Zone as soon as
additional material and facilities are avail-
able. In the near future, recording machines
with phonograph recordings of all available
American music will be distributed through

--- Page 20 ---
ODIC to various towns in Germany.

.One of the first objectives of the Film,
Theater and Music Branch of ODIC in the
process of reeducation was the investigation
of. thousands of musicians. and the screening
of politically suitable ones for participation
in. cultural activities. In the screening of
artists and entertainers, all musicians, actors,
and others. who are found to be politically
clean of the Nazi taint are said to be on the
“white list.” Those persons who have ‘been
barred from their professions because of Nazi
affiliations are “blacklisted.” A third category,
consisting of those who are allowed to per-
form but whose status is still under con-
sideration, is the “gray list.” It has been the
policy that the music of a “blacklisted” com-
poser could be performed if it did not rep-
resent the glorification of Nazism. On the
other hand, present policy makes it im-
possible for an entire program to be con-
ferred upon him. The musical work rather
than the composer will receive recognition, a
policy clearly opposed to that of the Nazi
book-burners.

Up to the present time approximately
35,000 registrations of musicians have been
recorded in US occupied territory by German
agencies under the supervision of ODIC and
the ICDs in the Laender.

MG is gradually increasing the respon-
sibilities of the German agencies, and in the
American Zone the Law for Liberation pro-
vides a means for trying the cases of all
people who have been charged with Nazi af-
filiations. In Berlin a special German Sub-
committee of the Cultural Affairs Committee
of the Kommandatura has been formed to
deal with such cases. This Sub-Committee
is presently hearing the case of Furtwaeng-
ler, former conductor of the Berlin Phil-
harmonic.

The musicians cleared by the Spruchkam-
mer must be approved by MG, and in Berlin,
inasmuch as-the city is governed by the
Allied. Kommandatura, the decision of the
Sub-Committee must be approved by all four
Allies.

In contrast with the eleven orchestras per-

mitted-by Goebbels in Germany between the
years 1943 and 1945, ODIC has to date per-
mitted the granting of about 110 licenses to
orchestras, opera companies, concert agencies,
and producers of musical performances in
US-occupied territory. Bavaria received ap-
proximately 65 of the licenses including
those for 5 opera companies and 8 orchestras;
Hesse received about 21, including 4 for
opera and 15 for orchestra; and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden received approximately 12 licens-
es. In the case of the latter, it is interesting
to note that 4 of the 11 orchestras are loca-
ted in Stuttgart alone.

The most difficult task which continues to
face the Allied Powers in Germany is that
of reeducation. Rehabilitating Germany in-
music, and for the world as a whole, will
require particular emphasis on activities for
German youth. In this respect, US Music
Control Officers. are exerting every effort to
bring musical works to German youth, works
to which they can listen with increased en-
joyment and understanding, or in which they
can participate. A series of concerts for
young people, to be given by the Berlin Phil-
harmonic, has been tentatively scheduled for
Saturday mornings during the winter season.

The Theater and Music Section, ICD, OMG
Berlin Sector, is organizing, in collaboration
with the Education and Religious Affairs
Branch, several gratis performances during
the Christmas season for needy children at
the Hebbel Theater in Berlin. Many other
special concerts and similar musical activities
have been arranged and the response of Ger-
man youth has been great.

MG Aids German Economy

Fifteen thousand class “A”
equal number of serviceable tires, and
1600 ‘tubes have been made available
to the German economy by OMGUS in an
effort to relieve the critical shortage of these
items existing in the US Zone. Action was
taken by OMGUS at the request of the Laen-
derrat who has agreed to replace these mili-
tary stocks over a three-month period ending
1 March 1947.

tires, an

--- Page 21 ---
Denazification Report

The rate of filing of charges under the
German Denazification Law was increased in
all three Laender of the US Zone during the
period from 10 November to 25 November.
The semi-monthly Denazification Report of
OMGUS Public Safety Branch showed that,
during the two-week period ending 25 No-
vember, 29,048 cases were field by Public
Prosecutors in the Zone, representing an
increase of 27 percent over the previous two-
week period. In the same period (10-25
November), 19,492 cases were completed.
The total number of cases filed in the US Zone
as of 25 November was 194,354, and total
cases terminated, 126,251, or 65 percent of
total filed.

From 10 November to 25 November,
fourteen additional Tribunals were establish-
ed in the Zone, all in Wuerttemberg-Baden,
raising the total number of Tribunals in the
three Laender to 425. This represented
establishment of 94 percent of the Tribunals
anticipated for the Zone. Tribunal Chair-
men appointed during the current period
numbered 26, and 22 more Public Prosecutors
were also named. There are now in the
Zone 665 Tribunal Chairmen, and 632 Public
Prosecutors.

MG Radio Broadcasts

A new procedure has been adopted in the
preparation and presentation of the official
MG broadcasts to field detachments over
Station DTYC in Munich. Formerly, the
script was prepared in Berlin by the Broad-
casting Office of OMGUS and was
transmitted by TWX to Munich for record-
ing. This procedure involved a reliance on
a complicated exchange of teletype messages
and long distance phone calls. Under the
new plan, the script is prepared by the
Broadcasting Office and immediately after-
wards is recorded at the AFN station

18

in Berlin. The program is ¢
Munich over the ICD lines, where it is tran-
scribed to tape, from which the actual broad-
cast is transmitted. The first broadcast thus
prepared was given on 16 December.

To ascertain the effectiveness of these MG
broadcasts in keeping field personnel abreast
of official developments with the least pos-
sible delay, copies of a questionnaire have
been distributed to all MG field detachments
in the US Zone to be filled out by all L and
S officers. The questionnaire covers recep-
tion, understandibility, length of the program,
content, and any suggestions from field teams ~
which might improve the program.

Christmas Relief Parcels

A recent agreement concluded between
OMGUS and Swiss private welfare organiza-
tions provides for 190,000 Christmas gift
relief parcels to be distributed to thousands
of German families throughout the US Zone.
Delivery will be completed by about 31 De-
cember. Most of these parcels are addressed
to individuals, but private German welfare
agencies handling distribution are designa-
ting a ceriain percent of them to the neediest
families of the Zone.

Darmstadt Toy Project

Thousands of hand-made toys, the products
of 9,800 Darmstadt school children between
the ages of six and fourteen, were given as
Christmas gifts io American dependent chil-
dren this month. The American children were
invited to an exhibition of the toys, and
selected their gifts from the dolls, games,
and assorted toys on display. All items not

selected are to be sent to orphanages in
the US.

The Darmstadt school children originated
the idea of the project, and furnished all
material needed, as well as making all the

--- Page 22 ---
articles. They had been among the first in
Germany to be fed under the school-lunch
program, the food for which was provided
by CRALOG. Their spontaneous project
was -an attempt to show the gratitutude of
the children of Darmstadt for the food sent
to them by the Americans.

Statisticians Meeting

German statistical experts from all four
occupation zones met recently in Berlin, at
a conference which was one of the first meet-
ings of German technicians on a four-zone
basis.

Purpose of the conference was a discussion
of problems arising in connection with the
recent population census in all four zones.
Problems discussed included inter-zonal ad-
justment of procedures in connection with
the processing and classification of figures
ascertained by tabulating machines, stipu-
lation of uniform classification tables, dis-
cussion of basic tables in connection with the
vocational census and equalization of checking
procedures, and a publication program.

Civilian Internment Camps

In an effort to correct deficiencies in the
administration of civilian internment camps,
the Special Branch of OMG Bavaria has
directed the Bavarian Ministry for Political
Liberation to take “drastic action.” Camps
recently released to the Ministry by the US
Army were found to be operating under Ger-
man control with obvious deficiencies, includ-
ing poorly-disciplined and untrained guards,
increasing escape rates, and a delay in estab-
lishing Spruchkammern in the camps. Spe-
cial Branch has directed the Denazification
Ministry to suspend all outside work details
from camps with increased escape rates,
until German authorities can guarantee ade-
quate security in using labor groups outside
the enclosures.

Seventeen rural policemen, trained in
prison work, were transferred to the Denazi-
fication Ministry to aid in improving security
at the camps; three American prison experts
will make recommendations on improving

19

security; and a Bavarian penologist from the
Ministry of Justice has been appointed spe-
cial adviser to the Denazification Minister.

Coal Briquette Issue

The issue of brown coal briquettes for ci-
vilian space heating’ has been reduced for the
month of December in the US and British
Zones. In a joint statement announcing the
reduction, British and US MG authorities ex-
plained that it was necessary “until working
arrangements have been made with the hard
coal miners’ representatives in the Ruhr,
which can be expected to result in an in-
crease in coal production and permit the
resumption of the domestic fuel ration
scheme at the full rate originally envisaged.
For the month of December, however, brown
coal briquettes will be made available for
issue in both Zones on a limited scale.”

Personnel Changes

Lt. Col. John MacFarland has been ap-
pointed Chief of the Berlin office of Field
Information Agency, Technical (FIAT). He
succeeds Major Williams W. Barnes, FIAT
Chief in Berlin since October 1945.

Col. John S. Niles, executive officer of
Transport Division, OMGUS, since October
1945, has been named acting Deputy Director
of the division.

Col. John G. Hill has been appointed Sec-
retary of the General Staff, USFET.

Haven Parker, former Chief of the Legal
Branch of OMG, Bavaria, was recently ap-
pointed Chief of the Administration of Jus-
tice Branch, Legal Division, OMGUS.

Col. Peter P. Rodes was recently named
Director of the Office of Director of Intel-
ligence, OMGUS, succeeding Col. Theodore
J. Koenig.

Lt. Col. Howard P. Jones, former Deputy
Comptroller of New York State, has yen
appointed to head the Public Finance Branch
of the Finance Division, OMGUS.

William Haggard has been named Acting
Director of Public Relations, OMGUS,
replacing Brig. Gen. Charles K. Gailey, Jr.

--- Page 23 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted cir-
culars, letters, and directives may be obtained
‘ by authorized personnel by writing to the
originating headquarters.

Housing for Dependents

Further clarification on housing for de-
pendents is contained in USFET cable, ref-
erence number SX 6605 dated 1 December
1946, which refers to the categories of US
civilians and Foreign Military Liaison Of-
ficers eligible for assignment of quarters for
dependents in the European Theater.

In addition to officers and enlisted men of
the first three grades, WD civilians of grade
P-2, SP-8, and CAF-7 and above are among
those eligible for dependents housing provid-
ed they are scheduled to remain at least one
year subsequent to arrival of their de-
pendents. Key US civilian employees of
international and US organizations are also
eligible if they meet all other requirements.

The directive states that recommendations
for exception to this policy when forwarded
to USFET must show that the individual is
a key employee for whom no replacement is
readily available and whose services might
otherwise be lost. Recommendations will
also include a statement as to whether or not
excess quarters are available for assignment
without displacing eligible personnel listed
in paragraph two above.

Civilian Disciplinary Action

OMGUS personnel bulletin, dated 5 Dec-
ember 1946, entitled “Procedure for Dis-
cipligary Action Against Civilian Employees,”
defines administrative disciplinary action, de-
lineates the responsibility of the various of-
fices at all levels of MG, indicates employee
rights, and establishes a method of procedure
for the imposition of administrative punish-

20

ments.

Specific duties of OMGUS Personnel Of-
ficer and OMGUS Civilian Personnel Officer
are set forth in standing operating procedures
for Divisions and Offices of OMGUS, Berlin
Command, and Berlin Sector. Directors of
the Laender, Office of Chief of Counsel, and
other field agencies of OMGUS are directed
to implement the procedures outlined in the
bulletin in their respective commands, de-
signating officers in their organizations re-
sponsible for carrying out functions of the
Civilian Personnel Officer and Personnel Of-
ficer. Organization Directors are also respon-
sible for the processing of grievances in ac-
cordance with Sec III, Civilian Personnel
Circular No. 22, Hq USFET, 1946.

Travel in Czechoslovakia

Because of the scarcity of Army facilities
in Czechoslovakia, USFET has directed that
all personnel contemplating travel in that
country make necessary arrangements for
rations, billets, currency, and transportation
prior to entering. The directive AG 210.711
CLM-AGO, dated 27 November 1946, points
out that the few remaining military units do
not have sufficient personnel or equipment
to render assistance in the form of vehicle
repairs or transportation, and that rations
and billets, in most instances, are not fur-
nished by the government but are paid by
the individuals out their per diem allowance.

Repatriated Poles

“Evidence indicates that Poles given sixty-
days ration allowance upon repatriation are
returning to the US Zone. Any such in-
dividuals apprehended will be tried immedia-
tely for illegal entry into the US Zone. Re-
quest necessary action be taken to insure
trials.” These instructions are contained in
USFET cable, reference number SC 22759,
dated 27 November 1946.

--- Page 24 ---
British - US Agreement Seen

Aiding Economic Conditions

The signing of the agreement in Washing-
ton for the administration of the US and Bri-
tish Zones as a single economic unit was her-
alded in the German press as promising bet-
ter conditions, according to the weekly press
analysis by the Office of the Director of
Information Control, OMGUS. The optimism
was tempered mainly by the fact that all
four zones had not joined in the plan for
economic unity.

Pointing to the merger of the two zones as
“a glimpse of light” in a period “that is per-
haps the most troubled since the end of the
war not only for us but for the whole world,”
the Heilbronner Stimme said: “The most im-
portant result that we can hope from it is an
increased ration of coal . . . because if we
should have a cold winter our . . . people
will have no resistance against a grippe epi-
demic. It would certainly have been better
if all of Germany could have been united as
an economic unit, but since realization of the
facts in France and Russia has not yet de-
veloped so far, we must regard it as a decided
step ahead that at least the Anglo-American
powers have come to an agreement: A bird
in the hand is, in any case, worth two in ihe
bush.”

The Darmstadter Echo commented, “The
Washington Pact of the three-year plan has
given some cause for optimism. It is more
than a gesture when the two representatives
of the United States and England attach
their hope to the fact that the three-year plan
will mean something not only for starting the
German economy but also for the whole Eu-
ropean economy.”

A more critical tone was taken by a writer
in the Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg).
He warned that the merger might lead to a
solidification of zonal barriers, and that it
remained to be seen what benefits the two-

Wg

21

saw the greatest benefit#*i
providing for the development and expansion
of German exports.

In an editorial condemning the persistent
but already disproven German rumor that
“German butter goes to America,” the Fraen-
kische Nachrichten (Tauberbischofsheim) de-
clared-

“When a farmer today makes you a gift
of a few potatoes you are happy and thank
him a thousand times, and when a nation
sends you thousands of tons of food stuff,
nobody has a right to insult that nation, by
speading poisonous rumors . .

“(As a matter of fact) our people . . . are
told far too rarely what we presently live on,
whence dried egg, powdered milk, beans,
flour, raisins, chocolate, preserves, peanut
butter, etc., are coming.

“It would be up to the food stores to do
something about it — one of them, in Sins-
heim, recently did. There a merchant exhibit-
ed American goods in their original packa-
ges under a large poster “The US is sending
this to us.” That man is more than a grocer.”

Atlantic Charter

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) raised
the question of when the provisions of the
Atlantic Charter would be applied to in-
clude Germany, saying; ““When a nation has
been paralyzed for one and a half years and
is haunted by the spectre of complete eco-
nomic collapse, then we have reached a criti-
cal point where getting a 100 pounds of po-
tatoes means almost more than going to the
polls, and questions about the new Consti-
tution appear almost trivial compared with
the problem of getting a cord of wood.

“We are fighting for democracy in a vac-
uum... If we think back not only a year
to Potsdam, but five years, we arrive at
14 August 1941, the unforgettable date of the
Atlantic Charter. In article VI, in the

--- Page 25 ---
declaration of principles that all the Allied
and United Nations later made their own,
the hope was expressed that a peace might
be concluded which would guarantee to all
individuals and nations security from fear
and distress. But in Germany today, FEAR
is written in capital letters. and peace is far
distant. One cannot suspend a people years
from a parachute without danger of the
strings tearing. Germany must learn what
is in store for it. May it be ever so difficult,
it will be easier to bear than the present pa-
ralyzing uncertainty.”

Future German Economy

On an inner page the Neue Zeit, Christian
Democratic Union organ in Berlin, ran a
CDU proposal called “A Law For The Prep-
aration of a German Common Economy.” In
its preface the CDU declared that the future
German economic order can be set up only
within a settlement for all of Germany. Re-
specting this principle, one must see to it that
proposals for socialization in Berlin should
take heed of the future German economy and
that the population is.secured from monopo-
listic mis-use of powers. To guarantee this
the party sets up six measures.

Measure No. 1 provides for the setting up
of a board for common economy with the
task of determining those works which
should be socialized, and to prepare this so-
cialization. Further it has the task of nomi-
nating officials who would prevent a mis-use
of economic power.

Measure No. 2 declared this board should
check to what extent works which serve the
public and are in the nature of monopolies
are in private hands, and should prepare the
turning over of these works to public
property.

Measure No. 3 stated that works which
have a decided influence on production and
the market and which have a capital amount-
ing to more than 10 million marks are bound
to common economy. To these works one
should appoint persons who would take care
of common economic interests.

Measure No. 4 explained in detail what

22

the above named persons should do. It de-
clared they should prevent any measure det-
rimental to the community.

Measure No. 5 stated that the decisions as
to what works should be socialized and what
works bound to common economy should be
placed with a committee of the city council.

Measure No. 6 stated that the executive
regulations for the law should be issued by
the Magistrat.

* * *

In a front page editorial on the CDU pro-
posed law, the paper declared the CDU de-
sires to make it clear its law concerns only
those works which formerly composed car-
tels, trusts, monopolies, and similar institu-
tions. Stating that Berlin industries are close-
ly connected with prices of raw material
industries, the paper declared that the CDU
is of the opinion that Berlin industries are
not suitable for socialization unless each in-
dividual case has been checked, as proposed
in their law. The paper pointed out herewith
that such a check may show that the cigarette
and soap and similar industries in Berlin are
almost entirely cartelized, and thus they
would be ripe for socialization.

Observing the dangers inherent in sociali-
zation and noting in this respect that state
monopolies mean new: offices and possible
bureaucracy, the paper concluded that a re-
vival of economy will not be possible without
private enterprises, and for this reason “one
must have the courage to confess it is neces-
sary to arrive at a good mixture of state
planned economy and private capital.”

Praise for Army Aid

“Operation Spud,” in which the US Army-
furnished Army trucks to assist the German
farmers in getting their products to markets~
before freezing weather, was praised by the
Fraenkischer Tag (Bamberg) which said: “In
order to comprehend the generosity. with
which the victors are treating us, one should
ask oneself if the German army in Poland
would have placed trucks at the disposal of-
the Polish population-to save the harvest.”” : .

--- Page 26 ---
Editorials in US Newspaners
Point out Coal Strike Lessons

Lessons which labor, management, and
government must learn from the recent US
coal strike were emphasized by editorials in
leading US newspapers. Most editorials
said the strike pointed sharply to the need
for clarification and modification of their
nation’s labor laws, with many editorials
adding the caution that required legislation
should be constructive and aimed only at
abuses rather than repressive and harmfal
to the legitimate rights of Jabor. +f}

The New York Times said: “Lewis’ failure
does not mean, of course, that we are to
have no more strikes. It is not labor’s right
to strike that has been at stake. It is labor's
right to use the strike weapon to. produce
political results.

“... We may hope that arbitration, media-
tion and direct negotiation will be more and
more resorted to and that strikes will
decline in number and importance, but the
right to strike cannot be drastically inter-
fered with without introducing economic
slavery. We have to grow out of economic
warfare rather than try to legislate ourselves
out of it; for this we will need representa-
tives of management and labor who will not
go about with chips on their shoulders. John
L. Lewis, we may almost feel justified in
saying, belongs to a type of labor leader
that is technologically obsolescent. This is
the real moral of the coal strike episode . . .

“Lewis deserves credit for one thing only
— for knowing that he was beaten. He was
beaten by more than the actual decision or
the expected decision of a court. He was
beaten by public opinion piling up against
him and his union. He was beaten by the
fear of union men that, if he persisted in his
reckless course, the cause of unionism itself
would suffer irremediable loss.”

New York Herald Tribune said the end of

23

gloating” but has set the Supreme
to decide the several legal issues which have
been raised and has given the new Congress
more time io draft modifications of US
labor legislation under conditions of relative
calm.

Washington Post: “there is a danger that
in taking imperative steps to protect the
public interest, to compel responsibility on
the part of unions and to foster amicable
settlement of industrial disputes, Congress
may go too far.”

The Post contended that the stand of
leading labor leaders against any change in
the current status of labor-management
relations does not minimize the danger of
repressive measures. It suggested that the
labor leaders “mobilize their influence to
depose Lewis and others of his ilk who
gamble away labor’s privileges and prestige
in lawless ventures that no democratic people
can tolerate. In the present situation it must be
obvious to anyone that leaders of this type
are a millstone around the neck of organized
labor.” ;

If deposing of these labor leaders cannot
be attained, the Post added, “the least. that
can be asked is labor cooperation in shaping
and_ sponsoring legislation that will ef-
fectively curb lawless tactics of the type
Lewis employs. Labor can be powerfully
influential if it has good judgment to co-
operate in this task. But the reactionary
fight to retain for itself laissez faire prin-
ciples which it so vigorously opposed when
they were claimed by employers is likely
to make unionism the target for restrictive
legislation that should be aimed only at its
abuses.”

Chicago Sun: “Lewis’ challenge to govern-
ment had to be met head on; and it was met.
He backed down completely. Legal issues of
his dispute with government will now be
adjudicated under no stress of emergency by

--- Page 27 ---
the. Supreme Court; but the precipitant of
the: crisis should not “be: “forgotten. That
was: the. union’s dispute’ with the operators
over. terms:on which the mines should be
turned back:‘toprivate ownership.

“Public interest, however, cannot tolerate
a state of free enterprise anarchy in which
miners and operators fight out their periodic
battles over ‘the prostrate form of the
national economy. We must have a com-
prehensive program, whether it involves
public ownership or public control, which
will guarantee stability and a high level of
workers’ welfare in the mines and at the
same time.make the wisest use of all our
natural resources, of which coal is one.”

St. Louis Post-Dispatch: “Beyond narrow
issue of the injunction lies the great general
issue of dealing with strikes in industries
which vitally and directly affect the public
welfare. The nation’s recent experience . . .
shows the right to strike cannot be granted
in such areas in the same unqualified form
in which it exists elsewhere.

“The only wise mood for a citizen and
his representatives in Washington is a mood
of resolution to find the answer. Certainly,
it is not a mood of vindictiveness at Lewis
or organized labor. The goal must be to
find a balance between the right of labor to
protect its, interests and the right of govern-
ment to protect the public.”

MG Investigation Scored

The Washington Post believes that an in-
vestigation of Military Government in Ger-
many, would damage American prestige and
predjudice our negotiations about Germany.
The Post declares: “For the first time: in
our memory we feel called upon to criticize
the special investigating committee that was
first presided over by Mr: Truman when he
sat in the Senate. But the move on the part
of some members of it to probe into our
military ‘occupation in.Germany merits noth-
ing. but the strongest. condemnation. The
idea of a quiz originated in gripes which were
brought to the :committee’s. attention by our
dissatisfied . employees~:in Germany... The

24

result is that the committee is thinking of
setting up shop in Germany and reviewing
the policy on which we operate and the ad-
ministration of it. This could well be
disastrous. In oure view an investigation
would be equivalent to opening our con-
fidential files in Berlin and Frankfurt to the
world. It would damage our prestige in Ger-
many and prejudice our negotiations about
Germany. It is contended that such a danger
would be avoided by the taking of evidence
in executive session. The assurance will
satisfy nobody.

“How, for instance, do we know as much
as we do of the pending business? It is all
in Liberty magazine, in an article contributed
by Senator Brewster. In this article Senator
Brewster deals with a-colonel’s allegations,
given in executive session, about our military
occupation and tells all. The Senator’s leak
is typical of what happens when a con-
gressional committee is engaged in this kind
of ... hunt. How can we expect successful
diplomacy when a special committee of
of Congress is itching to spread our case on

the record.” :
* * Ed

Also commenting on the proposed in-
vestigation of MG The New York Times
asserted: “We do not believe that the Re-
publican members of the Senate War In-
vestigating Committee are justified in the
conclusion they have drawn from the
partisan vote rejecting their proposal for an
on-the-spot investigation of the American
military government in Germany” and
Austria. This conclusion is that the ‘“ad-
ministration is seeking desperately to conceal
something- wrong in the administration of
the occupied’ areas.” ‘There has been no
evidence of an effort at such concealment.
The Army’s administration has not been, and
still is not,-as efficient as it-should be. Bat
this would séem' to be a poor time to turn
loose on the hard-pressed military’ a Con:
gressional ‘inquiry which. would certainly
be a ‘time-consumer and a diversion, and
which might also manufacture propaganda,
however innocently, for hostile. critics.”

--- Page 28 ---
RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS (Continued from page 5)

foreign countries, just as Pastor Martin
Niemoeller is now in the United States at the
invitation of the Federal Council of Churches
of Christ in America. One of the most
significant results of these international
meetings has been the active participation of
the Evangelical Church in Germany in the
work of the World Council of Churches, an
interdenominational organization with head-
quarters in Geneva. —

CONTACTS WITH OUTSIDE WORLD

The reestablishment. of contacts between
German churches and the outside world have
been facilitated by MG’s permission: to im-
port religious and theological gift libraries
containing many recent titles published in
the United States but not previously known
in Germany. MG has also given approval
for. theological students. to study in Switzer-
land and Italy, and it is planned. that an
expanded program of student and pro-
fessorial exchanges. will be established as
soon as conditions permit,

The regeneration of church life and the
implementation of a policy of freedom of
religion in Germany have required not only
the renewal of relations. with other lands,
but also the reestablishment of intimate and
regular contacts among the German leaders
themselves. Since adequate German travel
facilities were not available, MG provided
military transportation facilities for church
dignitaries wherever necessary, enabling
several major church conferences to be held.
Foremost among these were the Catholic
Bishops’ Conference at Fulda in August
1945, the meeting of Evangelical Church
leaders at Treysa in the same month where
the present provisional government of the
Church, the so-called “Council of Twelve,”
was established, and the recent Central Con-
ference of the Methodist Church’ held in
Frankfurt, attended by a full delegation of
22 members from the two Methodist con-
ferences which lie in the Soviet Zone of
Occupation.

The question of religious publications has
confronted MG since the beginning of the

25

occupation. The Nazis had systematically
sabotaged the religious press of Germany,
and the war was used as a conveniént
excuse for almost complete liquidation. The
present needs of the churches for publica-
tions are indicated by the fact that the
Evangelical Church in Germany today has
need for one million Bibles and more than
one million New Testaments. Substantial
progress toward solving’ this problem has
been made through granting licenses and
allotting paper for religious ‘publications.
The shortage of paper, however, continues
to be.a major obstacle, and.a. program to
import pulp and paper as gifts from foreign
churches is under way. .

Also among the major problems have
been the return of sequestered church prop-

erty to religious uses and the reopening of

theological seminaries, twenty-three of which
have now resumed operation in the US Zone.
Like the problem of teacher training, the
professional training of clergymen in
seminaries and in the theological faculties
of publicly supported universities is an im-
portant factor in the task of re-educating
Germany. ;

PROBLEMS FACED BY CHURCHES

These problems of the present are the
results of the Nazi regime and the situation
that faced the churches at the end of the war,
In the spring of 1945, the German churches
were confronted with a tremendous  re-
construction task, both physical and
spiritual, The property losses incurred
through war had. been severe. In the US
Sector of Berlin, for example, the Evan-
gelical Church found only one of its 59
churches intact, with 21 totally. destroyed
and 9 heavily damaged together with the
destruction of Bibles, hymnbooks, catechisms,
libraries, record-books, and other supplies.

In the spiritual realm, the German
churches faced the challenging problems of
combating the spiritual and moral collapse
which threatened. the German -people’ in
defeat, of reclaiming a younger generation
which for twelve years had been ‘systemat-

--- Page 29 ---
ically oriented away from church and home,
and of providing a dynamic spiritual leader-
ship without which a new and better Ger-
many could not be expected to arise. From
the standpoint of organization, the close of
the war found the Catholic Church largely
intact. The Evangelical Church, on the other
hand, was split into various factions and was
clearly in need of reorganization after the
Nazi interlude. The Jewish religious com-
munities were non-existent. The numerous
Free Churches and other religious groups
found themselves in varying degrees of
disorganization.

PROMISES BY NAZI LEADERS

The wreckage of the church in-1945 seem-
ed doubly terrible to those who remembered
the promises of the Nazis in 1933. “We
demand the freedom of all religious confes-
sions in the state, in so far as they do not
imperil its stability or offend against the
ethical and moral senses of the German race.
The Party, as such, adopts the standpoint of
a positive Christianity, without binding itself
confessionally to a particular creed.” This
seemingly innocuous policy statement,
quoted from the party platform of the
NSDAP was supported by various pro-
nouncements from Nazi leaders during the
early months of their rule in Germany. Thus
Hitler publicly stated in March, 1933, that
the “national government regards the two
churches as the most important forces” for
preserving Germanism. He added: “It will
respect the treaties which the churches have
made. with the different German provinces.
The rights of the churches will not be
touched.” Later in the same year he
concluded a Concordat with the Vatican in
which the freedom and rights of the Catholic
Church were protected, and in 1934 he al-
leged: “We have not departed from Chris-
tianity . . . . National Socialism is neither
anti-ecclesiastical nor anti-religious. On the
contrary, it rests upon a basis of genuine
Christianity.”

The Germans who had the interests of
religious freedom at heart soon became
convinced that these were mere words, noth-

ing-more. As the true Nazi attitude toward
religion began to reveal itself in overt
actions by the State, the spiritually-awake
elements of the churches realized that they
were actually face to face with a mortal
enemy which proposed either to destroy them
or to reshape them to conform with. the
pagan Nazi pattern described by Alfred
Rosenberg in his notorious Myth of the
Twentieth Century.

It was apparent to the Nazis that attempts
to reorganize the Roman Catholic Church
along National Socialist lines would be futile
because of its deep-rooted international
character. The Nazis therefore concentrated
their efforts upon hampering and restricting
the Catholic Church in its various fields of
activity to reduce to a minimum its influence
upon public life. The Catholic press, both
secular and religious, was hamstrung;
monasteries and convents were closed down;
church property was confiscated for non-
religious purposes; powerful Catholic
political parties, as well as social,.labor, and
youth organizations were liquidated; Catho-
lic schools were closed; and a dramatic effort
was made to discredit the clergy as being
morally degenerate. The actions of the Nazi
State toward the Catholic Church were, in
fact, such as to cause Pope Pius XI in his
encyclical of 1937 entitled Cum ardenti cura
(with burning sorrow), to denounce them as
“intrigues which from the beginning had no
other aim than a war of extermination.”

“GERMAN CHRISTIANS”

The Evangelical Church, consisting of
Lutheran, Reformed, and United elements,
proved somewhat more vulnerable to the
National Socialist efforts at reorganization.
A partial explanation of this may undoubt-
edly be found in the close relations which
had existed historically between the - Pro-
testant church and the monarchical ruling
classes in Germany, and also in the tradi-
tional Lutheran philosophy of subservience
to the State. At all events, the “German
Christians,” a Nazi-minded element. within
the Evangelical Church, gained considerable
power in the Church and had much to:do

--- Page 30 ---
with its formal reorganization in July, 1933,
which gave rise to the office of Reich Bishop
and provided a centralized structural pattern
through which the Reich government hoped
to exercise rigid controls over the church.
The efforts of the “German Christians” to
synthesize National Socialism with Christian-
ity precipitated within the Evangelical
Church the so-called “Confessional Church”
which issued the courageous Barmen
Declaration in May, 1934, and became the
spearhead of Evangelical opposition to the
Nazi regime. When the real anti-Christian
attitude of the Nazi Reich was revealed after
a period of early camouflage, the influence
of the “German Christians” waned, and the
Evangelical Church was subjected to’ Nazi
persecution in much the same manner as the
Roman Catholic Church.

ATTITUDE TOWARD JEWS

The attitude of the Nazis toward the
Jewish religious community was perfectly
clear from the start. While the Party pro-
gram demanded “liberty for all religious de-
nominations,” as stated above, it also provid-
ed. that the Party “combats the Jewish-
materialist spirit within us and without us”
and that “No Jew ... may be a member of
the nation.”

The campaign against the Jews was one
of extermination, and it was conducted with
devastating effectivenes. On the night of
9 November 1938, the so-called Kristall-
nacht, a coordinated nation-wide assault was
made upon Jewish property by SA hordes
and street mobs. Simultaneously all over
Germany, Jewish synagogues burst into
flames, and Jewish business places were
plundered in an orgy of destruction. In
Berlin the last Jewish service during the
Hitler regime was held in October, 1941.

The Jewish religious community of Berlin
today comprises 7,350 members as compared
to 186,000 in 1938; the number of rabbis in
the city has been reduced from approximately
90 to the zero level; only eight of the former
50: synagogues and Betraeume remain; and
property valued at 21,000,000 marks has
been lost. The record indicates that the fate

27

of the Jews in Berlin was characteristic of
the rest of Germany as well. In short, Jew-
ish religious life was totally extinguished in
Germany under the Hitler regime except
within the hearts of those who managed to
survive the brutal assaults upon life and limb.

INTER-FAITH COOPERATION

In spite of all these religious persecutions,
most of the German churches emerged from
the war with a new inner vitality and
strength. What direction they will take in
the future is not evident at present. There
are strong indications, however, of a growing
tendency toward inter-faith cooperation
among Catholics, Protestants, and Jews. In
the Evangelical Church there is evidence of
a real desire to establish new and closer
relations with other churches throughout the
world and to rebuild its own internal
structure in such a way as to transfer more
authority from high administrative levels,
where it has often rested in the past, to the
local congregations.

MG has established a policy designed to
guarantee complete freedom of worship in
Germany. Since all operational activities in
the field of religious affairs have been turned
over to German authorities, the primary
function of Religious Affairs officers is now
to assure that this basic guarantee of re-
ligious freedom is, in fact, maintained and
thereby enabled to make its full contribution
toward the development of a new, peaceful,
and democratic Germany.

DP Christmas Party

Christmas parties for approximately 2,200
teen-age DP’s from camps in the Frankfurt
area have been arranged by USFET. Each
DP child will receive candy, doughnuts,
chewing gum, and a tooth brush. In addition,
efforts are being made to get oranges, apples,
and books. Three fully costumed Santa
Clauses will be on hand. The American de-
pendents’ high school at Frankfurt is plan-
ning a Christmas party for 500 DP’s of the
Hanau high school, as part of the program.

--- Page 31 ---
RESTORATION OF CHURCHES (Continued: from page 9)

Gothic walls,.and most of the nave escap-
ed destruction. Today, the rafters of a
new roof extend two-thirds of the length
of. the building and the .towers are
surmounted with new capping domes. Thus,
once again the tall, long roof and the famil-
iar brick towers command the view of the
old city. Of Munich’s many. baroque chur-
ches, one of the most important ones, the
slightly damaged St.. John Nepomuk, has
been completely restored. Built by the
Asam brothers, it is a fine example of rococo
architecture. A Renaissance church of
Munich, ‘St. Michael’s, has been cleared of
all rubble. from the -collapsed--vaults, and
the roof is being restored.

Nuremberg. and Wuerzburg have done
more, perhaps, toward the restoration of
their churches than most German cities, In
Nuremberg, St. Lorenz, the finest of the
city, and St. Sebaldus, with its many ex-
terior sculptures, have been cleared of rubble
and are rising again. Masons and crafts-
men work slowly and painfully just as did
the original builders of, the thirteenth cen-
tury. In St. Sebaldus, the whole north aisle
is being rebuilt; the naves of both churches
have been reroofed, and a celebration marks
the completion of any. portion.

The restoration of the Gothic cathedral
of. Wuerzburg progressed too rapidly. In
February, the new roof over the nave fell,
taking with it the greater part of the north
wall and all the grave monuments and
eighteenth-century altars on the north
piers. But work has again been resumed,
debris has been cleared, and the choir and
the transept are now secure and covered
with a protecting roof. The Neumuenster
Church in Wuerzburg was started in 1010
and rebuilt in a transitional Romanesque
style in the thirteenth century. It was gut-
ted by fire, the roof was gone, the tower
damaged, and the whole building badly
eracked. Today, it has been completely
reroofed, the building has been strenghthen-
ed, the masonry has been repaired, the crypt
is being restored and there are plans-to re-

28

glass the church.

_ Two other churches in the same city, the
handsome Haugerstifts Church with its two
towers and lofty dome, built in the seven-
teenth century in the Italian Renaissance
style, and the Gothic, . fourteenth-century
Marien-kapelle, housing the 20 statues by
Riemenschneider,. were both damaged, and
both at the present time are in:an advanced
state of. repair.

Berlin Christmas Parties

More than 11,500 German children in the
US Sector of. Berlin will be entertained by
GI’s on Christmas and will receive gifts of
candy, fruit, cookies and toys in addition to
refreshments consisting of cocoa, sandwiches
and cake. Twelve troop units in Berlin have
prepared for these parties during their spare
time, in keeping with the Theater Com-
mander’s Christmas suggestion that members
of the US Occupational Forces act in a
Christmas spirit toward those whose lives
have been saddened by war.

For weeks large collection boxes placed
in PX’s, mess halls, day rooms, clubs, and
other military buildings have received the
GI donations of candy, soap, cookies, food,
and all manner of novelties to brighten the
lives of these children. Hundreds of pounds
of badly needed items are now ready for
distribution at the parties which will be held
in army installations such as mess halls,
movie, theaters, gymnasiums and club houses,
while GI’s are decorating these places and
packaging the gifts in readiness for the
children. A GI Santa Claus will preside at
each party and will choose a gift for each
child from a brightly decorated Christmas
tree.

The largest party consisting of 3000
children will be given by the 3rd Battalion
of the 16th Infantry Regiment, while the
1151 Engineer C Group plus other troops
in. McNair Barracks will entertain 1000
children. The 16th Constabulary Squadron
will be host to 900 children, and the 759th
Military Police Battalion to 1100.

--- Page 32 ---
SCHAFFENBUR SCHWEINFURT

RARLSTADT

WEIDEN-
NEUSTAOT

UFFENHEIM

ANSBACH

TLSBIBURG
ENCrEN WASSERBURG|
BERSBERS
OCF RATS =
HAUSEN

KEMPTEN

GARMISCH
PARTEN
KIRCHEN

--- Page 33 ---
