--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 71 / 9 DECEMBER 1946

GI TRANSPORT — GERMAN FOOD

co DANGER i
eels 2 Dae

Clint,
eke

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
MARBURG
OPF

LAUTERBACH
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
é FRIEDBERG “ |
QBERTAUNUS|
HANAU

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE

ABER BISCH —
OFSHEIM

EIDELBERG) MOSBACH

BRUCHSAW

HEILBRONN
°9 BACKNANG

PEORZHEIM

BOBLINGEN Frases|

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Control of Fraternization .

Kindergarten Program .

Downgrading of Classified Documents .

Vehicle Accidents

Project Reunion .

Station Property .

Washington National Airport

Community Bulletin.

SOPs as of 21 Nov 1946 .

Availability of US Applicants for Employment (Issue No. 4) .

Reorganization of Military Government for Control of German Civil
Communications and Posts .

Amendment of Revision of MGR Title 22, Reports and Histories

Discipline of Civilian Employees .

AG 014.13 GAP-AGO
5 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 352 GAP-AGO
14 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 312.1 AGO
15 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 537.5 GAP-AGO
16 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 230 RYT-AGO
16 ‘Nov:1946, USFET

. ‘Cireular No. 169
- 49 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 686 GAP-AGO
19 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 461 GDS-AGO
20 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 461 AG ED
21 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 201.62
22 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 311 (IA)
23 Nov 1946, OMGUS

23 Nov 1946, OMGUS

AG 250.1 (PO)
25 Nov 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin :

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signel Corps Photo

GI TRANSPORT — GERMAN FOOD — The
picture on this week's cover shows @ ten-fon
truckload of vegetables being unloaded in
Nuremberg. The food was donated to the
Nuremberg youth kitchen by a German church
organization in a nearby town. The trans-
portation was furnished by the US Army in
accordance with its current assistance program.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Labor Unions was prepared by the Labor

Relations Branch, Manpower Division, OMGUS.
The article is a summary of union activity in
the US Zone since the beginning of the occu-
pation and the aid which MG has given the
labor movement.

The Public Relations Branch, Office of Military
Government for Wuerttemberg-Baden, furnished
the material for Forum of the Air. It describes
the activity of Radio Stuttgart's new program
which is patterned affer the US's “ Town Meeting
of the Air.” ;

Picture Magazine for Germans is the story
of “Heute,” the semi-monthly magazine publish-
ed by US Military Government. It was prepared

by the Office of the Director of Information —

Control, OMGUS.

Rhine River Commission is faken from the _

Monthly Report of the Military Governor No. 14,

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Labor Unions
Forum of the Air
Two Concepts of Democracy
Picture Magazine for Germans
Rhine River Commission
Discipline of Civilian Employees
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

11
13
15

17
21
23

--- Page 7 ---
r assist in the eventual reconstruction of
German political life on a democratic
basis and in eventual peaceful cooperation
by Germany in international life, Military
Government has permitied and encouraged
the formation of free, democratic trade
unions and the extension and dévelopment of
free collective bargaining. The  establish-
ment of these freedoms has found acceptance
among the German workers, who for twelve
years under Hitler had been denied all forms
of democratic expression. Representatives of
management have likewise accepted the new
freedoms possible under free collective
bargaining and offered practically no opposi-
tion to the growth of the trade unions, which
since the occupation have recruited nearly
one million members in the US Zone.
Prior to 1933 German unions had been
divided along political and religious lines, a
situation which was one of the factors con-
tributing to their inability to resist ef-
fectively the establishment of an authori-

*

tarian state. Profiting by this experience,
unions formed since the occupation have
embraced persons of every democratic polit-

. ical creed and every religious faith. Partly

because of this desire for unity and prob-
ably also because of the German history of
highly centralized governmental institutions,
there has existed and still exists a tendency
to unite all workmen of every craft and
every industry in one union having non-
autonomous departmenis formed on indus-
trial lines. This. tendency has not prevailed
in the US Zone but is of constant concern to
MG, as it is felt that in such an organization,
the individual member would find little prac-
tical opportunity to express his views or to
participate in the control of the policies of
his organization. ‘

After a long internal struggle on this
question, the German’ trade unionists have
developed within each Land of the US Zone
approximately 16 autonomous’ industrial
unions, with state and city’ federations very

--- Page 8 ---
similar in general pattern to the structure
which prevailed prior to 1933 and not unlike
American and British labor organizations.
In the early stages of post-war union
development, it was necessary to restrict the
geographical scope of union operations to a
very limited area, such as a kreis, owing to
the disorganization of communications, trans-
portation and industrial activities which
prevailed in Germany at that time. Upon the
establishment of more nearly normal trans-
portation and communication facilities dur-
ing the first part of 1946, the unions develop-
ed beyond the local level by amalgamation
of similar industrial unions into the land-
wide organizations which now prevail.
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden' was the first to
complete the organization of similar Land
industrial unions and at the same time to
establish a Wuerttemberg-Baden Trade
Union: Federation. Comparable to a State
Federation of Labor in the United States, the
unions completed the drawing up of their

constitutions on 1 September. In Greater
Hesse and Bavaria, the union memberships
are now voting on Land union constitutions.
The formation of Land-wide industrial unions
has influenced the transition from a single
centralized .union to several autonomous
unions federated in municipal and state
councils, as in America. This can be seen in
Wuerttemberg-Baden where all industrial
unions now have their own separate constitu-
tions.

SIGNIFICANT DEMOCRATIC FORCE

Despite many initial organizational
problems, the trade unions have demonstrat-
ed that they may be regarded as one of the

_most significant democratic forces in Ger-

many. No other German group has more
strongly supported a vigorous democratic
program. Trade union representatives par-
ticipate on denazification committees in indi-
vidual establishments where they press for
a strict enforcement of the law. The unions

(Continued on page 26)

--- Page 9 ---
A group of Germans read a poster
advertising Radio Stuttgart’s Forum.

Ra Justice, and Tolerance” are the
three planks in the platform of Radio
Stuttgart’s Forum, the German version of
America’s Town Meeting of the Air. Com-
posed of four speakers and a moderator, this
new and unusual German broadcast is now
in its eighth week, and on the basis of audi-
ence participation, press comment, and listen-
er reaction, it appears to be well on the
way to becoming one of the most popular
post-war radio programs in Germany. Heard
every Thursday from 2100 to 2200 hours, the
program is under the supervision of the
Radio Control Branch of ICD, OMG WB.
Fan mail, which is increasing as the pro-
gram becomes more widely known, averages
about 150 letters a week. Enthusiastic com-
ments have been received from Switzerland,
Holland, France, Austria, and the Scandina-
vian countries as well as from the four zones
of Germany. Two radio stations, one in
Switzerland and the other in the French
Zone of Austria, have asked for either re-
cordings of the Forums or permission to
relay the programs. Present broadcasts are
drawing capacity audiences who disclose an

intelligent interest for the serious nature of
the issues involved. Such interest suggests a
healthy trend and indicates genuine appre-
ciation of a program as democratic and Amer-
ican as the corner drugstore.

STAGED BY GERMAN STAFF

Planned as an outlet for adult public opin-
ion, the Forum is staged and recorded by
specific request in the various cities and
towns of Wuerttemberg-Baden on Sunday
mornings and released on the air the follow-
ing Thursdays. Of the first eight programs
broadcast, four were recorded in Stuttgart,
one in Ulm, one in Schwaebisch Gmuend, one
in Esslingen, and one in Karlsruhe. Although
the programs are supervised by OMGWB
officials, the actual staging and preparation
is done by German staff members.

In planning a broadcast, a subject of cur-
rent and controversial interest is chosen.
Four guest speakers are selected—two de-
fending and two opposing the question, and
the moderator is named to direct the dis-
cussion. After the subject is presented to
the Forum by each of the four speakers, who

--- Page 10 ---
of the Al &

are limited to not more than seven minutes
speaking time apiece, the audience enters
into the debate. Its members are allowed
two minutes each and their comments are
picked up by microphones conveniently
placed throughout the hall. The speakers are
limited in time in order to allow as much
participation as possible in the hour and
thirty minutes alloted for the recording. The
broadcast itself lasts one hour: 45 minutes
for the Forum recording and 15 minutes for
the reading of the most interesting letters re-
ceived after the previous week’s broadcast.

The subject selected for the initial broad-
cast in Stuttgart was “What is free speech?”
This was purposely chosen to accustom the
Germans to the Vermont town meeting atmos-
phere of the Forums, to show them that in-
dividuals are entitled to their own opinions,
and that the opposition need not be necessa-

rily annihilated or shouted down. The suc-
cess of this planning has been demonstrated
in later broadcasts, for now when catcalls
and bronx cheers interrupt a speaker who is
attempting to make a point, cries of “Tole-
ranz! Toleranz!” are heard and members of
the audience immediately rise to rebuke the
hecklers.

OTHER PROBLEMS DISCLOSED

This initial program, which drew a crowd
of 300, disclosed a number of other problems.
Speakers failed to restrict themselves to
seven minutes, and floor participants had a
tendency to give speeches rather than take
part in the discussion. However, the dis-
cussions to date have been reasonably order-
ly. The Germans are eagerly accepting their
right to disagree as they begin to understand
that there are two sides to every question.
Occasionally, they even concede the right of
the opposition to express its opinion.

Among the many provocative subjects
which have been discussed, the question,
“How far can German youth be held
responsible for National Socialism?” brought
forth a spirited discussion and letters from

(Continued on page 28)

View of the hall in Ulm where a large crowd assembled
to debate the question, “Are the Nuremberg Trials Just?”

--- Page 11 ---
TWO

_oncepts 0

a

Democracy

by Hans A. Kallmann

} t is widely recognized that there are many
differences of concepts between the Ameri-
can and the German minds. It may be less
obvious, however, that these differences
involve basic conceptions in the psychological
approach to problems by people largely
conditioned by different background, tem-
perament, education, and tradition, generally
falling into that large and most undefinable
category called culture.

From his practical sense, and from his life-
long education which teaches him that he
has to find a way to get along with his
neighbors and with other members of society
in general, the American derives his inclina-
tion for a moderate, middle-of-the-road
attitude. On the other hand, the German,
from his metaphysical way of thinking, gets
his conviction that there is only one solution
to a problem that could be called right, and
that any deviation from this patiern is a
symptom of weakness, a shabby willingness
to yield to the imperfections of life. The
next consequence is a deep distrust of
politicians, who apparently are professional
compromisers, and a preference for extremist
parties which refuse to compromise, regard-
less of the bitter end that so often has come
over Germany.

Behind all this stands the basic difference

that the American has to find out by himself
how to get along with the man next door,
while in Germany it has been the state
authority that regulates and supervises even
such relations, if need be. The American
has to be practical from childhood on, and
the German need not.

MINOR VIOLATIONS OF THE LAW

There is another important example in the
different concepts of the word “law.” Minor
violations of law do not weigh heavily on
ihe conscience of the individual in the United
States. There is scarcely a person who has
not ignored speed limit regulations, or a
smoker who has not smoked in a bus where
smoking is “prohibited” without too much
fear of his being caught. To the German, a
law has to be strictly enforced and strictly
obeyed, and, according to a certain school of
thought, a law not sufficiently enforced is not
even valid.

Although the basic difference in the Ger-
man and American attitudes towards the
state is generally known, its consequences,
and particularly its psychological con-
sequences, are often unknown or misunder-
stood. The American is sure that, by and
large, he is much more individualistic than
the German. Surprisingly enough, the Ger-
mans think of themselves as the real indi-
vidualists and note a tendency on the part

--- Page 12 ---
of Americans to conform. What is the ex-
planation?

In the United States, the very large
freedom granted to the citizen by law and
constitution under normal conditions of peace
is voluntarily restricted by education and
social rules. It could not be otherwise. If a
great number of people would exploit the
legally granted freedoms to the limit, there
would be chaos. The people are permitted to
quarrel incessantly with their neighbors, but
the majority do not do that. They could
denounce each other but they do not do that
either. In the United States there is a
tendency to conform, a certain pride in being
average, and there is little inclination to be
conspicuously different from one’s neighbor.

UNRESTRICTED RIGHT TO DISAGREE

In Germany, what there has to be in the
way of conformity was mainly brought about
by law, regulation, or an appeal of the
authority to the people. Conformity as the
result of social restrictions is, of course, not
entirely lacking, but it is much less strong
and covers a much smaller field. What has
not been authoritatively regulated actually
constitutes the German’s sphere of personal
freedom. It contains even a ‘kind of a
guarantee — that which is not forbidden is
actually permitted. And in this smaller
sphere a great many Germans habitually and
traditionally compensate themselves for the
restrictions of an authoritarian government
by an extreme individualism. In this sphere,
Germans dislike to cooperate and love to
disagree. They denounce each other. They
do their best not to appear average but to
be conspicuously different from their neigh-
bors. Once called upon to act according to
their individual convictions, they do so and
stick to it. In the political field this may
result in 35 or more parties which compete in
the elections, and perhaps 18 parties which
succeed in getting candidates actually
elected. These parties may disagree among
themselves as the individuals do. They may
prefer to delegate their power to a self-
created authority rather than use it them-
selves in compromises. This is exactly what

happened at the end of the Weimar Re-
public. It was logical because freedom in
Germany means the unrestricted right to
disagree. Since that does not work, the way
out is to create somehow a new authority
that leads the way by orders. “Emergency
regulations” they were called under the
‘Weimar Republic.

There are two fundamental consequences
of that, Many, if not the majority, of the
Germans have lived, not in one, but in two
different spheres, in that of the state and
that of their personal freedom. What may
be right and necessary in one sphere, may
be wrong in the other. A man has his con-
victions, but he may have to follow orders
and laws compelling him to act exactly
against such convictions. Both are right and
go together as though it were a matter-of-
course. To hate war, but to fight fanatically
in war is perfectly normal. The Germans
are extremely obedient in what traditionally
is the sphere of the state, but may display
an amazing resistance to what they think
would be an encroachment on their own
sphere of freedom. It is “yes” and “no” at
the same time on the same issue. In terms
of individual psychology it is a case of split
personalities.

DEFINITIONS OF DEMOCRACY

The other consequence is again that the
same words do not mean the same to an
American and a German. The American being
polled on the question of “democracy,” thinks
of the United States. The German, polled on
the same question, is likely to think of a
government elected at certain intervals by
himself, but afterwards acting as an author-
itarian regime, giving orders, showing the
way, telling him what to think. A widespread
popular definition of democracy in the
twenties was that it represented “the best
method to choose the right leaders.” Or
freedom may not only mean to a German the
right of non-conformity, but also the loss of
security and protection necessarily granted
by any authoritarian regime which simply
has to think and act for its subjects. An of-
ficial is not the same kind of person in the

--- Page 13 ---
United States and in Germany. In America
he is permitted to have the same short-
comings as anybody else; if he loses a minor
document, such a thing can happen. If a
German official loses the same document, he
would not be respected, would be reported
to the higher authority, and the consequences
might be very unpleasant for him.

The differences are of course innumerable.
A student, a university, even a house, or a
car, mean different things to the Germans
and the Americans. A man’s suit is, to the
majority of Americans, a ready-made, well-
fitting suit. To the Germans it is either a
badly-fitting, inexpensive, ready-made suit,

or an expensive, well-fitting suit made to
order. Some of the conclusions are obvious.
For example, a law that is not enforced or is
turned against the law-breaker by those who
have to carry it out is, in its long-range
effects on the Germans, worse than no law
at all. In general, those who say that’ Ger-
mans are the same as Americans are as
wrong as those who say the Germans are
completely different. A hungry stomach is
a hungry stomach in both Nebraska and Ba-
varia, but on the'less elementary level, there
are great and important differences resulting
from the different experiences: of every-day-
life over a period of hundreds of years.

MG-Civil Government Relationship

At the fifteenth meeting of the Laenderrat
on 3 December, Maj. Gen. Frank A. Keat-
ing, Acting Deputy Military Governor con-
gratulated the German people of the US Zone
on the completion of their constitutional and
representative elections and outlined the new
relationship existing between the civil and
military governments. “It should be under-
stood,” he said, “that changes shall occur not
only in German government but also in the
character of operation of Military Govern-
ment. This evolution from your point of
view is characterized largely by a tremendous
increase in responsibility. Likewise, Military
Government will change largely through a
gradual decrease in its operating respon-
sibilities. It would be manifestly absurd to
entrust the people’s government with greater
responsibility if we did not intend to remove
a number of Military Government controls.”

The MG directive entitled “Relationships
Between Military and Civil Government Sub-
sequent to the Adoption of Land Constitu-
tions” is-new-available for-distribution to the
Germans....Mest of the restrictions contained
in it which MG will continue to impose upon
civil government are imperative and, for the
present, will be limited to the following:

a. All international agreements which have
been or may be concluded regarding Germany;

b. All present and future quadripartite

10

policies, decisions, laws and regulations;

c. All basic policy decisions of the US-
British Bipartite Board affecting the fields
of central agencies;

d. The rights of an occupying power under
international law to maintain a military force
within the Zone to preserve peace and order;
to resume at any time full occupation powers
in the event the purpose of the occupation is
jeopardized; ;

e. The maintenance of a democratic system
of government in which:

(1) Political power is recognized as
originating with the people and subject to
their control;

(2) Political power is exercised by
popularly elected representives;

(3) The basic rights of free men are
recognized and guaranteed;

(4) The rule of law is accepted as the
individual’s protection against a capricious
government;

(5) A reasonable separation of judici-
ary, legislature and executive control is main-
tained;

(6) The powers of government are pro-
perly distributed between vital units of local
government, effective state governments, and
an effective but well-controlled federal or-
ganization.

--- Page 14 ---
3 ven before the final smashing of the Nazi
war machine was completed in the spring
of 1945, a group of publications experts
gathered at a conference table in London to
plot the next phase of their work. They
were members of the Publications Division
of the Office of War Information and they
had been helping to fight the war with their
weapon — the power of the printed word.

Their new task was to create a tool to
help win the peace — an illustrated maga-
zine to be published and distributed in Ger-
many. The aim was to bring to the German
people the true facts about the world from
which they had been shut off by Hitler for
13 years, and to help occupation authorities
in informing the Germans of American
policies and aims. Thus Heute — which
means “Today” — was conceived and plan-
ned. It became an American illustrated maga-

11

PICTURE

MAGAZINE

FOR
GERMANS

zine published in the German language by
the US Military Government.

After 14 months of publication, accom-
plishments in the magazine’s mission are
evident in its widespread appeal to German
readers, and in its consistent and objective
presentation of the American point of view,
balanced between articles and pictures.
Heute is significantly important, not only in
the democratic re-education of the German
people, but also in establishing high stand-
ards for German magazines.

Projection of America is only part of the
magazine’s mission. It tells of developments
and events relevant to the task of creating
a democratic Germany. It presents world
news by words and pictures as well as
opinions of leading personalities of many
countries. It prints the critical views of its
own readers. Heute also gives the German

--- Page 15 ---
people an opportunity to catch up on world
events of the past 13 years. It provides a
special appeal to women and youth through
carefully chosen stories and illustrations
reflecting their activities in the world at
large, as well as in Germany. Articles by
foreign authorities in the fields of literature,
music, politics, science, and history are a
steady feature. Occasionally there are ar-
ticles written by Germans on relevant Amer-
ican policies.

HUMOR PART OF CONTENTS

Although the whole concept of Heute’s
task is predicated upon dignity and objec-
tivity, humor is a vital part of its contents.

These principles were laid down by the
Director of Information Control, OMGUS,
who also stipulated that “Heute is to be
directed to the broad reading public. Its
appeal should be to the moderately intel-
ligent and informed reader; its approach
should not be narrowly specialist... .”

An illustration of Heute’s practical service
to the German people was presented in its
November Ist issue with a nine-page verbal
and pictorial account of Germany’s grave
housing problem. It was the first time that
the magazine had devoted as much space to
any given problem in Germany, but the ob-
jectivity of the article justified its use.

VIRTUALLY SELF-SUSTAINING

Just as Die Neue Zeitung was born and
developed in the plant of the. infamous
Goebbels journal, Voelkischer Beobachter, so
Heute grew from the ruins. of the once
pretentious Munich structuré. Most: of. the
magazine’s equipment is- salvaged German
machinery. Arid the sale of 400,000 copies
of the magazine virtually pays Heute’s
costs, except such expenses as salaries for
the small American staff and certain critical-
ly needed supplies.

Heute does: not compete with licensed Ger-
man magazine publishers. It primarily pro:
jects America in a vast publishing field far
from saturation. It carries no advertising.
It is circulated in all US occupied areas of

12

Germany and many copies of it are sent to
the United States for official perusal.

It is the product of the Publishing Opera-
tions Branch, Information Control Division,
Office of Military Government for Bavaria.

When Heute first appeared, it was a
monthly magazine of 72 pages. With the
March Ist issue, Heute became a semi-
monthly and the number of pages was cut
in half, Because of the current critical paper
shortage it now has 28 pages.

Tis first editor was Robert Hatch, who had
published for OWI the highly successful
magazines Voir and Kijk as well as other
pamphlets and books used by Psychological
Warfare Division of SHAEF during the war.
‘ The magazine is now edited by Mr. Heinz
Norden, a former US Army major, who has
had wide experience in the magazine field,
especially on the staff of the Saturday
Review of Literature. Mr. Norden has also
had newspaper reporting experience and is
well known as a translator and writer. He
is one of only four Americans.on the Heute

staff, supplemented by able and carefully
chosen German civilians.

Fishing Craft

No German -vessel may exceed a gross
tonnage of 400 registered tons or a maximum
length of 140 feet according to Allied Co-
ordinating Committee Directive No. 44, per-
taining to the Limitations of Characteristics
of Fishing Craft Left to the Peace Economy
of . Germany. _ The directive provides that
the top speed of any vessel -in calm water
while unloaded will be 12 knots or less
while only vessels under 110 feet in length
will be permitted to have Diesel engines.

All limitations apply to replacements for
vessels now possessed by the German peace
economy and to such existing vessels as the
Control Council may decide. The designs
and plans of all craft, bought, chartered or
built, for the German fishing industry will
be examined by the appropriate directorate
of the Allied Control Authority, but not
more than 10 vessels of more than 250 gross
tons shall be built to any one design.

--- Page 16 ---
OMMISSION

he Rhine River is once more ready for

international navigation, ready to reas-
sume her historical importance in the job of
rebuilding the economic prosperity of Cen-
tral Europe. The barges and tugs that had
lain along battered docks in May 1945 have
been raised and restored to serviceable con-
dition; the ruined cranes have been canni-
balized to operate again; and wrecking crews
have cut away wreckage and removed it
from the river bed. Today, large transports
of such products as lumber and coal move
freely up and down the Rhine and Danube
under the newly revived and reorganized
international agencies.

PRINCIPLES ESTABLISHED IN 1814

The basic principles of freedom of naviga-
tion on the Rhine were set up in 1814 by
the Congress of Vienna, which agreed that
“the navigation of the Rhine shall be entirely
free and shall not be forbidden in respect to
commerce to anyone.” During the intervening
years these principles had prevailed except
for brief interruptions during war periods.
The Central Commission for the Rhine was
established by the Mannheim Convention of
1668, and the Treaty of Versailles reconsti-
tuted and strengthened this Commission. On
14 November 1936, Germany notified the
other Governments that they no longer con-
sidered the Versailles Treaty binding on Ger-
man waterways, but the Commission con-
tinued to function without Germany until
1939.

It reconvened in‘ the fall of 1945, and the
United States accepted membership. The re-
organized Commission consisted of delegates
from France, the United Kingdom, the Uni-
ted States, Holland, Belgium, and Switzer-
land, with liaison officers from the US, Bri-
tish, and French Zones of Germany. The

--- Page 17 ---
commission had exercised a powerful influ-
ence on Rhine matters prior to the war, and
soon exhibited considerable energy in regain-
ing its position. In January, at a series of
meetings in Brussels it re-examined the ques-
tion of Rhine organizations and agreed to
coordinate engineering with the Tripartite
Engineering Committee at Eltville. Subcom-
mittees to consider furnishing of fuel and
rations to boatmen were organized and di-
rected to meet in February.

BRITISH WORKING GROUP

In the fall of 1945, the British, realizing
the need for coordination of shipping control
at the principal Rhine coal ports, formed the
Rhine Interim Working Committee at Duis-

burg. This organization was both interzonal_

and international in character. It had no for-
mal interzonal status, but at the invitation of
the British authorities, France, Belgium, Hol-
land, and Switzerland sent missions to Duis-
burg. Representatives of these missions met
with the working committee and entered into
agreements relative to housing and feeding
of boat crews and fueling of craft. The Uni-
ted States sent a permanent resident officer
to Duisburg to participate in the discussions,
which concerned channel capacities, the
amount of freight which could be moved
with available fleets, and other questions in
addition to routine operations.

TRIPARTITE COMMITTEE FORMED

In October 1945, the Tripartite Engineer-
ing Committee of US, French, and British
representatives was established at Elitville
with authority to formulate priorities and
coordinate all work pertaining to waterway
construction, rehabilization, and maintenance,
and to collect and disseminate necessary
data for all of the Rhine River and its trib-
utaries lying within Germany. The chief
engineer of the Interzonal Rhine Commission
and the head of that commission’s technical
committee maintain constant liaison with the
Tripartite Committee. Formal meetings are
held monthly or semi-monthly, as required,
and many informal meetings take place.

14

The Engineering Committee has achieved
considerable'success in the coordination of
engineering work on the Rhine throughout
Germany. In the US Zone, for example, the
channel has been improved from the limiting
clearances of 20 meters horizontal and 7 met-
ers vertical above mean water existing on
1 January 1946 to 50 meters and 10 meters
respectively as of 1 June.

In June operations in the US and British
Zones of Germany were combined by the
establishment of the Rhine Transport Con-
trol Committee at Duisburg, and the pooling
of the British and US fleets under the Ger-
man Rhine Transport Agency. This measure
brought about substantial improvement in
the efficiency with which the craft of the
two fleets are used.

US ZONE RESPONSIBILITY

The maintenance. of the entire Rhine chan-
nel from Maxau bridge (exclusive) to Bacha-
rach is a US Zone responsibility, under the
terms of an agreement signed with the
French Military Authorities in Baden-Baden
in September 1945. So the US Rhine Field
Organization was created on 1 February
1946 and charged with the supervision of
German agencies responsible for engineering
and maintenance on the river, and with the
control of transport, including the salvage
of craft and operation of shipyards. In June
1946, its functions were divided between two
new organizations, one of them in charge of
engineering and the other in charge of trans-
port. . .

The Rhine Engineering Organization is
responsible-for the clearing and restoration
of the waterways and the salvage of craft on
the Rhine. Under its control was placed die
Wasserstrassendirektion, the German Engi-
neering Organization in Eltville. Its juris-
diction at first included the Rhine and Neckar
rivers and the Main iriver to Bamberg,
though the Wuerzburg-Bamberg section of
the latter river was subsequently turned over
to the Danube Organization.

The Rhine Transport Organization, located
in Wieshaden, was established to control

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 18 ---
Discipline of Civilian Employees

Administrative and Judicial Procedures Provided for in OMGUS Directive
Listing Regulations Governing Discipline of Theater Civilian Employees

RR czuistions for the discipline of American,
Allied, and other civilian employees in
the European Theater are listed in OMGUS
letter, AG 250.1 (PO), titled “Discipline of
Civilian Employees” and dated 25 November
1946. Remarking that MG personnel are
not thoroughly familiar with the various
directives on this subject, the letter directs
that this information be given wide dissem-
ination among all MG personnel.

USFET Civilian Personnel Circular No.
14, dated 20 May 1946, with two subsequent
changes, is cited as the basis of the OMGUS
letter. This circular provides that all civil-
ians in ihe occupied zones of Germany and
Austria are subject to the jurisdiction of MG
courts. In addition, civilians who are
employed by US Forces in the European
Theater may be within the jurisdiction of
US Army courts-martial.

TYPES OF. DISCIPLINARY ACTION

Two kinds of disciplinary action —
administrative action and judicial proce-
dures — are provided for all theater civilian
employees. The administrative action may
be informal, which is a verbal reprimand
usually administered by the supervisor for
minor offenses, and it may be formal, which
is a written reprimand. The latter is used
when a record is desired, when verbal
reprimands have been ‘ineffective, when
employment is being suspended, or when
removal is unavoidable. It is administered
by the civilian personnel officer.

Concerning judicial procedures, policies
are specified for governing the discipline of
civilian employees who may commit offenses
too serious to be dealt with by administrative
methods. For civilians of US nationality
who are subject to provisions of the Articles
of War, the following are listed:

1. While generalizations as to the appli-

15

cability of Par (d), Article of War 2, cannot
be made, civilians of US nationality employ-
ed by US Forces in the European Theater
are normally subject to the jurisdiction of
US Army courts-martial. Cases in which
subordinate commanders may be in doubt as
to the amenability of a civilian employee
of US nationality of court-martial jurisdic-
tion will be referred to USFET Head-
quarters.

COURT-MARTIAL FINAL RECOURSE

2. Except as noted below, every effort
will be made to maintain discipline by
administrative measures before recourse is
had to court-martial procedure.

3. Within the discretion of local com-
manders, and to avoid undesirable preferen-
tial treatment of civilians over military
personnel, minor offenses, except traffic
violations, committed by civilians of US
nationality may be tried by inferior courts-
martial or may. be disposed of by admin-
istrative action. Traffic violations within
the US occupied zone of Germany will be
handled by MG courts.

4. If, and only if, an offense is so ‘serious
that a sentence to imprisonment in excess of
six months, in addition to any fine imposed,
appears probable upon conviction, may trial
by general court-martial be directed.

CIVILIANS OF NON-US NATIONALITY

For civilians of non-US nationality, the
following points are listed:

1., Offenses committed by civilian em-
ployees of German or other enemy national-
ity will be referred to appropriate MG
authorities for trial by MG court or for
such other disposition as may be deemed
advisable.

2. Offenses committed by United Nations
displaced persons, or those assimilated to

--- Page 19 ---
them in status, in'the employ of US Forces,
will be referred by the officer exercising
general court-martial jurisdiction to the
appropriate MG authorities for trial by MG
court, or such other disposition will be made
as he may deem advisable, subject to existing
Policies governing the exercise of juris-
diction over displaced persons.

3. Offenses, except traffic violations,
committed by civilian employees of Allied
or neutral nationality, other than displaced
persons, in occupied Germany or Austria or
in the territory of an Allied government
other than their own, will be referred to
USFET Headquarters for instructions as to
disposition. Traffic violations within the
US. occupied zone of Germany will be
handled by MG courts.

4. Indigenous civilians employed by US
Forces in the territory of an ally will be
treated as subject to the exclusive juris-

diction of the tribunals of the country
concerned.

5. No civilian employee of other than US
nationality will be tried by US Army court-
martial without authorization from USFET
Headquarters.

The OMGUS letter includes the USFET
directive, AG 230.741 GAP-AGQ, dated
16 September 1946, concerning the “desig-
nation of military authorities for handling
of military personnel traffic cases and Mil-
itary Government courts for trial of civilian
traffic violations.’ This directive also
specifies that US and Allied nationals will
not be confined in a German prison.

Attached to the OMGUS letter is the
“Table of Standard Penalties” as provided
under War Department Civilian Personnel
Regulation 60.12. For first, second, and
third offenses, the penalties vary from
reprimand or one-day suspension to removal.

Survey Reveals German Eating Habits

Attempting to determine the actual food
intake and food consumption habits of
persons in large cities, investigators of the
Bavarian Ministry for Food, Agriculture,
and Forests have conducted surveys in the
past four months in Munich, Nuremberg,
and Augsburg.

Investigators inventoried stocks of house-
hold food once each week. Housewives
kept a detailed record of all incoming food-
stuffs. Total food disappearance was: cal-
culated, then related to the authorized food
ration to determine quantities being obtained
from illegal sources. While the survey was
not completely reliable, it did reveal several
pertinent -facts- about the present food
situation.

It was found in practically every case
that food consumption was greatest in the
first week of the ration period when
consumers tended to eat more than the
week’s allotted rations. Food consumption
decreased during the second and third week,
and in the fourth week, consumption was
often below the week’s authorized rations.

16

Another interesting slant on the food
problem revealed by the survey was the
fact that parents with several children
oftentimes do not eat enough, as they give
a considerable part of their rations to the
children.

Average consumption in excess of the
official ration was reported to be between
100 and 150 calories per day, mostly obtain-
ed from fruits and vegetables.

Distribution of scarce items was found
to be frequently unstable. It was revealed
that some items were not available in all
stores, and that some cities received food
items which came late, or not at all, to
other cities. Some working-class families
were found to be unable to buy expensive
American items, such as fruit juice, because
their income was not great enough.

Most-frequently-heard complaint was
about the low fat ration. The absence of
an adequate fat supply seemed to be the
single most distressing aspect of food
morale. — From The Bavarian

--- Page 20 ---
MG Adopts New Procedure
For Denazification Supervision

A new procedure designed to provide a
uniform system for supervision of the opera-
tion of German denazification tribunals in
the US Zone was announced by Public
Safety Branch, Internal Affairs and Commun-
cations Division, OMGUS.

The procedure, based on tribunal super-
vision worksheets, is expected to bring
closer relationship between public prosecu-
tors and Special Branch denazification
officers in the field by providing for a
series of regular meetings between Special
Branch officers and public prosecutors.
Through the new worksheets Special Branch
officers will be able to keep themselves
informed of action taken during each
successive stage of the proceedings including
investigation, charge, hearing, and finding.
In this manner errors will be able to be
discovered at the earliest stage and corrected
prior to final decision of the tribunal.

In the new procedure public prosecutors
will submit worksheets compiled from
Meldebogen of suspected persons to the
Special Branch Office which will prepare
from it and other evidence available a
tribunal supervision worksheet on which
will be recorded pertinent data concerning
the person charged as well as the presump-
tive category to which Special Branch
assigns him. The supervisory worksheet
will be held in suspense during tribunal
proceedings, at the end of which public
prosecutor charges and tribunal findings
will be entered on it.

If after trial Special Branch authorities
find the result of the trial erroneous, or that
the accused did not present proper defense,
that the tribunal made improper follower
findings, or that mandatory sanctions were
not imposed, the Special Branch Officer will
discuss the errors with the public prosecutor
and suggest changes.

17

Tn case the Special Branch Officer and the
public prosecutor cannot agree on is=
position of a particular case, the case and
pertinent papers will be forwarded to the
Land Military Government Denazification
Office. The Land Denazification Office will
forward the case to the Land Minister of
Political Liberation for corrective action and
will retain a copy of the tribunal super-
vision worksheet in suspense. The Minister
of Political Liberation can refer the case
to a tribunal for corrective action or a new
trial, but any action taken must be acceptable
to Military Government within the limita-
tions of the Law for the Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism.

This system will provide a check on every
Spruchkammer or other German tribunal
case tried and will assure that decisions and
penalties arrived at during proceedings are
acceptable to Military Government. MG
officials stress that although the new system
will mean a closer check on German denazi-
fication activities, it does not mean that Mil-
itary Government is again assuming denazi-
fication proceedings, which will remain a
German function under MG supervision.

Film Producers Licensed

Ten German films producers have received
the first licenses from MG authorizing the
resumption of movie production in the US
Zone. Two film studios, one at Tempelhof
in Berlin and the other at Geiselgasteig near
Munich, will be available for movie produc-
tion early in 1947 although the property is
under control of MG, being former Reich
property.

Film production will be limited to nine
films per year by both studios because of
the shortage of raw film, but synchronization
of US films into the German language will
continue on a large scale. At present
Suspicion is being synchronized in Berlin

--- Page 21 ---
while Keys of the Kingdom and You Can’t
Take it With You are being worked on in
Munich.

Export-Import Program

President Truman has approved the im-
port-export program agreed upon by OMG-
US and the US Commercial Company at
conferences held in Berlin last month. Under
the terms of the agreement, the US Commer-
cial Company, a subsidiary of the Recon-
struction Finance Corporation, will make
commodity advances in the amount of
$7,750,000 to Military Government for the
purpose of importing needed materials for
specific export programs. The import
commodities will include -ceramics, light
machinery, optics, basic chemicals, cement
and building materials, and handicraft and
miscellaneous items.

Mr. Allen, 2 member of the Board of the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, summed
up results of the conferences with the state-
ment that the new arrangement did not con-
template the making of a loan for the
rehabilitation of German industry but that
the facilities and services of the US Commer-
cial Company would be available to OMGUS
for the procurement of raw materials needed
for the development of consumer goods and
export industries in the US Zone.

Postal Service Extended

International postal service was recently
extended to include international non-trans-
actional commercial correspondence as an
addition to the categories already authorized
by MG.

Although introduction of non-transactional
correspondence will afford a more lenient
policy, certain restrictions must be observed:
subect matter is limited to the exchange of
information and the ascertainment of facts,
the closing of business deals and contracts
is prohibited, and correspondence relative to
German external assets, even if only of a
simple. informational character, is barred.

International mail service, which was in-

18

augurated 1 April 1946 between Germany
and all other countries excluding Japan and
her dependencies, and Spain, reached a
volume of more than 4,500,000 pieces during
October. Correspondence is presently restrict-
ed to non-illustrated postcards and letters
up to 20 grams in weight, and the content
must be of a purely personal or domestic

nature.
* * *

One-way air mail service from Poland to
Germany was given quadripartite approval
on request of the Polish Postal Administra-
tion. The Polish government plans to
dispatch flights from Warsaw to Berlin on
Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, depart-
ing from Warsaw at 0830 hours and arriving
in Berlin at 1600 hours the same date. All
mail will be routed through Postamt 7 in
Berlin for distribution by the Reichspost in
the four occupied zones of Germany.

Xmas Sugar Ration

An extra sugar ration of 250 grams
(approximately half a pound) will be issued
as a Christmas present to all German child-
ren and juveniles between the ages of 1 and
20 in the US Zone. Although the issuance
of an extra Christmas food ration would be
impossible under present conditions, the
proposed extra sugar ration can be allocated
without endangering the general supply
situation. Approximately 875 tons of sugar
will be required to meet this extra Christ-
mas ration.

Reduction in Prisoners

The number of prisoners in the US Zone
has decreased by 787 this month, slightly
alleviating the problem of overcrowded con-
ditions in the prisons. The ratio of prison
population to normal capacity has dropped
by nine percent since last August when the
institutions were filled to 114.5 percent ot
normal capacity. The special Christmas com-
mutation of sentences by the Military Gov-
ernor will further reduce the number of
prisoners next month by 15 percent.

--- Page 22 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

“Out of approximately 900,000 acres of
forest, meadow, and pasture land estimated
as available for reclamation for crop use in
the US Zone, about 500,000 acres have been
selected by the Laenderrat for a five-year
program of land conversion. About two-
thirds of all cultivated land in the US Zone
is in need of strip consolidation in order to
maximize production. It is planned that by
the end of 1951 about 10 percent of this
consolidation will have been effected.

Representatives of the Inter-Governmental
Committee on Refugees are making a sur-
vey of the field in Germany and Austria to
determine administrative requirements in
order to carry out the mission of immigra-
tion and the resettlement of displaced
persons.

FOOD MOVEMENTS RESUMED

The bulk food movements which had been
frozen at Bremen pending a decision as to
the distribution within the US and British
Zones have now been released, and food
moyements to the US Zone, Berlin, and the
British Zone have been resumed.

In some instances, Reichsbahn rolling stock
repair shops are working on Sundays, for
which workers are furnished additional ra-
tions. Sunday work has proved successful
under this plan, with production in several
instances above average week-day work. The
percentage of unserviceable freight cars re-
mains at 26 percent and of locomotives at
60 percent. However, the percentage of
unserviceable passenger cars has dropped to
45 percent of the total.

The consumption of electric power in the
US Zone remains high at 122.6 million
KWH. Generation from hard coal at 36 per-
cent of the total is now double what it was
eight weeks ago, while generation from
brown coal remains around 10 percent.
Hydrogeneration has declined to 44 percent
and net imports to 10 percent.

OMGUS has obtained a 7,750,000 dollar
commodity advance for a period of one year

19

from the US Commercial Company, which in
turn received it from the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation. Industries for which
export programs are intended are basic
chemicals, light machinery and optics,
construction materials, ceramics, and handi-
craft.

IMPORTS FROM CZECHOSLAVAKIA

A shipment of brown coal worth 113,000
dollars was bought from Czechoslovakia for
December and January delivery, half for
steel production and half for public utilities
in plants along the US Zone border. An
option was exercised to buy an additional
220,000 dollars worth of Czech coal and
224,000 dollars of clay and kaolin for the
ceramics program.

Over 34 percent of all claims filed to date
in the US Zone have been partially or en-
tirely located, and of these, 76 percent have
been partially or entirely delivered. Conver-
ters and transformers were returned recently
to the Netherlands, lathes to Belgium, and
other industrial machinery to France.
Paintings, sculpture, and furniture also were
returned to France, and books to Nether-
lands.

PARCELS FOR BERLIN DP CAMPS

Arrangements have been completed where-
by displaced persons residing in DP camps
within the US Sector of Berlin may receive
through Army Postal System channels from
the United States one gift relief parcel per
week until such time as gift relief parcel
post service is opened to all of Germany.

Seven US-licensed newspapers in Wuert-
temberg-Baden were linked with DANA
bureaus in Stuttgart, Heidelberg, and
Nuremberg by iteleprinters to assure news
flow during the emergency caused by the
destruction of the Hellschreiber transmitter
at Bad Vilbel. Total circulation of the 43
licensed newspapers in the US Zone is
4,159,607.

--- Page 23 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained by writing to the originating head-
quarters. :

Change in Communications

Communications personnel of the three
Land Offices of Military Government were
transferred to OMGUS on 1 December under
provisions, AG 311 (IA), titled “Reorgani-
zation of Military Government for Control
of German Civil Communications and Posts,”
dated 23 November 1946.

The letter says: “Effective 1 December
1946 the personnel of Communications
Branch, I. A. & C. Division, OMG Bavaria;
PTT Branch, Transportation Division, OMG
Wuerttemberg-Baden, and PTT Division
OMG Greater Hesse will be transferred to
Communications Branch, I. A. & C. Division,
OMGUS.

“Land Offices of Military Government
will have no responsibility for control,
direction, and/or supervision of any service
rendered and/or activity performed by the
Deutsche Post, except that imposed by
directive to Special Branch, OMG Bavaria,
and. Denazification Division, OMG of the
other Laender, relating to spot check of
personnel of all German agencies on matters
of denazification . . .

“In discharging the responsibilities for
observation, inspection, and certain liaison
activities Communications Branch personnel
(PTT Officers) will normally be stationed
at Postdirektion (Deutsche Post administra-
tive area) headquarters to perform functions
as specified by the Chief, Communications
Branch, OMGUS ... .”

The functions include duties as consultant,
adviser, liaison, observation, inspection, and
reporting violations in connections with
communications operations. The PTT offi-
cers in the field are to be on detached service
from OMGUS headquarters.

20

Transfer of Expellees

Suspension of the transfer of expellees
into the US Zone of Germany has been
effected by cable V-10164 dated 8 November
1946 and will remain in effect until orders
to the contrary.

As stated in the cable, “a complete
survey has been made in the US Zone of
Germany and it has been determined that it
is not possible to accept German minorities
in a humane and orderly manner during the
winter months.”

Housing Checks

In order to maintain a more positive check
on the ratio of German civilians per sleeping
room, USFET has issued recommendations
to community commanders, as contained in
a directive of that headquarters AG 620
GDS-AGO dated 16 October 1946.

The directive states, “It is desired that
community commanders, in coordination
with local Military Government officers,
verify the ratio of German civilians per
sleeping room by means of occasional spot
checks. Reported overcrowding of German
civilians, without verification of the reported
condition, should not be taken as a bar to
requisitioning additional facilities for mil-
itary purposes.”

Fingerprinting

German civilian police are now required
to make two full sets of fingerprints of
all unidentified bodies to determine the poss-
ibility of their being the bodies of American
citizens in Germany. The USFET directive,
AG 200.2 TA, 9 Nov., 1946, “Fingerprinting
of Unidentified Bodies,” further directs
that if the cause of death is not readily
determinable, an autopsy will be performed.

As stated in the directive, “One set of
fingerprints and a report of autopsy, if
performed, will be forwarded through Public
Safety Branch, OMGUS, to the Theater
Provost Marshal, USFET, APO 757, atten-
tion, Identification Branch.”

--- Page 24 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Comment onDenaziticationand

Food Dominate Licensed Press

The questions of food and denazification
continue to be the most important topics for
editorial comment in the German licensed
press in the US Zone, according to an analy-
sis by the Office of the Director of Informa-
tion Control, OMGUS.

Under the title of “Things Cannot Con-
tinue Like This,” the Fraenkische Nach-
richten (Tauberbischofsheim) said: “Do you
think that it can really continue like this —
that shopkeepers exchange their goods
among themselves, that the butcher receives
shirts for meat which he received from the
tobacco dealer who exhanged them for tobac-
co with a wine dealer who in turn received
them for wine from a factory? Or do you
think it can go on that the Nazis don‘t lift a
finger to remove the debris left from their
1000-year Reich, sit around laughing behind
their hands at the ridiculous penalties
which they receive from the Denazification
Boards with the help of character tes-
timonials?”

Pointing to the connection between hunger
and morals, the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Mu-
nich) said, “It is not at all true that those who
are hungry are also thieves. But where there
is hunger the thieves increase.... Thanks to
American supplementary rations, conditions
in the American Zone are still far and away
the best.”

The Mitielbayerische Zeitung (Regens-
burg), after referring to the former German
territory cut off by the Oder-Neisse line,
said, “When this population was transferred
to the remaining German territory all hopes
collapsed that Germany would only have to
survive the winter of 1945-46 and then it
would go uphill. Now optimists have become
scarce, and there are no longer many who
dare to tell the German people that if they
only hold out this winter, the situation will

21

improve.”

Commenting on attae a
and other difficulties concerning Germany
made at a recent session of the Constitutional
Assembly in Stutigart, the Fraenkische
Nachrichten said, “If the world and the Ger-
mans differ as to who was and who wasn’t
Nazi, then the Germans may very well be
right, but the result of such mulish insistence
is only too foreseeable ... We have the
impression that the tone used at the
parliamentary meeting in Stuttgart was a
grave mistake with the probable result that
the desired end has become remote.

“Tf the leaders thought that criticism by
the occupation power ought to be answered
by counter-criticism of a law that they them-
selves have signed, then their way of think-
ing remains incomprehensible. If one ap-
proves of the law, then one carries it out
loyally. But if one regards it unsatisfac-
torily, then it is not honest to change the law
by twisting it in execution.”

Lessons from the Past

The British licensed Telegraf described an
incident in the S-Bahn in Berlin to show
that the Germans haven’t learned yet from
the past. According to the paper, a French
woman who had formerly been in a con-
centration camp met in the S-Bahn a former
concentration camp guard woman who was
still wearing her uniform. Upon upbraid-
ing her for this, the French woman was
verbally set upon by the other people on
the train.

“By siding with this former KZ guard
these people showed how certain people
disregard the lessons of the past,” declared
the paper, stating that these people con-
sciously put themselves against the views of
the majority of the Berlin population. Not-
ing that today much is said about reaction,
the paper declared: “This shameful S-Bahn
incident showed an outspoken reactionary

--- Page 25 ---
character.”
The paper pointed out that this incident
_ is sympathetic and that one could draw con-
clusions about it which would be applicable
to feelings all over Germany. In conclusion
the paper warned the Berliners to show
more discipline and more understanding for
the reasons to which they owe the present
calamity, for this is the most rapid way to
gain the world’s confidence which is need-
ed for Germany’s future.

Constitution Draft

The Stuttgarter Zeitung in praising the
draft of the constitution for Wuerttemberg-
Baden said, “It is true that we all have
troubles today which concern us more deeply
than does a fine constitution. But in spite
of that, it would be false, if we were to
be indifferent or hostile. The constitution,
it is true, cannot provide more potatoes or
a warm room, but our future work and life
depend on the existence of such a funda-
mental for our community life.”

German Peace Treaty

Speaking over the Radio Berlin’s “Trib-
une of Democracy” program, intendant Max
Seydewitz advised that the Germans have
a chance to influence the peace treaty by
proving they are eligible for one.

He pointed out that a Germany which
is freed from Nazism and militarism and
which has proved her reliable democracy
and peaceful spirit will achieve a better
peace treaty than one which is not denazified
nor democratized. He further contended
that when the great majority of Germans
declare themselves for an undivided Ger-
man republic, this too will have much in-
fluence on the victors.

At the same time he warned against try-
ing to divide the Allies, for “in their inter-
ests the German people must fight any spec-
ulation on disagreement amongst the victor
powers.” Seydewitz pointed out that behind
such speculation stands the desire to cor-

rect the horrible results of the miserable
Hitler war by a third world war.

European Socialism

In an editorial stressing the inevitability
of socialization for Europe, the French-
licensed Kurier contended that those economic
branches should be socialized which have
been fully developed and thereby have be-
come the property of everyone. At the same
time the paper found socialization danger-
ous when it is applied to those branches
which are still in the process of development
and must be pushed on by private initiative.
The paper advocated that the railroads, pos-
tal service, and canal system be run by
the state.

Citing the need for socialization of public
utilities, the paper declared that mines
should be treated in the same manner. The
paper rejected socialization for the chem-
ical and pharmaceutical industries and those
industries which “demand good quality.” As
an example of the latter the paper named
textiles, paper and leather.

After outlining the means of state control
of those industries it deems fit for social-
ization, the paper concluded the measures
taken in this respect should not obstruct a’
uniform settlement for all of Germany.

Constitutional Elections

Following the constitution] elections in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, the Fraenkische Nach-
richten (Tauberbischofsheim). was critical of
some political activities before the elections.
It said: “Now that the electoral contest is
passed, the press has the duty to criticize
in all objectivity the destructive methods
that were used, methods that not only are
apt to choke off democracy and to demons-
trate that the German people are not mature
enough for democracy .... The parties
have not only besmirched what is sacred to
others but have disregarded the most primi-
tive rules of mutual respect, civility, com-
mon decency . . . . The electoral battle has
returned to political life the atmosphere of
the immediate pre-Nazi period.”

--- Page 26 ---
Necessity of Economic Unity
Emphasized by US Newspapers

Recent editorial comment in the US press
on the German problem reiterated the need
for stabilization of the German economy, and
criticized the lack of progress in carrying out
the Potsdam Agreement to administer all of
Germany as a single economic unit. Some
papers also underlined German apathy to-
wards denazification as a danger to establish-
ment of a peaceful democratic Germany.

The New York Times said in part: “While
negotiations for a peace treaty with Germany
still mark time, it is increasingly clear that
the present Allied regime has reduced that
country to a political and economic vacuum.
For Germans this has meant hunger, which
in turn is undermining the whole process of
their democratization. For the rest of Eu-
rope it has meant continued dislocation,
dangerous delay in recovery and political
and economic reorientation the ultimate con-
sequences of which cannot be forseen. For
American taxpayers it has meant an extra ex-
penditure of about one billion dollars a year.

“How the situation might have saved itself
by this time if the Potsdam Agreement to
administer Germany asa single economic unit
had been carried out it is difficult to say.
The point is that the Potsdam Agreement has
not been carried out...

“A military regime such as is now ruling
Germany is not the best means for utilizing
the energies of a people. American Military
Government has frankly acknowledged this
by turning as much government and authority
over to the Germans as possible . . . Whether
the present system of control in Germany
was the best available in the circumstance is
for history to judge. But the brief history
of that system has already demonstrated that
the only way of converting Germany from a
cancer into an asset is to turn the country
back to the Germans themselves — under

to follow the program mapped out by
— to establish a German government and
make peace with it.”

The Washington Post: “The Potsdam plan
has in large measure been honored only in
the breach, and reexamination of problems is
thus in order. First essential step must be
unification of the four zones.”

The Detroit News: “The truly fatal aspect
of Allied policy up to the present hour is
that it can only end by destroying itself. The
more that Germany is dismantled for the
sake of reparations, the less: becomes the
chance for German maintenance.

“No Allied spokesman has yet explained
how peace can come from despair whereby
we can lead a people to democracy without
first giving them a decent chance for life.
If recent history teaches us anything, it is
that political extremism feeds on chaos and
democracy progresses only where there is
relative economic stabilization.”

In a subsequent editorial, the Detroit News
said: “The problem of a settlement for Ger-
many and of establishing a rational basis for
world peace are indivisible and statesmen
who reject this view to serve any national
end are simply piling up misery for all of
humanity.”

The San Francisco Chronicle warning that
the German Military dream is not yet dead,
said: “One towering folly, as the rest of the
world inches along the rocky path of peace,
would be to tolerate revival of any amount
of relative power which would feed the Ger-
man dream.”

Critical of denazification progress the
Louisville Courier Journal said: “The key
to the difficulty lies in the German character.
These people have been trained to follow a
leader, blindly without question. They there-
fore admit no individual responsibility for
the evil which fell upon Germany under the

--- Page 27 ---
Nazi regime.”

Charlotte Observer: The tendency of Ger- _

mans to absolve the Nazis has cast grave
doubt of the ability of the German people to
govern themselves within a democratic sys-
tem... If German tribunals will stop rein-
stating Nazis who have been screened out by
American authorities and will go about the
denazification program in earnest, they may
yet win the right to self government. Actual
denazification must be insisted upon by
American authorities to prevent the rise of
another military state in Germany.”

Purpose of UNESCO

The Baltimore Sun in an editorial on the
opening of the first general conference of
UNESCO (United Nations Educational
Scientic and Cultural Organization) in Paris
today, pointed to the importance of that
meeting in furthering the organization’s. ap-
proach to peace through the promotion of
greater respect and knowledge among men
and nations.

The Sun said in part: “The purpose of
UNESCO has been clearly summarized in a
report of its Preparatory Commission which
points out that in addition to ‘the creation of
machinery to stop war when international
crises arise’ — that is, the United Nations —
there is another approach to peace.

“Continuous cultivation of a society in
which crises are not so likely to occur, in
which farsighted concern for human welfare
has first priority, and mutual respect and
understanding among nations are strength-
ened.

“The UNESCO constitution’s preamble
succintly declares the view of its founders:
‘Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is
in the minds of men that the defenses of
peace must be constructed.’ In short, it
aims at attacking the problem of peace by
improving men’s knowledge of each other
and their various cultures, ideas and tradi-
tions. The old League of Nations also had
its international committee on intellectual
cooperation, set up in 1922 .. . just as the

24

United Nations is better, or least more
strongly planned than the League so UN-
ESCO appears to have a broader program
than any the committee worked on. The
Paris meeting may largely determine its
future usefulness.”

World Food Relief

American newspapers, analyzing the world
food relief problem after UNRRA ends its
work, express differing viewpoints as to the
US proposal that future food aid be handled
by “simple and direct” methods rather than
by a new international agency supplanting
UNRRA.

They recognized the necessity for further
US contributions in supplies and money, and
express agreement with the statement of US.
delegate Adlai Stevenson before the United
Nations last week that this country has al-
ways done its part in alleviating world suf-
fering. :

The Washington Star, in discussing the
US proposal, said the plan really represents
“a desire to make sure that from now on —
whether our aid is extended on a national or
international basis — the recipient govern-
ments will not accept it with one hand and
beat us over the head with the other.”

The Star continued: “In short, all we seek
is common decency in international relations.
No matter what Mr. Gromyko or others may
say, there is no question here of playing pol-
itics with the hungry. Insinuations to that
effect do violence to a record eloquent of the
fact that America, in keeping with its ab-
undance, has never failed to respond prompt-
ly and generously to the cries of distress
everywhere in the world.”

The New York Times stated that “three
sound principles have emerged as a guide to
future action. First, there will have to be a
continuation of relief, it will have to be on
a large scale and the United States, as the
nation in the best position to do so, will have
to carry the chief burden . . . we cannot be
either safe or prosperous in a world threat-
ened by starvation . . . the second principle

--- Page 28 ---
is ... that we should not, and cannot afford
to apply a political test to the distribution of
American aid . . . The third principle goes
hand in hand with the second .. . We cannot
permit others to use aid for their own pol-
itical advantage .. . American food, when it
is sent abroad, is intended to feed the hungry
and not.to consolidate unstable governments
in power.

Thus, concluded the Times, it is right and
the duty of US to “insist that those govern-
ments which wish to receive our supplies in
the future grant us in turn the opportunity to
supervise the control and distribution of
these supplies at every stage . . .If this can
be done more efficiently — as seems likely —
through direct action by an entirely Amer-
ican agency distributing American aid than
by an international group with less clearly
defined authority and responsibility, then
this is an argument for the direct method.”

The New York Herald Tribune, disapprov-
ing the “direct aid” method outlined by
Stevenson, said “this step marks a reversion
to national settlements in place of inter-
national cooperation . . . This method opens
the US to the suspicion that its program may
become, as Mr. LaGuardia puts it, one of
buying loyalty with baskets of food. No
denial of intention to use it for that purpose
will serve wholly to allay that suspicion. We
believe it is an unwise step.”

Freedom of Information Media

Several newspapers and commentators,
noting the action of the UN Assembly Com-
mittee in recommending by a 41-0 vote the
calling of an international conference on free-
dom of information in the press, radio, and
motion picture fields, endorsed the proposal.

“Agreement in that proposal,” said the
Philadelphia Inquirer, “is an encouraging
sign that this great issue is at last getting the
world attention it needs. This newspaper
approves heartily of the statement in the
Commitiee’s resolution that freedom of in-
formation is ‘the touchstone of all the free-
doms to which the United Nations. is con-

25

secrated.’ . . . If this subject is as important
as the social-cultural committee thinks it is
— and there’s no doubt on that point — it
should be made a major project in the Gen-
eral Assembly’s agenda.”

Commentator Cecil Brown: “The conference
is a good idea for the simple. reason that
there is a great need for more freedom of
people to know what is going on. in other
countries.”

Noting that the purpose of the conference
would be to formulate views concerning
rights, obligations, and practices which
should be included in the concept of freedom
of information, the Boston Post said in part:
“So far so good. It has long been agreed
among experts that full freedom of infor-
mation and news between the various coun-
tries would go far toward keeping the
people of each country properly informed of
developments in other countries and thus
would brush aside the kind of vicious prop-
aganda which breeds distrust and subse-
quent wars...”

Unification of Armed Forces

The Washington Post feels that the victory
of the Republican party in last month’s elec-
tion brings with it the hope that a Republican
Congress will be able to bring about the uni-
fication of the armed forces. ‘Some of the
bitterest foes of unification have now been
displaced,” the Post states. ‘Others are no
longer in vital chairmanships, Thus the way
is open for the Republican majority to push
through the vital measure. To our way, of
‘thinking the most compelling argument for
unification is not economy. Rather it is
national security — how to obtain a defense
now or can we obtain it under existing con-
ditions? In a pointed Armistice Day speech,
Gen. George C. Kenney, answered this with
a resounding ‘no!’ ‘From the viewpoint of
national security, the present situation is not
only dangerous but it invites disaster.’ Gen-
eral Kenney asserts. ‘No sound planning, no
sensible policy, no consistent action is pos-
sible under the prevailing structure.’ We
agree.”

--- Page 29 ---
LABOR UNIONS (Continued from page 5)

recommend politically reliable persons to
fill the places of Nazis dismissed from Ger-
man public administration. Ever since the
German Law. of: Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism has been in effect,
the trade unions have continued to campaign
for a thorough denazification which they
believe has only partially been carried out
by the German tribunals. The part which
the unions have played to root out these ele-
ments. which brought so. much misery to
Germany and the world, and which, if per-
mitted to continue, would seriously threaten
the effort to rebuild a democratic Germany,
has been commended by MG.

EDUCATION PROGRAMS

Recognizing the importance of the re-
education of German youth, the trade unions
have initiated education programs for young
workers. One of the most ambitious projects
to date has been the trade union leadership
school near Garmisch which is supported by
the Bavarian trade unions. Since its estab-
lishment seven courses of two weeks duration
each have been offered. Approximately 35
young men and women, drawn from all parts
of Bavaria, have attended each course and
have been given an opportunity to learn
about and to discuss freely the positions of
trade unions in a democratic economy.
Specialized courses are given by trade union
leaders and officials of the German Land
government. During the period of instruc-
tion, the students are remunerated for their
loss of pay.

SPONSOR YOUTH GROUPS

Perhaps even more important has been the
formation of youth groups sponsored by the
trade union movement. At Land trade union
youth conferences during October in Wuert-
temberg-Baden and Greater Hesse, the
delegates showed a readiness to participate in
trade union work and a deep understanding
of the special problems of young workers.
In addition, since August trade unions have
had an important medium of expression

through the three semi-monthly Land union.
publications which have contained articles of
high quality dealing not only with trade
union problems but with the democratic tasks
of German society in general. |

In.a country where the barest minimum.
of food, clothing, and shelter exist, the, trade.
unions have ‘offered guidance to the working
population. Throughout the Zone trade unions
have waged vigorous campaigns to ensure the
enforcement of price control. In Nuremberg,
for example, committees consisting of trade
union and distributor representatives have
been set up in every police precinct to
cooperate with the price control authorities.

Trade unions have also become the voice
of labor to government and have made
several proposals on social legislation. They’
have also initiated Works Council elections
which provide all employees in individual
establishments with representatives to par-
ticipate in the settlement of grievances and
in negotiations with employers ‘regarding
plant work rules.

WAGE STABILIZATION POLICY

In view of the threat of inflation, the
Allied Control Authority has maintained
wage stabilization which in effect has meant
a wage freeze. Recently, however, amend-
ments to this policy were made to permit
wage adjustments necessary to correct in-
equalities. Under this modification trade
unions may negotiate the amount of the wage
increase within the range set by the ACA.

The appeal of the unions to the German
workers and employees in the US Zone can
be indicated by the increase in membership
during the past nine months.

In determining objectives and dangers in
present-day German trade unions, it is neces-
sary to examine the part played by the
unions in past history. Bismarck, for
example, realized that the existing trade
unions menaced the stranglehold which the
Prussian Junkers and the militarists were
clamping on the political throat of the

--- Page 30 ---
nation. Therefore, he introduced certain
social reforms, that were aimed at decreasing
the appeal ‘of labor unions to the working
population. This has happened repeatedly
in the history of the German unions, and this
factor is of vital concern to those persons
who are interested in the trade unions as
one of the vehicles for establishing dem-
ocratic processes in Germany.

After the fall of Germany in 1918, the new
Weimar republic placed into its constitution
guarantees designed to foster union develop-
ment. From ‘that time on, the German trade
union membership became numerically one
of the most powerful in the world. Due to
its great numbers, it was able to ward off
many of the encroachments of the Nazi Party
between 1928 and 1933 when that party was
rapidly gaining so many adherents among
government officials, farmers, and business
men.

GRAVE INHERENT DEFECT

However, the ability of the trade unions
to combat Nazism was seriously hampered
by a grave inherent defect. It was a case of
the members and leaders of the unions plac-
ing too much faith upon presumed legal
rights and their written constitutions. The
average German, who relied so implicitly on
law and order and authority, could not con-
ceive that some ruthless dictator might (and
did) take these very institutions and use them
for their destruction. Furthermore, the labor
movement at the time consisted of three
major national federations which were
closely identified with political parties. The
emphasis which they placed on party polit-
ical programs and their failure to reach
agreement through democratic expression
left them powerless to counteract the
dangers of Nazism. ;

When Hitler was appointed Chancellor by
von Hindenburg, the unions then were rely-
ing on a solution through legal and constitu-
tional means. This illusion was promptly
shattered by one of Hitler’s tricks. It hap-
pened on May. Day in 1933, for many years
the traditional holiday for German workers.

va

The Nazis planned for big events, just as
usual, and hundreds of thousands of workers
came out to celebrate. This gave Hitler the
opportunity. to spot and arrest all labor
leaders whom he considered injurious to his
cause. This done, it was relatively simple
for him to smash the largest of the German
labor federations immediately and finish up
with the rest of the movement soon after-
wards.

GERMAN LABOR FRONT

In their place, he set up a new orguni-
zation called the “German Labor Front”
which was not a free labor union but rather
an arm of the Nazi party whose function was
to control German workers and to accelerate
the Nazi war machine. Here was an example
of a society being dispossessed of its dem-
Ocratic expression through a deliberately
imposed program of “social welfare.” The
German workers were not permitted to par-
ticipate in the determination of the policies
or program of the Labor Front, even though
Hitler saw to it that there were paid vaca-
tions and pleasure boats for those who did
as they were told. Most of the outstanding
labor leaders who had ‘recognized these
dangers were placed in concentration camps
where they died from torture or by exe-
cution..

PROBLEMS FACING UNIONS

The problems which surround the reestab-
lishment and growth of German trade unions
are twofold. The first, the narrower problem,
is concerned with developing organizations
which are responsible to the wishes of their
individual members. The workers must be
given an opportunity to participate in deter-
mining such policies as wage scales, hours,
and working conditions. The _ second, .or
broader consideration, is that of giving the
unions a chance to take part in the solution
of the major economic problems of Germany
— those problems which are concerned with
the establishment of a peaceful economy pro-
viding the minimum necessity of life and the
opportunity for Germany to take a respected
place among the free nations of the world.

--- Page 31 ---
FORUM OF THE AIR (Continued from ‘page 7)

young people in all parts of Germany, when
it was debated in Esslingen. The opinions
expressed were both strong and varied. A
part of the general opinion gathered from
listener reaction held that the youth were not
responsible because they had never had a
chance to know any political philosophy
other than National Socialism. Some said
that the parents and teachers were respon-
sible. Still others contended that the youth
were responsible and that the pageantry of
Nazism had blinded them +o all reason.

EQUALITY FOR WOMEN ?

Another question that’ resulted in one of
the best Forums held yet was “Are women
capable of holding equal positions in polit-
ical life or not?” The majority of listeners
seemed to feel that women are ‘capable of
holding political positions and expressed the
thought that Germany must use women in
government and industry to an increasingly
greater degree than before. The reaction to

the Forum held in Ulm on the question “Is
the Nuremberg verdict just’ and will it in-
fluence denazification?” was strong against
the acquittals of von Papen, Fritzsche and
Schacht.

ENTHUSIASM FOR FREE -SPEECH

To the question of “Should all : party
members, without exception, be excluded
from leading positions in reconstruction?”
the Forum seemed generally to agree that if
the persons in question had knowingly
entered the party for personal gain, they
should now be denied office in deference to
those who knowingly stayed out. Another
successful Forum question was “Do we. have
a moral responsibility to assimilate expellees
into our communities or not?” Even though
it remains to be seen exactly. what the con-
census of opinion is and how sincerely it has
been expressed, it is a plain fact that today,
in spite of themselves, the Germans are enthu-
siastic about free speech. It is a hopeful sign.

RHINE RIVER COMMISSION. (Centioued trom poce 14)

Rhine river traffic and shipyard operations,
which are actually performed by German
organizations. A freight rate board: for the
Zone has been organized and coordinated
with the price control agencies of the adjoin-
ing zones. Supplies to foreign craft are being
furnished from German supply points and
arrangements are made‘for payment in accor-
dance with provisions of the import-export
program of Germany.

‘During the winter of 1945—1946, there
were many obstacles to satisfactory opera-
tion of water transport facilities. River clear-
atice was not complete, and consequent
interruptions to traffic were frequent. The
current through demolished bridges was dan-
gerously swift, and loading therefore had to
be reduced. The use of all foreign craft
ceased on 1 February 1946 for lack of means
of effecting payment for services rendered.
Sufficient. tug. power was not available to
handle traffic adequately.

In spite of these problems, the Rhine was
used for coal movements from the ports: of
‘Wesséling and Duisburg-Ruhrort to Karls-
ruhe, Mannheim, Frankfurt, Aschaffenburg,
‘Wuerzburg and Heilbronn. German agencies
were assisted in putting as many barges as
possible in operation. Released prisoners of
war were screened for crews. Priority was
given to tug repairs.

INCREASE IN ACTIVITY

Consequently, the total number of barges
in operation was increased from 313, with
294,684 tons capacity on 1 January 1946,
to: 591, with 597,255. tons capacity, on
August 1946. During the same period, the
total tug power was increased from 67 tugs
with 31,433 horse power. to 112 tugs with
45,050 horse power.. As a. result of. these
efforts, the movement of coal on the Rhine
and its tributaries increased from 98,800 tons
in January 1946 to 317,000 tons in July
1946.