--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
opr MARBURG

LAUTERBACH,
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
: FRIEDBERG
we QBERTAUNUS|

ROTEN BURG

NESBADEN

OFFENBACH

ERBACH

AUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH
HEILBRONN
eh eee

WAIBLINGE

BERGSTRASSE

BRUCHSAG

GMUND

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

—
il

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Revision of Public Health Reporting System .

AG 091.4 (IA)

11 Jan 1947, OMGUS

Savings and Insurance Program

Employment Agreements and Interim Leaves

Amnesty Period for the Surrender of Arms and Am-
munition by the Civilian Population of the US Occu-
pied Zone of Germany a

Army Postal Service for Berlin

Ordinance No. 10 — Illegal Possession of United
States Military Payment Certificates .

Marriage between American and German Personnel

Laenderrat Draft Law Concerning the Reception and
Integration of German Expellees .

Circular No. 1
14 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 230 (AG)
16 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 470 GEC-AGO
20 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 311.1 (BC)
22 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 010.5 (LD)
22 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 291.1 (PO)
22 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 010 (CA)
24 Jan 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Rosenberg

OMGUS STAFF MEETING — The picture on
this week's cover was taken at a recent stat?
conference of the Deputy Military Governor.
Held each week in the Director's Building,
OMGUS, the staff conference brings together
the heads of the executive offices and func-
tional divisions of OMGUS for discussion of
current MG problems.

MG SERIES

This issue marks the inauguration of a series
of articles dealing with the current functions and
operations of Military Government in Germany.
The articles are prepared by authorative writers
of each organization, division, and office, and
from regulations and official documents, in an
effort to present a concise, informative picture
of Military Government.

Many persons working with Military Govern-
ment are not familiar with activities outside
their own offices. Also military troops have
often asked what is Military Government. The
idea for this series was presented to the
OMGUS “Suggest and Win” Campaign by
Donald H. Ryan, of the Transport Division,
OMGUS. He pointed out the difficulty of read-
ing the many regulations and papers on the
subject and of finding any concise, complete
resume of these documents.

The work of preparing this series of articles
was referred fo the Weekly Information Bulle-
tin, whose staff received the hearty cooperation
of all MG agencies in their preparation. The
series will fill five consecutive issues of the
WIB, and will then be incorporated into a book
for general distribution.

In next week's issue of the WIB will appear
articles dealing with the Legal, Finance, and
Manpower Divisions, and the Office of the
Director of Information Control, all of OMGUS,

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

_ MILITARY GOVERNMENT SERIES

Four-Power Government

The Land Governments

MG Policies, Regulations, and Directives
MG in the Field

The Executive Offices

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
STATION LIST

PAGE

14
16
20

23
27
29
40

--- Page 7 ---
TT old Prussian court building in Berlin
has a new role. Before its doors fly the
flags of the four Allies occupying Germany.
Passersby are beginning to think of it as the
new “German capitol.”

This is the home of the Allied Control
Authority—where representatives of France,
Great Britain, the Soviet Union, and the United
States gather together for as many as 30 dif-
ferent meetings daily. At these conferences,
they argue, disagree, make proposals and
counter-proposals in their difficult task of
forming four-power plans for the reconstruc-
tion of Germany.

The Allied Control Authority is a legis-
lative pyramid. At the top is the Control
Council itself, composed of the four Com-
manders-in-Chief in'Germany. The Council
meets three times a month, usually for
a brief, formal session and chiefly to sign
legislation already thoroughly discussed and

approved by quadripartite bodies at lower
levels. Sometimes, however, the Council be-
comes involved in long, far-reaching discus-
sions. And, if it cannot reach a joint decision,
there is no recourse except to the four Allied
capitals—Washington, London, Paris, and
Moscow.

Just below the Control Council in power is
the Coordinating Committee, composed of the
four deputy military governors. Meeting
about six times each month, the deputy
governors or their deputies make the final
decision on most policies, even signing the
majority of the enactments for the Control
Council. Sometimes, when the Committee is
faced with a heavy agenda, these four
generals, their deputies, their political ad-
visors, and their secretaries work steadily
for five consecutive hours before adjourning
to the buffet to talk some more.

As with governing bodies everywhere,
most legislation comes from below and is

--- Page 8 ---
processed step by step upward. Generally,
proposals reach the Coordinating Committee
through the Directorates.

There are ten Directorates and one Com-
mission of equivalent status: Combined Serv-
ices (military, air, and naval matters); Man-
power; Legal; Political; Prisoners of War
and Displaced Persons; Transport; Repara-
tions, Deliveries and Restitution; Finance;
Economic; Internal Affairs and Communica-
tions; and the German External Property
Commission,

ORGANIZATION OF DIRECTORATES

Normally, each member of a Directorate is
the head of the corresponding functional di-
vision at his national headquarters in Berlin.
Slight differences in the organization of the
national elements make for. small variations
in this rule. Directorates work long hours,

The Allied Control Authority Building in the US Sector of
Berlin, headquarters of quaripartite government for Germany.

sometimes from 11] a.m. until as late as 3 a.m.
the next morning. Normally they meet about
once a week.

Serving these Directorates are over a
hundred other quadripartite bodies—a layer
of Committees, a layer of Sub-Committees,
and a.layer of Working Parties. For
example, the Internal Affairs and Communi-
cations Directorate has the following subsid-
iary Committees and Sub-Committees, each
made up of a US, British, French, and Soviet
Member: Communications and Posts Com-
ittee with a Communications Sub-Committee,
an Organization and Finance Sub-Committee,
and a Postal Sub-Committee; Welfare Com-
mittee; Health Committee; Civil Administra-
tion Committee with a Governmental Struct-
ure Sub-Committee; Public Safety Commit-
tee with a Nazi Arrest and Denazification
Sub-Committee; Education Committee with a

Photo by Byers

--- Page 9 ---
Representatives of the four occupying powers at a meeting of the Berlin
Kommandatura. Present for the US are Maj. Gen. F. A. Keating, Assistant
Deputy Military Governor, and Col. F. L. Howley, Director of OMG Berlin Sector.

Museums Sub-Committee; Religious Affairs
Committee; and Intelligence Committee with
a Censorship Sub-Committee. In addition
to the committees serving the Directorates
of the ACA, there are 19 Committees under
the Allied Kommandatura governing Berlin.

Ultimately, the men who know the facts
and figures, and who can therefore offer
sound recommendations to the next higher
level, are usually to be found in the pencil-
pushing Working Parties. As a sample of
this important group, the “R’s” are as good
as any: Radio Working Party, Rationing
Working Party, Religious Affairs Working
Party, Reciprocal Deliveries Working Party,
Registration Working Party, and Rubber
Working Party.

From peak to base of this legislative pyra-
mid the procedure is the same, increasing a
little in formality on the way upward. The

chairmanship passes each month to a dif-
ferent nation, and the flags in front of the
building follow alphabetical suit. The dele-
gation signs on the conference tables take a
right-angle turn clockwise, and lunch is on
the new chairman. The rule of unanimity is
observed in all bodies—but likewise is the
custom of compromise.

ROLE OF INTERPRETERS

Expert interpreters solve the problem of
communication during meetings. Usually
there are two for each member, one to trans-
late his words into each of the other two
languages. Occasionally one interpreter
handles both languages, and frequently a
single interpreter serves two members simul-
taneously, regardless of their nationalities.
All quadripartite papers must be produced in
English, Russian, and French, in. contrast
with the two working languages (but 5 offi-

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 10 ---
cial languages) used by the United Nations
organization.

A parallel pyramid of quadripartite bodies
is formed by the various secretariats, one
serving each legislative body. The Allied
Secretariat serves the Control Council and
Coordinating Committee, setting their
agenda, writing and agreeing their draft
minutes, preparing their papers, making and
keeping their official records, and seeing that
only thoroughly-discussed and properly-co-
ordinated papers are presented to them. To
do this, the Allied Secretariat meets daily, under
the same unanimity rule as elsewhere, but
withoutas much formality as most of the policy-
making groups. These four men work with each
other in the same building day in and day
out, and all of them speak or understand
more than one language well enough to omit
interpreters most of the time. Unlike the

United Nations Secretariat, there is no single
secretary-general and the four national staffs
are not integrated. The chairmanship rotates,
but the chairman does not supervise any but
his own national staff, the integrated transla-
tors’ pools, the official archives, and the Liai-
son and Protocol Section.

US SECRETARY'S OFFICE

On the American side, the entire staff of
the US Secretary’s Office is in the ACA
building, but it is within the jurisdiction of
the Secretary-General at US Headquarters
OMGUS. Members of the US Secretary’s
staff keep track of forthcoming legislation
by. attending all Directorate meetings,
so that they are thoroughly acquainted
with current quadripartite problems, the
state of negotiations, and the US position
on any issue. With that background, they
are able to put into final form the written

The four members of the Allied Control Council. (left fo right) Air Marshal
Sir Shalto Douglas, Great Britain; General Joseph T. McNarney, US;
General Pierre Koenig, France; and Marshal V. D. Sokolovsky, Soviet Union.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 11 ---
unilateral briefs with which the US member
of the Control Council and Coordinating
Committee is supplied the day before he goes
into each meeting.

Secretariats all down the line perform a
somewhat similar service for their members,
but it usually is confined to the production
of papers, agenda, minutes, and transcripts.
Their most complicated task is following
proposals made in the body which they serve
and all its subsidiaries, insuring with the
Allied Secretariat that coordination has been
achieved with other parallel bodies. In
addition, the US group must see that the
American position taken on any particular
measure is coordinated with other branches
of OMGUS.

ALLIED ADMINISTRATIVE BUREAU

Auxiliary services provide still further
assistance in welding together the four-
power government of Germany. The quadri-
partite dining room and bar are supported
by equal contributions of food and drink by
each nation; the menu, printed in three
tongues, appeals successfully to four na-
tional palates. The upkeep and furnishings
of the building are likewise underwritten by

all four nations. The chief of these services
is American only because of the building’s
location in the US Sector of Berlin, and his
policies are determined by the quadripartite
Allied Administrative Bureau. This group
operates the dining room, enlisted mess, bar,
barber shop, first-aid station, and reception
and room-scheduling services. The Inter-
zonal Facilities Bureau, responsible to the
Allied Secretariat and also located in the
ACA building, issues passes for travel
between zones to Allies and Germans.

LIAISON AND PROTOCOL SECTION

Every government must keep in touch
with other governments. This in part is ac-
complished for the Allied Control. Authority
by the Liaison and Protocol Section of the
Allied Secretariat. This quadripartite group,
under a Britisch chief, is the official contact
between the ACA and the 15 nations which
have so far sent military missions to Berlin
accredited ta the Control Council. These
missions do not have offices in the ACA
building, but are scattered among the four
sectors of Berlin. The US Element of the
Allied Liaison and Protocol Section has, in
addition to its normal function of transmitt-

(Continued on page 31)

The Kommandatura Building in the US Sector of Berlin. Here
meetings of the four-power governing body of Berlin are held.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 12 ---
W's: MG began forming Land govern-
ments in the US Zone in 1945, there
was little to help them from pre-Hitler days
except a few basic laws, files, and office
furniture. Land boundaries established
through long tradition still existed, along
with Land government framework. But this
structure had been superseded by the Nazi
apparatus. Land ministers, therefore, faced
all the administrative difficulties of forming
new government agencies — with the added
headache that they inherited an assortment
of traditional concepts almost useless today.

Germans before Hitler traditionally had
stressed local government. How could they
retain this decentralization, yet unite behind
zone-wide legislation when the situation
demanded?

With German reconstruction, an organiza-
tion was needed to coordinate all matters of
civil administration affecting more than one

‘

state of the US Zone. The Laenderrat,
organized in October 1945, was the answer.
It includes the Ministers-President of the
Laender, a special delegate from each of the
Land civil governments, and the Secretary
General of the Laenderrat. Stutigart is its
permanent home, where a Directorate, com-
posed of the permanent representatives of
the Ministers-President, a secretary general,
a secretariat, and a small staff, is maintained.

SECRETARY GENERAL'S POSITION

Probably the most responsible position in
the Laenderrat is that of secretary-general,
a post held by Erich Rossmann. Besides
his work throughout Europe in the 20’s and
early 30’s to promote international dis-
armament, Rossmann has had wide ex-
perience in social and political affairs within
Germany. With this varied training and
political experience, he has helped the

--- Page 13 ---
Secretary General Rossmann addressing a
meeting of the Laenderrat in Stuttgart.

Laenderrat to create an ambitious program.
This organization has assumed responsibility
for operation of railroads, postal service,
telephones, and telegraph among the lands.
One of its most important achievements was
the drafting of the denazification law.

LEGISLATIVE FUNCTION

As reconstruction advances, more uniform
legislation will be needed, to cover such
matters as restitution, social insurance, fi-
nancial reform, and. decartelization.. When
uniform legislation cannot be obtained by
quadripartite agreement but is required for
the US Zone, Military Government recom-
mends that the Laenderrat prepare such
legislation for MG approval and enactment.
The Laenderrat also studies, comments, and
recommends proposed quadripartite legisla-
tion to be made applicable to Germany as

10

Photo by Byers

a whole. It is the policy of MG, however,
to keep a high degree of local responsibility
and to hold such general legislation to the
essential minimum. This means that the
Land governments themselves are being en-
couraged to grow and strengthen themselves.

Actually, Land governments are basically
self-contained, with little or no field service
of their own. ‘The typical Land Ministry,
therefore, is not a large organization but a
small corps of higher officials who specialize
in law and policy affecting various technical
fields, leaving most of the details of opera-
tion to local authorities or subordinate
agencies.

Each Land has a legislative assembly
(Landtag), the members of which are elected
fora term of four years under proportional
representation. Newly-created Land Bre-
men will operate much the same as the older

--- Page 14 ---
Laender. It is to°be represented on ‘the
Laenderrat and on each of the bizonal admin-
istrative agencies recently established. Pend-
ing adoption of a new constitution ‘it will
have a provisional Land government, prob-
ably similar to the present city government
of Stadt Bremen, but embodying the functions
of a Minister-President and cabinet.

DISSOLUTION OF LANTAGE

In the older Laender — Bavaria, Hesse,
and Wuerttemberg-Baden — parliamentary
forms of government are in operation. In
each case the Minister-President, or head of
the government, is elected by the Landtag,
and must resign whenever a new Landtag
takes office. Provisions for dissolving the
Landtag are various: In Hesse the Landtag
may dissolve itself through a resolution of
more than one-half its members; in Wuert-
temberg-Baden it is dissolved by majority

2

vote: in a referendum. petitioned for by
100,000 voters; and in Bavaria the Landtag
may dissolve itself by majority vote, must
be dissolved by its president if. four weeks
elapse without election of a Minister-Presi-
dent,-and also can be dissolved by refer-
endum upon petition of 1,000,000 voters.

The Minister-President appoints his min-
isters, the. number of whom are specified in
the constitution of Bavaria and by law in
Wuerttemberg-Baden, subject to Landtag
confirmation. The principle of collective
responsibility is the rule. The Landtag may
vote lack of confidence in the. Minister-Pres-
ident, in which case the whole cabinet
resigns.

Legislation is initiated by the cabinet, or
by members of the Landtag on their own
initiative. In Hesse a bill also may be in-
troduced by popular initiative. Laws and
resolutions are passed by a simple majority

The Ministers-President of the three Laender, the Chief Mayor of Bre-
men, and the Secretary General of the Laenderrat at an informal meeting.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 15 ---
vote of those present, a quorum being a
majority of the elected members. In Hesse
the cabinet may veto a law, which is then
accepted only if passed by a majority of
more than one-half the legal number of
members of the Landtag. In Wuerttemberg-
Baden the cabinet may submit a law to
popular referendum if one-third the members
of the Landtag request it, but not if the
Landtag re-passes the law by a majority
of two-thirds of its members. In Bavaria
there is no provision for veto. However,
in every parliamentary state the cabinet
can exercise what amounts to a veto power
by making an objectionable law or resolution
a “question of confidence”. In all three
states the ministers have power to issue
regulations for the administration of laws,
which, however, may be reviewed by the
administrative courts (in Bavaria by the
constitutional court if the case involves viola-
tion of the constitution).

INVESTIGATING POWERS

In all three Laender the Landtage have
wide powers of investigation. In Hesse and
Bavaria an investigating committee must be
appointed when one-fifth of the members of
the Landtag request it; in Wuerttemberg-
Baden such a committee is established upon
demand of one-fourth the members. These
committees have the power of subpoena and
may inspect all official records of the govern-
ment. The Landtag or its committees may
demand the presence of a minister or other
official. Ministers also may have access to
Landiag sessions or hearings on their own
initiative, but are bound by the rules of order
of such bodies.

Each constitution provides for a free
judiciary, the judges of which are ap-
pointed for life and may not be removed or
transferred without consent except through
impeachment or in connection with a general
reorganization of the judiciary. In general,
the judiciary is a carry-over of the pre-war
structure.

At the head of each Land government
is the Minister-President, elected by the
Landtag and representative of the majority

12

party or coalition. The people of ;Hesse,
Bavaria, and Wuerttemberg-Baden began
1947 with their first democratically-chosen
Ministers-President under the new constitu-
tions. The presidents have had years of
political experience before the Nazi regime
and in opposition while Hitler was in power.

MINISTER-PRESIDENT OF BAVARIA

Dr. Hand Ehard, the Minister-President of
Bavaria, had the distinction of serving as
second prosecutor when Hitler was tried for
leadership in the 1923 putch. Dr. Ehard
gratuated from Wuerzburg University with
a degree in law. After passing the govern-
ment bar examination, he served as an as-
sistant at the Ministry of Justice until 1923

when he became a prosecutor for the Bavarian

Superior Court; then to the Munich Ministry
of Justice. After having been appointed di-
rector in the Justice Ministry in 1931, he
voluntarily retired in 1933 when the Nazis
came to power. Later, Ehard was appointed
President of the Senate of the Civil Section
of the Munich Oberlandesgericht (Supreme
Review Board of the Superior Court).

Politically, Dr. Ehard belonged to the
Bavarian People’s Party from its establish-
ment in 1919 to its dissolution in 1933. After
the second World War he was appointed
State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice by
former Minister-President Wilhelm Hoegner,
and was installed when that government was
approved by MG on 22 October.

Dr. Ehard was elected a member of the
Constitutional Assembly last June, and was
elected to the Landtag in the 1 December
elections.

WUERTTEMBERG- BADEN LEADER

Dr. Reinhold Maier, the Minister-President
of Wuerttemberg-Baden, studied at the Uni-
viserty of Grenoble in France and at the Uni-
versity of Tuebingen. Entering the German
civil service in the Justice department, he
qualified in 1919 for a judgeship and at-
torneyship. For one year he was district sec-
retary for the German Democratic Party.
Then, in 1920, he established a law practice
at Stuttgart. He was Minister of Economics

--- Page 16 ---
for Wuerttemberg from 1929 to 1933, while
at the same time serving as Wuerttemberg
delegate to the Reichsrat. After this period
of public life he returned to his law practice.

Dr. Maier was an active member of the
Democratic Party after 1918. He became
party chairman for Stuttgart; then chairman
for Wuerttemberg and Hohenzollern, and
delegate to the Landtag and Reichstag. He
was reelected to the Reichstag in 1933, but
the mandate was declared invalid. In 1939,
Dr. Maier’s wife, of Jewish ancestry, left the
country for England with their two children.
Maier escaped action planned against him in
March 1945, by fleeing into the country and
remaining there until it was occupied by
American troops.

Christian Stock, newly-elected Minister-
President of Hesse, has been active in the
Social Democratic Party for the past 25
years. He began his career as a cigar maker
in 1910, and from then until 1922 was the

secretary of his trade union. He is a lead-
ing authority on social insurance and labor
legislation, having been director of the
Health Insurance Institute at Heidelberg
and Frankfurt from 1922 until 1933,
;when the Nazis dismissed him _ because
of his long record of democratic politics.
He was confined in a concentration camp
for eight months under the Nazis.

More relevant to his present responsibili-
ties is the fact that he was elected to the
Heidelberg City Council, as a Social Demo-
cratic member, and held his’ position until
1932. He also served as a member of the
1919 Constitiutional Convention, which draft-
ed the Weimar Constitution, and as a Par-
liamentary Secretary in the Reich Govern-
ment in 1920. After the recent war, Stock
was a delegate to the Constitutional Conven-
tion which drafted Hesse’s present con-
stitution. (Continued on page 32)

(lett) The Villa Reitzenstein in Stuttgart where meetings
of the Laenderrat are held; (below) Erich Rossmann,
Secretary General of fhe Laenderrat. Photos by Byers

--- Page 17 ---
he formula for the application of Military

Government to the US occupied areas of
Germany is contained in “Military Govern-
ment Regulations,” established by the
Theater Commander to prescribe the policies
and procedures for MG of the US Zone.
These regulations are issued for compliance
by all US military and civilian personnel
concerned but do not cover matters pertain-
ing to the command and administration of
US Forces other than MG personnel, and
matters primarily of military, air, or naval
interest.

“Military Government Regulations” in-
clude a total of 25 “Titles,” each dealing
with a specific subject with which MG is
concerned. One title deals with general
provisions and another contains all MG
legislation issued or continued by the Con-
trol Council or by MG. Other titles may be
added and changes in current titles may be

14

made as amendments or additions to the
Regulations.

The purpose of all Military Government is
set forth in Title 1 dealing with the “General
Provisions” of MG Regulations. It states:
“Germany will be occupied not for the pur-
pose of liberation but as a defeated enemy
nation. It is not intended to destroy or
enslave the German people but to occupy
Germany for the purpose of realizing certain
Allied objectives. The conduct of Military
Government will be just but firm and aloof.”

The principal objective is “to assure that
Germany never again will threaten her
neighbors or the peace of the world,” to
which the essential steps in its accomplish-
ment are the elimination of German
militarism and Nazism in all their forms, the
complete disarmament and demilitarization
of Germany, and the elimination or control
of all German industry that could be used

--- Page 18 ---
for military production. Other objectives
are:

To arrest and bring to swift and sure
justice war criminals and those who have
participated in planning or carrying out
. Nazi enterprises involving or resulting in
atrocities or war crimes,.and to arrest and
intern Nazi leaders, influential supporters,
high officials of Nazi organizations, and
institutions, and any other person dangerous
to the occupation or its objectives.

To convince the Germans that they have
suffered a total military defeat, that they
cannot escape responsibility for what they
have brought upon themselves, and that their
own ruthless warfare and fanatical Nazi
resistance destroyed German economy and

administration and made chaos and suffering -

inevitable.

OPPORTUNITY FOR RECONSTRUCTION

To give the German people the op-
portunity to prepare for the eventual recon-
struction of German political life on a demo-
cratic and peaceful basis, and for eventual
peaceful. participation in international life
by Germany.

To enforce the program of reparations
and restitution, to provide relief for the
benefit of countries devastated by Nazi ag-
gression, and to insure that prisoners of war
and displaced persons of the United Nations
are cared for and repatriated.

Title 1 also provides that so far as
practicable, there is to be uniformity of
treatment of the German population through-
out Germany. The administration of affairs
in Germany is to be directed towards the
decentralization of the political structure
and the development of local responsibility.
Although certain central German adminitra-
tive departments are to be established by the
Control Council, particularly in the fields of
finance, transport, communications, foreign
trade, and industry (food and agriculture
later included), the German economy, for the
most part, is to be decentralized for the pur-
pose of eliminating excessive concentration
of economic power.

Controls are imposed upon the German
economy but only to the extent necessary:

To carry out programs of industrial dis-
armament and demilitarization, of repara-
tions, and of approved exports and imports.

To assure the production and ‘maintenance’
of goods-and services required to meet the
needs of the occupying forces and displaced
persons in Germany and essential to
maintain in Germany average living
standards not exceeding the average of
living of European countries (excluding the
UK and USSR).

To insure, in the manner determined by
the Control Council, the equitable distribu-
tion of essential commodities between the
several zones so as to produce a balanced
economy throughout Germany and reduce’ the
need for imports. :

To control German industry and all
economic and financial. international trans-
actions, including exports and imports, with
the aim of preventing Germany from
developing a war potential, and of achieving
the other objectives of MG.

To control all German public or private
scientific bodies, research and experimental
institutions, laboratories, and similar institu-
tions connected with economic activities.

Military Government is effected, as a
general principle, through indirect rule. In
the imposition and maintenance of such
controls as are prescribed, the German
authorities are ordered to the fullest extent
practicable to proclaim and assume ad-
ministration of such controls, and responsi-
bility for any breakdown in these controls
rests with the German people. Any German
control which runs counter to MG objectives
is prohibited.

The other 24 titles under MG Regulations
and the field with which each deals are:

Title 2 — Eradication of Nazism and
Militarism.

Title 3. — Political Activities.

Title 4 —~ Civil Administration

Title 5 — Legal and Penal Ad-
ministration.

Title 6 — Public Health.

Title 7 — Public Welfare.

Title 8 — Education and Religious
Affairs.

(Continued on page 33)

--- Page 19 ---
he Office of Military Government for

Germany (US) and Military Government
agencies throughout the US Zone are pri-
marily part of the control machinery set up
for the civil government of Germany. Their
organizational structure and administrative
procedures are adapted to the functions
being performed and to normal governmental
practices.

Besides staffing the US Element of the
Allied Control Authority, OMGUS performs
the functions of developing MG policies for
the US Zone, providing general staff co-
ordination and administrative supervision of
approved MG policies, and exercising func-
tional supervision over MG policies.

To carry out the policies and directives
developed at OMGUS, and see that they
are put into operation, Military Govern-
ment offices function at the various levels
of German government within the US areas.

16

In the capital of each Land is an Office of
Military Government to correspond to the
Land government. In each city (Stadtkreis)
and county (Landkreis) is a Liaison and
Security Detachment. On the level of the
Laenderrat (German Council of States) is
the Regional Government Coordinating
Office. However, with the democratic elec-
tion of German officials, the functions of
MG offices has evolved during the past year
from operational control to principally that
of observing, advising, and reporting.

The US Zone is composed of four states
(Laender) — Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
Hesse, and Bremen. Bavaria is the same as
constituted in 1933, less the Kreis Lindau.
Wuerttemberg-Baden comprises the northern
parts of the two provinces of those names,
the southern parts being in the French
Zone of occupation. Hesse, formerly known
as Greater Hesse, consists of Kurhessen,

--- Page 20 ---
most of Nassau, Hessen-Starkenburg, Ober-
hessen, and the part of Rheinhessen east of
the Rhine. Bremen was recently created as
a state, embracing the area of Stadt Bremen,
Land Gebiet Bremen, and Stadtkreis Weser-
muende.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF LAND OMG'S

Military Government in each state is exer-
cised by a Land Office of Military Govern-
ment which is a separate command under
the Deputy Military Governor. At the
head of each Land OMG is a Director who
commands all MG offices within that state
and all units and personnel attached or
assigned to it, except as specifically exempt-
ed. The responsibilities of each Director
are:

1. Direction of activities of subordinate
units of his command, including the issuance

The Director of the Ebersberg Liaison and Security Office and members of the
Kreistag (county legislature) confer on the proposed contruction of a new Hospital.

17

of necessary directives, orders, and instruc-
tions,

2, Administration of the US personnel
under his command, pertaining to assign-
ment and transfer of personnel, authorized
travel within the Theater, promotions and
demotions, awards and decorations, and the
issuance of orders to carry out the above in
accordance with Theater policy.

3. Supervision and advisory duties for
German civil agencies and other civilian
activities, directly or through subordinate
MG offices.

Instructions and interpretations of MG
policy are given to the German governmental
machinery by the Director through the Land
Minister-President. Such information passes
to the lower elements of the German gov-
ernment through the German administrative
machinery. Copies of these instructions are

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 21 ---
A liaison and security officer visits a handicraft
enterprise operated by recently-arrived refugees.

furnished to all field offices below the Land
OMG for information so that they may be
sure that the Germans comply with US
policies.

The functional divisions and branches of
the Land OMG correspond, in general, to
the functional divisions and branches of
OMGUS, but reshaped, where necessary, to
match the functions of the German Land
government. For example, in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden three divisions — Denazifica-
tion, Interior, and Education and Religious
Affairs — correspond to German Land
ministries, but at OMGUS, these functions
are included in the structure of the Internal
Affairs and Communications Division.

Operating under the Land OMG are
Functional Field Teams, consisting of
specialist officers who perform duties in ac-
cordance with requirements of the functional

18

Signal Corps Photo

divisions and branches. These teams assume
the major burden in specialized inspecting,
advisory, and reporting duties in the field,
to insure that Liaison and Security Offices
are able to carry out their primary functions
without engaging extensively in functional
activities.
SPECIFIC DUTIES OUTLINED

The Functional Field Teams are normally
charged with the following specific duties:

1. Inspecting German agencies and
activities within their functional scope for
compliance with the directives and policies
of MG authorities and the Allied Control
Authority,

2. Preparing standard reports on the
agencies and activities inspected in accord-
ance with directives from higher MG
authorities, outlining the scope and type of
information to be obtained by the Land

--- Page 22 ---
Office of Military Government.

3. Reviewing the achievements, selection
of personnel, and problems of the agencies
and activites inspected; and preparing spe-
cial reports and recommendations for the
Land OMG to assist in the development of
policies and procedures by higher MG
echelons.

4. Checking the correctness and complete-
ness of data submitted by local German
agencies to the OMG through German chan-
nels of transmittal.

5. Furnishing the Liaison and Security
Offices with data, advice, and assistance in
matters that fall within the jurisdiction of
such offices, ,

However, the Functional Field Teams do
not, without specific authority, issue orders
to local German agencies. In instances re-
quiring corrective measures, the data is nor-
mally transmitted to the Land OMG which
issues the necessary instructions to the Ger-

This liaison and security officer is checking the amount of food
stuffs held back from market by a farmer for his personal use.

man civil authorities at Land level for trans-
mittal to the Germany agencies concerned.

Uniformity of, administration within the
US Zone is fostered by the Regional Gov-
ernment Coordinating Office, a small, com-
pact committee of American specialists-sta-
tioned in Stuttgart where it can be in close —
contact with the Laenderrat. The RGCO,
operating under the Deputy Military Gov-
ernor, is headed by a Director responsible
for advising and supervising the Laenderrat.
It acts as-a coordinating agency for MG
matters affecting more than one Land OMG
within the US Zone. Liaison officers from
the Land OMG’s are attached to the RGCO.
All matters to be presented to the Laender-
rat by Military Government are transmitted
through the RGCO.

Specific functions assigned to the RGCO
are:

1. To advise and supervise the Laender-
rat, including the Secretariat, the committees,

(Continued on page 34)

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 23 ---
he rights, powers, and status of Military

Government in Germany are based on the
unconditional surrender and total defeat of
Germany. Subject to the authority of the
Allied Control Council on matters within its
jurisdiction, the Theater Commander, by
virtue of his position, is the Military Gov-
ernor and holds supreme legislative, ex-
ecutive, and judical power within the US
Zone.

The Deputy Military Governor is for mil-
itary purposes the Commanding General, Of-
fice of Military Government for Germany
(US). Under the directions of the Military
Governor, he exercises full control over all
duties and functions of military and civilian
personnel assigned to that office. He is aided
by the Assistant Deputy Military Governor
who acts for him in his absence and performs
such other functions as the DMG may direct,
and by the Regional Government Coordinat-

ing Office which is responsible for unifying
the activities of the Land Offices of Mil-
itary Government.

OMGUS, comprising the staff of the
Deputy Military Governor, acts as the DMG’s
channe! of communication with Military Gov-
ernment in the US Zone, usually employing
normal Theater Command channels. A tech-
nical or staff channel of communications on
MG matters is also used to expedite com-
munication and to gain consistency in opera-
tions and policy. German civil administrative
channels are permitted to operate among civil
agencies at Land, Regierungsbezirk, and
Kreis levels after insuring that Offices of
Military Government at subordinate levels
are not by-passed on matters within their
jurisdiction.

The Chief of Staff of OMGUS is respon-
sible to the DMG and the ADMG for co-
ordination of all executive action within the

--- Page 24 ---
.

Headquarters, for general supervision of the
OMGUS staff, and for taking final action on
all staff matiers except those requiring the
personal attention of the DMG and the
ADMG. The Chief of Staff is specifically
responsible for directing and controlling the
activities of the executive offices consisting
of the Secretary General, the Control Officer,
the Personnel Officer, and their subordinate
agencies.

DEPUTY TO CHIEF OF STAFF

The Secretary General is deputy to the
Chief of Staff and takes executive action for
him in matters not requiring his personal
attention. The Secretary General coordinates
and supervises the activities of the Staff Sec-
retary, the Bipartite Secretary, and the US
Secretariat, thus coordinating MG matters
with quadripartite functions and joint ac-

The Deputy Military Governor, Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, and members
of his staf are shown at a recent OMGUS staff conference.

tivities with the British Zone authorities. The
SG must prepare briefs for the DMG on
bipartite and quadripartite matters. He also
exercises general supervision over the activi-
ties of the Office of the Adjutant General for
the Chief of Staff.

The Staff Secretary and his assistants per-
form Secretary General staff functions for
OMGUS. They coordinate the data from the
several divisions and offices of OMGUS and
prepare in final form the draft letters, direct-
ives, staff studies, cables, and all other forms
of executive actions for submission to the
DMG and his principal assistants. They co-
ordinate staff action on all US matiers han-
dled in the headquarters except those dealt
with through executive channels. They work
directly with all divisions and functional of-
fices in completing staff action, and it is also
their duty to process completed staff action

Photo by Rosenberg

--- Page 25 ---
which has been coordinated by the Control
Officer or the Personnel Officer.

- The Bipartite Secretary is responsible for
US representation on the Bipartite Secretariat.
This is a joint US-British agency attached to
the Bipartite Board, an organization com-
posed of the US and British DMG’s. In ad-
dition, he shares responsibility with the Staff
Secretary’s asssistants for coordinating Bi-
partite matters within OMGUS and prepar-
ing briefs under the direction of the Secretary
General.

The Control Office assists the DMG in
making certain that Military Government
units and personnel are operating both effect-
ively and efficiently in respect to manpower,
funds, and effort. Basic responsibilities of
this office and its branches include:

A continued review of the progress of the
functional offices and divisions, and a con-
stant check on their implementation through
quadripartite, bipartite, and zonal action.

_ Review and editing of new instructions on
policies and procedures to be issued as MG
Regulations.

Preparation of the Military Governor’s
reports, weekly MG cables, and the Weekly
Information Bulletin.

Analysis of organizational and adminis-
trative problems, channels, procedures, and
relationships, and recommendations of appro-
priate changes in the interest of economy and
efficiency.

Audit of MG accounts.

Preparation, defense, justification, and
control of budgets and budgetary allocations
of funds, equipment, personnel, and supplies.

Control over manpower and manpower al-
locations of MG personnel, including indige-
nous personnel, the latter in liaison with the
Manpower Division.

. Establishment and maintenance of statistic-

al standards, and coordination and technical
supervision of systems of reporting, forms,
and records. :

Writing of the history of Military Govern-
ment.

The Office of the Personnel Officer has a
dual purpose: First, it must develop policies,

procedures, and staff supervision pertaining
to procurement and administration of all US
military and civilian personnel, plus Allied,
neutral, displaced, and indigenous personnel
employed in MG headquarters and field
agencies; and second, it has an operational
responsibility for administration of civilian
employees stationed in Berlin and the pro-
curement of US civilian and military per-
sonnel for the entire command.

The Personnel Officer, a member of the
MG Manpower Board which determines
strength allocations, assists the Control Of-
ficer in preparing budget estimates and justi-
fications on personnel matters. By a system
of reports, strength accounting, and surveys,
he assures conformance with manpower and
budgetary restrictions. —

PROCUREMENT OF US PERSONNEL

Procurement of US personnel for duty in
Germany presents a problem in that the
normal source of supply is from the United
States. To avoid time lag, additional ex-
pense, and loss of qualified and experienced
military personnel by rotation, many of these
persons have been retained for MG work by
converting them to civilian status through
the assistance of the OPO.

The Personnel Office consists of an ex-
ecutive office and four branches — Ad-
ministrative, Civilian Personnel, Military
Personnel, and Indigenous Personnel.

The Administrative Branch prepares and
maintains payroll controls and payrolls for
all US, Allied, and neutral civilian personnel
stationed in Berlin; maintains US civilian
201 (personal record) files, service records,
and position control files; prepares and trans-
mits reports and surveys regarding personnel
matters to the DMG and higher headquarters;
coordinates policy directives which affect
military and civilian personnel. It also facil-
itates the implementation of War Depart-
ment and Theater directives by preparing
and ‘disseminating procedures for civilian
persorinel administration. .

The Civilian Personnel Branch, at staff and
operational levels, is responsible for for-

(Continued on page 36)

--- Page 26 ---
’

Ordinance Establishes Legal

Possession and Use of Script

MG Ordinance No. 10, entitled “Ilegal
Possession of United States Military Pay-
ment Certificates,” has been promulgated
by OMGUS. This legislation, designed to
define clearly the establishments and
persons authorized to possess and use mil-
itary payment certificates, . provides that all
persons in the US Zone of Germany and
Bremen, with the exception of authorized
personnel are prohibited from accepting, ac-
quiring, holding, possessing, purchasing, sell-
ing, or exchanging US military payment
certificates or engaging in any transaction
involving such certificates.

The following persons are authorized
to possess and use military payment certif-
icates: members of the US military and
naval forces and their dependents; civilians
who are US citizens and are employed
under contract by the War Department or
other US governmental department or
agency, and their dependents; US citizens
who are present in the US Zone or Land
Bremen with the specific authorization of the
War Department or the Theater Commander;
commercial companies officially licensed by
the US Government to engage in transactions
now requiring the use of military payment cer-
tificates; and any persons who are authorized
by competent authority to possess military
payment certificates or to purchase from or
otherwise patronize US military or naval
messes, exchanges, stores, commissaries,
and/or other US Army or Navy facilities
of appropriate mess cards or permits or as
evidenced by the issuance or possession of
ration certificates, or by reason of enabling
US directives.

The Ordinance does not prohibit, however,
the handling of military payment certificates
by unauthorized personnel in the course of
their official duties as employees of persons

or establishments if such persons or esf@h-
lishments are authorized to possess cl use
certificates. It provides that any person upon
conviction of a violation of any of its provi-
sions shall be liable to any punishment which
a court may impose except death.

Action by MG Courts

US MG courts in Germany tried a total of
159,439 Germans and DP’s during 1946,
of which 129,274 were convicted. Over one-
fourth of the total convictions involved
disobedience of MG orders. Theft or illegal
possession of Allied property ranked next
as a frequent cause of conviction, followed
by prejudicial acts or conduct hostile to
Allied Forces.

Juvenile crime showed a downward trend
as the number of juvenile convictions dur-
ing the last four months of 1946 dropped
by 60 percent from the high mark reached
in August. Juvenile convictions during the
year comprised 6.4 percent of the total con-
victions in the US-occupied area.

At the end of 1946 250 MG courts were
in operation, compared with 325 courts at
the beginning of the year.

Business Contacts Expanded

The US State Department has asserted
that persons in the United States owning
property or having other proprietary inter-
ests in Germany may now communicate
directly with business parties or interests
in that country without channeling such
inquiries through the Department.

Under wartime restrictions persons in the
United States were prohibited from com-
municating with individuals in Germany
concerning their property nor could per-
sons in that country communicate such
information to US residents. Therefore,
thousands of persons who fled to the United

--- Page 27 ---
States “before the war have had no
knowledge of their former properties or
“interests in Germany.

"Lifting of the restrictions means all types
of messages looking toward resumption
of business relations with Germany may
now be freely circulated along with trans-
mission of documents such as birth, death,
or marriage certificates, wills, and legal
notices.

However, the State Department added,
transactional communications with Germany
are still prohibited, including any com-

“munication which constitutes or contains
authorizations or instructions to effect any
financial, business or commercial transaction,
as well as tranmission of powers of attorney,
checks, money orders, and the like.

Increase in DP Population

The number of United Nations displaced
persons in assembly centers in the US Zone
increased from approximately 368,000 on
1 July 1946 to 376,000 on 31 December. A
peak of 410,000 DP’s was reached on
30 September. USFET Headquarters, in
making the announcement, stated that the
increase occurred despite the total of repat-
tiation and resettlement of more than
107,000 DP’s and the elimination of 16,000
ineligible DP’s who had been residing in
DP camps.

This overall reduction of 123,000 in DP
camp population was offset by a gain of
131,000 DP’s, attributed to the infiltrating
of approximately 70,000 Jewish DP’s and
the acceptance into camps of approximately
61,000 eligible DP’s who had been living
within the German economy. Of the 61,000
DP’s who entered camps during the six-
month period, 41,000 were Polish. Thus,
although 92,000 Polish DP’s were repatri-
ated in the last half of 1946, the Polish in-
camp population decreased by only 51,000,
from 165,000 in July to 114,000 in Decem-
ber.

In addition to the total in-camp population
of 376,000 an additional 135,000 eligible
DP’s were estimated to be living in the

24

American Zone outside of DP camps. There
are also 34,000 DP’s organized in civilian
labor services who do not appear in the
m-camp population figures. These categories
bring to approximately 545,000 the number
of DP’s who remained a US Army respons-
ibility on 31 December.

Interzonal Trade Accord

German representatives of the British-US
Zones and the French Zone have concluded
an agreement providing for the interchange,
during the first quarter of 1947, of goods
and materials worth 66 million RM, with
each group to deliver items worth 33 mil-
lion RM. The agreement is subject to ap-
proval of French MG.

The combined British-US Zone will sup-
ply mainly iron, steel, and finished iron and
steel products such as spares for machinery.
They will also supply textiles, plywood,
tires and tubes, technical rubber articles,
non-ferrous metals, chemical products, elec-
tro-technical appliances, building materials,
paper, office equipment, and breeding
cattle.

The French Zone will deliver sawn timber,
pit props, textiles, clocks and watches, sur-
gical instruments, precision tools and optics,
steel and iron, finished steel and iron prod-
ucts, including agricultural machinery and
sewing machines, ores, refractories, chem-
ical products, paper and wood pulp, to-
bacco, and cattle for slaughter.

Ration Scale Retained

The 1,550 calories ration for normal con-
sumers in the US and British Zones of Ger-
many now in effect continues in the 98th
ration period beginning 3 February. This
ration, recommended by the Bizonal Ex-
ecutive Committee for Food and Agricul-
ture, was approved by British and US Mil-
itary Government Headquarters. The ration
compositions for all children categories and
for the normal consumer category vary
only in potatoes and bread.

--- Page 28 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The Coordinating Committee of ACA has
approved in principle the inauguration of
terminal international telephone and _tele-
graph communications for Germany, and
rules and regulations of service will be is-
sued by ACA. 15 February has been set
as the tentative date on which this service
will become effective.

A great number of scientific institutions
formerly located in Berlin and then trans-
ferred to Thuringia have finally been
brought to the US Zone, many of them to
Heidelberg. They will be distributed among
the four US Zone Laender, which will fi-
nance them.

An implementation of the announcement
by General McNarney to extend amnesty
to persons in low income groups has been
drafted by the German Denazification Com-
mittee and approved by the Denazification
Ministers for submission to the Laender-
rat.

FOOD SHIPMENTS FROM US

During the first 18 days of January, ap-
proximately 145,000 tons of food arrived
from the United States for consumption by
the civilian population of US-occupied ter-
ritory. This food consisted mainly of
wheat, flour, and other bulk grains.

Extreme cold in the latter part of De-
cember has caused a considerable decline in
deliveries of potatoes, which are not loaded
in freezing weather because freezing renders
them unfit for human consumption. However,
December deliveries of breadgrains and
barley, which are not damaged by cold,
increased to the highest levels of the cur-
rent marketing season.

Quadripartite decision has been reached
and orders issued in all zones that the
Reichsbahn accept all International Red
Cross shipments destined for the German
civilian population without cost, subject
to later settlement on the question of trans-
portation charges.

The Leitz plant in Wetzlar, Hesse, man-

ufacturers of Leica cameras, has been closed
since 21 December because of insufficient
coal,

The reorganization and decentralization
required to implement the bipartite export-
import organization has been completed. The
seat of this agency, known as the ‘Joint
Export-Import Agency,” will be located at
Minden in the British Zone. All contracts
negotiated since 1 January 1947 have been
drawn up in the name of the new bipartite
organizataon.

IARA SUB-ALLOCATES EQUIPMENT

The Inter-Allied Reparation Agency at
Brussels has  sub-allocated _ reparations
equipment in nine additional plants in the
US Zone to its member nations. Recipient
nations include Belgium, France, United
Kingdom, Greece, New Zealand, India,
Australia, and the United States. The US
will receive aircraft engines and optical
instruments from this allocation.

The Export-Import Reichsmark account at
the Frankfurt Reichsbank will be divided
among the Land Central Banks in order to
prevent any further drain of cash from other
Laender to Hesse.

A delegation from the World Federation
of Trade Unions arrived in Stuttgart on
22 January to begin a tour of the US Zone
as part of their study of trade unions and
working conditions in the four zones of Ger-
many.

PERFORMANCES OF AMERICAN PLAYS

During the week ending 21 January, 27
performances of American plays were given
in Berlin, or 50 percent of all plays present-
ed in the city in that period. Of all Amer-
ican plays running at present in Germany,
the most popular is “Three Men on a Horse,”
which up to 21 January has had 169 con-
secutive performances.

Because of the coal shortage, elementary
and high schools of Stuttgart were closed
two days each week through most of Jan-

uary.

--- Page 29 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-

tained by writing to the originating head-

quarters.

Civilian Agreements andLeaves

“Employment Agreements and Interim
Leaves” are clarified in USFET and OMG-
US communications on the subject, distribut-
ed in consolidated form as OMGUS Letter
AG 230 (AG), dated 16 January 1947.
Important points contained in the basic
communication (USFET Letter AG 230
GAP-AGE, dated 6 January 1947) and
an OMGUS Indorsement (AG 230 (PO) dat-
ed 15 January 1947) are as follows:

Effective immediately, “interim” leaves
at government expense are no longer
authorized for employees of any nationality.
Leave may be granted to US civilian em-
pleyees not oftener than once a year to visit
the United States. After the employee has
served in the theater for three consecutive
years, he may be granted 60 days leave, or
leave without pay, if appropriate, in the ZI.
For both types of leave transportation to
the ZI may be granted in the Occupied Zone
and between ports on Army equipment at no
expense to the government. All other trans-
portation and subsistence are at the expense
of the employee.

The main difference in the two types of
leave is that on leaves taken after three years
of employment in the theater, travel time
runs from dates of entering and leaving the
continental United States; for an “interim”
leave taken before completing three years in
the theater, time runs from dates of leaving
and returning to post of duty.

In regard to employment agreements, the
minimum period of service for US Civilians
recruited’ in the ZI for service in the
European Theater is. now two years. Those
persons whose employment agreements were
for shorter periods may be returned to point

26

of hire at government expense and in duty
status at expiration of agreement. If such
individuals are willing to remain in the
theater for additional service, their employ-
ment agreements may be “extended,” at the
convenience of, and for such time as is
desired by, the employing agency. This is
not applicable to ex-military personnel, who
may be employed for one year.

Security Courier Service

A Security Courier Office is to be establish-
ed in OMG of each Land and in the Regional
Government Coordinating Office, according
to an indorsement by OMGUS of USFET
Directive AG 3114 AGO, dated 27 De-
cember 1946. The directive states that the
function of the Security Courier Service is
to provide courier service within the Euro-
pean Theater, to the Mediterranean Theater,
and to the United States for the dispatch
of certain classified and governmeutal
material and such other materials as may
be prescribed by the War Department. It
is desired that a Security Courier Office
be established in the headquarters of each
major command, under the supervision of
the Adjutant General of the command.

Change in APO

APO 755, US Army, formerly serving the
Berlin sector, has been discontinued and its
facilities consolidated with APO 742, ac-
cording to OMGUS Letter AG 311.1 (BC),
dated 22 January 1947. All personnel as-
signed or attached to the staff divisions and
offices of OMGUS, Hq Berlin Command,
and Special Troops Berlin Command, except
as indicated below, will now receive their
mail through APO 742, US Army. All T/O
and non-T/O units and agencies assigned or
attached to OMGUS, Berlin Command, and
Templehof Army Air Base, except as indicat-
ed above, and all branches and installations
located in the McNair Barracks Compound,
will receive their mail through APO 742-A,
US Army.

--- Page 30 ---
US Interim Peace Proposal

The beginning of the London Preliminary
Conference on a peace plan for Germany
renewed news and editorial interest in the
peace discussions, according to the weekly
analysis by the Office of the Director of In-
formation Control, OMGUS, of the German
licensed press of the US Zone.

The announcement of US Ambassador
Robert D. Murphy’s proposal for an interim
peace period pending the establishment of a
German government was ithe basis of an
editorial in the Oberbayerisches Volksblatt
(Rosenheim). It said in part:

“That would indeed be a radical and
complete solution . . . the final consequence
of unconditional surrender and of the ‘Ger-
man policy’ which preceded it. Many doubts
and difficulties of future German domestic
politics would thus be avoided . . .”

Yet, “as no sound relationship between
peoples can be built on a forced solution by
dictation . . . the decision on the final peace
treaty would only be postponed. But this
would involve a gain rather than a loss of
time — a gain in time cannot be valued too
highly for the mental growth underlying
political developments.”

* * *

Noting recent proposals by US Ambassador
Robert D. Murphy and British Foreign
Secretary Bevin calling for an interim state
of peace with Germany at this time, the US
licensed Tagesspiegel in Berlin supported the
proposals and declared they seem to fit into
a correct sequence of events.

The paper pointed out that Germany has
no sovereign government and that one should
not talk of a peace treaty when the entire
situation is against it. Observing that the
occupation will last for an indefinite time
and that the Control Council will have the
highest governmental power, the paper said
it would therefore be logical if this body

27

would promulgate a ;

“After the passing” ®f such a law the
rious Laender might decide on a fusion into
a German federal republic,” it continued,
stating that it seems as if the London Con-
ference is thinking along similar lines. Here-
with the paper referred to Lt. Gen. Lucius D.
Clay’s Berlin press conference of 6 January
wherein Ambassador Murphy “suggested a
new procedure in setting up the peace treaty.
Although he seemed to believe personally in
a signature for such a treaty, he did not in-
dicate who should sign.”

The paper further made note of Bevin’s
remarks of 15 January at which time he
doubted whether one should set up a peace
treaty at all, for since there is no German
government to sign a treaty it might be better
to impose on Germany a peace statute.

Such a peace statute would constitute an-
other step forward in our development and
to our thinking would follow the correct
sequence of events,” declared the Tagesspie-
gel. “In any case entirely new methods are
called for. The most important thing is our
undisturbed future and not the setting up of
definite and final facts. Under a state of
peace Germany will be able to feel its way
and judge the situation as it develops . . .”

Nazi-like Slogans

Dissecting some of the Nazi-like slogans
going the rounds these days in Germany,
Radio Berlin noted first that dismissed of-
ficials advise the people that “we can be
saved only by a new war. . . we Germans
are a people of soldiers . . . our chance will
come again.” To this the radio pointed out
that such men do not see the terrible destruc-
tion, nor the other consequences but dream
only of new abundance and booty from at-
tached countries. Such men, declared the
radio, do not realize that “another aggressive
war would not only be a crime against hu-

--- Page 31 ---
manity “but also the end of the German
people.”

To others who say that Germany’s best
weapons were just being developed, the radio
declared that neither the priority of Ger-
many with reference to rocket research nor
of America with atom bombs would decide
another war but the fighting spirit of the
people. One must decide between fascism
and democracy, war and peace, dictatorship
of a few and self-government of the people,
declared the radio. Regarding the contention
that the Aliles have conquered and must now
manage, the radio declared that the Germans
must bear responsibility, that Germany must
not give cause for mistrust but show she is
ready to resume responsibility.

American Caution Cited

Seeing no great change in America’s pol-
icy towards Germany as a result of the
receit shift in the Secretary of State, the
Soviet-licensed LDP organ, Der Morgen, re-
stated the viewpoints laid down by Lt. Gen.
Lucius D. Clay, US Deputy Military Gov-
ernor.

According to the paper General Clay’s
statements show that the Americans intend to
turn over military administration to civilian
control cautiously and step by step and to
create economic collaboration.

“Caution is also the principal tendency on
the part of America in developing further
economic relations,” added the paper. “One
now allows American businessmen to come
to Germany but one cannot expect an im-
mediate American investment in German
economy so long as Germany’s economy has
not regained an orderly way.”

This caution, noted the paper, is com-
prehensible when one considers the “uncertain
fate of American capital invested in Germany
at the start of the war.” The paper express-
ed the hope that the economic development
in Germany will gain an orderly way as
soon as possible “‘so that foreign capital can
again be invested here, for it is a plain truth
that a shattered economy can never be re-

28

stored by mere words unless capital is added”.
“Only a layman ignorant of economies can

believe that Germany is able to produce the - »

necessary capital by herself,” declared the
Liberal Democratic Party organ.

Majority Representation

In an editorial supporting the majority
system over the proportional one, the Tages-
Spiegel, US licensed newspaper in Berlin,
cited as a model case the fact that under the
proportional system the KPD in Bavaria is-
not represented in the Bavarian” Landtag,
though the Free Democratic Party is re-
presented, even though it got less votes than
the Communists.

Calling the Free Democratic party one
which in the interests of a sound political
development shouldn’t exist, the paper de-
clared that one cannot remove the basic faults
of the proportional system by the proposal
made by the Social Democrats that one
reduce the 10 percent clause to five percent.

“An equal distribution of votes is right
when one wants to set up parliamentary com-
mittees and similar instutitions according to
party fractions, but it falsifies the sense of
general elections in which the people decide
the political course,” declared the paper.
“The example of the Bavarian Communists
shows clearly that the majority system satis-
fies the minorities much better than the pro-
portional system.”

New Press Defended

The Fraenkischer Tag (Bamberg) marked
its first anniversary with an editorial saying,
“The opponents of this new type of news-
paper are naturally above all those men who
controlled the press before and wish to carry
on their politics again today in the same
sense as before 1933. We know that they
cannot understand that it was precisely they
who paved the way to Hitler and doom.
Through their opinionated and financially
dependent newspapers they turned the people
into an uncritical mass, into obedient cattle
with votes, first for their interests, later for
the NSDAP.”

--- Page 32 ---
Marshall’s Fitness for Office
Stressed as He Assumes Duties

US newspapers acclaimed General George
C. Marshall upon his taking office as Secre-
tary of State. Editorials pointed to Marshall’s
qualifications, both as a soldier and states-
man. In view of this, they said, the peoples
of the world can expect to learn through the
new Secretary precisely where the United
States stands on various issues, and for what
it stands,

They foresee little change in the conduct
of foreign policy from that pursued under
Secretary Byrnes, and they note that Byrnes
has cleared the way for a straightforward
approach to vital problems confronting his
successor.

Washington Post said in part: “General
Marshall will have little time to get used to
his new assignment in the State Department.
He will have to plunge immediately into the
preparatory work for the Moscow meeting of
the Council of Foreign Ministers in March.
Fortunately he has a number of advantages
which will stand him in good stead in mak-
ing the adjustment. He takes office amid
the acclaim of the nation and the full faith
of the President. In Under Secretary Ache-
son he has a deputy who knows how to take
command when authority is delegated to him.

“The General has personal qualities which
will enable him speedily to acclimate himself
to his new post. He has a quick and lively
mind and immense powers of concentration . .

“But Marshall’s greatest advantage in
falling into place without much apprentice-
ship lies in his standing with the world. . .
As Chief of Staff in the war he had to be
familiar even with the farthermost place in
Africa, It must be welcome to the world of
nations that there is nothing narrow-minded
in our new Secretary of State. There is no
novitiate for him to go through in either
world geography or world politics. More-

is particularly important in our personalized
relations with Moscow. To the Russians
Marshall is appreciated as the man who
seconded them in urging the opening of the
‘second front,’ or the front in Western
Europe.

“Marshall will now have to direct, in con-
cert with our allies, the strategy of winning
the peace. It is a historic mission, It will
tax all the resources of his agile mind and
vigorous body. His experience in China adds
to his equipment for the task . . . Marshall
is used to the successful completion of his
assignments. In this case he was a failure.
It was, to be sure, a preordained failure, but
a lesser man, seeing a failure ahead of him,
would have assumed a kind of martyr com-
plex, perhaps a case of paranoia. Nothing
of the kind is part of the Marshall make-up
. . - He profited by the lesson, and the very
acknowledgement of his disillusion made a
profound impression on China . . . The Chi-
nese know precisely where he stands. They

* respect him for it. The whole world, we

hope, will know through the medium of the
new Secretary precisely where the United
States stands, and what it stands for.. This
is one of the surest ways of preventing a
repetition of wars which in the case of the
last two started with a question mark over
American policy.”

Philadelphia Inquirer: “As a sequel to his
notable part in winning victory he has been
engaged for more than a year in an effort to
prevent a terrible civil conflict in China. The
issue there continues in doubt, but Marshall’s
experience may have valuable results in the
worldwide effort in which he must take part
to prevent a future war anywhere.

“There are immediate pressing problems
of great importance on which he will have
to act... There seems to be little time to seize
upon all these situations and fit them into a

--- Page 33 ---
comprehensive, durable American foreign
policy. Yet that is what is required, and the
nation hopes and believes that the great
qualities General Marshall has exhibited for
many years will enable him to accomplish
it... 0

New York Herald Tribune: Problems fac-
ing Marshall “are many; but there is little
question that the greatest of them is still, as
it long has been, the problem of relations
between the democratic United States and
the Soviet Union .. .

“Byrnes has laid a great part of the nec-
essary ground work by. clearly asserting the
American positions, defining the areas from
which we will not retire and the principles
which we cannot yield. But the positive
superstructure is yet to be built.”

St. Louis Globe Democrat: The former
Chief of Staff, though never an officeholder,
is no newcomer to diplomacy. He attended
all the Big Three and Big Four conferences
with Presidents Roosevelt and Truman .. .
he is known personally and favorably to
virtually every top diplomat in allied coun-
tries; he is acquainted with the problems of
China and the Far East as few men are, and
Congress holds him in utmost respect.
Furthermore, his firmness fits the trend of
our foreign policy. With these assets there
is every prospect Marshall can determine
policies based on well-considered facts.”

Bipartisan Foreign Policy

Speeches made by former Secretary of
State Byrnes and Senator Vandenberg at the
Council of World Affairs in Cleveland were
widely discussed in the US press; the gen-
eral reaction to both speeches was favorable.

The New York Times, in an editorial, said:
“The bipartisan unity and high level of
statesmanship that have distinguished Amer-
ican foreign policy during the past year at-
tained a new and fitting expression in the
speeches . . . Secretary Byrnes delivered his
valedictory, in which he not only summed
up his aims and the progress toward their
achievement but also reiterated the funda-
mental principles of our policy toward the

30

world as laid down in greater detail in the
secret folios he has complied for the guidance
of his successor... . Senator Vandenberg
gave the first full-dress statement of his
views since assuming the new responsibilities
of Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, which will have to ratify every
settlement and treaty growing out of the war.

“Secretary Byrnes represents a Democratic
party largely purged of its dissident ap-
peasement element, Senator Vandenberg a
Republican party purged of its past isolation-
ism. Yet, though demonstrating by a dif-
ferent emphasis in individual situations that
theirs is by no means a purely mechanical
or political understanding, their agreement
on fundamentals is so pronounced that to be
appreciated it must be constrasted with the
situation after the first World War. That
agreement, which represents the convictions
of the vast majority of the American people,
is also the rock on which General Marshall
can build in the further conduct of our
foreign policy.”

On the same theme but dealing more specif-
ically with the Vandenberg speech, the
Washington Post said: “What is most en-
couraging about Senator Vandenberg’s speech
is the fact that he did not confine his co-
operative attitude to the political sphere.
‘Peace and economics,’ he said, ‘are insepara-
bly kin. To give our ‘unpartisan foreign
policy’ its best chance for success we must
meet our internation] responsibilities in terms
of financial aid and international trade as
well as in disarmament and joint action
against agressors.

“At least the Foreign Relations chairman
seems to recognize the desirability of ap-
proaching these problems from an ‘unparti-
san’ viewpoint and of fitting our economic
policy into the pattern of international re-
lations already approved by overwhelming
majorities in both parties. That is a net
gain. Adjustments and compromises in work-
ing out the details must be anticipated. Our
hope is that the Republican Congress will be
broadminded enough to follow Mr. Vanden-
berg’s lead in this matter.”

--- Page 34 ---
FOUR-POWER GOVERNMENT (Continued trom page 8)

ing papers to and from the military missions
and of reciprocal entertainment, the super-
vision of all American interpreters and trans-
lators.

What has been the result of this quadri-
partite governmental operation so far?

The value of its work cannot be measured
adequately in quantitative terms, but the
figures are some indication of its successful
activity. In the period from its inauguration
in July of 1945 to the end of 1946 the Allied
Control Authority had approved scores of
papers for mandatory implementation
throughout Germany by Zone Commanders,
some in the form of simple agreements and
some in the form of laws and -directives
having varying degrees of application but in
all cases applying nation-wide.

IMPLEMENTING ACA DIRECTIVES

Laws of the Control Council have man-
datory application throughout Germany and
are legally applicable directly to the German
people and enforceable by both German and
Military Government courts. More frequent-
ly, however, the Allied Control Authority
acts through directives addressed in the
name of the Control Council to the four Zone
Commanders and to the quadripartite gov-
ernment of Berlin, knows as the Komman-
datura. Each Zone Commander must then
issue necessary instructions within his zone
to see that these orders are carried out and
is responsible to the Control Council for
their enforcement. The Allied Kommanda-
tura carries out quadripartite legislation
through the municipal German government
of Berlin. Berlin is divided into four sectors,
one for each occupying power, but the Ger-
man city government has been given a
constitution approved by the Allied Control
Authority and carries out city government
for all four national sectors. In a small way
the Allied Kommandatura is a duplicate of
the Allied Control Authority and operates
with quadripartite committees in a similar

31

manner. Although each of its four senior
representatives is responsible to his own
national element for negotiating instructions,
the quadripartite actions of the Komman-
datura itself can only be directly controlled
and reviewed by the Coordinating Committee
and Control Council of the Allied Control
Authority.

LEGAL BASIS OF LEGISLATION

The legal basis for all Allied Control
Authority legislation is chiefly the Berlin
Protocol, or Potsdam Agreement of the Big
Three, on which France reserved its position.
Among the 43 laws signed by the Control
Council by the end of 1946 — some of them
amending previous enactments — are sub-
jects ranging from “Termination and Liquid-
ation of the Nazi Organizations” to the
“Rationing of Electricity and Gas.” Direc-
tives to the Zone Commanders signed by the
end of 1946 numbered 45 and covered large
and small subjects, from “Principles Cover-
ing the Establishment of Federation of Trade
Unions” to “The Adoption of a Standard
Time throughout Germany”. The scores of
other general policy papers agreed to include
such far-reaching matters as the entire level
of industry plan for Germany, setting spe-

cific levels for specific industries above which

production is not allowed to go.

APPRAISAL OF OPERATION

To the layman, the Allied Control
Authority machinery may seem cumbersome
and slow. Participants seldom deny the
former, but feel that this is inherent in a
legislative body which covers the entire
field of government, operates in three
languages, and must reconcile views based
upon a greater diversity of social and
political backgrounds than is found in most
national parliaments. Most ACA workers
believe, therefore, that-the speed of operation
compares favorably with that of national
legislative bodies throughout the world.

--- Page 35 ---
THE LAND GOVERNMENTS (Continued from Page 13)

The Minister-President does not carry out
his duties unaided, but is assisted by a
state chancellory whose functions are: To
provide professional and technical assistance
to the Minister-President in his executive and
legislative duties, to offer certain business
management functions to the central govern-
ment as a whole, and to perform extraneous
functions which happen to be assigned to it.
The Minister-President’s chief assistant is the
State Secretary, who serves as his executive
assistant and personal representative. He is
responsible for the entire operations of the
Chancellory, except for a personal assistant
for the Minister-President of Hesse and a
small immediate office for the Minister-
President of Bavaria.

In addition to the Chancellory of the
Minister of State, the governments of the
three Laender have seven to nine func-
tional ministries including labor, justice,
finance, economics, and interior. Ministers
are always political officials, whose fortunes
rise and fall with their party, and who
are, theoretically at least, subject to
separation from their offices at any time,
should the cabinet suffer a vote of no-
confidence. It is necessary to provide some
continuity in the administration of a min-

istry, and this element is furnished by the
permanent civil servants.

The managing of the internal affairs
of a ministry is primarily the responsibility
of a State Secretary who serves as acting
minister when the minister is away or dur-
ing lapses between ministers. He often has
additional duties such as liaison with MG, and
in a few cases representation of the ministry
in technical committees of the Laenderrat.

As a whole, the Land governments have
undergone so basic a reorganization since
the occupation that it would be too much
to expect them to have achieved excellence
in organization or efficiency. There are large
areas in which the organization, laws, and
operating practices have carried over from
earlier times, and there is always a tend-
ency to cling to these survivals as elements
of stability. At the same ‘pe there is a
growing tendency particulafly among the
younger officials to question the by-laws,
organizational structure, and adminstrative
habits precisely for the reason that they
have not been questioned for such a long
time. This type of official seems to be shedding
much of the conventional formality of Ger-
man official life and to be adopting a more
democratic approach towards government.

The functions of government which pro-
perly belong to the Land are now handed
over to governments elected by and respon-
sible to the German people. Hereafter, we
shall intervene in Land legislation and ad-
ministration only if necessary to prevent
measures which are inconsistent with our
objectives in Germany. This is in accord
with our stated policy to encourage the
revival of Germany as a democratic and
peace-loving nation through the removal of
obstacles to democracy while concurrently
takign measures which will prevent its
emergence as an aggressive power.

In approving the Land constitutions,

— Message from the DMG to MG personnel, 7 January 1947

Military Government has reserved the
responsibility for uniform legislation pen-
ding the establishment of some form of
national government. While the rights of
the Laender are defined clearly in their
constitutions which provide also for future
ceding of requisite powers to national
government, the exact powers to be thus
ceded have not and cannot be formulated
until the final form of national government
has been determined. Hence, in matters in
which uniformity is desirable throughout
Germany, if possible, and throughout the
United States Zone of Occupation in any
event, Military Government must continue
as the authority for legislation.

¢

--- Page 36 ---
MG POLICIES, REGULATIONS, AND DIRECTIVES (Continued trom page 15)

Title 9 — Public Safety.

Title 10 — Civilian Communications.

Title 11 — Industry.

Title 12 — Food and Agriculture.

Title 13 — Trade and Commerce.

Title 14 — Civilian Transportation.

Title 15 — Manpower.

Title 16 — Finance.

Title 17 —- Property Control

Title 18 —- Monuments, Fine Arts, and
Archives.

Title 19 — Restitutions.

Title 20 — Displaced Persons.

Title 21 — Information Control.

Title 22 -— Reports and Histories.

Title 23 — Military Government
Legislation.

Title 24 — Important German Legis-
lation.

Title 27 — Control of Scientific
Research.

The directive is the most familiar form in
which instructions and implementations of
MG regulations are disseminated throughout
OMGUS Headquarters, to parallel and sub-
ordinate offices, and into the field. The
directive is identical in form and similar in
preparation to the letter, but it is the term
applied to such instructions dealing with the
more important subjects. Cables and mem-
oranda are among other formal methods of
dissemination /of official instructions.

ORIGINATES AS STAFF STUDY

A directive, letter, or other command
channel memorandum issued through MG
channels usually originates with what is
termed a staff study, which is simply the
form used by the US Army General Staff
for the presentation of any complex problem.
It may be requested by the Deputy Military
Governor, may result from a cable from the
War Department in Washington, or may be
initiated as a result of experience and con-
sideration by any OMGUS division or office.

The division concerned generally assigns
one person who is responsible for the matter
to first discuss it with other interested offices

33

or persons in his division and to get the
approval of the division director. He then
initiates a program of coordination in which
he discusses the matter verbally or exchanges
written comments with other divisions,
organizes meetings or working parties; he
may initiate clarifying cables with other
headquarters or with Washington, and may,
if necessary, discuss the matter with appro-
priate representatives of other nationalities.

FORMAL RERORT PREPARED

Finally he prepares a formal report,
known as the staff study, which consists of
an analysis of the problem, a reference to
controlling documents which are attached,
a statement of discussion and coordination
with agencies concerned, and a recommended
line of action, together with the letter or
directive written in the form desired for
dissemination.

The staff study then receives initials
indicating concurrence from other agencies
concerned, or statements of non-concurrence,
if appropriate. The final staff study in
this form is presented to the Staff Secre-
tary’s office which checks it thoroughly,
makes a final review, and dispatches it for
further consultation and coordination by
other authorities if necessary. When coordin-
ated staff action in proper form is assured
by the Staff Secretary, the matter with rec-
ommendation is sent to the Secretary Gen-
eral who, after further review, may approve
it, may direct further study, or may refer
it to the Chief of Staff.

The Chief of Staff, in accordance with
the policy: of the Deputy Military Governor
on the subject, either approves or dis-
approves in his own name. However, in a
matter of major importance, of controversial
nature, or on a policy subject, it is referred
to the Deputy Military Governor or the
Assistant Deputy Military Governor for
final consideration. With approval of either
of them, a directive is issued and, dependent
on its subject and importance, may be signed
by the Deputy Military Governor, the Chief
of Staff, or the Adjutant General.

--- Page 37 ---
MG IN THE FIELD (Continued from Page 19)

subcommittees, and working staffs.

2, To arrange necessary conferences be-
tween US authorities and German officials
of the Laenderrat.

3. To insure that items desired by Military
Government are placed on the agenda for the
consideration and action by the Laenderrat.

4. To foward decisions and proposals of
the Laenderrat to OMGUS for approval, and
transmit to the Laenderrat and to the Land
OMG’s notice of action taken on such de-
cisions and proposals.

5. To assure that approved MG recom-
mendations of the Laenderrat are carried out
uniformly throughout the US Zone, and to
report the results to the Deputy Military
Governor.

6. To distribute committee reports and
other material to the appropriate MG agencies.

LIAISON AND SECURITY OFFICES

The most intimate official contact of any
MG agency with the German populace is
experienced by the Liaison and Security Of-
fices, which are the detachments located in
the cities (Stadtkreise) and counties (Land-
kreise) of the US Zone. No longer operation-
al, the L&SO provides for general super-
vision and reporting on the activities of local
German civil administration, and liaison be-
tween local German authorities and US in-
stallations.

Other responsibilities assigned to the L&SO,
without duplicating the functions of the
Functional Field Teams, include:

1. Detecting, investigating, and reporting
to the Land OMG important non-compliance,
evasions, and failures to report on matters by
the German civil authorities.

2. Performing its duties and at times act-
ing in a manner that justifies its status in the
area as personal ambassadors of the United
States and its Military Government in Ger-
many, and as an example of the democratic
culture, the encouragement of which is one
of the basic purposes of the occupation.

3. Supervising operations of the local Ger-

34.

man denazification machinery for investigat-
ing and deciding upon the political reliability
of persons in, or considered for, important
responsibilities in public, semi-public, and
private organizations, and to keep constant
check on the compliance with the provisions
and the spirit of Control Council and MG
directives on denazification.

4. Conducting investigations pertaining to
public safety in its area for the Land OMG,
other L&SO, and appropriate US and Allied
agencies.

5. Keeping constant check on the com-
pliance of German civil authorities with all
directives pertinent to public safety “and
security, except for detailed inspections
handled by the Functional Field Teams.

6. Approving passes and other exemp-
tions from restrictions which cannot be
handled by German civil authorities.

7. Acting as the MG agent in securing
German manpower for work needed by mil-
itary units in its area.

8. Insuring satisfactory accommodations
for visiting Functional Field Teams and
other authorized MG transits, and supplying
them with available data on local conditions
and with contacts with appropriate German
officials.

9. Preparing the periodic general reports
on local public opinion and political trends
required by higher MG echelons.

While the normal L&SO is to consist of
two officers and US Army enlisted personnel
or US civilian employees as required for nec-
essary administration, there are considerable
differences in size, duties, and administration
of the detachments in the cities and those in
the counties. Dealing with a complex city
government, the Stadtkreis detachment is
larger and more complex while the Land-
kreis detachment, dealing with many small
communities in its area, is restricted to a
small group. There are 246 L&SO’s in the
US Zone, of which 38 serve cities and 208
counties,

Frankfurt, with a current population of

--- Page 38 ---
423,000 and an estimated overall war dam-
age of 55 percent, can be taken as an example
of the functioning of a Stadtkreis detach-
ment. It is an important political, commer-
cial, transportation, and cultural center. It
has extensive industrial, rehabilitation, and
democratizing problems. Its city government
has a chief mayor, an assistant mayor, ten
city councilors, and a city council. The ten
city councilors (Stadtraete) head some 60
departments.

CONTACT WITH CHIEF MAYOR

One of the principal functions of the L&SO
is-to maintain direct contact with the chief
mayor, and through him with the various of-
ficials and departments of the city. The
maintenance of such supervision over the
local government as Military Government
may prescribe must be assured. Inversely,
any German controls which might run counter
to the objectives of Military Government
must be prohibited.

Direct contact with sponsors and officials
of authorized political parties encourages the
development of democratic thought and ac-
tivity. Freedom of religion is fostered by
weekly meetings of the religious leaders of
the community. Cooperation in welfare work
has resulted in a permanent joint association.
The requisition of property, supervision of
property control, encouragement of stricter
denazification, provisions for greater security,
assistance in the repatriation and resettle-
ment of refugees, expellees, and evacuated
persons pose numerous problems for the
Frankfurt detachment.

SPECIAL PROBLEMS CONFRONTED

Because USFET Headquarters is located
in the city, the detachment is confronted by
many problems in addition to those handled
by other city detachments. Liaison must be
maintained with many agencies and individu-
als at USFET in matters of mutual concern,
such as Provest Marshal activities, indige-
nous personnel, public utilities. In the Frank-
furt military community are about 15,000
military persons, 5,600 US and Allied ci-

35

vilians, and 2,000 dependents. There are many
foreign missions and representatives station-
ed in the city. The liaison problems involved
in connection with these are the responsibili-
ties of the L&SO.

In contrast to the Stadtkreis L&SO, the
Landkreis detachment usually has only one
or two officers stationed there long enough
to become acquainted with local conditions.
A few enlisted men are on the staff and the
rest of the activities are delegated to in-
digenous personnel. ‘Within the Landkreis
there may be 30 to 100 small communities,
each with its own community government.
Each county has its county councilor (Land-
rat) and each community its mayor and, al-
though the barrier of different languages is
more pronounced than in the cities, it is
with them that the L&S officer must carry
out his duties.

SOLE MG FIELD REPRESENTATIVE

The L&S officer must spend half of his
time in the field, visiting the communities,
overcoming the antagonism of being the rep-
resentative of an occupying power, helping
to smooth out many local difficulties, and
observing and reporting on the local situa-
tions. Denazification and public safety are
his chief problems. Back at his desk, he has
reports to make, new directives and instruc-
tions to read, inspectors to meet, survey
groups to assist, and scores of other jobs
which crowd into his working time. But he
is the principal, and practically the only,
direct contact of Military Government with
the rural people which comprise a large part
of the population of the US Zone. Once a
week he gets away to the seat of the Land
OMG for the weekly conference of MG field
personnel.

The share taken by the United States in
the government of the City of Berlin is lodged
with the Office of Military Government,
Berlin Sector (US), which, although directly
under the control of the Deputy Military
Governor, is in accordance with the quadri-
partite program of the Allied Kommandatura,
of which the Director of OMGBS is a member.

--- Page 39 ---
THE EXECUTIVE OFFICES (Continued from page 22)

mulating, interpreting, and implementing ci-
vilian personnel policies based on War De-
partment and Theater Regulations for all
MG echelons; establishing the most efficient
types of recruitment and placement programs;
developing and coordinating directives which
implement classification policies and proce-
dures; applying classification standards uni-
formly to all MG positions; determining
change of status, promotions, change to lower
grade, assignments, separations, efficiency
ratings, and related operations; improving
employee morale; developing, implementing,
and publicizing orientation and training
programs at executive, and
trainee levels.

supervisory,

The Military Personnel Branch is re-
sponsible for the military personnel staff
functions of a major command, including
such activities as procurement, assignment,
transfer, and allocation of grades and rat-
ings of military personnel, and the establsh-
ment of policies on classification, reclassifica-
tion, promotion, demotion, discharge, awards,
decorations, citations, leaves, redeployment,
and rotation of officers and enlisted per-
sonnel.

INDIGENOUS PERSONNEL OFFICER

The Indigenous Personnel Officer inter-
prets policies, and develops, publishes, and
coordinates implementing directives affect-
ing employees who are paid from indigenous
funds. Its primary objective is to develop in
each operating agency a balanced personnel
program to include classification, placement,
employee training, employee relations, and
wage administration.

The Office of the Adjutant General is a
special staff organization whose main func-
tion is to. establish and maintain adminis-
trative procedures for OMGUS and _sub-
ordinate headquarters. It exercises no com-
mand function, serving only as an adminis-
trative staff agency.

The Office handles all official command
correspondence for the headquarters, includ-

36

ing its actual preparation. The Office also is
responsible for the authentication and dis-
patch of correspondence prepared in other
offices and divisions of OMGUS. The Ad-
jutant General authenticates all command
instructions and orders, the latter being Gen-
eral or Special Orders concerning military
and US civilian personnel of OMGUS.

Operating under the Adjutant General’s
Office is the AG General Records Branch,
the permanent office of records for OMGUS.
Here all incoming correspondence is opened.
Routing slips are prepared, and the corres-
pondence is forwarded to the office or di-
vision concerned. This branch maintains files
of all correspondence received and sent by
the headquarters. Here also is included Top
Secret Control, which handles all Top Secret
documents and cables.

PUBLISHER FOR OMGUS

The AG Publications Branch is the “pub-
lisher” for OMGUS. It prints, mimeographs,
lithographs, and photostats material for
OMGUS headquarters. It also stocks blank
forms and War Department publications
such as Army Regulations, circulars, field
manuals, and technical manuals.

The AG Cable Control Branch receives, re-
produces, and dispatches all cables coming
into and leaving OMGUS. Here cables are
screened, and important ones are collected
daily to form a book that is circulated among
high OMGUS officials.

The AG Military Personnel Branch handles
the operational phases of all matters con-
cerning officers: their promotion, records,
awards, decorations, and redeployment. Pol-
icies are determined by the Military Per-
sonnel Branch of the Office of the Personnel
Officer.

The Reference Library, also operating
under the Adjutant General’s Office and
located in the Directors Building, OMGUS,
maintains a collection of reference books,
periodicals, and newspapers, in English and
German, to serve the offices and divisions

--- Page 40 ---
of OMGUS. It supplies information by tele-
phone and in person, and circulates those
books not in constant use in the library.

The AG Travel Bureau is responsible for
setting up policies and regulations governing
travel in Germany and in Europe of MG
personnel in accordance with War Depart-
ment and USFET directives. The Orders
Section issues General, Special, and Letter
Orders and handles air and water travel
priorities. The Combined Travel Board con-
trols the entry of all persons into the US
Zone from other countries. Such matters are
dealt with on a tripartite basis with the
British and French. This involves close co-
ordination with the Interzonal Facilities
Bureau of the Allied Control Authority, with
OMGUS divisions, and with American con-
sulates throughout Europe. The Combined
Travel Board has representatives known as
Military Permit Officers in Washington and
in most European countries.

The Political Adviser and the Office of
Political Affairs have responsibility for the
political activities of the United States in
Germany. A large portion of the Office of
Political Affairs staff is foreign service per-
sonnel, from the US Department of State.
They serve with administrative and staff per-
sonnel furnished by OMGUS and the War
Department.

The Political Adviser, a career diplomat
and senior representative in Germany of the
US Department of State, is adviser to the
Military Governor and Deputy Military Gov-
ernor on political and State Department mat-
ters and participates in meetings of the Allied
Control Council and the Coordinating Com-
mittee. Under the present set-up, the State
Department has specific responsibility for the
formulation in Washington of MG policy for
Germany.

The Office of the Director of Political Af-
fairs, actually the Political Adviser’s work-
ing staff, has the following specific respon-
sibilities: In close collaboration with the
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, it is
responsible for policy and programs for the
development and supervision of German

37

political parties. It is also concerned with
the political aspects of denazification policies,
cooperating particularly with the DMG’s
Special Adviser on Denazification, and with
the Public Safety Branch, IA & C Division,
OMGUS. Through its editorial board this
office helps prepare monthly reports by the
Military Governor, advises other offices and
divisions of OMGUS regarding political
problems, assists with political vetting of
Germans before appointment to bizonal or
central German agency positions, and fre-
quently transmits communications between
OMGUS and American diplomatic missions
in other countries.

The consular branch of the Office of Po-
litical Affairs supervises the American Con-
sulates established at Frankfurt, Stuttgart,
Munich, Hamburg, Bremen, and Baden-
Baden. Consular offices issue passports and
immigration visas, and protect property in-
terests of US citizens, often in coordination
with Property Control Branch, Finance Di-
vision, OMGUS.

The Office of Political Affairs constitutes
the American element of the quadripartite
Political Directorate which is establishing
interim offices abroad for German affairs to
perform many functions formerly undertaken
by German Consular establishments, and
perhaps later to assist in the development of
trade between a unified Germany and the
countries in~which~the offices are located.
Through the Political Directorate, the Office
of Political Affairs also has an important
part in the control and administration of re-
lations between the Allied Control Council
and foreign states.

The OPA is responsible for the exploita-
tion of the important archives of the former
German Foreign Office. They contain highly
interesting papers illuminating many secret
objectives and policies of the Nazi regime.
For more than a year a combined British and
American team! has been ¢xamining these
documents. Arrangements have been made
for interested Allied Nations to do likewise.

The Director of Intelligence is responsible
for developing and disseminating intelligence

--- Page 41 ---
information which pertains to the civil gov-
ernment of Germany. ,He is the US rep-
resentative on the Quadripartite Intelligence
Committee. The Office of the Director of In-
telligence has no operating agencies, but
depends on information submitted by Liaison
and Security Detachments of the Land Intel-
ligence Sections and the reports of other
OMGUS offices and divisions. Reports are
prepared at OMGUS level and submitted
weekly to the DMG and staff divisions for
their information and action. The ODI is or-
ganized into three sections: Analysis and
Research, Counter Intelligence, and Civil
Censorship.

The Analysis and Research Section studies
intelligence information and prepares critical
studies with a view to presenting independent
opinions and predictions on MG functions.
This information includes political, economic,
legal, security, and denazification trends as
they affect Military Government.

The Counter Intelligence Section advises
on counter intelligence and security aspects
of MG policy, and serves as a coordinating
agency for all counter intelligence matters
among the occupational powers.

The Civil Censorship Section advises on
policies pertaining to censorship of German
communications and coordinates censorship
matters on a quadripartite level.

The primary function of the Office of
Naval Adviser is to inform the DMG and the
divisions of OMGUS on naval matters. Per-
sonnel of the Office of the Naval Adviser
also represent the United States on the Naval
Committee of the Combined Services Direct-
orate of the Allied Control Council. The
Naval Committee concerns itself with the
disarmament and disbandment of the former
German navy and the prevention of the re-
surgence of German naval war potential.
The Deputy Naval Adviser represents. the
United States on the Board of Directors of
the German Hydrographic Institute.

The division of the ex-German navy was
accomplished by the Tripartite Naval Com-
mission, which was set up by the Potsdam
Protocol and consists of the USSR, UK, and

38

US. The US personnel on this commission
were supplied by the Office of Naval Adviser.
The work of the commission is practically
finished with a total of 1,713 naval vessels,
375 naval harbor servicing craft, and 103
floating dry docks allocated among the three
powers. Of these the United States was al-
located the following: naval vessels 671,
naval harbor servicing craft 98, and floating
dry docks 55.

The office also has served in Berlin in a
liaison capacity for the US element of the
Tripartite Merchant Marine Commission.
The Commission divided up the once great
former German merchant fleet.

The Naval Technical Unit Europe is at-
tached to the Office of the Naval Adviser for
administrative purposes. This unit has been
gathering technical information and equip-
ment throughout Germany and Europe which
might be of value to the Navy Department.

The Director of Public Relations and the
Public Relations Office are responsible for
keeping the public continuously informed on
the newsworthy developments of OMGUS
and MG affairs, for advising OMGUS of-
ficials on Public Relations policies, and for
assisting representatives of the press and
other informational media to contact news
sources. -

The PRO of OMGUS is directly concerned
with affairs involving the United States and
other occupying powers. Its representatives
attend Control Council meetings, Coordinat-
ing Committee meetings, and conferences be-
tween officials of the United States and other
powers in Berlin. In agreement with the
public relations offices of the other powers
concerned, joint communiques are issued to
the press by PRO.

The PRO also:

Coordinates all Public Relations matters
concerning the United States and one or all
of the other occupying powers;

Develops, collects, and prepares informa-
tional material, clears the material on a se-
curity and policy basis, and disseminates it
to the press;

Receives all representatives of informa-

--- Page 42 ---
tional media, local and international, and as-
sists them in obtaining desired material deal-
ing with OMGUS or quadripartite matters;

Arranges interviews and briefings with
those. OMGUS officials who have the best
available factual knowledge of a particular
situation of interest to the press;

Arranges press conferences for the Theater
Commander, Deputy Military Governor, and
visiting dignitaries;

Conducts tours for British, Soviet, and
French correspondents into the US Zone,
and arranges tours for US news corres-
pondents into the British, Soviet, and French
Zones;

Holds weekly meetings with division
PRO’s for discussing newsworthy events and
public relations problems, and for planning
the dissemination of information.

FIELD OF JURISDICTION
PRO OMGUS is available to all field PRO’s

in Germany for advice and assistance in
their local activities, but concerning material
of full MG or inter-Allied nature it exercises
complete jurisdiction. Releases of the latter
type are teletyped to Berlin, cleared with the
proper officials, and released simultaneously
in Berlin, Frankfurt, and the originating
point.

Members of the press and other informa-
tion media may visit or obtain information
from any person in OMGUS without clear-
ing through PRO, but the PRO staff members
are available at all times to assist corres-
pondents in going to news sources, When
any MG person is contacted directly by the
press, it is the responsibility of that official
to use his own judgment as to what material
can be released, and what material must be
withheld because it is classified, would violate
security, or would materially injure relation-
ships with the Allies,

The present function of Field Information
Agency, Technical, better known as FIAT
(US), is to continue its mission of collecting
and compiling scientific and technical infor-
mation in Germany. This information is to
include scientific, industrial, and technologic-

39

aI processes; inventions, methods, devices,
and improvements uncovered in Germany
and of value to science and industry in the
United States or to any of the Allies.

Although FIAT (Main) is now located in
Karlsruhe, operationally it is responsible to
the Chief of Staff, OMGUS. Its Berlin office
represents FIAT’s function in the Berlin
area, and at the same time maintains liaison
with OMGUS divisions, offices, and rep-
resentatives.

The task of collecting and compiling. this,
vast amount of technical data is divided into
three main groups: investigator reports,
screening and microfilming project, and
“FIAT Review of Science in Germany
1939-46.” FIAT’s final reports, sent to the
Publications Board Program, US Department
of Commerce, are based on information
procured by highly specialized fieldmen
known as FIAT investigators. Thousands of
feet of microfilms of technical documents,
drawings, and descriptions found in Germany
have been processed by combined teams of
document analysts called “screeners” and
microfilmers. The majority of the FIAT in-
vestigators and document analysts are Com-
merce Department employees who are on
loan to the US Government from private in-
dustry.

The FIAT Review is a combined effort of
the American, French, and British FIAT’s to
edit information on fundamental scientific re-
search in the natural sciences which had not
been published during the war. Through the
cooperation of some 800 German scientists,
papers are being written on medicine, physics,
metallurgy, chemistry, mathematics, biology,
and geography. It is estimated that a com-
prehensive summary can be contained in ap-
proximately 50 volumes of about 200 pages
each.

FIAT is scheduled to complete its opera-
tions about 1 July 1947.

The “housekeeping” operations of OMGUS
are handled by Berlin Command, which is in
charge of troop command, security, supply,
and administrative support for the US ele-
ments in Berlin.

--- Page 43 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR ;
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (Us)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co 4

*S-10 SK Stuttgart
*S-21 LK Boeblingen
*S-23 LK Esslingen
*S-29 LK Ludwigsburg
*S-30 LK Waiblingen
*S-50 LK. Backnang
*S-53 LK Leonberg
*$-55 LK Nuertingen
*S-58 LK Vaihingen

*M-43 SK/LK Heidelberg
*M-16 SK/LK Mannheim
*M-89 LK Buchen :
*M-90 LK Mosbach ~
*M-91 LK Tauberbischofsheim
*M-92 LK Sinsheim

Rit

4K-47 SK/LK Karlsruhe
#K-46 SK/LK Pforzheim
*K-87 LK. Bruchsal

*H-28 SK/LK Heilbronn
*H-22 LK Crailsheim

*H-26 LK Schwaebisch Hall
*H-52. LK Kuenzelsau-
*H-54 LK Mergentheim
*H-56 LK Oehringen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154)

Stuttgart
_ Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area
Stuttg: i
Boeblingen
Esslingen
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang

- Leonberg
-Nuertingen
_ Vaihingen

Heidelberg Area

Heidelberg

Mannheim

Buchen

Mosbach ‘
Tauberbischofsheim _

Sinsheim_

Rararahe Area
Karlsruhe |

Pforzheim
Brachsal

’ Heilbronn Area

Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schwaebisch Hall
Kuenzelsau

Bad Mergentheim
Oehringen

40-

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay, _
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen F A Keating
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Mr Sumner Sewal!

Lt Col M O Edwards
Ist Lt J B Clifford

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst -
Capt N Semaschko
Capt E E Oja
Maj F A Hubbard
_ Capt R Forrest
Capt S P Giunta
Maj J F Capell
Capt A Smith

Lt Col C L Jackson
Lt Col C H Rue
Capt C A Wright
Capt I D Claxton
Capt N W Barber
Capt J E Switzer

Lt Col W T Burt
Maj R H Stimson
- Capt T C Stenson

Lt Col © H West
Ast Lt R E Alley
Capt C S Keena
Capt T E Griswold:
Capt B V Bloom
Capt G H Caple

--- Page 44 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

» DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*U-25 LK Goeppingen

*U-11 SK/LK Ulm

*U-20 LK Aalen

*U-24 LK Schwaebisch Gmuend
*U-27 LK Heidenheim

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Huenfeld
*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg

- *LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Buedingen

* Liaison and Security

Goeppingen Area

Goeppingen

Ulm

Aalen

Schwaebisch. Gmuend
Heidenheim

LAND GREATER HESSE

Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel,

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Ruedesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

ae
lelsungen
Fritzl fe
Ziegenhain.
Merburg
Fulda
Huenfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Buedingen

41

Lt Col A G Spitz

Maj M L Hoover

Maj C H Pallette
Maj R Lascoe

Maj L H Kyle

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Ist Lt J E Walker
Capt B A Sturdevan

Maj G C Sola

Col F H Boucher
Maj D Easterday
Maj B L Bassinger
Capt C D Bexy
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj R A Gish

Lt Col M A Meacham
Capt P H Olson
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt J Nottingham
Capt J N Francis
Maj M E Chotas
Capt O Howard

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Maj J Connelly
Capt T W Harris
Lt Col C H Reed
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt H L Edberg
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E E Covell
Maj H Baymor
Capt S Kershaw
Capt L R Allen
Capt S A Karas

Lt Col A Skarry
Capt N C Neider
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj A Gill

Maj L H Brown
Capt G P Johnson

--- Page 45 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq & Sv Company

Co A

*A-210 SK/LK Wurzbur,
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen

*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Bruckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemunden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*a-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt

*A-339 LK Konigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont’d)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich
3rd Mil Gov Begt

(APO 170)

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Saale
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C R Russe
Capt C R Argo
Maj P E Perry

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Maj R M Schwartz

Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col Robert Herbison
Lt Col M W Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R C Jernigin
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Maj RC Gesell
Capt G G Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt V R Hurst
Maj R J Holmes
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt S E Witty
Capt L K Owens
Capt T F Griffin
Maj A C McIntyre
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt L D Jaeger
Capt J A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nurnberg
*B-222 SK/LK Bamber;
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreut
*B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 Neustadt & Coburg
*B-226 Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Furth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
SK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamber,
Bayreutl
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz

42

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J C Barnet
Lt Col S M Guild

Lt Col F Robie

Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund

Maj H L Woodall

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott

Maj F W Crimp
Maj C T King
Capt H V Moore
Maj F Meszar

Capt H C Stamatis

--- Page 46 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*B-256 LK Munchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuhl
*B-262 LK Eichstatt
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf

*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila

*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Munchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Herzbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Maj RC Anderson
Capt W _W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H Zurn

Maj A S Adams
Capt R T Towle
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Maj C W Collier
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj F C Smith
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
Maj F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D

*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg

*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
a. d. Wald

*D-243 SK/LK Passau

*D-244 SK/LK Amberg

*D-245 SK/LK Landshut

*D-246 SK/LK Straubing

*D-274 LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach

*D-301 LK Deggendorf

*D-302 LK Eggenfelden

*D-303 LK Grafenau

*D-304 LK Kehlheim

*D-305 LK Landau a. d. Isar

*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen

*D-307 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen

*D-309 LK Vilsiburg

*D-310 LK Wolfstein

*D-349 LK Kemnath

*D-350 LK Nabburg

*D-351 LK Oberviechtach

*D-352 LK Riedenberg

*D-352 LK Vohenstrauss

*D-353 LK Roding

*D-354 LK Waldmuenchen

*D-355 LK Beilngries

*D-356 LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.

*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

*D-375 LK Bogen

*D-377 LK Dingolfing

*D-378 LK Griesbach

*D-379 LK Kotzting

*D-380 LK Mainburg

*D-381 LK Mallersdorf

*D-382 LK Rottenburg

*D-383 LK Viechtach

*D-385 LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kehlheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
jrilsiburg
reyun;
Kenath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

43

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj R E Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek

Lt Col J R Hector
Capt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Crowley
Maj E O Carlson
Capt L R Mariels
Maj G E Griffin
Maj R O Woodward
Maj H A_ Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt A J Harwood
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickham
Capt N Ugland

Lt Col G M Foster
Maj R B Swatash
1st Lt G L Thomas
Capt R N McWhorter
Maj D L O’Roark
Maj I G Shackelford
Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Maj B B Coullahan
Maj L P Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj E Fichter

Capt A G Albert
Maj T R Coykendall
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson Jr
Capt C G Dansby
Maj J J Maher Jr
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones

Maj R E Levy

Maj J F Rey

1st Lt K L Miller Jr

--- Page 47 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E
*E-213 SK/LK Munich
¥*E-231 SK/LK Freising
*E-232 LK Miesbach
*E-233 LK Traunstein
*E-234 LK Altoetting
*E-235 SK/LK Rosenheim
*E-236 LK Garmisch-
Partenkirchen
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt
*E-280 LK Erding
*E-281 LK Laufen
*E-282 LK Muhldorf
*E-283 LK Wasserburg
*h:-284 LK Toelz
*E-285 LK Aibling
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*E-287 LK Lansdberg
¥E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 LK Starnberg
*E-290 LK Weilheim
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden
*E-361 LK Ebersberg
*E-362 LK Aichach
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
¥*E-367 Dachau
*E-368 Schongau

Co G

*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg
*G-239 LK Dillingen
*G-240 LK Neu Ulm
*G-241 LK Sonthofen
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth
*G-293 LK Gunzber;
*G-204 LK Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 LK Memmingen
*G-296 LK Mindeleheim
*G-297 LK Neuberg
*G-298 LK Nordlingen
*G-299 LK Fussen

*G-300 LK Krumbach
*G-369 LK Illertissen
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren
*G-372 LK Wertingen
*G-373 LK Friedberg
*G-374 LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen
Wesermuende Detachment

Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Garmisch

Ingolstadt -
Eraing

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz
Aibling
Fuerstenefeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen

Neu Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwoerth
Gunzber;
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

LAND BREMEN
(APO 751)

Bremen
‘Wesermuende

BERLIN SECTOR
(APO 742-A)

Berlin

44

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col J H Kelly

Lt Col John H Huckins
Capt W A Forys

Capt V L Thom

Capt C A Larimer

Maj Kenneth B Cassidy
Lt Col R T Shelby

Lt Col J A Crewe
Maj C A Brown
Capt C J Wardle
Maj J J Posten
Capt D Root

Maj A O Froede
Capt S J Kushner
Ist Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein
Maj H E Reed
Maj C E Carlsen
Capt M J Groves
Capt J L Ott

Maj W W Perham
Capt E J Pennetto
Maj E J Newmayer
Capt H J Bierman
Ist Lt J A Walker
Capt E E Bird

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R J Paul

Maj H E Howlett
Maj J E Rhea

Maj R E Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Maj M G Norum
Capt S D Lubin

Ist Lt E C Tare
Capt L A Proper
Maj H M Sebastian
Maj B Peshmalyan
Capt J N Urtes

Capt H V Worthington
Capt F W Guzak
Maj S H Darragh
Capt J S Woodwart
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Mr T F Dunn
Lt Col L S Diggs

Col F L Howley