--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG

LAUTERBACH.
OBER &
LAHNKREIS
es FRIED BERG
os QBERTAUNUS|

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAL
HEILBRONN

\
LEONBER' ee
BOBLINGEN Frases|

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NEDRMA N

Germany (Terntory under A\\ved Gceupation, 19

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Attendance of Civilians at Information and Education Command Schools

Reduction of Installation and Facilities in the European Theater .

Project Reunion .

Enemy Motion Picture Films .

Interzonal Travel of German Civilians

Revision of Amendment of Military Government Regulations .

Salvage of Publications

Mailing of Parcels

Disposition of Records .

Reorganization of Military Government for Control of German Civil

Communications and Posts

Control Council Law No. 41, Amending Law No. 26 (Tax on Tobacco)

Transfer of Captured Enemy Material to OMGUS.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .

AG 352 GCT-AGO
7 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 600.9 GDS-AGO
7 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 230 RYT-AGO
11 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 413.53 GBI-AGO

12 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 014,331 (IA)
13 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 0106 (MD)
14 Dee 1946, OMGUS

AG 461 GCT-AGO
14 Dec 1946, USFFT

AG 311.11 (AG)
16 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 313.1 (AG)
17 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.1 (IA)
18 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (FD)
18 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 386.3 (ED)
20 Dec 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.1 (SG)
23 Dec 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
“N Photo by Byers

LESSON IN DEMOCRACY — The Frankfurt
liaison Office of German Youth Activities
recently sponsored a speech on American
law by a US civilian. Following the speech
the audience, composed primarily of German
youth, broke up into discussion groups. The
picture on this week's cover shows one of these
discussion groups being led by an American
soldier

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

1946-1947 Civil Administration was
writien by Dr. Roger H. Wells, Advisor fo the
Director, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS.
De. Wells was head of the Department of Po-
litical Science at Bryn Mawr University before
joining OMGUS.

The rebuilding of Germany's export markets,
ihe progress of internal trade, and the measures
taken to control prices are reviewed in 1946-
1947 Trade and Commerce. The article
was. prepared by the Trade and Commerce
Branch, Economies Division, OMGUS.

The Food and Agriculture Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS, prepared 1946-1947
Food and Agriculture. It describes the efforts
which Military Government and German civilian
authorities made in1946 to maximize agriculture
in the US Zone and the proposed plan for
increasing production during 1947.

Material for 1946-1947 Industry was
lurnished by ine lodeabe Branca: Ecanosilcs
Division, OMGUS. The article presents a review
of the progress of US Zone industry during
he past year.

THIS WEEK

PAGE
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS 2
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
1946-1947 Civil Administration a
1946 —1947 Industry 6
1946-1947 Food and Agriculture 8
1946-1947 Trade and Commerce 10
Review of 1946 12
Occupation Progress Reviewed ih)
GENERAL 19
GERMAN REACTIONS 22
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS 24
STATION LIST 44

There was no issue of the Weekly Information Bulletin for
30 December 1946 due to the Christmas and New Year's holidays.

--- Page 7 ---
oiP adios

he restoration of democratic self-govern-

ment at municipal, county, and state
levels was completed in the US Zone by the
end of the 1946, climaxing some 18 months
of instigating democratic procedures in Ger-
many. The process involved both legislation
and elections. In the fall of 1945, new mu-
nicipal government codes (Gemeindeordnun-
gen) were drafted by the German Land
governments and approved by Military Gov-
ernment. In February 1946, county govern-
ment codes (Kreisordnungen) were similarly
put into effect. Under these codes, represen-
tative councils were elected — the municipal

A view of the assembly which drafted a
new constitution for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Atipn

(Gemeinde) councils in January, the councils
of the rural counties (Landkreise) in April,
and the councils of the larger cities (Stadt-
kreise) in May. (A Stadtkreis is a city which
is at the same time a county. In general, all
cities with more than 20,000 inhabitants are
Stadtkreise or city-counties). These munici-
pal and county councils in:turn elected their
principal executive officers such as Buerger-
meister or Oberbuergerméister inthe case of ©
Gemeinden and Stadtkreise, and Laendrat in
the case of Landkreise. ae
The restoration: of democratic state (Land)
governments was a more complicated matter.’ °

_ Signal Corps’ Photo”

--- Page 8 ---
German civilians registering for
municipal elections in Munich.

The state governments of Bavaria, Greater
Hesse, and Wuerttemberg-Baden which were
set up in 1945 rested solely on the fiat of
Military Government which appointed each
Land minister-president and his cabinet. In
January 1946, a representative element was
added in the form of.an advisory legislative
body chosen by the minister-president and
representing political parties and other
groups.

ADOPTION OF CONSTITUTIONS

Prior to 1933, the German states, like those
of the United States, had their own consti-
tutions. In a directive issued in February
1946, Military Government outlined the steps

to be taken in rebuilding the constitutional |

foundations of the states of the US: Zone.
Pursuant to that directive, the ministers-pres-
ident appointed preparatory constitutional
commissions to gather materials and make

studies and proposals for the use of consti-

tutional conventions. On 30 June; consti-
tutional conventions were elected in Bavaria,
Greater Hesse, and. Wuerttemberg-Baden
which drafied constitutions and submitted
them to Military Government for review in
late September and early October. The con-
stitutions were likewise reviewed by the War
and State Departments in Washington. A few
changes were suggested by Military Govern-
ment and by Washington, and these changes
were incorporated in the constitutions as
finally passed_by. the conventions at the end
of October. On 24 November in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and on 1 December in Bavaria
and Hesse, the voters ratified the constitutions
and at the same time elected the state legis-
latures (Landtage). The legislatures convened
in December and elected the ministers-presi-
—@ent and their cabinets. Thus was inaugu-
“crated, for the first time since 1933, demo-

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 9 ---
ermany had risen during 1946 from
' approximately 24 percent of capacity in.
January to 44 percent of capacity as of 30
November. At the. end of 1946 there were
- products for export, chemical fertilizers from
German plants were augmenting the pro-
duction of much-needed food, coal production
had risen, building materials were being
turned out, and ‘the. availability of gas,
“electricity, and petroleum products had
‘increased considerably, Simultaneously
hundreds of German industrial plants classed
as war potential: were being eliminated, and
ther plants were being evaluated for repara-
tions purposes. A further upswing of industry
~ im 1947 is largely dependent upon an increas-
ing output of coal.

COAL PRODUCTION INCREASED

Lack of proper food, loss of supervisory
personnel through denazification, shortage of
mine supplies, and adverse conditions under-
ground caused a decline in coal production
last spring and summer. These problems had
been solved or reduced by fall, and under
better working conditions and with more
incentive, miners in the US Zone in October
turned out 115,427 tons of hard coal and
340,477 tons of brown coal, or about 93 per-
cent of designated capacity.

In the machinery and optics fields, produc-

A laborer firing an oven at the Rosen-
thal porcelain factory in Selb, Bavaria.

--- Page 10 ---
tion” increased appreciably during 1946.
Camera production in the US Zone rose from
4,000 units in March 1946 to 15,000 units in
October. Radio receiving sets increased from
23 in March to 759 in October. An ap-
preciably larger number of radios were
partially assembled in October, but lack of
necessary tubes prevented complete assembly.

The automotive industry is at present pro-
ducing no passenger cars because of the
critical need for trucks. From 1 to 23
October, the Opel plant built 625 1%-ton
trucks, Daimler Benz turned out 250 of the
same type, and M.A.N. at Nuremberg pro-
duced 26 heavy Diesel trucks. Quadripartite
attention is currently being focused on pro-
viding an adequate future supply of auto-
motive replacement parts and assemblies. In
the US Zone particular attention is being
given to planning production of automotive
spare parts for export.

CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

All building materials have shown definite
increases in production, made possible by the
channeling of adequate coal by, German
economic agencies into a field which must
meet one of the country’s most immediate
needs. German authorities in the US Zone
are currently working out a system for con-
trolling and licensing construction, to be put
into effect in 1947, together with a general
building and construction program being
formed by the Laenderrat. A limited number
of pre-fabricated houses are expected to be
available to ease the housing problem in
1947.

Building materials continue to be an im-
portant item in the export program for the
US Zone. The export of lumber to the United
Kingdom will continue into 1947, but on the
expiration of existing commitments it is
planned to reduce exports of raw lumber,
and instead convert it into articles on which
more labor will have been expended and for
which greater export prices can be obtained.

At the beginning of 1946 paper production

(Continued on page 29)
A worker at Berlin’s Lorenz radio plant

assembling communications equipment.
Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 11 ---
he food situation in Germany remained

acute during 1946. A satisfactory ration
could not be maintained in the US Zone
because of insufficient indigenous production
of food. The possibilities of obtaining any
large-scale food imports from other countries
were definitely limited. To add to the prob-
lem, the population of the Zone had increas-
ed considerably over the prewar figure. It
was clear that the three Laender could not
produce enough food to meet the minimum
requirements of the US Zone.

To meet this situation the Laenderrat

View of the Berlin railroad yard showing the unloading ot a large ship-
ment of potatoes for distribution by the German central food office.

proposed the 1946-47 agricultural plan
which was subsequently approved by OM-
GUS. The basic goal of the plan is to obtain
maximum agricultural output for the con-
sumption of the German people.

To understand the problems involved in
rebuilding an indigenous food program in
Germany, it must be realized that at the end
of the Nazi regime agricultural production
had been in a critical condition. Crop yields
per hectare and total cultivated area had
decreased greatly during the war. Even
before the war, indigenous production in

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 12 ---
ee

ath is now Ge US Zone was not sufficient
to meet ration requirements and was de-
pendent on other zones of Germany and
imports from countries outside Germany.

In the US Zone crop land had decreased
by about nine percent between 1937 and
1945, and the 1945 production of such basic
food crops as grains, potatoes, and sugar
beets was substantially below the prewar
level, with output decreases varying from
27 percent in the case of potatoes, to 56 per-
cent for sugar beets.

te

PROVISIONS OF PLAN OUTLINED

Under the provisions of the 1946-47 plan,
a high calorie content in the food to be
produced will have priority over a variety of
diet, with areas for the production of grains
and potatoes on the priority list for ex-
tension. A person consuming these items
directly receives four to eight times more
energy than is the case if he feeds the grains
and potatoes to animals and eats the animals.
The plan calls for a substantial increase in
areas devoted to the cultivation of sugar
beets because, when converted into sugar,
they yield a very high number of calories per
hectare. Areas devoted to the production of
vegetable oil crops will also be expanded,
Since imports of low cost fats and vegetable
oils are not available.

The expansion of these areas is made pos-
sible in two ways: first, through contraction
of land used in the production of fodder in
1945-46; and second, through the use of land
which was cultivated in prewar years but
remained unused during the war or was used
for non-agricultural purposes.

Along with the decrease in land allotted
to fodder production and the planned re-
duction in meadow and pasture area, the
1946-47 plan calls for a substantial decrease
in the number of cattle, hogs, and sheep.
Specifically, the number of cattle at the end
of 1947 is to be 10 percent below the number
registered as of 3 December 1945. One con-
tributing reason for this decision was the
lack of sufficient fodder to maintain present
numbers of livestock. Some of the “extra”
cows will be slaughtered to increase the meat
ration and the remainder will be exchanged
for food from other zones. In relation to the
policy of obtaining the maximum calorie
content in foods, these exchanges have been
profitable in the past. For example, in a
recent exchange of cattle for sugar with the
Soviet Zone, the US Zone received 20 times
as many calories as they gave.

For similar reasons, the plan calls for a
drastic reduction in the number of hogs dur-
ing the 1946-47 year. Hogs are consumers of
potatoes and grains which are needed for

(Continued on page 28)

German farmers using outmoded e-
quipment plow a field near Hamburg.

--- Page 13 ---
A: 1946 ended, trade and commerce had
begun to assume their places as essential
factors in making Germany’s economic wheels
turn toward peaceful ends. There was a def-
inite indication of greater progress in 1947:
the bizonal economic merger of the US and
British Zones had been inaugurated; quadri-
partite working parties had reached agree-
ment on a number of the internal problems
encountered in interzonal trade and ration-
ing; stringent price controls had success-
fully prevented run-away inflation despite

Photographic equipment on display at the export
exhibition which is currently being held in Munich.

too much money and too little goods; and
exports of German products were being
bought by foreign countries at an increasing
rate.

Contracts for exports for the US Zone of
Germany, valued at approximately 26,000,000
dollars, had been concluded by the Export-
Import Section of OMGUS by the end of
November 1946. Foreign trade discussions
with representatives of other governments
have been numerous during the past several
months. Conferences have been held with

--- Page 14 ---
A ,

representatives of Holland,. Switzerland,
Czechoslovakia, Sweden, Austria, Belgium,
and Luxembourg. In many of these countries
bank accounts for use in export-import trans-
actions have already been opened or are
being opened. Arrangements have been made
for visits by foreign businessmen to Germany
and for German representatives to neigh-
boring countries, all in the interest of foreign
trade.

The entire program for export of US Zone
products has been under direct control of
OMGUS, but in the future German business-
men will be permitted to enter into non-
transactional correspondence with foreign
firms, thus making preliminary negotiations
a direct matter between buyer and seller.

As a means of stimulating interest in par-
ticular goods available for export, successful
sample expositions were held at Munich,
Stuttgart, Wiesbaden, and New York City,
which served to demonstrate the wide range
of skills available, from simple handicraft
to the production of high precision instru-
ments, and to set the direction of future pro-
ductive effort.

From the beginning of consideration of the

11

Germans purchasing items at one of the sales
stands of a badly-damaged market in Berlin.

export-import question, quadripartite policy
placed the emphasis on rebuilding the so-
called light industries, such as textiles, paper,
pharmaceuticals, optical instruments, and
toys. It was felt that if these industries suc-
ceeded in recovering their traditional pro-
gressiveness in technical matters, they would
be able to furnish the means to pay for im-
ports of food and raw materials.

BIZONAL ECONOMIC ACCORD

It has been a basic tenet of US policy since
the beginning of the occupation that foreign
trade should be developed as one element in
the economic life of Germany as a whole.
The pertinent clause in the Potsdam Agree-
ment states: “During the period of occupa-
tion Germany shall be treated as a single
economic unit. To this end common policies
shall be established in regard to import and
export programs of Germany as a whole.”
Until the latter part of 1946 little was done
toward making the economic unity of Ger-
many a fact. On 3 December the joint Anglo-
American agreement providing for the “full
economic integration” of the US and British
Zones of Germany was signed in Washington,

(Continued on page 31)

--- Page 15 ---
Review of,

he progress of Military Government in

Germany is clearly illustrated by the day-
to-day, week-to-week, and month-to-month
situations and developments in the US-
occupied areas. A review of the past year,
as compiled from official MG reports, is
presented here.

JANUARY

Total of 1,534,439 pupils enrolled in
schools in US Zone, 213,415 of 6 to 14 years
not yet in school.

Eleven general unions and 23 trade or
industrial unions with 40,000 members in

The 23 defendants at the first session of Military Tribunal
No. 1 which convened in Nuremberg, 21 November.

Greater Hesse; 22 general unions and 15
trade or industrial unions with 122,000 mem-
bers in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Ninty-three percent of main line trackage
in Zone in operation.

Allied Control Council decides production
capacity of steel industry left in Germany
should be 7,500,000 ingot tons, allowable
production of steel not to exceed 5,800,000
ingot tons in any future year.

Coordinating Council signs Order No. 2
for confiscation and surrender of arms and
ammunition to enfore disarmament of the

--- Page 16 ---
population and to contribute to public
security.

Arming of German civil police with
weapons of non-German manufacture author-
ized. The supply is sufficient for 74 percent
of civil police in the Zone.

First engineering college authorized to
reopen at Darmstadt.

The denazification of the German water-
ways agencies 100 percent complete in the
Rhine and Danube divisions.

Forty-five thousand tons of surplus US
Army food released for displaced persons
and German hospitals.

Restrictions on withdrawal of cash on
unblocked accounts lifted in most of Zone
as bank deposits continue to exceed with-
drawals.

Survey shows the majority of Germans
favor religious education in the schools and
are satisfied with the present school system.

In the first step taken for the return of
self-government in all of Germany, Gemeinde
elections held in communities of less than
20,000 population. Of the eligible voters,

13

BS
t

es -
Secretary 6f State Jarhes F. Byrnes during his address on US
policy in Germany which was delivered 6 September in Stuttgart.

83 percent went to the polls, divided in the
final tabulation: Christian Democratic Union
35.6 percent, Social Democrats 24 percent,
Communists three percent, Liberal Democrats
two percent, non-partisans and small parties,
30 percent.

Up to 15 January, 1,194,000 Fragebogen,
except under Regulation No. 8, received by
Special Branch units with 987,000 processed.
Twenty-three percent of those for employees
in public office are in “non-employment
mandatory” category, of which three percent
are still retained or employed.

Regalia of the Holy Roman Empire re-
turned to Vienna.

FEBRUARY

A repert on the 349 movie theaters opera-
ting indicate the theaters are filled to capa-
city, the audiences tense and sober with a
general feeling of regret and sorrow but
little sense of responsibility.

Revised estimates of indigenous food
available for non-self suppliers show in-
creases over earlier compilations in bread-
grains, potatoes, fats, and milk due to better

--- Page 17 ---
ration control. ®

Minimum civilian requirements for heating
stoves and agricultural shovels being met,
but output of other necessary items includ-
ing milk cans and many agricultural hand-
tools, varies from 50 percent to less than
20 percent of minimum requirements.

All faculties of the University of Frank-
furt open.

Denazification policy fully enforced on
German railroad system in Zone. Within
seven days general operating condition is
fairly normal.

Interzonal trade discussed at the first
meeting of ministers-president of US Zone
with oberpresidents of two provinces of the
British Zone.

Sweeping reform of the traditional Ger-
man bureaucratic civil service ordered in the
drafting of a new civil service code.

US-operated Drahtfunk (wired
broadcasts) inaugurated in the US Sector of
Berlin.

Total sugar processed from beets grown in
the US Zone 1945-46 season is 37,600 tons,
six percent less than original estimates.

radio

Second emergency teacher training in-
stitute approved at Treysa, Greater Hesse,

with 140 students attending three-month
course.

Twenty-two German films for children
released for special matinee performances.

Working price policy for four zones is
that prices on most commodities will be
maintained at preoccupation level and that
price adjustment increases will not be
granted to the extent that a resulting
adjustment in the general level of wages
must be made. Where subsidies have been
withdrawn or taxes increased, increase in
cost of production is proved, and when
actual losses occur on the aggregate of pro-
ducts over a reasonable period, an increase
will be allowed to yield bare minimum pro-
fit appropriate to the scale of output.

Munich selected by Laenderrat committee
as the location for the Senior Directorate
of Communications and Posts in the Zone.

Civilian meat consumption is 10 percent
pork and 90 percent beef as compared with
the prewar consumption of 70 percent pork,
25 percent beef, and five percent sheep and
poultry.

Housing survey shows the number of oc-
cupants per room rose from 1.1 in 1939 to
1.6 at present.

Shortage of small denomination notes

German workers are shown un-
loading the first shipment of CARE
relief packages to arrive in Berlin.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 18 ---
and subsidiary coins results in use of forms
of “emergency” money by retail establish-
ments in Munich.

Allowable time basis for depreciation of
industrial capital equipment of plants to be
appraised for reparations agreed to be equi-

‘valent to 80 percent of standard US Gov-
ernment tax depreciation rates.

Control of scabies hampered by shortages
of soap, scabeticides, and lack of bath
facilities.

Interzonal telephone service between the
Soviet Zone and the US, British, and French
Zones inaugurated.

Trustees appointed for coal syndicates to
eliminate direct trade between the syndicates
and consumers, and to separate capital
connection between mine owners and syn-
dicates.

Allied Control Council signs Law No. 16,
deleting all Nazi provisions from the mar-
riage law.

To reduce the infant mortality rate, the
ration for expectant and nursing mothers
increased in sugar, proteins, and starch.

Brig. Gen. Robert A. McClure, Director of Information Control, OMGUS, presenting
a license to DANA, German news agency, at licensing ceremonies in Bad Nauheim.

MG takes over all of port of Bremen and
most of shipping facilities at Nordenham
and Brake.

German Central Committee organized to
be responsible for allocation of welfare
supplies to be imported from the United
States.

United Nations displaced persons in camps
total 322,000, ex-enemy DP’s to be re-
patriated 68,700, persons repatriated in
February 15,800.

As of 21 February, 15,418 properties
valued at RM 2,543,900,000 under Property
Control custody.

MARCH

Preparatory Constitutional Commissions
appointed by ministers-president for each of
three Laender in Zone.

Directive issued authorizing political par-
ties to operate on zonal basis upon OMGUS
approval of application to establish zonal
headquarters, and to engage in political ac-
tivity anywhere in Zone.

First joint economic discussions by Ger-
man officials of US and British Zones
emphasize need of permanent liaison between

--- Page 19 ---
top German economics organizations of both
zones, stimulation of interzonal trade, enforce-
ment of price controls, and maximizing of
coal and allowable steel production.

Farm cooperatives freed from Nazi legal
and administrative restrictions and restored
to the basis of operation prevailing in dem-
ocratic countries.

Ten thousand tons of raw cotton to be
imported from US for production of needed
items such as grain sacks and work clothing.

Labor registration figures show 3,165,000
persons registered in Bavaria, 1,338,000 in
Greater Hesse, 1,358,000 in ‘Wuerttemberg-
Baden. Of these 946,000 are unemployed.

Annual trade up to RM 2,000,000 agreed
by German economics officials of the US
and Soviet Zones.

Tuberculosis shows a slight but steady
increase.

The German Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism issued.

Newly organized German border police
augmenting tactical troops operating on all
borders of the Zone.

The following order of priority in hiring
set by the Coordinating Committee: victims
of Nazism, active resistants, and persons

German workers vote in the first shop steward
elections to be held in Berlin factories since 1933.

Signal Corps Photo

who have never been Nazi Party or sub-
sidiary organization members, J

Approval given Bavarian proposal that
pupils of former Nazi schools be admitted
under special conditions to approved secon-
dary schools to continue studies under cir-
cumstances favoring intellectual reorienta-
tion.

Having learned that declarations of
possession of looted property are to be
required, some Germans begin to report
property not yet claimed by any Allied
nation.

Typhus in the Zone is only one-half of
the rate for Germany in the same period
in 1943 despite favorable transmission
factors.

ODIC survey reveals half of families have
radios and listen an average of two hours
daily. Sixty-three percent hear “Voice of
America” programs originating in New
York.

Release of 12,500 US Army vehicles to
German civilian economy authorized.

German premiere of Howard Hanson’s
Third Symphony presented in Wiesbaden.
Reestablishment of Bavarian Teachers
Association approved. Fourteen percent of

(Continued on page 34)

--- Page 20 ---
Occupation Progress Reviewed

Military Governor Outlines Achievements of Past Year and Outlook
For Future in Message to German People; Grants Amnesty Extension

| take this opportunity to extend to you my
Christmas greetings and my hope that you
will have the best holiday that present cir-
cumstances allow. I realize that with the
unfavorable picture which has existed in the
German economic scene this past year, there
will not be in Germany during the next few
days the same happy celebrations that mark-
ed your peacetime Christmases. You must
realize that present conditions are the direct
result of the wartime destruction of both
human and physical resources. Therefore,
to most of you, this Christmas can only be
celebrated in a sober spirit.

I can assure you, however, that the Amer-
ican Occupation Forces in Germany are not
motivated by revenge. They have no wish
to prolong the difficulties with which you
are faced.

US POLICY CLEARLY DEFINED

The policy of the United States Govern-
ment in regard to Germany was clearly set
forth in an address by the Honorable James
F. Byrnes, United States Secretary of State,
at Stuttgart on 6 September. In that address,
Secretary Byrnes emphasized that “the
American people who fought for freedom
have no desire to enslave the German people.
The freedom Americans believe in and fought
for is a freedom which must be shared with
all willing to respect the freedom of others.”

Secretary Byrnes also said:

“The American people want peace. They
have long since ceased to talk of a hard or
soft peace for Germany. This has never been
the real issue. What we want is a lasting
peace. We will oppose harsh and vengeful
measures which obstruct an effective peace.
We will oppose soft measures which invite
the breaking of the peace.”

Viewing the past few months in retrospect,
on the negative side we see that great pro-

'7

gress has been made in demilitarization and
generally in denazification. Although the
progress made by your own tribunals in the
application of your law for liberation from
national socialism and militarism has not
been altogether satisfactory, we are hearten-
ed by the increased effort which has become
evident in the past six weeks. On the
positive side, substantial progress has been
made in building up democratic institutions.
I refer specifically to the development of
local and state government, culminating in
the adoption of constitutions and the election
of constituent assemblies by the freely ex-
pressed will of the people in each of the
three Laender in the US Zone.

‘When we turn to the economic, industrial,
and financial fields which are of vital concern
to every German, we find that less progress
has been made. Shortages of food, coal,
transport, industrial raw materials, and con-
sumer goods of virtually every kind still
characterize the German scene. This highly
unsatisfactory economic situation, candor
compels me to say, has been accentuated to
some extent by failure of the four occupying
powers jointly to implement that very im-
portant part of the Potsdam Agreement pro-
viding for the unified economic treatment of
Germany.

Zonal boundaries should exist only for de-
limiting occupational areas and not to hamper
Germany’s economic life. Neither the equit-
able distribution of essential commodities
between the zones nor the working out of a
balanced economy for Germany as a whole
to provide payment for essential imports has
been accomplished. Both of these are re-
quired under the provisions of the Potsdam
Agreement, as Secretary Byrnes pointed out
in Stuttgart. Moreover, the Central German
Administrative Department for Finance,
Transport, Communications, Foreign Trade

--- Page 21 ---
and Industry, likewise provided for in the
Potsdam Agreement, have not yet been estab-
lished by quadripartite action.

Let me emphasize that the American people
have no desire to deny the German people an
opportunity to work their way out of their
present hardships so long as Germany re-
spects human freedom and abjures war and
militarism.

It was for this reason and as a step toward
implementing the Potsdam Agreement
that we announced on 20 July of this year
our readiness to join with any other oc-
cupying power or powers in measures for
treating our respective zones as a single
economic unit.

We mentioned on that occasion that the
United States Government is unwilling to
permit creeping economic paralysis to grow
here as a result of Germany being adminis-
tered in four airtight compartments, if it is
possible to join our zone economically with
any or all of the other three zones.

BIZONAL ECONOMIC ACCORD

As you probably know, the British Gov-
ernment accepted
merger proposal. On the third of this month,
the finalized agreement was announced in
Washington providing for the full economic
integration of the American and British
Zones of Occupation in Germany, effective
1 January 1947.

This bizonal agreement envisages an eco-
nomic program calculated to make the area
self-sustaining in three years. This program
is expected to form the basis for the gradual
restoration of a healthy non-aggressive Ger-
man economy and in turn contribute to the
economic stability of Europe.

our zonal economic

Other significant provisions of the Anglo-
American bizonal agreement pertain to the
establishment of a joint export-import
agency to promote and finance foreign trade,
the pooling of resources of the two zones to
produce a common standard of living, and
the establishment of German Administrative
Agencies necessary to the economic unifica-
tion of the two zones.

18

In actual operation, the new bizonal
agreement will result in many reciprocal
advantages to the two zones through their
economic merger begining with the new
year 1947. This prospect should lend en-
couragement to many Germans who are eco-
nomically despondent and hitherto have
seen little hope for their country’s economic
rehabilitation.

YOUTH ACTIVITIES ENCOURAGED

As this season of the year is of special
significance to the children, I will make
special mention of another American ob-
jective which is of major importance in
building up peaceful democracy in Germany.
This is the encouragement of German Youth
Activities. Under the Nazis the Hitler
Jugend was the only youth organization
permitted to exist. After this organization
was disbanded by the Allies, democratically
organized movements began to spring into
life spontaneously. However, these organi-
zations lacked necessary material, equipment,
and democratically trained leaders to aid
them. During this period, our military per-
sonnel has officially provided supplies and
now nearly one thousand military personnel
are directly engaged as German Youth Activ-
ities officers and non-commissioned officers.
This assistance has brought about an ac-
celerated upswing of youth activities which
has exceeded the expectation of your youth
officials. The number of authorized youth
groups has grown to more than seven thou-
sand with more than seven hundred thousand
members.

ARMY ASSISTANCE CITED

Troop detachments have organized sports
events, youth days, clubs, discussion groups,
etc. Scouting, YMCA, YWCA, hosteling, and
other groups have been helped and encourag-
ed. Equipment and materials have been
transferred, and transportation and youth
centers provided.

In every Kreis and Land in the US Zone
a German Youth Committee has been organiz-
ed. These committees provide an organiza-

(Continued on page 32)

--- Page 22 ---
Zone Export Program

Managers and Directors of consumer goods
industries in the US Zone were recently
urged to submit production programs show-
ing to what extent they require raw mater-
ials for the manufacture of export products.
The Chief of the Trade and Commerce
Branch of the OMGUS Economics Division
stated that the $7,750,000 in commodity
advances made available to OMGUS by the
US Commercial Company, a US Government
subsidiary, cannot be allocated without
detailed information as to the production
needs of each industry.

It was further pointed out that the
purpose of the commodity advances is to
reduce occupation costs by expansion of ex-
ports from the US Zone, and that purchases
of imported raw materials is an “interim
program” which, if successful, will permit
additional allocations of funds from time to
time before 30 June 1947. The importance
of non-transactional commercial correspond-
ence which became available to Germans in
the US Zone on 2 December 1946 was
emphasized, and marks a long step forward
in the encouragement of export transactions
by permitting the exchange of facts and
information between manufacturers in Ger-
many and the prospective customer abroad.

Initial commodity advances cover five
individual programs in the following
amounts: Ceramics, $1,000,000; Light Ma-
chinery and Optics, $1,750,000; Basic
Chemicals, $3,500,000; Building Industry,
$1,000,000; Miscellaneous, $500,000.

Products which are readily saleable abroad
and for which raw materials can be made
available under the light machinery and
optics program include: Agricultural ma-
chinery and spare parts, shoe machinery and
spare parts, sewing machinery and spare
parts, textile machinery and spare parts,
baking equipment, rubber machinery, spare
parts for automobiles and trucks, X-ray

19

equipment for medical and dental
bicycles and parts, printing machinery and
spare parts, papermaking machinery, paper
converting and cutting machinery, printing
matrices, switch gears, typewriters, spare
parts for Diesel and other marine engines,
cameras, and microscopes.

Swiss Relief Agency

The Centre D’Entr’Aide, Swiss private
welfare agency, has been authorized through
a recent agreement with OMGUS, to send.
gift relief parcels to Germans resident in
the US Zone. This agency will deliver
packages ordered by Swiss citizens to Ger-
man private welfare agencies for distribution
tc the addressees.

The packages will be of four standard
types and will cost the equivalent of from
eight to fourteen dollars. Typical contents
of the packages are: butter and fat, cheese,
bacon, malt extract, powdered milk, honey,
sugar, and cocoa, although not all those items
will be included in a single parcel. A
percentage of the profits from the sale of
the parcels will be allocated to general
relief in the US Zone.

Foreign Holdings

MG Law No. 53, which requires all Ger-
mans to report their foreign property even
though it may have been seized, was reaf-
firmed recently by the Finance Division,
OMGUS, after the recent conviction of a
German national by an MG court of OMG
Bavaria. The Board of Review for the
Office of Military Government for Bavaria
has upheld the court’s findings.

An order similar to Military Government
Law No. 53 has recently been enacted by the
Allied Kommandatura for Greater Berlin
where declarations of foreign exchange
assets must be filed with the Berliner Stadt-
kontor by 31 December 1946.

--- Page 23 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The Laenderrat considers international
freight service to be of prime importance
to the German economy because of the ne-
cessity of general imports, and because re-
ceipts derived from international rail traf-
fic would help pay for needed imports. In
a reply to their request for clarification, MG
stated that, although international rail traf-
fic in Germany is to be encouraged and has
already made definite advancements, it must
progress only as fast as the capacity of the
German railways is increased and general
economic conditions in Europe are bettered.

A census of agricultural machinery will
be taken in both the US and British zones
on 4 February 1947. Uniformity of the
census in the two Zones is to be referred to
the Bizonal Food and Agriculture organiza-
tion. Machinery purchase and sales by type
of machinery since 3 December 1946 will
be included in the enumeration schedule.

MOVEMENT OF POTATOES

An emergency movement of 40,000 tons
of fresh potatoes from Bavaria was scheduled
to occur before Christmas. About 25 percent
went to the larger cities in Bavaria, 32
percent to Wuerttemberg-Baden, 18 percent
to Hesse, and 25 percent to the British Zone.

The Soviet border station for Honeback
and Dankmarshausen, closed on 26 and 27
November, has been reopened. Agreements
have been reached on an interzonal basis
to permit shipments of goods for the entire
distance interzonally on the tariff rate ex-
isting in the zone of departure, until such
time as uniform rates on special tariffs are
effected in all zones.

The consumption of coal by the building
materials industry has been 50 percent above
allocations for the past two months. Since
additional supplies of coal are sometimes
obtained by barter, control measures have
been recently initiated.

Recent restitutions have included the re-
turn to Poland of industrial machinery, 400
telephones, and 13 strings of pearls. Mill-

20

ing machines have been returned to Lux-
embourg; 29 stud horses have been return-
ed to Yugoslavia; paintings, sculptures, and
tapestries to the Netherlands; and freight
and passenger cars to Italy. A Ruysdael
landscape was among other pictures inclu-
ded in the ninth shipment of art objects re-
moved from Austria by the US Forces in
Austria.

BIZONAL PROGRAM

It is expected that the US and British
agreement for bizonal financing of the two
zones will result in decreasing expenditures
to prevent disease and unrest. Export sales
are being made by the US Commercial Com-
pany, which will retain 50 percent of the
proceeds as partial payments of advances.
Direct sales by OMGUS will also be made.
The program includes the exporting of such
products as ceramics, gifts and handicrafts,
light machinery, optics, building materials,
and basic chemicals. Offers have already
been accepted for the export of Diesel
marine engines to French North Africa, and
of china and toys to Switzerland.

Motion picture production licenses have
been granted to three out of the 27 German
applicants under consideration. Tests were
recently begun at the Tempelhof studios for
72 speaking parts necessary for the German
sound synchronization of the American film,
“Ziegfeld Girl.”

LECTURES ON AMERICAN LIFE

Amerikakunde institutes at Marburg and
Frankfurt universities in Hesse are sponsor-
ing lectures and discussions on various pha-
ses of American life. In addition, exhibits
of American professional societies, such as
architectural engineering, art, educational,
and scientific societies will be provided by
the institutes during the coming year. A
course on modern American literature is to
be given in English by an American instruct-
or in the second semester of the Bremen
Adult Education School.

--- Page 24 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained ‘by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

Release of Internees

Conditions under which physically or
mentally incapacitated internees may be
released from civilian internment enclosures
for trial in their home communities are set
forth in OMGUS Cable V-11632 dated 13
December.

Regional officers of MG are authorized to
approve requests by Ministers of Political
Liberation to release internees, but approvals
should be confined to cases where the
security hazard is slight and no objective
of MG is endangered.

Building Temperatures

New instructions regarding temperatures
to be maintained in various types of installa-
tions have been issued by USFET in Cable
SC-25699, dated 16 December. Pointing
out that the critical coal situation makes
economy imperative, the cable designates
building temperatures as follows: medical
installations, seventy-two degrees; storage
facilities, fifty degrees; maintenance facili-
ties, sixty degrees; and all other buildings,
sixty-five degrees.

Attendance at | & E Schools

“Only military personnel will be enrolled
in classes taught by US civilian instructors
paid from War Department appropriated
funds,” states USFET directive “Attendance
of Civilians at Information and Education
Command Schools,” AG 352-AGO dated
7 December. US civilian employees may be
enrolled in classes taught by instructors paid
from other than appropriated funds, provid-
ed that they can be accomodated without
interfering with the enrollment of military
personnel, but allied civilians and depend-

21

ents of officers, enlisted men, and civilian
employees will not be registered.

Nationality Classification

Clarification of nationality classification
under the Kennkarte program is contained
in Cable V-11802 dated 18 December. The
cable states: “To avoid future confusion,
and to prevent some persons from obtaining
privileges of a preferred status, to which
they are not entitled, the following instruc-
tions apply: German expellees from Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Austria will
be registered as German. Persons who are
not German nationals by birth or naturaliza-
tion, or who have not established a bona
fide ‘stateless persons’ status, will be
registered under the nationality of the
country from which they came. If such
nationality, or any claim of foreign national-
ity, is unsupported by documentary or other
conclusive evidence, the statement ‘un-
verified’ will be added following the state-
ment of nationality.”

Farm Equipment Census

A census of all new and used farm ma-
chinery and equipment owned by farmers,
custom workers, cooperatives, and dealers
will be made on 4 February 1947, according
to Cable V-11835 dated 19 December. This
census will be taken in accordance with an
agreement reached by the Allied Control
Authority and is being coordinated in the
US Zone by the Laenderrat.

Discharged Military Personnel

Effective immediately, the appointment of
discharged military personnel in the Theater
will be in accordance with the standard
conditions of employment as set forth in a
War Department Civilian Personnel Circu-
lar, which provides for a minimum period
of one year service from date of entrance
on duty in civilian employment. This policy
is set forth in USFET cable, reference
number SC-24323, dated 5 December 1946.

--- Page 25 ---
Foreign Speaking Engagements
Draw Varied Press Comment

The official visits of the Rev. Martin
Niemoeller to the United States and Kurt
Schumacher, leader of the Social Democratic
Party in western Germany, to England for
speaking engagements drew varied editorial
comment from the licensed German press.

In criticizing Niemoeller’s trip, the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) said: “We
would like to make the Americans aware of
the fact that only an exceedingly small part
of the Germans see Niemoeller as their
representative, while the vast majority
regrets the impression created abroad that
he speaks for the German people, or even
for the Christian churches of Germany... .

“Anybody who reads Niemoeller’s little
book ‘From Submarine to the Pulpit’ must
be struck by the mental primitivity and
even more by the theological half-education
of the author.... Now he travels through
the United States giving lectures that are
of such caliber that they were publicly
attacked by Mrs. Roosevelt because she
justly believes that it is not enough to be an
enemy of Hitler if one does not also fight
against the principles that made him
possible in the first place.”

An editorial in Der Neue Tag (Weiden)
on the English visit of Schumacher said he
“is probably the most striking political per-
sonality of postwar Germany. Unafraid, he
states the facts and is not above pointing out
the mistakes of the occupation forces and
the unavoidable necessities which might
prevent the final decline of Germany and
the endangering of Europe.... Dr. Schu-
macher has become the spokesman of the
German people.”

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth) com-
mented that the English saw Schumacher as
a representative not of Germany which

Germany. The edt kn
is a number of persons who believe that the
visit of Dr. Schumacher was a demonstra-
tion. One can only say to that: Yes! But
a peaceful one, and Germany and _ the
European nations who honestly live in peace
need as much as possible of that!

“Second Nuremberg Trial”

The opening of the “Second Nuremberg
Trial” of 23 accused German doctors and
scientists brought strong editorials in the
German press of the US Zone, according to
the weekly press analysis of the Office of
the Director of Information Control,
OMGUS.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) said,
“One gets the impression that there is less
divergence of opinion about this trial than
about any of the previous war crime
trials. .... The physicians that now stand
before their judges at Nuremberg find an
unanimous and well-founded hostility among
the public, a hostility derived from justified
fear — different from the political main
offenders whose dilletantism was borne with
equanimity and later even forgiven by our
politically somewhat cold-blooded public.
Everybody feels personally endangered, be-
cause tomorrow he may himself be an inmate
of a clinic and a helpless medical ‘case’.”

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung said in an
editorial: “All medical science is an un-
broken chain of proof that after serious
scientific tests there are no so-called in-
curable diseases which cannot be cured at a
certain stage of medical knowledge.” The
editorial continued, “The spirit of fascist
barbarism must give way for the spirit of
humanity, the lack of consideration for
human life must be replaced by its highest
consideration. Such acts of shame can
never recur when the spiritual reorientation
of our people asserts itself.”

--- Page 26 ---
Unanimity Urged

The. Stutigarter: Nachrichten” advocated a
~eoalition “government in Wuerttemberg-
Baden.similar to-thé English wartime gov-
ernment ‘and attacked recent suggestions
concerning the nature of the opposition. The
editorial said in part:

“We will not measure the achievements of
this (newly elected) government as one
usually measures governments, by the
lowering of tax rates, increase of sugar pro-
duction, reduction of students per class-
room. Let us harbor no illusions! The
achievements of this first democratic gov-
ernment since 1932 will be measured by the
mortality rate of this coming winter.... In
this desparate situation, many persons sug-
gest a ‘normal’ game between government
and opposition. This seems to be a disser-
vice to our growing democracy.”

German Voice at Moscow

Der Abend, US-licensed independent
evening newspaper in Berlin, declared
application by German political leaders for
permission to attend the coming Moscow
conference is justified in principle. The
newspaper said, ‘““When the German fate is
decided one should not be silent in Ger-
many.”

Pointing out there is no German govern-
ment yet, the paper stated there are, how-
ever, men in Germany who can speak for
the German population. ‘The paper cited
as such party leaders, ministers of the Ger-
man Laender, and journalists.

“These competent persons,” declared the
paper, “should raise their voices in order
to... be heard abroad. They have a
responsibility greater than ever before.
They should speak tactfully and with sense.”

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten, in an edi-
torial on the same sub ject, critized the lack
of preparation in Germany for a peace
conference. In making comparison with
1919, the paper said, “The Allies have

23

again made’ extensive preparations for the
peace with Germany. However, in Germany
itself almost nothing has been done or
prepared. There are hardly any specialists
who have learned the methods and ways of
international relations and have at the
same time refused to be fellow travelers in
the way of the Third Reich.”

Denazification Prerequisites

“If denazification is to be successful,”
said the Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-
bischofsheim), “it is tied to these three pre-
requisites: the existence of the people ac-
cording to European minimum standards, the
reconstruction of the economy in a socialis-
tic form, and third the political seriousness
and the complete honesty of Germans in
the Spruchkammern.... No one of these
prerequisites alone is sufficient.”

Party Newspapers

The reasons for the impracticability of
permitting party newspapers at the present
in the US occupied area of Germany were
cited in an editorial in the Fraenkische
Landeszeitung (Ansbach). The editorial
read in part:

“The forest of sheets rustled loudly. One
part of the newspapers served capital, the
other the parties. But true freedom and
independence had to be sought under the
microscope. And after 1933, the press be-
came completely the amenable slut of Hitler
and his minions . . .

“At present they are working again
to build the German press. In Gar-
misch-Partenkirchen, the publishers of all
the papers licensed in the American
Zone convened a short time ago... The
demand raised by the political parties for
party newspapers found no echo. The will
to strengthen the independence and freedom
of the present papers found universal ap-
proval. To be sure, the right for issuance
of a party press was recognized, but the
time for these has not yet come, for many
technical, material, and ideal reasons .. .”

--- Page 27 ---
PRESS and RADIO COMMENTS

ConsiderationofGermanPeace
Treaty Welcomed by US Press

The decision of the Council of Foreign
Ministers to meet in Moscow in March to
deal with the question of Germany’s and
Austria’s future was widely commented on
in American newspapers.

Editorials welcomed the fact that no
further delay will be forthcoming on the
problem that is vital for European security
and world peace. Many declared that freedom
of the press and the air — so that the world
can be adequately and quickly informed of
the discussions — was one of the essential
prerequisities for fruitful deliberations.

The Baltimore Sun said in part: “Schedu-
ling of definite dates and the preparation of
an agenda are encouraging signs. It has
long been apparent that the stability of
Europe would have (to wait on) permanent
decisions regarding Germany. Work on the
treaties with smaller enemy countries was
begun first in the belief that it would make the
approach to the German question easier.
Whether that purpose has been served re-
mains to be seen.

“But at least the real tasks of peace-
making are now booked for the early part
of next year; the readiness. to set dates and
success in drawing an agenda indicate a
degree of harmony which is promising.”

Christian Science Monitor said that when
the Ministers begin the task of drafting
terms for Germany “the key phase of the
liquidation of the war will be at hand.” The
Monitor continued: “The future of great
power cooperation may well hinge upon
how successfully the two most powerful
systems of government reconcile their dif-
ferences over Germany. The significance of
this cannot be over-rated.

“For the machinery of nascent world gov-
ernment, the approach to disarmament, and
the efforts towards atomic control — all

24

these will be deeply ef:
and the atmospheres which
negotiations evoke.... Secretary Byrnes has
already made a firm beginning in proposing
that occupation troops be reduced to garrison
strength. For overswift American deploy-
ment has placed the western Allies in a
greatly disadvantageous strategic position in
Germany. Clearly this can now be remedied
only by insistence that the Russians reduce
their own occupying forces to a level com-
parable with those of the United States,
Britain and France.

“But in reducing troops to a security level
the basic fact must not be lost — that long-
term occupation of Germany is the requisite
to guarantee the reformation without which
the peace would be lost.

The New York Times: “These settlements
(on Germany and Austria) may contain the
seeds of peace or war, of life or death.
Every human being has a right to know
how each is arrived at and just what is in
it. Freedom of the press and closely related
freedom of the air have never been more
important than they will be in Moscow next
year.

“Secretary Byrnes has now had from
Foreign Minister Molotov what are thought
to be definite assurances that outside cor-
respondents will have facilities at the
Moscow Conference comparable with those
they had at Paris and in New York. We
hope that these assurances will be put on a
definite and detailed basis before the con-
ference opens.”

On the same point, Louisville Courier-
Journal said: “This is the big show, the
meeting designed to produce peace treaties
with Germany and Austria. There will be
no greater news event in the world than the
deliberation that means the conference must
be reported in full, with no interference
from censorship.”

An editorial in the St. Louis Globe-

--- Page 28 ---
Democrat, which said it is “quite proper”
that the next session of the Council be held
in Moscow, since previous meetings have
taken place in London, Paris, and New York,
concluded that “much needs to be ac-
complished before then, not the least im-
portant item being creation of a government
for the German people. Without that, no
treaty can be signed. And before any such
administration can be set up, the Soviet
Union, France and Britain and the United
States will have to effect a unity of control.
The four occupation zones must’ abandon
their policy of separatism. America and
Britain have paved the way by joining their
zones into a united German program before
any hope for a Reich peace is possible.”

Baltimore Sun, in another editorial, said
in part: “Both Soviet Russia and the western
powers know how great are the stakes in
the shaping of Germany’s future. There are
temptations to ‘use’ Germany — and they
have been manifest during the period of
occupation — as a pawn in the dangerous
rivalry between East and West. Such efforts
in so far as they succeed, will only serve to
perpetuate discord; yet almost certainly they
will be encountered at every step in the
peace-treaty negotiations.

“The rivalry which inspires them, how-
ever, is also in the long run the best protec-
tion against them. That is why we must
expect each step in the German settlement
to be taken slowly,and to the accompaniment
of much bargaining.”

Norfolk Ledger-Dispatch, observing that
while it is difficult now to appraise the
smaller power treaties agreed upon by the
Foreign Ministers, said:

“The most significant immediate demon-
stration is the manner in which despite
difficulties this task was accomplished. That
is a fact to be kept in mind as the Ministers
turn to the German treaty. They are sure
to encounter disagreements there.

“As they do, it will be well.to remember
that the disagreements, not the agreements,
attract most of the attention and that in the
midst of angry debate much may be rising

25

almost unnoticed behind the outward strug-
gles. We advance slowly, but we advance.”

UN General Assembly

American editorials generally regarded
the recently concluded General Assembly as
having made fruitful contributions towards
the attainment of world peace. They linked
the accomplishments of the Council of
Foreign Ministers with that of the assembly
in taking this optimistic position.

Papers stated that not only had the
Assembly given voice to world opinion, but
in doing so it had pointed the way to a
better world, particularly by its resolution
to regulate and reduce armaments. And they
felt that during the sessions closer agree-
ment had been cemented between east and
west, brought about in the main by Russia’s
“concessions.”

The New York Sun said: “In bringing to
a close the 54-day assembly, President Paul-
Henry Spaak observed that its delegates
could carry home with them a message of
confidence, of hope and pride in all that
has been accomplished. Few will be disposed
to take issue with him... .

“Speakers in the concluding hour laid
greatest stress on the disarmament resolu-
tion — the agreement ‘in principle’ on hav-
ing the Security Council work out details
of disarmament. This unquestionably was
the major step toward world peace taken
at the 1946 meeting. And there were such
other major accomplishments as the creation
of the organization to care for refugees, the
formation of a Trusteeship Council and the
selection of a permanent home. But tran-
scending these.... was a spirit of deter-
mination to prove that an international body,
developed on democratic lines in which the
smallest as well as the largest may be heard,
can and must be made to work.”

Baltimore Sun:. “The basis of optimism
lies partly in the accomplishments of. the
assembly itself, partly in the accomplish-
ments of the Council of Foreign Ministers
— and most of all in the. conciliation spirit

--- Page 29 ---
shown lately by the Russians. ;

“The work of the assembly was a fitting
retort to those who had dismissed it as a
‘mere debating society.’ True, it does not
have the final word in matters affecting war
and peace. But in its debates no punches
were pulled. They were honest and earnest.
And the resolutions which emerged from
them reflect the real temper of those de-
bates. The Security Council in which so
much of the final authority of the United
Nations is lodged cannot disregard them ...
Though things look better than they did,
prudent people will hold their optimism
under strict control, just as they held their
pessimism under strict control when inter-
national collaboration seemed by way of dis-
integrating completely.”

Washington Post: “The assembly has
justified the faith and the hopes of the men
who wrote the Charter at San Francisco.
It is in fact what it was dubbed by its
founders — the town meeting of the world,
the place where nations of different size,
population, race and historic background
meet on common ground to discuss issues
of concern to them all. The small powers,
in particular, have taken seriously and seiz-
ed upon with avidity the freedom of ex-
pression which this forum has made avail-
able. The assembly just ended was re-
markably free speaking. It also was un-
biased...

“Taken all in all, adding up its successes
and its failures, its strength and its inade-
quacies, the General Assembly has justified
itself before the world. It presented an old
force — the force of world opinion — man-
ifesting itself in a new setting. It is alive,
dynamic, pregnant, with great possibilities

experience of this assembly proves in
abundant measure that the United Nations
is a going concern.

New York Herald Tribune: “When the
Assembly opened only a very optimistic
prophet could have taken a hopeful view
of the international situation or of the prob-
able contributions which the assembly could
make to it. As the session now closes only
a pessimist can deny that the whole scene

is immeasurably brighter than it was in late
October; that the prestige of the United Na-
tions is at the highest point it has yet reach-
ed, and that even if nothing has been finally
settled the bases for workable settlements
are nearer and clearer than they have ever
been.

“The Assembly has shown itself, in the
first place, a true sounding board of world
opinion and not merely a house packed, by
voting majorities, for some one view or
another . . . The assembly in short has been
doing the work for which it was mainly
designed. It has acted as a useful forum
of opinion and of minority interests; it has
exposed the basic forces out of which any
world order must be made; it has arrived
at resolutions which in general reflect the
presently possible rather than the disas-
trously extreme. It has not made peace or
a new world. But is has helped toward
those ends.”

World Troop Survey

Commenting on the proposed world-wide
troop survey the Philadelphia Inquirer said
in a recent editorial: “There are worthwhile
possibilities in an honest showdown of ar-
mies. It could lead to a reduction of them and
perhaps provide a basis for an earlier ap-
proach by the Big Five Powers to a dis-
cussion of disarmament. The new British
position wisely dissociates the troops census
from disarmament parleys, which would de-
lay the troops survey for a year or more. It
does call for inclusion of reports on forces
held in active status inside each nation. This
is also part of the American Government’s
proposal.

“All nations, and particularly Russia with
its large armies, can gain by straightforward
treatment of this question. The United States,
while holding firmly to a policy of adequate
defense for this country, should endeavor to
have the issue dealt with on that basis.
America and Britain are reasonably close
together in their ideas about a troop survey.
It is to be hoped Russia will join with them
and seek a constructive, not a political or
propagandistic, disposition of the question.”

--- Page 30 ---
1946-1947 CIVIL ADMINISTRATION (continued from page 5)

cratic parliamentary governments — govern-
ments deriving their powers from constitu-
tions approved by the electorate and exer-
cising those powers under the control of the
elected representatives of the people.

The example of the US Zone was not
without its influence in the other zones which
are now engaged in a similar process of fram-
ing state constitutions. In this connection,
it may also be mentioned that the Allied Con-
trol Council approved a temporary constitu-
tion for Berlin which had been drafted under
the direction of the Allied Kommandatura.
Elections to the central city council and to
the twenty borough (Verwaltungsbezirk)
councils under this constitution were held on
20 October.

The adoption of the constitutions of Ba-
varia, Hesse, and Wuerttemberg-Baden
brought a great change in the relations of
Military Government to the German civil
governments of the US Zone. These changes
were described in the basic directive of
30 September and in the letters by which
Military Government approved the state con-
stitutions. Hereafter the role of Military Gov-
ernment will be primarily that of obser-
vation, inspection, reporting, and advising.
On the other hand, Military Government spe-
cifically reserved certain powers to itself,
particularly with reference to basic US poli-
cies, international agreements, quadripartite
legislation, and similar policy matters.

INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS PROTECTED

Before leaving the subject of state consti-
tutions, it should be pointed out that these
documents set forth in great detail the rights
of the individual and provide for judicial
protection of these rights against legislative
and administrative action. In view of the
flagrant disregard of all human rights by the
Nazis, this was particularly necessary. Prior
to 1933, the administrative courts had been
an important means of safeguarding the in-
dividual against the arbitrary acts of offi-
cials. Administrative courts were provided

27

for in the state constitutions and are now
being established in each of the three states.
The constitutions also contain various civil
service provisions and, in accordance with
the directives of Military Government, civil
service codes were promulgated in November
in Bavaria, Greater Hesse, and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. These codes purge the previous
laws of their Nazi features and provide for
a democratic service in which appointment
and promotion is based upon merit as deter-
mined by competitive examination, and in
which the caste features of the old bureau-
cracy are abolished.

REPORT ON CENTRAL AGENCIES

The creation of democratic constitutional
state governments was not an end in itself
but was a milestone on the road towards the
formation of a democratic constitutional Ger-
many as a whole. In his speech at Stuttgart
on 6 September, Secretary Byrnes called for
a federal form of government for Germany
and suggested the steps by which that could
be accomplished. The Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, working through the
Interdivisional Committee on Governmental
Structure in which various other divisions
actively participated, had previously prepa-
red a report on central German agencies and
another on central German government in
which federalism and other basic terms were
defined. These reports were then used by
the Interdivisional Committee in developing
the \riteria for the review of the state con-
stitutions.

The continued inability of the four powers
to reach agreement on the establishment of
the central German administrative depart-
ments called for by the Potsdam Declaration
greatly stimulated the growth of the Laender-
rat (council of ministers-president established
in October 1945) as a means whereby the
three states of the US Zone could cooperate
in the performance of common tasks. Start-
ing out with only a handful of committees,
the number of Laenderrat committees and
subcommittees is now approximately 70. As

--- Page 31 ---
the Laenderrat agenda became more crowded,
the so-called Directorate was established to
assist the Laenderrat by sifting and disposing
of routine matters, thus freeing the time of)
the Laenderrat for the consideration of im-
portant questions. Other Laenderrat offices
and agencies created during the year include
a commissioner of food and agriculture, a
price commissioner, a transport directorate
(at Frankfurt), and a senior post directorate
(at Munich).

On 20 July, the American member of the
Allied Control Council announced that, pen-
ding quadripartite implementation of the
Potsdam decision to treat all of Germany as
an economic unit, the United States favored
the economic unification of its zone with any
other zone or zones. Although the offer was
made to all three powers, it was accepted
only by the British. Negotiations were begun
which resulted in the signing of an agree-
ment on 4 December by Secretary Byrnes
and Secretary Bevin. Under this agreement
which provides for the full economic integra-
tion of the two zones, bizonal economic agen-
cies have been set up which will begin func-
tioning on 1 January 1947.

At the close of 1946, the governmental or-
ganization of the US Zone on a democratic

basis had been completed but there remain
many questions which require clarification.
What will be the future relations of the
states to the Laenderrat and to the new bi-
zonal economic agencies? Will the British
Zone also develop a Laenderrat and will the
Laenderraete of the two zones eventually
merge into a single body? How will all these
developments fit into any agreements which
the four powers may be able to reach at the
Moscow meeting in March 1947 of the Coun-
cil of Foreign Ministers?

The principal quadripartite achievement in
the field of civil administration in 1946 was
the nationwide census which was taken on
29 October under the supervision of the
Allied Control Authority. This operation was
conspicuously successful and demonstrates
that the quadripartite machinery can be
made to work. The actual taking of the cen-
sus was done by German authorities of the
four zones who worked out the details in
frequent conferences with each other.

Such inter-zone conferences of German
officials were not limited to census officers
but were increasingly resorted to for other
matters as well. This in itself is a hopeful
sign since it furthers the political and eco-
nomic unification of the country.

1946-1 947 FOOD “AND . AGRICULTURE (Continued trom page'9)

direct human consumption. To raise a hog
to standard slaughter weight requires
1,365,000 calories in potatoes and small
grains, plus some fodder beets and skimmed
milk. The pork and lard from the hog would
then supply only about 400,000 calories.
The principal responsibility for the ap-
plication and successful accomplishment of
the plan rests with the German administra-
tion and German farmers. But OMGUS
agencies are aiding in making the plan
successful by handling problems which the
Germans themselves cannot solve under
existing conditions. The Food and Agri-
culture Branch of OMGUS has bought more
than four million dollars worth of field and
vegetable seeds for the use of German pro-
ducers during the 1946-47 crop year, and

28

negotiations are in progress to procure ad-
ditional seeds to meet minimum requirements.
Tt is expected that during 1946-47 the US
Zone will import from foreign countries
135,000. metric tons of commercial fertilizers
valued at more than 12 million dollars.
Twenty-one thousand metric tons of seed
potatoes were recently purchased for the
Zone from Czechoslovakia, Denmark, and
Poland; and an additional 27,000 tons were
obtained through exchange with the Soviet
and British Zones.

The goal of the plan is the use of all
possible indigenous resources to produce
maximum food in 1946-47. Its success
depends on the effectiveness of German
administration, and on the responsibility and
production of the individual German farmer.

--- Page 32 ---
1946-1947 INDUSTRY. -(Continued from page 7)

was approximately 10,000 tons per month.
At present it is 17,000 tons per month, with
a goal for mid-1947 of 22,000 tons per
month,

The light metal production of 1800 plants
increased during the past year to a level
which now approaches the minimum critical
needs of the disease and unrest program,
particularly in the food and agriculture
field. In addition, emphasis has been placed
on occupational needs, military requirements,
and items for export. A 42-ton production
of silverware for export is under way, and
a similar jewelry project using gold is being
planned. Both projects have a high dollar
value return. Dependents’ furniture program
quotas have been continuously met; and
maximum use has been made of German war
materials, US Army scrap, and waste to
increase light metals production.

The ceramics industry has been rejuvenat-
ed by importing china clay and brown coal
from Czechoslovakia, which is: in turn
manufactured into household and decorative
china for export and has a return value of

about 10 to 1 on the investment. This luxury ~

china program was the first approved pro-
duction program for US export.

CHEMICAL INDUSTRY

In the field of chemical industry all ef-
forts were concentrated on the maximum
production of chemical fertilizers, in view
of the urgent need for large food crops.
However, it was still necessary to make ar-
rangements to import large quantities of
nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers. The
pharmaceutical industry in the US Zone
shows a better recovery than the rest of the
chemical industry, but there is a great
shortage of insulin and penicillin. Germany
can become self-sufficient in insulin if her
former methods of collecting pancreas glands
can be reestablished. Penicillin production is
low, due to a lack of manufaturing facilities,
technical knowledge, and technicians trained
in modern methods. Efforts are being made
to remedy these situations as goon and as

29

thoroughly as possible.

The basic ration of soap in the US Zone
per month is one bar containing 25 grams of
fatty acids, or about one. to one-and-a-half
pounds of soap per year per person, compar-
ed to US consumption of about 23 pounds
per year per person. The production of soap
in Germany cannot be increased until the
normal imports of fats and oils.are reestab-
lished.. In the meantime every effort is being
made to increase fat colection and to expand
the production of synthetic detergents.

SYNTHETIC RUBBER PRODUCTION

The production of synthetic rubber is a
forbidden industry in Germany. However, in
view of Germany’s inability to purchase the
required amounts of natural crude rubber,
the Control Council has authorized the pro-
duction of synthetic rubber until funds are
available. for imports. The US Zone is
dependent on the other three zones for its
supply of synthetic rubber, but 40 percent
of the rubber tire manufacuring plants in
Germany are in the US Zone; currently about
28,000 automobile and truck tires are being
turned out each month in the Zone, with the
tire plants operating at about 40 percent of
capacity. Shortages of other materials,
notably tire cord and natural rubber, are
limiting factors.

The chemical industry program for 1947
calls for a steady increase in the production
of chemicals, with special emphasis on the
production of chemical fertilizers.

Public utility services were increased dur-
ing 1946, largely as a result of close atten-
tion to coal allocations and deliveries, and of
repairs made to plants and installations as
critical materials became available. In
September it was necessary to freeze gas
production levels to allow for a satisfactory
margin of coal stocks through the winter
months, and in November electric power was
curtailed, despite increased capacity, because
of increasing power exports to Austria,
shortage of stein coal for steam generation
in the British Zone, and the unseasonable low

--- Page 33 ---
water for hydro-generation over all of
Europe. During the year the organization of
MG Utility Sections in the Laender was com-
pleted, as well as the establishment of Ger-
man Utility Committees in each Land and at
Laenderrat level to deal with the Land and
Zonal utility problems. On the bizonal level
a German Central Board for Public Utility
Services was established.

The production of potash has been con-
tinuously increased during the year because
of the urgent need for fertilizers. Iron ore
mines are producing the requirements of the
steel plants operating in the US Zone, and
every effort is being made to maximize the
production of iron pyrites because of the
urgent needs of the sulfuric acid industry.
Other production, such as clay, is sufficient
to meet industrial demands.

From a meager beginning in the first
quarter of 1946, the US Zone is now produc-
ing 26,000 tons of pig iron monthly, 20,000
tons of ingots, and 16,500 tons of steel cast-
ings. In the non-ferrous field, fabrication is
now at the rate of 2,000 tons a month, as
against 400 tons in the first quarter.

A bizonal study is currently being made
by British and American delegations to
determine the possibility and advisability of
importing crude oil and utilizing German
refinery capacity to the utmost. Preliminary
figures indicate that substantial savings may
be realized. Final action is expected by
1 March 1947. A program has already been
developed for servicing all privately owned
vehicles in the two zones with POL by Ger-
man service stations.

REPARATIONS PROGRESS

German plants approved for reparations
numbered 658 as of 31 October 1946, of
which 157 are in the US Zone. 109 plants
in the Zone were designated as industrial
war plants, and 70 of them have already
been eliminated as war potential, with work
now in progress in removing war potential
from 17 other plants. Objectives for 1947
are: to complete shipments of all advanced
delivery plants as soon as practicable after
allocations are made; to carry on liquidation

30

of war potential in war plants; to complete
evaluation work on plants already approved;
and to expedite shipments of general purpose
equipment in war plants which have already
been allocated to recipient nations.

Although recovery has been substantial '
during the past year, much further progress
must be made before industry approaches
the level essential to maintain a self-support-
ing German economy. A gain of at least 60
percent above the November rate would be
needed to bring industrial output in the Zone
to that contemplated in the Level of Industry
Plan estimates for 1949.

ROLE OF LIGHT INDUSTRIES

The light industries, which have thus far
lagged in recovery, must contribute a major
share to further industrial advance, partic-
ularly since industrial disarmament of Ger-
many requires that they play a larger rela-
tive role in the post-war German economy
than heretofore. However, further improve-
ment in the heavy industries is also impera-
tive to provide the light industries with
needed equipment, fuel, materials, and trans-
portation.

The general picture portrayed by these
figures indicates considerable progress
toward the restoration of the industrial
economy of the US Zone. However, it is
necessary to emphasize that the months im-
mediately ahead are clouded by serious dif-
ficulties and uncertainties. Most serious is
the growing pinch of the coal shortage, ag-
gravated by the need to divert coal from
industrial uses in order to maintain electric
power output in the face of the seasonal
drop in hydrogeneration, and to provide a
minimum of essential heating. Periodic
power interruptions are also curtailing pro-
duction in many plants. Chronic shortages of
raw materials and transportation continue.
Setbacks in some industries will be unavoid-
able this winter, and there may be a reduc-
tion in the level of output for industry
as a whole. Industrial production next
spring, however, should start from a con-
sidearbly higher level than a year before.

--- Page 34 ---
1946-1947 TRADE AND COMMERCE (Continued trom page 11)

to become effective 1 January 1947.

Secretary of State Byrnes and Foreign
Secretary Bevin described the agreement as
“a first step towards the economic unification
of Germany as a whole” which they hope
“will lead to discussions with the other occu-
pying powers for the extension of these or
similar arrangements to the other zones of
occupation.”

An immediate effect of the union of the
zones was the creation in Minden of a Ger-
man Executive Committee for Economics
which, acting through the Office for Econo-
mic Administration, will control the economic
development of the two zones under the
supervision of a Bipartite Economic Control
Group. A main department of the German
Office for Economic ‘Administration will
handle foreign trade matters for the two
zones. With the complete elimination of
economic barriers between the zones and a
pooling of programs for export and import,
a greater flow of trade and a higher level of
production within the combined area should
be forthcoming in 1947. It is planned that
the German Main Department for Foreign
Trade will assume an increasingly large role
in the control of German exports and im-
ports, although contracts for exports and im-
ports will continue for some time to be made
in the name of Military Government.

INTERNAL TRADE

Under the supervision of the Internal
Trade Section of OMGUS, trade within the
US Zone has flowed increasingly more freely
since January 1946. Rationing has become
more uniform and equitable; barter opera-
tions have diminished. Black market opera-
tions are no longer of great significance in
the US Zone. Travel and communication on
business matters have been practically free
for about six months; quadripartite semi-per-
manent interzonal passes have been adopted;
and individual troop purchases have been
brought under control so as to minimize any
undesirable impact on the German civilian

31

economy.

On the quadripartite level, Working Par-
ties on Rationing and on Interzonal Trade
have solved problems arising in these fields
among the four powers. The Party on Inter-
zonal Trade, in 1947, will consider: (1) a
plan for the exchange of basic information
among the four occupying powers concerning
the requirements of each zone from the indig-
enous resources of the German economy,
and a pian for integrating and coordinating
these requirements into interzonal trade pro-
grams; (2) the adoption of uniform inter-
zonal food coupons and fuel coupons for
interzonal travelers; (3) examination of the
present zone systems of releasing items into
interzonal trade, and agreement on a uni-
form system; and (4) continuous study of the
transport and travel problems.

PRICE CONTROL PROGRAM

In the field of price control, the existing
German price system with its regulations and
organizations has been utilized to a great
extent, varying in the indivudual zones with
each MG’s intensity of direction. Measures
have been taken to assure the maintenance of
prices and rents at pre-occupation levels, and
to assure that any price increases are spe-
cifically authorized.

In considering how successful the price
control program has been in the US Zone,
one only needs to point out that the German
price agencies have continued to hold legal
prices under control, and that thus far the
German legal price level has remained in-
credibly stable.

Though other measures are involved, price
control and rationing are recognized as cen-
tral instruments in combating inflation. The
effort will be continued with a full realiza-
tion by MG authorities and German authori-
ties that inflation would jeopardize the plan
to allow Germany a minimum balanced eco-
nomy after carrying out disarmament and
reparations and would disrupt Allied hopes
for a democratic and peaceful Germany.

--- Page 35 ---
OCCUPATION PROGRESS REVIEWED (Continued from page 18)

tional framework for
supervising youth work.

coordinating and

On the whole the program for German
youth is developing in a satisfactory manner,
and there are many hopeful signs that good
leadership is emerging and the goals for
German youth are being achieved.

Looking ahead, it is anticipated that the
economic situation will show substantial im-
provement, and that the development of
democratic government and of German Youth
Activities will progress even more favorably
during the coming year. These factors should
lead towards a peaceful, self-supporting, and
democratic Germany, provided you, the Ger-
man people, have an honest desire to reach
this goal. The support you give your own
elected government, your productive efforts
in agriculture and industry, as well as your
general attitude towards democratic proce-
dure during the coming year, will be care-
fully noted as a measure of your desire.

Believing that the great mass of German
peop# sincerely wish to attain this end, I
express the hope that your next and suc-
ceeding Christmas holidays will prove hap-
pier than those upon which you are now
entering.

YOUTH AMNESTY EXTENSION

Finally, I have approved an extension of
the terms of the Youth Amnesty to approxi-
mately 800,000 individuals who are not
chargeable under the Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Militarism as
major offenders or offenders, and whose
financial status conclusively shows that they
have not profited from Nazi greed and am-
bition. This Amnesty will also include those
persons not chargeable as major offenders
or offenders who suffer from more than fifty
percent disability. I am sure that this Am-
nesty will permit German administration to
proceed more vigorously to seek out and
punish the active Nazis who brought de-
struction on their country and at the same
time will encourage those who come under
its terms to seek the ways of democracy.

32

Details will be announced today by my Office
of Military Government.

* * *

Another recent statement by the Military
Governor reviewed the US Army's youth
activities program. It is printed below in
tts entirety.

German youth have responded to their
new freedom to join groups of their
own choosing to an extent far greater than
was expected by Military Government youth
officials. In recent weeks there has been
an accelerated upswing in the number of
groups authorized and the volume of par-
ticipants,

This growth can be seen best by consider-
ing the fact that membership in youth groups
jumped in the last three months from 477,734
as of 1 August 1946, to 718,192 as of 1 No-
vember 1946, a gain of 241,000, or approx-
imately 50 percent. Organized groups also in-
creased from 2,901 to 6,621. In November
an additional 1,200 groups have been
authorized.

GROWTH RESULT OF ARMY AID

This spurt forward has come about as the
result of several factors, primary of which
has been the 5 October directive which made
possible the greatly increased Army assis-
tance program. This program is already
undergirding and strengthening existing Ger-
man organizations and encouraging new
programs to spring into life. Nearly 1,000
military personnel are actively engaged in
assistance to German youth activities.

As a matter of fact, US troops have play-
ed a very important role in the revival of
Germany’s youth activities from the very
end of the war. At that time the Hitler
Jugend, which was the only youth group
permitted under the Nazis, was disbanded
and youth life was completely disorganized.

As early as September 1945 local troop
detachments began to assist youth groups
to come to life on a democratic basis. These
troops have organized sports events, youth
days, and youth clubs; directed discussion

--- Page 36 ---
groups; donated and loaned equipment and
program materials; and provided leadership,
transportation, and meeting places for all
sorts of youth groups. Each unit the size
of a company or larger has a youth activities
officer or NCO, but the participation of
the individual. soldier is on a voluntary
basis. During November approximately
45,000 soldiers participated in these activi-
ties. In addition thousands of Allied and
US civilian employees and their dependents
have voluntarily offered their services for
this worthwhile project.

This program will continue to increase in
importance and effectiveness as the occupa-
tional personnel gain insight and experience
and greater understanding of the task. Orien-
tation conferences have been sponsored by
Military Government and troop commanders
to aid German youth activities officers to
better understand their assignments and our
policies on youth activities.

HIGH POINTS SPECIFIED

High points in recent youth activities
development in the US Zone include:

1. Every Kreis in the Zone now has an
organized youth committee. This completes
the organization of the framework for
supervision and coordination of youth
activities by Military Government. The
youth activities officers carry on their work
with local groups by working through these
youth committees.

2. All over the zone youth centers and
youth homes are springing up. Berlin, for
instance, has opened seven such homes
already. In Bavaria 81 youth centers and
21 youth hostels have been opened. Wuert-
temberg-Baden reports another 15 hostels
opened. In a very important way such
facilities fill a need created by crowded and
cold homes and limited recreational facili-
ties for young people.

3. Planning and programs held around
Hallowe’en and Thanksgiving have brought
American personnel and German youth into
close cooperative effort. The Christmas
season will greatly extend this cooperation
and joint planning.

33

4. German leaders with an understanding
of democratic processes are still our most
important need for achieving success in our
youth activities program. There is not yet
a very widely held understanding of what
democratic leadership really means. Dis-
cussion groups are encouraged and em-
phasized by Military Government youth
officers. And noticeable strides forward are
seen in all parts of the Zone but here again
leaders with “knowhow” and insight are at
a premium. However, leadership training is
a major emphasis of Military Government
throughout the zone.

5. Full-time Jugendpfleger are being
added by the German Ministry of Culture
to many Kreis youth committees. Before
1933 a Jugendpfleger gave professional
leadership to each Kreis youth committee.
Hitler dispensed with these leaders, but they
are now being added again and it is believed
they will do much to add coordination and
content to local youth programs.

In summary it can be said that on the
whole the picture regarding German youth
is encouraging and many hopeful signg exist
to give us confidence that the policies are
sound and our goal for German youth, which
essentially is their reeducation and guidance
toward democratic ideals, is being achieved.

Relief Parcel Program

A total of 3,065,000 gift relief parcels
from the United States to the US, British,
and French Zones of Germany have been
received for distribution through normal
postal channels during 1946. Approximately
2,074,000 parcels were distributed in the
US Zone, 848,000 in the British Zone, and
143,000 in the French Zone.

This service was authorized for the US
Zone on 1 June and extended to the British
Zone in August and the French Zone in
September. The contents of these parcels
are limited to non-perishable foodstuffs,
clothing, soap, lawful medical supplies and
similar items for the relief of human suf-
fering and to a maximum weight of 11
pounds.

--- Page 37 ---
REVIEW OF 1946 (Continued from page 16)

all German teachers now employed in Zone
and Berlin Sector consitst of relatively un-
trained persons from other professions hired
to overcome acute shortage of qualified
teachers.

Studies of I. G. Farben control and dis-
tribution of nitrogen fertilizer reveal 15
international nitrogen agreements extending
beyond Europe into North and South
America, restricting world trade in this
commodity.

Permission granted for officially recogniz-
ed Land-level political parties to print
twice-monthly party periodicals.

German farmers who wilfully limit deliv-
eries of produce are subject to penalties.
such as fines, being barred from buying and
selling, or even being replaced on their
farms by trustees.

Rothschild library returned to France.

At special referendum in US, British, and
French Sectors of Berlin, 19,526 vote
against immediate merger of Social De-
mocratic and Communist Parties, and
2,937 for it. Referendum not held in Soviet
Sector.

APRIL

Food ration for normal consumer in US
Zone cut from 1,550 to 1,275 calories daily.

Lack of steel and aluminum limits milk
can production, tending to confine distribu-
tion of milk to rural areas.

Ten of 14 airfields in Greater Hesse and
other former Wehrmacht areas throughout
Zone released for farm production.

MG Regulations amended to democratize
internal organization of political parties by
requiring notice of party meetings and con-
ventions, annual elections of officiers by
members, and nomination of candidates for
public offices by party meetings and con-
ventions, :

Permission granted for reopening Law
Faculty of the University of Munich.

Sixty-five percent of expellees received in
Zone are jobless, homeless, and without
sufficient clothing.

34

Three hundred art works, including 15th
century masterpiece by Roger van Leyden
returned to the Netherlands.

Agreement reached to supply the United
Kingdom with 100,000 cubic meters of
lumber valued at 2,000,000 dollars during
third quarter of 1946. ;

Twelve thousand tons of wheat lent from
MG stocks to relieve acute food shortage in
French Zone.

Dehydrated potatoes from surplus US
Army stocks issued to supplement short
potato stocks in Berlin and deficit areas in
US Zone.

All ordinary German courts, including
highest authorized appellate courts (Ober-
landesgerichte), opened and functioning.

To celebrate first Passover in Germany
since 1939, 50 grams each of Kosher butter
and sugar issued as an addition to the ration
of each person in Jewish desplaced persons
camps.

Authorization granted for organizing
youth activities up to Land level whereas
former regulations limited such activities to
the Kreise.

Extensive shop stewards system covering
several hundred thousand workers in Zone
supplanted by works councils as provided
by Works Council Law.

Five hundred thousand units of insulin
and 800,000 grain and flour sacks released
from US Army stocks for German civilian
use.

Aggressive action taken to solve farm
labor shortage. In Bavaria members of
farm families not needed for work on their
own farms are being allocated to other
farms needing labor. In Wuerttemberg-
Baden women used as compulsory labor to
plant sugar beets, and priority for discharge
of prisoners of war requested for labor in
sugar beet field. Arrangements made to
train refugees in farm work and to house
them on the farms.

Frankfurter Neue Presse with 50,000 cir-
culation is second newspaper in Frankfurt

--- Page 38 ---
and 32nd licensed in Zone. Total circula-
tion of licensed newspapers is 4,181,814.

Soviet vessel carrying equipment from
the Deschimag shipyards left Bremen for
the USSR. This constituted the first Soviet
reparations sailing from a German port.

US Army orientation film “Here is Ger-
many” exhibited to German audiences as
American view of German character regard-
ing latters’ proclivity for aggressive wars.

German border police completely uniform-
ed and armed with carbines and revolvers.

Of 1,458,258 Fragebogen received. begin-
ning of denazification program, 1,320,000,
or 91 percent processed and action taken on
1,269,000 cases. 933,000 individuals retain-
ed or employed and 337,000 removed. 810
or less than one-half of one percent of
mandatory removal cases being retained in
office,

Interim directive promulgated for crea-
ting clemency board of specialists to operate
throughout the three Laender to review
periodically all cases of personnel: serving
prison sentences.

Elections held for Kreistage. Approxi-
mately 71.6 percent of eligible voters go to
the polls. Christian Socialist Union leads in
Bavaria, Social Democratic Party in Greater
Hesse, and Christian Democratic Union in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Proclamation issued requiring Germans
to declare looted property in their possession.

First shipment of international mail from
the United States destined for distribution
within occupied Germany arrived
Bremerhaven.

in

MAY

German border police moved back one
kilometer from US zonal boundaries in order
to prevent clashes with armed border patrols
of Allied nations. .

At second conference of zonal trade union
leaders in Frankfurt, plans made for pro-
ceeding with federation of unions on Land
basis.

Few violations of MG directives found
during search for objectionable books in
Bavaria.

35

Films being shown in US Zone include
“Abe Lincoln in Illinois,’ “Young Tom
Edison,” “Madame Curie,” and “So Proudly
We Hail.”

MG approves plan for farm production
through 1949 aimed at making Germany
self-sufficient.

First basic Bessemer steel manufactured
in Germany since May 1945 is produced in
Zone.

Total of 28,238 students enrolled in in-
stitutions of higher learning in the Zone. ~

Greater Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden
have received about one-third and Bavaria
about one-tenth of their quota of expellees.

About 241,000 young persons are enrolled
in youth activity groups, divided thus: Ba-
varia 81,000, Greater Hesse 75,000, Wuert-
temberg-Baden 85,000. Approximately 2,545
youth groups in Zone.

Collection of more than 2,000 gold coins
valued at five million dollars recovered in
Bavaria. They had been confiscated by
Nazis from 12 Austrian and Czechoslovakian
monastaries and formed part of Hitler’s gold
reserve.

Control Council signs laws increasing
taxes on all tobacco products, alcohol, and
matches. Order No. 4 concerning confisca-
tion of literature and material of Nazi or
militaristic nature approved.

Denazification registration forms (Melde-
bogen) completed in all three Laender.

Student-body
established in all secondary
Greater Hesse.

Finance School established at Langer to
train finance personnel is helping to cope
with problem of personnel shortage.

For persons not raising their food approx-
imately one kilogram of fish per ration
period assured by purchase of fish from
Norway and Denmark.

City councils elected in all 40 Stadtkreise.
Vote was 82.7 percent of registered voters.
CDU (CSU in Bavaria) polls 38.8 percent,
SPD 37.1 percent and KPD 9.1 percent.

Permanent liaison between German
economics and food and agriculture adminis-

self-government councils
schools in

--- Page 39 ---
trations in British and US Zones being
established.

Coordinating Committee authorizes Kom-
mandatura to recognize SPD city committee
and SED throughout Berlin.

Fourteen thousand tons of food released
from excess US Army stocks for German
civilian use. Forty-five thousand tons of
food imported from the United States for
German consumption.

JUNE

New responsibilities including distribution
of imported food and POL, formation and
implementation of production programs, and
movement of goods in interzonal trade, rest
with German officials in US Zone, subject
only to MG periodic review.

Paintings by Rembrandt, Renoir, and
Gericault are among 705 art objects return-
ed to France from Munich.

Three-power agreement reached that all
banks in three western zones free to choose
their own giro system or correspondents
through which interzonal cashless payments
can be effected.

In accordance with MG policy of giving
authorities greater responsibilities, about
RM 7,500,000,000 worth of property taken
into custody by US MG authorities in Ger-
many turned over to administrative agencies
in Germany for safeguarding and ad-
ministering.

United Press and Associated Press granted
US Treasury Department licenses under
“Trading with Enemy Act” to engage in
transactions essential to collection and
distribution of news and news pictures in
Germany.

Youth programs presented over all sta-

tions of . US-controlled South German
network. Reports from field indicate radio
programs for schools are increasingly
successful.

Agreement concluded with CARE repre-
sentative whereby individual food packages
from US donors to be distributed in US
Zone to designated individuals.

Coordinating Committee signs Directive

36

No. 31 establishing principles concerning
establishment of federations of trade unions.

Commenting on completion of preliminary
drafts of proposed constitutions in all three
Laender, Deputy Military Governor tells
Laenderrat that these constitutions “must
contain provisions for the three states to
cede such powers as are necessary to a
federal government when it is established”
and that “in the absence of the establish-
ment of a central government provisions
must be made to cede powers to the Council
of Ministers-President.

Laenderrat adopted new statute approved
by MG to establish Directorate meeting at
least once a week and making final decisions
on matters requiring immediate action not
involving basic principles, and on committee
proposals which do not involve basic prin-
ciples and are not of major importance.

Seed imports for 1946-47 requirements
total about three million dollars. For next
season 248,000 more hectares of crops are
planned than in 1945.

Completed action sheets indicate that there
are no persons in the entire US Zone in

“non-employment mandatory” category
who have been retained contrary to
directives.

Ration for normal consumer in US Zone
raised to average of 1,225 calories daily.
Persons in cities over 20,000 population
receive larger ration than those in smaller
cities or rural areas due to latters’ proximity
to growing areas. :

Information Control authorities encourage
German licensed press strongly to oppose any
attempt by German governmental officials
to suppress news or to interfere with opera-
tions of a strong press built along democ-
ratic lines.

German economics officials from US and
Soviet Zones meeting in Berlin agree on
specific items for interzonal trade. Program
estimated to provide 50,000 persons with
employment in US Zone.

Quadripartite agreement reached to com-
bat rumors in each of the four zones by
providing factual information about other

--- Page 40 ---
zones on radio and in press.

Control Council promulgates Law No. 30
increasing sugar tax.

Even taking into account removal of
agricultural subsidies, it is estimated that
over-all cost of living at legal prices has
not advanced more than ten percent since
August 1945 in the US Zone.

Larger percentage of harvested potatoes
delivered to urban consumers in US Zone
than in any of past three years.

Salvage from captured German explosives
of an estimated five million dollars worth
of nitrogen as ammonium nitrate begun at
Dynamit AG in Bavaria.

JULY

Deputy Military Governor approves
general amnesty for persons born after
1 January 1919 who were not classifed as
Class I or II offenders under the German
Law for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism.

Allied Control Council Law No. 31 pro-
hibits establishment of police bureaus or
police agencies of a political nature.

US Zone estimated net pithead production
from January through June is 1,500,000
tons of brown coal and 670,000 tons of pech
coal, representing 70 percent and 90 percent
respectively of 1938 production rates. Total
German estimated net pithead production is
30,500,000 tons of hard coal and 76,500,000
tons of brown coal, roughly 40 percent and
78 percent of the 1938 production rate.

In Frankfurt, the Radio Network Control
Office begins its function of distributing re-
corded and printed material originated by
the US State Department for use by stations
of the US-controlled South German network.

About 7,500,000 persons in the US Zoné
including farmers and working members of
their families, are covered by occupational
accident insurance, with approximately
150,000 persons drawing benefits,

Approximately 27 percent of all employed
persons in the Zone, excluding those in
agriculture, forestry, and domestic service,
are enrolled in trade unions,

Shipments of food imported from the

37

United States increase to around 6,400 tons
per day.

All Laender instructed to prohibit forma-
tion of political parties and political groups
of expellees and refugees since US policy
requires that expellees be absorbed as in-
tegral parts of the German population hav-
ing equal rights with them.

Dr. Anton Pfeiffer, former Bavarian
secretary of state, appointed Bavarian
minister for political liberation, succeeding
Heinrich Schmitt, resigned.

Pending four-power agreement on the
interzonal exchange of newspapers, distribu-
tion of American-licensed newspapers to
other occupation zones of Germany stopped
and other zonal commanders requested to
halt flow of German newspapers into the
US Zone.

German are producing at
57 percent of the production permitted under
the level of indutsry plan. Production in
the US Zone is 70 percent on the same
basis.

OMGUS field officers instructed to deal
more severely with violations of MG Or-
dinance No, 1, concerning unlawful wearing
of uniform of Allied forces.

First ton-and-half truck rolls off assembly
line at Opel plant in Greater Hesse.

steelworks

Land constitutional assemblies meet in
Munich, Stuttgart, and Wiesbaden to begin
drafting constitutions for each Land.

The number of gainfully employed in the
Zone rises to 5,475,000, highest for any
month since occupation.

The Economics Directorate agrees
dissolve the Kaiser Wilhelm Society.

Sufficient leather to manufacture half a
million shoe uppers withdrawn from export
as fine leather goods, and assigned to the
manufacture of shoes.

to

Stocks of seeds on hand plus estimated
seed production is insufficient for 1947 re-
quirements, so 7,200 metric tons of seed
requested from the United States,

Invitation issued by US member to other
members of Allied Control Council to join
in US Government proposal for adminis-

--- Page 41 ---
trative agreements in the fields of finance,
transportation, communications, industry,
and foreign trade for the purpose of effect-
ing a unified economics policy with the
zones which would desire such an arrange-
ment. British member accepts invitation.

First trade
Bavarian MG.

A complete oil-cracking plant valued at
two million dollars returned to France.

AUGUST

First Germany-wide radio hookup since
end of hostilities made in all four zones for
broadcast of German heavyweight boxing
championship in Hamburg. |

Heinrich Zinnkann appointed minister of
interior for Greater Hesse in place of Hans
Veneday, expelled by his political party for
disciplinary reasons.

Thirty-five million dollars in gold and
bullion looted from Budapest by the Nazis
returned to Hungary.

Laenderrat approves establishment of
economics council to eperate under Direct-
orate for coordination and supervision of
interzonal and foreign trade, price control,
and other economic matters.

Americans participate in German discus-
sion groups for purpose of orienting Ger-
mans to democratic ideas.

First elections of works councils in fac-
tories and offices in Zone take place in
Greater Hesse in accordance with Control
Council Law No. 22.

German labor offices successfully fulfill
all but very small number of requests for
harvest labor.

German officials from US and British
Zones establish at Minden joint register for
publication of economic laws and decrees,
and establish committee for coordinating
commercial law in both zones.

Nearly four and half million metal food
cans a month are being made in the Zone.
This is sufficient to preserve the season’s
fruit and vegetable harvest.

Seventy percent of the war factories in
the Zone are destroyed, dismantled, or in
the process of destruction.

union paper licensed by

38

The bread ration in the US Zone for
normal consumers increased by one-third to
offset decreases in fat, skim milk, and potato
rations.

Soviet authorities lend US Zone officials
for microfilming voluminous files of proj-
ected Linz museum planned by Hitler. This
is to aid in identifying many art objects
found in the US Zone.

First youth commission (Jugendring) in a
German city organized in Wiesbaden,
representing 11 youth groups, for the pur-
pose of planning youth activities.

Seven teachers colleges in Wuerttemberg-
Baden to graduate approximately 900
teachers next year in special one-year course
to help alleviate current shortage.

Displaced persons as well as German labor
being used in dismantling three and half
plants in Zone approved as advance repara-
tions to Soviet Union. Work is dhead of
schedule.

Group of American educators arrive in
Berlin for month study and report on MG
grogram for German education.

First Land trade union federation, “Freier
Gewerkschaftsbund Hessen,” formed pro-
visionally in Greater Hesse.

No products of former I. G. Farben plants
currently sold anywhere to bear Farben
name or trade mark.

Ten trucks sent to northern Italy to bring
back fruit given to the US Zone by the
Italian Government. '

Bill of Rights of Bavarian Constitution
draft contains 50 articles dealing with fun-
damental rights and duties of the individual,
marriage and family life, education and
schools, religion and religious organizations.

Twenty-two thousand tons of food import-
ed from the United States arrive during
month for German use.

SEPTEMBER

US Secretary of State James F, Byrnes
makes a clear statement on policy, plans,
and progress in Germany in speech at Stutt-
gart. Reactions are highly favorable and
complimentary.

Basic principles of economic unity of US

--- Page 42 ---
and British Zones and bizonal committees for
implementation of these principles in the
field of food and agriculture, finance, com-
munications, transportation, and trade and
industry, approved by Bipartite Board
composed of the Deputy Military Governors
of the two zones.

The youth programs of MG and US Army
intensified.

US-controlled radio station, supplanting
the Drahtfunk (wired radio broadcast) in
Berlin, begins, providing more thorough dis-
semination of American programs in metro-
politan area.

To avoid jeodardizing the solvency of
banks, it is directed that no Office of Military
Government will direct transfer of funds
when such transfer might adversely affect
the position of the bank, without prior co-
ordination with the Finance Division.

Land trade union federation in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden founded at convention attended
by 165 voting delegates from all 15 recogniz-
ed Land industrial unions.

More than 1,000 ikons returned to the
Soviet Union.

Fifteen ammunition dumps turned over to
Land economics ministers for chemical sal-
vage program.

Military Government for Bremen (US) as-
sumes control of naval port operations in
Bremerhaven-Wesermuende,

Absenteeism from transportation repair
plants reaches 31 percent in one week largely
due to harvesting crops, illness, and lack of
shoes and work clothing.

Any German laws in effect or to be en-

acted relating to German civil service status
of government employees or officials shall
also apply to German civilians employed by
US Military Government.
. The Committee of Coal Experts in pre-
liminary report to Coordinating Committee
recommends certain measures to increase coal
production.

RM 370,000 worth of mechanical toys and
stuffed animals being sent on consignment
to the United States for the Christmas trade.

39

Estimated US Zone nitrogen fertilizier re-
quirements for the year July 1946—June
1947 are 100,000 metric tons, of which about
52,000 can be produced in the Zone or re-
covered from German ammunition.
approves five
permanent uniform postage

Coordinating Committee
designs
stamps,

First reparations from the US Zone to a
western Allied nation consist of 20 tons of
machine tools from the Boehne and Koehle
plant in Wuerttemberg-Baden shipped io
Belgium.

No newspapers, magazines, phamphlets, or
other publications to be imported sold, or
circulated in the US Zone except from zones
where fully reciprocal exchange agreements
have been made. Such agreements reached
with British and French authorities.

Total of 4,783 alien emigrants and 1,940
US repatriates left Germany under US
immigration program.

An unsual radio recording made at a local
denazification board in Frankfurt. On basis
of photostats of various Nazi party docu-
ments, it is demonstrated effectively the im-
possibility for a defendant to conceal member-
ship in various Nazi organizations.

Total of 72 books and phamphlets publish-
ed for children and youth, and 17 youth
periodicals authorized since start of occupa-
tion.

With completion of the inventory of the
Daimler-Benz underground aircraft engine
plant at Neckarelz, Wuerttemberg-Baden, the
evaluation program is ended incolving the
24 plants allocated as advance reparations to
the Soviet Union and western nations.

for

The Daimler-Benz plant at Mannheim
produces three-ton trucks at a rate of 250
to 300 a month,

New German resettlement law provides
that more than 725,000 acres of land in US
Zone will be released from large holdings
for gardens and farms for Germans made
homeless by the war, farmers whose holdings
are too small to operate economically, and
workers in rural areas,

Democratic People’s Party of US Zone

--- Page 43 ---
organized in Stuttgart, is first zonal party to
be formally established.

General Dwight D. Eisenhower; US Army
Chief of Staff, makes first visit to Germany
since he left year before after serving as
Military Governor, praises progress made in
Military Government.

OCTOBER

First important result of US-British bi-
zonal economic merger is restoration of
ration in both zones to 1,550 calories per
day for normal consumers.

Wide publicity on radio and in news-
Papers given the findings and sentencing
of the Nazi war criminals by the Inter-
national Military Tribunal at Nuremberg.
Allied Control Councils refused to alter
sentences.

MG personnel given permission to invite
Germans in official and semiofficial posi-
tions to MG messes or billets as their guests
to discuss business and matters of common
interet in the conduct of their responsibilities.

In order to distribute the potato crop
equitably among US Zone consumers, MG
approves uniform program for cellarage of
125 kilograms of potatoes per capita for
eight-month period.

Forecast of US Zone crop production
indicates that 1946 breadgrain harvest
approximate that of 1945. Potato crop is
smaller but sugar beet crop materially
larger. Poor harvest of edible oilseeds
expected.

German barge service inaugurated between
Berlin and Bremen, thus relieving over-
burdened rail situation.

A conservation plan instituted for in-
dustry to overcome the expected lower sup-
ply of electric power and coal during the
winter.

DEGUSSA, a German gold and silver
smelting plant at Frankfurt, appointed an
agent of the Laenderrat under the export
production program for silverware.

Approximately eighteen and one-half
tons of silver bullion released from the
Foreign Exchange Depository in Frankfurt
as a loan to the silverware fabrication in-

40

dustry.

Germany’s first “Town Meeting of the
Air” inaugurated by Radio Stuttgart.

Movement of Poles volunteering for re-
patriation under the terms of the 60-day
food program begins.

Approval given for establishment pos-
sibly in Frankfurt and Darmstadt of two
community centers by the American Friends
Service Committee under auspices of CRA-
LOG.

MG Policy Instruction No. 3 permits
German-language license newspapers wider
latitude in quoting foreign news sources
and reporting world events.

Catholic Youth Week brings together
largest groups of young people so far as-
sembled in Greater Hesse. Organization
for Catholic youth founded at conference in
Fulda.

New discussion group, Friends of Amer-
ica, organized by Frankfurt University
students.

First youth home under sponsorship of
a US Army unit opened in Berlin-Zehlen-
dorf.

The first direct American import of Leica
cameras since before the war negotiated by
the purchase by a New York company
through the. US Commercial Company of
86,700 dollars worth of cameras.

More than 75 percent of the 95,150 bales
of American cotton received at Bremen ship-
ped to US Zone for processing.

A silver monstrance with jewels and
bowl, property of the Cloister of Brothers
of Charity in Neustadt/Mettau, Czechoslova-
kia, recovered in Nuremberg.

Administrative courts in each of three
Laender formally opened.

Ministers president from US and British
Zones, meeting in Bremen, discuss interzonal
problems and possibility of establishing a
central German authority, establishes com-
mittee to investigate denazification standards
and procedures in the zones with a view
towards adjusting existing defferenzes.

Registration for identity card (Kennkarte)
program completed.

Committee of 16 German textile manufac-

--- Page 44 ---
Extending to the Laenderrat on the
occasion of its first anniversary in October
“an appreciation of the services which
I know you have rendered to the German
people,” the Deputy Military Governor
said:

“You have always represented to the
United States what you believed to be the
will of the German people, you have done
it quietly and without publicity. The
result is that I doubt if the German
people know how well you have repre-
sented them, but in so representing the
German people you have also done your
greatest service to Military Government,
because outside of certain policy measures

which were necessary to enforce, Military
Government has always had the desire to
base its action on the will of the people.
I think that you have always tried to
represent the will of your people, and I
hope that as time progresses the people
whom you have served will also recognize
that fact.

“There is no use in either of us
pretending that the way of an army of
occupation with an occupied people is
one of cordiality and love. However, I
believe that during the past year we have
been able to operate with mutual respect
and a desire to install democratic proc-
esses in Germany.”

turers of US and Soviet Zones arrange in-
ierzonal trade system involving cotton, coal,
finished textiles, and other supplies.

Approximately 880,000 gift relief parcels
from the United States destined for the US
and British Zones arrive in Bremen during
month .

Favorable results of supplemental child
feeding program begin to appear. Average
gains of approximately three pounds record-
ed after four-week operation for 1,500
children in Stutigart. Appitional rations
are from CRAFOG relief supplies.

Kirchliche Hochschule Berlin, sponsored
by Evangelical Church, reopens in US Sec-
tor of Berlin after being closed in’ Nazis
in 1934. Most of 150 theological students
are from Soviet Zone.

Incidence of diphtheria continues to in-
crease in US Zone.

Der Abend licensed as the second news-
paper in the US Sector of Berlin.

A complete planing mill from the Fritz
Mueller plant at Oberesslingen, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, shipped to Hamburg as: the
first reparations to Great Britain from the
US Zone.

Civilian internee enclosures except for
three, turned over to Germans under Theater
Directive of 14 July.

Series of weekly lectures being given 100

4l

German city employees and business persons
by American personnel in Munich on sub-
jects such as “Trade Unions in America”
and “American Economy.”

Newly-licensed Protestant teacher train-
ing school opened at Memminger (Schwa-
ben), Bavaria.

‘Wage increases of not more than 20 per-
cent in coal mining industry throughout
Germany authorized by Allied Control
Council.

Lists of general-purpose equipment, suit-
able for peaceful production, located in 42
war plants in US Zone: forwarded to Co-
ordinating Committee for notification to
Inter-Allied Reparations Agency and Sov-
iet Union.

First barges to move lumber to United
Kingdom leaves Rhine port with load of
1,600 cubic meters.

Berlin municipal elections result in Social
Democratic Party polling 48.7: percent of
all votes cast; Christian Democratic Union
22.1 percent, Socialist. Unity Party 19.8
percent, Liberal’ Democratic Party 9.4
percent.

MG Ordinance No. 7 promulgated . to
provide for establishment, under MG juris-
diction, of military tribunals with power to
try. and punish persons charged with war
crimes, crimes against peace and humanity.

--- Page 45 ---
Drafts of Land constitutions for each of
three Laender of US Zone approved by
MG.

Census of entire population of Germany
as of 29 October started by German and
occupational authorities.

DANA, US-controlled Germany news
agency, licensed and turned over to publish-
ers representing 41 US-licensed German
newspapers, making the agency a coopera-
tively owned and operated German enter-
prise.

Radio Frankfurt’s School of the Air be-
gins operation to help offset textbook short-
age and to supplement school studies in
Greater Hesse.

Schwaekische Volksjugend, one of the
largest youth organizations in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, dissolved by MG for violation
of regulations pertaining to political activ-
ity.

NOVEMBER

The first main department of the Ger-
man economics Administration to function
fully in combined Anglo-American areas is
the price control department with its bi-
partite headquarters at Minden.

The Deputy Military Governor, address-
ing the Laenderrat meeting severely crit-
icized the German denazification tribunals
for their lack of “political will and deter-
mination to punish those who deserve to
be punished.” Describing denazification
as a “must,” of US policy, he stated that
“if the German people are unwilling to do
the job, Military Government can and will
do the job.”

The Laenderrat approved drafts for the
Press Law, Licensing Law for Newspapers
and Magazines, Licensing for Publishers,
Decree concerning Paper Allocations to
Book and Magazine Publishers, Licensing
Law for Producers of Entertainment, and
Expellee Law.

Licensed political parties in US Zone
given permission by MG to hold public
meetings without obtaining prior permission
from MG. .

From VE-Day through October 1946,
releases of US food for German civilian

£2

use in US occupied areas total about
959,000 net long tons.

US Zone coal mines have sufficient work-
ers. ‘

US Army trucks, up to 20 percent of unit
organization equipment, made available
for hauling German farm produce to the
markets before arrival of freezing weather.

Bizonal Executive Committee for Food
and Agriculture is located at Stuttgart
instead of at Bad Kissingen as originally
planned.

Quadripartite agreement reached that
controlling interests in former I. G. Farben
units may not be bought by non-Germans.

Arrangements were concluded for open-
ing of an OMGUS US dollar account with
Denmark’s national bank in Copenhagen.
Opening of these accounts with central banks
in respective countries will materially facil-
itate financing of trade between these coun-
tries and the US Zone.

More than 100 small communities in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden are served by mobile
film units.

Citizenship classes are made compulsory
for all schools in Greater Hesse.

An American-type football game, played
by two German teams, drew 10,000 spec-
tators in Stuttgart.

Military Governor announces special
Christmas commutation of sentences affect-
ing 4,000 prisoners in German institutions
in US areas.

Number of crimes committed by displaced
persons continue to increase in Bavaria.

Total number of operable German trucks
in Zone has risen by more than 35 percent
since first of year and total of operable
passenger cars by 31 percent.

Large industrial plants in the Zone are
bartering their products to other producers
to obtain scarce goods in order to influence
a reduction in labor turnover and increase
productivity.

A prospective German exporter submits
his export offer to his local economics office,
which sends it to the German commissioner
attached to the Laenderrat. The Regional
Government Coordinating Office at Stuttgart

--- Page 46 ---
screens it and if OMGUS approves it, ex-
port. can be made..

Deputy Military Governor announced
that all US-controlled Danube commercial
craft, other than German and Austrian,
would be returned to claimant nations.

Authorized German press and radio cor-
respondents permitted to enter US press
centers to obtain releases.

Approximately 245,000 undernourished
children are receiving supplemental meals
of 400 calories daily through the child
feeding programs in the US Zone.

Constitutions approved and members for
the state legislatures chosen at elections held
in each of the three Laender in the US Zone.

‘Constitutions approved and members for
the state legislatures chosen at elections
held in each of the three Laender in the
US Zone.

Theft of small animals increase in Wuert-
temberg-Baden.

OMGUS Legal Division considers that
only persons subject to USFET Military
orders and circulars are those under direct
administrative jurisdiction of USFET, since
circulars are not translated into German,
and are distributed only through Army chan-
nels. ;

Approximately 50,000 tons of bread-
grains, flour, and oats lent to British to help
relieve food shortage in British-occupied
areas.

DECEMBER

A German bizonal joint committee on civil
service approved. '

Newsprint allocations to licensed news-
papers in US-occupied areas cut 10 percent
because of shortage.

Appointment: of Land: ministers of justice
and all other personnel in the German ad-
ministration of justice no longer requires
prior MG approval.

Special extra meat, sugar, cocoa, and
chocolate rations are authorized for the
Christmas holidays.

The 11,211 US Army vehicles in use since
4 November to transport. harvest crops and
fuel wood for the German economy in the

43

US Zone have hauled approximately 49,755
metric tons.

Cost of living index submitted by: the
Laenderrat shows increases of 15 percent
during 12 months ending 30 September.

Industrial production in US Zone has at
least doubled during past 12 months.

First ten film production licenses issued to
German producers in the US-occupied areas.

Christmas parties conducted by Army
units, American dependents and American
civilian employees for DP, and German chil-
dren throughout US-occupied areas.

Anglo-American agreement for economic
merger of the US and British Zones of Ger-
man signed in Washix-zton.

New Central Bank Law for the three US
Zone Laender proclaimed. The law abolishes
the former Reichsbank in the US Zone and
substitutes in each of the Laender a banker’s
bank fulfilling functions of a central bank,
insofar as possible at present.

Military Governor in Christmas address to

the German people announces anmesty for

approximately 800,000 “small” Nazis.

OMGUS has requested the Laenderrat to
grant, within established priorities, all pos-
sible ‘aid to DANA for obthaining services
and building materials needed for replace-
ment of transmitter facilities recently des-
troyed by fire at Bad Vilbel.

Supreme Administrative Courts were reopen-
ed on 13 December at Munich for Bavaria,
and on 14 December at Stuttgart for Wuert-

' temberg-Baden.

Since the beginning of the operation of
Law for Liberation from National Socialism
and. Militarism on 1 June, 219,34¢ charges
have been filed, and 146,161 cases have been
completed.

A bizonal German working group for coal
is now funtioning at Duesseldorf advising on
matters, relating to production, such as hous-
ing and social insurance.

Frankfurt Main Station is now handling
an average of 300 trains daily with 45,000
commuters using the trains for transportation
to and from employment. beond

--- Page 47 ---
MILITARY

STATION LIST

GOVERNMENT

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
~ COMMANDING OFFICER ;

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co

*S-10 SK See
*S-21 LK Boeblingen
#§-23 LK. Esslingen
*§-29 LK Ludwigsburg
*§-30 LK Waiblingen
*§-50 LK Backnang
*S-53 LK Leonberg
*S-55 LK Nuertingen
*§-58 LK Vaihingen

*M-43 SK/LK Heidelberg
*M-16 SK/LK Mannheim
*M-89 LK Buchen

*M-90 LK Mosbach

*M-91 LK Tauberbischofsheim
*M-92 LK Sinsheim

*K-47 SK/LK Karlsruhe
*K-46 SK/LK Pforzheim
*K-87 LK Bruchsal

*H-28 SK/LK Heilbronn
*H-22 LK Crailsheim
*H-26 LK Schwaebisch Hall
*H-52 LK Kuenzelsau
*H-54 LK Mergentheim
*H-56 LK Oehringen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area

Stutt;
Boeblin,
Vedio
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Leonberg
Nuertingen
Vaihingen

Heidelberg Area
Heidelberg

Mannheim

Buchen

Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
Sinsheim

: Karlsruhe Area
Karlsruhe

Pforzheim
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area

Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schwaebisch Hall
Kuenzelsau

Bad Mergentheim
QOehringen ©

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen F A Keating
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Mr Sumner Sewall a i

Lt Col M O Edwards
Ist Lt J B Clifford

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst
Capt N Semaschko
Capt E E Oja

Maj F A Hubbard
Capt R Forrest
Capt S P Giunta
Maj J F Capell
Capt A Smi

Lt Col C L Jackson

CH Rue
CA Wright
I D Claxton

Capt N W Barber
KR

lessner

Lt Col W T Burt ©’ |

Maj RH Stimson
Capt R C Stenson

Lt Col C H West
Ist Lt R E Alley
Capt C S Keena
Capt T E Griswold
Capt B- V Bloom: : +

Capt G H Caple

--- Page 48 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

*U-25 LK Goeppingen

*U-11 SK/LK Ulm

*U-20 LK Aalen’

*U-24 LK Schwaebisch Gmuend
*U-27 LK Heidenheim

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep): :
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Huenfeld
*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Buedingen

* Liaison and Security

Goeppingen Area
Goeppingen
Ulm

Aalen
Schwaebisch Gmuend
Heidenheim

LAND GREATER HESSE

Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Ruedesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Huenfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Buedingen

45

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Lt Col A G Spitz
Maj M L Hoover
Maj C H Pallette
Maj R Lascoe
Maj L H Kyle

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Ist Lt Irving Ittner
Capt B A Sturdevan

Maj G C Sola

Maj R N Eddy
Maj D Easterday
Capt C Lenneville
Ist Lt J C Uhland
Capt T E Faircloth
Capt R E Brandt
Capt N N Nagy
Capt P H Olson
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Maj L Brown

Capt J W Francis
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt S Borda

Lt Col C H Reed
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Maj J Connelly
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E E Covell
Maj H Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H Potter

Lt Col A Skarry
Capt N C Neider
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj. A Gill

Capt S Kershaw
Capt C P Johnson

--- Page 49 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Commandant
Hq & Sv Company

Co A

*A-210 SK/LK Wurzburg
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen
*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Bruckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemunden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*A-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt
*A-339 LK Konigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil-Gov Begt
(APO 170)

Munich
Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt -a. d. Saale
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt C R Argo
Maj C E Perry

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C. Morgan
Maj S P Sussell
Maj L F Dunn

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt Col M W Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj G C Jernigin
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Maj R_C Gesell
Capt G G Brock
Maj J S. Sullivan
Capt V R: Hurst
Maj R J Holmes
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt S E Witty
Capt L K Owens
Capt T F Griffin
Maj A C McIntyre
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt L D Jaeger
Capt J A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nurnberg
*B-222 SK/LK Bamberg
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreuth
*B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 Neustadt & Coburg
*B-226 Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Furth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
SK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamber,
Bayreuth _
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz

46

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J C Barnet
Lt Col S M Guild

Lt Col F Robie

Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund

Maj H L Woodall

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott

Maj F W Crimp
Maj C T King
Capt H V Moore
Maj F Meszar

Capt H G Stamatis

--- Page 50 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*B.256 LK Munchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuhl
*B-262 LK LEichstatt
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf

*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila

*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Munchberg
Rehau
‘Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Herzbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Maj R C Anderson
Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H Zurn

Maj A S Adams
Capt R T Towle
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Capt C W Collier
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj F C Smith
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
Maj F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D

*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg

*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
a. d. Wald

*D-243 SK/LK Passau

*D-244 SK/LK Amberg

*D-245 SK/LK Landshut

*D-246 SK/LK Straubing

*D-274 LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach

*D-301 LK Deggendorf

*D-302 LK Eggenfelden

*D-303 LK Grafenau

*D-304 LK Kehlheim

*D-305 LK Landau a. d. Isar

*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen

*D-307 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen

*D-309 LK Vilsiburg

*D-310 LK Wolfstein

*D-349 LK Kemnath

*D-350 LK Nabburg

*D-351 LK Oberviechtach

*D-352 LK Riedenberg

*D-352 LK Vohenstrauss

*D-353 LK Roding

*D-354 LK Waldmuenchen

*D-355 LK Beilngries

*D-356 LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.

*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

*D-375 LK Bogen

*D-377 LK Dingolfing

*D-378 LK Griesbach

*D-379 LK Kotzting

*D-380 LK Mainburg

*D-381 LK Mallersdorf

*D-382 LK Rottenburg

*D-383 LK Viechtach

*D-385 LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunber,
pecbenbst
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kehlheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

47

Lt Col O D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj R E Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek

Lt Col J R Hector
Capt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Crowley
Maj E O Carlson
Capt LR. Mariels
Maj G E Griffin
Capt R O Woodward
Maj H A Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt A J Harwood
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickham
Capt N Ugland

Lt Col G M Foster
Maj R B Swatash

Ist Lt G L. Thomas
Capt R N McWhorter
Maj D L O’Roark
Maj I G Shackelford
Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Maj B B Coullahan
Maj L P Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj E Fichter

Capt A G Albert
Maj R T Coykendall
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson Jr
Capt C G Dansby
Maj J J Maher Jr
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones

Maj R E Levy

Maj J F Rey

Ist Lt K L Miller Jr

--- Page 51 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

CoE
*E-213 SK/LK Munich
*E-231 SK/LK Freising
*E-232 LK Miesbach
*E-233 LK Traunstein
¥*E-234 LK Altoetting ~
*E-235 SK/LK Rosenheim
*E-236 LK Garmisch-
Partenkirchen
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt
*E-280 LK Erding
*E-281 LK Laufen
*E-282 LK Muhldorf
*E-283 LK Wasserburg
*E-284 LK Toelz
*E-285 LK Aibling
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*E-287 LK Lansdberg
¥E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 LK Starnberg
*E-290 LK Weilheim
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden
*E-361 LK Ebersberg
¥*E-362 LK Aichach
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-367 Dachau
*E-368 Schongau

Co G

*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg
*G-239 LK Dillingen
*G-240 LK Neu Ulm
*G-241 LK Sonthofen
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth
*G-293 LK Gunzberg
*G-294 LK Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 LK Memmingen
*G-296 LK Mindeleheim
*G-297 LK Neuberg
*G-298 LK Nordlingen
*G-299 LK Fussen

*G-300 LK Krumbach
*G-369 LK Ilertissen!
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren
*G-372 LK Wertingen
*G-373 LK Friedberg
*G-374 LK Schwabmunchen ~

Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
‘Wesermuende Detachment

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Garmisch

Ingolstadt
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz
Aibling
Fuerstenefeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen

Neu Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwoerth
Gunzber,

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

BERLIN SECTOR
(APO 755)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

Bremen
Wesermuende

48

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col J H Kelly
Maj L R Da

Capt W A Borys
Capt V L Thom
Capt C A Larimer
Lt Col E Keller

Lt Col R T Shelby

Lt Col J A Crewe
Maj C A Brown
Capt C J Wardle
Maj J J Posten
Capt D Root

Maj A O Froede
Maj E J Newmeyer
Ist Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein
Maj H E Reed
Maj C E Carlsen
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj W W Perham
Capt E J Pennetto
Lt G R Clark

Capt H J Bierman
1st Lt J A Walker
Capt E E Bird

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R J Paul

»Maj H E Howlett

Maj J E Rhea

Maj R E Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Maj M G Norum
Capt S D Lubin

1st Lt M W Toepfer
Capt L A Proper
Maj H M Sebastian
Maj B Peshmalyan
Capt J N Urtes

Capt H V Worthington
Capt F W Guzak
Maj S H Darragh
Capt J M Woodwart
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Mr T F Dunn
Lt Col L S Diggs