--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 76 /20 JANUARY 1947

BIZONAL CONFERENCE

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR

HOMBERG

BIEDEN~ )
ZIEGENHAIN

el

ALSFELD

FRANKENBERG |

GIESSEN LAUTERBACH)

OBER &
LAHNKREIS

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM

MOSBACH

GRAILSHEIM
HEILBRONN

~

ONBER:
eg : WAIBLINGE!
e GMUND

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

0
INFORMATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Property Ordered Forfeited or Confiscated by Military
Government Courts Soe ee ee

Care and Preservation of Supplies and Equipment
Historical Program of the US Forces, European Theater

Military Government — Germany — United States Zone —
Ordinance No. 9 ‘Motor Vehicle Speed Limits.” .

Cessation of Hostilities

Unauthorized Movement of Governmental Household
Furnishing .

New Form for Liaison and Security Offices Intelligence
Report .

Security Courier Service .

New War Department Leave Policy .

AG 386 GDS-AGO
20 Nov 1946, USFET

AG 400 GDS-AGO
28 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 314.7 HIS-AGO
31 Dec 1946, USFET

AG 010.6 (LD)
4 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 387 (AG)
8 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 414 (AG)
10 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 380.01 (Dl)
11 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 311.4 (AG)
13 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 210.711 (PO)
13 Jan 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Byers

BIZONAL CONFERENCE. — The picture on
this week's cover shows a meeting of the Bi-
partite Economic Control Group held in Minden,
Germany, to discuss problems of the solid tuels
supply tor the occupied area of the US and
Sritish Zones for January 1947. See “Bipartite
_. Economic Centro! Group" on page 14 for
“other pictures of activity at Minden.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

4 internment Camps was prepared by the Public

Safety Branch, 1A & C Division, OMGUS. It
describes conditions in the eleven civilian intern-
ment enclosures maintained in the US for the
detention of Germans in automatic arrest cate-
gories.

Dr. Hans Jaeger, Chief of the Textbook Section,
Education and Religious Affairs Branch, {A & C
Division, OMGUS, prepared New Textbooks
for German Schools. The article is an account
of the efforts being made by MG and German
civilian authorities to provide adequate textbooks
for the Zone's educational institutions.

Tuberculosis in the US Zone was written
by Lt. Col. E. J. Dehne, Chief of the Preven-
_ tive Medicine Section, Public Health Branch,
- lA & C Division, OMGUS. Before joining

_ OMGUS, Lt. Col. Dehne was executive officer,
“> Has. ECAD Medical Group, in which capacity
he supervised public health activities in liberated
and occupied territories.

The Office of the Personnel Officer, OMGUS,
supplied the material for Indigenous Per-
“sonnel Office. The article describes the work
-of the agency which is responsible for the
40,000 German civilians employed by the
Army in Berlin.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
Internment Camps
Tuberculosis in the US Zone
Indigenous Personnel Office
Publishers Questions Answered
New Textbooks for German Schools

Bipartite Economic Control Group
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

11
12
14

16
20
22

--- Page 7 ---
leven civilian internment enclosures in

the US Zone of Germany, formerly
maintained by US forces for the detention
of Germans in the automatic arrest cate-
gories, have now been handed over to Ger-
man authorities for direct administration;
war criminals and others specifically want-
ed by US authorities have been transferred
to Dachau and will remain under US custody.
At the projected rate of trial by denaziffca-
tion tribunals established or being establish-
ed in the German-operated enclosures, each
of the approximately 45,000 internees cur-
rently detained will have been tried by the
end of 1947, and either sentenced or ac-
quitted.

On 13 July 1946, USFET directed the
transfer of these enclosures and the inter-
nees, with the exception noted above, to the
German Ministers for Political Liberation
for administration, and for the processing of
the internees in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Law for Liberation from Na-
tional Socialism and Militarism, which was
passed in identical form by the three Laen-
der in the US Zone on 5 March 1946. This
is the law which provides for denazification
by the Germans themselves.

In the eleven enclosures are interned those
who have been arrested because of member-

INTERNMENT

CAMPS

ship in the four organizations which the In-
ternational Military Tribunal found to be
criminal — the SS, SD, Gestapo, and Leader-
ship Corps — and. also those who were
members of the SA, the Reich ‘Cabinet, and
the German General Staff. Most of the au-
tomatic arrestees in the enclosures will be
charged as Major Offenders and Offenders.
All internees will be processed by the en-
closure Tribunals (Spruchkammern) before
being released or sentenced to a work camp.
Exceptions have been made in the case of
persons so ill or disabled that medical ap-
proval can be obtained for their release for
trial by a local Tribunal outside the en-
closure.

GERMAN RESPONSIBILITY

German denazification officials of the Min-
istries for Political Liberation of the three
Laender are solely responsible for the ad-
ministration of the enclosures and the trial
of those interned there. Military Govern-
ment interests itself in the enclosures only
to the same extent as in other government
operations conducted by the Germans, ex-
ercising the functions of liaison, observation,
consultation, and inspection., In discharging
its responsibilities with respect to inspection, ©
it reviews all the cases which are tried in
the enclosures, reports upon the’ progress of

--- Page 8 ---
View of the barracks at the Ludwigsburg Internment Camp, one of
the eleven enclosures operated by the Germans in the US Zone.

the trials, and evaluates the administration of
the enclosures.

The present capacity of the enclosures is
about 51,000. Although those currently
detained number only approximately 45,000,
it is estimated that when all tribunal cases
in the US Zone have been tried, more per-
sons will be sentenced to hard labor than
can be confined in these enclosures. This
will probably necessitate an increase in the
capacity of the present enclosures; in addi-
tion, other camps are being constructed near
future work projects. Already work is under
way on three such camps at Stuttgart, one
at Munich, and one at Kassel.

LARGEST ENCLOSURE AT DARMSTADT

The largest enclosure under German ad-
ministration is the one at Darmstadt, which
houses 11,000 internees. Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Bavaria have five enclosures
each. Latest available figures showed that
27,000 former members of the SS and 16,000
members of the Leadership Corps were in-
terned in the enclosures. The remaining in-
ternees were practically all members of the
other automatic arrest categories.

Although the directive implementing the
transfer of the enclosures was promulgated
early in July, the multiplicity of details in-

Signal Corps Photo

volved in such an operation resulted in the
transfer actually being made only within
the last three months. Careful inspection
was necessary to make certain that the Ger-
mans taking over would be able to main-
tain security. Supplies had to be provided
to sustain the enclosures for a period of two
months until the Germans could put their
own supply system into effect. Arrange-
ments had to be made to clothe guards and
provide weapons and medical equipment
through American supply sources.

LOW ESCAPE RATE

Despite a shortage of well-trained guards
and new administrative personnel, the escape
rate during November and December was
less than one-fourth of one percent per
month. There was a total of 200 escapes
from among the 45,000 internees. The en-
closures now have 3,000 guards, three-quar-
ters of estimated requirements.

Each enclosure is supervised by a camp
leader (Lagerleiter) who is aided by non-
Nazi employees and certain internees, re-
garded as “trusties,’ who had been used
in the same capacity when the enclosures
were under US control. At Darmstadt, a
US MG officer and a staff of MG employees
are stationed in the enclosure to discharge

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 9 ---
TUBERCULOSIS

IN THE US ZONE

he high rate of tuberculosis in Germany

today is a direct result of the Nazi
regime’s neglect of fundamental safeguards
of public health. Under the Nazis there
existed no program of tuberculosis control,
with the result that many afflicted persons
had not received proper treatment for
several years. They were urged to work, de-
spite the fact that they were suffering from
the disease, so that no man-hours would be
lost in building up the Nazi war machine.
The majority of German youth was not
afforded routine X-ray examinations because
the procedure was considered too expensive.

In 1933 Germany had been among the
countries with a low tuberculosis death rate;
but the prevalence of the disease rose during
the war and postwar years to such an extent
that German health officials have not yet
been able to compile accurate total estimates.

A view of a ward at the Sana-
torium am Grossen Wannsee, a
tuberculosis hospital in Berlin
Wannsee. Signal Corps Photo

The rise in the incidence of tuberculosis in
Germany following the war conforms to the
nature and past history of this disease,
which, inconspicuous in its spread and de-
velopment, has taken more lives than any
other disease. It flares up whenever the
standard of living drops, economic stress
increases, or public health measures deterio-
rate. During and following the first World
War, a similar increase in tuberculosis de-
veloped throughout Europe.

Tuberculosis is apt to afflict those least
able to obtain and pay for medical treatment;
it disables persons during their period of
greatest productivity and responsibility. It
thrives during periods of economic strain.
Because of its nature and extent, it cannot
be combatied successfully by the individual,
but requires systematized social control. Its
spread is increased by the presence of open

--- Page 10 ---
Exterior of the Sanatorium am Grossen Wannsee which
is being developed into Berlin's largest and most
modern hospital and research institute for tuberculosis.

Signal Corps Photo

cases of the disease circulating among the
population, and by overcrowded living con-
ditions. Also, the present condition of poor
nutrition favors progress and early break-
down into an infectious state in many in-
cipient cases. Other environmental factors,
such as lack of facilities for proper bathing,
washing, and laundering, as well as poor
waste disposal, contribute to the spread of
this disease.

During the 15-month period ending De-
cember 1946, in the US Zone there was a
total of 48,113 new cases of tuberculosis and
11,027 deaths directly attributed to the
disease. Of the new cases, 42,078 were tuber-
culosis of the lung and larynx. Adding these
to the previously reported cases, by Decem-
ber 1946 there were 117,983 known cases
of active tuberculosis of the lung and larynx
in the US Zone, US Sector of Berlin, and
Bremen.

Sufficient hospital beds for tuberculosis
patients must be provided if the further
spread of the disease is to be checked. At
present a serious lack of bed space exists,
and German civil health authorities have
been unable to augment their hospital space
to provide the essential sanatorium and
hospital bed space for treatment of all in-
fectious cases,’

In Wuertiemberg-Baden, a former civilian

internee and prisoner of war hospital which
can accommodate approximately 2,000 open
infectious tuberculosis cases was recently
returned to German control. While this
transfer relieves some of the serious shortage
of hospital bed capacity for tuberculosis,
Wuerttemberg-Baden is still about 5,000
beds short of its total requirements.

By December 1946 there were 18,723 beds
in hospitals for tuberculosis patients in the
Zone, leaving 29,390 cases of active tuber-
culosis (of those reported since September
1945) without space for hospitalization.

FUNCTION OF DISPENSARIES

The tuberculosis dispensaries play an im-
portant part in examination and follow up of
tuberculosis patients. In November alone,
these dispensaries treated 42,887 persons
for tuberculosis, and 76,176 fluoroscopic
examinations for tuberculosis were made. In
addition, large numbers of tuberculosis
patients are receiving treatment and medical
supervision through dispensaries while living
at home.

The German civil health organization is
making serious efforts now to uncover cases
of tuberculosis in the population by conduct-
ing dragnet case-finding programs, especial-
ly aimed toward groups in which a high
incidence is likely to be found. Examination

(Continued on page 25)

--- Page 11 ---
Me: than 40,000 German Civilian Em-
ployees — from laborers to consultants
— today look to one office to solve their job,
food, and health difficulties. The Indigenous
Personnel Office, Berlin Command, first
organized in July 1945 as the German Em-
ployment Office, gradually has assumed this
great responsibility until it now administers
all Germans working for MG in Berlin.
The office’s work has shifted considerably
since those early days when OMGUS was
in desperate need of headquarters and billet
space. At that time Germans were hired
quickly to clean up debris and get offices in

PERSONNEL

working order. Employees were taken from
the German Labor Office (Arbeitsaemter) or
even recruited from the streets. Because of
the haste during those first two months,
workers could not be selected as carefully as
the office now requires. It also was neces-
sary to hire a great number of women to
remove rubble and wash the interiors of
buildings.

When the US Group Control Council, pre-
decessor to OMGUS, transferred to Berlin,
a new problem was created for the employ-
ment office. Office personnel — administra-
tive and clerical — were needed for the

The draftsman and the German consultant pictured below
are among the 40,000 German civilian employees for
which the Indigenous Personnel Office is responsible.

Pheto by PRO, OM@US

--- Page 12 ---
Truman Hall, OMGUS mess for officers and US civilians, is staffed
almost completely by German workers. A group of German em-

Photo by PRO, OMGUS
ployees are pictured above preparing for the noon-day meal.

various divisions of the Headquarters, as
well as domestic help for US personnel.
Fortunately, there were a great number of
prospective employees available in Berlin
for both types of work.

SECURITY CLEARANCE FUNCTION

With the hiring of large numbers of
persons, it soon became evident that the
Indigenous Personnel Office could not con-
fine its activities merely to procuring per-
sonnel. Reorganization was in order so that
the office could take on the added respon-
sibility of handling all German workers
employed by MG authorities in Berlin. To eli-
minate persons with an undesirable political or
criminal background the Security Clearance
Department was formed. This is how it
accomplished its task: The German Labor
Offices were instructed to classify civilians
living in their districts (Bezirke) into the
following categories — 1, victims of fascism;
2, active anti-Nazis; 3, non-Nazis; 4, nominal
Nazis; 5, active Nazis. All persons of the
first three categories were referred to the
German Employment Office for possible

hiring. Persons falling into category 1 were
employed before persons of category 2; the
ones in category 2 received preference over
those in category 3. Employment was not
given to persons falling in categories 4 or 5.
The Security Clearance Department, compos-
ed of interrogators and evaluators thorough-
ly familiar with the background of Nazism
and other phases of German politics,
screened political and criminal background
and investigated the work background of all
applicants for employment.

REVIEW BY OMG BERLIN SECTOR

Today, with the responsibility for denazi-
fication having been turned over to German
civilian authorities, the Indigenous Personnel
Office is relinquishing this clearance func-
tion. However, the Public Safety Branch,
OMG Berlin Sector, reviews the fragebogen
of all German personnel to insure that only
employable persons are hired by Military
Government.

As a health protection for employees and
US personnel, the employment office main-
tains a medical department. All employees

--- Page 13 ---
are given an initial medical examination.
Food handlers and mess employees receive
a physical examination every 30 days. Of-
fice personnel and privately-employed do-
mestic help are also given periodic examina-
tions.

Information on any German employee
working for OMGUS is always available in
the Records Section of the Indigenous Per-
sonnel Office. For every individual there
is assembled a folder containing all records,
papers, correspondence, and essential infor-
mation regarding that person. At a moment’s
notice, the Records Section can look up a
person’s file and gather all necessary data.
The office is prepared to submit periodic
and special reports to various headquarters,
and at times the reports are broken down
according to units, work classification, wage
category, and residence.

PLACEMENT PROCEDURE OUTLINED

Before any request for German employees
is processed by the personnel office, the
request itself is checked to find out whether
or not a vacancy exists in the allocation of
the requesting unit. If there is no vacancy
or if the unit concerned has a greater
number of employees than is allocated, the
personnel office has no authority to hire
persons for that particular unit. If a va-
cancy exists, the files are checked for former
employees who were discharged through no
fault of their own and who may be qualified
to fill the vacant position. Persons discharg-
ed through their own misconduct or because
of their undesirable past are placed in a
special file to prevent their reemployment
with MG. If a suitable former employee is
not available to fill a vacant position, a re-
quisition is submitted to the German Labor
Office to send one or more persons with the
required qualifications for interview. Often
the employment office arranges for the inter-
viewing of two to three times the number
of employees requested so that the best
qualified persons may be chosen.

When difficulties occur between employ-

(Continued on page 27)

Technicians such as this worker in the AG
lithograph plant are placed in their pos-
itions by the Indigenous Personnel Office.

Photo by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 14 ---
Publishers Questions Answered

Director of Information Control Discusses Problems of Licensed
Press, MG Policy at Recent Meeting of Zone Newspaper Associations

W'= German newspaper publishers in

the US Zone were troubled over
questions which concerned their 44 news-
papers in the three Laender, Bremen, and
Berlin, they decided to go right to head-
quarters for the answers.

They invited Brig. Gen. Robert McClure,
Director of Information Control, OMGUS, to
attend a joint meeting of the three publishers
associations of Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, and Greater-Hesse in Garmisch-
Partenkirchen in December and then for
three hours questioned him on subjects
which ranged from concern over cuts in
newsprint and political party newspapers
to the proposed German press law and the
right of publishers to criticize Military Gov-
ernment.

In answer to questions as to whether po-
litical party newspapers would be permitted
in the US Zone and on recent newsprint
cuts, General McClure told the German
publishers:

“The US policy in regard to party news-
papers has not changed, although a partisan
press is not contrary to our views. We feel
that the time to permit the establishment
of partisan newspapers has not yet come.
In any event, we are strongly opposed to
any kind of subsidized press because we
feel that it lends itself to interests which
are not identical with the public interest.

“As an observation pertinent to this
question, it is interesting to note that a
recent survey conducted fairly and impar-
tially shows that 77 percent of the persons
questioned voted for a non-party or inde-
pendent press, while less than eight percent
voted for a party press. This seems to me
to be conclusive evidence that German read-
ers want clear, dependable, and objective
information.

“Furthermore, the supply of newsprint in

11

the Zone is so short that it is extremely
difficult to supply the existing newspapers
with newsprint. This almost excludes any
additional licensing of papers in the near
future.... Newsprint has become so short
in supply because a considerable amount of
newsprint produced in the US Zone will
have to be exported to the British Zone in
exchange for certain other needed materials
which are not available in the US Zone.

“In order to meet any emergency that
might arise, we want to build up the news-
print reserves for every newspaper in the US
Zone. Some who do not have sufficient
reserves will therefore receive sufficient
deliveries to build up this reserve. Others
who have accumulated unreasonable amounts
of newsprint will have to live on what they
have until reserve stocks have been
equalized....

EXPLANATION FOR TAKING STEP

“This is purely a matter of production
capacity and shortage of raw materials.
Military Government regrets that this step
is necessary. We are fully aware of the
serious handicaps which this step imposes
on the mission of the press.... I can assure
you that an improvement of the newsprint
situation will mean a complete restoration
of the cuts which we have had to make.”

Pointing out that the shortage is due
principally to the lack of coal, insufficiency
of producing plants, machines, and labor,
and the necessity of export to the British
Zone, General McClure told the publishers:
“The Military Governor has expressed him-
self as approving all measures contributing
to the free operation of the press.... Title
14 of Military Government Regulations states
that first priority will be given to agencies
working to prevent unrest. Newspapers
are clearly agents falling into this category.

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 15 ---
ny old Latin proverb which every school
child learns, “Per aspera ad astra —
through difficulties to the stars” — took on
quite a different meaning in Nazi German
schools when it became “Through battle to
victory.”

But this and hundreds of other examples
of militarism and nationalism in German
textbooks has not convinced US Military
Government that it should go to the other
extreme and force its own brand of school
books upon Germany. Self-determination
along democratic lines, officials of the MG
Education and Religious Affairs Branch
believe, will guarantee a more wholesome
educational system for German youth.

But how to find German school books
untainted by the glorification of war and
fatherland?

First, US and British education workers
conducted a survey of texts from the Weimar
period which could be reprinted intact and
presented to the German school authorities
as books written and published in Germany
and consequently free from what might be
termed foreign “propaganda.” Although
these texts did not reflect the most up-to-
date pedagogical ideas, their temporary use
was the best possible emergency solution to
the textbook problem. A few sample texts

12

were discovered in Engiand, but most were
obtained in microfilm from the large col-
lection in the library of Teachers College,
Columbia University. During the summer of
1944 these films were read and standards
developed, and in the following winter tech-
niques for elimination of Nazi, militaristic,
and nationalistic strains were worked out in
considerable detail. A final list of texts
selected for publication emerged after agree-
ment with representatives of the Control
Commission of Germany (British Element).
Printing of the books from plates produced
in England took place in an edition of 40,000
sets in Aachen and Bonn during the late
winter of 1944 and in early spring of 1945.

SERIES OF 20 VOLUMES

A much larger edition was produced in
Munich in the early summer of 1945. Final
arrangements for shipment of the books
were concluded on 1 October of that year,
and by the 15th of that month 5,328,616
copies of these texts had been distributed
throughout the US Zone, the US Sector of
Berlin, and the Bremen Enclave. The series
consisted of 20 volumes: eight readers, five
arithmetic books, three history texts, and
four volumes on nature study.

These emergency textbooks were regarded

--- Page 16 ---
merely as an expedient to tide the German
school authorities over the initial period of

reopening and reorganizing the education,

structure. They were to be used only until
better books could be found or produced.
‘Because of the continuing shortage of ac-
ceptable texts, the German authorities
searched everywhere for stocks of books
which might still be of value. Whenever
they located a supply of textbooks they com-
plied with MG regulations by submitting a
sample copy of each item to Military Govern-
ment for study. These books were then
examined according to the curriculum
policy laid down in MGR Title 8-215 and
8-412, and placed into one of three
categories: A— “approved,” B— “rejected
without qualifications,” and C— “approved
subject to changes.”

Up to 1 December 1946, 1,962 books had
been examined at an average of 115 a month.
Each month the findings were published in
mimeographed form for distribution in the
Laender; and the results of the first year of
scrutiny, July 1945 through June 1946, were
recently printed and sent to the schools in
the US Zone.

AVAILABILITY OF APPROVED TEXTS

The regular monthly approval of an
average of 90 school texts does not mean,
however, that every month many more books
have become available to the schools in
general. In most cases only a limited number
of copies of such textbooks submitted for
approval are actually on hand. Stocks of
publishing houses are for the most part
destroyed and the majority of the approved
texts are old and often out of print. Hence
it is seldom possible for any school except
the one which submitted the books for

13

scrutiny to obtain copies. On the average,
not more than 50 copies of each approved
text are actually available for use. Most
schools make some use of emergency texts.
Where books are available they have been
passed from hand to hand, and shared by
from two to fifty students. Teachers often
dictate the work to the students, who then
write their notes on whatever paper they
have been able to find. Occasionally the in-
structor is able to use mimeographed
material, but ordinarily the machines are no
longer on hand and supplies of paper and
ink are exhausted.

CONTRIBUTION BY US ARMY

Whenever the Education and Religious
Affairs Branch discovers stocks of acceptable
textbooks, the books are made available to
the schools. For instance, 30,000 copies of
a physics text were found in Berlin and
shipped to Wiesbaden for distribution in the
Laender. The examination of stocks of a
Frankfurt firm yielded 200,000 acceptable
textbooks. From Army sources about
2,000,000 copies of Information and Educa-
tion books have been made available during
the last six months to universities and
schools in the three Laender and the Ameri-
can Sector of Berlin, to be used for reference.
Military Government also facilitates the
shipping of books donated by persons or
organizations outside Germany. Arrange-
ments have been made for moving the private
library of a late American professor of Ger-
man to the Landesbibliothek at Karlsruhe,
for shipping 50,000 German books collected
by the Mixed Committee of the International
Red Cross in Geneva, and for bringing into
Germany 200,000 tons of books and other
scientific material from the Smithsonian In-

(Continued on page 26)

--- Page 17 ---
ipartite conom

GHAI!

DEPUTY

Cc a

ECONOMIC PLAN

ORGANIZATION STAT

Cc ,
BASIC PRODUCER CONSUMER

INDUSTRIES INDUSTRIES INDUSTRIES

Functioning side by side in Minden, West-
phalia, are two agencies whose purpose is
to implement the Anglo-American bizonal
unity accord in the field of economics. One
of these agencies is the Bipartite Economic
Control Group, composed of US and British
officers; the other is the German Executive
Committee for Economics, made up of the
Land ministers of economics of both the
British and US Zones. The control group
serves primarily to coordinate contacts of
Military Government personnel with person-
nel of the German agency, to give guidance
in policy matters, and to serve as a channel
of communication between the agency and
US and British Military Government.

One of five administrative organizations

--- Page 18 ---
Control Group

established by the Germans of the two zones,
the Executive Committee for Economics is
responsible for the planning and execution
of a program of economic recovery for over
half of Germany. With the committee rests the
success or failure of the Anglo-American
plan to make the two-zone area self suffi-
cient by 1949.

(Left) The American flag flies in the British occupa-
tion zone in front ot the Minden officers mess;
(above) an organizational chart of the Bipartite Eco-
nomic Control Group; (below) left to right, Maj. Gen.
G. E. Grimsdale, Deputy Chairman, British element,
Mr. Malcomb McComb, Chairman, US element, Bri-
gadier J. G. Cowley, Chairman, British element,
and Col. Ellis F. Altman, Deputy Chairman, US
element; (right) the headquarters of the bizonal
economics agencies. Photos by Byers

--- Page 19 ---
Bizonal Civil Service Plan

German experts are developing a civil
service program to staff bizonal agencies
with personnel chosen on a basis of “reason-
ableness, fairness and impartiality.”

“Each public servant must realize that
he is literally the servant of the people, not
its master,” declares a guidance memorandum
being used by the new German Bizonal Joint
Commitiee on Civil Service.

Creation of the German committee was
authorized 30 December 1946 by the Anglo-
American Bipartite Board in Berlin to work
out personnel procedures for staffing Ger-
man bizonal agencies. At a subsequent meet-
ing in Frankfurt the committee decided to
draft a preliminary statement of its sphere
of operations for submission to the Bipartite
Board for review.

To guide the German committee, the
Bipartite Civil Service Panel, which serves
the Bipartite Board, prepared a statement of
general civil service principles including:

Recruitment and promotion of personnel
are to be “by impartial evaluations,” with
freedom from discrimination “on the basis
of creed, social antecedents, race, sex, or
politics.” Training programs also are to be
on an impartial basis.

Positions within the service are to be
classified according to their responsibilities
and duties, with appropriate salaries.

Public servants are to have the right to
appeal from decisions considered unjust. They
are to be guaranteed freedom from political
interference. The government is to maintain
the right “to restrict the public servant’s
active participation in party politics.”

Basic principles of a pension plan are to
apply to all public servants.

A central personnel office is to be estab-
lished to administer the principles outlined
above.

16

In order to help alleviate the acute Ger-
man coal shortage, Hesse has reopened the
only school of mining in the US-occupied
zone. The school, located at Dillenburg,
Hesse, was originally founded in 1858, and
is designed to train coal miners in super-
visory and executive positions after they
have had actual experience in the mines.

Courses, which last from one to three
years, are elected by the students. Subject
matter includes geology, chemistry, physics,
and mathematics. Lectures are given on
theories of government, labor legislation,
and the mining policies of various nations.

According to Erwin Dingman, vocational
officer, OMG, Hesse, the 80 students attend-
ing the Dillenburg school of mines live in
either Dillenburg or nearby villages. They
maintain “old school traditions” by wearing
distinctive mining uniforms and gathering
to sing traditional mining songs.

Otto Riedel, director of the school, and
his staff of three instructors have assured
OMG, Hesse, that the school, considered
one of Europe’s best mining schools, will
live up to its reputation of superior
instruction, and at the same time adhere to
the principles of democracy insisted upon by
US Military Government.

FIAT Headquarters Moved

The Field Information Agency Technical,
US Army organization which is probing into
wartime Germany’s advances in scientific
and technical fields for the purpose of mak-
ing them available to the United States and
other nations, has moved its headquarters
from Hoechst to Karlsruhe. This action was
taken to relieve the crowded Frankfurt-
Hoechst military community.

Agency personnel number 1,000, including
military personnel, War Department ci-
vilians, US Department of Commerce officials,

--- Page 20 ---
and a limited number of key German per-
sonnel. FIAT is operated under the direc-
tion of OMGUS. Two other FIAT’s are in
operation, one under the British and the
other under the French.

Ordinance Violation Cited

The Finance Division, OMGUS, has dis-
covered that Germans are being appointed
without proper authority and clearance as
directors in firms in foreign countries. Such
appointments, the Division points out, are in
violation of Control Council Proclamation
No. 2, which specifies that “no foreign
obligations, undertakings, or commitments
of any kind will be assumend or entered into
by or on behalf of German authorities or
nationals without the sanction of Allied
representatives.”

MG plans to prosecute violators of this
proclamation and to guard against similar
illegal action in the future. Presence of
Germans on boards of directors of foreign
firms at this time conflicts with American
and Allied efforts to marshal all German
external assets as part of the program to
prevent a regrowth of Nazi power.

Personnel Changes

Richard D. Kearney has been appointed
Denazification Legal Officer of the Office of
Personal Advisor to the Deputy Military
Governor on Denazification.

William W. Schott was recently appoint-
ed Chief of the Liaison and Protocol Sec-
tion, US Element, Allied Control Authority.

Kenneth Dayton has been named Deputy
Military Governor of OMG Bavaria. He
succeeds Col. Ernest C. Norman, who is now
assigned to the Policy Enforcement Branch
of Civil Administration Division, OMGUS.

Ben A. Smith, Jr., is now Chief of the War
Crimes Branch of the Legal Division, OMGUS.

Maj. Walter E. Mather has been appoint-
ed as US Secretary of the Bipartite Secre-
tariat, OMGUS.

17

Col. William G. Brey has been named
Acting Chief of Rear Echelon, OMGUS.

Private Litigation Authorized

The Administration of Justice Branch of
the Legal Division, OMGUS, has announced
that the resumption of privaté criminal suits
in German courts of the US Zone has been
authorized. Since the beginning of the oc-
cupation these suits, relating to slander, libel,
assault, battery, trespass, and similar of-
fenses, have been handled by public prosecu-
tors, and then only when prosecution was in
the interests of the public.

To relieve the German prosecutors’ offices,
it was found advisable to permit the
aggrieved person to act as prosecutor, a
common practice in Germany prior to the
occupation, in hearings of private criminal
suits before German courts.

DANA Becomes DENA

The identifying slug DENA, which now
appears as source for many stories in the
German licensed Press, is not a typograph-
ical error for DANA. The German news
agency, recently licensed to the 87 publishers
of 44 newspapers in the US Zone, has made
a slight change in its name in order to meet
objections of the Danish Government. The
Deutsche Allgemeine Nachrichten Agentur
has become the Deutsche Nachrichten Agen-
tur and the identifying letters or logotype
have been changed from DANA to DENA.
The Danish Post Office cable address was
DANA. Military Government had promised
that at the time of licensing the news agency
as a German-owned enterprise, the change
would be made to meet Danish Government
wishes.

DENA has been German-owned and
operated, under continued American super-
vision, since 26 October last year. Actual
direction of the news agency is in the hands
of 15 publishers, elected at a general meet-
ing of all newspaper licensees. A Managing
Board (Vorstand) of three licensees has the
direct responsibility for the agency.

--- Page 21 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

Authority has been granted for distribu-
tion to displaced persons of publications
actually printed in countries or districts of
former domicile of the DP’s, providing these
publications contain no anti-American pro-
paganda or information prejudicial to the
US occupation in Germany.

The CARE organization has announced
its first donation of 11,600 packages for
general distribution among the needy of the
US Zone and the US Sector of Berlin.

To conserve fuel, Wuerttemberg schools
extended the Christmas holidays until 12 Jan-
uary, one week beyond the normal vaca-
tion period. Munich University, except for
a few essential clinics in the Medical Fac-
ulty, was also closed until 3 February be-
cause of the shortage of fuel.

The circulation of the licensed newspapers
in the US-occupied areas of Germany was
reduced generally to conserve newsprint.
However, Der Abend in Berlin was allowed
to increase its circulation from 45,000 to
60,000 in order to avoid operating at a loss.

ART UNCOVERED IN BUNKER

After an 18-month search by American
and German agencies, treasures of the
Martin von Wagner Museum at Wuerzburg
were discovered in a bunker at Schweinfurt.
The discovery included 82 paintings, some
by Palma, Teniers, and Tintoretto; 13 fram-
ed Coptic textiles, and 11 pieces of sculp-
ture, four of them by Riemenschneider and
a terracotta by Luca Della Robbia.

The Allied Coordinating Committee has
decided that the employment policy in re-
gard to disabled persons will be left to the
discretion of each zone commander.

All captured enemy signal material and
equipment in Mannheim, Nuremberg, and
Neu-Aubing depots have been released by
USFET to fill urgent needs of the Reichs-
post, DENA (licensed German news serv-
ice), and the Reichsbahn.

Almost all paper and pulp mills in the
US Zone have closed down since the middle

18

of December owing to the virtual cessation
of coal deliveries to those plants.

Nearly 25,000 metric tons of high-grade
seed potatoes, out of a total of 45,000 tons
contracted for from Czechoslovakia, Den-
mark, the British and Soviet Zones, had
arrived in the US Zone by 10 December.

In view of the acute shortage of coal and
electric power in the US Zone, production of
calcium cyanamid fertilizer during January
was expected to be only one-third of capacity.

FOOD SHIPMENTS FROM US

Nearly 80,000 metric tons of food for
German civilians was received in the period
1-28 December from the United States.
Additional arrivals during the final few
days of the month were expected to bring
the December imports to more than double
the average monthly arrival rate for the
period September through November.

During the two-week period ending
31 December, the major problems of law
enforcement in Hesse decreased. In
Bavaria, the number of crimes increased
noticeably.

The Swiss Red Cross has announced the
selection of Kassel as the US Zone city from
which the second group of 450 under-
nourished German children will be taken to
Switzerland for a three-month recuperative
vecation. The children for the first group
had been selected in the Mannheim area with
departure scheduled for this month.

856 MOVIE HOUSES OPEN

The number of movie houses in the US-
occupied areas of Germany reached a total
of 856 at the end of 1946. Of these, 520
were opened during the year. The net total
was distributed as follows: Bavaria, 364;
Hesse, 245; Wuerttemberg-Baden, 156; Bre-
men Enclave (US), 31; Berlin Sector (US), 60.

The ration scales for the 97th period be-
ginning 6 January continue to provide
1,550 calories per day for normal consumers
in the US and British Zones.

--- Page 22 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts trom official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies. of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

Motor Vehicle Ordinance

A new ordinance on motor vehicle speed
limits for the US Zone of Germany has been
promulgated by OMGUS. This regulation,
MG Ordinance No. 9, applies to all persons
operating vehicles within the US Zone of
Germany, except members of the armed
forces of the United Nations. The new speed
regulations are as follows:

1/,-ton trucks (jeeps) 35 mph; operating
on autobahns, 40 mph.

Passenger military vehicles, commonly
known as C & R’s and motorcycles, 40 mph.

Other passenger vehicles, 40 mph; operat-
ing on autobahns, 50 mph.

Trucks, 8/4 to 11/2-ton inclusive, 30 mph;
operating on autobahns, 40 mph.

Trucks, 2— 2t/e-ton inclusive, 25 mph;
operating on autobahns, 30 mph; operating
in convoy, 25 mph.

Trucks, more than 21/2-ton, 25 mph.

Track vehicles, with or without tractors,
20 mph; operating on autobahns, 25 mph.

Truck tractors, with or without semi-
tractors, 20 mph; except that when in convoy
rear trucks may proceed at 30 mph when
necessary to maintain position.

In addition to these regulations, the mil-
itary community and local military roadway
speed laws are to be observed. Violators
are to be prosecuted in an MG court, or, if
subject, in the appropriate German court.
If convicted the defendent is to be punished
by a fine not to exceed 25 dollars for the
first offense. For subsequent violations the
punishment is to be a fine not exceeding
100 dollars, imprisonment for not more than
60 days, or both.

19

Confiscated Property

MG Regulation 5-309.7 has been changed
with respect to the manner of delivery by
the courts of property confiscated by MG
Courts, according to an OMGUS indorsement
of USFET Directive AG 386 GDS-AGO,
“Property Ordered Forfeited or Confiscated
by MG Courts,” dated 20 November 1946.
The USFET Directive states:

“1. US Army property, other than per-
ishables, confiscated or forfeited by order of
a Military Government Court, will be sur-
rendered against receipt to the nearest
Security and Liaison Detachment, which
Detachment will in turn deliver all of such
items to the nearest appropriate US Army
Supply Agency.

“2. Guns, ammunition and _ explosives
whether of US Army or other origin and
other personal property which in the hands
of the Germans would threaten the security
of the Allied Forces, will be disposed of as
indicated in paragraph 1 above.

“3. All other property confiscated in-
cluding perishables, unless returned to the
rightful owner, will be surrendered to the
nearest German Buergermeister against
receipt, for disposition in a manner beneficial
to the local German population.

“4, All of such property presently in cus-
tody of German property controllers, German
police offices or other agencies, will be dis-
posed of as provided in paragraph 1 above.”

Road Titles Changed

MGR Title 14, which provides for the
establishment of highway transport agencies,
has been amended by OMGUS at the sug-
gestion of the Bizonal Executive Committee.
The change, contained in OMGUS directive
AG 014.1 (TD), dated 30 December 1946,
provides for the names of agencies to read
as follows: Directorate for Highway Trans-
port, Main Office for Highway Transport,
and Office of Highway Transport.

--- Page 23 ---
Zone Press Pessimistic over
1947 Prospects for Germany

New Year editorials in the German
licensed press of the US Zone carried a
general tone of pessimism, frequently ex-
pressing disappointment over the current
situation, according to the weekly press
analysis by the Office of the Director of
Information Control, OMGUS. However,
some newspapers saw hope for improve-
ment, particularly through the Peace Con-
ference, a union of all zones, and a gradual
increase in production.

The Heilbronner Stimme considered the
final dissolution of Prussia as the most im-
portant event of 1946. For the coming year,
the editorial cited one chief fear, hunger and
epidemics; but it was otherwise optimistic.
Germany will be reunited, and the reunifi-
cation of Germany will not mean power, but
a planned economy, the editorial said, ad-
ding: “The German economy will be a
planned economy whether we want it or not.
The most determined advocates of a free
economy will not be able to change the
overwhelming force of facis.... May 1947
then lead us on to the way of a moderate,
still not entirely free, way of self-determina-
tion, the way to a better future.”

The current German economy was des-
cribed by the Passauer Neue Presse as a
“breakdown along the whole line... inde-
scribable misery, spiritual isolation... a
desperate lethargy such as never existed be-
fore in the history of German economy.”
The editorial saw hope that the bizonal
economic merger agreement will have a
healing effect, adding “It would be
presumption to doubt from the start the
possibilities of revival in the near future.
The bases and hypotheses for recovery have
been created.”

However, the Frankenpost (Hof) express-
ed pessimism in saying the bizonal agree-

eable
ment in our standard of living.”

the agreement “merely anticipates creation
of an export program which will permit us
enough imports to raise the number of
calories from 1,550 to 1,800.”

Oder-Neisse Border Problem

In an editorial discussing the implications
of the Oder-Neisse border problem in regard
to its effect on the international market, the
Suedost Kurier (Bad Reichenhall) said: “In
order to pay for food imports, industrial
products worth a million marks must be
exported annually. In other words, Ger-
many will have to dump these goods on the
world market at any price. In addition, ex-
ports will be required, as before the war, to
pay for the cost of raw materials. As big
an export trade from Germany as this will
put very strong pressure on the whole world
economy, to say nothing of the difficulty of
achievement due to diminished efficiency
of the production machine in the reduced
German industrial territory.”

French Action in Saar

The recent news concerning French
activities in the Saar was the basis of
editorial comment in two German licensed
newspapers in the US Zone.

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) was
sympathetic to the French actions, saying:
“The news of the French step in the Saar
hits us hard, but it does not hit us unex-
pectedly. The French desire for security,
undoubtedly coupled with definite economic
considerations, has been formulated for the
past year so clearly and frequently that
even months ago the American and British
Governments confirmed that they do not
object to an economic attachment of the
Saar to France.”

The Sueddeutsche

Zeitung (Munich)

--- Page 24 ---
pointed out that the Saar population is pre-
dominately German, and was happy to join
the former German Reich, but today their
orientation toward France is motivated by
material gains such as increased rations. The
article warned that France should not take
advantage of the egotism of the Saarlanders,
as this type of maneuvering might only
create an irritant between Germany and
France. It suggested, “If the Saar must be
joined economically with France, this can
be done clearly and cleanly as reparations.”

Unkept Promises

In an editorial directed primarily to the
Germans, the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
commented on the undesirable psychological
effect of unkept promises — in food and
public life. The editorial continued: “There
has been some real progress. We should
remember also that the Americans were the
ones who have in 1946 protected us from the
worst and whose help we need in 1947 in
order to avoid the worst.”

Nissen Hut Development

In reply to a recent attack against the
Nissen hut housing development in the
British Sector of Tiergarten, made by the
two SED papers in Berlin, the British
licensed Telegraf cited a competent authority
in British Military Government.

Admitting that conditions are difficult in
such huts because “I myself lived in such
for several winters during the war in
northern England,” the MG authority point-
ed out these huts have been used as billets
for British and Americans during the war
and also as hospitals. Not only have they
been used for military purposes, continued
the authority, but many families in England
are thankful to get such huts.

The source further pointed out that when
it was decided several months ago to set up
the huts it was thought the solution would
be an emergency one which would give
housing to a great number of people without
homes. He also pointed out that the in-

21

habitants all volunteered to live in these
huts, and “certainly many Berliners in all
sectors of the city would be pleased to be
given the chance to have such huts as living
quarters.”

Admitting the hardships of the present
cold spell, he declared: “One cannot, how-
ever, avoid the impression that the repeated
attacks against this emergency solution...
have been made for political rather than ob-
jective reasons.”

Amnesty for Small Nazis

In an editorial calling for general legis-
lation for the small Nazis, the Soviet-
licensed “Der Morgen,” Liberal Democratic
Party newspaper in Berlin, welcomed
General McNarney’s amnesty proclamation
for small Nazis in the American Zone be-
cause it kindles interest in the subject again.

“What we need is... a general legislation
for all of Germany which will make it
possible to draw a final separation line
between ,the real guilty and the mere
hangers-on ....” declared the paper.

In stating that under the present situation
more than a third of the German population
will always have a stigma to bear, the
paper backed its figuring by pointing out
party membership amounted to eight million
and that one has to add to this figure three
persons from each family.

The paper said that there cannot, how-
ever, be any danger for the German democ-
racy when they first have to undergo a cer-
tain waiting period before gaining full
rights again.

“A general solution must be found on the
broadcast basis, otherwise all trials would
last for years on end and many millions
would sit in the moral dock,” declared the
LDP organ, further pointing out that these
people could not be used for economic re-
construction. Such a situation, added the
paper, would not only be against the interests
of economy, but would also embitter these
people, “most of whom have already realized
their former error.”

--- Page 25 ---
PRESS and RADIO COMMENT

Choice of Marshall Favorably
Received by US Commentators

US press and radio comment, in its reac-
tion to the news of the resignation of
Secretary Byrnes and the appointment of
General George C. Marshall to succeed him,
had one underlying theme: that Byrnes’
departure from the top US foreign policy
post is regrettable but, since it was unavoid-
able, that Marshall’s succession to the post
is an excellent choice.

Both editorials and radio commentators
pointed out that Byrnes was at the peak
of his popularity both in and outside of the
United States and had only very recently
successfully completed one of the hardest
postwar jobs — getting treaties with former
satellite countries ready for signature.

The New York Times said in part:
“Though it has long been known that
Secretary Byrnes wished sooner or later to
lay aside the duties of one of the most exact-
ing of all offices in the government, news
of his resignation came without warning and
with startling suddenness. There had been
no reason to assume that he contemplated
taking this step on the eve of the important
Moscow conference on Germany.

“On the contrary, there have been many
reasons to believe that he was fully prepared
to make the Moscow journey. It is inevitable,
in these circumstances, that some observers
will jump to the conclusion that on one
issue or another of foreign policy a sudden
sharp disagreement has developed between
Byrnes and the President, foreshadowing
change of policy. We find the whole in-
cident disconcerting but we find this partic-
ular explanation of it almost incredible.

“Evidence exists in -abundamce that on
every important question of foreign policy
which has come before the country since
Byrnes took office, he and the President
have thought alike and felt alike, and that
the President has relied heavily, consistently

and successfully 6#=BY
(therefore) we can only bétieve
has found, sooner than he expected to find,
that the heavy burdens of his office are more
than he can carry.

“That he has carried these burdens with
great distinction through one of the most
trying periods in the history of American
diplomacy is amply demonstrated by the
record. His has been the double task of
writing treaties of peace to end the greatest
war in the history and simultaneously organ-
izing the United Nations for a brave new
adventure....

“From Potsdam and Moscow to Paris and
Flushing Meadow, his course has been
guided by deep devotion to the interests of
the American people, as Americans and as
citizens of the world community. He has
shown foresight and courage, patience and
unflagging zeal. He will find reward for
his efforts in the deep gratitude of the Amer-
ican people.

“We have full confidence in the ability of
General Marshall to perform with credit to
himself and to the country the duties of
Secretary of State. His war service marked
him as a great American, a man of judgment,
force and high integrity. His more recent
experience as the President’s special emissary
to China has given him schooling in the
ways of diplomacy, in what is probably the
most difficult diplomatic college in the
world. He has broad acquaintanceship
among European diplomats with whom he
will now deal. He has been understanding
of the fundamental purposes of American
foreign policy and has the deep respect and
warm friendship of the whole American
people.

“Because we are confident that the resig-
nation of Secretary Byrnes was occasioned
by no disagreement with the President on
a point of fundamental policy, we are
equally confident that the appointment of
General Marshall foreshadows no change in