--- Page 2 ---
pet

MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 80 / 17 FEBRUARY 1947
HEIDELBERG MEDICAL CENTER p> a yak 4 >

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG
ROTEN BURG

OBER =
LAHNKREIS

GROSS~
GERAUI
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBERBISCH —
OFSHEIM
fe MOSBACH eee

BRUCHSAU GRAILSHEIM
HEILBRONN

Ya BACKNANG
PEORZHEIM

LEONBER

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

a

neil

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Dependency Benefits for German Dependents .
Counter Intelligence Corps Impersonation

Army Exchange Ration Cards .

Monthly Report — Status of Personnel and Quarters :
Time Limitations Governing Military Awards .

Switzerland and Swiss-Rome Tours

Recognition of United Nations Displaced Persons as Camp Administrators
Rotation of Military Personnel to the US .

Recurring Reports Register .

Redesignation of Non-T/O Units :

Population Statistics for Germany .

Revision of MGR Title 11 Required by ACA Decision .

ACA Directive No. 40

French Occupation Francs

Downgrading of SWNCC 269/9 .

AG 292 FDD-AGP-B
14 January 1947, USFET

AG 200.2 GBI-AGO
21 Jauary 1947, USFET

AG 331.3 GAP-AGO
21 January 1947, USFET

AG 680 GAP-AGO
23 January 1947, USFET

AG 200.6 GAP-AGP-Q
24 January 1947, USFET

AG 210.711 SSP-AGO
27 January 1947, USFET

AG 383.7 GEC-AGO
28 January 1947, USFET

- Circular No. 4

29 January 1947, USFET

AG 319.1 AGX-AGO
29 January 1947, USFET

AG 322 GCT-AGO
30 January 1947, USFET

AG 091.4 (CA)
30 January 1947; OMGUS
AG 0106 (ED)
1 February 1947, OMGUS
AG 010.6 (IC)
3 February 1947, OMGUS

AG 123.7 (AG)
4 February 1947, OMGUS.

AG 380.01 (AG)
8 February 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
HEIDELBERG MEDICAL CENTER — The
search of German young people for know-
ledge for a better, peacetul living is typitied
by the expressions on the faces on the students
shown on this week's cover at a lecture-dem-
onstrotion of the Heidelberg center. Details
on Military Governments efforts to encourage
this search for knowledge are given in .the

article on “Education” on Page 14.
Signal Corps Photo

MG SERIES,

The articles for the third week of the series
On current functions and operations of Military
Government in Germany are devoted to the
various branches and sections of the Internal
Affairs and Communications Division of OMGUS.
Following a general account of the Division as
@ whole, articles deal with Communications,
Public Health, Public Welfare, Education, and
Religious Affairs.
Another activity of the Division — Public
Safely — will be published next week. Also
-scheduled for the fourth week of the series
“are articles on Civil Administration Division,
“Transport Division, Armed Forces Division, and
“Prisoners-of-War and Displaced Persons Division.
The German Reactions section is compiled
“from material assembled and translated by the
Scrutiny Board of the Office of the Director
of Information Control, OMGUS, from the
pages of the licensed German press of the
‘US Zone. The section is intended to give a
representative selection of what the editors
and writers of the independent German press
are thinking and writing, and does not express
1@ policy of Military Government.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
MILITARY GOVERNMENT SERIES

Internal Affairs & Communications Division
Communications

Public Welfare

Education

Religious Affairs

Public Health

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Youth Program Implemented

Army Youth Activities

German Deficiencies Listed

New Export Procedure
GENERAL

General Items

US Zone MG Activities

Excerpts from Official Instructions

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
GERMAN REACTIONS

come

10
14
24
28

19
21
33
34

35
37
38

39
43

--- Page 7 ---
“INTERNAL AFFAIRS

and
COMMU NICATIONS

~ DIVISION

he Internal Affairs and Communications

Division is responsible for many of those
phases of Military Government most intimate-
ly affecting the German population.
prescribed work roughly resembling that of
the US Department of Interior, the Division
deals with matters concerning the German
educational system; religious institutions and
the clergy; public health and medical affairs:
public and private welfare organizations; the
police and fire services; and the communi-
cations and postal systems.

Structurally, the Division has five function-

al branches covering widely separated fields -

of acti

ties dealing with everyday life.
These are: Communications Branch, Public
Health Branch, Public Welfare Branch, Edu-
cation and Religious Affairs Branch, and
Public Safety Branch,

The Communications Branch watches over
the sprawling Reichspost with its postal,
telephone, telegraph, and radio activities.
Also under its supervision are such opera-
tions as postal savings, certain payments of
pensions and annuities, a checking account
system, and newspaper subscriptions handled
through the post offices. As communications

With

have an important part in the: US: endeavor
toward German’ economic unification, the
branch has vital associations with similar
organizations of the occupying powers on
bizonal and quadripartite matters.

The Public Health Branch serves a dual
purpose for safeguarding: the: health of: the
occupations forces and for promoting the —
highest standards among the Germans. Re-
sponsibilities under the section include pre-
ventive medicine, venereal disease control,
environmental sanitation, nutrition, nursing
affairs, veterinary ‘affairs, and biostatistics.

The Public Welfare Branch sees that the
German authorities provide help for the poor,
homeless, aged, crippled, and needy children.
Sections under it are Public Assistance and
Welfare Services. An important responsi-
bility is the supervision of the CRALOG and
CARE relief programs.

The Education Portion of the EXRA Branch
has two parts: The Office of General Edu-
cational Institutions and Agencies, which
supervises the schools, teacher education, text-
books, and teaching aids; and the Office of
Special Educational Institutions and Agen-
cies, which handles technical, vocational and

--- Page 8 ---
adult education. A vital responsibility of the
latter office is also the supervision of the
MG youth activities program.

The Office of Religious Affairs has three
main categories of supervision: Evangelical
Affairs, Catholic Affairs, and Church Finance
and Minor Sects. The religious aspects of
German life are vastly different from that in
the United States, so the widest possible lati-
tude is permitted in order for the German
people to develop their religious jnclina-
tions to the fullest extent of their own desires
toward a democratic and peaceful goal.

The Public Safety Branch watches over
the wide variety of protective services offered
by police and fire prevention forces. Howev-
er, the branch has an important part in the
objectives of Military Government in. that it
supervises the over-all operations of dena-

zification throughout the US Zone.

The administrative matters of the [A&C
Division, supervision and coordination of
these activities for its branches are handled
by the Administrative Section, together with
the Division Personnel Office. To insure
uniformity in the final action on problems
among the branches and with other divisions,
all interested groups are consulied. In
inter-division consultations, work clears
through Division headquarters.

At quadripartite level, the director, [A&C
Division, is the US member of the Director-
ate of Internal Affairs and Communications,
which handles all quadripartite problems fall-
ing under its jurisdiction. In addition,
the IA&C Division has responsibility for
implementing quadripartite policy in the US
Zone.

Freight yard workers unload a shipment of ten-in-one rations, which are
to be distributed to needy German families by German relief agencies
under the supervision of the Public Welfare Branch of IA & C Division.

Signal Corps Photo

e

--- Page 9 ---
COMMUNICATIONS

f Bell Telephone, Western Union, and the

US Post Office Department all were com-
bined, the result would be a near equivalent
of Germany’s complex Reichspost. How this
complicated organization functions — plus
other phases of civil communications — is
the direct responsibility of the Communica-
tions Branch of the Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS.

Signal Corps Photo

Working through established _ German
civilian agencies, the Branch is organized
into five sections corresponding to the five
operating divisions of the German com-
munications system, These sections are
staffed with American MG personnel who
are experts in the fields of telecommunica-
tions, postal affairs, organization and per-
sonnel, finance, and building. housing, pro-

A German postal employee sorts packages into their respective
sectional mail bags at German Postamt No. 1, Frankfurt

--- Page 10 ---
curement, and transportation.

In German hands, most of these functions
are carried out by various branches of the
Reichspost. So widespread is this organiza-
tion’s work that it is involved in almost
every activity of German daily life. Each
day, thousands of passengers are carried on
postal motor routes to towns, cities, and vil-
lages where other transportation is not
available. The Reichspost acts as an agent
for other governmental departments in ar-
ranging the payment of pensions and an-
nuities through its widespread post-office
system. It provides a postal savings system,
and is a distributing agency for foreign and
domestic newspapers, magazines, and other
periodicals, accepting subscriptions at post

_office windows and making deliveries by
post. A popular post check system provides
ing service which is intended primarily
for the use of small businessmen and persons
of limited means, but it also is used widely
by large corporations and manufacturers and
bears a close resemblance to checking accounts
offered by commercial banks in the United
States.
‘The supervision of this organization with

its many activities has been the major task
of the Communications Branch since V-E
Day. When the war ended, all civil services
were immediately suspended by the Supreme
Commander of the Allied Forces. Such action
was imperative: The Reichspost, as a depart-
ment of the German government, had been
under heavy pressure from the Third Reich
to enlist its employees in the Nazi party;
those persons who refused were removed or
prematurely retired and replaced with
ardent members and party sympathizers.
More than 80 percent of the high level exec-
utive personnel were later removed from
office under the denazification program car-
ried out by Military Government. A national
communications system such as the Reichs-
post, in daily contact with the entire popula-
tion through its many public services and
infested with Nazis, militarists, and their
sympathizers, offered a fertile field for
sabotage, political opposition, and the
organization of underground activities. A
complete reorganization was necessary before
this important agency could resume opera-
tion without endangering the security of the
occupation forces.

--- Page 11 ---
a.
\
3

--- Page 12 ---
Immediately afier V-E Day, the US Zone
was divided into six administrative areas
known as Reichspost Districts, each staffed
by a directorate of Reichspost officials under
the direction of MG postal, telephone, and
telegraph officers. The Allied Communica-
tions and Posts Committee was established
in Berlin under the Allied Control Authority
to coordinate communications policy in the
four occupied zones of Germany. The Com-
munications Branch naturally represents the
United States in this organization, taking
part in the sub-committee and quadripartite
working party activities which deal with
special phases of postal affairs, telecom-
munications, postal financial services, person-
nel, and organization.

RESTORATION PROBLEMS

In those early days of the occupation, the
urgent need for communications to avoid a
state of chaos and confusion was readily
realized by the Allied Commanders. But the
problems involved in their restoration were
many and varied. - In addition to a shortage
of politically reliable personnel — especially
administrators, supervisors, and technical
experts —- much of the communications
equipment was destroyed by the war. The
success of the Allied air attacks on Germany
is directly reflected in the toll taken of
Reichspost buildings, equipment, and trans-
portation facilities. Many important records
and files, without which an intricate com-
munications organization cannot operate ef-
ficiently, had been destroyed in the cam-
paigns that swept through the country. Im-
portant cables and control machinery were
destroyed and factories needed to produce
new equipment were devastated.

However, within a few days after the sur-
render, limited essential postal and telephone
services were resumed on a local basis, fol-
lowed soon by telegraphic communications
and the restoration of limited financial trans-
actions through the postal system. Operations
were gradually extended as the badly-
damaged facilities of the Reichspost were

Telephone ‘operators at work in one of the large
Berlin telephone exchanges.

Signa! Corps Photo
4
H

repaired and new equipment was installed.
By January 1946, most services were opera-
ting throughout the US Zone.

The introduction of limited postal: service
between the US Zone and the other occupied
areas in October 1945 was the first relaxation
of zonal restrictions, followed by* ‘the in-
auguration of telephone and telegraph service
in January 1946. In April of ‘that year
restricted international postal contact was
resumed between Germany and the outside
world, excluding Spain and Japan and her
dependencies. Gift relief parcels, via one-
way parcel post from the United: States to
the US Zone, were authorized in June, and
were extended to the British Zone.in August
and the French Zone in September. Effective
15 January 1947, this service was authorized
from all countries, excluding Spain, Japan,
and her dependencies, to all occupied. zones
and the city of Berlin. ‘Recently, postal
financial transactions which had been
limited to intrazonal use were extended to
provide for the transfer of funds: between
residents of the British, French; and US
Zones. International telephone and. felegraph
circuits passing through Germany have been
installed, and telecommunications - service
with other countries has received. quadri-
partite approval for resumption in. the near
future.

Progress in the restoration of Reichspost
services may be judged by. comparing cur-
rent operations with 1939 statistics, the last -
normal operating year of the former German.
Reichspost: Approximately 70 percent of the
subscriber telephones and 95 percent of the
telephone central offices have been ¥estored
to operation; long distance telephone traffic
is approaching the monthly volume handle
in that year; the volume of. letter mail-is' ap-
proximately 97 percent; newspaper deliveries
average 70 percent; and parcel post 34 per-
cent. At present the Reichspost:in the US
Zone employs more than 80,000. ‘persons;
monthly transactions in the post check
system amount to some two billion «marks;
the postal savings service is Ape active
use and monthly withdrawals and: deposits

(Continued:

--- Page 13 ---
PUBLIC

I periods of prosperity the welfare agen-
cies of a community take a back seat. The
number of persons who cannot take care of
their own needs is relatively small. It is in
times of depression, catastrophy, social up-
heaval, and scarcity that great numbers of
people find they need help. Welfare agen-
cies must meet this need or there will be
trouble trouble for the individual who
will suffer, and trouble for the community

which cannot risk the presence of a hungry.

VELFARE

restless element in its midst.

Germany waged a war and, in so doing,
acquired a huge welfare problem. Conse-
quenily the German welfare agencies, both
governmental and voluntary, have a great
responsibility for providing for those who
need help — the poor, the homeless, the
aged, the crippled, and the children who
need protection. Military Government is not
operational in the welfare field — that job
is a German job — but MG makes sure that

Children at the Wannsee Children’s Home absorb some early
morning sun as part of their health program. The patients include
cripples and refugees, from four weeks of age to 16 years.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 14 ---
programs are democratic in character and
adequate to prevent starvation, disease, and
unrest. The size of the welfare task han-
dled by German agencies is shown by the num-
ber of persons who are entirely dependent
upon these organizations for the essentials
of life, and the large sums of government
money spent in agency operations. Reports
for the month of November 1946, indicate
that more than 1,250,000 persons received
public assistance in the US occupied area
of Germany. About 270,000 children are
reported to be under the guardianship of
youth welfare offices in the US Zone and
45,000 children are in foster homes. Expend-
itures for public assistance in the US oc-
cupied area for November amounted to more
than RM 35,990,000 and it is estimated that

_ 22 percent of all governmental revenues to
be collected in the US Zone in the coming
year will be spent for the operation of wel-
fare programs.

Primary responsibility for the care of the:

million and a quarter needy persons rests
-on the local Kreis welfare offices which are
similar in many respects to the town and
county welfare offices in the United States.

1

These offices have carried the burden of
thousands of people who are without funds
and whose pension or social insurance pay-
ments stopped when the Third Reich fell.
They also have had to provide emergency
relief for the homeless and the refugees, and
have assisted the expellees in getting estab-
lished if they came without funds, proper
clothing, or minimum household equipment.
Although some of the social insurances have
been reestablished, there are still thousands
of physically-handicapped persons, widows
with children, and sick persons who require
assistance from the relief office in the cities
and counties.

While the figure of 270.000 children under
official guardianship in the US Zone indi-
cates the proportions of the jeb facing the
limited staff of public child-welfare work-
ers, it does not give a proper idea of the
wide responsibilities of the German youth
welfare offices for the well-being of children
in Germany. The county youth office (Kreis
Jugendamt) combines the work of juvenile
court probation officers in the United States
with the functions of a county child welfare
staff: It is responsible for homeless, orphan,

--- Page 15 ---
Signol Corps Photo’

pre-delinguent, abnormal, and dependent
children. This task is more difficult when
children’s workers lack the necessary train-
ing for their jobs and the schools, churches,
and private agencies are too poorly staffed
and equipped to ease the burden of the public
youth welfare offices.

The basic problems which face the Ger-
man welfare authorities are lack of compe-
‘tent personnel and lack of facilities, Due to
denazification and the interruption of spe-
cialized training during the Nazi regime,
it has been impossible, thus far, to secure
enough trained people to staff local welfare
offices. Because of the lack’ of space for
institutional and administrative purposes
and shortage of essential materials and sup-
plies, it is possible at the present time to
meet only the most pressing needs. It is

The noon meal at the Wannsee Home. The children are cared
for by a German welfare group operating under the supervision
of MG Public Welfare.

fortunate that while the National Socialist
Party took over and controlled the German
welfare structure, both public and private,
it did not transform the characteristic organi-
zation of the historic German welfare system.
The basic legislation and organization, which
provided Germany with a progressive welfare
system prior to the Nazi regime, have
enabled present German welfare authori-
ties to furnish relief and services which thus
far have contributed to the prevention of
undue unrest among the civil population.
MG policies which govern public welfare
operations in the US Zone are: Relief and
welfare services will be provided without
regard for race, creed, or political opinion;
these services will be provided to the ex-
tent necessary to prevent suffering and to
preserve the democratic dignity of the in-

--- Page 16 ---
dividual; child welfare programs will be
so administered that the democratic rights
of youth are observed for under-priyileged
children; refugees, expellees, and non-Ger-
man nationals not eligible for care as United
Nations displaced persons will be integrated
into the local population and given the same
consideration as the usual inhabitants of the
area; persons persecuted under the Nazi re-
gime will be granted the special welfare
benefits and priorities which have been au-
thorized for this group: special welfare prior-
ities or programs shall not be established
specifically for persons who were members
of the German armed forces or para-military
organizations; and private German welfare
agencies and institutions’ shall be ‘encour-
aged to supplement the governmental welfare
programs.

In order that MG public welfare policy
may be developed and uniformly implement-

a
ed in US occupied territory,'a Public’ Wel-
fare Branch was established at OMGUS.
This Branch consists of two major sections:
a Public Assistance Section anda Welfare Serv-
ices Section. The former is concerned with
German administration of relief provided at
public expense for those who are in need,
and with all matters relating to the im-
portation and distribution of foreign volun-
tary relief supplies. The Welfare Services
Sections is concerned with the problems of
private welfare agencies and institutions, the
resettlement of refugees and expellees. and
welfare personnel training. It also“has re-
sponsibility for the extensive programs of
child and youth welfare services. «In Berlin
and the Land OMG’s there is stationed a
staff of public welfare officers. MG Public
Welfare personnel perform these functions
at appropriate levels: Observe and inspect
German welfare administration, governmental

A German family inspects the. contents of a fen-in-one ration they have
just received; these gift packages ore made available through CARE
and are paid for by individual contributions from the United States.

(Continued on page 42)

“Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 17 ---
G= re-education requires the Ger-
mans to draw upon all their own resour-
ces and the Americans to give all possible
direction and aid in the reorganization of the
school system and the planning of youth
activities. Primary responsibility for the
occupational mission in accomplishing this
task rests with the Education and Religious
Affairs Branch, OMGUS. Its program is
greatly strengthened by the recent recom-
mendations of the US Education Mission
following an extensive survey throughout the
US occupied areas of Germany.

Structurally, the Branch consists of the
Office of the Branch Chief, with three
functional offices: Office of General Edu-
cational Institutions and Agencies, Office of
Special Educational Institutions and Agen-
cies, and Office of Religious Affairs. The
first is functionally subdivided into Element-
ary and Secondary School Section, Higher
and Theater Education Section, and Text-
books and Materials of Instruction Section.
The second is likewise constituted into three
sections: Technical and Vocational Education,
Adult Education, and Youth Activities.) The
Office of Religious Affairs is explained in
another article.

LAND AND QUADRIPARTITE SET-UP
For the most part paralleling the structure
of the Branch within OMGUS, an Education
R Religious Affairs Branch or Division
exist? in the US Sector of Berlin and in each
of the Laender. The Educational and Reli-
gious Affairs Branch, OMGUS, is a policy-
making body for the US Zone and, through

--- Page 18 ---
its quadripartite activities, for Germany as
a whole. Its four-power negotiations on edu-
cational matters are carried.on in regular
monthly meetings of the Allied Education
Committee within the Directorate of Internal
Affairs and Communications, and in periodic
working-parties established to study specific
problems.

The Education and Religious Affairs
Branch is the unit representing the relation-
ship of Military Government in the US Zone
to: All types of publicly and privately con-
trolled German schools including elementary,
intermediate, secondary, special, nursing,
vocational and technical, teacher-training,
universities, research institutes (except as
limited by ACA Law 25); post-school train-
ing; youth, sport, and physical training
activities; libraries, except commercial lend-

ing libraries; adult education; all churches
and religious groups; and any other formal
educational or religious matters involving the
objectives of Military Government in Ger-
many. Because of its wide and varied in-
terests, the Branch must necessarily work in
close cooperation with such other divisions,
branches, and sections of Military Govern-
ment as Information Control, Public Health
and Welfare, Communications, Research Con-
trol, and Civil Service.

With the coming of constitutional govern-
ment in the US Zone, the function of MG
Education Offices becomes largely one of
observation, inspection, reporting, and advis-
ing. Certain specific control responsibilities
will remain, however, by the very nature of
the occupation. Among these are the for-
mulation of education policy, the sponsoring

Students conduct an organic chemistry experiment in one of the laboratories of the
Munich Technische Hochschule. The institution corresponds to an American
technical university; it has nearly 5,000 students, one-third of which are women.

PRO OMGB Photo

--- Page 19 ---
Signal Corps Photo

of surveys, control of the selection and remov-
al of high German educational personnel,
control of the development and approval of
general curriculum patterns, policy control
of universities and institutions of higher
learning, control of youth program, and in-
terzonal and quadripartite responsibilities
with respect to German education.

An active discussion is in progress in the
US Zone concerning the future organization
of German education from the elementary
school to the university. The repeal of Nazi
educational legislation, the recent adoption
of Land Constitutions, and the formulation
of new aims and objectives — all combine to
make such reorganization imperative. New
educational legislation will be required in
every Land; and, while the responsibility
lies with the Germans, they need certain

16

MG Youth Activities OHicers discuss a phase of the program
for German youth at a training conferene of Army Youth
Activities personnel for Land Hesse.

guiding principles to assist them. The
Education and Religious Affairs Branch
recently furnished the Land Education
Ministries with a statement of such prin-
ciples. These principles not only indicate
specific educational policy but also, by im-
plication, point up some of the unacceptable
features of the traditional German system.

FEATURES OF NEW PLAN

The following are features which Military
Government will expect to be reflected in the
reorganization plans:

Education aims to include attainment of
democratic modes of living through stress on
social studies in all schools.

School attendance to be compulsory for all
from 6 to 15 years, part-time education com-
pulsory from 15 to 18 years.

--- Page 20 ---
Schools to form comprehensive system to
serve all children. Two-track system and
overlapping of schools to be eliminated.
“Elementary” and “Secondary” to mean two
consecutive levels, not two different types
of education.

Kindergartens to be a part of regular
school service. Consolidation of ungraded
schools wherever possible. Schools for |
grades 7 to 12 to be considered secondary |
schools. Larger secondary schools to offer
vocational courses as well as academic.

Part-time schooling to include reasonable
amount of general instruction as well as
vocational.

Where constitution provides, inter-de-
nominational and denominational schools to
be established side by side, with safeguards
for educational standards.

Teacher education to be on post-secondary
level. Salary schedules to be commensurate
with training.

Local community to have active part in

(Above) ‘Crailsheim ys. Langenberg: German boys play
American football in a game at the Neckar Stadium, Stuft-
gart-Bad Cannstatt. Instruction in American sports is one
phase of the MG Education program. (Left) Supervised play
is conducted for children of 3 fo 6 years of age af the
Frankfurt Nursery School; lack of space and heating facilities
are currently limiting the extent of the public education
program. Signal Corps Photos

school administration. All schools to be
maintained by general taxation.

Medical supervision and healih education
to be legally secured.

The US MG policy on education is a very
positive one. In the transition into the field
of advisory relationships it will become
more evident. The encouragement of demo-
cratic ideas and of international cooperation
clearly implies this. Every effort is being
made to procure US aid for German
educational work through student and pro-
fessorial exchange, the planned use of ap-

--- Page 21 ---
proximately 50 American specialists in the
various fields of education during the first
six months of 1947, the procuring of books
and muterials through American agencies,
the sponsoring of traveling libraries, the
establishment of eight curriculum and text-
book writing centers beginning January
1947, the operation jointly with ODIC of
some 30 Information Centers featuring
pictorial exhibits of American cultural in-
stitutions, the American sponsorship of youth
organizations, and the establishment of inter-
national relationships for German learned
societies and institutions through inter-
national conferences attended by Germans.

YOUTH COMMITTEES SET UP

The dissolution of the Hitler Youth left
several million young Germans between 10
and 18 years at loose ends as far as leisure-
time activities were concerned. The treat-
ment of this age group will, probably more
than anything else, determine the future of
Germany. Military Government has given
every encouragement to the formation of
positive and creative youth groups. To
prevent acceptible organizations from falling
into the hands of Nazi or militarist elements,
a Youth Committee, composed of responsible
citizens including a representative from the
Kreis Youth Office, has been organized in
every Kreis in the US Zone. These commit-
tees report regularly to the Land Youth
Committee which cooperates with the Land
Ministry of Education./A number of Kreis
Youth Committees, particularly in Hesse,
have already employed professional youth
workers for advising and supervising youth
activities.

DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES RESOLVED

As of 1 November 1946, there were in the
US Zone 6,621 approved youth groups with
718,192 members. An outstanding event was
the recent meeting of 500 representatives of
youth organizations in Hesse on historic
Hohe Meissner under the auspices of the
organization known as “Tag der Jungen Ge-
neration.” Their resolution calls upon Ger-
man youth in all parts of Germany “to form

18

youth rings based on democratic principles,
with the final aim an all-Germany youth
ring. German youth promises for the sake
of humanity to contribute all its good-will
and energy to help democracy, as well as
social equalization and world-wide peace, to
become a reality.”

Leaders and sponsors of youth groups
must meet the same denazification standards
applying to teachers; and former officers of
the German armed forces, applying for ad-
mission to teacher training institutions, are
denied permission to lead'and sponsor youth
groups. To prepare acceptable youth leaders,
training courses are offered throughout the
zone. Kassel held three training institutes
during August and September for youth
leaders in Greater Hesse. A similar center
held session at Coburg Castle in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, while the Bavarian Land Youth
Committee sponsored a similar program at
Kuehroint. The summer camps sponsored by
the YMCA, youth committees, and church
organizations, also contribute greatly to
leadership training.

INTEREST IN SPORTS

Sports engage the major interest of youth
groups everywhere. They have attracted
many thousands to championship meets from
local to Land level. For example, 278 soccer
games during a typical September week at-
tracted approximately 90,000 spectators. In
this connection the US Army German Youth
Assistance (GYA) program deserves’ special
mention. The conference called by Greater
Hesse MG youth officials at Assmanshausen
22-25 October was attended by 170 army
officers from the various commands; and at
the GYA conference called by the Theater
Commander in Frankfurt, 16—18 December,
the Army Youth Activities officers from the
major commands confered with OMGUS and
Land MG representatives on the future of
the Army Youth Program. The Army esti-
mates that approximately 700,000 German
boys and girls, in one way or another, have
been touched by the program, and ap-
proximately 1,000 army officers have been
specifically assigned to this work.

--- Page 22 ---
Youth Program Implemented

Policy for Furthering Political and Moral Reorientation in Germany
Outlined in Joint State-War-Navy Departments Statement in Washington

Mes designed to further political
and moral reorientation of German

youth towards democracy and peace were
outlined in a statement on “United States
policy on German youth activities” issued by
the US State, War, and Navy Departments
in Washington.

This policy, part of a program whose
general principles were set forth last August
in a long-range policy statement for German
re-education, integrates and extends the
programs inaugurated by the US Military
Government in Germany. One of its long-range
objectives is to help German youth overcome
“isolation which was imposed upon them
by the National Socialist regime.”

To attain the objectives, as well as to
encourage initative and active participation
of German youth in reconstruction of Ger-
man life, the policy statement sets forth a
16-point program which will encourage
formation of “voluntary youth groups free
of National Socialist and militarist tend-
encies.”

INTENSIFIED PROGRAM NEEDED

The need for an intensified, extensive pro-
gram was pointed out in the statement,
which reviewed the situation of German
youth on V-E Day after influences of war
and previous years of subjection to “nazified
system of education” and Hitlerism ‘master
race” philosophy. The Statement also reviewed
status of German youth under the occupation
and steps taken in the US Zone to reorient
juveniles and curb the spread of delinquency
and criminality.

Measures outlined in the policy statement

The above article was prepared by the US
Department of State and distributed in Ger-
many by the Office of Political Affairs, OM-
GUS, in its “Day Radio Bulletin” of 5 Feb-
ruary.

19

to implement the existing program include:

Formation of voluntary youth groups free
of National Socialist and militarist tenden-
cies, formed “as independent organiza-
tions and as part of, or in cooperation with,
authorized political, civic, religious or other
adult organizations,” shall be encouraged.

Aims and programs of these groups “shall
be consistent with democratic principles and
procedures.”

OPEN MEMBERSHIP STIPULATED

Several points deal with membership in
such groups, which shall not be contingent
on ethnic origin, social status, or financial
means; nor open to those who have held
leadership positions in Nazi organizations or
those convicted under law for liberation from
National Socialism and militarism,” or found
guilty of conduct hostile to Allied forces
(except in special cases where permissions
may be approved after a specific training
program and individual examination of the
applicant).

Other measures stipulate or recommend
that:

Organized activities for all youth “shall
be such as to provide experience in demo-
cratic practices,” to promote initiative,
freedom of expression, and fairness,

Provisions be made for citizenship educa-
tion to encourage the participation in com-
munity affairs; for a cultural. program to
familiarize German youth with democratic
ways of life and “with efforts of all nations
to contribute to moral and social progress;”
for the enlistment of voluntary cooperation
in community reconstruction projects; for the
vocational guidance and training to “enhance
economic and social usefulness” of youths.

Several points apply to the participation
of German authorities in helping to offer
qualified youth opportunities for performing

--- Page 23 ---
functions involving civic responsibility, and
for assisting US Military Government on
professional counsel and training for leaders.

Further measures outlined include:

“Youth committees” to promote commu-
nity interest in youth activities, to give youth
an opportunity to avail themselves of expert
guidance, educational and recreational facil-
ities and programs, and to facilitate cooper-
ation among different youth groups.

The US representative on the Allied Con-
trol Council to seek quadripartite agreement
on interzonal contact between organized and
unorganized youth.”

Expediting resumption of contacts between
German youth and youth outside Germany
by conferences, seminars, camps, work -pro-
jects, tours etc., “designed to promote inter-
national understanding and cooperation.”

Reviewing the situation at V-E Day, the state-
ment noted that “after 12 years of totali-
tarian dictatorship, there were few traditions
available inside Germany, to guide reorienta-
tion of the younger generation.” Nevertheless,
“corruptness and immorality of many Nazi

leaders, fallacies of Nazi doctrine, especially:
the race theory and anti-Christian bias and-

social demagoguery. . .” were resented by

a “small but determined faction” which pro-
vided the “nucleus of youth fundamentally
opposed to dictatorship in every form.”

ORIENTATION PROGRAM NOTED

The youth orientation work undertaken
by US Military Government also reviewed
in the policy statement, has been along these
lines:

Re-opening of schools; supervision of
youth activities by special officers in each
of the three Laender in the US Zone; stimu-
lation of contacts between American troops
and German young people (by USFET
directive of April 1946), which has included
sharing of sport facilities, mutual invitation
to athletic contests, gifts of equipment by the
US Army to German youth groups, aid in
rebuilding of youth hostels, organization of
handicraft classes, distribution of Army

rations at children’s fairs, promotion of de-
bates and discussions. in which Army per-
sonnel informed German youth about youth
of other countries and familiarized them with
democratic organization and procedures.

The lack of equipment and facilities still
has prevented many youth groups from devel-
oping their activities, it was pointed out,
so that “while it is impossible to ascertain
what juvenile deliquency would have been
if no program of youth activities had been
encouraged, the rate of such deliquency is
progressive” in all regions of the zone ‘in spite
of the program.

The conclusion was that “to what extent
spiritual and political reorientation of Ger-
man youth has made headway is doubtful,”
since the sometimes enthusiastic response to
these efforts thus far “has always come only
from a small minority.”

Among the various aims deemed necessary
in furthering the already initiated rehabilita-
tion of German youth is that German youth
should be provided with new moral, social,
and political incentives, the statement said.

Industrial Work Halted

The bulk of German industry in Wuert-
temberg-Baden shut down 10 February, be-
cause of the acute coal and electric power
shortage. This was ordered by the German
government following a meeting called by
the Minister of Economics and attended by
75 representatives of industrial plants, public
utilities, transportation, city and Land
governments.

The types of industry affected include:
automotive equipment and prime movers,
chemicals, heavy and light metals, building
materials, textiles, cameras, and other optical
equipment. Exceptions were food and food
processing plants, railroad car and equipment
repair shops, water pumps, and some special
plants such as tanneries and battery factories
where a complete shutdown would ruin
quantities of raw materials. Some plants
operating on their own water power con-
tinued to operate.

--- Page 24 ---
The Army’s program for German youth
activities is helping German youngsters learn
democratic methods in their organizations
and recreational activities. About 300 of-
ficers and enlisted men, assigned to the sole
duty of implementing the Army program,
work with MG’s Education and Religious
Affairs representatives in organizing youth
activities through German youth leaders and
committees at Land and Kreis level. About
1,200 additional military personnel assist on

a voluntary part-time basis.

Of the more than two million youth in the
US Zone between the ages of 10 and 18,
about 28 percent are enrolled in organized
youth activities. Every Kreis in the Zone
now has an organized Youth Activities com-
mittee. The program fosters informal events
such as picnics, motion pictures, excursions,
and sporting events, under Army and MG
sponsorship. Typical activities are pictured
on this and the following pages.

--- Page 25 ---
(Above) A WAC sergeant teaches two German

children an American dance step at a youth (Below) German children watch with

meeting in Frankfurt Signal Corps Photo terest a Gl show sponsored by the
Red Cross In Grohn. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 26 ---
(Above) Two members of the Constabulary share candy

with the German children at a ,,Kinderfest’’ held by the

Constabulary near Plentigen Signal ‘Corps Photo «Sports Week" activities which featured events for both
youngsters and oldsters. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 27 ---
reedom of religious belief and worship

“and respect for ecclesiastical institutions

"are basic to a free society. The keynote. of

- American religious policy in Germany, there-
fore, has been to assure the development and
maintenance of genuine religious freedom in
which a better Germany might arise.

From the beginning, the fields of education
and religious affairs have been combined ad-
ministratively in the US ‘Military Govern-
ment organization. An Education and Relig-
-ious Affairs Branch or Division exists in
OMGUS, the US Sector. of Berlin, and in
each of the Laender. There aré’no religious
affairs officers below the Land level.

Each Land Education and Religious Affairs
Branch has a specialist in religious affairs
who is responsible to his Land E&RA chief,
and is in charge of MG activities relating to
ecclesiastical institutions. He maintains a
functional relationship with the Office of
Religious Affairs, OMGUS, in Berlin.

Since all “operational activities” have been —
turned over to the appropriate German gov-.
ernmental authorities and the duties of the
Religious Affairs Officer are to observe, in-
spect, and advise, it has become important
that close liaison be maintained with the Ger-
man Land ministries. In addition to working
in close cooperation with the latter, however,
the Land Religious Affairs Officer also main-
tains regular contact directly with the leading
ecclesiastical dignitaries in his area. This

. dual approach is essential to the attainment
~ of MG objectives in Germany.

The Office of Religious Affairs in OMGUS

s a unit of the Education and Religious

airs Branch, Internal Affairs and Com-

unications Division. At its head is a chief

--- Page 28 ---
who has the following three sub-sections
under his direction: Evangelical Affairs,
Catholic Affairs, and Church Finance and
Minor Sects. The Office of Religious Affairs,
OMGUS, is a policy-making body for the
US Zone and, through its quadripartite activ-
ities, for Germany as a whole. Its four-
power negotiations are carried on with the
Soviet, French, and British in regular
monthly meetings of the Allied Religious
Affairs Committee and in periodic working-
parties established to study specific problems.

The work of the respective Religious
Affairs officers has involved frequent contacts
with other branches of Military Government
because of the wide ramifications of church
life in Germany. Two large private welfare
organizations, the Catholic Caritas Verband
and the Evangelisches Hilfswerk, are oper-
ated by churches and many problems have
arisen which have called for cooperation be-
tween Religious Affairs and Public Welfare
officers of Military Government. Similarly
denazification, security, and travel problems
have led to frequent contacts with Public
Safety officers; church tax matters with
Finance officers; and religious publications
with Information Control officers.

The position the church holds in Germany
is quite different from that of religious insti-
tutions in the United States. Although there
is no single church which has been granted
special status by governmental authority,
there nevertheless have been strong ties be-
tween church and state in the German tra-
dition. For more than a century the major
ecclesiastical bodies have exercised the right
to utilize the taxation machinery of the state
for collecting contributions from their re-
spective members, and grants and subsidies
have long been paid to churches from public
funds. A separation of church and state com-
parable to that in the United States has
existed only in the case of the so-called Free
Churches (Baptist, Methodist, etc.) and the
minor religious groups.

A post-war view of the Frauenkirche (Church
of Our Lady) in Munich; its two Gothics tower
have been the characteristic sign for Munich
tor 500 years. Photo by Byers

--- Page 29 ---
The 1939 census revealed that approxi-
mately 95 percent of all Germans were
church members, but it must be remembered
that every German is listed as a church
member unless he has taken definite steps
before the public authorities to have his name
stricken from the rolls. Approximately 61
percent of the population of Germany proper
in 1939 belonged to the Evangelical Church,
comprising Lutheran, Reformed, and United
churches, and about one third was Roman
Catholic. In the US Zone today it has been
estimated that 43 percent of the population
is Evangelical and 53 percent are Catholic,
with the heaviest concentration of the latter
in Bavaria.

RELIGIOUS FREEDOM PRIME GOAL

Within the traditional framework of
German ecclesiastical customs, MG has set
about eliminating all taint of Nazism and
establishing religious freedom. This policy
is carried out through a guarantee of un-
restricted right of assembly for purposes of
religious worship, through assistance ren-
dered to church leaders in. traveling to
church conferences, through encouragement
and help granted toward resumption of con-
tacts with religious forces abroad, and
through careful analysis, prior to enactment,
of all Land constitutions and statutes which
are to affect the religious life of Germany in
years to come.

To further implement the policy of relig-
ious freedom, all discriminatory anti-
Semitic laws have been abolished, and the
Reich law of 14 July 1933 concerning the
constitution of the Evangelical Church has
been eliminated. The Nazi policy of state
interference with the internal affairs of ec-
clesiastical institutions has thus been sup-
planted by a policy of leaving such matters
to the churches themselves.

Another major objective in the field of re-
ligious affairs has been the elimination of
Nazi influences from the religious institutions
of Germany. The first phase of implement-
ation, now virtually finished, has had to do
with the problem of denazifying the clergy,

26

a task which was performed by action on the
part of the churches themselves, by direct
action of Military Government in certain in-
stances, and by the Spruchkammern establish-
ed under the Law for Liberation from Na-
tional Socialism and Militarism. The current
phase of implementation centers about main-
taining constant vigilance to detect any
misuse of religious institutions as a cloak for
Nazi or other subversive activities. This
function is performed by Religious Affairs
officers in cooperation with other MG agen-
cies directly concerned with the problem of
security. Particular attention in this regard
is paid to the activities and literature of cer-
tain lesser religious groups for possible de-
velopment of suspicious ideas.

A third major goal of the Religious Affairs
section has been to expedite the return of
sequestered church property to ecclesiastical
use as soon as practicable. During the Nazi
period considerable church property was
taken over by the Reich, and some of the
minor religious groups were, in fact, subjec-
ted to complete liquidation of their assets.
Many complicated problems have arisen in
connection with claims for the return of
such property, and Land Religious Affairs
Officers have devoted a substantial portion of
their time, in cooperation with Property Con-
trol Officers, to their equitable solution.

A closely related series of problems has
arisen in connection with church finance.
Military Government was faced early in the
occupation with the question of whether or
not the collection of the traditional church
taxes would be permitted in the future. The
question of state grants and subsidies to
churches also came to the fore. Although
American tradition is not favorably inclined
toward such relations between church and
state, it was felt that there is nothing essen-
tially undemocratic about the arrangements,
and a Military Government policy has there-
fore been adopted which allows the continued
existence of the old system if the Germans
so desire. Religious Affairs officers keep
themselves informed regarding these church-
state financial relations with a view to in-

--- Page 30 ---
A memorial plaque is dedicated in a synagogue in- Frankfurt to
“six million Jewish victims of Nazi brutality, 1933-1945."

the

suring the equitable adjustment of problems
which arise.

A further goal has been to facilitate the
reestablishment of a free religious press in
Germany which had been systematically
sabotaged by the Nazis since 1933 and almost
completely liquidated during the war. While
the religious press is primarily a problem of
Information Control, Religious Affairs
officers have assisted in developing criteria
for the evaluation of religious publications,
in discussing with church leaders the most
economical methods of using paper alloca-
tions, and in facilitating the importation of
donations of paper, pulpwood, and religious
literature from churches abroad. Religious
Affairs officers are interested in the religious
press also as a source of information regard-
ing trends of religious thought in Germany.
In the ‘realm of religious education in
public schools, MG has sought to conform

Signal Corps Photo

to the desire of the German people. The
basic policy was originally drawn up by the
Allied Religious Affairs Commitiee and later
implemented in the US Zone by a special
directive which permits the establishment of
denominational publicly-supported schools
and provides that no school drawing on
public funds shall refuse children the op-
portunity of receiving religious instruction.
The functions of Religious Affairs officers in
this connection have been to ascertain
whether or not the directive is being observed
and to assure that democratic procedures are
being followed.

The religious institutions of Germany have
played an important part in determining the
nature of German culture in the past. The
role that they are to play in shaping a demo-
cratic future for Germany is being determined
to some extent by the work currently car-
ried on by MG’s Religious Affairs Officers.

--- Page 31 ---
a 2

to = duction of bare necessities such as food, cloth-
Pe fuel, soap, and shelter in the US Zone
; i

(hs main objective of Public Health is to
reestablish health services and facilities
in the US Zone by helping the Germans to
help themselves.

Communicable diseases, particularly those
of an epidemic nature, must be controlled
and health hazards interfering with Military
Government or threatening other countries
must be eliminated.- Toward those objectives
German health agencies are working, under
the guidance of MG officials. US Public
Health officers also seek to remove health,
medical, and para-medical affairs from po-
litical influence and establish them on a
permanently democratic basis; to decentralize
all German medical activities to Land, Re-
gierungsbezirk, and Kreis levels; to give
technical and humanitarian guidance to med-
ical education and research; and to utilize
to the fullest extent German medical and
sanitary supplies and services.

Public Health serves a dual purpose in the
occupation of Germany—military and civil.
Under Army regulations, it is responsible for
the prevention and control of disease among
Germans so that occupation forces will be
protected. As civil administrator, Public
Health must implant in German civil govern-
ment full recognition that the highest attain-
able standard of health is a fundamental
right of every human being, without political,
economic, or social distinction.

To reach these US objectives in Germany,

© the German medical and health services must

be rehabilitated and the German population

- made self-sufficient at the earliest possible

time. Since the war ended, the total pro-

--- Page 32 ---
has not been sufficient to maintain the pop-
ulation, and many supplies have had to be
furnished by occupation forces. Epidemics,
disease, and disability in the civil population
reduce its productivity and impose a burden
on the economy.

Within the organizational structure of
OMGUS, problems pertaining to Public
Health are the responsibility of the Public
Health Branch, administered by the Internal
Affairs and Communications Division. This
Branch, shortly after the war ended, had
under its operational control two Medical
Groups authorizing 233 Medical Department
officers and 569 enlisted personnel for field
operations in the US Zone and the US Sector
of Berlin. As local health offices reopened,
the Germans were given authority in civil
health affairs and the US personnel and
Medical Groups were released.

The Branch, as now administered, is head-
ed by a chief, with a deputy and specialist

Patients at the Neurod Hospital are exposed to
sun and fresh air as part of their treatment.

consultants in the various fields of publie
health administration, These include Pre-
ventive Medicine, Venereal Disease Control,
Environmental Sanitation, Nutrition, Nurs-
ing Affairs, Veterinary Affairs, Biostatistics,
and supporting administrative and clerical
personnel. This Branch acts as the public
health staff for OMGUS and is responsible
for keeping the Deputy Military Governor
informed on all public health activities per-
taining to MG in the US Zone.

Each of the Land Offices of Military Gov-
ernment has a small public health staff which
consists of MG public health officer, deputy,
and clerical personnel. These staffs keep the
local MG directors informed on all public
health activities within their areas of juris-
diction, advising them on Public Health
plans, policies, directives, and technical mat-
ters. They observe and review the activities
of the German public, health agencies, para-
medical activities and medical, dental, nurs-

Signal Corps Photo

GR

--- Page 33 ---
Signal Corps Photo

An MG Nursing Consultant discusses public nursing problems with the chief Red Cross
nurses of the US Zone Laender at a meeting of the German Red Cross in Offenbach.

ing, veterinary, and apothecary affairs, and
are supported in inspecting, advising, and
reporting on such activities by the technical
consultants from the Public Health Branch
of OMGUS in Berlin.

Under MG policy, the Public Health func-
ition now puts full responsibility on the Ger-
man authorities. They must maintain a com-
petent health organization responsible in their
respective localities for eliminating actual and
potential communicable disease hazards;
maintaining a system for rapid collection,
analysis, publication, and distribution of
health reports; providing a system for pro-
curing and distributing medical and sanitary
supplies; supplying medical laboratory serv-
ices for early discovery of communicable dis-
eases; maintaining an organization to pre-
vent the spread of dangerous diseases by ref-
ugees and displaced persons; and providing

emergency hospital facilities, medical per-
sonnel, and transportation in the event of a
serious epidemic.

The MG public health officers for Bavaria,
Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden, Bremen, and
US Sector of Berlin keep watch over the
activities of the German civil public health
agencies by studying information from the
top German civil health officer for the area.
Most of the information comes from a uni-
form reporting system through which vital
statistics and data on public health are sub-
mitted by the Germans to the MG Land Of-
fices. Most of these reports follow the pre-
scribed form and subject matter used in
national or international health reporting
systems. Military Government thus receives
a continuous picture of the occurrence of
epidemic diseases, particularly tuberculosis,
venereal diseases, diphtheria, and typhoid

--- Page 34 ---
fever; of the number and quality of medical
and health personnel; of the quantity and
quality of medical and health facilities such
as hospitals and clinics; and of the health
and nutrition of the German population. Ad-
ditional information is obtained by interviews
and weekly conferences between MG and
German civil public health authorities and
by inspection of places where health prob-
lems may arise. When US officers observe
deficiencies detrimental to occupation forces
ot jeopardizing MG objectives, German
authorities are informed and must report the
measures taken to correct the defects.
Besides observing, inspecting, reporting.
and advising on public health matters in the
German civil population, MG Public Health
staffs are occupied in staff coordination with
practically all other MG functions. For ex-
ample, matters related to medical supplies
in Germany must be discussed with the In-
dustry and Trade and Commerce Branches of

Economics 'Division. The quantity and quali-
ty of food stocks for the German civil pop-
ulation must be coordinated with the Food
and Agriculture Branch of Economics Di-
vision.

Public Health has initiated action to ob-
iain medical supplies furnished by the United
States for prevention of disease and unrest in
the US Zone. It has conducted surveys and
studies on the nutritional siate of the Ger-
man population and recommended the quan-
tity and quality of maintenance diets. Al-
though Public Health does not supply the
food for 16,000,000 Germans, it does have
technical supervision of dietary standards
and makes a continuous appraisal of the
nutritional state of the population for signs
of malnutrition. By determining how serious
it is and how rapidly it is progressing,
Public Health can recommend how mal-
nutrition may be corrected in the most econ-
omical way. A considerable portion of US

PhysiciansZand assistents conduct a blood test of a woman suspect at
the VD Treatment Center laboratory in Stuttgart. If found to be infect-
ed, the woman is confined te a dormitory and treated with penicillin.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 35 ---
expenditures on German imports has been
based at least partially on needs for healih
or to prevent disease and unrest.

The Public Health function is operated on
a quadripartite level through an Allied
Health Committee which consists of delegates
from the Public Health staffs of each of the
occupying powers. Their actions are direct-
ed toward accomplishing uniform and_co-
ordinated health operations in the four zones
of occupation, Public Health operates on a
bizonal level chiefly to coordinate imporis
and exports of materials essential to health
in the British and US Zones. The Combined
Nutrition Surveys that have been conducted
by the US, British, and French Public
Health staffs have sided in maintaining a
uniform standard of nutrition for the popula-
tion of the three zones.

All essential civil health positions are
filled and the German health organizations
in the Zone are functioning, according to
official reports. However, there has been
little progress in strengthening civil health
staffs with better trained and more aggres-
sive officials required to cope adequately
with the serious problems confronting Ger-
man governmental authorities. There con-
tinues to be a shortage of trained specialists,
particularly in the field of tuberculosis
control and treatment. There are adequate
numbers of active general medical practi-
tioners and related professional personnel to
care for the ordinary needs of the popula-
tion. Communicable disease control con-
tinues at a barely satisfactory level. “The
control of communicable animal diseases
continues to be reasonably satisfactory.

(Let) The chief physician and chief nurse exomirne
2 patient in a Berlin tuberculosis hospital located in
the building which once housed the Reichsluftschutz
Schule. (Below) A nurse at the hospital in Neurod
prepares fo assist with an operation. Stonel Gores Photos

--- Page 36 ---
German Deficiencies Listed

Rights of Refugees, Capable Personnel for Public Offices, Immediate
Recruiting for Coal Mines mentioned by Deputy Military Governor

(In addressing the seventeenth meeting of the
Laenderrat at Stuttgart 4 February, Lt. Gen.
Lucius D. Clay, DMG, spoke as follows:)

have no major item to take up with you,

but a number of minor items which
together will aggregate considerable impor-
tance. First, however, I would like to
welcome Land Bremen here today in its new
capacity as a Land or state. This, I think,
materially clarifies the position which
Bremen has in its political control and
relationship with the American and British
Zones. At least, Land Bremen will no
longer feel that it is subject to taxation with-
out representation.

Another matter which I do want to bring
to the personal attention of the Ministers
President: We are receiving increasing
reports of the hostility and harsh treatment
by the German population of the refugees
who have been received from Czechoslovakia
and Hungary. These people are with you.
They must be absorbed and your good
citizenship in the future depends on the
manner in which you absorb them. If it
continues as at present, you will be establish-
ing a minority group fostering hatred and
hostility for years. You should know the
difficulties that minority groups have caused
in the past. It seems to me that a real
measure of your determination to solve this
problem must be shown now. I urge your
consideration of a program specifically
designed to receive and accept these people
under favorable conditions.

In the agricultural field I must also ask
that you give your consideration now to
helping Dr. Dietrich and his staff to see that
there is an increase in spring planting to
make up for the failure to meet fall quotas.
He also will require your assistance in seeing
that the livestock reduction program is met,
and, finally, he will need your help in

33

getting an adequate and competent staff to
enable him to accomplish his mission. Hav-
ing made those remarks about the Food and
Agriculture Committee, I must also make it
apply to all the Bizonal agencies.

I am chagrined to have to say that the
participation of capable German administra-
tors from the American Zone on the bizonal
committees is chiefly distinguished by their
absence. The economic future of both Zones
rests in the hands of those committees. The
representatives on those committees from the
American Zone are responsible to you as
Ministers President. The committee cannot
do their job without adequate representation
from south Germany. Their staff must have
people on it who are familiar with the
resources and facilities of south Germany.
I urge and request your assistance in getting
adequate staffs for these agencies.

With respect to denazification, I have only
a minor request to make of you today. I see
a perceptible strengthening of will to do the
job. All of the good will in the world is of
little avail without personnel and facilities.
I urge the Ministers President to give con-
sideration to legislation which will enable
the drafting of personnel where such legisla-
tion is not already enacted. Where the
authority exists, as in Bavaria, I urge the
drafting of personnel. In addition, we must
ask the Ministers President to give a priority
to the denazification tribunals and pros-
ecutors for the facilities and equipment to
do the job.

Military Government will aid in every
way possible in providing such facilities and
assistance. We think it of equal importance
that the administrative load be expedited so
that those who are exonerated under the law
will receive notification at the earliest pos-
sible date, thus leaving in the hands of the
prosecutors and Spruchkammern only those
cases subject to trial. It is when we have

--- Page 37 ---
accomplished this that we shall be able to
evaluate the remainder of the load.

The only other matter that I have to take
up with you today is the problem of recruit-
ing for the coal mines which I took up with
you at Minden. I might say that the in-
creased coal production which was recorded
at Minden while you were there has con-
tinued. Unfortunately, as a result of the
extremely cold weather and with the water-
ways frozen, the railroads have been unable
to carry the increased burden. This is a
temporary condition which will no longer
exist when we have warm weather and the

* waterways and canals are open. It does not

lessen, but, in fact, increases our need for
labor in the mines. As you know, the point
system now in effect in the mines offers a
considerable incentive. I, therefore, urge
that you work out as quickly as possible a
coordinated, directed program to accomplish
this purpose. You know that fifty thousand
coal miners from the south are the immediate
and urgent need. While it has not been very
long since we were in Minden together, there
have not been very many recruits obtained
since then. This is a matter of urgency and
I wish that you would give it your im-
mediate attention. Again, Military Govern-
ment will render any assistance it can.

New Export Procedure Established

New procedures for the conclusion of ex-
port contracts involving the granting of
facilites “on an increasing scale” to foreign
buyers who wish to make direct contact with
German manufacturers have been agreed
upon in Minden by the Joint Export-Import
Agency. The agreement states:

1. The US and British Governments, hav-
ing entered into an agreement for the
economic fusion of the American and British
Zones of Germany, the aim of which is the
achievement before the end of 1949 of a self-
sustaining economy for the area, announce
that they have agreed to a new procedure
for the arrangement of export contracts,
which becomes effective forthwith.

2. Control of foreign exchange and the
regulation of external trade are matters
which must remain in Allied hands. The
Joint Export-Import Agency at Minden has
therefore been established for this purpose.

3. The Agency is establishing branch of-
fices in the Land capitals throughout the
area and in Berlin and, when necessary, in
other commercial centers. These offices have
power to sign export contracts.

4. Facilities will be given on an increas-
ing scale for foreign buyers to make direct
contact with German manufacturers and ex-
ports. Transportation, accommodation, and
communications facilities will be improved
as rapidly as possible for this purpose.

34

5. German traders may prepare contracts
of sale with foreign buyers either by per-
sonal negotiation or through the non-trans-
actional mail. The contract must include
certain clauses approved by the Export-
Import Agency. Copies of these standard
clauses will be available shortly at branch
offices of the agency and at the offices of
the Minister of Economics in each Land.

6. When the contract has been completed
and signed by the German seller, it will be
transmitted by him to the Minister of Eco-
nomics in the Land in which his business is
situated, who will examine the contract ac-
cording to certain principles to be laid down
by the Executive Committee for Economics.
If the contract appears to the Minister to
conform to these principles, the Minister or
his authorized representative will sign the
contract to indicate that he is prepared to
give such assistance as lies in his power to
secure its fulfillment.

7. The contract will then be sent to the
appropriate office of the Export-Import
Agency and if approved will be signed by
the agency. The necessary export license
will then be issued.

8. The above is an interim procedure only,
the intention of the US and British Govern-
ments being that direct contracts between
German and foreign business firms shall be
permitted as soon as possible.

--- Page 38 ---
First industrialist Indicted
On War Crimes Charges

An indictment charging the commission
of war crimes and crimes against humanity
on a vast scale was filed with the OMGUS
Military Tribunals at Nuremberg 8 February
against Friedrich Flick, 63, leading German
industrialist and, until Germany’s collapse,
one of the wealthiest men in the nation.
With Flick were indicted Otto Steinbrinck,
Konrad Kaletsch, Bernhard Weiss, and
Hermann Terberger, his chief assistants in
the combine which controlled the largest
private iron-steel manufacturing enterprise
in Germany.

The indictment is the first war crimes
case against Germany’s industrial leaders.
Flick never became widely known to the
general public or outside of Germany, largely
because of his own shunning of publicity.
However, his iron, steel and coal empire
became larger than that of Krupp’s, and
Flick was probably the most important iron
and steel magnate in Germany.  Flick’s
combine expanded rapidly during the 30's
and throughout the war until it included
industrial plants all over Germany.

Flick’s control was exercised through a
parent holding company known as the Fried-
rich Flick Kommanditgesellschaft, ‘formed
in 1937. This holding company acquired,
controlled, and operated coal and iron mines,
blast furnaces and smelting, coking and

chemical plants, including plants for the -

production of synthetic fuel; rolling mills
and factories for the manufacture of finished
steel products, including ammunition and
other armaments, airplanes and airplane
parts, motor trucks and railroad rolling stock.

The indictment contains five counts. Under
the first count, all five of the defendants are
accused of having participated in and prof-
ited by the German slave labor program, the
administration of which led the International

35

tence on Fritz Sauckel and to

Albert Speer to prison for 20 years. The
defendants are said to have worked with
Sauckel and Speer in enslaving and deporting
millions of French, Poles, Russians, and
others to Germany to man the German war
machine.

In count two, all of the defendants except
Terberger are charged with plunder and
spoliation in the countries overrun by the
Wehrmacht. In the wake of the advancing
German armies, and under plans laid in ad-
vance of military operations, Flick and his
associates are said to have gained a strong-
hold on ithe industrial enterprises of the
countries occupied. They seized industrial
properties both by direct confiscation and
under the guise of seemingly legal trans-
actions.

The third count charges Flick, Steinbrinck,
and Kaletsch with having instigated and
benefited by the ruthless racial policy of the
German government which forced Jews to
transfer all or part of their property to non-
Jews, a process usually referred to as “Ary-
anization.” In the fourth count, Flick and
Steinbrinck are accused of supporting the
criminal activities of Heinrich Himmler’s SS,
and of having contributed huge sums of
money to the SS and to Himmler. In the
fifth count, Steinbrinck alone is charged
with actual membership, with the rank of
brigadier general, in the SS, which the
International Military Tribunal declared a
criminal organization.

Personnel Changes

Dwight P. Griswold, former governor of
Nebraska, has assumed his post as Director
of the Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS. The Division was pre-
viously headed by Sumner Sewall, appointed
two months ago Director of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

--- Page 39 ---
Printed Matter Permitted

Volunteer mailing of printed matter from
the United States to the US Zone of Ger-
many has been authorized, Communications
Branch, Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS, has announced.

Printed matter, which includes books and
periodicals, is accepted by post offices in the
United States for addressees residing in the.
Zone. Parcels may not exceed 4.4 pounds in
weight, as prescribed by Universal Postal
Union regulations governing this classifica-
tion of international mail.

New Decartelization Laws

Similar decartelization laws have been
approved by the US and British Military
Governments for their respective zones in
accordance with Paragraph 12 of the Pots-
dam Agreement. These laws are modeled
after the Sherman Anti-Trust Act in the Uni-
ted States and provide a basis for the devel-
opment of free and competitive German in-
dustrial economy.

Both laws provide for the elimination of
companies with more than 10,000 employees,
unless such companies prove they are not
“execessive concentrations’ of economic
power. German participation in international
and domestic cartel arrangements is pro-
hibited, and combines in restraint of trade
are outlawed.

Taxi Service in Berlin

“Taxibal, Inc.,” a German operated com-
mercial taxi company in Berlin for exclusive
use of American personnel and their com-
panions, will go into operation in the near
future, under a plan worked out by OMGUS
and US Army authorities. About 100 owner-
operated cabs are being made ready; at least
60 of these will be ready to operate opening
day.

Under the provisions of the plan, Army
Exchange Service will sell coupons of
Reichsmark value to US personnel for dollar
script; the proceeds will then go to the Ex-
port-Import Section of OMGUS, which will
pay the taxi company in Reichsmarks and

36

deposit the balance. of returns, less operating
costs for imported fuel and spare parts, in
the Export-Import Account, It is estimated
that a least 300,000 dollars a year will go
into the account from the new company, Gas
and oil for operations will be purchased from
the US Army on a dollar basis. The German
government of the US Sector of Berlin will
be responsible for enforcing the terms of the
company’s license, under the supervision of
OMG Berlin Sector. «

“Taxibal” will be available to Americans
in Berlin for personal or official use for as
long a time as is desired. Cabs will be equip-
ped with meters, with rates set at about
10/2 cents for the first kilometer, 6 cents
for each additional KM, and 90 cents for
each hour of waiting time. They will be
available from 0600 to 0200 daily.

Prison Population

A drop of 21 percent in the prison popu-
lation of the US Zone of Germany during the
last six months of 1946 was disclosed by the
Legal Division, OMGUS, as the number of
prisoners on 1 January had declined to
21,315, the lowest total for the past year.

The steady downward trend of prison
population from the high mark of 27,579 in
August has lessened the problem of over-
crowding in the prison institutions.

The increased use of bail for prisoners
awaiting trial, the operation of zonal and
Land clemency and review boards and the
special Christmas commutation of sentences
were contributing factors to the reduction of
prison population in the US Zone, OMGUS
prison officials stated.

Accreditation for Pilots

American military pilots now may obtain
commercial and private pilot accreditation
and certain special ratings in the European
Theater without having to go to the United
States, under a plan announced by the
Aviation Branch, Armed Forces Division,
OMGUS. Applicants must submit evidence
of fitness and also take written examinations
on civil air regulations.

--- Page 40 ---
US ZONE MG_ ACTIVITIES

Activities and operations of. German co-
operatives in Wuerttemberg-Baden were dis-
cussed by a group of British, Soviet, and
Swiss leaders of the International Coopera-
tive Alliance at a conference in Stuttgart 5

February with representatives of the Laender.

of the US Zone and MG officials. The group,
after an inspection of cooperative plants and
local tours in the area, planned to visit the
French Zone.

The Social Democratic Party gained com-
plete control of the Bizonal Economics Agen-
cy with the appointment of Dr. Viktor Agartz
as its chairman. He succeeded Dr. Rudolf
Mueller, a Christian Democrat, who resigned
after a vote of non-confidence by the Bizonal
Economics Executive Committee, composed
of the eight Economics Ministers, all Social
Democrats.

To combat increased poaching and thefts
of wood, rural area patrols have been inten-
sified in Wuerttemberg-Baden. Rural police
also have been provided skis to enable con-
tinued patrols over deep snow.

FOOD SHIPMENTS FROM US

A total of 193,500 metric tons of food-
stuffs, mostly grain and flour, arrived from
the United States during January for feeding
Germans in the US occupied areas of Ger-
many. This was the largest food shipment
received ‘during any one month since the

" beginning of the occupation.

The US and British Zones continued the
1,550 caloric ration into the 98th ration
period, which began 3 February.

Production of hard‘coal in the Ruhr con-
tinued upward, despite freezing weather and
restricted transportation. On 28 January,
the daily output reached a new post-war
peak at 222,771 metric tons. However, this
was only about half of the average daily
output in 1938.

The German Executive Committee for
Transport was: instructed, through the Bi-
partite Transport Control Group, to place
sufficient power on the Berlin line of com-

37

munications to move 16 trains to Berlin
daily. This was considered the absolute min-
imum necessary for movement of essential
utility fuel, good supplies, and personnel.

The first German export contract at Land
level in the US Zone under the new bizonal
program was completed with the signing in
Stuttgart of a 430,000 dollar contract for the
sale of four huge water turbines and accesso-
ries to the Norwegian Government. The
contract was signed by representatives of
the Norwegian Government, the German
Land government of Wuertiemberg-Baden,
and OMG WB.

RAIL BRIDGES RESTORED
Out of a total of 10,570 railroad bridges
in the Zone, 10,529 or 99.3 percent, are now
in Operation. At the start of occupation, 938
bridges were damaged or destroyed. A total
of 261 highway bridges were reconstructed
under MG supervision during 1946.
Consumption of electric power in January,
according to preliminary reports, totaled
480,768,000 KWH, five percent lower than
in December but three percent higher than
in January a year ago. Hydrogeneration ac-
counted for 43 percent last month, as com-
pared with 66 percent a year before, due
principally to milder weather.

COLD THREATENS ART WORKS

Continuation of the fuel shortage threaten-
ed serious damage to valuable art objects at
the Wiesbaden Collecting Point.. As a pre-
cautionary measure, the frailest and most
valuable pieces have been concentrated in a
storage gallery which is least susceptible to
temperature changes.

Labor registration in the US Zone reached
9,388,866 at the end of 1946. The total
employment amounted to 6,417,594, of whom
4,042,899 were men and 2,374,695 were
women. Unemployed totaled 317,702 men
and 170,575 women, while 2,482,995 persons,
chiefly women, were classified as unem-
ployable.

--- Page 41 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts trom official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

French Occupation Francs

The introduction of the French Occupation
Francs as a medium of exchange in the
French Zone and the conditions under which
they can be obtained by American personnel
are cited in OMGUS letter, AG 123.7 (AG),
“French Occupation Francs,” dated 4 Feb-
ruary 1947. The use of the French Occu-
pation Franc is similar to that of the Military
Payment Cetrificates of the US Armed For-
ces and the special vouchers of the British
Armed Forces. Pertinent excerpts from the
letter are as follows:

“In accordance with provisions of War
Department Circular 256, 1946, the occupa-
tion franc is considered a foreign currency
and may not be exchanged at US Army
Finance offices for Military Payment Certif-
icates, dollars, or dollar instruments, or
other foreign currenies. Authorized person-
nel may purchase francs from US Army
Finance offices located at: Frankfurt, Stutt-
gart, Karlsruhe, Berlin, and Vienna. Mini-.
mum amounts should be purchased since re-
conversion is not permitted. French Occu-
pation Francs must be purchased prior to
entry into French Occupied Zones, as they
cannot be obtained through French finance
agencies.”

For Information Only

The Personnel Office, OMGUS, in a cable
V-13637, dated 31 January, said: Informa-
tion has reached this headquarters that cen-
tain OMGUS field agencies are complying
with Third US Army circulars and similar
directives which require personnel reports
from assigned units. Such publications are
distributed to Office of Military Government

38

units for information only and are not to
be made the basis for submission of person-
nel reports except for military personnel re-
ports of Office of Chief Counsel.

Speedier Notification Advised

Speedier issuance of notification of non-
incrimination to persons found not charge-
able under the German Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Militarism was
requested by Public Safety Branch, [A&C
Division, OMGUS, in a cable V-13654, dated
31 January. The cable continued:

“From reports on issuance of such noti-
fications it is apparent that insufficient atten-
tion is being given to this operation and that
a very considerable backlog has arisen. This
phase of the operation of the Law for Liber-
ation is to be regarded as important and
urgent since clearance or non-clearance under
denazification vitually affects the political,
economic, and even social status of regis-
trants.

“Special Branch offices and the Ministry
for Liberation will be instructed to. take
measures to accelerate this program and to
expedite action on such cases. Report on
number of persons found apparently not
chargeable, and number of persons reviewed
by Special Branch and issued notifications
of non-incrimination will be included in MG/
PS/10/F report for month of January.”

Adult Aid URGED in GYA

USFET letter, “German Youth Activities,”
dated 18 January, advises:

“German Youth Activities personnel
should enlist the support of the parents of
German children for the German Youth
Activities Program. One plan in use requires
each child who belongs to a club to bring a
letter. signed by his parents stating that they
know the child belongs to the group and
they are familiar with the purposes of the
organization.

--- Page 42 ---
Marshall's Decision Praised
Secretary of State Marshall’s decision to
attend personally the Moscow Conference for
the Germany and Austria treaty discussions
evoked favorable American press comment.

The New York Times said: “In doing so
he has wisely disregarded copious advice
urging him either to send a deputy or to
request further postponement of the meeting
until he could familiarize himself with ‘the
issues in hand. Nothing’ can be more impor-
tant or more urgent than the final determina-
tion of status of these two countries, on
which depends the fate of Europe and the
relations among the Big Four themselves .. .
for the issue at Moscow is the supreme issue
of our day, and in comparison with Moscow
all previous ‘peace negotiations assume the
character of merely preliminary work.”

The Times voiced confidence that Secretary
Marshall, like his predecessor, will support
the smaller nations in their plea for a part
in the major peace settlements.

The New York Herald Tribune said: “The
Moscow meeting is concerned with the fun-
damental task of American statesmanship ...
It is in Germany that American policy im-
pinges most directly upon the policy of the
Soviet-Union. It is there that the real begin-
ning must be made toward reducing relations
between. Russia and. the , United. States to
some sort, of. order and stability ...

. “Secretary Marshall can render. the. best
and most useful service inhis:new post
perhaps in. his whole. distinguished career—
by. success.in Moscow.. It-swill_not be easy,
but it is indispensable.” :

~ The Washington. Times Herald said: “We
thing ‘that:this decision was-the only wise
one possible in this case and «that it is’ quite
essential for Seeretary Marshall to be at the
Moscow get=togethér from start to finish'=:..
All of -us have: aright’ +to.! expect; too,’ that
Marshall will negotiate with’ the interests of

all times.”

Anblo -French Agreement

Many US newspapers and radio analysts
have commented on Anglo-Frenth agreement
to conclude a treaty of alliance with the
object of preventing any further aggression
by Germany and of preserving peace and
security. In general, opinion was that such
an alliance should aid in the stabilization of
Europe at the same time that it would help
to prevent new German aggression. Closer
harmony between the two countries was
noted. The point was also made that the
alliance conforms with regional arrangements
provided for in United Nations Charter.

The New York Times said in part that the
agreement, “long projected but hitherto de-
layed because of differences over Germany,
has found such a favorable echo in France
that even Communists have been forced to
give it a left handed welcome. That would
seem to assure that this agreement will con-
tinue to be a basis of French policy. For
there is everything to be said for it and
nothing against it. It takes France out of
uncomfortable isolation into which the pol-
icies of former President de Gaulle and Pre-
mier-President Bidault had maneuvered her
and gives her an improved position in the
world, which she urgently needs if only to
keep her empire together.”

Los Angeles Times: “The treaty.in no way
will: represent .a. departure from the UN
Charter.. The latier very clearly states that
‘regional arrangements’ are not precluded —
or treaties directed against renewal of ag-
gressive policy on part of any former enemy
state .....

‘When the treaty is finally written Ger-
many will be virtually encircled by states
which have endeavored to guarantee their
safety through military alliances with one
or more major European powers.

--- Page 43 ---
COMMUNICATIONS (Continued from Page 9)

total some 50 million marks; more than 46
million marks are collected in revenues from
Reichspost services each month and aproxi-
mately 30 million marks are expended.

Because of the nature of the Reichspost’s
work, supervision at the highest level is
necessary to provide uniform policies, and
procedures. In most European countries tele-
graph, telephone, radio, postal facilities, and
related services are organized as a depart-
ment within the structure of the national
government. The Potsdam Agreement pro-
vides for the establishment of central
agencies to administer Germany as a single
‘economic unit. The ultimate objective of the
Communications Branch, is the establishment
of a Central German Department of Com-
munications and Posts, probably to ‘be
located in Berlin, to administer communica-
tions services on a uniform basis in all of
Germany.

SENIOR DIRECTORATE ESTABLISHED

In the absence of a central agency and in
line with US policy of returning all civil
communications to the Germans, ‘a zonal
organization, the Senior Directorate of Com-
munications and Posts, was established under
the Laenderrat im April 1946. By June it
had assumed responsibility for the operation
and administration of all civil postal and
telecommunications services in the US Zone.

The Senior Directorate, now located in
Frankfurt, is under the direction of a Chief
President, appointed by the Laenderrat with
MG approval. He is assisted by the heads of
the five operating divisions: postal, telecom-
munications, personnel, finance and utilities,
and transportation: Although severely hand-
icapped by a shortage of competent persén-
nel, the Senior Directorate has demonstrated
its ability to handle the job at hand.

Certain Reichspost facilities however, are
required for the exclusive use of the occupa-
tion forces. These facilities, consisting of
telephone and teletype switchboards, cables,
repeater stations, and associated equipment
serving establishments of the Military Forces

40

and Military Government, remain under the
control of the Theater Chief Signal Officer,
European Theater of Operations. Examples
of these facilities are the switchboards serv-
ing the headquarters of USFET in Frank-
furt, OMGUS in Berlin, and cable FK-41
which connects OMGUS with Frankfurt and
the US Zone.

BRANCH FUNCTIONS LISTED

In addition, matters which relate to Ger-
many as a whole or require quadripartite
action are beyond the authority of German
civilian agencies and are the responsibility
of the Communications Branch. The Branch
must act as advisor to the Deputy Military
Governor, perform liaison work with the
Allies for interzonal services, and negotiate
with foreign countries for the restoration of
international communications for Germany.

Certain other responsibilities are a func-
tion of occupation and will not be returned
to civil control under existing policies.
Among the more important of these are:
Ratification of international agreements;
determination of the level of communications
and postal services necessary to meet the
needs of the occupation forces and to
maintain the approved German economy;
establishment of adequate communications
for the occupation forces for liaison between
civil agencies and US occupation installa-
tions; field inspections to make sure that the
activities of civil agencies follow approved
policy; and advancement of research and
development in the art of communications.

Other duties, however, may be extended to
German authorities when a central German
communications agency is formed. They
include: Problems concerning international
services, negotiations and changes to inter-
zonal services, establishment of new rates
for various services rendered, and changes
in the design of postage stamps.

Although quadripartite agreement has not,
yet been reached, an understanding between
the British and US Governments has resulted
in the Bizenal. Executive Committee for

--- Page 44 ---
Communications, with a siaff of civil rep-
“resentatives from the two zones. This com-
mittee is responsible for the overall operation
of German civil communications in the com-
bined British and US Zones. A Main Ad-
ministration fer Communications and. Posts,
staffed by professional experts from. both
zones, is being formed under this agency for
the administration of the 15 Reichspost
Districts involved. The Main Administration
will replace the Senior Directorates now
operating the Reichspost in the British and
US Zones. This action will relieve many
problems now retarding normal resumption
of communications in western Germany
through the pooling of manufacturing plants,
raw materials, and fuel supplies. Uniform
Reichspost services within. the combined
zones, which became effective on 10 Novem-
ber 1946, will increase the efficiency of
operations through the. use of common
regulations, practices, and procedures in the
bizonal. area.

Bizonal communications agencies will be
under combined US and British supervision
through the Bipartite Board, composed of
the Deputy Military Governors; the Bipartite
Communications Panel, whose members
are the Chiefs of the Communications
Branches; and the Bipartite Communications
Control Group, comprised of MG officials
whose duties mainly are liaison work
between German agencies and MG.

The most important objective of OMGUS
in the communications field is the establish-
ment of a central German department to ad-
minister communications and postal services
throughout Germany. In the absence of
quadripartite agreement for the formation. of
this agency, the Communications Branch,
through its representatives on the Allied
Communications and Posts Committee, its
sub-committees, and its working parties, will
endeavour to extend and introduce ad-
ditional, interzonal and international com-
munications services. The degree to which
centralized control of the Reichspost is
necessary to achieve the objectives of Mil-
itary Government is. yet to be determined.

(Above) An employee checks ‘a communication line in the
exchange in Berlin-Dahlem. (Below) Women employees

sorting mail at Postamt No.1, Frankfurt.

Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 45 ---
PUBLIC WELFARE (Continued from page 13)

and voluntary, in all of its aspects and at all
levels, review German welfare legislation,
decrees, procedural instructions, reports and
statistics; advise German authorities on
democratic policy and procedure in welfare
legislation, administration, and personnel
training; recommend the disapproval of
welfare activities clearly in violation of MG
objectives; maintain liaison with appropriate
USFET Division and with Public Welfare
officers in the other occupied zones of Ger-
many on matiers related to public welfare;
and supervise relief activities of foreign
welfare agencies which provide relief sup-
plies or services for German welfare agencies.

An important phase of Public Welfare’s
activity in Military Government has been the
negotiation of agreements with foreign wel-
fare agencies on relief matters. Early in
1946, an agreement was made by OMGUS
with several organizations in the United
States for all bulk relief supplies to be sent
through a single US agency known as
“CRALOG”’ (Council of Relief Agencies
Licensed to Operate in Germany). Since
that time a total of 14,000 tons of food,
clothing, shoes, and medical supplies have
been imported into the US Zone for distribu-
tion by German welfare agencies to the
neediest cases. In a similar manner, the
International Red Cross has served as the
forwarding agency for the importation of
more than 3,000 tons of food. These import-
ed supplies have made possible child feeding
projects which provide a 400-calorie meal
daily for almost 250,000 children in the US
Zone.

In addition to these programs for the
importation of bulk relief supplies, a plan
is in operation for food packages of US
Army “10-in-1 rations” to be sent to named
individuals at a cost of 10 dollars each
through “CARE, Inc.” a US non-profit
organization. By this plan, more than
100,000 packages have been distributed to
named persons through facilities of German
welfare agencies. An agreement of similar
nature has recently been made with a Swiss

R

welfare. organization, the “Centre d’En-
tr’aide,”. whereby. standard food packages
from Switzerland will be sent to individual
receivers. By last 1 January, 190,000 such
packages were due to'arrive in the zone.

The presence of numerous. refugees and
expellees in the US Zone has created serious
welfare .problems. ‘All’ of them. required
initial reeeption,. care, and resettlement.
Some 40 percent required relief or welfare
service of some kind, While the responsibility
for their “humane” resettlement lies with the
German ‘authorities, MG Public Welfare Of-
ficers have found it necessary to give the
operation close supervision to . prevent
avoidable suffering and discrimination.

The newly-constituted- German state gov-
ernments will find many welfare problems
pressing: for attention. They. must provide
for their needy population or trouble will
result; they must provide without . dis-
crimination or find that they have lost the
essence of democracy. Military Government
observes and advises but the Germans must
find. the answers.

Education’ Conditions Studied

A study-of the social sciences being taught
in the German schools of the US Zone is
being made by a group of seven experts from
the United States for the purpose of making
recommendations to German education offi-
cials.

Following a ten-day indoctrination period
with the assistance of the Education and
Religious Affairs Branch, IA&C Division,
OMGUS, members of the group were assign-
ed to the various Land offices where they
are to confer with the German officials. Their
reports on conditions and teaching methods
are to be made on their return to Berlin.

Approximately 40 experts on various sub-
jects in the general field of Education and’ -
Religious Affairs are to come to Germany on
similar missions before 1 July. Other groups
will follow later to implement and help carry
out the recommendations.

--- Page 46 ---
Report on Slow Conversion
To Democracy is Criticized

The assertion by’ the International Com-
mittee for the Study of European Questions
that the great majority of the German people
are not accepting conversion to democracy
drew critical comment from the German
licensed press in the US Zone, according to
the weekly analysis by the Office of the
Director of Information Control, OMGUS.

Characterizing the committee’s conclusion
as an unjustified and premature generaliza-
tion, Der Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim)
said: “It would be astonishing if such a short
period of time — as one and a half years are
in the life of a people — would have brought
about such total conversion as the authors
apparently demand. But the germ of demo-
cratic thinking, which maintained itself
among the growing weeds of dictatorship for
12 years, and which has just been granted
enough room to develop its first sprouts, is
not helped by denying its ability to survive
before it had a chance to display its
strength.”

The Kasseler Zeitung (Kassel) asked: “But
is it wrong to face the future slowly and
with clear judgment instead of surrendering
to a political idea with flying colors as we
did in 1933? The occasional outbreaks of
fanatics do not demonstrate the opinion of
the entire people. Just now, when the Ger-
man peace treaty is about to be drafted, we
would like to appeal to everyone to take care
that the victorious powers do not find any
more cause to arrive at such conclusions, so
that we are not all-out on the same level as
‘some fanatics who exist in every nation.”

Pointing to the difficult stand of those true
democrats who fight tirelessly to change’ the
‘mood of the people and of an “unfortunate
and deluded” youth, the Zeit Echo (Schwae-
bisch-Hall) said, “Hunger and privations are
not exactly suitable promoters for under-

43

stead to dissatisfaction” and — what is stw
more dangerous — to bitter feelings. These
are directed especially against those who
claim to be friends of the people without
being in position to remove the horrible con-
ditions.”

Shortage of American Men

The Frankfurter Neue Presse carried a
report of a gathering to which some WAC’s
under the German Youth Activities Program
had invited a group of German girls to dis-
cuss the German economic situation and Ger-
man-American relationship. The meeting
progressed according to good parliamentary
procedure until one of the guests remarked:
“T ask you girls to tell us your opinion about
German girl friends for your soldiers.”

The newspaper account continued: “After
a moment of absolute silence a completely
unparliamentary pandemonium of individual
discussions started at the tables, and the
questioner never got an answer. Only one
of the WAC’s leaned over the table and call-
ed to her above the tumult: ‘What makes
you think we should be for it? There aren’t
even enough men for us!”

Good Samaritan Examples

Der Neue Tag (Weiden) carried a lengthy
editorial under the American-Language title
“Can We Help You?” describing three cases
where German cars in trouble were passed
by other German cars that did not stop. In
each case help came from Americans. The
paper commented on the effect of 12 years
of Nazism when those who helped the per-
secuted were in danger of having to share
their sufferings:

“Today we can again help — We can
learn much from the three above-described
examples. In each case Americans, members
of a power that was at war with Germany

--- Page 47 ---
and suffered heavy losses, helped Ger-
mans.., With the same matter-of-factness
they would have helped a Jew, a Pole, or a
member of their own nation. In order to get
this attitude we must revive what has been
buried in us, we must again learn to think
largely and generously, to show kindness in
the world. Then we’ll also receive kindness.”

An incident in which an American woman
provided needed assistance to a distressed
German family was printed by Das Zeit
Echo (Schwaebisch Hall) under the heading
“An American Woman Acts Like This.”
It said:

“Mrs. Kassen, an American actress, who is
visiting her husband, an MG civilian in
Marktheidenfeld, found an unemployed fam-
ily living in a garage. Three children and
the pregnant mother lay on blankets on the
floor. Mrs. Kassen quickly found places for
the children with American families and took
the woman herself into her apartment in
Langfurt where she will be cared for until
the baby is born.”

Paper Demand Exceeds Supply

The Frankenpost (Hof) reported that, as
its circulation has been cut from 110,000
to 65,000 because of the current newsprint
shortage and it is no longer able to supply
all its 78,839 regular subscribers with the
paper, it has asked those readers who want
to get the paper in the future to send in a
statement to that account. The report con-
tinued:

“We expected that a part of the sub-
scribers would not respond to the request.
But we were vastly mistaken: No less than
79,317 of the Frankenpost readers demon-
strated. by filling out and sending in the
corresponding declaration that they want
to continue or to start a new subscription
of our paper.”

One. reader wrote that he could get along
very well without the Frankenpost. He was
to receive porcelain piece from the publishers
for his.comment. For the others, the Franken-
post would cut a few pagés a month so that
all the subscribers could get their copies.

44

Proof Against Bureaucracy

An attack on bureaucracy was printed by
the Frankenpost (Hof) which said: “The
press publishes one case of shocking bureau-
eracy after another, but only after having
convinced itself concientiously of the cor-
rectness and importance of the particular
case. That is necessary alone in consideration
of its readers, for no paper can afford to
bore its readers with stories taken from the
private life of some choleric persons with
gall trouble. But who examines the comp-
laints of the people published in the press?
At best the authorities specified there. In
many cases they will not bother too much.”

Bigger Problem than Treaty

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) saw
the significance of the Moscow Conference
as transcending the German problem:

“It has been no secret for long that the
big powers and their allies were in agrec-
ment when fighting against Hitler — but
that they did not succeed up to date in
finding a common denominator for the gre-
ater task of securing peace... . For this
reason there is more at stake in Moscow
than formulating the stipulations provided
for Germany, and not only — or not in the
first place — the settlement of her future
geographical frontiers. Instead, what is at
stake is the problem of a comprehensive
international final settlement of peaceful
relations of the big powers, which constitutes
a decisive factor for the total destiny of
Germany. In Moscow the decision will be
passed on Europe, and on peace or insecur-
ity in the world.”

Party Papers Unsold

The Passauer Neue Presse, discussing the
popular demand for newspapers, said:
“While there is a shortage of copies of the
licensed newspapers, many political party
information sheets could not be disposed of
during the recent political campaign and
masses of them remained unsold.”