--- Page 2 ---
—_
pa |
—
——|
=
—
—|
=
os
—
| cel
Fa
rr
—
—_

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NUMBER 84 / 17 MARCH 1947

--- Page 3 ---
OBER &
LAHNKREIS

FRIEOBERG

QBERTAUNUS|
WIESBADEN, daar

OFFENBACH

GELNHAUSEN

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM

MOSBACH

ae a
~
tr BACKNANG.
LEONBERG
STUTTGAR

BOBLINGEN

BRUCHSAC

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

:
" " 4 .

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.s. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Ratio of German Civilians per Sleeping Room .

Funds of Clubs and Organizations Composed of Per-
sonnel not Subject to Military Law .

Exercise of the Right ot Self Defense by German Police
Application of the Salary Differential

Four Hour Course of Instruction for Dependents .
Audit of Stock Accounts for Sale of Surplus Government
Property

Switzerland Tour .

Computation of Pay for Allied and Neutral Civilian
Employees .

Counterfeit Military Payment Cottiticates .
Civilian Emblem and Certiticate Awards .
Military Community Basic Supply System .
OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .
Publications and Blank Forms .

Purchase of Surplus Property by US Military Personnel,
etc.

Repeal of Legislation on Hereditary Farms (Control
Council Law No. 45) .

Fingerprinting of Civilian Employees .

AG 624 GDS-AGO
8 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 123 GAP-AGO
12 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 014.12 GAC-AGO
13 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 248 GAP-AGO
13 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 353 INE-AGO

17 Feb 1947, USFET
Circular No. 12

17 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 200.4 SSP-AGO
18 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 230 GAP-AGO
19 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 123.7 GAP-AGO
20 Feb 1947, USFET
Circular No. 24

21 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 680.3 GDS-AGO
21 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 014.1 (SG)

27 Feb 1947, OMGUS
Circular No. 15

28 Feb 19477 USFET
SOP No. 85

1 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 010.6 (ED)

1 Mar 1947, OMGUS
AG 230 (PO)

3 Mar 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Photo by Byers

LEIPZIG“FAIR — The picture on this week's
cover shows a group of visifors at the 1947
Leipzig Fair stopping to look at an art exhibit
in one of the handicraft buildings. The fair
attracted more than 300,000 people in the
first four days, and more than 1,500 buyers
placed orders for future delivery.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

The story on the Leipzig Fair was wriften by
Marjorie “Ashworth Yahraes, of the Weekly
Information Bulletin staff, following a three-day
coverage of the famous 300-year-old event.
From 1943 to 1945 Mrs. Yahraes wrote for
En Guardia, a US Government magazine published
in Washington, D. C., and distributed throughout
Latin America during the war. Before joining
the WIB staff, she was correspondent for News-
week magazine in Mexico.

Thomas E. Nelson, Reports Officer of the Com-
munications Branch, |A&C Division, OMGUS,
wrote “Bizonal Agency for Communications”
——@ summary of the communications situation
and organization in the bizonal area and an
explanation of the recently created Main Admin-
istration for Communications and Posts.

“Abolition of the State of Prussia” depicts
the growth and development of the Prussian
stafe with ifs inherent militaristic tendencies,
tracing it through fo its official abolishment
by ACA Law 46.

The information on the late Colonel William

W. Dawson was furnished by the Public Relations

_ Olficer of the Regional Government Coordinating
Office in’ Stuttgart,

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
Leipzig Fair
Abolition of the State of Prussia
Bizonal Agency for Communications
Achievements of MG Appraised
Colone! William W. Dawson

GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO

10
12
15

17
21
23

--- Page 7 ---
LEIPZIG FAIR

by Marjorie A. Yahraes
WIB Staff Writer

Mz: thaw — with gray skies and pools
of brown mud in the gutters — did little
to deter thousands of people milling through
the streets of Leipzig, eager to see the ex-
hibitions displayed at the city’s famous
spring fair.

The Leipzig fair, renowned for three
centuries, has special importance these first
post-war years. Businessmen, economists,
and government officials know that the
quality of the products and the number ex-
hibited is a useful forecast of the peacetime
revival of German industry.

US visitors, recalling country fairs back
home, may have expected some of the rowdy
atmosphere of the midway with cheap sou-
venirs and fine handicraft for sale. As a
matter of fact, the local Leipzig stores did
display their best items to catch the visitors
eye, and makeshift stands selling cheap toys
and souvenirs sprang up at every bombed-
out corner. But actually, the Leipzig fair
itself is a businessman’s and industrialist’s
event; exhibits are of sample products, not
for sale.

Except for official pass holders, only
“business visitors” were accommodated. For
these guests, hotels were reserved, special
food ration cards were issued, and guides
familiar with several languages were on
hand to give detailed directions. So that
the exhibition halls would not be completely
jammed with people, local businessmen of
Leipzig were allowed to visit their own com-
munity’s fair only at certain hours on
specified days.

Even so, the fair was almost as crowded
as in 1938, when 300,000 people from Ger-
many and other countries visited the exposi-
tion. This year, pass cards were issued to

--- Page 8 ---
200,075 persons entitling them to see the
fair. Additional one-day visitors pushed the
figure up to nearly 300,000. Visitors to the
fair came from many lands. By the first
day of the fair — exhibition halls were open
from 4 until 9 March — nine special trains
bringing some 8,510 persons had arrived
from the British Zone; 7,100 persons had
come from the US Zone; 520 from the French
Zone; and 22,200 from the Soviet Zone.
Others came without official transportation.
On 4 March, 350 persons had arrived in
Leipzig from Denmark, 67 from Norway.
100 from Switzerland, 200 from the Nether-
lands, 10 from Czechoslovakia, and one each
from India, Egypt, and Yugoslavia. By the
end of the exposition, the number of visitors
from outside Germany had reached over
1,500.

Exhibitors, too, came from far beyond
Saxony, the Land in which Leipzig is located.
The fair accommodated approximately 4,900

exhibitors from all over Germany, nearly
double last year’s number. The increase in
the number of exhibitors from the western
zones was especially noticeable: Last year
there were 250; this year there were 1,200
exhibitors from the French, British, and US
Zones.

Products were of a range and variety that
surprised many visitors to bomb-scarred
Leipzig. They included porcelain dinnerware
in vivid floral and Oriental patterns; building
toys designed to “educate” the progressive
child; delicate paper silhouettes made famous
in peacetime years; stylish handbags for
women; multi-colored thermometers; and
many examples of technical apparatus.

Displays were planned and arranged by

(Left) A wool combining and dying machine is shown
in operation at the Leipzig Spring Fair; this was one of
4,900 exhibitions of German industry. (Below) A display
of dolls, animals, and miniature fairy tale characters in
the handicraft building of the Leipzig Fair; these articles
were made by a handicraft worker in Brandenburg.

Photos by Byers

--- Page 9 ---
The theme of the fair, displayed on the top of the fair’s main
building announces “The Year of Democratic Rebuilding.”

individual] exhibitors as examples of what
their particular manufacturing plant could
produce. They were set up in 15 halls, seven
of which were filled with technical products.

Businessmen examined sample textiles or
books, deciding which would be good prod-
ucts to sell at retail. The procedure for
ordering products was made easy by the fair
organization. Suppose, for example, that a
buyer from a large Copenhagen store decided
that his firm could use 500 sets of a special
type of chinaware. From the Leipzig fair
offices he could obtain an interpreter through
whom he would discuss with the exhibitor
the terms of payment and the length of time
required to fill the order. Many such deals
were concluded in the overcrowded restau-
rants reserved for out-of-town guests. When
the exhibitor and buyer reached agreement,
they could summon a secretary — also from
the Leipzig fair offices — to draw up the

Photo by Byers

contract. Approximately 1,500 such orders
— a number five times as large as a year
ago — were placed during the fair by bus-
inessmen from countries other than Ger-
many. Most of the buyers were from Den-
mark, the Netherlands, and Switzerland.
Filling such orders, of course, is the big-
gest headache. Often the beautiful sample
of cloth or fine lithographic reproduction
was the only one of its kind available. Some
companies can agree to fill small-quantity
orders within one to two months. But many
companies, hampered by shortages of raw
materials, ask the buyer to furnish part or
all of the raw material needed for the finish-
ed product. This requirement is true of
many of the companies in Saxony. Before
the war, the region imported raw materials
and turned out such finished articles as
stockings, shoes, textiles, and farm »equip-
ment. . Ready-made products were a key-

--- Page 10 ---
stone of the Saxon economy. By means of
contacts made at the Leipzig fair, many
small manufacturers in Saxony and other
regions are hoping to renew the importing of
raw materials and the exporting of finished
products.

Last year, the textile exhibit topped all
other displays in quality. Leipzig fair of-
ficials agreed that the same was true in
1947. From all parts of Germany and from
all phases of the textile and clothing econ-
omy, 800 exhibitors displayed their products
in the Leipzig “Ring-Messehaus.”” New pat-
terns and kinds of woollen, silk, and synthe-
tic goods were shown, both in harmonious
displays of yard goods and in ready-made
clothing. A special fashion show, held sev-
eral days during the fair week, presented
original style ideas developed by German
dress designers. The Berliner Quality Show
demonstrated the kind of women’s ready-
to-wear clothes 42 Berlin firms are equipped

A display of Weimar Chinaware at the fair; this is the booth of the
C. & E. Carstens china factory, makers of “Weimar Porzellan" since 1790.

to produce. More plants were engaged in
making women’s clothing and accessories
than in any other phase of the textile in-
dustry. A large number of exhibitors also
were producing household furnishings such
as curtains, upholstery material, laces, and
tapestry goods — products highly useful
in the reconstruction of German homes.

TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT

Considerably more important to the swift
reconstruction of peacetime Germany were
the products exhibited in the technical div-
ision of the fair. The pace at which compa-
nies producing tools, small machines, and
machine parts are reviving is a good indica-
tion of the rapidity of Germany’s economic
recovery.

Leipzig’s technical exhibitions traditionally
are shown outside the old “central city,”
some 15 to 20 minutes by streetcar, taxi, or
bus from the center of town. To accommodate

(Continued on page 28)

Photo by Byers

--- Page 11 ---
OF

Pos the core of German nationalistic
and militaristic aspirations and the driv-
ing power to force the supremacy of these
aspirations on the world, was wiped off the
map of Germany by edict of the Allied Con-
trol Authority.

By its Law No. 46 of 25 February 1947
the Allied Control Council decreed: “The
Prussian State together with its central gov-
ernment and all its agencies is abolished.”

THE

The law also provided that Prussian ter-
ritories under the supreme authority of the
Control Council become Laender or parts of
existing Laender, and that all assets and lia-
bilities of the former Prussian State be trans-
ferred to these Laender.

The Prussian State had in fact already
ceased to exist. Its former territories were
included in parts of the four occupied zones
and under the authority of the respective oc-

The Crown Prince of Hohenzollern talks with Nazi leaders
at a party rally held at the time the Hitler regime

had reached the crest of its influence in Germany. Photo Courtesy Berlin Document Center

--- Page 12 ---
The proclamation of the German Empire in Versailles’ famed “Hall
of Mirrors” in 1871; William, King of Prussia, is proclaimed by Bis-
marck to be the new emperor at the close of the Franco-Prussian War.

cupying forces. In the US Zone the major
part of the former Prussian province of
Hesse-Nassau had been combined with the
non-Prussian Hesse-Darmstadt to form Great-
er Hesse, now officially known as Hesse.
In the French Zone the Saar was created an
autonomous province and other Prussian
territories were incorporated into Land
Rheinpfalz. In the British Zone, Land North
Rhine-Westphalia was created.

EASTERN FRONTIERS

Outside of the area of Germany under
supreme authority of the Allied Control
Council, East Prussia was divided between
the USSR and Poland. Parts of Pomerania,
Posen, Brandenburg, and Silesia lying to the
east of Oder-Neisse line came under Polish
jurisdiction after the war, but under terms
of the Potsdam Agreement the eastern fron-
tier of Germany is not to be finally decided

until the completion of the German peace
treaty. After World War I, West Prussia
and Posen had been reduced by the Versail-
les Treaty for the benefit of Poland.

When the Nazis came into power in 1933,
Prussia covered an irregular and scattered
portion of Germany totaling 114,120 square
miles. It was composed of the provinces of
Brandenburg, East Prussia, Hanover, Hesse-
Nassau, Hohenzollern, Pomerania, Rhine-
land, Saxony, Schleswig-Holstein, Silesia,
Westphalia, the City of Berlin, and the Bor-
der Province (Grenzmark) including those
parts of Posen and West Prussia remaining
to Germany.

Prussianism originated in the efforts of
the Junkers — the nobility east of the Elbe
— to hold onto their feudal powers at the
time when the manorial system was decaying
and dying out in Western Europe. The Jun-

(Continued on page 26)

--- Page 13 ---
BIZONAL AGENCY
FOR

COMMUNICATIONS

Aa step in the economic merger of the
US and British Zones of Germany was
taken when the operating control of civil com-
munications facilities was turned over to a
German bizonal agency. At a ceremony held
in Hoechst on 6 March, the two zonal com-
munications agencies were formally dissol-
ved, and the Main Administration for Com-
munications and Posts — under the direction
of the Bizonal Executive Committee for Com-
munications — assumed administrative con-
trol over the 15 Directorates of Communica-
tions and Posts in the bizonal area.

Under the Potsdam Agreement, the occu-
pying powers were commitied in the com-
munications field to establish a Central Ger-
man Department of Communications and
Posts to render civil postal and telecommuni-
cations service throughout Germany. How-
ever, in the absence of quadripartite agree-
ment for the formation of this agency, US
Military Government in January 1946 direct-
ed the Laenderrat to establish a zonal com-
munications agency to assume operating re-
sponsibility over the civil communications
facilities of the former German Reichspost in
the US Zone. The result of this directive was
the establishment by the Laenderrat of the
Senior Directorate of Communications and
Posts located at Munich.

By 1 June 1946, the Senior Directorate
had assumed operating responsibility for all
civil postal and telecommunications services
and facilities in the US Zone with the ex-

16

ception of certain Reichspost telecommunica-
tions facilities required for rendering serv-
ice to the Occupational Forces. These ex-
cepted facilities, consisting of telephone and
telegraph switchboards, certain cables and
repeater stations, and associated equipment,
serve establishments of the Occupational
Forces and remain under control of the
Theater Chief Signal Officer, European
Theater of Operations.

When the policy of economic unity for the
US and British Zones was announced in
August 1946, a German Advisory Board for
Communications and Posts, consisting of rep-
resentatives appointed by the Laenderrat in
the US Zone and by British Military Govern-
ment in the British Zone, was formed and
met first in Stuttgart in September to pro-
mulgate the necessary plans and procedures
to establish a bizonal communications agency.
It was subsequently agreed that an Executive
Committee for Communications would be for-
med, consisting of one representative each of
the Minister Presidents of the six Laender of
the US and British Zones, the Senate Presi-
dent of Land Bremen, and the first Burger-
meister of Hansestadt Hamburg. In addition
to these eight members, it was agreed that
the Executive Committee would elect a Chair-
man and a Deputy Chairman.

After several meetings, the Executive Com-
mittee was formed and began its functions.
One of its first tasks was to plan and organ-
ize the Main Administration for Communi-

--- Page 14 ---
-
The chairman of the Bizonal Executive Committee for Communications, Herr Christian
Blank, delivering the main address at ceremonies in Hoechst, at which time a bizonal
agency assumed control of communications and posts in the US and British Zones.

Signal Corps Photo

cations and Posts, the agency now respons-
ible for administrative control over the 15
Directorates of Communications and Posts
in the two zones and for recruiting the nec-
essary staff personnel. Thus, these two or-

ganizations comprise the bizonal communi-
cations agency which is under combined US
and British Military Government control.
This control is the responsibility of the Com-
munications Branch, [A&C Division, OMG-
US, and the Post and Telecommunications
Branch, IA&C Division, British Military
Government. Channels of control of this
agency and the establishment of policy and
authorizations for interzonal and internation-
al services stem from the Bipartite Board,
composed of the Deputy Military Governors
of the US and British Zones, through the
Bipartite Communications Panel, which
consists of the Chiefs of the Communications
Branch, OMGUS, and the Post and Tele-
communications Branch, British Military

il

Government. The Bipartite Communications
Control Group is the liaison group between
the bizonal communications agency and MG.

The Bizonal Executive Committee for
Communications is therefore the executive
agency actually responsible for the overall
operation of all civil telecommunications and
postal services and facilities in the combined
US-British Zones. However, prior approval
must be obtained from Military Gov-
ernment on certain major subjects, such as
changes in policy, international services, ne-
gotiations and changes pertaining to inter-
zonal services, changes in rates, etc. The
Executive Committee will be called upon to
examine proposals referred to it by Military
Government and to make recommendations
thereon. It is also responsible for the issuance
of directives providing for the execution of
Allied Control Authority laws and regula-
tions and Bipartite Board directives pertain-
ing to post and telecommunications matters.

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 15 ---
Achievements of MG Appraised

Article by Retiring Military Governor Cites Progress Since Germany's
Defeat; Declares Four-Power Cooperation is Ultimate Desire of US.

Taking “stock of the responsibilities, dif-
ficulties, and accomplishments of US Mil-
itary Government in Germany,” and assess-
ing “the progress that has been made to-
ward the attainment of our objectives,”
Gen. Joseph T. McNarney, retiring US Mil-
itary Governor of Germany, said in an
article in the Army-Navy Journal:

The negative aspects of our occupational
policies — demilitarization, denazification,
decartelization, and decentralization — are
well on the way toward accomplishment.
The second part of the task, now under way,
is the long term job of guidance of the Ger-
man people in their economic, political, and
social rehabilitation according to democratic
principles.

Great strides have been made since May,
1945, when once powerful Germany, now
devastated, disorganized, and demoralized,
became the charge of Military Government
... However, the German people were en-
gaged primarily with the problems of ob-
taining food, fuel, and adequate housing.
They were too apathetic and bewildered
to be much concerned with more than their
own personal security.

FOOD PROBLEM REMAINS

Food, which was the immediate problem
in the early days, has remained of paramount
concern. Even in the past, Germany had
never been able to grow enough food for its
people and with battle-torn fields and de-
stroyed farm machinery is less able than ever
to do so. In order to maintain the pres-
ent ration standard, the United States has
had to supply more than one million met-
ric tons of food to the US occupied areas
of Germany up to the end of 1946. To
pay for these imports, Germany will nec-
essarily have to build up exports of items
which she can, and which we will allow
her to produce. Only by such permissible

12

exports can she obtain dollar credits with
which to pay for her imports.

Ultimately it is expected that the German
nation will achieve a level of economy
which will make her independent of our
support. Definite and measurable progress
has been made in this direction with plans
to export more than 100 million dollars
worth of manufactured goods from the US
Zone in 1947, representing an increase of
more than 400 per cent over the 1946 ex-
port level. These exports will consist pri-
marily of toys, chinaware, light vehicles, mu-
sical instruments, cameras, and other goods
of purely peaceful use, and dollar proceeds
from them will be applied against the cost
of bringing food and other vitally needed
supplies into Germany.

OCCUPATION NEEDS WILL BE MET

In keeping with the Potsdam Declaration,
the control of German economy by Military
Government will continue to the extent nec-
essary “to assure the production and main-
tenance of goods and services required to
meet the needs of ihe occupying forces and
displaced persons in Germany and essential
to maintain in Germany average living
standards not exceeding the average of stand-
ards of living of European countries.”

Maximum possible industrial progress in
the US Zone alone would not mean the re-
vival of the German economy to the level
envisaged by the signatories of the Pots-
dam Declaration to be the lowest on which
Germany could survive peaceably. That
level will be achieved only when Germany
is treated as a single economic unit. An
important effort toward making Germany
self-supporting was made in July, 1946,
when the United States invited the other
three occupying powars to join her in the

--- Page 16 ---
economic unification of Germany. Great
Britain responded to this invitation, and
an agreement for economic unity of the UK
and US Zones was signed in New York in
early December by American Secretary of
State Byrnes and British Foreign Secretary
Bevin. Joint Anglo-American financing is
to be made available over a three-year pe-
riod, with the expectation that at the end
of this time the economy of the combined
zones will have been sufficiently rehabilitat-
ed so as to make unnecessary further im-
ports of food and supplies at the expense
of American and British taxpayers. Bizonal
administrations in economics, food and agri-
culture, communications, transportation,
and trade and commerce are being conduct-
ed by German specialists under Anglo-
American supervision.

ULTIMATE DESIRE

Two-Power cooperation is an auspicious
beginning; four-power cooperation is our
ultimate desire. The invitation to France
and the Soviet Union remains open, and
they are cordially welcomed to participate
with Anglo-Americans in abolishing the
economic barriers still cutting Germany
into three parts.

It has been constantly pointed out to the
German people that the basic cause of their
suffering and distress was the war which
German militarism and Nazism brought
upon the world. It is crystal clear that
Germany will have to do her part to re-
pair the devastation wrought by her upon
her neighbors. Germany’s natural recon-
struction has, therefore, been complicated by
the need for reparations.

Progress in delivery of reparations from
the US Zone has not proceeded as was orig-
inally planned, owing to lack of quadri-
partite agreement on measures to effect ec-
onomic unity. The levels of industry agreed
upon by the Allies were based upon the
assumption of economic unity and would
have to be revised if one or more of the
zones is forced to try to become self-sus-
taining without the mutual benefit of free
economic interplay between all parts of

13

Germany. Until it is clear that Germany is
to be treated as an economic whole, all
plants scheduled for reparations cannot be
dismantled or destroyed. Some may have
to be retained to supplement zonal capacity
for self-existence.

The lack of four-power agreement on basic
financial reforms has also impeded the eco-
nomic recovery of Germany. There has
been no common financial policy to control
inflation, to revise the debt structure, and
to place the nation on a sound fiscal foot-
ing.

‘We have taken every action possible to
rehabilitate German finance in the US Zone.
The Germans themselves, under our super-
vision, are undertaking a long needed re-
form of their banking structure. Their
guiding aim is to establish financial control
in such a fashion as to make impossible
the manipulation of public funds for the
creation of a dictatorial militaristic regime.
External assets, carefully hidden through-
out the world, have been sought out and
blocked. The reckless Nazi fiat financing
has been replaced by a conservative and
realistic policy of heavy taxation and care-
fully controlled expenditures. The Nazi
practices of barter and clearing and the
system of blocked marks have been elimin-
ated, and a beginning has been made to-
ward the establishment of an acceptable
system of foreign exchange. We have gone
far beyond economic and fiscal reforms in
Germany.

CIVIL SERVICE REVISED

We have introduced democratic processes
into the civil service, and have widened its
basis to include all full-time government em-
ployees. We have encouraged the free and
extensive growth of trade and labor unions.
We have restored to the Germans the basic
freedoms which have long been lost to them
— freedom of thought and the freedoms of
discussion and expression. Military Gov-
ernment first purged the German press and
radio of Nazi and anti-democratic forces and
influence, and a rigid system of licensing
was established. By the end of 1946, forty-

--- Page 17 ---
four newspapers, with a combined circula-
tion of over four million, were licensed for
printing in the US area of occupation. This
number does not include “Die Neue Zei-
tung” with a circulation of over a million,
which is the only overt American newspaper
published in Germany. The German Press
is not subject to prepublication censorship
and is free to publish any material “ex-
cept Nazi and militarist propaganda and
material constituting a malicious attack on
Military Government or aiming to disrupt
unity among the occupying powers.” The
German radio stations have been reestablish-
ed on a similar basis, with balanced educa-
tional and recreational programs.

GERMAN SCHOOL SYSTEM

The German school system has been par-
tially reestablished; by the end of 1946 near-
ly all children of compulsory school age
were again enrolled, despite lamentable over-
crowding of classrooms. Serious difficulties
with regard to classrooms, fuel, trained and
acceptable teachers, and suitable textbooks
still remain as some of our most difficult
problems. Shortages in paper supply and
inadequate printing facilities tend to ag-
gravate the condition. Supplementing the
formal education of German youth, person-
nel of both Military Government and the
US Army of Occupation, and their depend-
ents, are participating in a broad-scale
program of German youth activities.

FREE ELECTIONS HELD

One of the most important milestones in
the rehabilitation of Germany was reached
in January, 1946, when the Germans were
given the opportunity for the first time in
many years to participate in free elections.
Since that time every village, city, county,
and state in the US Zone has elected its
own governmental administrators, and Ger-
man representatives of all three states meet
together regularly in a zone-wide body, the
council of states (Laenderrat), to discuss
common problems. This organization con-
stitutes the link between Military Govern-
ment and the German States, and through

14

this body. proposals and recommendations
are submitted to Military Government for
consideration and approval. US policy to
decentralize German Government has been
carried out to the extent that each state
has, for all practical purposes, autonomy
within its own boundaries. During 1946,
Military Government -fulfilled its policy
of turning back to the Germans themselves
responsibilities for self-rule, until now only
minimum supervision and control is. ex-
ercised. Military Government acts primarily
in an advisory capacity. Direct adminis-
tration of the US Zone by Military Govern-
ment can be and of course-will be reestablish-
ed at any time should the Germans stray
from the path of democratic procedures on
which they, have been started. Constabu-
lary units of the US Armed Forces are lo-
cated at strategic points throughout the US
Zone for the purpose of enforcing Military
Government decisions and cooperating with
the German civil police in preventing the
rise and spread of lawless elements.

FOUR MAJOR PARTIES

Four major political parties, representing
degrees of political adherence from Com-
munistic to conservative, are functioning
freely in each state of the US Zone. It is
encouraging, in this respect, to note that
so far little tendency has arisen on the part
of Germans to return to the conglomeration
of minor, or “splinter,” parties through
which Germany’s political strength was
dissipated in the latter years of the Weimar
Republic.

In July, 1946, Military Government ap-
proved a recommendation from the Denazifi-
cation Committee of the German Council
of States to make discretionary the applica-
tion of sanctions against youthful offenders
(those born after 1 January 1919) except
for those classified in either Class I (war
criminals) or Class II (active Nazis) under
the law for liberation from National So-
cialism and Militarism. This General Am-
nesty for the youths who were swayed by
the insidious Nazi doctrine and ideology in
their most impressionable years was based

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 18 ---
Col.

William W. Dawson gained the
respect and highest regard of an enemy
people in guiding and assisting them io
throw off the despotic yoke of totalitarian
rule and to create from the war-ruins of
their economy, cities, and public life a new
government modeled democratic and
peace-loving principles.

The success was largely his for the reshap-

on

ing of the political and economic life of large
parts of two former adjoining rival provinces
into the Land of Wuerttemberg-Baden in the
US Zone without losing sight of the pos-
sibility that these two sections may someday
after peace has settled over Germany reunite
into their historical territorial organizations.

The death of Colonel Dawson on 11
February 1947 at the 387th Station Hospital
in Bad Cannstatt, near Stuttgart, was sincerely
mourned by the peoples of Wuerttemberg-
Baden, as examplified by the tribute paid
by the German press of the Land. Since the
advent of the occupation by the Allied
powers, he had been successively Regional
MG Officer for Baden, Director of Military
Government for Wuerttemberg-Baden, and

COL.WILLIAM W.DAWSON

Director of the Regional Government Co-
ordinating Office.

“We have lost a well-meaning and sincere
friend of our people with Colonel Dawson,
who met us with great understanding, a
chivalrous mind, confidence, and a most
human attitude,” said the Neue Wuerttem-
berg Zeitung (Goeppingen). “Those who had
an opportunity to watch his work from
nearby were deeply impressed by the human
warmth and dignity of this man and by his
knowledge of right and truth, which defined
his entire attitude. He was a pioneer of recon-
ciliation and peace in his responsible post.”

Das Zeit Echo (Schwaebisch-Hall) lament-
ed, “Weare deeply impressed by the sternness
of human fate which took away from us the
man who did so much for the economic life
and political liberation of our state... With
him a man has gone who loved his country
above all, served it faithfully even to the
extent of self-sacrifice, and with all that lent
his strength to a defeated country in order
to help them get out of the mud of defeat
to the reconstruction of anew democratic life.”

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-

--- Page 19 ---
bischofsheim) said, ‘Wuerttemberg-Baden
owes much to Colonel Dawson who was the
first governor of that state... Thanks and
mourning are the feelings of all those who
came into close relationship with him. We
do not doubt that history also will confirm
that a sincere, honest man of good-will has
rendered high service to his own and to our
countries.”

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten commented,
“Colonel Dawson, an American democrat of
the purest distinction from the very begin-
ning, put his wisdom, clarity, and political
experience into the service of our new state
life... If we in Wuerttemberg-Baden look
with satisfaction upon today’s prestige of
democracy we must be conscious of the fact
that we owe this largely to Colonel Dawson.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung said, “If our
country today has made political, economic,
and cultural progress .. . we owe (much) to
the untiring activity of Colonel Dawson, to
his understanding and farsightedness, by
means of which he recognized and actively
promoted the possibilities for the recon-
struction of democracy, particularly in this

state... His memory will, out of gratitude,
remain a living one in all hearts which, in
this country, beat for freedom, justice, and
humanity.”

A veteran of the first World War, Colonel
Dawson had. extensive experience in local
government and in labor relations. He had
been mayor of Brecksville, Ohio, from 1934
to 1936, served in other public offices, and
was a consultant on labor relations and an
arbiter in labor disputes. When he returned
to service in 1942, he was professor of law
at Western Reserve University.

He was born in Wooster, Ohio, 54 years
ago, the son of a Methodist minister. His
education for law was received at Ohio
Wesleyan and Western Reserve. Washington
and Jefferson College awarded him the
honorary LLD degree in 1942. His military
decorations include the Bronze Star and the
French award of Chevalier of the Legion of
Honor.

His widow, Mrs. Marguerite Dawson, was
with him when he died of heart trouble com-
plicated by pneumonia, after an illness of
six weeks.

BIZONAL AGENCY FOR COMMUNICATIONS (Continued from page 11)

The Main Administration for Communica-
tions and Posts is the German civil adminis-
trative agency which, under the direction of
the Bizonal Executive Committee for Com-
munications, exercises administrative control
over the 15 Directorates of Communications
and Posts in the US and British Zones. It
is headed by a Chief President, Christian
Blank, and a Vice President, Willy Stein-
kopf, these men also being Chairman and
Deputy Chairman of the Executive Commit-
tee, respectively. The Main Administration
has five operating divisions, each headed by
a specialist in his field. They are: Division
I, Posts; Division II, Telecommunications;
Division III, Personnel; Division IV, Fin-
ance; and Division V, Construction, Motori-
zation and Procurement. Each of these div-
isions is staffed by professional experts
drawn from the 15 Directorates of Com-
munications and Posts. The Main Adminis-

16

tration from its headquarters at Hoechst
will control facilities consisting of approx-
imately 20,000 post offices; 3,900 telephone
central offices with related facilities, in-
cluding underground cables, overhead wire
and cables, plant equipment, repeater sta-
tions, etc.; and about 200,000 employees.
Considerable progress on the unification of
communications facilities has already been
made prior to the assumption of operating
responsibility by the bizonal communications
agency, as a result of the authorization in
November 1946 of uniform postal and tele-
communications services within the combined
zones by the Bipartite Board. Services auth-
orized at this time include all the services
which were rendered by the former German
Reichspost, with the exception of a few in-
significant services which the communica-
tions agencies did not wish to reinaugurate.

--- Page 20 ---
New Courts Speed Justice

A system of streamlined justice has been
set up in the US Zone to accelerate disposal
of many of the 13,000 cases that come be-
fore the zonal courts every month, through
the establishment of a series of Schnell-
gerichte (“Speed Courts”).

“These quick action courts have jurisdic-
tion over such comparatively minor infrac-
tions of Military Government enactments as
certain types of illegal border crossings,
failure to possess an identity card, or entry
into a prohibited area without a pass.

A screening court or Schnellgericht was
created in Munich in November 1945, to
sift out the minor cases from more serious
ones and to give an accused person a speedy
and immediate hearing. Within 24 hours
after his arrest an accused person in Mu-
nich is brought before the Schnellgericht.

The limit of the court’s jurisdiction is
imprisonment not exceeding 14 days or a
fine not exceeding RM 140. If the case is
@ minor one and can be disposed of sum-
marily, the court will immediately decide it,
punishing the accused within the limits of
the court’s jurisdiction, finding him not
guilty, or dismissing the case.

If the case is more serious it is referred
to an ordinary Summary Court and the ac-
cused appears before that court at a later
date. The Schnellgericht can release the
accused on bail or his own recognizance to
wait the trial before’ a Summary Court.

The Schnellgericht was so efficient in Mu-
nich that another was created in Augsburg
in August 1946. The Schnellgericht in Mu-
nich hears approximately 2,400 cases a
month, while the one in Augsburg hears ap-
proximately 650. Land Wuerttemberg-Ba-
den, following the example.of Bavaria, cre-
ated Schnellgerichie throughout the Land
in November 1946. Limits of jurisdiction
are the same as in Bavaria. There are 29
of these courts in this Land, almost one

17

for each Kreis.

Land Hesse and Land Bremen have not ,
adopted the Schnellgericht system. The US
Sector of Berlin has a pre-court control that
is used for screening cases coming before
the Military Government Courts. The of-
ficer who performs this duty does not fi-
nally dispose of minor cases as is done in
Laender Bavaria and Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Schnellgericht proceedings have also been
adopted in some of the German Courts, par-
ticularly in cities having large populations.
They are modeled after Schnellgerichte set
up in Military Government Courts. Ger-
mans held for violation of the German law
are brought, before the German judge, and
if the offense is minor he may dispose
of it at once. If he considers the case to
be more serious, he then decides to release
the prisoner on bail, on recognizance or hold
him pending trial in an Amtsgericht or Land-
gericht. This procedure has helped reduce
the load in German prisons and the Min-
isters of Justice appear to be satisfied with
this system which they have copied from us.

Exhumation of Bodies

The exhumation and transfer of the bod-
ies of deceased United Nations nationals is
prohibited in the US Zone of Germany, ex-
cept under the following conditions:

The US Army Graves Registration Serv-
ice is the sole agency authorized to exhume,
transfer, or evacuate the bodies of deceased
US military personnel in the US Zone of
Germany. :

The exhumation of bodies of deceased na-
tionals of United Nations (other than US)
requires the specific prior authorization of
OMGUS in each case, and applications for
exhumations are required to be presented to
OMGUS through diplomatic channels from
the particular government whose deceased
national is to be exhumed.

--- Page 21 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

Field Reporting

Instructions designed to insure compliance
with field report requirements are contained
in OMGUS Directive AG 010.6 (CO), entitled
“Field Reports Originating at Land Level,”
dated 6 March 1947, directed to the Direct-
ors of OMG’s for each of the four Laender.

The directive states:

“In order to assure proper control for the
approval of such reports, each Director of
Land Military Government is requested to
instruct all divisions within his office that
a strict compliance with reports control is
desired of them and that a Land Field Re-
ports Officer, designated under MGR 22-6.
is responsible for obtaining Military Gov-
ernment reports control symbols from this
headquarters, as prescribed in MGR Title 22,
Part 3.

“In order to expedite the procedure for
the approval of such reports the Control Of-
fice, OMGUS, will be ready, if necessary, to
consider the proposed reports on the strength
of information submitted by telephone.

“Only in a few exceptional cases dictated
by local conditions is it expected that Land
Military Government report requirements
will vary from one Land to another. It is
the responsibility of field reports officers in
each Land to review such report require-
ments and to obiain approval from the
Control Office, OMGUS.

“The Field Reports Officer will prepare
periodically lists of field reports required of
Liaison and Security Offices, including those
originated at Land level, and will distribute
these lists to Liaison and Security Offices,
with an information copy to the Control
Office, OMGUS.

“Simultaneously with the distribution of

18

the lists of approved report forms as pro-
vided above, every Division at Land OMG
Headquarters, and every Liaison and Secur-
ity Office and all other field detachments
should be reminded of the provision in MGR
22-302 which specifies that unauthorized
directives or requests for reports should not
be complied with and should be returned
through the Land Field Reports Officer and
the Control Office, OMGUS, to the initiating
agency of the Office of Military Government
or other higher headquarters.”

British-German Marriages

British subjects who wish to marry Ger-
man civilians in the US Zone must obtain
permission from the nearest British Con-
sulate, according to a letter by the Legal
Division, OMGUS. British Government re-
quires a six-months waiting period before
any Briton, military or civilian, regardless
of connection with the occupation forces, can
marry a German, but this prohibition does
not apply to British citizens who were res-
idents in Germany prior to the war.

MG Ordinance Amended

Military Government Ordinance No. 11
amends MG Ordinance No. 7 of 18 October
1946 concerning “Organization and Powers
of Certain Military Tribunals.” The text of
MG Ordinance No. 11 in both English and
German are contained in OMGUS letter AG
010.6 (LD) of 17 February 1947.

Revision of Bremen Laws

Instructions for bringing basic legislation
of Land Bremen into conformity with that
of the other US Zone Laender, particularly
in matters processed through the Laenderrat,
zre given in OMGUS letter AG 322,” “Legis-
Jation in Land Bremen,” 20 February 1947.
The letter requests a preliminary list of
items on which such action is expected to be
required and advises consultation with Di-
visions concerned before definite action is
taken.

--- Page 22 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

On 15 February, the eleventh shipment of
general-purpose equipment, consisting of
13 pieces totaling 100 tons, from the Kollis
Metallwerke at Reichenbach-Aalen, Wuert-
temberg-Baden, was made to the Soviet
Union.

A large silver service of high artistic
quality, belonging to the former Austrian
Imperial Family, and 115 items removed
from Poland, including important church
pieces and an illuminated manuscript, are to
be transferred from the repository of the
Hanau Gold and Silver Museum to the Wies-
baden Collecting Point for restitution to
owner countries.

In order to reduce the illegal flow of Ger-
man coins into Austria, where they are still
legal tender, the Bavarian Land Central
Bank was authorized to distribute to Land
Ceniral Bank branches in several German
border towns one-tenth of the 500,000 Allied
Military Marks in one-half mark notes set
aside for the prisoner of war payment pro-
gram,

MARK NOTE TRANSFER

The first transfer made by the Berliner
Stadtkontor (municipal commercial bank) to
the new Land Central Bank in Frankfurt
consisted of a shipment of RM 1,500,000 in
RM 1 and RM 2 notes to ease the continuing
shortage of small denomination currency.

From 15 January through 8 February.
20,717 Military Payment Orders totaling
2,115,000 dollars were accepted for encash-
ment from former US-held prisoners of war
now residing in the US Zone. During the
same period 67,350 Certificates of Credit
were accepted for verification.

The program for recruiting of miners for
the Ruhr got under way with the first
recruiting meeting in Stuttgart, 18-19 Feb-
ruary. Posters have been prepared and
leaflets are available for individual distribu-
tion, explaining Ruhr miners’ advantages in
food rationing and the newly-established
point system which grants workers with reg-

ular attendance and colliers with good at-
tendance records priority in buying specified
quantities of food and consumer goods.

A total of 58,611 cubic meters of lumber,
or about 45 percent of the amount scheduled
under the lumber export program, has thus
far been shipped, frozen waterways being
responsible for the slow progress. However,
since the lumber is ready and barges arrang-
ed for, it is expected that once the thaw sets
in, the backlog should be moved quickly.

CIGARETTE PRODUCTION

Shortages of coal and cigarette paper are
hampering the production of cigarettes in
the US Zone and a cut in the present ration
may be necessary. The current ration for
men during a six-week period is 40 cigarettes
or an equivalent ration in cigars or tobacco.
Women are entitled to 50 percent of this
ration. Coal miners in ihe US Zone receive
a normal supplementary ration of 200 cig-
areties, or the equivalent in tobacco, every
four weeks.

On 13 February, representatives of the
US-British Joint Export-Import Agency
(JEIA), together with other Military Gov-
ernment officials of the British and US
Zones, agreed to permit German suppliers
to sign export contracts effective 6 March.
However, such contracts must first be en-
dorsed by the German Economic Ministry,
then endorsed again by the appropriate
Branch Office of JEIA, which issues the
export license.

SUGAR BEET ACREAGE

In order to stimulate a further expansion
of sugar beet acreage in the 1947 season, the
Allied Control Authority Price Control Com-
mittee has agreed to the establishment of a
basic grower’s price of RM 4.00 per hundred
kilos of sugar beets in all four zones. This
price has been in effect in the Soviet Zone
since March 1946 and in the French Zone
since November, and has proved a stimulus
to production.

--- Page 23 ---
ACHIEVEMENTS OF MG APPRAISED (Continued trom page 13)

upon the knowledge that it was exactly this
younger generation upon whom we and the
Germans would have to depend for leader-
ship in Germany in the future. By pro-
viding them with full opportunity for rehabil-
itation, Military Government was able to
give heart to those forces which were anx-
ious to get on with the job of instituting
democracy in Germany. In this response
of Military Government to the proposals of
the German Council of States the give-and-
take policy of our occupation has again been
demonstrated, a policy which, in this instance
and in many others, has redounded to the
benefit of all concerned and has further pro-
moted the inculcation of democratic pro-
cedures.

On Christmas Eve the amnesty was ex-
tended to other persons charged as follow-
ers whose income showed no evidence of
profit from membership in the Nazi party.
To these nominal adherents to the Nazi party
we have given an opportunity to take an
active, constructive role in rebuilding a peace-
ful Germany. The amnesty did not apply
to members against whom specific evidence
could be found to warrant their trial for
war crimes, crimes against peace, and crimes
against humanity.

It should not be assumed that this amnesty
indicates any softening in our original de-
termination to eradicate Nazi influence from
the German nation. Millions of personal and
Nazi party records have been examined,
and countless numbers of Nazi adherents
have been delivered to justice. The task has
been difficult, and it is not yet completed.
Except for major offenses against the stat-
utes of the Geneva Convention, which fall
within the jurisdiction of the Theather Judge
Advocate, and other major crimes, which
come within the purvey of the Office of
Military Government for Germany (US),
the denazification of the US Zone of Ger-
many in now administered by special Ger-
man courts (Spruchkammern) in each Ger-
man state under the supervision of Military
Government.

20

It may be a long time before Germany
has been rehabilitated into a democratic state
with a central government subject to the
will of the people. We will not tire. We
will work ceaselessly for quadripartite a-
greement on all issues which will contribute
toward the creation of a German nation who
will never again threaten her neighbors and
the peace of the world and who will take
her place among the honorable and peace-
loving nations of the world. The road back
for the German people will be hard, but
it is not the intention of US occupational
policy to make it harder. As Secretary Byrnes
stated in his Stuttgart speech of 5 Sep-
tember 1946: ‘The American people want
peace. They have long since ceased to talk
of a hard or soft peace for Germany. This
has never been the real issue; what we want
is a lasting peace. We will oppose harsh
and vengeful measures which obstruct an
effective peace. We will oppose soft meas-
ures which invite the breaking of the
sacrifice in the winning of the war by stay-
ing in Germany until the job is done.”

Revision of Land Laws

To eliminate injustices growing out of
Nazi-enacted Hereditary Farm Laws, and
the same time safeguard maximum food pro-
duction from the agricultural and forest
larids of Germany, the Allied Control Auth-
ority has approved and signed Law No. 45
which also abolishes all tenures of a special
nature in such lands.

This new enactment repeals the Nazi law
by which agricultural and forest land of a
certain size, or owned by persons of pure
Aryan blood, were put under special protec-
tion. Law No. 45 also repeals other provi-
sions reflecting vicious Nazi ideology.

It re-enacts in principle provisions regard-
ing appropriate management of land, and
limitations on alienation, mortgaging and
leasing of land which require the approval
of competent German authorities.

--- Page 24 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Ruhr !nternationalization

The Fraenkische Presse printed an editor-
ial by Dr. Kurt Schumacher, head of the
SPD. In opposing the French plan of inter-
nationalization and control of the Ruhr, he
declared:

“The Ruhr and Rhine belong io Germany.
A more loose confederation, a structure of
international law, in which all can do what
they want, is not Germany. We want a
federation, that is, a Germany which is a
state, not a concept of international law.”

Schumacher concluded: “Only a just peace
can be permanent. It must be the United
Nations who watch a Germany united in it-
self and who give it the opportunity to rise
again — economically, morally, and politic-
ally. And if intelligent planning and inter-
nationalization is necessary the Germans will
be for it with all their hearts.

“But every sensible man in the whole
world will admit that the idea of inter-
nationalization cannot be realized and pre-
served in the long run by exploiting a
country for the benefit of others. While we
recognize the obligation for reparations we
turn against a merely negative policy which
aims at impeding and exploiting.”

Satellite Peace Treaties

Discussing the completion of the satellite
peace treaties, a Radio Berlin commentator
stated they show that the wish for peace has
triumphed. He admitted that it would not
be correct io state that the regulations are
satisfactory to all parties, but he added it
cannot be denied that the desire for peace
has triumphed and that the desire to over-
come all difficulties was clearly noticeable.

“The conclusion of the peace treaties has
shown that the four allies have no differences
of opinion which cannot be overcome,” he
declared. “The adherence to the principle
of equal rights among the powers, the re-

21

jection of the followé
and the display of go
and small problems gives us hope for a pro-
gressive and just settlement of the German
problems at the Moscow conference.”

Denazification Revisions

The Muenchner Mittag (Munich) comment-
ed on the trade union proposals for provision
of the denazification law:

“The demand for extension of the maxi-
mum punishment to lifelong imprisonment in
a labor camp and a summary procedure for
the ‘followers’ will result, however, in a
revision of the entire denazification law. The
demand for an alteration of the law is
becoming stronger not only in the trade
unions, but among the whole people. The
severe punishment of the really guilty is
generally approved, but punishment for the
‘followers’ is just as obstinately rejected.”

The writer said that “the decision on this
important domestic question has to be made
by the occupation power,” and hoped that
the same understanding will be shown for
this, as has been for past problems of de-
nazification.

US Cultural Products

The Schwaebische Donau Zeitung (Ulm)
published “A Letter to America” that praised
the literary products the United States has
sent to Germany, but questioned if the jazz
“that pours on us out of the radio” and a
large part of the American films can really
be among the best that the United States has
to offer.

The paper’s letter also said: “In order to
find out what a living democracy is like our
youth must be able to visit Switzerland, Eng-
land, the States.... Let the pupils of any
German school today write a theme about
America.... All the wise words and good
books are no substitute for personal ex-

--- Page 25 ---
perience .... In the end there must be per-
sonal contact between human beings so that
the idea we have formed of an American does

not largely remain jeep and uniform.”

Underground Movement

The announcement of the discovery of a
Nazi underground organization following a
recent roundup of suspects by American oc-
cupational authorities resulted in the follow-
ing editorial comment in the Zeit Echo
(Schwaebisch-Hall):

“If anything can surprise us in the facts
revealed by the action against the under-
ground movement it is the fantastic aim to
which the leaders of this organization set
themselves. The megalomania of the ‘Third
Reich’ is apparent in the idea of the re-
establishment of a German Reich which
should govern the whole world and in the
legend of miracle weapons,

“It seems hard to believe that there are
Germans who remain untouched by the trag-
edy of the recent past .... The evil driv-
ing spirit that held this underground together
is the same which the world had to fight. As
long as it is alive, the world cannot trust us.”

Praise for US Action

The succession of Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay
to Gen. Joseph T. McNarney as Military
Governor and Theater Commander was the
basis of an editorial in the Heilbronner
Stimme. It said in part: :

“The Americans more than others have
the power to help.... and they also had,
and have, in their way the will to help....
That after all the horror and suffering
brought about by the Nazis, other hundreds
of thousands did not have to die — espe-
cially children ... — we owe to the action of
the Americans. Disregarding all else we shall
never forget it. May General McNarney
take with him his: share. of our German
gratitude to the country to which a large
part of the world today looks with hope and
strong confidence.”

22

Trade Union Influence

Concerning the opinion stated by the
Military Governor at his recent press con-
ference in Berlin that the trade unions seem
to be exerting a more conscientious effort
toward building up a democratic state than
political parties, the Isar Post (Landshut)
said:

“Tt would be possible that certain ap-
pearances of political life in Bavaria in-
fluenced his judgment. Everybody who
followed the recent political debates in the
Bavarian Landtag without prejudice cannot
escape the impression that in Bavaria politics
is carried out at the expense of objectivity.”

Oder-Neisse Frontier

A plea for boundary revision along the
Oder-Neisse frontier of Germany was made
by the Main Post (Wuerzburg) on the asser-
tion that there are two rivers by the name
of Neisse. Pointing out that an SPD com-
mittee headed by Paul Loebe is proposing a
revision in drafting a memorandum on the
eastern frontier, the paper said:

“In this memorandum it is pointed out
that the declaration of Yalta apparently
provided that the southern part of Germany’s
eastern frontier should follow the course of
the Silesian Neisse, while in Potsdam this
term was applied to the ‘Lausitz Neisse’.”

German Voice in Peace

The Stuttgarter Zeitung declared that
German public opinion has become more
firmly convinced that “both reason and in-
stinct speak against German participation in,
and signature of, a peace treaty.”

The Germans today should make them-
selves heard, the paper said, in fields “where
the humanitarian and international ideas
find an echo: the labor movement, the
church, press, science, and private corre-
spondence .... It will be both smarter
and more dignified to leave it to the victors
to negotiate among themselves a statute for
Germany.”

--- Page 26 ---
Press Reviews Basic Problems
As Moscow Conference Opens

Last week’s opening of the Moscow Meet-
ing of the Council of Foreign Ministers
focused the attention of the US press on the
problems to be faced by the statesmen, pros-
pects of solutions to these problems, and
most recent developments preliminary to the
conference.

Several papers underlined the statement
of Secretary of State Marshall when he left
Washington 5 March to the effect that his
highest hope on the German Treaty was
that agreements can be reached in Moscow
on fundamental principles. Many papers
also joined Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee Chairman Vandenberg’s statement
that Marshall carries with him hopes of US
people and their prayers for his success.

The New York Times said Marshall is
“on a mission as difficult and as fraught
with destiny as any ever undertaken by an
American statesman. This mission is to
break the diplomatic deadlock between
Russia and the West and to establish a
peace, with Germany its key, which will
rescue the world from what he himself has
characterized as a critical condition.”

The Times also said in part: “In respect
to the specific problem of a German peace
treaty, Marshall has pledged himself to the
policies proclaimed by Byrnes at Stuttgart,
and to the principle of a fourpower alliance
to keep Germany disarmed. This program,
already endorsed by Great Britain, has re-
ceived added backing by the new Anglo-
French Alliance, which brings France closer
to it as well. It remains to be seen how far
Russia, which has paid lip service to similar
principles, is willing to go to reach agree-
ment. One thing, certainly, should quickly
become apparent. That is whether the Rus-
sian Government is really negotiating in
good faith or whether it is pursuing a

B

weaken the western nation
peace and reconstruction.

“The two-year delay in the ‘beginning’ of
peace has already had grave consequences
for Britain, France and Italy, and a collapse
in Greece, Austria, and Germany can be
averted only by American aid. The United
States has the right to demand greater speed
in the making of peace, or, failing that, to
proceed on an alternative policy of trying
to organize for peace, trade and mutual
assistance all nations willing to join in that
effort. The economic merger of the American
and British Zones in Germany is the first
step in that direction. It can, and if neces-
sary should become a model for a positive
policy gauged to a far broader scale.”

In another editorial, The Times said:
“Marshall’s first task, which parallels that
of Woodrow Wilson, is to lay the founda-
tion for a peace with Germany which this
time will really keep her from starting a
third world war without at the same time
converting her into a moral and economic
plague spot that would poison all Europe
and the world. But his second and perhaps
even more important task is to chart for the
United States an even bolder course upon
a treacherous sea of world politics than
appeared necessary heretofore — a course
which requires throwing the whole weight
of the United States into the scales to right
the balance between a weakening western
Europe and ithe rising power in the East.
Only thus is it possible to maintain the new
equilibrium established by the war, on which
depends the success of the United Nations,
our own safety, and world peace.”

New York Post: The Moscow Conference
cannot by its very nature avoid being deci-
sive. If no agreements are reached it will be
clear that the hope for,economic and :polit-
ical stability in the world is dim. ‘for many
years. If agreements are reached, that hope

--- Page 27 ---
will become brighter, or dimmer, depending
precisely on the nature of the agreements.”

New York Herald Tribune: “In general,
the views of the Big Four on Germany may
not be as far apart as pessimists imagine.
The principle of Germany’s political eco-
nomic unity is recognized by all but France,
which has shown signs of being ready to
compromise. The question of. the structure
of the German State — centralization versus
federalization — is relative, not absolute,
and should be subject to bargaining. Again
there is general agreement, except on the
part of the French, that German productive
capacity should be restored beyond the level
loosely. outlined at Potsdam and detailed in
the level of industry agreement.

Fundamental problems that seem likely to
divide the Americans and Russians are rep-
arations and frontiers. The Americans
insist that reparations must come solely
from capital equipment. The Russians want
current production as well. If our delegation
is going to advocate raising Germany’s pro-
ductive capacity, we find it hard to see how
it can fairly deny part of this increase to
the Russians. As for Germany’s eastern
frontiers, there is no doubt that the présent
arrangement is unsatisfactory. The Rus-
sians are guarding them, and that is a big
talking point. However, the Western Allies
are guarding the Ruhr, in which the Rus-
sians have an undeniable interest, Perhaps
even here there is room for give and take.”

Philadelphia Inquirer: “Back of the dif-
ficult issues regarding Germany that face
the Foreign Ministers at Moscow are as
yet unanswered questions as to what, pre-
cisely, are the objectives of the Soviet Union.
And questions concerning Russia’s policy in
Germany suggest further questions about the
Kremlin’s aims throughout Eastern Europe
and the Balkans. For Germany can’t be disso-
ciated from the problems of all Europe.”

Chicago Daily News: “With Britain’s
diplomatic position weakened by domestic
difficulties and enforced curtailment of her
world-wide activities, the Moscow Conference
resolves itself into an attempt by the United

24

States and Russia to agree on the German
Peace Treaty.”

St. Louis Globe Democrat: “Upon the out-
come of the German peace terms rests the
future of Europe and probably that of Rus-
sian-American relations. A just peace for
the German-Austrian peoples can help re-
habilitate the continent and cement the
foundation for lasting peace between Mos-
cow, London and Washington. Failure in
this most important of the peace negotiations
may jeopardize the whole world’s dream of
security.” .

Palestine Problem

US papers have generally welcomed the
British decision to submit the problem of
Palestine to the United Nations. But they
emphasized that the admitted complexities
of the situation, including basic and long
drawn out differences between Jewish and
Arab positions as well as conflicting interests
of several major powers, provide a severe
test for the new international organization.
The papers also pointed out that any solu-
tion of Palestine still leaves: the urgent
problem of the thousands of displaced per-
sons throughout Europe, a minority of which
are Jews. Several editorials urged that
various nations, including the United States.
permit increased immigration.

St. Louis Star Times said in part: “With
the announced intention of the British Gov-
ernment to submit the “whole question” of
Palestine to the United Nations, there comes,
for the first time in months of bloodshed, the
hope of a real solution for the problems of
that unhappy country. It is not a bright
hope. Enmities have clotted so in Palestine
that they have smothered all real optimism. . .
If there is a solution for Palestine, it will
have to come from the UN. One can hope
that the British have not waited too long be-
fore turning it over.”

Chicago Daily News: “It may as well be
admitted that the Palestine problems seems
to defy a peaceful solution... But until this
country opens its doors to the homeless Jews
in Europe, any criticism of the British or

--- Page 28 ---
Arabs for restricting immigration cannot
escape the appearance of hypocrisy ....

“The British now confess that they have
exhausted all avenues of conciliation. The
UN must find a just solution and it must
persuade the two factions to accept it. It is
a hard test, but one which ought to be wel-
comed. Sooner or later the nations will
contrive more dangerous crises, and the faith
of the world in UN will be in proportion to
the courage and determination it has shown
in such problems as Palestine.”

Bizonal Economic Plan

In an article explaining the US-British
MG plan for Germany to pay her own way
in the near future by means of an extensive
export program, a Washington correspond-
ent of the Christian Science Monitor wrote:
“The hope is being raised here that Germany
soon can begin to ‘pay its way’ through ex-
ports and that the Reich will cease to be an
economic liability to the United States and
Great Britain in about three years.

“With the merger of the American and
British Zones, the War and State Depart-
ments are working to develop German manu-
facture and trade so that exports from the
Anglo-American area by 1949 will wipe out
the food-import and occupation deficit which
amounted to 200,000,000 dollars in fiscal
1947 for the United States alone.

“Plans are under way to permit German
salesmen to enter other countries, including
the United States. Eventually Germany is
intended to become a peaceful workshop of
Europe and the world, not a land of pas-
toral peoples as once envisaged.

“Whether these plans, in which London is
joined, succeed will depend in part on Con-
gress. The War Department is asking
Congress for 330,000,000 dollars for German
occupation costs in the fiscal year 1948 —
130,000,000 dollars more than last year.

“This additional 130,000,000 dollars is to
go largely for food imports, mostly for the
British section of the combined zones. But
Britain also will be ploughing in greater ap-
Propriations in the shape of raw materials

and items for manufacture.

“If Congress should refuse adequate ap-
propriations, or should refuse to allow Ger-
man goods to enter the American market, the
scheme would fail.

“Concern for American reaction undoubt-
edly prompted these press conference held
here (Washington) by Brig. Gen. William H.
Draper, Jr., (then) Director of the Economics
Division of the United States Military Gov-
ernment in Germany, right hand man of Lt.
Gen. Lucius Clay.

“General Draper sees the success of the
drive to end the ‘occupation deficit’ as de-
pending on three factors:

“1. Sufficient food imports to the com-
bined zones. By July 1 of this year it is
hoped to boost the German calory level from
1,550 to 1,800, thus meeting minimum phys-
ical standards and preventing the ‘slow
deterioration’ since the war.

“2. Continued increase of coal production.
The present coal output from the Ruhr is
200,000 tons daily, production having in-
creased between 10 and 12 percent in the
past. three months. Ruhr coal comprises
the vast bulk of Germany’s present exports.

“3. The question whether the world will
buy German goods.

“Present exports from the combined zones
total about 100,000,000 dollars, on an an-
nual basis. Greater future exports will come
largely from the more industrialized British
sector. If the combined export goals are
realized, ‘the 1947 deficit should be cut in
half in 1948, and eliminated in 1949,’ says
General Draper...

“What resistance will be encountered to
German exports is another question. Amer-
ican toy manufacturers who have been con-
tacted show no objection to limited imports
from their German competitiors.

“The policy of our Military Government
in Germany, fully supported by the War
and State Departments, is to return German
foreign trade as quickly as possible to nor-
mal commercial and banking channels,’ Gen-
eral Draper adds. He believes that Britain,
despite its socialist Government, is prepared
to go along on this.”

--- Page 29 ---
ABOLITION OF THE STATE OF PRUSSIA (Continued trom page’ 9)

kers were the ruling class and the peasants
were tied to the soil. When the political
rights of the estates were abolished in the
middle of the seventeenth century, the Jun-
kers gained the higher posts in the civil ad-
ministration and the officer corps. The
peasants were the laborers and soldiers. The
juridical authority and brutal corporal pun-
ishment of the estates became the discipline
of the barracks. The townspeople also be-
came. obedient subjects of the officers and of-
ficials which were sent to rule over them.

Prussia developed from the area which
was situated in the recent province of East
Prussia. It had been wrenched from its ab-
original owners, the heathen Borussia, or
Preussen, by the conquering and missionary
zeal of the Teutonic knights, a militant order
of semi-monkish warriors, who, after their
services were no longer needed in the Holy
Land, had been entrusted with the task of
christianizing the region.

FIRST PRUSSIAN KING

Having become heir to the lands of the
defunct Teutonic knights at the start of the
eighteenth century, the Elector of Branden-
burg, Frederick III, had himself crowned
on 18 January 1701 at Koenigsberg as
“King of Prussia,” and as such became
Frederick I. He was a Hohenzollern, de-
scendant of an insignificant burgrave of Nu-
remberg who in 1411 had been called to the
wasted and utterly desolate Brandenburg as
its margrave. The father of the first “King
of Prussia” was the clever and pushing
“Great Elector,” who through wars and
other means of acquisition gained new ter-
ritory.

For the next century and half the fortunes
of Prussia depended largely on the character,
ambitions, and abilities of its kings. Frede-
rick I through shrewd deals gained impor-
tant Saxon territory and other pieces of
land but left the tiny state overburdened
with taxation. Frederick Wilhelm I, scorning
the cultural aims of his father, exhibited
prudent administration to fill the empty
treasury. His army, not large but well-drill-

20

ed and equipped, became through his econ-
omy policy the model for the rest of Europe.
He likewise added territory, including the
larger part of Swedish Pomerania.

Frederick II, subsequently surnamed the
Great, with ambitions nurtured by bitter ha-
tred of his father, mounted the throne at the
age of 26. Inheriting the well filled treasury
and the well trained army, he seized Silesia
from Austria. But the Seven Years left
Prussia in a pitiful condition. However he
participated in the first partition of Poland
and died leaving the state nearly two-thirds
larger. His nephew, Frederick William II,
gained land through the second and third
partitions of Poland.

Frederick William III suffered from a
weak and vacillating policy. Prussia was
completely defeated by Napoleon at Jena in
1806, but at the Congress of Vienna, she re-
gained all her lost lands besides the larger
part of Saxony, the remainder of Pomerania,
and territories in the Rhine area. Prussia
sank to a low state when Frederick Wil-
liam IV submitted abjectly to the political
yoke of Austria.

LIBERAL ELEMENTS CRUSHED

The accession of William I in 1861 mark-
ed the beginning of the upsurge of the ag-
gressive militarism and nationalism of Prus-
sia. With him appeared the “man of iron
and blood,” Otto von Bismarck, and the
crafty Prussian chief of staff, von Moltke.
Bismarck, craving power for Prussia and
glory for the Hohenzollern dynasty, started
collecting taxes without the consent of par-
liament for the raising of an army. The
Prussian military hierarchy and civil service,
still infused with the feudal ideas of the
Junkers, stood behind him. The liberal ele-
ments were crushed.

Bismarck was able to build a modernized
army for three rapid wars — against Den-
mark in 1864, against Austria and the
southern German states in 1866, and against
France in 1870-71. Hanover, Hesse-Kassel,
Nassau, Schleswig-Holstein. Alsace, and pari

--- Page 30 ---
of Lorraine were gained from these wars, be-
sides a huge indemnity from France. While
the last war was still going on, William |
was given in Versailles the imperial crown
as the first German emperor.

With a skillful policy of “divide and
tule,” Bismarck succeeded in using the polit-
ical parties to further his autocratic policy.
Although Prussia did not have a majority in
the German Reichstag, it had sufficient seats
to veto any action Bismarck opposed. De-
spite his belief that Germans would not be
good colonists, he fostered after 1884, by
whatever means at hand, the acquisition of
territories in Africa, China, and the Pacific
for colonial purposes. His foreign policy
was successful but his opposition to the Cath-
olics and to socialism had only varying
success. Still, as chancellor, he had the full
confidence of Emporer William.

EMPEROR WILLIAM II

Frederick III reigned only three months
in 1888, and then William II, young and im-
petuous, came to the throne. After 20 months
of semi-hostilities between the emperor and
the chancellor, Bismarck resigned in March
1890 and retired from public life. William,
at first, sought reconciliation with the social-
ists and then turned their virulent foe.
However, during his reign, Germany pushed
her foreign trade and entered into strong
competition with the industrial countries. It
was chiefly under him that Germany, pre-
viously able to take care of most of its own
needs, had turned to extensive industriali-
zation.

William II, the Hohenzollern and heredi-
tary King of Prussia, in his strenuous race
for mercantile supremacy, kept telling his
people of the necessity of a constant growth
as an exporting nation. The emperor was a
profuse and varied public orator, some of
his remarks sounding almost maniacal in
their frenzy. At the same time appeared a
small groups of writers who influenced the
national and political thinking of the Ger-
man people with ideas of superiority and ex-
pansion.

World War I caused a set-back in ex-

\

27

pansion of German influence. The emperor.
until the last still King of Prussia, was re-
moved, but Prussia, though reduced slightly
in territory, was still most powerful in Ger-
many. And in Prussia were still the Jun-
kers with their age-long training and am-
bition to be the ruling class. The physical
appearance of the “Second Reich” had been
changed but the spirit and ambitions plant-
ed before the war had not been routed out
and replaced with democratic ideas and co-
operation.

The abolition of the State of Prussia was
one of the steps taken by the occupying
powers to eliminate the seeds and ideas of
revival of aggression in the future. Des
militarization has been one of the foremost
endeavors of the occupying powers. Land
reform, particularly in the areas of the
feudal traditions of the Junkers, has been
carried out by various methods. The par-
ticular goal has been that Prussia and the
ideas it fostered shall never rise again.

Personnel Changes

Theodore H. Ball has been appointed Di-
rector of the Firiance Division, OMGUS, to
succeed John Bennett who has been named
Finance Advisor to the Theater Commander.
Mr. Ball joined the Finance Division in May
1946 as Chief of the Foreign Exchange and
Blocking Control Branch. Since August he
has been Deputy Director of the Division.

George J. Santry has been appointed Dep-
uty Chief of the Trade and Commerce
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, to
assist Robert Trier, Chief, in the direction
and control of foreign and internal trade
and price control in the US Zone. Prior
to his appointment, Mr. Santry was Deputy
for Operations, Executive Officer, and Con-
tract Negotiator, in the branch.

Dr. Robert M. W. Kempner has been ap-
pointed Deputy Chief Counsel and Director
of the Ministries Division of the Office of
Chief Counsel for War Crimes at Nurem-
berg. He had served on the staff of Justice
Robert H. Jackson, American Chief of Coun-
sel, before the International Military Tribunal.

--- Page 31 ---
LEIPZIG FAIR (Continued trom page 7)

visitors during the exposition days, a large
number of private automobiles were com-
mandeered to be used as taxis, and addition-
al streetcars and buses were routed to the
technical show. In 1946, there were only
four exhibition halls for the display of such
products as tools, precision instruments, and
construction materials. This year, three addi-
tional halls were added to the fair grounds.

PARTICIPATION BY US ZONE

More than one-fifth of the whole number
of Leipzig fair exhibitors took part in the
technical display — a total of 1,096 com-
panies. Besides Soviet Zone industries, a
large number of companies from other zones
showed their products. Approximately 670
exhibitors were from the American Zone, 450
from the British Zone, and 100 from the
French Zone. The largest number of technical
exhibiting industries, a total of 237 firms,
took part in electrical and communications
equipment displays. Considerable space also
was given to tool-machines for metal and
wood-working industries; textile machines,
machines for graphics industries, and
machines for food processing; photographic
equipment, optics, and precision instruments;
building and construction materials; semi-
manufactured products; and pharmaceuticals
and cosmetics.

Although many technical products look
ahead to better postwar years, most food
industry machines at the fair were realistic-
ally built to fit present-days needs. Steam
ovens, for example, are constructed accord-
ing to order to fill the exact requirements
of the particular bakery. Recognizing the
manpower shortage, an efficient one-man
machine was displayed which turns out 600
biscuits or cookies per minute.

On a smaller scale than the textile and
technical exhibitions, yet considered nearly
as significant, were the diplays of the fur
and graphics industries. Before the war, the
city of Leipzig was famous for furs. Skins
were sent to Leipzig processing plants from
Canada, Africa, India, and Persia to be

28

treated, dyed, and fashioned into fine articles
of clothing. Today, of course, such fur im-
ports are severely curtailed, but Leipzig
firms continue to produce well-finished prod-
ucts — from rabbit skins. A large number
of Germans keep rabbits today as a source
of food supply, and Leipzig furriers have
found that these common rabbit skins can be
converted into exotic furs.

Exhibits in the graphics hall showed per-
haps more variety than other exhibitions
with products ranging tiom reproductions ot
fine paintings to samples of newspaper front
pages. Formerly a world center of book-
making, Leipzig today is trying a new

formula. Dealers find that for the
first time in Germany, papercovered
and board-bound volumes are becom-

ing popular. Many literary, educational, and
children’s books displayed in this year’s”
graphics exhibitions were of inexpensive
cloth and paper. Book publishers kept close
watch on the orders at the fair. Sales con-
firmed the popular trend. Tomorrow’s
manufacturing pattern will emphasize large
numbers of inexpensive, paper-bound books,
rather than small printings of luxury-type
volumes bound in expensive hand-worked
leather.

SCARCITY OF LEATHER

The scarcity of leather was shown in other
displays at the fair. Speck’s Hof, many
years the center for leather articles, bags,
and suitcases, probably contained more
articles made of leather-substitutes than in
any year before. Artificial leathers, specially-
treated cloth, oil cloth, and other prepared
textiles — all are being used by leather
firms in the absence of the genuine raw
material.

Although German industries must continue
to use substitutes of all kinds, businessmen’
who gathered at the fair hope that standards
of good workmanship can be maintained.
Leipzig officials believe that the competitive
buying and selling at this year’s fair may
do much to lift the quality of Germany’s
post-war products.