--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 81 / 24 FEBRUARY 1947

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
an MARBURG
LAUTERBACH
OBER
LAHNKREIS
; , FRIEDBERG
roe secaubloader
IESBADEN iar

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAUI
DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MERGENTHEIM
MOSBACH

LEONBERG

ROTEN BURG

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

A=
NFaRMATON

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Promotion of Military Personnel
Furnishings for Clubs and Day-rooms

Numbering and Marking of Highways in the US Occupied Zone of

Germany

Paris, Riviera, United Kingdom and Denmark Tours .

Amendment to Directive of 11 January 1947, “Revision of Public Health

Reporting System.” .

Historical Program of the US Forces, European Theater

Theater Publications .

Disposal of Chemical Corps Items.

G.4 Periodic Report

Leaves in European Theater for Military Personnel
Efficiency Reports for Indigenous Employees .

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .

Implementation of Quadripartite Decision Approving “Procedure for
Notification of Plant Diseases and Pests” .

Military Government Law Entitled “Prohibition of Excessive Concen-
tration of German Economic Power”.

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 3
28 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 414 SSP-AGO
30 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 611 GEC-AGO
30 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 210.711 SSP-AGO
30 Jan 1947, USFET

AG 091.4 (IA)
30 Jan 1947, OMGUS

AG 311.7 HIS-AGO
3 Feb 1947, USFET

OTAG Depot Bull. 5

"3 Feb 1947, USFET

Circular No. 6

3 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 319.2 GDS-AGO
4 Feb 1947, USFET

Pers. Bull. H-32, F-15
6 Feb1947, OMGUS

Pers. Bull. H-33, F-16
8 Feb 1947, OMGUS

AG 0141 (SG)
8 Feb 1947, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (ED)
10 Feb 1947, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (ED)
10 Feb 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

US ZONE TRAVELERS — The picture on
this week's cover shows a few of the German
civilians who daily crowd the Frankfurt Bahn-
hof waiting for their train fo arrive. See page 4
for the story of MG's Transport Division.

MG SERIES

The fourth Group in the series on operations
and functions of Military Government in Ger-
many is published in this issue. This is com-
prised of articles dealing with four divisions of
OMGUS — Transport, Civil Administration,
Armed Forces, and Prisoners-of-War and Dis-
placed Persons — and with the Public Safety
Branch of the Internal Affairs and Communi-
cations Division. e

The fifth and final group in this series will
be published in next week's issue of the Weekly
Information Bulletin. This will consist of articles
on the Economics Division and its branches,
including Trade and Commerce, Food and
Agriculture, Industry, Decartelization, and Resti-
tution,

: ‘No Photographs or art work appear in this
issue of the Weekly Information Bulletin due
to the lack of material at the engraving plant
for making the plates. The graphics work will
return to the pages of the WIB as soon as
the necessary metal becomes available.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

MILITARY GOVERNMENT SERIES
Transport
Civil Administration
Public Safety
PW & DP

Armed Forces

GENERAL
Excerpts
General Items

GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

x

10
us)
15

19
20

23
25

--- Page 7 ---
TRANSPORT

| Riess ame vital part of Germany’s
economy thoroughly disorganized by war
yet of primary importance to reconstruction
—is being guided toward recovery by the
Transport Division, OMGUS.
Responsibilities of this organization are
far-reaching. They include developing trans-
portation to meet the requirements of the
occupying forces, interzonal traffic of
Allied Nations, and the accepted minimum
German economy; and facilitating inter-
national transport in the operation of inland
waterways, ports and coastal shipping.
railroads, and road transport. No provision
is made for restoration of German air trans-
port since it has been closed to German use.
Five branches—the Executive, Water, Rail,
Road, and Movements—have been organized
within the Transport Division to handle
specific details of these agency functions.
The Director of the Division, the Deputy
Director, and the Executive Officer coordi-
nate and supervise the work of the other
four branches through the medium of the
Executive Branch. The Director and Dep-
uty Director, in addition to these super-
visory duties, represent the United States on
the Transport Directorate, the four-power
transport policy-making body for Germany.
The Executive Branch has two sections: The
Administrative and the Secretariat and Re-
ports Sections. The Administrative offices
handle the internal affairs of the Division
including personnel, supply of materials and
equipment, and: the receipt, dispatch, and
filing of all official mail. The Secretariat
and Reports Section is responsible for
handling matters of protocol and data on
foreign relations; acting as a liaison with
Allied counterparts; maintaining a system of
files; translating and distributing quadri-
partite papers; and keeping US members of
the quadripartite committees of the Trans-
port Directorate informed on positions of

the four occupying powers. This section
also prepares, compiles, and edits reports
and news releases for the Transport Division.

WATER TRANSPORT OPERATIONS

The Water Transport Branch is respon-
sible for making policies pertaining to this
type of transport and inspecting those Ger-
man organizations charged with operational
responsibility to see that established policy
is followed. The primary functions of the
Branch are: To determine present and poten-
tial water transport capacities and facilities
within the US Zone and within Germany as
a whole; to determine the extent that water
transport will be developed or curtailed to
meet the requirements of the occupying for-
ces and the agreed level of German economy;
to determine what equipment is necessary
to meet these requirements, then making
adequate facilities available; and to partici-
pate in quadripartite government and inter-
national committees developing policies on
interzonal and international water transport
operations and maintenance in Germany.

To carry out its mission, the Water Trans-
port Branch is organized into three principal
sections with subordinate field organizations
established for the three primary areas oi

. water transport: The Rhine, the Danube, and

Bremen. These principal sections are Trans-
port, Engineering, and Inspection and Se-
curity. The Berlin office has two additional
sections; Administration and Reports, and
Policy and Liaison.

The Transport Section of the Water
Branch supervises the Rhine Transport -
Organization, the Danube Transport Organi-
zation, Coastal Shipping Organization, and
technical control of the Port of Bremen. All
functions having a direct bearing upon the
movement of goods are the responsibility of
this Section.

The Engineering Section is concerned with

--- Page 8 ---
the unified control and supervision of engi-
neering and maintenance works carried out
by the German organizations. This work
includes the collection and dissemination of
engineering data on the navigable waterways
and tributaries; the establishment of priority
and coordination of construction works
affecting navigation; and the supervision of
navigation rules and notices, marking and
buoying of channels, clearing of bridges and
channel obstructions, raising of sunken craft,
dredging, bank protection, flood and ice
protection, and restrictions against pollution
of waterways.

TRIPARTITE COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS

Tn order to establish complete coordination
of these activities and to provide for uniform
supervision by the riparian Allied zonal
authorities on the Rhine river, the Tripartite
Engineering Committee has been established.
It is composed of a United States, British,
and French representative of the Allied Con-
trol Authority, and exercises central control
over the German waterway engineering
organizations of the three zones.

The Inspection and Security Section is
responsible for enforcing regulations per-
taining to inspection, navigation, manning,
_ and security of vessels; policing of water-
ways; operation of vessels; vessel registry
and license; and officers’ licenses and
requirements for them.

The Administration and Reports Section
is responsible for carrying out the general
administration and personnel work of the
Branch and for the preparation of all routine
reports.

The Policy and Liaison Section establishes
primary water transport policies on
bipartite, tripartite, and quadripartite levels.
This section also handles liaison matters
with all zonal administrations, governments,
and international organizations having a
bearing on the formation of water transport
policy.

As the first step toward achieving the
Potsdam agreement that Germany would be
treated as an economic whole, a bizonal
Transport Administration, consisting of rep-

resentatives from the US and British Zones,
has been established with headquarters at
Bielefeld. Two of the four administrative
agencies established under the joint Trans-
port Administration will be concerned with
water transpoort. These agencies are Inland
Waterways and Inland Water Transport,
and Maritime Ports and Coastal Shipping.

The system of navigable waterways in the
US Zone includes sections of the following
rivers: The Rhine from Lorch to Karlsruhe,
the Main from the Rhine to Bamberg, the
Neckar from the Rhine to Stuttgart, the
Lahn from Diez to Weizlar, the Danube
from Ulm to Passau, the Ludwigs Canal,
the Weser from the North Sea to the limits
of Bremen, and the upper portions of the
Fulda and Werra rivers. Waterways, espe-
cially those as highly developed as the ones
existing in Germany prior to the war, are a
vital means of transportation today for bulk
cargoes over long distances. This, and the
fact that according to MG policy inland
waterways and coastal shipping are to be
used as the preferred means of German in-
ternal transport, has led to concentrated
efforts to reopen approximatelty 1,325 kilo-
meters of trunk and auxiliary waterways
between regions of economic importance in

the US Zone.

WORK OF RAIL BRANCH

The general policy of the Rail Branch is
to control by inspection all phases of opera-

_ tion and maintenance of the German rail-

ways in the US Zone. Its aim is to serve
the occupying forces and essential German
civilian needs through the efficient move-
ment of railway traffic. The Rail Branch
is composed of three sections: Transporta-
tion, Accounting and Finance, and Materials
and Equipment. The Branch has’ a Rear
Echelon in the field, with a closely parallel
organization which is in immediate contact
with the German railway management and
is more directly responsible for field inspec-
tion of, and reports on, the conduct of oper-
ations.

The absence of a central German railway
administration has made it necessary to

--- Page 9 ---
work toward many objectives by negotiation
and agreement with the other three occupy-
ing powers. Among these goals are uniform
freight and passenger rates, bills of lading,
way bills, and budget and accounting forms.
Through rates have been established on
interzonal traffic. Arrangements have been
made with other zones for car interchange,
exchange of spare parts and equipment, and
for mutual assistance in rolling stock repairs.
Conferences are held frequently in which the
needs of the Reichsbahn in the four zones
are correlated with the sources of supply.
So far as the German shipper or consignee
is concerned, almost uninterrupted free
movement of freight now takes place be-
tween the British, French, and American
Zones.

RESTORATION TO AGREED LIMITS

Rail Branch has sought to assist in the
restoration of Germany’s badly disrupted
rail system by permitting the Germans to
restore track and bridges, signal systems,
stations, and roundhouses to a level where
they can function within the agreed limits
of the German economy. The rehabilitation
of rolling stock has required tremendous
output in time and materials. Repair of
cars and locomotives was not given high
priority by the Germans during the war, and
direct destruction from bombs’ was formid-
able. As a result, rolling stock and repair
plants in Germany were in a deplorable
state at the cessation of hostilities. In order
to repair railroad equipment, however, MG
has found that it must first recondition the
repair shops. Numerous obstacles have also
been uncovered in providing food and
clothes for shop workers. “Private shops
contacted to assist in repair work have
brought a similar chain of problems.

Besides the traffic indigenous to Germany.
the Reichsbahn (German railway) in the US
Zone has transported millions of displaced
persons as well as materials and dismantled
machinery being sent abroad as restitution
and reparations. It also has handled large
amounts of UNRRA goods destined for other
lands and has been a bridge for many train-

loads of commodities between country of
origin and of consumption. While efforts
have been made to dovetail the various forms
of transport as. much as possible, the brunt
of transportation in Germany has fallen
upon the rail system.

To implement the new bizonal policy, a
central German organization is being set up
to administer the railways of the combined
zones, with American and British personnel
as inspectors and supervisors. These Ameri-
can peronnel have been selected and this
organization is presently functioning in
Bielefeld. The Germans are being required
to operate the railroads themselves. Only
when their conduct or policies impinge on
those of Military Government or create
problems transcending zonal limits do they
receive direct orders through the German
Executive Committee for Transport from
MG for correction. On most matters the
attitude of the Branch toward the Reichs-
bahn is one of helpfulness within the frame-
work of established OMGUS policy.

SUPERVISION OF HIGHWAYS

The Road Branch of the Transport Divi-
sion establishes policy and controls by in-
specting German authorities in the restora-
tion and operation of German highways and
highway transport... To carry out its work,
the Branch forms basic policies on German
civilian highway maintenance and highway
transport, local cartage, warehousing, and
freight forwarding; determines on a current
basis the requirements of the German econ-
omy and establishes a maximum level for
highways and highway transport consistent
with basic MG objectives; supports the Ger-
mans in procuring essential highway and
highway transport supplies not otherwise
available to Genman economy; and super-
vises German authorities to see that they
follow MG policy and objectives.

There are four sections in the Road
Branch; the Highway Administration and
Traffic Section, which deals with legislative
matters within the scope of the Branch; the
Vehicle Maintenance and Supply Section,
concerned with maintenance and supply for

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 10 ---
CIVIL
ADMINISTRATION

government, responsible to the people

and democratic in spirit, is one of the
best guarantees of peace. But the democrat-
ization of Germany has fundamental polit-
ical implications: The institutions, the basic
processes, and the very personnel of gov-
ernment provide the framework for democ-
racy. It is with these institutions and
processes of German Government that the
Civil Administration Division is concerned.

In all of its work in the field of govern-
mental organization, the Division has at-
tempted to adhere to the basic definition of
democratic organization which it prepared
and incorporated in the 30 September 1946
directive, referred to as “Relationships
between Military and Civil Government (US
Zone) Subsequent to Adoption of Land
Constitutions.” In that document democracy
was defined as:

“AIl political power is recognized as
originating with the people and subject to
their control; those who exercise political

power are obliged to regularly renew their —

mandates by frequent references of their
programs and leadership to popular elec-
tions; popular elections are conducted under
competitive conditions in which not less than
two effectively competing political parties
submit their programs and candidates for
public review; political parties must be dem-
ocratic in character and must be recognized
as voluntary associations of citizens clearly
distinguished from, rather than identified
with, the instrumentalities of government;
the basic rights of the individual including

free speech, freedom of religious preference,
the rights of assembly, freedom of political
association, and other equally basic rights
of free men are recognized and guaranteed;
control over the instrumentalities of public
opinion, such as the radio and press, must
be diffused and kept free from governmental
domination; and the rule of law is recognized
as the individual’s greatest single protection
against a capricious and willful expression
of governmental power.”

Within the framework of OMGUS, the
task of organizing German administration
on democratic principles was assigned to
the Civil Administration Division. It was
charged with the responsibility of replacing
nominated councils and appointing officials
on all levels of German administration by
representatives chosen by the people. Guid-
ed by the principles established in the Pots-
dam declaration, and taking into account
the necessary security factors, it was the
task of this Division to prepare and carry
out all measures which have now led to the
reestablishment of a democratic government
on all levels of German administration
throughout the US Zone.

LEARN DEMOCRACY BY PRACTICE

Nothing is more important to a democratic
government than the election of public of-
ficials. It was felt that, like skiing, the best
way to learn democracy was to practice it.
Accordingly, it was the first task of election
specialists to prepare election schedules
which were put into effect early in 1946. In

--- Page 11 ---
fact, the US Zone was the first to allow the
German people to elect their own officials
in the small communities all over the zone.
The success of this election led ultimately
to elections on higher levels, which were all
held in 1946. Constitutional assemblies have
been elected, state constitutions have been
drafted and approved by referenda’ of thé
people. F

POLITICAL PARTIES SUPERVISED

From these elections stronger political
parties have emerged. In cooperation with
the Office of Political Affairs, the Civil
Administration Division is charged with the
supervision of political parties. Although it
has been US policy not to interfere with
political life, and not to favor any of the
political parties, it is, nevertheless, the task
of this Division to ensure the application of
democratic principles in the development of
German political parties. In Hitler’s gov-
ernment, the party and the government
became so closely intertwined as to be
indistinguishable. This must not happen
again. Since political parties form the
basis for the expression of the public will
and political thinking, it is of great import
to ensure that German political life develops
along democratic lines.

* FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DESIRED

With decentralization and demilitarization
as its goals, it is American policy to en-
courage a federal structure for both the US
Zone and Germany as a whole. Civil Ad-
ministration Division reviewed the constitu-
tions enacted by the German states to ensure
that they conform to American policy. Plan-
ning is underway for the territorial organiza-
tion of Germany looking toward a suitable
solution for the relationship of state gov-
ernments to a future federal government.
Insofar as the action of the Laenderrat or
various bizonal agencies affect governmental
structure, the Civil Administration Division
also is directly concerned.

Population and survey reviews are under-
taken to ensure an accurate statistical back-

ground for political analysis and planning
purposes. The new boundaries of Germany

- and. thé policy of resettling the whole Ger-

man population from all over Europe within
the territory of the four zones — especially
the Gerfnans of the areas east of Oder-Neisse
and the German minority of Czechoslovakia

“= brought about a great influx of popula-

tion in this area. War losses caused a sur-
plus of women of more than seven millions.

‘These radical changes influence all fields of

social and economic life and illustrate the
manner in which population data concern
the general planning responsibilities of the
Civil Administration Division.

CIVIL SERVICE DEMOCRATIZED

Since government in a democracy must be
administered by honest and fair-minded men,
the democratization of the German civil
service was among the most important of the
tasks assigned to the Civil Administration
Division. First, the worst feature added
during the Nazi period had to be erased.
This phase of reform is still being carried
out. Next, it was necessary to set forth the
kind of structure acceptable to MG objec-
tives. This took form in three Personnel
Agencies situated in each state of the US
Zone. Moreover, the few remaining civil
servants (without Nazi records) recruited as
the future nucleus of the program were
required to develop a body of rules or codes
under which the system could function.
Their efforts were reviewed by MG person-
nel specialists to insure conformance with
broad policy as well as to insure adequate
technical application. At present, the staffs
are being recruited for the various personnel
offices throughout the US Zone and the
MG staff is reviewing the German sugges-
tions and recommendations to cover the
coming installation of new and more demo-
cratic technical processes.

US policy has not been to transplant the
brand of civil service known in any level
of the American government, but to revise
the German program. The attempt is to
assesa the requirements of the present situa-

--- Page 12 ---
tion, and build solutions not “ready-made”
but “tailor-made” to the conditions. Those
principles of sound personnel and merit sys-
tem administration which rest behind a firm
civil service program are being advanced:
such as entrance tests on an open compet-

itive basis; equal for equal work;~n0:
q pay +

separations in classes within the same service.

ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS SET UP

In a democracy, the greatest safeguard
for the rights of the individual is the rule of
law. Administrative Courts, which serve to
protect the individual against the unbridled
and arbitrary action of the German Govern-
ment, have been reestablished under the gen-
eral supervision of the Civil Administration
Division. Their reopening was in accordance
with the provisions of the Laenderrat code
approved by OMGUS, 17 September 1946.
Two levels of Administrative Courts are
functioning throughout the US Zone except
in Bremen, where there is one court.

The machinery for the legal protection of
the individual is thus in readiness. For
thirteen years the German had no rights as
against his government; the task, therefore,
is to persuade the German people and the
German judges themselves that their rights
are once more secure.

POLICY ENFORCEMENT IN FIELD

A separate branch of the Civil Administra-
tion Division is entrusted with the vital task
of policy enforcement. It has the responsibil-
ity of determining, by inspection, compliance
of Land, Regierungsbezirk, and Kreis mili-
tary and civil authorities with MG directives.
In contrast to the other branches, Policy
Enforcement is not represented in the Civil
Administration Division at Land level but
Operates directly from its Berlin office.
Representatives of the Branch are attached
for three-month periods to the Laender,
where they carry out the inspections of
Liaison and Security Offices, Land Offices
of Military Government, and corresponding

offices of German Government. These rep-
resentatives are in constant contact with
the Branch in OMGUS, so that they are
thoroughly aware of policies. —

MG - GERMAN AGENCY RELATIONS

~"With the adoptions of constitutions in the
Laender, Civil Administration Division as-
sumed a new function. In an OMGUS direct-
ive of 30 September 1946, the policy gov-
erning the relationship of Military Govern-
ment to German Government after the adop-
tion of those constitutions was laid down.
As the Division most directly concerned with
German governmental agencies on all levels,
it has become the responsibility of the Civil
Administration Division to assist in the
regulation of Military and German Govern-
ment relations so far as they effect political
and governmental institutions, and to assure
uniform compliance with policy defined by
this directive, which gives German Govern-
ment large responsibilities and authorities,
and removes Military Government control
except in certain specified fields. It is a
Divisional responsibility to coordinate the
application and implementation of this non-
intervention policy, and to safeguard and
promote German constitutional development
by inspection, analysis, consultation, and
advice.

Finally, it is the task of the Civil Adminis-
tration Division together with the Frenza,
British, and Soviet representatives of the
corresponding Civil Administration Divisions,
to work within the framework of the Allied
Control Authority for the application of
democratic principles throughout the whole
of occupied Germany. To that end the Civil
Administration Committee of the directorate
of Internal Affairs and Communications,
with its several sub-committees and working
parties, engages in frequent conferences with
its opposite numbers in order to work on the
many problems of civil administration per-
taining to all four zones of occupation in
Germany.

--- Page 13 ---
PUBLIC SAFETY

Po Safety, in US Government terms,
means the wide variety of protective
services offered by police and fire preven-
tion forces. In the Military Government of
Germany, Public Safety assumes an ad-
ditional responsibility, the denazification
program.

Objectives of Military Government with
respect to public safety agencies were two-
fold at the beginning of the occupation.
They included the elimination of the Nazi
and militaristic structure of these police and
fire services, and the rebuilding of an efficient,
stable organization to maintain law and
order. To accomplish these aims, a public
safety organization was established stretch-
ing from Military Government (G-5) at the
USFET level through the Public Safety
Branch of the Internal Affairs and Com-
munications Division, OMGUS, and from
the Land Public Safety Brae to the
Kreis Detachments.

Following established United States pol-
icy, MG’s first step was to decentralize all
police and fire agencies so that each German
governmental unit would have a locally-
responsible law enforcement and fire fight-
ing agency. Former groups were abolished
and new protective services established. Po-
lice no longer could wear military uniforms,
and basic customs were changed including
the administrative and quasi-judicial func-
tions the police exercised in Nazi times. New
agencies have been established and their
functions limited to those traditionally exer-
cised by police forces in a democracy; that
is, enforcement of the law and the protection
of life and property.

The police agencies included within the
scope of the MG Public Safety organization

10

are those corresponding to city, county, and
state police (including border police) in the
United States. Recently, the Germans them-’
selves recommended that the “state” or Land
police be broken down into what would be
virtually county police, under the adminis-
trative control of the local governmental!
unit which they serve. This change has
been approved by Military Government and
is being currently implemented. At the pres-
ent time, the number of police discharging
normal public safety functions in the US
Zone is 28,600. Of these, 17,800 are munic-
ipal police and the balance are state (or
tural) police.

WORK OF BORDER POLICE

In addition to these well-known police
agencies, another law-enforcing body exists
which falls into a comparable American
category. This is the border police, charged
with preventing illegal entry of persons and
goods. It is the only completely centralized
police group in the US Zone, with adminis-
tration at Land level under the appropriate
German Ministry. The German border po-
lice supplement the US Military Forces in
patroling the frontiers. To handle the
affairs of the border police, close coordina-
tion between the Public Safety and Finance
Branches of Military Government is nec-
essary, since the latter supervises the func-
tions normally performed by customs agen-
cies. There are 3,700 border police in the
US Zone.

Not only in the case of border police but
also in many other phases of public safety,
coordination is necessary between Public
Safety and other branches and divisions of
Military Government. Similarly, there must
be close liaison between German police agen-

--- Page 14 ---
cies and organizations in the German govern-
ment. For example, the city and state police
must work with the price control agents of
the German Economics offices in the sup-
pression of black market activities.

There are many other agencies perform-
ing specialized functions of a police charac-
ter in the US Zone such as game wardens,
foresters, railway police, and waterways
police. These are supervised not by Public
Safety but by other appropriate divisions of
Military Government. Public Safety is con-
cerned solely with maintaining law and
order under conditions associated with the
activities of ordinary living.

In the first stages of the occupation, the
objectives of Military Government in the
Public Safety field were accomplished by
the Public Safety officers at the Land and
detachment levels. They directed the dis-
charging of unwanted personnel, the reorgan-
izing of the individual police and fire de-
partments in a manner conforming to OM-
GUS policies, and the supervising of each
department to ensure its continued operation
in conformance with these policies.

PUBLIC SAFETY A GERMAN JOB

At the present time, however, complete
responsibility for public safety services has
been given to the Germans by Military Gov-
ernment. MG now issues no directives to
individual departments and exercises no
direct control beyond frequent inspections
to check efficiency and operation in accord-
ance with established policy. It becomes,
therefore, the responsibility of the public
safety representative in the field, at the
Land level and at the lowest level—the
Liaison and Security detachment—to deter-
mine whether these policies are being carried
out, and this is established by inspection and
not by direct action. The necessary liaison
is handled by these MG officials between
Military Government and the German agen-
cies, and between the German organizations
and the military arm of the occupational
forces.

Since the administration of the police and
fire departments is now strictly a problem

11

for the Germans, any changes required by
US policy are referred not to a local agent
but to the highest German government offi-
cial, the Land Minister-President, and action
is taken by him through his “channels.”

Although these Public Safety services are
administered entirely by the Germans, the
occupation forces must depend upon them
for protection. For this reason, MG public
safety representatives are assisting the Ger-
mans in solving problems of personnel re-
cruitment, training, and procurement of
equipment.

SHORTAGE OF POLICE EQUIPMENT

Supplies and equipment have been and
still are a major bottleneck to efficient police
and fire operations. The Economics Division
has cooperated in trying to locate material
for uniforms, but the problem is not yet com-
pletely solved. Morale and efficiency are
greatly improved if the individuals have
personal pride in their organization, but this
has been hard to achieve in the outmoded,
threadbare uniforms available in most
centers. The police department of a large
city in the US Zone found its esprit-de-corps
immeasurably improved when, with the
assistance of the Land Public Safety Branch,
old uniform material was dyed and retailor-
ed, so that the force could emerge resplen-
dent in “new” blue uniforms and five-point-
ed police caps.

Transportation is another hurdle; the pro-
curement of bicycles, motorcycles, and auto-
mobiles has been very difficult. Communi-
cation facilities, on the other hand, are being
restored with the consultant help of Public
Safety and the Communications Branch of
Military Government. A zonewide police
teletype network has been established and is
being expanded to make the services avail-
able to all police departments. These im-
proved communications aid in the control
of the narcotics traffic. A full-time OMGUS
staff member is assigned to this particular
work, and on the basis of his observations
throughout the Laender, planning and im-
plementing directives are kept current.

Training curricula are closely supervised

--- Page 15 ---
by Military Government, and considerable
progress is being made currently in the de-
velopment of courses for advanced and spe-
cialized training. Of considerable impor-
tance is the assistance given in establishing
professional ‘standards for fingerprint pro-
grams and criminal identification bureaus.
‘During: the war most of the crime labora-
tories and criminal identification records of
Germany were destroyed, often deliberately.
In one center, all the records were removed
to a paper plant and pulped.

In addition to close liaison with German
agencies in police matters, Military Govern-
ment consolidates for the US Zone all police
and crime statistics assembled and forward-
ed to Land Public Safety Branches by the
German Land Identification Bureaus. These
statistics include offenses by categories
against German and MG laws, arrests, and
distribution of arrestees by age groups, by
sex, and by nationality. They also include
current data on police personnel and equip-
ment. Similar fire statistics are on file.

THEFT MOST PREVALENT CRIME

Using these facts, Public Safety analyzes
crime trends and devises corrective action as
necessary. Foremost in the category of
crimes today is theft. While the problem is
not handled directly by Military Govern-
ment, Public Safety personnel have furnish-
ed many constructive procedures to German
Safety Offices.

“Members of the MG public safety staffs
have been recruited from outstanding police
and fire agencies of the United States. Many
of them have had additional preparatory
training for their specific responsibilities in
Military Government. Among the profession-
al personnel are included a professor of
police administration, former chiefs of po-
lice, a chief of border police, and fire depart-
ment chiefs—all from centers notable for
modern, efficient practices in the field of
public safety.

Responsibilities with respect to the de-
nazification phase of public safety have
changed greatly since the beginning of the
occupation. At that time, the denazification

12

program was established and administered
by Military Government. MG officials in-
vestigated and reviewed the records of all
persons in, or applicants for, public office;
of people holding responsible positions in
leading private enterprises; and of workers
applying for jobs under military auspices.
As a result of this review, individuals were
declared either employable or unemployable.

The initial task of vetting these groups
had been completed by the time the Law
for Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism went into effect. In all, the cases
of approximately 1,500,000 persons were
reviewed. Of these, 16 percent were found
unemployable and were refused appoint-
ment or removed from office. With the
passing of the Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism in March
1946, and its implementation at the beginn-
ing of June, the Germans took over the ad-
ministration of the denazification program
under the procedure established by the law,
which had been passed in identical form by
all three Laender.

APPLICANTS VETTED BY LCB’S

Of the previous denazification procedures
administered by Military Government
through its Special Branches, only a vestige
remains. All personnel seeking employment
in military installations, with Military Gov-
ernment, or as members of the German or-
ganization established to administer the Law
for Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism must be vetted and approved for
their jobs by Land Special Branches before
being appointed. Land Special Branches
are currently reviewing the cases of persons
previously removed by Military Govern-
ment from public and semi-public office and
from positions of responsibility in important
private enterprises where findings of Tri-
bunals would permit them to resume their
former positions. Such persons may not
resume their offices without MG approval.

With exceptions noted above, the denazi-
fication responsibilities of the Public Safety
(Special Branch) representatives of Military
Government are now limited to observation,

(Continued on page 18)

--- Page 16 ---
PRISONERS OF WAR

AND

DISPLACED PERSONS

We War II probably caused more
broken homes

families than any other event in history.
Helping these homeless, wandering people
to find their relatives and start life again is
the central task of the Prisoners-of-War
and Displaced Persons Division, OMGUS.

Displaced persons are defined as citizens
who because of the war are outside the
national boundaries of their own countries,
and who are desirous but unable to return
home or find homes without assistance, or
are to be returned to enemy or ex-enemy
territory. United Nations displaced persons
are those belonging to United Nations
countries and those assimilated to them in
status such as stateless persons, enemy, and
ex-enemy nationals who were persecuted be-
cause of their race, religion, or activities in
favor of the United Nations.

‘When Hitler offered German citizenship
to those of German origin living in countries
surrounding Germany, many thousands who
were citizens of Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, and Austria renounced the coun-
try in which they were living to become a
part of the so-called “Greater Reich.” At
Potsdam, the Allies decided that if countries
_ which had been betrayed by their former
citizens wished to expel these German minor-
ities, Germany must accept them. Later, the
ACA Coordinating Committee agreed on the
number of expellees to be accepted from

and more scattered

13

Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Austria by each zone.

It has been the job of the PW & DP
Division to make arrangements with the
expelling countries for transportation, and
to determine the conditions under which
these transfers would take place. The Di-
vision insisted that transfers be made under
humane conditions and that the rate of
transfer would be regulated so that the
overcrowded conditions in the US Zone
would not be further aggravated by these
thousands of homeless people. Once in the
US Zone, the German authorities assume the
responsibility for the distribution and reset-
tlement of these expellees. More than
1,800,000 so far have been resettled in the
US Zone.

Since 1 December, however, all movement
of expellees into the US Zone has been
suspended until conditions improve. There
is a large backlog of expellees in distribut-
ing centers because of the inability of the
German communities to assimilate these
persons into the German economy. This con-
dition naturally has been aggravated by the
fuel, food, and housing shortage. :

In Germany itself, many thousands are
still homeless because of war destruction or
are living far from their homes because of
wartime evacuations. These people are still
moving about Germany in great numbers,
trying to get to their homes or to find a new

Hungary, and

--- Page 17 ---
place to live. The PW & DP Division reg-
ulates this mass movement by negotiations
with the other occupying powers in order
that the population transfers can be controll-
ed and the overcrowded conditions in the
US Zone do not become worse. The Division
also controls the repatriation of Germans,
now resident in Allied or neutral countries,
who want to return to Germany to live. At
present the applications for return must be
handled on an individual basis due to lack
of food and housing; these persons are
therefore returning in small numbers as
economic conditions in Germany permit.

REFUGEES GERMAN RESPONSIBILITY

Military Government places primary re-
sponsibility on the German authorities for all
matters pertaining to German refugees. At
first, mandatory return of refugees to the
zones of their former domiciles was in force.
However, there was reluctance on the part
of German authorities in the US Zone to
compel refugees to return to zones of their
former residence, and in July 1946, the
Laenderrat requested Military Government
to change the compulsory provision. Unable
to obtain agreement in the Laenderrat for
all three Laender, Greater Hesse requested
voluntary return of refugees, while Bavaria
and Wuerttemberg-Baden asked for approval
of compulsory transfer with broad excep-
tions. Military Government approved these
dual requests.

INTERZONAL EXCHANGE BASIS SET

By Allied Coordinating Committee action
of 6 October 1945, bilateral agreements were
effected between zones of occupation on ex-
change of refugees on a one-for-one basis.
Exchange of refugees between the US and
Soviet Zones began in November 1945
through a zonal border exchange-point. By
the end of May 1946, a total of 198,000 ref-
ugees from the US Zone had been trans-
ferred to the Soviet Zone and 186,000 had
been accepted in return. In addition, the
Soviet Zone has agreed to accept from the
US Zone 200,000 ex-Wehrmacht personnel
whose former homes were in the Soviet

14

Zone. Exchanges of refugees to and from the
British and French Zones have been small.
An estimated 50,000 refugees whose former
homes were in the US Zone are still living in
the three other occupied zones, while ap-
proximately 1,155,000 German refugees from
those three zones still remain in the US Zone.

Out of a total of about 750,000 United
Nations, stateless, and neutral displacec
persons now in Germany, more than 530,000
are in the US Zone. Of these, 375,000 are
being fed, clothed, and housed by the Army
in camps administered by UNRRA. Most of
these people have no homes or do not want
to return to them. Others are in the process
of migrating from their native land to
another country. Whatever their reason may
be for living in the US Zone, they are and
will continue to constitute one of the most
difficult problems facing the US authorities.

Stateless persons are those who in law or
fact do not enjoy the protection of a national
government. Individuals are in this category
only after the failure of every effort to
establish their nationality. If their loyalty
to the Allied cause can be established, they
are accorded the same assistance as is given
to United Nations displaced persons. .

PROBLEM OF STATELESS PERSONS

There are at present in the US Zone
about 26,000 persons claiming to be stateless.
This number is being increased because a
sizeable group of displaced persons are con-
sidered to be non-patriable. These are for
the most part Poles, Balts, Jews, and other
religious, political, or racial groups. The
Inter-Governmental Committee on Refugees
is charged with the negotiation of arrange-
ments for resettling this class of persons.
The number of resettlements of stateless
persons is only 194 and considerably more
time will be needed to complete this project.

The PW & DP Division acts as the MG
representative on DP matters of an inter-
national or quadripartite nature, and acts
as a liaison with USFET and Land Offices
of Military Government.

It is MG policy that all enemy and ex-
enemy nationals (except persecutees and

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 18 ---
ARMED FORCES

he permanent elimination of German

militarism as a threat to world peace is
the principal task of the Armed Forces
Division, OMGUS.

Specifically, this mission includes demobil-
izing all prisoners-of-war, controlling po-
tentially-dangerous ex-members of German
armed forces, watching educational institu-
tions to prevent signs of militarism, eliminat-
ing military training and veterans’ organiza-
tions, destroying all war materials or con-
verting them to peacetime uses, removing
minefields and fortifications, reducing the
industrial war potential, controlling scientif-
ic research and development, and liquidat-
ing military and Nazi memorials, museums,
and literature.

The Armed Forces Division has three
branches to carry out its demilitarization
work — Army, Navy, and Air Force. Head-
ed by senior officers, these branches operate
with a small staff to complete the final stage
of German demilitarization. In addition,
there is the Civil Aviation Branch composed
of civil aviation specialists, some of whom
are “on loan” from the Civil Aeronautics
Authority and the Meteorological Section of
OMGUS. Since the Division has no field
agencies it works with other Divisions of
OMGUS and USFET in doing its job.

DIRECTOR IS ADVISOR TO DMG

Through their Division Director, the three
branches advise the Deputy Military Gov-
ernor on eliminating and suppressing mili-
tarism, giving special attention to the for-
mer German army, navy, and air forces.
As members of quadripartite army, navy,
and air committees, the branch chiefs for-
mulate policies and plans for the treatment

15

of German demilitarization problems as a
whole. The civil aviation personnel promote
the development of US aviation in support
of Military Government and, eventually, in
support of the German economy. The Me-
teorological Section supervises the re-
establishment of the meteorological or-
ganization in the US Zone and represents the
United States in the Quadripartite Group
supervising the German weather service as
a whole.

As the MG agency in charge of prisoners- *
of-war, the Armed Forces Division develops
and puts into effect US demobilization
policies. Currently, all persons in US cus-
tody are being discharged, and by 1 February
only about 42,000 remained in camps. These
men are engaged in labor service for US
Forces. It is expected that all of them will
be released before 1 July 1947. i

No releases are granted on individual
request. To do so would clog administrative
channels and delay the demobilization pro-
cess without appreciably benefiting the in-
dividual involved. In rare cases when a
prisoner’s release is requested by Military
Government and it is necessary to fill an
important German civilian position, action
is taken. Requests to this Division for the
release of PW’s in Allied custody are nor-
mally handled in the same manner.

A great many PW matters do not involve
releases. Such questions as loss of property
while in US custody, pensions, and pay for
labor are given individual attention and
every effort is made to satisfy a rightful
claim. At present, however, many such
claims cannot be setiled since foreign cur-
rencies are involved.

Denazification proceedings, although not

--- Page 19 ---
a primary responsibility of the Armed For-
ces Division, are carefully followed with
respect to German militarists. The Division
must see to it. that high-ranking officers, the
General Staff Corps, and other militaristic
elements do not become a threat to the peace:
‘When more of these military men are releas-
ed, this futiction of the Division will increase
in importance.

Reeducation of German youth and adults
is indirectly a responsibility of the Division.
for democratic indoctrination tends to ex-
clude nationalistic and militaristic beliefs.
The Division’s primary mission in this field
is to eliminate military training and nation-
alistic instruction. Not only schools but also
sport clubs, associations of various kinds,
political groups, youth groups, parades,
mass calisthenics, and demonstrations — all
may develop militaristic tendencies.

The elimination of Nazi and warlike
museums, monuments, and literature is
another phase of demilitarization involved in
reeducation. This concerns the Armed For-
ces Division not only because it is a part of
the over-all program, but because the
quadripartite proposals originated in the
Military Directorate of the Allied Control
Authority.

Veterans’ organizations are forbidden and
constant surveillance is necessary to prevent
their reorganization. The tendency to cor-
respond with wartime comrades, to form unit
associations, and to organize for mutual ben-
efit is no less present in Germany than in
other countries. Associations at this time
might be largely innocuous, but if permitted
to exist, would in all probability develop
into highly nationalistic organizations.

PROBLEM OF WAR MATERIALS

The destruction of war materials is, in
itself, no great problem. But complications
arise as a result of the Division’s efforts to
utilize as much of the material as possible
for peacetime purposes. Currently, .ammuni-
tion is being converted into fertilizer; optical
instruments are being dismantled; and motor
parts are being sorted for use in the civilian
economy. Operationally, this is a function

16

of the Econuimics Division but the demili-
tarization phase belongs to the Armed Forces
Division.

The control of the industrial war poten-
tial, and scientific research and development
also are primarily a function of the Econo-
mics Division. The Armed Forces Division.
however, is interested in their technical
aspects and advises the Economics Division.
Some installations must be destroyed, some
must be converted to peacetime uses, and
others must be made available for reparations.

Fortifications, public air raid shelters, and
minefields are primarily defensive, but they
constitute a war potential since they contrib-
ute to the ability to wage offensive war.
These installations are being destroyed by
field units with staff responsibility resting
with the Armed Forces Division. Some of
these structures are being used by US
troops, DP’s, and refugees and for this
reason careful coordination is necessary in
planning the destruction program.

FUNCTION OF AIR BRANCH

The Air Forces Branch of the Armed
Forces Division has the function of liquidat-
ing and permanently suppressing German air
power; the Civil Aviation Branch that of
promoting US and Allied air transport
systems. This latter function is in contrast
to the negative work of suppressing air war
potential and presents the problems of
establishing air routes through Germany,
developing air navigational aids and air-
fields, and putting into effect safety clearance
and special permit regulations.

The Civil Aviation Branch is an instru-
ment in the development of the basic US
aviation policy, which seeks to extend certain
airlines to connect the United States with
the most important world centers of popula-
tion and trade. This policy is the result of
studies formulated by the War, Navy, State,
and Commerce Departmenits, and is expressed
in directives of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and
other agencies. These are the guiding instru-
ments in the business of reestablishing US
aviation in Germany and in coordinating ef-
forts to advance air routes crossing Germany.

--- Page 20 ---
The Quadripartite Air Committee serves
as a means of standardizing flying pro-
cedures, especially in the Berlin area, where
aircraft of the four occupying nations and
other Allies are flying with widely varying
equipment, operating procedures, and train-
ing. An Air Committee agreement jis the
basis for the operation of the Berlin Air
Safety Center at the ACA Building for the
control and safety regulation of aircraft
flying within a 20-mile radius of Berlin. The
Committee established the three air corridors
passing over the Soviet Zone connecting Ber-
lin with Frankfurt, Hamburg, and Buecke-
burg. Current objectives are to set corridors
for free flight from Berlin in the direction
of Warsaw and Prague, and eventually to
establish complete freedom for over-flying
Germany.

NEW AIR EQUIPMENT ENCOURAGED

Through liaison, the US aviation personnel
promotes and encourages. the use of US
navigational equipment and procedure for
bad-weather flying both for the advantage
of US and Allied aviation in Europe. No-
table in this field is the operation of a US
radio range in the Berlin-Frankfurt corridor,
with part of the equipment being operated
by Soviet personnel at a village southeast
of Berlin. This work, of course, is closely
coordinated with USFET and USAFE as
the theater operating agencies; the Office of
the Political Advisor as a representative of
the State Department; and the US Depart-
ment of Commerce, through the CAA ad-
visers attached to the Armed Forces Division.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff papers direct
that German aviation be eliminated as a
dangerous potential for the revival of mili-
tarism. Changeover from the manufacture of
transport aircraft to bombers was a short
step readily accomplished by the Nazis. The
Potsdam Agreement prohibits the manufac-
ture of all aircraft and is the authority for
one of the basic responsibilities of the Com-
bined Services Directorate — elimination of
the German air war potential. The Quadri-
partite Air Committee has made studies and
Tecommendations regarding prohibition of

German aviation activities, potential dangers
of aviation personnel, disarmament and con-
trol of the aviation industry, prevention of
passive defense characteristics in industry,
and a uniform policy for the destruction of
German air force installations. Other direc-
torates are consulted in connection with the
destruction or disposal of aircraft, airfields,
and air weapons.

This work is now practically completed.
All of the more than 4,000 German aircraft
and 30,000 engines captured in the US Zone
have been destroyed, surplus airfields re-
turned to agriculture, and special equipment
destroyed or converted to peacetime use. A
proposed law to prohibit German aviation
is under consideration in the Combined Serv-
ices Directorate.

The Chief of the Meteorological Section of
the Aviation Branch is the US member of the
Quadripartite Committee on Meteorology.
The primary responsibility of this Commit-
tee is to formulate plans and, policies for the
development of a meteorological service in
Germany, which will serve the needs of the
occupying forces, the international require-
ments, and permissible internal economy.

GERMANY KEY SPOT IN METEOROLOGY

The territory of Germany occupies an
important position in international meteorol-
ogy, situated as it is in the central portion
of Europe and far enough north to be within
the well-known storm tracks. The rehabilita-
tion of meteorology in Germany is essential
for international aviation and other forms of
communication, as well as for national com-
munications, industry, and agriculture.

The Meteorological Section supervises the
organization and operation of the German
Meteorological Organization in the US Zone

_ where approximately 459 Germans are em-

17

ployed. Similar organizations are in opera-
tion in the other zones. Their ultimate
merging will reconstitute the German Natio-
nal Meterological Service.

The Naval Branch of the Armed Forces
Division is charged with the elimination and
permanent suppression of German sea power.
Through its work and in connection with the

--- Page 21 ---
Tripartite Naval Commission which was set
up by the Potsdam Agreement, it has com-
pleted the task of eliminating the Kriegs-
marine. Before the end of 1945 the Tripar-
tite Naval Commission had disposed of 1,713
German war vessels by dividing them among
the three powers, Great Britain, United
States, and the Soviet Union. The US was
allocated 671 of the vessels, including the
Prinz Eugen, which was used as a test vessel
at Bikini Atoll. Certain damaged or in-
complete vessels were designated for destruc-
tion. The Commission also has handled the
allocation of 375 naval-harbor-servicing craft,
floating docks, and other equipment. Many
ex-German minesweepers and trawlers are
on loan so that the German Minesweeping
Administration, under close supervision of
the Navy, can carry out the job of sweeping
mines from the waters north of Europe.

PUBLIC SAFETY (Continued from page 12)

supervision, and liaison in connection with
the administration of the Law for Libera-
tion from National Socialism and Militarism
by the Germans. These duties involve spot
checks of the denazification program at all
levels from the Ministry to the Tribunals,
including the German Labor Office and Ger-
man Finance Office which enforce sentences
imposed by the Trial Tribunal.

Special Branch elements of Military Gov-
ernment are faced increasingly with specific
problems in carrying out denazification.
One of the most recent is that arising from
the Nazi background of German university
teaching staffs in the US Zone. Representa-
tives from the Civil Administration Division,
the Education and Religious Affairs Branch
of the Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, and Special Branch have visited
all universities and have examined the re-
cords of the staff members for the purpose
of initiating corrective action.

The transfer of Civilian Internment En-
closures to the Germans and the continuing
evaluation of their administration are obli-
gations of Special Branches.

18

The German merchant marine also was
considered a war potential, and a Tripartite
Merchant Marine Commission was set up by
the Potsdam Agreement to dispose of the
ships. A limited tonnage in small freighters
and tankers was reserved for the German
peacetime economy; the rest, 492 vessels, was
divided among the three nations.

The US Navy made recommendations to
the Army on the handling and disposition of
Kriegsmarine personnel and released these
prisoners to Army PW enclosures. In addi-
tion, it advised the Army on the disarmament
of shore establishments and coastal defensés
in the US Zone.

The greater portion of the work of elimi-
nating German sea power has been accom-
plished but the Naval Branch must continue
its vigilance to prevent tendencies toward the
revival of naval war potential.

The supervisory function of Military Gov-
ernment with respect to the administration
of the law requires that review of certain
cases completed by the Tribunals be made
by detachment officers to determine whether
prosecutors and tribunals have followed the
procedures established by the law. Delin-
quencies and errors usually fall into four
main classes: Failure or inadequacy of
public prosecutors; erroneous decisions by
trial tribunals; inadequate enforcement of
sanctions; and evidence of impropriety on
the part of an official. ‘Where correction
cannot be made immediately, the report is
forwarded for action to the appropriate
Land Special Branch and, after consideration
there, to the Minister for Political Libera-
tion.

Military Government emphasize statistic-
al reporting in denazification work so that
it can evaluate the progress being made. It
establishes forms and procedures for use in
reporting by both Land Special Branches
and the German Ministers for Political Liber-
ation. The actual assembling and evaluating
of data are made at OMGUS level.

--- Page 22 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tained by writing to the originating head-
quarters.

Public Health Reporting

Changes in MG public health report forms
and report procedures are noted in OMGUS
Directive AG 091.4 (IA), entitled “Revision
of Public Health Reporting System,” dated
11 January 1947. The directive states in
part:

“The reporting system for public health
functional activities has been revised, bring-
ing it up to date to provide only the informa-
tion essential for Military Government review
and evaluation of the German public health
administration following the transfer of
authority for the administration of internal
German affairs in the US Zone to German
agencies.”

Among the changes, 11 reports and report
forms have been revised, two report forms
have been added, and two reports are
eliminated. Sample copies of all new and
changed forms are inclosed with the direct-
ive.

CIC Has No Women Agents

A warning that uniformed women are rep-
resenting themselves as Counter Intelligence
Corps agents is contained in USFET letter,
AG 200.2 GBI-AGO, “Counter Intelligence
Corps Impersonation,” dated 21 January
1947, which declares: “Any woman represent-
ing herself to be an agent of the Counter
Intelligence Corps, regardless of her costume,
should be taken into custody immediately
together with statements or other evidence
secured from witnesses as to her misrepresen-
tation and the nearest Counter Intelligence
Corps office notified.”

The letter also says in part:

“Recent reports have been received which

19

indicate that’ women of both German and
non-German nationality have been wearing
WAC-type uniforms and have been present-
ing themselves as Counter Intelligence Corps
agents to Military Police, Constabulary, Mil-
itary Government, and other agencies.

. “The Counter Intelligence Corps does not
employ female Counter Intelligence Corps
agents . . . Clerical personnel are identified
by the customary AGO card... Agents of
the Counter Intelligence Corps are properly
identified by War Department credentials
and badge.”

Leave Policy Clarified

Further clarification on the existing policy
in regard to taking of leaves of absence is
contained in OMGUS Personnel Bulletin
H-32 F-15 entitled “Leaves in European
Theater for Military Personnel,” dated
6 February 1947. The bulletin states in part:

“Accrued leave is ‘granted either for in-
dividual travel, rest and recreation, or for
diversion essential to the efficiency of per-
sons in the military service.

“The Armed Forces Leave Act of 1946...
and Army Regulations ... both provide
that “leave shall be taken annually as ac-
crued to the extent consistent: with military
requirements and other exigencies.’ Para-
graph 4a, AR 600-115, 20 August 1946, pro-
vides that ‘each commander will insure that
each member of his command is afforded the
opportunity and encouraged to take accrued
leave annually.’

“Commanders will encourage individuals
of their Command to avail themselves fre-
quently of accrued leave and, subject only
to military necessity, all Commanders will
approve such requests for leave. The denial
of a leave must be based on military exigen-
cy, and such denial should be carefully con-
sidered from the factual standpoint to insure
that it may not be regarded as arbitrary or
contrary to the intent of the legislators.

“The Armed Forces Leave Act of 1946...
makes leave time... aright...”

--- Page 23 ---
US Broadcasts to Russia

Russian-language radio broadcasts by the
US Government to the Soviet Union were
inaugurated 17 February on a daily pro-
gram basis. The broadcasts, originating in
State Department studios in New York, are
picked up and simultaneously retransmitted
by three shortwave transmitters in Munich
to the Moscow-Leningrad area.

At present there is a one-hour program at
1800 GMT daily, seven days a week; but
it is planned to expand and widen the scope
of the broadcasts as soon as adequate facili-
ties and personnel are available.

Current broadcasts contain factual, unbias-
ed news of the United States and of the
world; representative American music, both
classical and popular; discussions; and inter-
views and other features designed to present
an accurate and objective picture of US life
in all of its cultural, scientific, and sociolog-
ical aspects. Special attention is to be given
to important statements and speeches by
high US officials explaining US aims and
policies.

Law for Expellees Drafted

OMGUS has directed the Land govern-
ments of the US Zone to enact uniform leg-
islation on expellees. The draft law pro-
vides:

That integration of expellees shall guaran-
tee their organic absorption by the indige-
nous population. Pending enactment of law
concerning citizenship of expellees (now be-
fore the Allied Control Authority) they shall
have the “same rights and duties” as Ger-
man Citizens, including the right to vote and
be elected subject to the same conditions as
the rest of the population.

That expellees shall be granted relief on
the basis of existing general regulations. In
case of particular need, special allowances
may be made, in addition, to procure cloth-

and to meet “other. vital req

Household equipment may be reqyiaition-
ed by refugee offices.

That initial billeting of expellees in emer-
gency or collective quarters “should be a
temporary measure limited to a minimum of
time.” Although temporary “acceptable hous-
ing facilities” are permitted under the law,
it states that allocation, construction, and
equipment of their housing “shall be an im-
portant public responsibility.” Public au-
thorities are obligated to take care of the
equipment of such housing.

That with regard to clothing, household
utensils, and furnishings, the expellees shall
be placed “on an equal status with that part
of the indigenous population who receive
preferential treatment.”

MGR’sNot Binding onGermans

Military Government Regulations are bind-
ing on Military Government personnel but
not on Germans, according to the Legal Ad-
vice Branch, OMGUS.

The opinion states that the earlier MGR
instructionns do not purport to be binding
on the general population in the US Zone
of Germany, the US Sector of Berlin, or in
any other area of Germany under MG
control. They are not published in German
and notice of their content is not brought to
the attention of the population. It follows
that no attempt should be made to prosecute
in court or otherwise punish a member of
the general ss ah for violation of these
regulations.

The Branch says further that the notion
that the population is bound by, or can be
punished for disobedience of, MGR’s runs
wholly counter to the most elementary prin-
ciple of Anglo-American jurisprudence, that
people are bound only by requirements
which are promulgated in the form of law
and brought to public attention in a regulariz-

--- Page 24 ---
ed manner. Therefore, if it is desirable to
make certain material binding upon the
general population of Germany some form
of legislation must be used. Such legislation,
with an effective date stated, should be print-
ed in English and German and compiled
in the official Military Government Gazette
for general publication.

Title 23 of MGR’s contains a compilation
of US Military Government legislation and

such legislation is binding on the general’

population because it is published and issued
as legislation. It is included in MGR’s merely
for the convenience of MG officials. For the
same reason a compilation of Control Council
Legislation is also found in Title 23, but
ample provision has been made for notifying
the German people of Control Council Leg-
islation.

New Tour Information

Information on American Express Tours
to Paris, Riviera, United; Kingdom, and
Denmark has been released by USFET
Headquarters.

The seven-day Paris tour provides sight-
seeing in Paris and Versailles. The Riviera
tour allows seven full days in Nice plus
one night each way in Paris, and includes
sightseeing in Cannes, Grasse, Mentone, and
Monte Carlo.

The United Kingdom tour provides seven
full days in London plus one night each way
in Paris. London, Windsor, Eton, Stoke
Poges, and Hampton Court are on the
itinerary. Military personnel stationed near
Bremen may use the Cuxhaven-Hull route.
Only 20 pounds sterling may be taken into
the United Kingdom but additional funds
may be carried in the form of American
Express checks.

The Denmark tour provides five days in
Copenhagen and departs each Tuesday from
Bremen.

Hotel accommodations in Paris are at the
Ambassador Hotel. In Nice tour personnel
will put up at the Hotel Ruhl, in London at
Kings Court Hotel, and in Copenhagen at
the Savoy. When accomodations are not

U

available at these hotels other hotels of simi-
lar grade. will be utilized. In all cases the
price of meals is included in the price of
the tour.

Military personnel will travel on the basis
of leave orders supported by an AGO card,
or EM’s identification card or tag, whichever
is appropriate. Men will travel in uniform,
women may wear either uniform or civilian
clothes.

Civilian employees (US, Allied, and
neutral) and dependents of all authorized
personnel will need authorization to utilize
transportation facilities and a military entry
permit. Such personnel as possess passports
and visas will travel on the basis of that
authority. Civilian employees may travel in
either uniform or civilian clothing.

General booking procedures and prices are
outlined in USFET letter AG 531 SSP-AGO,
subject “Tours and Services of American
Express Company,” 14 October 1946.

CARE to Provide Dividend

The first “dividend” CARE packages are
ready for distribution to neediest families
throughout the US Zone of Germany and the
US Sector of Berlin. More than 12,000
packages, each containing 40,000 calories of
food, will go to four leading German welfare
agencies as the first dividend. From then
on, at least one of every 20 CARE packages
to be sent to the US Zone will be a dividend
shipment.

In the future, for each 95 Care packages
purchased at the regular price of ten dollars,
CARE will issue a “dividend” of five ad-
ditional packages for distribution to needy
families. Further, a quarterly accounting
will be made, and any profits not absorbed
by the five-percent plan will go into extra
CARE packages, in excess of the original
“dividend.”

German welfare agencies which will share
the responsibility for allocating dividend
CARE packages are the Red Cross, Caritas
Verband, Evangelisches Hilfswerk, and
Arbeiter Wohlfahrt. A similar dividend
plan is in operation in the British and French

--- Page 25 ---
Zones of Germany. At present no contract
has been completed for CARE operations in
the Soviet Zone.

In another relief operation, approximately
5,280,000 gift parcels have been received in
Germany as of 15 February through the
international mails from the United States
— a total amassed in less than nine months.
Of this total, 3,085,000 parcels were mailed
“to Germans in the US Zone, 1,765,000 to the
British Zone, 370,000 to the French Zone and
60,000 to the Soviet Zone.

Postal inspections show that of the total
gift parcels received in Germany from the
United States, delivery could not be made
of less than one-half of one percent of the
parcels, and these failures were due largely
to improper packing or to addressees having
moved without furnishing forwarding ad-
dresses to the Reichspost.

Four Judges for Tribunal

Three judges and one alternate judge have
been appointed by the Deputy Military
Governor to comprise Military Tribunal II.
The tribunal will hear one of the three war
crimes trials scheduled to start in Nurem-
berg within the next six or eight weeks.

The judges are Carrington T. Marshall,
former chief justice of the Ohio Supreme
Court, presiding; James T. Brand, justice of
the Supreme Court of Oregon; and Mallory
B. Blair, former associate justice of the Court
of Civil Appeals of the Third District of
Texas. The alternate judge is Justin W.
Harding, a former assistant attorney general
of Ohio.

Books from Kiev Found

Fifteen thousand volumes of books and
periodicals out of the library of the Kiev
(Russian) Institute for Research in Physics
and Chemistry was found by US Property
Control officials at the “Festspielhaus” in
Bayreuth, Bavaria, together with more than
1000 pieces of laboratory material which
have been collected from the Educational
Building, the Science and Modern Language
Building, and from private homes of Russian

and Ukrainian DP’s in Bayreuth.

The entire collection has been gathered
together at the Festspielhaus, where it is
being inventoried. The property will remain
in Bayreuth until a restitution claim from
Russia has been approved by Monuments,
Fine Arts and Archives Section, Economics
Division, OMGUS. The material in the
library contains books and periodicals writ-
ten in various European and Asiatic langua-
ges dating back to 1830. The laboratory
equipment includes many delicate chemical
balances and other precision apparatus.

Two AG Pass Forms Now Void

The distribution of the following passes
has been discontinued: OMGUS AG Pubs
774/5M/26/12/45 (Pink) (Temporary) issued
by the Visitors Bureau, and AG PD
8M/8/-45/608, a four language pass issued by
the Adjutant General. Effective 15 February
1947, all of the above identified passes now
in circulation were declared void.

Shoe Production in Zone

During 1946 the footwear industry in the
US Zone produced 13,539,400 pairs of shoes,
7,455,752 of which were made of leather: The
number of pairs produced for the US Army
totaled 409,005, out of which 324,000 were
manufactured of leather supplied from Ger-
man sources.

This showed that less than two percent
of the present total leather capacity ih the
US Zone and 4.3 percent of 1946 production
of shoes from German leather was used in
the manufacture of footwear for the US
Army. As a comparison, the German Army
in 1938 took 18 percent of the German
leather shoe output and, in 1943, 29 percent.

During 1946 more than 155 tons of worn
US Army shoes were turned over to the
Laenderrat and allocated to German shoe
manufacturers. The weight involved was the
equivalent of 190,000 pairs of shoes. More
than 100 tons of rubber scrap was made
available to the German economy from US
Army salvage dumps in 1946.

--- Page 26 ---
Somber Realism Advocated

For Expected Peace Treaty

The Oberbayerisches Volksblatt (Rosen-
heim) in an editorial on the peace treaty
exhibited somber realism and resigned ac-
ceptance of Germany’s fate for the coming
years. The writer, Winfried Martini,
thought that, even if a German government
would exist, it could not take upon itself
the signing of the peace treaty. He believed
therefore that it “would be honest to impose
the peace on Germany,” adding:

“It would then be an extension and modi-
fication of the Potsdam Agreement. This
would correspond more closely to the total
responsibility to which Kurt Schumacher
(SPD leader) referred as the consequence
of total victory, than a treaty whose German
signature would necessarily have a very
doubtful value.”

Martini, in asking why Italy, Japan, and
Austria are treated so differently from Ger-
many, saw the answer in the general assump-
tion abroad that Germany is the major and
the original aggressor. He believed that
“a refutal of this theory . . . could be use-
ful.” He believed that the treaty will be
based on the “intentions” evident-in the
Potsdam Agreement, the occupation policies,
and international discussion. He then warn-
ed to be realistic:

“Tt is certainly possible that, in some re-
spects, modifications will be made in our
favor. But we shall do well not to surrender
to illusions, and to assume instead that the
principles of punishing Germany, of’ repa-
rations, and of removing her power of ag-
gression, based on the above theory, will be
decisive. We should realize that in the
name of the two last principles German in-
dustrial capacity will be reduced so that
even the satisfaction of peacetime require-
ments will be questionable—especially in
view of the extent of destruction, the catas-
trophic loss of extensive agricultural areas.

23

acquaint ourselves early with the realization
that the peace intended for us will indeed
bring some relief—perhaps there will again
be international protection of German
patents and copyrights, perhaps Germans
will again be allowed to travel abroad, but
on the whole we should cease hoping that
the present condition is only temporary. To
be impregnated against illusions has the ad-
vantage of making surprises appear pleas-
ant. We must not quarrel, an appeal on the
basis of the Atlantic Charter is senseless and
has no chance. We have to accept it as the
eternal fate of the defeated and as the in-
evitable consequence of the unparalleled
hatred sown by Hitler. We are facing facts
and our only action can now be relentless
realism.”

Praise for US Writings

Commenting on the treatment of Germany
in the English and American papers and pe-
riodicals which have been available for some
time to the Germans, the Badische Neueste
Nachrichten (Karlsruhe) said:

“Reading the millions of words that have
been written about Germany and trying to
find out for whose profit they are written
one gradually becomes aware of an amazing
fact: They are written to help us and only
us. Because over there one is convinced that
our case is not at all incurable. One does not
at all intend to apply to us a Nazi Race
Theory in reverse. On the contrary, what
is going on under the labels ‘demilitariza-
tion’ and ‘denazification’ is nothing but the
beginning of a gigantic work of education
that the Allies have undertaken... .

“The people in those countries have as-
tounding insight into their own mistakes.
They do not regard the first two years of
the educations enterprise (that after all is
calculated to take generations) as having

--- Page 27 ---
been a very happy beginning. The reasons for
that lie in the extent of the German catas-
trophe, in phenomena inseparable from mil-
itary occupation, and in the different con-
ceptions of democracy that exist among the
Allies.”

Defense of Ruhr Retention

Expressing the belief that the Ruhr must
remain an integral part of Germany, the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) said:

“Everybody in Germany knows that the
loss of the Ruhr territory would mean the
death-blow for us. It is the arsenal of peace
production, which alone could guarantee us
the minimum of existence. Six million Ger-
mans live there. . . There is not the slightest
necessity of separation for the security of
France.

“Economic control will provide all guar-
antee. Once this control is established that
‘barrier of fear’ will be removed, which up
to now stood in the way of a second devel-
opment of peaceful industrial potential.

“To put it more clearly, the production
of coal and steel in the Ruhr territory could
even be raised. This rise would benefit Ger-
many and Europe. In a genuinely peaceful
system it leaves the Ruhr with Germany,
where it belongs, along the lines of the sol-
emn principles of the Atlantic Charter.”

Boy Eager for Facts

The Suedost Kurier (Bad Reichenhall)
published the report of a German father
who told his son, “No, I'don’t want you tq
ape anything American, only I find it fits
you so much better and, besides, it’s much
more friendly.” To this the father added:
“When I think how the fathers of two or
three generations ago would have reacted to
such a thing—I’ll teach you to have respect
for your father—I somewhat felt mollified
and raised in my self-esteem.”

The boy had been putting questions to
him like: “Say, Pop, what do you think
of Marshall (George. C. Marshall, new US
Secretary of State)?” or “Say, Pop, why
did Leon Blum have to resign so quickly?”
Such questions made the father reflect on

24

the changed relationship between youth and
the press. The report continued:

In the olden times “most of the parents
simply forbade their children to read’ news-
papers out of fear that it somehow might
spoil the children. And when the: children
then . . . perhaps even in the last decade
— secretly sometimes glanced into the pa-
per ... they certainly did not look into
politics.

“Today, as soon as the paper comes it
is ‘confiscated’ by the son who reads it
from A to Z and insists that all the boys
are doing that. ‘One has to know what’s
going on, especially in politics’ (and that
not at all prompted by the school, but out
of a personal urge). And where necessary,
‘Pop’ has to explain... .

“Such a boy knows already a surprising
lot about ‘veto right’, the ‘10 percent para-
graph’ (in the Bavarian constitution), and
‘land reform.’ In that respect our
boys today are considerably ahead of us.
They go consciously into the new age, as
if they had a sure instinct that they will
be called upon to do better than the ‘pre-
vious generation.”

Bewilderment of Youth

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-
bischofsheim) reported on the bewilderment
of German youth — youth that is not cor-
tupt, but does not know where to turn, be-
cause “the idea of democracy has not been
able to convince anybody, because its’ Ger-
man practice up to now has failed.” The
report continued:

“Against this, the ever-so-true fact that
we must build democracy out of economic
and cultural chaos helps little. Toward the
Occupying Powers the more valuable among
German youth are skeptical and worse, be-
cause single individuals of the foreign pow-
ers tear down what the good will of their
governments is building up. However, it is
more important to realize that all German
political factors have failed to win the con-
fidence not only of youth, but of the whole

. people.”

--- Page 28 ---
Atomic Bombs Shortened War

US newspapers generally welcomed former
Secretary of War Stimson’s article in Har-
per’s Magazine and President Truman’s
letter in Atlantic Monthly as clarifying the
steps and responsibilities attendant to the
use of atomic bombs to shorten the war
against Japan.

The New York Times said in part: “Both
are keenly aware of the gravity of the step
they took. But both agree in their promises
and their reasoning, which led to an unchal-
lengeable justification of. their judgment.
Both accept full responsibility—President
Truman for making the final decision, Mr.
Stimson for recommending it.

“As Mr. Stimson shows, the use of the
bomb was no sudden inspiration. On the
contrary, the bomb was the product of a
desperate race with the Germans . . . in
which the Germans had a head start. There
was never any plan except to use the bomb
as a legitimate if deadly weapon as soon
as it could be perfected. When it was ready,
all those who had anything to do with it
agreed that it should be used . . .

“As weapons, and despite their terrifying
potency, the two bombs caused less death
and devastation than the incendiary raids
over Tokyo. But the psychological impact
of the new weapon, and the dread of more
to come, put an end to the war, and, by
sacrificing thousands of lives, saved millions.
That is the justification for the bomb’s use.

“Yet Stimson, like many others, is well
aware that a justification by practical results
cannot be the final one.

“For otherwise it would be no more than
the German military thesis that necessity
knows no law, that the most brutal war is
the most merciful because it ends more
quickly, and (thus) it is necessary to indict,
not the weapons, but rather war itself. There
can be not doubt that the atomic bomb marks
the climax of a development away from the

25

toward a new concept which accepts the
threat of total war, but outlaws aggressive
war as such, without depriving the defense
of available weapons. That is the end toward
which the moral conscience of the world must
work if mankind is to escape destruction.”

The New York Herald Tribune: “Whether
or not the bombs were the sole determining
cause of the peace, it is difficult to-see how
any other decision could have been taken
under the context of the time. So much for
the past. ~The future awaits us in which this
kind of grim calculation will confront other
statesmen. They will find themselves com-
pelled to balance the instantaneous destruc-
tion, not of 100,000 but (if General Kenney
is right) of millions of enemy lives against
potentially greater losses or sufferings to
their own side. Stimson refuses to ‘pretend
that war is anything else than what it is.’

Statesmen — perhaps our own confronting
others or others weighing us as the necessary
victims — will have to juggle these frightful
balances. And they will do so, unless the
new powers of destruction can be curbed now
once and far all. In all the diplomatic and
political maneuvering over atomic policy
that sometimes seems to be the last thing
anyone remembers.”

The Washington Post: “Perhaps the Stim-
son argument will not altogether remove
the feeling that the use of the bomb put upon
us the mark of Cain. But there can be no
question either of Stimson’s statesmanship
or his sincerity, or his unerring knowledge
of the Japanese mind... however, there are
one or two points that remain unclear. Aside
from the evidence that in offering the Jap-
anese a way out, we in effect conditioned
the surrender, we are not convinced’ tbat in
July 1945, there was. no sign of any
weakening of the Japanese determination to
fight.’... In this light, as well as with the
foreknowldge that we had the atom bomb

--- Page 29 ---
up our sleeve, we have never understood
why at the Yalta Conference of February,
1945, we made so many disastrous decisions,
including the one on the Kuriles.”

The Cleveland Plain Dealer: “All Amer-
icans hope such a choice may never again
rest on the shoulders of any man. The only
answer is to insure the absolute control of
atemic energy on a world scale. To that
and this country must stand firm in its plan
before the United Nations.”

Spadework for Treaties

A number of editorials in the US press
have taken cognizance of the “spadework
done-at London by the Deputy Foreign Min-
isters on the German and Austrian treaties
in preparation for the Moscow conference in
March.

The Norfolk (Va.) Ledger-Dispatch, said:
“For all the differences of viewpoint, there
is an encouraging atmosphere of give-and-
take about the opening sessions, More im-
portant, there is an air of patient willingness,
at least on the part of the western powers to
hear out views of the group of lesser powers
who warred against the Hitlerian colossus.
Most important, there is a broad area of
agreement among the great powers as to
the kind of peace that shall be imposed on
Germany,

“The pact with Austria will present few
difficulties; the pact with Germany, many.
France understandably has been the most
stubborn of the Big Four in her views on
the German settlement, insisting as she has
on a harsh peace with her ancient enemy.
Yet there are signs that France will defer
to Anglo-American and Russian contention
that there should be no amputation of the
Ruhr and Saar and that there must be some
semblance of a central German government.”

The Washington News: “In London...
the Russians have deadlocked the proceedings
by objecting to Canada’s demand to be heard
on procedural matters relating to the Ger-
man treaty. The Russian view is that partic-
ipation in the actual treaty making should
be limited to the Big Four: Russia, United

States, Britain and France. This position is
as arbitrary as it is unjust.

The Philadelphia Inquiror: What is being
dealt with at London is not the grievous
past but the perilous future in which all free
nations, large and small, are deeply con-
cerned.... Within reason the smaller na-
tions should be consulted in the making of
treaties that may, if properly drawn, promise
long peace and security for all nations.’

The great need for mutual accord on both
the political and economic phases of Ger-
many’s future, is stressed by many American
commentators.

On the economic problem, the Baltimore
Sun said in part: “As things stand today,
Germany is a drain not on the economy of
Europe alone. It is not only Britons who
have. to tighten their belts in order to feed
idle Germans, nor Frenchmen who have to
keep their factories closed because they can-
not get coal and iron from the Ruhr. The
Russians also begin to suspect that they have
too hurriedly sought to throttle the goose
which lays the golden egg. The situation is
made to order for the-presentation by our
own State Department of a realistic program
for the restoration of Middle and Western
Europe to something like self-support.”

On the political problem the Jackson
(Mich.) Daily News’ view is representative
of much comment: “It must be firmly estab-
lished (at the Moscow meeting) that expe-
diency must not permit the re-creation of the
‘German menace’ in any guise.”

Business at Postwar Peak

Commenting on the fact that business
volume in the United States reached a new
postwar peak early this month, the New York
Journal of Commerce said: “Business senti-
ment has shown considerable improvement
in recent weeks because the setback in busi-
ness activity as widely predicted for early
this year... clearly is not materializing at
this time.... Most significant factor behind
the improvement in sentiment is the contin-
ued high rate of cotton consumption.”

--- Page 30 ---
TRANSPORT (Continued from page 6):

German highway transport vehicles; the
Operations Section, dealing with methods
and: control .of highway transport opera-
tions; and the Highway Maintenance Sec-
tion, handling the maintenance and _con-
struction of roads and bridges.

The Road Branch is represented on the
Highways. and ‘Highway Transport Com-
mittee. of the Transport Directorate where
MG policy on a quadripartite basis is estab-
lished. Those matters having direct rela-
tion to US-British bizonal economic unity in
the highway transport field are considered
and decided on a bipartite basis. . Those
affairs affecting only the US Zone or which
have been left to the discretion of Zone Com-
manders as a result of quadripartite action
are handled. unilaterally.

DIRECTION BY LAND MG

An organization of German highway and
highway transport authorities has been
established within the.German government.
organization, both bizonally and within the
US Zone, to supervise and. control German
highway transport operations. Direct super-
vision and inspection of German authorities
is carried out through the Transportation
Offices of the MG Land Offices using infor-
mation furnished them by the Road Branch.

Certain responsibilities have been. delegat-
ed to the German authorities but at the same
time their activities are limited by the frame-
work. of established MG policy. It is the
purpose of the Road Branch to transfer
additional authority to the German agencies
as rapidly ag they are able to absorb the
new duties. As this is accomplished, MG
regulations are modified: or’ withdrawn
accordingly. For an indefinite period there
will -remain certain: affairs which. the Ger-
mans will not: be allowed to handle. These
include. the procurement of highway main-
tenance: and. automotive. supplies from: other
than German indigenous: sources; arrange-
ments for interzonal traffic, and contact with
the: US military forces.. At the present time,
responsibility must remain’ with Military

Pal

Government in connection with most inter-

zonal. matters,..but further development of

economic .unity and the establishment. of
central German agencies will permit transfer
of authority in this field. to the Germans.

The responsibility of the Movements
Branch is to advise the Director of the Di-
vision on movement priority policies. Ger-
man authorities at the bizonal-level set the
priorities of all German movements. The
Movements Branch does not interfere in their
work, but retains copies. of the German
movements program and prepares statistical ©
information on the percentage performance
of the various phases of this program.

Movements of particular interest’ to MG
authorities are. handled by the German
transport agencies in a priority. higher than
German items. High priority traffic in-
cludes material for the Military authorities,
international traffic, displaced persons
movements, and exporis for dollar credit.
The. Movements Branch collects. these
requirements through liaison with G-4 US-
FET, the European Central Inland Trans-
port Organization (ECITO), the OMGUS
Economics Division, and CRX.

WORK OF BRANCH OFFICES

In order to accomplish its objectives, the
Movements Branch maintains branch offices
in Berlin, Frankfurt, and Bielefeld. The
Berlin office is responsible for direct advice
to the Director of. Transport and for liaison
with the Economics Division of OMGUS and
Combined Repatriation Executive. The
Frankfurt office is responsible for liaison
with G-4 USFET, and the German Zonal
Movements Office for the US Zone; for prep-
aration of the tentative monthly movements
program based on requirements received; and
for representation at monthly meetings of
ECITO to cover international movements
requirements: The Bielefeld: office handles
liaison work with: the: German Executive
Committee for Transport and with the Brit-
ish at the bizonal level: to: clear the US
portion.of the monthly movements program.

--- Page 31 ---
PRISONERS OF WAR AND DISPLACED PERSONS (Continued trom page 14)

Austrian nationals) currently in the US Zone
will be returned to their countries of origin

without regard to their personal wishes. The-

PW & DP Division sets the overall policy
governing the repatriation of these people.
Under MG supervision, the German author-
ities register all enemy and ex-enemy
nationals and assemble them where they are
screened with the aid of repatriation officers
from their respective countries to determine
who is to be returned to his native land and
who is to be resetiled in Germany. It is
estimated that some 25,000 enemy and ex-
enemy nationals still live in the US Zone.

TRACING AGENCY ESTABLISHED

As a result of the war, thousands of
people from many nations became separated
from their families and friends while in
Germany. In many cases members of fami-
lies from the countries occupied by Germany
were forced to come to Germany to work.
Children and young men and women were
taken from their parents to be trained and
work in Germany. Many such persons are
still searching for their relatives and friends
and it is a primary objective of the Allied
Control Authority to see that these families
are reunited as quickly as possible. A Cen-
tral Tracing Policy Board was set up by
ACA, operating under the PW & DP Direc-
torate, which sets the overall policy to be
followed by all Allied tracing agencies in
Germany. Under this board the Central
Tracing Bureau, operated by UNRRA,
serves as a clearing house for requests
originating with United Nations or neutral
nationals which ‘are processed by the ‘four
Zonal Tracing Bureaus, each under the
jurisdiction of its respective Zone Com-
mander.

MISSING FOREIGNERS TRACED

The most important work of the Central
Tracing Bureau is the receiving, processing,
and distributing to the interested nations of
records and documents pertaining. to their
citizens missing in Germany. . These docu-

ments enable the various nations to solve
many legal problems resulting from the war.
The Records Processing Division of the CTB
has received documents concerning approxi-
mately 2,720,715 persons and has dispatched
to the various National Tracing Bureaus
documents concerning 910,604 persons.

The United States Zonal Tracing Bureau,
with headquarters at Wiesbaden, has pro-
cessed documents pertaining to the where-
abouts of 1,670,777 persons and forwarded
them to the interested national bureaus.
There are still many tons of documents which
have been located but not yet processed.
Some 14,500 tracing inquiries have been re-
ceived and of these 12,217 have been com-
pleted. Information has been received on
4,000 United Nations orphan children and
of this number 1,300 have already been re-
patriated.

CRX HANDLES MASS MOVES

The Combined Repatriation Executive, a
quadripartite executive agency operating
under the PW & DP Directorate, is respon-
sible for the arrangements for transportation
including clearance for all organized mass
movements of repatriates, expellees, and ref-
ugees through, into, and out of Germany
as well as movements between the four
zones. Any controlled movement of 10 or
more people requires authorization by CRX.

For its overall work, the Division main-
tains informal liaison with all the accredited
Military Missions as well as Repatriation
Missions for the United Nations. Informal
liaison also is maintained with representa-
tives of enemy. and ex-enemy ministries of
interior and foreign relations on matters
involving citizens of their respective coun-
tries. PW & DP Division also must negotiate
with the other occupying powers in order
that US soldiers killed in. the war and buried
in Germany may be removed to US ceme-'
teries in France and Belgium. Most of this
work is completed inasmuch as only some”
1,600 US military dead are yet to be located
in the Soviet Zone.