--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 87 / 7 APRIL 1947

VAN GOGH PAINTING

» 1941

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

LAUTERBACH,
OBER
LAHNKREIS

iT Ri
2) ERIEDBERS \ C@goincEN
Ss QBERTAUNUS
.

OFFENBACH

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBERBISCH
OFSHEIM

BRUCHSAY

HEILBRONN

BACKNANG

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

9

neil

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Transportation of Additional Dependents .

Supply Procedure for Household Furnishings for Dependents, Bachelor
Olficers and Civilians, US, Allied and Neutral 60006
Marriage to Germans

Clarification of Medical Attention ee Allied and Neutral Civilian
Personnel . c . S.0 0
Repatriation and Final Pay of Allied ‘and Neutral Civilian Employees.
Implementation of War Department Training Circular No. 9, 1946 .
Enlistment and Reenlistment in the Regular Army

Establishment of Headquarters, US Ground and Service Forces, Europe
Disposition of Internees of German Nationality Held in US Civilian
In‘ernment Enclosures S000

Status of Enlisted Men on Terminal Leave .

Officer Promotions.

Savings and Insurance Program .

Plan for Reorganization of US Forces in the European Theater
Collection for Charge Sales to Army Exchange Service .
Appearance of Civilian Counsel Before Courts-Martial

Area Responsibility of Criminal Investigation Detachments

Advance Amendment to Title 13, “Trade and Commerce”, Military

Government Regulations 500

Civil Schooling for Regular Army Officers 5

Transter-Audit-Office .

Graduate Training of AAF Officers in Civilian Educational Institutions
Establishment of European Command Audit Agency .

40-Hour Workweek for OMGUS Civilian US and Allied Neutral

Employees
Standards Applied § to Personnel In German Information Services .

AG 230 GAP-AGO
3 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 414 RMJ-AGO
4 Mar 1947, USFET
Circular No. 16

5 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 230 GAP-AGE

5 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 230 GAP-AGE

5 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 353 GCT-AGO
7 Mar 1947, USFET
Circular No. 17

8 Mar 1947, USFET
Gen Orders No. 49
10 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 383.7 GEC-AGO
11 Mar 1947. USFET
AG 210.4 GAP-AGO-B
11 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 210.2 GAP-AGP-B
11 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 019 FDD-AGO
11 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 322 GCT-AGO
14 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 331.3 RMJ-AGO
14 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 250.4 GAP-AGO
14 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 322 PMG-AGO
17 Mar 1947, EUCOM

AG 010.6 (CG)
19 Mar 1947, OMGUS

AG 000.8 (PO)

20 Mar 1947, OMGUS
Gen Orders No. 23
20 Mar 1947, OMGUS
AG 000.8 (PO)

20 Mar 1947, OMGUS
Gen Orders No. 9

22 Mar 1947, EUCOM
AG 230.44 (CO)

22 Mar 1947, OMGUS

AG 000.1 (IC)
22 Mar 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps. Photo

VAN GOGH PAINTING — The picture on

"Le: Fils Roulin” by. Vincent Van Gogh being
prepared for display at the Munich: Export
Show. immediately atter the showing in Munich,

returned to the Paris’ Museum,

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

: “German Books ard Magazines” was prepar-
‘ed by Dr. Douglas Waples, Chief of the Publi-
‘cations Control Branch, Information Control

Publications industry in the US Zone of

Fepresentatives of the Information Control
Division with: German civilian leaders in 188
Sommunities throughout the US Zone are con-
jained in the article “What German Leaders
Think." These influential German citizens were
MbEstioned on the future of Germany, their
° of the success and probable length of

‘Upation, and. other subjects similarly of
‘Televance and interest to. occupation authorities
Indications of present trends of German

is week's cover shows the famous painting

is painting and ofhers in the display are fo Z

Division, OMGUS. The article deals with the
‘Problems encountered and, progress made in:

The results of a series of interviews conducted

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

German Books and Magazines
More Housing Planned in Ruhr
Hoover Industry Program

What German Leaders Think
German Camp Situation Clarified

Reactions ts Zone Press Noted
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
STATION LIST

PAGE

12
19
31

14
21
24
32

--- Page 7 ---
Cyerman (iors
“and |] (agazines

fter years of isolation; the German

people need fresh ideas and a broader
outlook. Increasing the circulation of new
thoughts from other lands and eliminating
those of Nazism are the goals of MG’s Publi-
cations Control Branch which today is re-
orienting the German publishing industry-|

Earlier, all publishers were classified into
three categories — white, grey, and black —
according to their Nazi records. Only publish-
ers who are “white” are now licensed to
produce reading material for the German
public. There are 298 of them now in the
US Zone. New licenses will be issued only
to applicants who are better qualified than
any already licensed to:produce high-priority
publications.

Each Land Information Control Division
has a German staff which studies current
publications and publishers’ proposals for
new works and new editions. They also
advise Military Government on the best edu-
cational use of the available paper. This
service is expected to grow in importance as
the new Land constitutions go into effect
guaranteeing freedom of expression for all
persons except specified Nazis.

Greatest obstacle to educationally-effective
publishing today is the acute shortage of
paper. Despite vigorous efforts to increase
the supply, book and magazine paper pro-
duction continues at about 20 percent of
the minimum re-orientational requirements.
Funds were made available recently to sup-
plement German output by means of im-
ports, but action has been hampered by bad

weather and by world shortages of cellulose,
coal, and transport,

To relieve the situation somewhat pre-
occupation Nazi literature was confiscated
under an Alliéd Control Council order and is
being pulped into new paper which becomes
available to publishers now producing un-
biased reading matter. Private donations of
paper from religious and trade union organi-
zations outside Germany also have helped to
keep the presses rolling. In addition, Publi-
cations Control Branch has a special program
to ease the shortage. It is trying to restrict
allocations to high-priority projects; increase
the production of paper to be used in the
publishing industry; obtain more private do-
nations outside Germany from churches, edu-
cators, foundations, and trade associations;
and buy paper in the world market through
the Joint Export-Import Agency (US/UK).

In spite of obstacles the German publishing
industry begins to show new life, especially
among the publishing trade associations. Dur-
ing the past few months, publishers’ represent-
atives met in Frankfurt and presented useful
recommendations to Military Government. A
four-zone convention met at Bielefeld, 8 Feb-
ruary, and another at Leipzig, 6 March.
Each meeting framed proposals for self-regu-
lation within the trade; for revival of the
traditional educational, statistical, and biblio-
graphic services of the former all-German
publishers’ trade association (Boersenverein
der deutschen Buchhaendler); and for prop-
erly regulated interzonal business. Two
reference libraries are being set up by the

s

--- Page 8 ---
The Deputy Director of
Information Control for
OMG Bavaria discusses
the publishing industry's
problems with the Ober-
buergermeister of Bam-

berg.
= Signal Corps Photo

trade: the Deutsche Buecherei in Leipzig,
traditional depository of all books published
in Germany; and the Deutsche Bibliothek in
Frankfurt. Each of these libraries receives
specimens of all material published in Ger-
many and conducts statistical and biblio-
graphic work.

Cooperation between the zones continues to
progress in other ways. Free trade in publi-
cations, especially in the three western zones,
is expanding rapidly. To increase the cir-
culation of German publications in other
paris of the world, German dealers are filing
export applications with the Joint Export-
Import Agency (US/UK). These publications
will be sent chiefly to the United States and
Britain and will be largely scientific journals.
Such a project should increase the interest
of professional groups abroad in the more
important German publications, and should
strengthen the position of the industry in
Germany. Commercial imports into Ger-

many, on the other hand, are expected to
remain negligible for some time due to the
higher priority of food and medical supplies.

However, some 716,500 German-language
copies (23 titles) of Overseas Editions — low
cost, paper-backed books printed for the
OWI program during the war — have been
sold to the German public, as well as 47,500
(some 22 titles) in English. Approximately
62,919 copies (91 titles) of other books in
original English editions have been sold. In
the translation field, rights to 76 American
books have been sold to German publishers.
Eight of them already have been printed
with subjects ranging from Brogan’s “Amer-
ican Character” to Forbes’ “Mama’s Bank
Account.” Probably 13 more will be sold
during the next few months with titles in-
cluding Copland’s “Our New Music,” Bink-
ley’s “American Political Parties,” and Sand-
burg’s “Abe Lincoln Grows Up.”

As for US periodicals licensed for import

--- Page 9 ---
into Germany, MG has given its approval to
the NY Times Overseas Edition, NY Herald
Tribune Paris Edition, Time, Life, and News-
week, The three MG magazines for Germans
continue to enjoy high popularity, according
toareadership study made by the Intelligence
Sranch of ICD. Circulation of Heute remains
xt 400,000. Paper shortage has forced
reduction of the circulation of Neue Aus-
lese from 260,000 to 250,000 and of Ameri-
‘sanische Rundschau from 200,000 to 150,000.
Neue Auslese has been improved by a more
careful choice of material, with a first selec-
tion made in New York from US periodicals
and a second made in London. The staffs of
these magazines also are raising their av-
dience appeal by keeping close watch upon

The composing room (right) and the binding room
{below) at the Schelling Strasse printing plant in
Munich; here “Heute”, the MG-sponsored German
counterpart of “Life” magazine, is published. {ts cir-
culation is 400,000, limited fo this number by a

shortage of paper. Photos by Neue Zeltung

reader reaction to material used.

The Germans have yet another. source for
articles previously published in the United
States, The Periodicals Servicing Unit, in
direct correspondence with Reorientation
Branch, Washington, has been established in
Publications Control Branch, ICD, for Bava-
ria- This unit furnishes articles from US
magazines to German editors throughout the
US Zone; studies the requirements of these
editors; and informs Washington of needed
reorientation material, Individuals in the
United States and Great Britain also are help-
ing to relieve the scarcity of reading mate-
in Germany by sending gift copies of
non-commercial printed matter to individuals
and agencies via common carrier or mail.

As of 20 March, US Zone licensees have
produced 2539 books and pamphlets, and 263
periodicals. The vast majority are of little -
re-orientation value, but they are about all
that officials expect in a badly crippled
country which is just emerging from a severe

rial

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 10 ---
More Housing Planned in Ruhr

Full Scale Program being Drafted to Care for 100,000 additional
Miners Required to Increase Production of Coal to 1948 Goal

Ithough the present housing accommo-

dations available in the Ruhr coal mining
regions are enough to take care of the im-
mediate labor force being recruited from the
combined British and US Zones, M. S. Szym-
czak, Director of the Economics Division,
OMGUS, and R. L. Henry, Chief of the
Building Materials and Construction Section,
announced a full scale program is being
jointly prepared to provide additional hous-
ing for Ruhr miners.

Following completion of a trip to the Ruhr
where they consulied with coal mining offi-
cials on progress of the recruiting campaign
and made a special study of housing con-
ditions,‘ Mr. Szymczak and Mr. Henry esti-
mated that 100,000 additional workers will
be required, 40,000 of whom should be sup-
plied by September, if production of hard
coal in the Ruhr is to reach its target of
300,000 tons daily by the end of 1947. The
goal for 1948 is 400,000 tons per day.

At the present time the mines can absorb
3,500 men @ week. This figure includes “up-
wards of 1,000” to replace “wastage” — that
is, losses due to retirement, sickness, death
and existing turnover cf labor. Land North
Rhine/Westphalia cannot provide more than
half of the required manpower from the
existing population. ,

They further stated that, in spite of the
devastation and already congested conditions,
1,700 imported workers, if they can be ob-
tained, need to be housed every week at
present and eventually 50,000 newcomers
will have to be permanently accommodated.
Their statement continued:

“There is still a small and narrowing
margin of accommodation in miners’ camps
amounting at the moment to 2,000 billets.
Two to three hundred beds are vacated
weekly through wastage, providing a further
small but regular margin, German authorities
are requiring householders wherever pos-

sible to accept miners as lodgers, which is
yielding another 200 or so billets a week.

“The total of accommodation will take care
of the labor promised up to the end of April
by other Laender,: including the American
Zone, i. e., Hesse 500, Berlin 400, Hannover
500, Schleswig-Holstein 150, Hamburg/Bre-
men 100.

“When, as must occur, .the contributions
from these sources increase progressively,
the Ruhr accommodation problem will be-
come correspondingly more acute, with two
aspects. The first is the rapid provision of
additional temporary billets. Upward of
5,000 billets can still be made available in
camps if beds, bedding, and furniture can be
supplied. Similarly, the housing authorities
can find very many more billets in private
houses provided bedding, and lockers can be
issued to householders.

“An immediate necessity is to obtain dur-
ing the next two or three (months about
20,000 beds, mattresses, pillows, and lockers,
40,000 blankets and sheets and a large supply
of tables and chairs for the camps.

“There is now a definite prospect of 6,000
beds, bedding lockers, and proportionate
camp tables and chairs:coming from Land
resources by mid-May and even perhaps
another 4,000 for private houses. If another
10,000 sets can be guaranteed from outside
the Land it should be possible to accom-
modate all the imported labor likely to be
offered up to the end of July.

“The second aspect is the long term one.
Stability in the coal mining labor field can-
not be expected until permanent housing and
living amenities are manifestly on the way.
Under Ordinance 57 responsibility lies with
the German Ministry of Reconstruction which
has at its service the Ruhr Regional. Plan-
ning Authority, which has already prepared
detailed proposals for the permanent recon-
struction of the mining community.” ,

--- Page 11 ---
TIndustry

Prograin

Former President Merbert Hoover, who
recently completed an economic fact- vieg
survey tour in Germany, made his third
report to President Truman, outlining his
production proposal for Germany to prevent
continued excessive occupation costs and to
aid the recovery of Europe’s economy. His
report, carried herewith in full for the
information of US occupation personnel, does
not necessarily represent the established
policy of the US Government and the US
Military Government for Germany.

Fermer President Hoover is greeted by the Theater Commander
upon arrival at the Rhine- Main airfield, first stop on his

fact-finding ‘four as

representative of President Truman.

Jo into the economic policies in Ger-

[ex which would relieve financial support
from the United States was one of the sub-
jects assigned to my mission to that country.
Aside from a mass of information and
statistical material-secured on this journey,
I have been familiar with German economic
problems over many years, including my
experience before and after World War I.
In view of the gravity of the crisis which
confronts the world, it would be an ill serv-
ice if I did not state my conclusions fully

Signal Corps Pheto

--- Page 12 ---
and frankly.

These conclusions are not the product of
sentiment nor of feeling toward a nation
which has brought such misery upon the
whole earth. They are not given in condone-
ment of the enormity of her crimes. They
are the result of a desire to see the world
look forward, get into production and
establish a lasting peace. They are based
upon the stern necessities of a’ world involv-
ed in the most dangerous economic crisis in
all history. ,

At the present time the taxpayers of the
United States and Great Britain are con-
tributing nearly 600,000,000 dollars a year
to prevent starvation of the Germans in the
American and British Zones alone. The drain
is likely to be even greater after peace unless
the policies now in action are changed.
Therefore, entirely aside from any humanita-
rian and political aspects, policies which will
restore productivity in Germany and exports
with which to buy their food and relieve
this drain upon us are of primary im-
portance.

But our economic interest is far wider than
this. We desperately need recovery in all of
Europe. We need it not only for economic
reasons but as the first necessity to peace.
The United States, through loans, lend-lease,

surplus supplies, and relief, in the last two
years, has spent, or pledged itself to spend,
over 15,000,000,000 dollars in support of
civilians in foreign countries. Even we do
not have the resources for, not can our tax-
payers bear, a continuation of burdens at
such a rate.

There is only one path to recovery in
Europe. That is production. The whole
economy of Europe is interlinked with Ger-
man economy through the exchange of raw
materials and manufactured goods. The
productivity of Europe cannot be restored
without the restoration of Germany as a
contributor to that productivity.

Some assumptions.

In order to offer constructive con-
clusions as to economic policies which will
relieve the American taxpayer and will pro-
mote economic recovery in Europe, I make
six assumptions, which I believe will be ac-
cepted by sensible people. They necessarily
include certain political aspects which
underlie all these economic problems.

1. I assume that we wish to establish a
united federal state in Germany, embracing
mainly the present American, British, Rus-
sian, and French military occupation zones,
with economic unity and free trade between

Under fhe “level of industry” plan emphasis is fo be placed on the export of
light industry products, such as those processed in this US Zone machine shop.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 13 ---
the States.: L shall refer to this area as the
“New Germany.”

2. T assume that our objective must be tv

clear German life of the Nazi conspirators
and to punish those who have contributed to
this conspiracy, which murdered millions of
people in cold blood and brought this ap-
palling disaster upon the world.

3. I assume that we will not make the
major mistake of Versailles, but will com-
plete absolute disarmament of the Germans
so that they shall not be able again to engage
in aggressions; that this disarmament will
embrace destruction of all military arms,
fortifications, and direct arms factories, with
certain control of industry; that the Germans
will have no army, no navy, and no air
forces, retaining only a constabulary in
which no Nazi or previous Army officer may
be employed; that this disarmament must be
continued for a generation or two, until
Germany has lost the “know-how” of war
and the descent of militarism through birth.

4, I assume that these requirements must
be ‘saféguarded by international guarantees
and effective police service by the nations.

5. I assume, in our own interest and that
of Europe, that we wish to restore the pro-
ductivity of the continent, that we wish to
revive personal freedom, honest elections,
and generally to reconstruct the German
people into a peace-loving nation cooperating
in the recovery of Western Civilization.

6. I assume that the United States will
not join in such guarantees and policing
unless the treaty with Germany is so con-
cluded that it contributes to the restoration
of productivity and lasting peace in Europe
and promptly relieves us of drains upon our
taxpayers.

The German Economic Problem.

The German economic problems have two
aspects:

1. The long-view, broad economic policies
toward the new Germany which alone can
produce the reconstruction of Europe and
peace.

10

2. Uur immediate problems in the joint
Anglo-American military zones during the
interregnum pending peace.

I therefore divide
these 2 parts.

this discussion’ into

Part I: The long-view economic problem.

The long-view economic problems involved
in the peace with the new Germany and its
aftermaths are greatly affected by war de-
struction, the boundary settlements for the
new Germany, the plant removals for repara-
tions, and the policies with respect to “war
potential” of industry.

These effects may be summarized:

1.. There was considerable destruction of
non-war industry from the air and other-
wise during the war. The loss to peaceful
productivity has not been determined, but it
is considerable.

2. The proposed annexations to Poland
and Russia, and the possible annexation of
the Saar basin by France, will take from
Germany, as compared to 1936, about 25
percent of her food supply, about 30 per-
cent of her bituminous coal and about. 20
percent of her manufacturing capacity.

3. The population of Germany in 1936
was about 68,000,000. The population of
the new Germany by 1949 will be about
71,000,000 due to the expulsion ‘of Germans
from the Polish and Russian annexations,
from Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Austria,
Yugoslavia, Roumania and the return of
prisoners into this area.

4. The Allied economic policies toward
Germany are — I have adopted 1936 as a
basis for economic comparisons because it
was a full year before German industry was
distorted by her annexations and her most
intensive armament activity — of two
categoriés: The first involves world safety,

‘Continued on page 26)

A potter molds clay into vases in a small Bavarian
pottery factory. Hand-made products such as these
are fo play a large part in the projected bizonal
export program to make Germany economically
self-sufficient. Photo by Byers

--- Page 14 ---


--- Page 15 ---
What-

German

he German people are described by their

leaders in the US Zone as generally ap-
proving of the Allied occupation and wishing
for the establishment of economic unification
throughout the four zones. This was dis-
closed in a recent survey made by the In-
formation Control Division, OMGUS.

From the replies given by 188 leaders of
towns and villages throughout the Zone, In-
Control officials concluded the
report of the survey with the statement:

“The leaders feel that few Germans desired
world dictatorship in 1938 — and these few
were those who would profit through position
or material gain from such a rule. They
agree, in the main, that the United States
should and will stay in Germany another
10 years, and insist that the economic uni-
fication of the four zones of occupation is
basically important. Many of them have
been impressed by the Nuremberg Trials and
by Secretary Byrnes’ speech as being impor-
tant milestones of the past year. But the
Trials have not done too much toward estab-
lishing truly international law because the
rule of law applied to Germany alone.”

German leaders from 180 towns and vil-
lages of the US Zone were questioned on
international problems concerning Germany.
They were people whose interest and activity
in community affairs marked them as leaders
in their respective communities. All excepi
three of the 188 leaders interviewed were
men, Half of

formation

averaging 50 years of age.

Leaders

Think

them were Catholic. Educational backgrounds
of the leaders were diverse: 41 percent had
had some college training, but 29 percent —
a large minority — had had seven years of
schooling or less.

More than half of the leaders were em-
ployers; less than one-third were: govern-
mental officials; and one-eighth were farmers.
Forty-five percent belonged to political par-
ties, and of these, 55 percent showed a pref-
erence for the rightist parties of the zone.
One-fifth said they were not interested in
political parties or politics because “nothing
is being done.” This disillusioned minority
generally was better educated and more pro-
fessionally trained than the group asa whole,
indicating that there are capable, leading
men among the population who are failing to
inspire among the people of their communi-
ties respect for and confidence in political
activities in Germany today.

Interviewers put the following question to
the leaders: It is often charged that a large
part of the German people wanted Germany
to be given a chance to rule the world. How
many Germans do you believe really wanted
this, say in 1938?” Seventy-five percent of
the leaders, revealing a desire to defend the
German people in general from such a
charge, claimed that less than one-fourth of
the Germans ever wanted such a thing, and
50 percent felt that only one-tenth had any
such intentions.

About 49 percent of the group cited such

--- Page 16 ---
specific sections of the population as militar-
ists and capitalists as the only ones who
want to rule the world, while 20 percent
justified such a wish on the grounds that
people were misled by their leaders and did
not realize the implications of their actions.
A few excused the wish by alleging reasons
such as Lebensraum in support of such an
“honest” desire. Sixty-six percent of the
leaders believed that the few people wha
wanted to rule the world had learned a
lesson from the war and would not support
another German drive for power, should the
occasion arise. However, almost one-third
felt that these would-be rulers would iry
again.

The community leaders next were asked to
recall the two most important events that had
occurred since the end of the war, either in
or outside of Germany, which the outcome of
the war has instilled in their memories. Four
out of every 10 named the Nuremberg Trials.
Thirty percent mentioned Secretary Byrnes’
Stuttgart speech. Other events most fre-
quently cited were the treatment of evacuees.
tests of the atomic bomb, Paris Peace Confer-
ence, collapse of Germany, the first free
elections in Germany, and Churchill’s defeat
in the English elections.

Another question involved an estimate of
how much longer the leaders expected the
Americans to occupy Germany. Three-fourths
thought there would be at least 10 more
years of occupation. and one-fourth anticipat-

_ political unity of these zones?”

13

ed a period of 20 years. Those who wel-
comed the Americans looked most frequently

for their help in “combatting Communism,”
or “keeping peace and. order,” or “watching
political developments,” or “preventing war
and insuring peace.’ A few Americans were
needed to teach democracy and re-educate
youth. Those who did not want the Ameri-
cans to stay as long as anticipated felt that
Germany could control herself soon, that the
costs of the occupation were too great, and

that responsibility could be turned over to

the Germans now to achieve economic unity.
General comments indicated that the presence
of the Americans desired the
world situation is clarified.”

was “until

Revealing a high degree of concern over
the matter, practically all of the Germans
expressed an opinion of the next question:
“Today a primary problem of the Germans
is the unification of the separate zones of
Germany. In your opinion. which is it more
important to achieve first — the economic o1
Seventy-
seven percent considered economic unification
more important than political unification.
whereas 10 percent thought the two insepa-
rable. Ten percent favored political unity.

Finally, ithe community leaders were asked
what steps they felt would be necessary
today and in the future to implement a policy
of lasting peace. Large majorities felt able
to propose steps for both periods. Fifty-five
percent of the proposals suggested for imme-

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 17 ---
first post-
war luxury automobile, the Opel “Kapitaen,”
First Post-War German recently rolled off ihe assembly line of the

General Motors’ Opel plant at Ruesselsheim.
Luxury Auto Completed In the picture above, the plant manager is

discussing the merits of the six cylinder
four-door sedan with OMG Hesse officials.

--- Page 18 ---
Re-education and Economy

The democratic re-education of Germany
“must go hand-in-hand” with a healthy
economy, said Dwight P. Griswold, Director
of the Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS, recently in discussing the
affairs ‘of the Education Branch of the
Division. His. statement in connection with
this relationship follows:

At the present time there are some peoplé
of the opinion that no further steps should
be taken to rebuild the German economy until
definite proof can be given that the German
nation has been re-educated: to democratic
ways. However, it would seem that these
people are overlooking a very important
fact: that democratic re-education and a
healthy economy must go hand in hand.

A revived German economy is essential to
the re-education of Germany for two reasons.
First, the material factors of education —
teachers, textbooks, paper, the building and
repair of schoolhouses — all demand an
economy which can support them much more
adequately than is now the case. Second,
and just as important, a healthy economy
produces a state of mind among the people
which makes them much more willing to
accept a democratic way of life. An imposed
system of economy which does not permit
the German people to maintain a standard
of living equal to that invisioned in the
Potsdam Agreement will make impossible
the task of German re-education.

The re-education of Germany must be suc-
cessful if she is ever again to become a
member of the peace-loving nations. How-
ever, without a strong economy to support
our education program, that program will in
all likelihood fail, and Germany will once
again fall into the ways of totalitarianism.

Camp Goods to Youth Groups

The Bipartite Economic Panel has ap-
proved the request of US Military Govern-
ment for the transfer to German youth groups
of 1,500,000 dollars worth of US Army
surplus camping equipment, to be charged

15

against the German economy. Tents, cots,
blankets, sterilizing equipment, axes, sleep-
ing bags, and kerosene lanterns will be dis-
tributed by Land Youth Committees on a
loan basis to camping groups in such a way
that they may be used by the greatest pos-
sible number of German youth during the
coming camping season.

Conferences of MG, Army, and German
youth leaders in each of the Laender in April
and a Zone-wide conference in May will
make final plans for the summer youth pro-
gram, with emphasis on camping and as-
sociated recreational projects.

More than 300,000 German youth are ex-
pected to take part in the program this year.
The YMCA plans to handle arrangements
for about 80,000 of these, and other groups
such as youth hostels will also aid in making
the camping program successful. The Army
will furnish transportation and all possible
cooperation and aid; but it is stressed that
in all phases of the program the initiative
must come from the Germans themselves.

Trustees for Farben Units

The break-up of the I. G. Farbenindustrie
A. G. into independent and self-sustaining
units in the US Zone was inaugurated last
month with the appointment of German
trustees for four former Farben units in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, nine in Hesse, and
seven in Bavaria. Altogether, 51 former
Farben units in the US Zone are to become
separate companies.

The trustees were nominated by the Ger-
man ministries and approved by MG author-
ities. The trusteeships are a temporary
measure, pending final disposal of the units
to separate corporations which are to be or-
ganized by the trustees. Previously title to
the units had been vested with the four oc-
cupying powers.

“I. G. Farben, six months from now, will
only be a bad memory,” said Richardson
Bronson, Deputy Control Officer for I. G.
Farben, Economic Division,, OMGUS, in
presenting the appointment to one trustee at
a ceremony in Stuttgart.

--- Page 19 ---
Expellees Take Up Trades

The effort of MG and German labor of-
ficials to place in gainful employment the
expellees who have settled in the US Zone
of Germany has resulted in the revival of
the glass industry. In northern Bavaria and
southern Wuerttemberg-Baden more than
10,000 expellees, many of whom learned the
trade in Sudetenland’s glass works, are
employed making blown glassware and trin-
kets in some 230 private and cooperative
shops.

It is expected that in the near future about
30,000 persons will be working in the in-
dustry.

Nearly two million expellees — largely
from Poland, Czechoslovakia, Austria, and
Hungary — have been resettled in the US
Zone, and the problem of finding gainful
employment for them has been a difficult
one. The main reason for this is the housing
problem: large groups of expellees are at
present settled in somewhat limited areas,
and the redistribution of these people to
places where gainful employment is avail-
able is frequently held up by lack of hous-
ing facilities in such areas.

One phase of the program designed to
gainfully employ a maximum number of ex-
pellees is the resettlement of a large number
of them on some 60,000 hectares of land in
northwest Bavaria formerly used as artillery
ranges and demolition areas. Persons estab-
lishing residence in these areas will be given
every possible aid to convert the land into
productive agricultural areas,

FIAT to Terminate 30 June

Activities of FIAT (Field Intelligence
Agency Technical) and BIOS (British In-
telligence Observation Subcommittee) will
be terminated by 30 June 1947 according to
an agreement by the Deputy Military Gov-
ernors of the British, French, and US Zones.
A statement on termination of these activities
was issued by the Bipartite Secretariat as
follows:

Allied technical investigations into in-
dustry under BIOS and FIAT auspices have
been continuing since June 1945. It has
been open to all Allies to participate in these
investigations and many Allied governments
have sent in teams of investigators who have
profited from facilities offered them by Zone
authorities.

Results of these investigations are, sub-
ject to security considerations, public and
available to all.

British and US and French authorities
having regard to the current German eco-
nomic situation in the Western Zones and to
increasing difficulties of providing accom-
modation, etc., have decided to bring all tech-
nical investigations in the field under BIOS
and FIAT auspices to a close. After 15 May
1947, no industrial technical investigators of
the above organizations will be permitted to
enter British and US and French Zones of
Germany and all the industrial technical in-
vestigations will be terminated by 30 June
1947. This announcement does not modify
or rescind Article 12 of additional Terms of
Surrender issued as Proclamation Number 2
of the Control Council.

Auto Resale Halted

Military Government announced that ef-
fective 31 March and until further notice it
is unlawful for any person in the US Zone
of Germany or US Sector of Berlin to pur-
chase, sell, pledge, transfer, barter, or other-
wise dispose of any used motor vehicles,
even if done pursuant to an existing agree-
ment.

It was pointed out that any violator will
be liable to prosecution in Military Govern-
ment Court.

Military Government defines the term
“any person” to include Germans, Nationals
of the United Nations, including members
of the United Nations Armed Forces and
their dependents and all persons serving with
such forces, and any other person natural or
juristic except persons subject to US Army
court martial jurisdiction.

--- Page 20 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The first group from among approximate-
ly 10,000 displaced persons volunteering
for work in Belgium are being processed
Yor movement and resettlement in that coun-
try. The IGCR plan for resettlement has
been approved by the Belgian Government.

Approval has been given in Land Hesse
for the use of insignia or badges by Boy
Scouts (Pfadfinder), Falcons (Falken), and
Free German Youth (Freie Deutsche Ju-
gend). Other groups with approved badges
include Catholic Youth, Evangelical Youth,
and Young Men’s Christian Association.

Abolition of quasi-militaristic titles in the
theater and music fields, such as general
music director (Generalmusikdirektor) and
intendant general (Generalintendant) has
received quadripartite agreement.

Land finance officers are being given au-
thority under certain conditions to approve
applications for special licenses to withdraw
sums up to RM 1,000 from accounts blocked
pursuant to MG Law No. 52. |

LOOTED ARTICLES IDENTIFIED

Approximately 140 important articles
looted from the Army Museum in Paris and
from Fontainebleau have been identified at
the Wiesbaden Central Collecting Point.

During the first half of March, a total
of 71,700 metric tons of food were import-
ed from the United States for distribution
among the German consumers in the combin-
ed US-British Zones.

Four new border police posts have been
established in the area of Obersuhl on the
eastern frontier of Hesse to combat heavy
smuggling traffic in that area.

The number of cases tried in MG courts
in the first two months of this year was
16.2 percent less than in the same period
of 1946 and nine percent less than in No-
vember-December 1946.

A draft constitution is scheduled to be
submitted to a referendum in Land Bremen
during the summer. With the cancelling of
the election for a constitutional assembly

17

in the Land, permission was given by Mil-
itary Government for the interim Landtag
and Constitutional Committee to prepare
the constitutional draft.

One fresh egg per person was provided
for displaced persons in camps in the US
Zone for the Passover and Easter holidays.
These supplies came from indigenous econ-
omy to be replaced by dehydrated eggs from
DP food stocks.

MOSCOW CONFERENCE TO GET FILM

A special film depicting destroyed Ger-
man war plants and other plants being dis-
mantled for reparations has been edited and
recorded for shipment to the Moscow Con-
ference for presentation by US Zone officials.

Historical and political studies predomi-
nated among the more important books re-
cently in the Zone. The subjects included
a history of the western civilization, cur-
rent German politics, speeches by Justice
Jackson, and atomic matters.

Opening of the climical branch of the
Medical Faculty at Wuerzburg University
in Bavaria has been provisionally approved.
Classes are to begin about 1 May.

Enrollment at the Kirchliche Hochschule
in the US Berlin Sector, theological semi-
nary established by the Confessional Church
in 1935 and later suppressed by the Nazis,
has increased from 130 during the winter
semester to 220 for the spring-summer term.

RELIEF ROLLS INCREASE

Relief assistance increased during Feb-
ruary. As compared to January, the number
of persons receiving relief increased three
percent to 1,287,851 and expenditures six
percent to RM 36,489,797.

Two wool processing contracts have been
completed by US/UK economics authorities
at Minden. One is for 5,000. metric tons
of wool from the United Kingdom to be
combed by German firms in the combined
zones, and the other for 200 metric tons of
wool tops to be imported from US and UK.

--- Page 21 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instructions
are printed for the benefit of our readers.
Official copies of the quoted circulars, let-
ters, and directives may be obtained by writ-
ing to the originating headquarters.

Two ACA Laws Promulgated

Two laws, signed by the ACA Control
Council, were promulgated on 25 March.
Law No. 49 deals with the “repeal of the
Reich Law of 14 July 1933 concerning the
constitiution of the German Evangelical
Church.” Law No. 50 provides for the
“punishment for the theft and unlawful use
of rationed foodstuffs, goods, and rationing
documents.”

Law No. 47, “Termination of German
Insurance Operations Abroad,” became ef-
fective 10 March. This law provides that
German insurance and reinsurance compa-
nies of all types shall confine their activi-
ties exclusively to German territory. All pol-
icies may remain in force so long as the
risk remains German, but not longer than
three months from the date when the in-
sured risk left Germany provided that the
payment of premiums or any other payment
under these policies has been made only
in Germany and in German currency.

Wearing of Unit Insignia

The wearing of certain insignia patches
such as the parachutist or glider emblems
on the garrison cap is not authorized for
personnel who are non-members of organiza-
tions for which such emblems were pres-
cribed, according to USFET letter AG 420
GAP-AGO, “Military Uniform Regulations,”
4 March. The War Department indicated
that these emblems are not being considered
as special parachutist or glider insignia for
incorporation in future directives. The
wearing of parachutist or glider badges is
prescribed in AR 600-70.

The wearing of the shoulder sleeve in-
signia of a unit to which a person was as-

18

signed while overseas, as prescribed in AR
600-40, as amended by Circular 345, War
Depariment, 1946, is not being followed
accurately. The above directives definitely
state that the unit must have been an over-
seas unit, and to be eligible to wear the
shoulder sleeve insignia of such a unit, a
person must have been assigned overseas
to the unit between the dates 7 December
1941 and 2 September 1945. Examples of
violations noted are the wearing of training
school patches and patches of air forces
stationed in the United States.

Circular 10, containing detailed theater
uniform regulations, is available at Head-
quarters, European Command, APO 757.

Ordinance No. 12

All persons in the US Zone except speci-
fied occupation personnel are prohibited by
MG Ordinance No. 12 from acquiring, dis-
posing of, or having in their possession any
sterling vouchers, known as British Armed
Forces’ Special Vouchers (BAFSV).

The ordinance does not apply to members
of the Armed Forces of the Occupying
Powers or civilians in the employ of one of
those powers who are required to handle
and be in possession of these vouchers in the
course of his official duties, or any other
person who has been authorized by US or
British Military Government to acquire,
dispose of, or have such vouchers.

Transfer of Border Control

Full responsibility for border control has
been turned over to responsible German
authorities as instructed in an OMGUS cable
to the Laender. The German Land author-
ities have issued adequate operational in-
structions to border police, and such police
are making inspections of all traffic to and
from the US Zone and otherwise enforcing
MG Law 161 and MG directives on border
control. Should any laxity be encountered,
the German Land Government will be re-
quired to take immediate corrective action.

--- Page 22 ---
German Camp Situation Clarified

Conditions at Civilian Internment Enclosure at Darmstadt
Are Described by Hesse OMG Director in Detailed Statement

Dr. James R. Newman, Director of the Of-
fice of Military Government of Hesse, issued
at Wiesbaden the following statement con-
cerning comments by Dr. Eugen Kogon, Ger-
man civilian of Frankfurt, about the civilian
internment enclosure at Darmstadt. Dr.
Kogon, who had been confined in concentra-
tion camps for several years during the Nazi
regime, is author of the current German
best-seller, “Der SS Staat.”

This enclosure has been inspected by me
upon several occasions and the only reason
for such inspections was to ascertain the
true condition prevailing therein and to as-
sure myself that the German administration
of the camp was doing everything within its
power to place operations upon a humane
plane and that the duties imposed by law be
fully performed. In addition, I have, for
some time, had an officer of my staff on
permanent duty in that enclosure to aid the
German administration and to supervise its
operation.

Dr. Kogon commented upon the fact that
food, while sufficient, is unappetizing and
monotonous. This is probably true. However,
the fact that food is sufficient in quantity
despite present German food shortages
speaks pretty well for the camp administra-
tion and government authorities. My own
observations lead me to the definite con-
clusion that the inmates’ food is not a bit
less appetizing or monotonous than that
which is available to the civil population.

The housing conditions are not satis-
factory, but a description of their being dark,
dirty, and overcrowded is not justified. The
facilities, since the turnover to full German
control in March of this year, are better than
they were. Some permanent buildings have
been procured for use in addition to the

19

\

tents used. The present state of Hessian
economy, however, does not warrant the
erection of permanent or more substantial
structures.

Clothing is not good, but is adequate. The
statement that the internees are “dressed in
rags” is unwarranted. Negotiations are
under way to obtain better clothing from
US Army stocks. There are not sufficient
German stocks to provide special clothing
for these people.

Dr. Kogon’s statement that there are 1,205
internees who come under the youth amnes-
ty is incorrect. Under the Law for Libera-
tion, all of these people fall into either Class
I or II. Their ultimate classification rests
with the tribunals after trial. Attention must
also be called to the statement that there
are many political persecutees in the camp
who were taken into the Waffen SS against
their will. If this is true, then these same
people were promoted in the same organi-
zation against their will, for SS members
without rank are not interned.

A similar situation pertains to the for-
mer police officials and civil servants men-
tioned by Dr. Kogon. Of these classes, only
those who held such high ranks as to re-
quire tribunal hearing are being held in
Darmstadt.

Unsubstantiated statements by internees
do not constitute an ideal basis for allega-
tions of fact concerning their status.

Camp administration is also mentioned.
Prior to Dr. Kogon’s visit to Darmstadt, the
Minister for Political Liberation had been
instructed by Military Government to see
that internees are to have no more than
purely routine administrative duties in the
camp and that in no case were they to be
placed into positions in which they could
exercise authority over their fellows. This
new system is being installed to replace

--- Page 23 ---
the abolished system theretofore in effect.

Re-education is a great problem for solu-
tion by the enclosure administrators. The
Ministry for Political Liberation, acting
upon the suggestion of the Denazification
Division of this Headquarters, is undertak-
ing the solution of that problem. Distinguish-
ed supporters of democracy will lecture
on topics of current interest, various uni-
versity teachers will speak on non-political
matters and trade schools are being planned.

Representatives of all churches are pro-
vided with facilities for holding religious
observances in the camp, and no internee,
who so desires, has been denied the op-
portunity of worshipping or taking part
in religious activities.

While it is to be expected that a prison
or internment atmosphere does not inspire
the best in man, the tendency toward im-
morality, petty illegal transactions, and the
like, in the Darmstadt enclosure is not ab-
normal nor alarming. German criminal po-
lice are constantly working in the enclosure
to bring such practices to light and to stamp
them out.

WHAT GERMAN LEADERS THINK

diate adoption were economic in nature. They
dealt with raising the standard of living,
bettering working conditions, increasing the
food ration, eliminating unemployment, speed-
ing up the distribution and production of
taw materials and finished products, enliven-
ing international trade, or settling the cur-
rency problems in Germany.

The popular impression was that once Ger-
many is on a sound economic basis, peace
can be considered — from a realistic point of
view — to be sure and lasting. However,
33 percent strongly urged increased coopera-
tion among the Allies. While this was not
stated bluntly, it was contained in such sug-
gestions as “lift zonal barriers,” “give Ger-
many just one peace treaty,” “settle the atom
bomb problem.” Another minority group
urged the settlement of certain policy and
political problems: “teach democracy to us,”
“give Germany a central government,” and

Tribunals are operating daily within the
camp, with well over ten percent of the
inmates’ cases heard to date. This record is
not considered ‘unsatisfactory, when it is
realized that the entire tribunal, and trial
structure and an investigative staff had to
be set up and organized after the turn-over
of the first part of the camp to German
authorities in October 1946. It is possible
that trials would be conducted more rapidly
in home communities of the individuals in-
volved. Serious security problems, however,
dictate caution along these lines.

The operation of the Darmstadt enclosure
is completely German, subject only to the
supervision of Military Government, This
supervision, however, is being constantly ex-
ercised in order to insure that the best pos-
sible conditions and practices, under the
circumstances, prevail.

It must be admitted that conditions are
far from perfect, but all things considered,
it is likewise true that everything possible
is being done to insure that justice, without
cruelty or unusual punishment, is done to
every internee.

(Continued from Page 13)

20

“make the denazification program more just.”

The largest group of those making sug-
gestions on a long-term basis for a lasting
peace emphasized the need for inter-Allied
cooperation. Twenty-nine percent urged the
necessity of such cooperation; many of them
broadened the proposal to include “mutual
understanding and confidence among the
nations of the world.” Sixteen percent offered
long-range economic proposals and reiterated
the desire for better standards of living, in-
creased import-export trade, and revitaliza-
tion of German industry.

Most long-term suggestions, however, dealt
with the reconstruction of Germany. The
Germans asked, “leave self-administration to
the Germans,” “Germany should be united
again to better her living conditions,” “take
us back into the family of nations,” “estab-
lish a truly democratic country,” or “give
us Lebensraum.”

--- Page 24 ---
Organ of Public Opinion

The action of Gen. Joseph T. McNarney
in discussing German problems freely with
representatives of the German newspapers
at his last press conferences before retiring
as US Military Governor in Germany was
cited by the Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Re-
gensburg) as an illustration of what Ger-
man authorities must learn “before demo-
cratic concepts will be generally accepted.”
The editorial said in part:

“Large circles of our people can learn
much from this application of practical de-
mocracy. The Commander-in-Chief of the
American Armed Forces and the American
Civil Administrator in Germany deems it
expedient — though he certainly is not
obliged — to grant any information to the
German representatives of the press, because
he .... is deeply convinced of the im-
portance of the press as an organ of public
opinion ....

“Does the same conception prevail in all
German central administrative offices? Un-
fortunately, this question must be answer-
ed with a ‘No’... By mentioning . . . ex-
amples which reveal the arrogance of Ger-
man authorities toward public opinion rep-
resented by the press, we recognize how
much the Germans have got to learn before
democratic concepts will be generally ac-
cepted.”

Moscow Peace Conference

The Moscow Conference continued to be
top news in the licensed German press in
the US Zone with editorials generally agree-
ing with the statements of US Secretary of
State Marshall, opposing Soviet reparation
demands as too high for continued German
existence, and showing occasional skepticism
as to the outcome of the conference.

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
summarized the first two weeks of the con-

21

DP’s, the employment of former Nazis, etc.,
because their representatives were not able
to solve these questions. When, how, and
by whom will the main problems of the
international situation be solved? The will
to create a peace regulation by itself is not
sufficient to make the term ‘peace negotia-
tions’ appropriate for the present Moscow
discussions . . . . What has been achieved
so far is not a beginning, but a continuation
of debates that already led to a dead end in
London.”

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-
bischofsheim) said French Foreign Minister
Bidault finally touched the point at Moscow
“that to us Germans seems the quintessence
of the whole peace problem” — namely that
Germany soon will have 200 inhabitants per
square kilometer compared to 75 in France
and 62 in Poland. It continued:

“The loss of the eastern areas and the in-
flux of expellees will force us to increase
exports. . . . This forced export from Ger-
many will constitute a permanent factor of
perturbance in the world market. As soon
as the demand accumulated during the war
years has been more or less satisfied, the
industrial nations — the United States, Eng-
land, France, and Germany — will stand in
sharpest competition with each other on, the
export markets.

“The tendency of the cheapest labor sup-
ply to press down prices will then become
effective. The communist economic system
has to fear least from that. But the only
way out, for all concerned, remains that
proposed by Bidault: an international agree-
ment for the stabilization of the German
population on a reasonable economic and
geographical basis.”

The Heilbronner Stimme (Heilbronn) saic
the world suffers from lack of confidence.
Germany is not feared today, but each of the

--- Page 25 ---
great powers is afraid that the others will
get control of German potentials. To his
question, ‘“Why do the great powers suspect
each other?” the writer, Licensee Distelbarth
replied: :

_. “The ‘men who have the money and the
“power in the capitalist states fear to lose
both if communism conquers the earth. They
instinctively feel their weakness. They see
that there is no longer any question of pure

. so-called liberal capitalism. But they
want to hold up the development as long
as possible. Perhaps they think it is still
possible to avert the danger... .

“The Soviets who have just passed a
terrible test that previously nobody would
have thought possible ... firmly believe
that theirs is the future. But they also know
how vulnerable they are and how hostile
the world is towards them. Therefore, they
distrust the others.”

The writer concluded by asserting his faith
in the future: ‘In all history mankind stood
under the cruel whip of Scarcity and Dis-
trust. He who can read the signs sees that
a new age is dawning. This will be the
age of Confidence and Plenty. And those
who would stem the tide sign their own
death warrants.”

US Fight Against Starvation

An article in the Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Munich) looked “beyond the walls of one’s
own distress” — which the writer admits is
difficult. He pointed out that the role of
United States in the world is not only that
of creditor but also philanthropist. He con-
tinued:

“What the United States has been sending
into the world for some time runs a race
against increasing starvation. Not only in
our papers, but also in the papers of USA
stories on hunger are given a lot of space.
By the war and civil war huge areas were
devastated in China, the dams partly destroy-
ed, and big rivers deviated from their original
course. In the Rumanian Province of Mol-
dau, formerly one of the richest surplus
areas of Europe, uncounted people live on

leaves, roots and snow, bread is baked. out
of sawdust and bark. Millions of people are
confronted with death by starvation in the
Ukraine, a country that always lived in ease
and plenty.”

Question of German POW's,

The announcement of Soviet Foreign Sec-
retary Molotov that 890,535 German POW’s
remain in the Soviet Union brought strong
reactions of consternation among the Ger-
man press. Typical of the editorial comment
was that of the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Mu-
nich) which said:

“The statement of the number of POW’s
in Russia as being 890,535 is bound to create
consternation and deep unrest in millions
of German families. This stark figure is by
far the most shocking statistical data of
which post-war Germany has learned. Usu-
ally the number of German POW’s in Rus-
sia was estimated at the end of 1946 as
four to four and a half millions. . . Russia
has never issued a denial or declared that
these estimates were too high .... The
question arises about the fate of about two
to two and a half million human beings.”

No Leader in US Zone

The absence of any outsanding leader from
the US Zone among the new German pol-
itical personalities who “have the caliber
that the people expect of a political party
leader in a democracy,” was pointed out in
an editorial in the Schwaebische Landes-
zeitung (Augsburg). Concerning the leading
personalities today, the paper said, “We
name Dr. Adenauer, Jacob Kaiser of the
CDU, Dr. Schumacher of the SPD, Pieck
and Grotewohl of the SED, and Dr. Kuelz
of the Democrats. All these party leaders
are active in the British or the Soviet Zone.”

The paper declared that the one con-
sequence of the failure of the men on whom
hopes were founded in the US Zone was that
the political discussions turn within such
narrow limits.

--- Page 26 ---
GERMAN BOOKS AND MAGAZINES (Continued from page 6)

‘winter: A..few, on the other. hand, are of.

outstanding quality. and’ promise. This is
‘especially true of those produced for youth,
which have beén given special attention by
Publications Control and by German publish-
ers. Better over-all production depends
upon removal of such major obstacles as
shortages of paper, food, transport, communi-
cations, and information about the outside
world. Except for the small amounts of in-
formation that come to German researchers
and writers through interzonal trade, the
radio, and press, they remain cut off from
world intellectual currents.

‘What they produce, however, is designed
to reach the mass and not the few. In the
past, German publishers have tended to pro-
duce books in editions of 5,000 to 10,000 and
at prices averaging four, five, or six marks.
These edition sizes are too small and the
price is too high for the ordinary German.
Land ICD’s are actively promoting plans for
producing books of the highest-priority sub-
ject matter for one mark or less on newsprint
paper. Other zones have demonstrated that
such books can be produced in editions of
50,000%or 100,000 and sold at very low cost.
All US Zone publishers are being canvassed
for titles important enough to justify these

.. larger-issue editions. If paper were. available,

two or three titles a week could be produced
in the US Zone by this process with facilities
already available.

Publication of this unbiased material would
be fruitless if it did not reach large numbers
of the German people. To make fresh reading
matter available to the public, the Publi-
cations Control Branch operates special cen-
ters of information. Seventeen of the pro-
posed 20 US Information Centers already
have opened. Most of these are now being
used to capacity by German readers who
show their increasing’ interest by constantly
asking for new materials. These centers
serve German radio personnel, journalists,
editors and writers, physicians, political and
cultural leaders, scientists, dramatists, stu-
dents, youth and youth leaders, ministers of
religion, and the general public. Each center
has from four to 160 magazine subscriptions
and 2,542 to 8,000 volumes. Approximately
4,000 more books per center are en route
from the US War Department and from
individuals and institutions. These shipments,
in addition to 1,000 volumes per center now
being brought in from Switzerland, Sweden,
and Denmark, will greatly increase’ the scope
and quality of material available to readers.

Responsibilities Shifted on Rails

Tn an effort to return the German railroad
system to its pre-war position as a respon-
sible common carrier travel agency, compar-
able to those of other countries, close US
military supervision is being removed from
US military trains on the Reichsbahn system,
the Office of the Theater Chief of Transporta-
tion, Hq EUCOM, announced.

Working on the theory that the only way
in which the Germans will be able to return
to efficient operation of their railroads will
be by allowing them actually to operate their
system, EUCOM officials stated that military

passenger train operation will be transferred
from US military to German responsibility
as rapidly as possible. RTO’s and their US
Staffs are being drastically reduced, and
Germans substituted.

Transport Division, OMGUS, is to be
given reports of conditions in the operation
and service on military passenger trains in
the US Zone for appropriate action, These
reports, made by train commanders, are to be
sent to Hq EUCOM where they will be noted
and passed on the Transport Division for
action.

--- Page 27 ---
Press Praises Truman Speech
on Economic Foreign Policy

President Truman’s statement of US eco-
nomic foreign policy objectives in his speech
at Waco, Texas, has been widely lauded by
the American press as a timely and per-
suasive appeal for support of objectives of
freer world trade and economic cooperation
as embodied in the proposed charter of the
Tnternational Trade Organization.

Recalling that creation of the ITO is to
be discussed at the International Conference
in Geneva this month, the press emphasized
that the trend toward restrictive trade prac-
tices and economic barriers among the na-
tions must be revised if world peace is to
have a healthy foundation. The Press gener-
ally supported the President in his appeal
for strong and united American support of
ITO objectives in pointing out ihe extent to
which hipartisan support of these aims has
already been manifest in the United States,
both in and out of Congress.

The Washington Post said in part: “In
our opinion the President did not exag-
geraie the importance of forthcoming trade
negotiations in declaring that “success of this
program (for lowering of trade barriers) is
essential to the establishment of the ITO, te
the effective operation of the International
Bank and Moneiary Fund, and to the strength
of the United Nations structure of coopera-
tion in economic and political affairs.” He
was especially effective in driving home the
dangers to our system of free enterprise re-
sulting from the failure to liberalize trade
policies. The alternative io trade expansion
facilitated by lowering trade barriers is trade
regimentation. That, of course, is today the
rule rather than the exception. Unless the
trend is reversed by positive action along
lines indicated, the United States will be
forced, like other nations, to fight for world
markets and raw materials by resort to res-

24

“The President sums up the case against
these practices in two short sentences: “It is
not the American way,” he said. “It is not the
way of peace.” Thus he comes back to the
incontrovertible thesis that “peace, freedom
and world trade are inseparable.”

Minneapolis Morning Tribune: “To deny
the need for freer trade is to deny history.
Anyone who lived through the period after
World War I and the depression which
followed 1929 should have a lesson of those
years deeply etched in his mind.”

Cincinnati Enquirer: “Through ihe last,
two decades, especially, the trend has been
toward new barriers io trade. Only in the
United States, through the reciprocal trade
agreements program, has there been a counter-
trend. Ii is from this country that the main
impetus has come for restoration of freedom
in the economic life of the world. The meet-
ings at Geneva in April, therefore, are much
more than an effort to strengthen the ex-
porting industries of the world. They are a
concrete, practical attempt to buttress the
idea of freedom and to broaden the area of
the world committed io the practice of free-
dom in economic affairs.”

Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, urging the Re-
publican Party leaders in Congress to sup-
port continuation and extension of the US
reciprocal trade agreements program, said:
“This couniry must show the way to the
elimination of world trade barriers.”

Atlanta Constitution: “There will, of
course, be those who, for selfish or partisan
reasons, will seek to incite public misunder-
standing and criticism of work being under-
taken at Geneva. Realizing this, the President
wisely has moved io allay suspicion by ex-
pounding the issue with unmistakable logic
and sincerity.”

Toledo Blade: “President Truman’s ad-
dress brings before the country the issue on
which our bipartisan foreign policy is to

--- Page 28 ---
have its greatest test. Economic warfare can-
not exist side by: side with political coopera-
tion. President Truman compared the attacks
against trade and commerce of other nations
with political or military aggression. He
does not propose the abolition of protection,
but the continuance of a policy of carefully
adjusted reduction of trade barriers through-
out world. Interest of this country calls for
relatively free movement of goods and pay-
ment among nations. This is also the condi-
tion necessary for a healthy economic and
political world structure.”

St. Louis Star-Times: “More than anything
else, Truman. dispelled a lot of fog with
which the high-tariff bloc has tried to‘shroud
the international trade program. He asked
the people to go along or go back into isola-
tion. The choice should be easy, for, as he
said, ‘isolation, after two world wars, is a
confession of mental and moral bankruptcy.’ ”

St. Louis Post-Dispatch: “During the war,
we were solemnly dedicated to root out eco-
nomic warfare as a cause of a shooting war.
‘When peace came, we lent billions to get
other wartorn countries on their feet. We
led in founding the International Bank and
Monetary Fund, Congress found reciprocal
tariff reductions had done American interests
much good and no harm — and conferred
further tariff-reduction powers on the Pres-
ident. We took the lead in United Nations
and in drafting the charter of the ITO, a
UN auxiliary, for the mutual renunciation of
economic aggression. Thus we have great
effort and great amounts of money tied up in
this policy, as well as high hopes.”

New York Sun expressed concern over
“certain fundamental aspects of foreign
trade about which the President was silent.”
The Sun said: “It is of paramount concern,
for instance — though not mentioned by
President Truman —- that since 1934 the
United States has reduced more than 1,200 of
its tariff rates, and about half of them were
cut 50 percent. Further cuts would make a
disrupting, even disastrous, attack on the
protection that remains. Moreover, this’ is
the only country in the world that maintains
labor standards by federal control of wages

and hours, on a scale far superior to working
conditions elsewhere on earth. On these pri-
mary points, Truman said nothing at Waco,
Texas.”

Wall Street Journal said the US discus-
sions with other nations at Geneva concern-
ing reciprocal trade agreements seem to
offer hope of some accomplishment because
the agreements “are specific contracts with
closely limited objectives.” However, the
financial paper said: ““We are forced to doubt
that building another forum for continuing
discussion of the world’s ills will help to
cure them. It seems still more doubtful that
international trade can be organized and at
same time freed of restraints that now lie
upon it. Its disabilities are due, not to lack
of organization but to lack of ordered life
within the principal trading countries. It
is not easy to see how the ITO can fill that
vacuum.”

US Editor Gets German Meal

The impression of a visiting American
concerning the food served the Germans was
given by Victor O. Jones of the Boston Globe
following a recent tour of the US Zone by
a group of American editors. He wrote of
his visit at Wiesbaden with Dr. James R.
Newman, Director of the Office of Military
Government for Hesse, and added:

“In between times he gave us a taste
of what the average German eats for din-
ner... . Dinner, incidentally, added up to
640 calories and consisted of a small meat
ball, baked potato, dried lima beans, two
slices of black bread, a tiny pat of oleo,
two-thirds of a small apple, and a cup of
the vilest coffee I’ve ever tasted.

“I accused Dr. Newman of poisoning the
coffee, but his secretary assured me it tasted
rather better than what the Germans got.
A sassy German waitress said to make the
demonstration really accurate we should
be eating our meal in an unheated house
and with no tablecloth .. . . I must admit
it gave me a sense of fullness even though
I couldn’t get down the second slice of
bread.”

--- Page 29 ---
HOOVER INDUSTRY PROGRAM (Continued from page 10)

and the second, reparations for wrong done:

A. There has necessarily been, or will be,
a demolition of all arms plants as part of
disarmament. This destruction, however,
has included some plants which might have
been converted to peaceable production.

B. Reparations have been provided by as-
signment for removal to the different Allies
of certain percentages of “usable and com-
plete industrial equipment.” What proportion
of Germany’s peaceable productive plants
has been, or is, in the course of removal in
the French and Russian Zones is not known.
Certainly they have been very large from the
Russian Zone. The total for all Germany
amounts to an important segment of its
peaceful productivity. These removals in-
clude a large amount of “light industry”
(producing mostly consumers goods) as well
as “heavy industry” (producing mostly
capital goods). The removal of plants from
the American and British Zones has been
halted because of the refusal of Russia and
France to cooperate in interzonal economic
unity as provided for at Potsdam.

5. In addition to the above courses of
action, there have been general policies of
destruction or limitation of possible peaceful
productivity under the headings of “Pastoral
State” and “war potential.” The original of
these policies apparently expressed on Sept
15, 1944, at Quebec, aimed at: “converting
Germany into a country principally agri-
cultural and pastoral,” and included, ‘the
industries of the Ruhr and the Saar would,
therefore, be put out of action, closed
down...”

This idea of a “Pastoral State” partially
survived in JCS Order 1067 of April, 1945
for the American Zone. It was not accepted
by the British. The “Pastoral State” concept
was not entirely absent in the Potsdam
Declaration. It was partially ameliorated or
its name changed for another concept, the
“level of industry,” developed by the agree-
ment of March 26, 1946, and signed by
Russia, Britain, France, and the United
States. This agreement was a compromise

between the drastic terms proposed by Russia
and France and the more liberal terms pro-
posed by the other two nations.

One major theme of this “level of in-
dustry” concept is to destroy Germany’s
“war potential.” Under this concept certain
industries are to be blown up or prohibited,
others are to be limited as to production. The
emphasis was placed upon the limitation of
“heavy industry” with the view that Ger-
many could export enough goods from “light
industry” to buy her food and necessary
raw materials.

The absolute destruction or prohibition
includes ocean-going ships, shipbuilding,
aircraft, ball bearings, aluminum, magnesium,
beryllium, vanadium, and radio-transmitting
equipment, together with synthetic oil, am-
monia and rubber. Some of these provisions
may be essential to disarmament. Such ex-
ceptions are not included in the discussion
which follows.

Beyond these prohibitions, however, the
“level of industry” concept provides
elaborate restrictions, mostly on heavy in-
dustry. The following items are illustrative:

Tron ‘and steel production to be reduced
from 19,000,000 tons (as in 1936) to a
capacity of 7.5 million tons, with a maximum
(annual) production of 5.8 million tons and
only the “older plants” to be used.

Heavy machinery production to be 31
percent of 1938

Light'machinery production to be 50 per-
cent of 1938

Machine tools to be 38 percent of 1938

Electrical machinery to be from 30 percent
to 50 percent of 1938

Agricultural implements to be 70 percent
of 1936

Automobiles to be 10 percent of 1936

Trucks to be 67 ‘percent of 1936

Basic chemicals, including nitrogen, cal-
cium carbide, sulphuric acid, chlorine’ and
alkali to be 40 percent of 1936

Cement to be 65 percent of 1936

Electric power produced to be 60 percent
of 1936 ‘

--- Page 30 ---
No new -locomiotives until 1949:

Some “light industries” were also tu be
limited: .

Textiles to be 77 percent of 1936

Paper to be 65 percent of 1936

Boots and shoes to be 70 percent of 1936

Precision instruments and optics to be 70
percent of 1936

Miscellaneous chemicals to be 70 percent
of 1936

Pharmaceuticals to be 80 percent of 1936

Dyestuffs (export) to be 58 percent of
1936

The consequence to food supply.

We may first examine what has happened,
and what will happen, to the German food
supply under all the circumstances of an-
nexation and industrial controls.

Germany in 1936 was, by most intensive
cultivation, able to produce about 85 percent
of her food supply. This 85 percent has now
been reduced by 25 percent through the Rus-
sian and Polish annexations, or is down to
about 64 percent because even a larger popu-
lation is to be concentrated in the new Ger-
many.

Her production, however, was greatly
dependent upon intensive use of fertilizers.
The new Germany will require at least
500,000 metric tons of nitrogen and 650,000
tons.of phosphoric anhydride, she having
sufficient ‘potash.

Under the Level of Industry Agreement;
the domestic production of nitrogen eventual-
ly would be reduced to under 200,000 tons;
the production of phosphoric anhydride
would be reduced to about 200,000 tons. A
larger production of nitrogen is allowed
pending an opportunity to import: Part of
this reduction is due to the “Level of In-
dustry” steel reduction from which some
nitrogen and a large percentage of phos-
phoric anhydride requirements were obtain-
ed as by-products.

From these figures it is obvious that a
great discrepancy exists between minimum
agricultural needs and the possible fertilizer
production under the “Level of Industry”
plan. If we persist in these policies, unless

7

there are large “imports of fertilizer, Gér-
many’s food production is likely to drop
under 60 percent of her requirements even
with an austere diet.

New Germany, if there is to be a will to
work, to maintain order and to aspire to
peace, must have an average food supply of
at least 2,600 calories per person per day,
with adequate fats and protein content. (‘The
British average being 2,800—2,900 calories
at present and pre-war Germany about 3,000
calories.)

Taking the above limitations into con-
sideration and based upon actual experience
in the American and British Zones, and ex-
tending that experience with adaptations to
the Russian and French Zones, the indica-~
tions are that new Germany would need, at
present prices, to import over 1,250,000,000
dollars annually in food and animal feed.

At the end of the war Germany had a
very large nitrogen capacity. Despite losses
from war destruction, its potential produc-
tion was still about 700,000 tons per annum.
This capacity, if it had. been preserved,
would have supplied not only her own needs
but large exports to neighboring countries
as well. Fertilizers are now sorely needed
all over Europe for crop restoration. There-
fore,. through. the fertilizer reduction Ger-
many not only loses in her own food pro-
duction but her export potential to pay for
food, and the crops elsewhere in Europe are
reduced.

Consequences upon “heavy industry.”

The effect of the agreed “Level of In-
dustry” is stated in American official reports
that “the ‘heavy industry’ products for
which. Germany ‘was noted will virtually
disappear from her exports.”

' Thave exhaustively examined the produc-
tion and exports of Germany over some
years in the light of this “Level of Industry”
and they amply confirm this statement.
What the result may be is indicated by the
fact that her exports during peace from now-
restricted “heavy industries” comprised be-
tween 60 percent and 70 percent of the total
German exports. In 1936, for instance, a

--- Page 31 ---
generally prosperous-year, they amounted to
about 1,900,000,000 dollars out of a total of
about 2,700,000,000 dollars, both figures
converted into present prices. Under the
“Level of Industry” most of this 60—70 per-
cent is to be abolished, and Germany must
pay for most of her imports from exports
of “light industry.”

Germany must not alone import food and
animal feed, but also reduced amounts of
copper, lead, zinc, iron ore, leather, cotton,
wool, and other raw materials. Due to the
prohibitions, she must import all of her oil
and rubber, and considerable nitrogen for
fertilizers.

It is indeed a cynical fact that today we
are supplying Germany with oil and nitrogen
at the expense of the American and British
taxpayer, at a rate of 70,000,000 dollars per
annum, which, except for the “Level of In-
dustry” and the Russian refusal of zonal co-
operation, Germany could have produced
herself.

Consequences upon light industry.

As I have said, the assumption is that ex-
ports from the German “light industry,”
from coal and native raw materials, such as
potash, can pay for her imports of food and
other necessities. There are two reasons for
believing this assumption to be completely
invalid.

Had there been no loss of “light industry”
plants by annexation, had there been no
destruction of them by war, had there been
no removals for reparations, they could not
have produced enough exports to pay the
food bill alone. And the situation is made
doubly impossible by the restrictions now
imposed on what “light industry” is left, as,
for instance, on textiles.

If Germany is to buy food and the neces-
sary imports of raw material for the “light
industry,” she would require not only com-
plete restoration to pre-war level in “light
industry” but a much larger equipment than
she had even before the war.

Then Germany, with the expansion of
these industries, would be in a competitive
field of consumers’ goods with all the rest

of the world whose “light industries” have
been little damaged by war.

Some economic illusions.

There are several illusions in all this
“war potential” attitude.

A. There is the illusion that the new
Germany left after the annexations can be
reduced to a “Pastoral State.” It cannot be
done unless we exterminate or move
25,000,000 people out of it. This would ap-
proximately reduce Germany to the density
of the population in France.

B. There is an illusion in “war potential.”
Almost every industry on earth is a “war
potential” in modern war. No industry (ex-
cept direct arms manufacture) is a war
potential if the energies of a people are con-
fined to the paths of peace. If Germany be
disarmed in the way I have assumed above,
there must be a Control Commission to see
that they do not have any army or any navy.
And two score of intelligent men, as part of
that Commission, could see that there is no
arms production and that no industry is
manufacturing or storing materials for evil
purposes. Moreover, industry is not likely
to waste its substance, either by storing or
manufacturing for war, when there is no
army or navy to use it.

The question here is not “Level of In-
dustry.” The real question is whether the
Allied nations will stick to their abolition of
militarism itself in Germany. If they do
that, there is little danger from “war
potential” in industry.

C. Another illusion is that the “light in-
dustry” in Germany can be expanded to a
point where she will be able to pay for her
imports. In my view, it cannot be done for
years, and even then it is doubtful in the
face of competition with the “light in-
dustries” of other parts of the world.

D. The over-all illusion is that Germany
can ever become self-supporting under the
“Levels of Industry” plan within the borders
envisioned at present for new Germany.

E. A still further illusion is that Europe
asa whole can recover without the economic
recovery of Germany.

--- Page 32 ---
Consequences to Europe generally.

Thus there is a still wider aspect of this
“level of industry” — the needs of the rest
of Europe. Germany has been for a century
one of the great European centers of produc-
tion of capital goods — “heavy industry,”
which I may repeat are construction
materials, factory equipment, railway equip-
ment, electrical arid heavy machinery. The
other nations of Europe are in desperate
need of such goods for reconstruction from
damage. Moreover, a considerable part of
the European equipment on these lines is
German-made, and today, they cannot even
get replacements and spare parts, in con-
sequence of which their productivity lags.

From the standpoint of other nations, the
expansion of “light industry” to a point of
self-support for Germany will, by competi-
tion, injure these industries in the rest of
Europe. On the other hand, the products of
“heavy industry” is Europe’s first necessity
for recovery.

It must not be overlooked that Germany
was the market for every nation in Europe
and such a reduction of her economy will
tend to demoralize the industries and em-
ployment in those countries. For instance,
Germany was the market for over half the
exports of Turkey and over one-third of
those of Greece. In consequence, their loss
of this market contributes to increase the
relief they seek from the United States now.

Another illustration is the proposed limits
on steel. Large and efficient steel and iron
plants, undamaged or only partly damaged,
are standing idle in Germany. Formerly the
Germans imported millions of tons of iron
ore from France and Sweden. These mines,
under the “level of industry,” must remain
idle until a new steel industry is built else-
where. That will require years and an
amount of capital that is not in sight. In
the meantime Europe needs steel for re-
construction as she never did before.

To indicate the anxiety of surrounding
states a memorandum of the Netherlands
Government of January 1947, in presenting
the absolute necessity to the surrounding

nations that a productive economic state be
created in Germany, said: “The provisions
of the plan for reparations and the level. of
German economy of March 1945 require to
be revised... it is inadvisable to lay down
maximum quota for production of German
industries including the iron and steel in-
dustries.”

The sum of all this is: Germany, under the
“Level of Industry” concept, unless she is to
be allowed to starve, will be a drain on the
taxpayers of other nations for years and
years to come. In the meantime, if her light
industries were built to become self-support-
ing, she would become an economic menace
to Europe; if her heavy industries are allow-
ed to function, she has an ability to export
and would become an asset in Europe’s
recovery. To persist in the present policies
will create, sooner or later, a cesspool of un-
employment or-pauper labor in the center of
Europe which is bound to infect her neigh-
bors.

We can keep Germany in these economic
chains but it will also keep Europe in rags.

A new economic policy.

Therefore, I suggest that we adopt at once
a new economic concept in peace with new
Germany.

(1) We should free German industry, sub-
ject to a Control Commission, which will see
that she does no evil in industry, just as we
see that she does not move into militarism
through armies and navies.

The differences between this concept and
the “Level of Industry” concept is the sav-
ing of several hundred millions of dollars a
year to the American and British taxpayers.
It is the difference between the regeneration
and a further degeneration of Europe.

(2) The removal and destruction of plants
(except direct arms plants) should stop.

(3) A further obstacle to building Ger-
many as an essential unit of European
economy arises from the Russian Govern-
ment’s acquiring a large part of the key
operating industries in their zone. Germany
in peace must be free from ownership of in-
dustry by a foreign government. Such owner-

--- Page 33 ---
ship can thwart every action of ‘control our
of up-building by joint action of other
nations. German industry must be operated
by Germany if any international control is
to work, if she is to recover production and
is to serve all nations equally.

(4) There can be no separation or dif-
ferent regime of the Ruhr or Rhineland from
the new Germany. That is the heart of her
industrial economy. Any Control Commission
can dictate the destination of coal or other
exports from that area and even such control
would not be needed after the area of
scarcity passes from Europe.

Part II: The interregnum before peace.

How long it may be before there is such a
constructive peace with Germany, no one can
tell. It may be long delayed. In the mean-

time, we are faced with the feeding of the’

people in the Anglo-American Zones on a
level just above starvation until we can
develop enough export goods from these
zones so that the Germans may pay for their
food. I have said, American and British tax-
payers are called upon for about 600,000,000
dollars a year for relief.

We have an admirable staff in Military
Government of Germany under Generals
Clay and Draper but their administration is
constantly frustrated in building up the
needed exports to pay for food and minimum
raw material imports. A larger part of these
delays is due to the following:

A. The Russians and the French have
failed to carry out the provisions of the
Potsdam Agreement for economic unity in
the four zones. The Russian Zone ordinarily
produces a surplus of food but that surplus
is used elsewhere, thus increasing the burden
of imports on the Anglo-American Zones.
Both the Russian and French Zones are pro-
ducing industrial commodities which would
relieve necessities in the Anglo-American
Zones and could contribute to: exports with
which to pay for food. The net effect is that
the United States and Great Britain through
relief are paying Russian and French rep-
arations.

B. The inability to determine what specific

30

plants are to be the victims of ‘Level of Ln-
dustry,” or destruction or the removal for
reparation, produces stagnation because the
Germans do not know where to begin to
work,

C. There is lack of working capital with
which to import raw materials for such in-
dustries as are allowed to function.

BD. An inflated currency and no adequate
banking system hampers all forward move-
ment in such industry as is left.

E. While denazification and decarteliza-
tion are ‘necessary and important, certain
phases of them limit recovery. They are so
involved as not to warrant description here:

Conclusion.

As to the bizonal administration — if,
however, we cannot get a quick and sound
peace on the lines I have recounted, the
Anglo-American Zones should abandon the
destruction of plants, the transfer of plants
for reparations and the “Level of Industry”
concept, and start every plant, “heavy” as -
well as “light,” which can produce non-
arms goods. This will relieve far more
rapidly great costs to our taxpayers; it will
do infinitely more for Europe than American
loans and charity.

Indeed, the Congressional Committee on
postwar economic policy urged, on December
30, 1946, that the “levels of industry” be
ignored wherever they conflict with exports
so that there may be earlier recovery’ and
payment for food. .

The violation by Russia and France of the

Agreement for Economic Unification of the
four Zones of Military Occupation’ and the ©
additional burdens thus imposed upon us in
consequence certainly warrant our ignoring
all agreements for “level of industry” trans-
fer and destruction of non-arms plants. ©”
' If this interregnum is to endure for long,
we could build a self-sustaining economic
community out of the Anglo-American Zones
alone. This could be only a temporary ex-
pedient, not a final ‘solution. Building a
lasting peace in Europe should be our ob-
jective. : .

--- Page 34 ---
Reactions to Zone Press Noted

Approximately half of the readers of the
German language licensed press in the US
Zone are. satisfied with. the newspapers in
their communities, while only one reader
in twenty thinks that his local paper is
“bad,” according to a public opinion survey
by the Information Control Division, OMG-
JS. To determine reader reaction to 32
out of the 44 German-published newspapers
in the Zone, interviewers questioned about
8,000 Germans over a period of two months.

In response to the question, “What. do
you think of the newspaper being publish-
ed in this community?” 48 percent answer-
ed “very good or good,” 37 percent an-
swered “fair,” and five percent classified
their local papers as “bad.” Ten percent ex-
pressed no opinion. Improvement was noted
by 29 percent, while: three percent contend
that they have “gotten worse”; others felt
there had been no change. That the coverage
of the papers has been adequate was indicat-
ed when 74 percent answered “yes” to the
question, “Does your newspaper contain
everything you are interested in?”

The interviewed Germans were not deeply
concerned over the possible influence of MG
control of the press. Readers know that
their newspapers must meet certain require-
ments set forth by Military Government, but
25 percent named censorship or control by
the occupying power as one of the “main
difficulties under which the newspapers
must work at the present time.” Aciually
only post-publivation scrutiny of the licens-
ed press is exercised by Military Govern-
ment. There is no censorship of the press
in the US Zone.-

The Germans expressed overwhelming
agreement with MG policy of fostering a
non-partisan, but not unpolitical, press. The
question brought a 77 percent vote in favor
of a nonparty press. Fifteen percent had
no opinion, and. only eight. percent favored
a party press. Only 16 percent of the readers
charged that their papers showed political
preference.

$i

A significant correlation between reader
popularity and ICD evaluation of the va-
rious newspapers was discovered among’ the
Bavarian papers rated highest by ICD. The
four papers which are doing the most vig-
orous and intelligent jobs of reorientation
and reeducation, according to the Informa-
tion Control Security Boards, are also among
the top eight in reader popularity.

While newspaper criticism of local Ger-
man government policies is a radical depar-
ture from press behavior in the Nazi era,
readers are highly in favor of it. Seventy
percent of the newspaper readers interview-
ed answered “yes” to the question, “Do you
think that the local newspaper should crit-
icize the local administration if the pub-
lishers think it is not doing a good job?”

Truman Message Praised

Favorable comments were expressed by
the German licensed press on the message
of President Truman to Congress on Greece
and Turkey. Describing the message as a
straw in the wind, the Fraenkische Presse
(Bayreuth) said: oo

“The economic and political balance of the
continent is disturbed and needs help. That
can only come from a source that was not
directly affected by the destruction of war.
If the statement of President Truman means
the growth of the recognition that assistance
must be rendered — not only to Greece and
Turkey — it might be an early sign for
a balancing and stabilization of conditions
on the continent, which is anxiously need-
ed at many places.”

Das Zeit-Echo (Schwaebisch-Hall) said:
“The most positive part of the whole event
is the courage and initiative with which help
is being brought where it is really needed.
The enormous financial burden that is being
assured by the United States deflates ipso.
facto the accusations that ‘dollar diplomacy’
was driving at world hegemony.”

--- Page 35 ---
MILITARY

STATION LIST

GOVERNMENT

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Lucius D. Clay
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co Ge

*S-10 SK Stuttgart
*S-21 LK Boeblingen
*S-23 LK Esslingen
*S-29 LK Ludwigsburg
*S-30 LK Waiblingen
*S-50 LK Backnang
*S-53 LK Leonberg
*S-55 LK Nuertingen
*5 58 LK Vaihingen

*M-16 SK/LK Mannheim
*M-43 SK/LK Heidelberg
*M-89 LK Buchen

*M-90 LK Mosbach

*M-91 LK Tauberbischofsheim
*M-92 LK Sinsheim

*K-47 SK/LK Karlsruhe
*K-46 SK/LK Pforzheim
*K-87 LK Bruchsal

*H-28 SK/LK Heilbronn
*H-22 LK Crailsheim
*H-26 LK Schwaebisch Hal!
*H-52 LK Kuenzelsau
*H-54 LK Mergentheim
*H-56 LK Ochringen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area

Stuttgart
Boeblingen
Esslingen
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Leonberg
Nuertingen
Vaihingen

Mannheim Area

Mannheim
Heidelberg

Buchen

Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
Sinsheim

Karlsruhe Area

Karlsruhe
Pforzheim
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area

Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schwaebisch Hall
ge -
ad Mergentheim
Oehringen

32

Maj Gen F A Keating
Deputy Military Governor

Mr Sumner Sewall

Lt Col M O Edwards
ist Lt F J Czeiner

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst
Capt N Semaschko Jr
Capt E E Oja

Maj F A Hubbard
Capt R Forrest

Capt S P Giunta

Maj J S Capell

Capt S Smith

Lt Col C H Rue
Lt Col C L Jackson
Capt C A Wright
Capt I D Claxton
Capt N W Barber
Capt J E Switzer

Lt Col R C Burt
Maj R H Stimson
Capt T C Stenson

Lt Col CH J Weat
Capt R E Alley
Maj C E Keena
Capt T E Griswold
Capt B V Bloom
Capt G H Caple

--- Page 36 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

) DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING ' OFFICER
Ulm Area
*U-11 SK/LK Ulm Ulm Maj M L Hoover
*U-25 LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Lt Col A G Spitz
*U-20 LK Aalen Aalen Maj C H Pallette
*U-24 LK Schwaebisch Gmuend Schwaebisch Gmuend Maj R Lascoe
*U-27 LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Maj LH Kyle

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*“SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Huenfeld
*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt

*LK Gross-Gerau

*SK/LK Offenbach

*LK Bergstrasse b Worms
*LK Erbach

*LK Buedingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE

Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633) .

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden .
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Ruedesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Huenfeld -
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach ~
Buedingen

33

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Ist Lt P J Weiss
Capt B A Sturdevan

Maj G C Sola

Col F H_ Boucher
Maj D Easterday
Maj B L Bassinor
Capt C D Fexy

Capt W L Culbertson
Maj R A Gish

Lt Col M A Meacham
Capt J S Chapin

Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt J Nottingham
Capt J N Francis
Maj M E Chotas
Capt O Howard

Lt Col G J Albrecht
Maj W C Gipple
Maj J Connely
Capt T W: Harris
Lt Col C H Reed
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt W G Westbrook Jr
Maj C F Parshall
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E E Covell
Maj H Baymor
Capt S Kershaw -
Capt L R Allen
Capt T E Faircloth

Lt Col A Skarry
Capt N C Neider
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj'A Gill

Maj L_ H Brown
Capt G P Johnson

--- Page 37 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq & Sv Company

CoA

*A-210 SK/LK Wurzburg
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen

*4-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Bruckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemunden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*a-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt

*A-339 LK Konigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*4-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER. HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA

Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 407)

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Saale
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

DIRECTOR'OR
‘COMMANDING OFFICER’

Capt M S Clark *
Maj P E Perry
Maj C R Russe
Capt C R Argo
Capt S A Karas

Brig Gea W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Maj R M Schwartz

Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col Robert Herbison
Lt Coh M W Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R C Jernigin
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Maj R C Gesell
Capt G G Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt V R Hurst

Maj R J Holmes
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt S E Witty
Capt L K Owens
Capt I A Lowell
Maj A C Mclntyre
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt L D Jaeger
Maj E C Wimberly

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nurnberg
*B-222 SK/LK poner
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreut:
#B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 Neustadt & Coburg
*B-226 Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Furth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels, &
SK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
penkers
Bayreut!
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz

34

Col E M_ Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col Callicot

Lt Col S M Guild

Lt Col J A Thompson
Lt Col F Robie

Maj H T Lund

Maj H L Woodall

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Lt Col J A McEboy

Maj F W Crimp
Maj L L Haupt
Ist Lt. LW; Dilgard
Maj F Meszar

Capt J R Palmer

--- Page 38 ---
UNIT: OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*B-256 LK Muenchberg _
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuhl
*B-262 LK Eichstatt
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf

*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila

*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Muenchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Herzbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Maj R C Anderson
Capt W _W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H Zurn

Maj L L Haupt
Capt R Julien

Capt N E Petty
May R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Maj C W Collier
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj F C Smith
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
Maj F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D

*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg

*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
a. d. Wald

*D-243 SK/LK Passau

*D-244 SK/LK Amberg

*D-245 SK/LK Landshut

*D-246 SK/LK Straubing

*D-274 LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach

*D-301 LK Deggendorf

*D-302 LK Eggenfelden

*D-303 LK Grafenau

*D-304 LK Kelheim

*D-3U LK Landau a. d. Isar

*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen

*D-207 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen

*D-309 LK Vilsiburg

*D-310 LK Wolfstein

*D-349 LK Kemnath

*D-350 LK Nabburg

*D-351 LK Oberviechtach

*D-352 LK Riedenberg

*D-352 LK Vohenstrauss

*D-353 LK Roding

*D-354 LK Waldmuenchen

*D-355 LK Beilngries

*D-356 LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.

*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

*D-375 LK Bogen

*D-377 LK Dingolfing

*D-378 LK Griesbach

*D-379 LK Kotzting

*D-380 LK Mainburg

*D-381 LK Mallersdorf

*D-382 LK Rottenburg

*D-383 LK Viechtach

*D-385 LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

35

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj G J Ganer

Maj C G Doyle

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj H J Mrachek
Maj R E Boyd

Lt Col J R Hector
Capt I R Mariels
Capt Phillips

Maj E O Carlson
Capt E A McNamara
Maj G E Griffin
Maj R O Woodward
May H A_ Hlardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt A J Harwood
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickham
Capt N Ugland

Lt Col G M Foster
Capt Segur

lst Lt G L Thomas
Capt R N McWhorter
Maj D L O’Roark
Maj | G Shackelford
Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Maj B B Coullahan
Maj LP Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Capt C M Ziegler
Capt A G Albert
Capt V D Dygert
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson Jr
Capt C G Dansby
Maj J J Maher Jr
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones

Maj R E Levy

Maj J F Rey

lst Lt K L Miller Jr

--- Page 39 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E
*E-213 SK/LK Munich
*E-231 SK/LK Freising
*E-232 LK Miesbach
*E-233 LK Traunstein
*E-234 LK Altoetting
*E-235 SK/LK Rosenheim
*E-236 LK Garmisch-
Partenkirchen
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt
*E-280 LK Erding
*E-281 LK Laufen
*E-282 LK Muhldorf
*E-283 LK Wasserburg
*E-284 LK Toelz
*E-285 LK Aibling
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*E-287 LK Landsberg
*f-288 LK Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 LK Starnberg
*E-290 LK Weilheim
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden
*E-361 LK Ebersberg
*E-362 LK Aichach
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-367 Dachau
*E-368 Schongau

Co G

*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg
*G-239 LK Dillingen
*G-240 LK Neu Ulm
*G-241 LK Sonthofen
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth
*G-293 LK Gunzber,
*G-294 LK Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 LK Memmingen
*G-296 LK Mindeleheim
*G-297 LK Neuberg
*G-298 LK Nordlingen
*G-299 LK Fussen

*G-300 LK Krumbach
*G-369 LK Illertissen
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren
*G-372 LK Wertingen
*G-373 LK Friedberg
*G-374 LK Schwabmunchea

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen
Wesermuende Detachment

Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Garmisch

Ingolstadt
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz
Aibling
Fuerstenefeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillin;

Neu Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwoerth
Gunzber;
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

LAND BREMEN
(APO 751)

Bremen
‘Wesermuende

BERLIN SECTOR
(APO 742-A)

Berlin

Lt Col R J Philipott
Lt Col J H Kelly
Maj L R Da

Capt W A Forys
Capt VL Thon
Capt C A Larimer
Lt Col S R Place
Lt Col R T Shelby

Lt Col J A Crewe
Capt G D Jacobson
Capt C J Wardle
Maj J J Posten
Capt D Root

Maj A O Froede
Capt S J Kushner
Ist Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Brown
Maj H E Reed
Maj C E Carlsen
Capt M J Groves
Capt M J Groves
Maj W W Perham
Capt E J Pennetto
Maj E J Newmayer
Capt H_ J Bierman
Ist Lt J A Walker
Maj A J Feore

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R H Bryant
Maj H E Howlett
Maj J E Rhea

Maj R E Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Maj M G Norum
Capt S_D Lubin

1st Lt E C Paie

Capt L A Proper
Maj H M Sebastian
Capt J A Morris
Capt J N Urtes

Capt H V Worthington
Capt F W Guzak
Maj S H Darragh
Capt J S Woodwart
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Mr T F Dunn
Lt Col L S Diggs

Col F L Howley