--- Page 2 ---
“TTOYYMANUFACTURE wala’ 43 i (
73 fo "i

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG

BIEDEN-~
OPE MARBURG

LAUTERBACH
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
Sag FRIEDBERG
aX QBERTAUNUS|

Sus

FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

OFSHEIM

|EIDELBERG) MOSBACH

is 4
v.

HEILBRONN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

8

Signal Corps Photo

TABLE OF CONTENTS

TOY MANUFACTURE—Toy-making, as
illustrated by the Bavarian worker at her
Machine, is an important part of the in-

‘dusi:ial program taken up in “MG's Task in MG's Task in Industry.» ©. - sss 1s. 2
Industry” on page 2 and “Export Buyers :
Guide on page 5. Export Buyers Guide . . . mined eidegded wise  atuS
: Corn Imported for’Food 30° Lh in ero eG
Industrial ‘Revival’ Noted =! Jsi09c% 49 sew toe
OUR CONTRIBUTORS
Frankfurt Academy of Labor . ........ 8

Albert A. Mavrinac, author of Frankfurt

Academy of Labor, is Manpower Specialist Big US Potatoes as Seed... 2. so). 10
with the Office of Military Government of

“Hesse. A lieutenant in the Infantry during | Confidence Expressed in British MG . . .... If
“the war, he joined the Manpower Division German Reactions. . ©.) Weis? 9 Se ee aaa
“More ‘han a year and half ago.

| Press and RAGION rs silee sie ss fois SP een ay Lo

: Export Buyers Guide was taken from a
pamphic{ prepared by the Economics Divi- Official Instructions: 2.5 io) i. a ogee aa uae mec ao.
sion, ©MGUS, for the use of US industrial-

isis and businessmen visiting Germany.

MG's ‘Task in Industry was prepared from
“Teleases by the Office of Public Relations,
- OMGUS, and from the text of the report by
: a Harry L. Berno, Chief of the Industry
; Branch, ¥conomics Division, OMGUS, at the
briefing session for a group of American

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.5.)

Mi oess execu CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
G's

Task in Industry

jourteen prominent American bus-
Fines executives, now touring the
US and British Zones of Germany to
study German economy, were given a
detailed briefing of the policies, oper-
ations, and aims of Military Govern-
ment during the party's initial visit to
Berlin. Following a scheduled 20-day
tour of the two zones and a visit to
Vienna, the group is to return to
Berlin with possible counsel for the
MG program to put the German econ-
omy on a self-supporting basis.

The economic features of Military
Government were of special interest
to the visiting executives. One session
on Saturday, 19 April, was devoted to
reports by officials of the Economics
Division, OMGUS, and the second
session on the following Monday to
statements from other functional
divisions of OMGUS.

The visiting party, composed of re-
presentatives of large industrial firms
in the United States included: Leslie
Brown, president of Lenox, Inc; E.
Gibson Carey, Jr., president of Yale
and Towne Mfg. Co.; Herman E. Cone,
president of Proximity Mfg.; Albert
M. Creighton, chairman of the Board
of Directors, Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston; Martin Herbert Eisenhart,
president of Bausch and Lomb Op-
tical Co.; G. H. Johnson, president of
Gisholt Machine Co.; Albert C. Mattei,
president of Honolulu Oil Corp.; Thom-
as E, Millsop, president of Weirton
Steel Co.; Lessing J. Rosenwald, re-
tired chairman of Board of Directors,
Sears Roebuck Co.; Ames Stevens,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

director of New England Trust Co.;
Edwin J. Thomas, president of Good-
year Tire and Rubber Co.; Sinclair
Weeks, president of Reed and Barton
Corp.; Leigh Willard, president of
Inter-Lake Chemical Corp. and Inter-
Lake Iron Corp.; and Dr. Ames Tay-
lor, director of Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce, Department of
Commerce.

The speakers, all of them specialists
in their fields, reviewed at the brief-
ings the problems and industrial
bottlenecks facing Military Govern-
ment in the discharge of its objectives
in Germany which were enumerated
as follows:

1. To prevent Germany from ever
again disturbing the peace of the
world.

2. To denazify the economic, social
and political life of Germany, and
punish wrongdoers.

3. To achieve industrial disarma-
ment and demilitarization at the ear-
liest possible date.

4. To insure the progress and de-
velopment of democratic government.

5. To carry out quadripartite pol-
icies with respect to reparations and
restitution.

6. To care for the victims of Ger-
man aggression and persecution, in-
cluding displaced persons and pri-
soners of war.

Col. Lawrence Wilkinson,
Director of the Economics Divi-
sion, told them that “I have
been in the European’ Theater
for the past five years myself,

Acting

2

and I don't want to have to do
this job over again. But we have to
be realistic. We can't allow the Ger-
mans to starve, and we can't ask the
American taxpayer to continue to dig
down into his pocket in order to bring
food into Germany. There is no so-
lution except to allow the German to
work, produce for export so that they
can pay for the imports we are bring-
ing over to this country, and give
them a diet adequate to support a
hard-working population.”
Considering the difficulties involv-
ed, the United States has maintained
cordial relations with the other three
occupying Powers, Colonel Wilkinson
said, despite reports to the contrary.
He declared that failure to achieve
economic unity had greatly increased
the cost of occupation and had forced
the imposition last summer of a new
reparations policy, calling for a stop-
page of further dismantling of repa-
rations plants with the exception of
war plants and those plants which
had been definitely allocated as ad-
vance deliveries. 7
Referring to the steps taken in
turning over responsibility to the Ger-
man agencies, Colonel Wilkinson
reminded that policy-making preroga-
tives, and powers of control and in-
spection are being retained by Mili-
tary Government. He recalled the
steps taken to fuse the British and
US Zones in economic spheres and
emphasized that the invitation to
French and Soviet Administration to
join the Combined Area still stands.

28 APRIL 1947

--- Page 6 ---
American business executives, visiting Germany to offer counsel on
MG's program, listen to explanations of Progress an industrial revival

“Tt is not unreasonable to hope that
this invitation will be accepted,”
Colonel Wilkinson said.

John French, US Member of the
quadripartite Economics Directorate,
who described the four-Power legis-
lative machinery and gave instances
of its cooperation on many unpubli-
cized issues, said the United States
takes the position that there should
be no increase in foreign investment
in Germany at the present time. He
said the United States didn't wish to
have the country flooded by “carpet-
baggers," and explained American
opposition to the acquisition of Ger-
man industrial plants by foreign gov-
ernments,

Col. Hugh Hester, Chief of the Food
and Agriculture Branch, told the
business executives that the food
situation in Germany today is ‘des-
perate, and will continue to remain
desperate for some years to come,
unless we are willing to put money
into Germany so that Germany can
get back on her feet and work hard
to pay her own bills."

The export-import program which
has as its over-all objective the export
of $350,000,000 worth of consumer
8oods during 1947, $600,000,000 in 1948
and $900,000,000 in 1949, was explain-
ed by Edward Hutton, Deputy Chief
of the Trade and Commerce Branch,
who showed the steps which have
been taken during the past four
Months to facilitate export trade,

28 APRIL 1947

A detailed review of the industrial
picture was given by Col. Harry
L. Berno, Chief of the Industry Branch,
OMGUS, pointing out that “Military
occupation by quadripartite action is
perhaps the most unique economic,
political, and social experiment in the
history of the world," and the funda-
mental difference in policies, aims,
motives, and ambitions “obviously
makes industrial and business rela-
tions as complex and complicated as
it is possible to make them.” He con-
tinued in part:

“As Germany is divided into four
zones of occupation, the Potsdam
Agreement provided that it should
be treated as an economic whole, witn
free interchange of goods and in-
dustrial products between the zones.
This unfortunately has not been the
case and has resulted in a form of
barter between the zones which has
made the free interchange of goods
and the normal relationships between
supplier and customer very difficult,
if not in some cases impossible.

“In the US Military Government
the activities of the Industry Branch
are divided into two basic functions
—first, to fulfill its responsibility to
the American people to see and make
sure in collaboration with the other
three occupying powers that Germany
is completely demilitarized and de-
industrialized for war-making pur-
poses, At least 30 to 40 percent of the
staff's time is spent in quadripartite

3

Photo by Byers

discussions of every phase of in-
dustrial activity, making studies and
recommendations necessary to see
that this responsibility is properly ful-
filled and executed,

“For example, the basic war-time
industries like manufacture of air-
planes, ships, submarines, etc., have
been completely destroyed and pro-
hibited and the capacities of those
industries used for both war and
peacetime pursuits have been reduced
to eliminate the war potential or
possibility. I refer to chemicals, oils,
steel, cement, machinery, optics, and
other industries in the same category.
In steel the reduction has been from
26,000,000 ingot tons of capacity to
7,500,000 and a permitted production
of 5,800,000 which now, after a year's
experience, is frankly considered to
be too low even for a minimum peace-
time economy...

“The second responsibility and func-
tion of the Industry Branch js the
creation or establishment, separately
in our zones and together with other
powers of a peacetime German
economy which is self-supporting and
which will not become a burden to
the taxpayers, particularly of the US
and British Governments but which
also does not become a demoralized
economic vacuum that is a constant
menace to the peace of Europa and
therefore the rest of the world,

“Our problem is a paradoxical one
because on the one hand we are try-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 7 ---
War-polential is eliminated from industrial plants. Above is the Elektrochemische
Werke Muenchen, which has been declared a “Reparations Plant’. Below shows
conversion of the former drying chamber of Fabrik Kraiburg at Muehldorf to
workshops and living quarters for a new industry. Forty special purpose build-

ings had been destroyed. Photos by Byers

ing to fear German industry down to
prevent its becoming a war menace
which again might be costly in lives
and money to our country, and second-
ly, we are trying to rebuild Germany
in order to have sufficient quantities
of exportable items which will also
save the American taxpayer some of
the hundreds of millions of dollars
that are currently being poured into
this country to keep the people
alive...

“In connection with the economic
merger with the British Zone, the
German agencies are set up along in-
dustry lines to make recommendations,
plans, and policies as to how German
industry in the bizonal area should
operate. The US and British elements
consisting of a relatively small staff
are there to review and determine the
feasibility and soundness of the re-
commendations made by each of the
German committees and to refer if nec-
essary, the more important policy
questions to Berlin where they are
again reviewed by US and British
Military Governments. This setup
provides adequate supervision and
control but still allows the Germans
themselves wide latitude in the ad-
ministration of industrial affairs. The
US and British Military Government
therefore is becoming largely a con-
trol, inspection, and advisory body...

“We have on our staff in Berlin
approximately 110 persons... We rep-
resent the United States in all in-
dustrial quadripartite activities. We
represent the United States in ne-
gotiation with foreign countries on
matters within our competency. We
act as technical advisors on industry
matters in the preparation of com-
munications to our War and State
Departments. One of our most im-
portant functions is to act as technical
advisors to our Bipartite Economics
Control Group staff at Minden on the
industrial recommendations of the
German committees. Also one of our
most important functions is to advise
and aid in the control and inspection
of German industry...

“At the end of hostilities Germany
was industrially flat...By 1 January
1946 Germany was just starting to
have some industrial activity and this

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 8 ---
merican businessmen once again

are coming to Germany. Sponsored
by the Joint Export-Import Agency
US/UK, they are visiting the US and
British Zone to make purchases of con-
sumer goods when available, and sur-
vey the export markets. Because the
success of the bizonal export-import
Program to increase German self-suffi-
ciency largely depends upon these
new visitors, the Economics Division,
OMGUS, has prepared a guide-book
for their use while in Berlin and the
two zones, It is designed to help the
businessmen acquire an intelligent up-
to-date picture of Germany and to free

28 APRIL 1947

them from confusion and less of pre-
cious time in a new land.

These visitors leave a wealthy
country where large-scale production
is going ahead swiftly and efficiently.
They come to a land still devastated
by effects of war where transportation,
machinery, and raw materials are at a
minimum, and where importing food
and other necessities must be done to
prevent widespread disease and un-
rest. This picture is given to the reader
of the Export Buyers Guide to Ger-
many, along with a brief explanation
of the zonal system under which the
country of Germany now exists.

5

To the newcomer to Germany, the
Guide suggests:

“You will find, in dealing with Ger-
mans, that they respond, as do most
other peoples, to courtesy, friend-
liness and consideration. Do not fight
the war all over again with provocation
and undignified raillery. Remember
that we are attempting to help the
German people rebuild their shattered
economy to a tolerable living stand-
ard so that they can strike out afresh
on the paths which will lead them to
democracy and freedom.

“One of the kasic concepts of US
occupation policy is the importance of
putting this country on a paying basis.
Every schoolboy knows that to live on
a dole is bad—bad for the recipient
and bad for the giver.

“This is particularly true of anation
such as Germany which has tradition-
ally been a keystone in the European
economic structure.

Production Will Increase

“Our efforts to help German in-
dustry manufacture exports with
which to pay for her imports, depend
to a large degree upon you, the Ameri-
can businessman. You will find many
of the export products on display at
the Wiesbaden, Stuttgart, and Munich
Exhibitions. A great many of these
may not yet be available for purchase
in large quantity but we hope that
they will be in the not too distant
future. Some of them, such as toys
and quality cameras and other pre-
cision instruments, are already on sale
in the American and European mar-
kets. Do not be impatient if you
cannot get quick action on all your
orders. Production will increase as
soon as existing bottlenecks in fuel,
transportation, and raw materials are
broken.

Piace Orders Now

“What we suggest at this time is that
you examine the products and if they
are suitable leave your orders. They
will be taken care of at the earliest
possible moment.”

Since the economic merger of the
US/UK Zones, businessmen naturally
are able to travel in both regions to
study export possibilities in industry.
How the bizonal agreement came

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
about and what it means in terms of
the average German or American
pocketbook is discussed in detail in
the Buyers Guide.

The booklet states:

“The agreement was hinged upon a
policy to which the majority of Amer-
icans and Britons subscribe, namely,
that the German people should be re-
quired to work to support themselves,
that they could not make their country
self-supporting without exports with
which to pay for imports, and that no
export program could succeed without
an adequate diet for the workers and
supplies of raw materials, especially
coal, for the export industries...”

Prevent Economic Collapse

“Only through the use of his skills
in the peaceful industries which he is
permitted to employ, can the German
prevent economic collapse such as
swept the country to the inflation and
chaos of the twenties. The craftsman
who produces mechanical toys for
children, leather wear or textiles or
costume jewelry or cameras, can pay
back the cost of importing food only
if he can sell his handiwork on the
world market.

“Every dollar derived from the sale
of German exports goes to pay for
imports. German labor as well as the
plant management are reimbursed in
Reichsmark out of Military Govern-
ment blocked accounts resulting from
the sale of imported food to the Ger-
man population. Thus, when the for-
eign buyer, American, British, Swiss,
Swedish, Dutch, or any other, pays in
dollars or other foreign currency for
German exports, he is indirectly con-
tributing not only to the stabilizing of
the European economy but also is
cutting down on the cost of occu-
pation.”

Problems that harass all travelers in
new countries are discussed one-by-
one in the OMGUS pamphlet. Among
other things, it discusses hotel accom-
modations, whom to cantact, transpor-
tation, telephones, telegraph and cable,
postal facilities, motor transport, POL,
the use of German facilities, funds,
messing medical care, and travel and
contact within Soviet and French
Zones. (Continued to page 12)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Corn Imported for Food

pproximately 50 percent of the

220,000 tons of bread grains being
imported by the Military Governments
of the Combined (US/UK) Area for
feeding German civilians during the
month of April will consist of whole
grain, corn, highly regarded in most
countries outside of Germany as a
palatable and nutritious food. Corn is
known in Germany as maize.

During May and June, it is expected
that 30 to 40 percent of all bread
grains received will be corn which,
mixed with wheat and tye flour, pro-
duces a very acceptable bread. The
Food and Agriculture authorities
pointed out that in most sections of
the Combined Area, corn will com-
prise 30 to 40 percent of the entire
bread ‘and cereal ration, adding a
variety which should be welcome to
the German diet.

Because corn has not been a common
item in the German diet, the following
information has been prepared con-
cerning its composition and use. Ger-
man maize, grown largely in the past
as food for livestock, has not been as
highly developed as the hybrid
varieties of the United States.

Corn has been a staple food item in
many countries of the world for
centuries. In many areas of the United
States whole ground corn meal and
corn flour furnish almost the entire
grain requirement, being used for
bread, rolls, cereals, cakes, and thick-
ening for soups and gravies. In early
American history the pioneers used
corn meal, very roughly ground, and
cooked in water as a mash, fried in
slices when cold, or baked as bread
or rolls. Preparations were simple, salt
and water being the only ingredients
used in addition to the corn.

Corn is also used as animal feed,
but so are barley, oats, and wheat all
of which are prepared for direct human
consumption in Germany. It is a
mistake to regard corn strictly as a
feed fit only for animal use. Potatoes
are fed to hogs in Germany but
potatoes have historically been one of
the major items in the German diet.
Corn is a high quality food suited
just as well for human consumption

6

from the view point of palatibility and
nutrition as wheat or rye. Any mis-
giving about the use of corn as human
food is due to mental prejudice.

The principal difference in corn and
wheat flour are in calories, fat content
and vitamin A. Corn flour has about
twice as much oil content as wheat.
It contains approximately 25 calories
per 100 grams more than high
extraction wheat flour and is a rich
source of vitamin A, which is lacking
in wheat and one of the principal
deficiencies in the German diet.

Recipes for Tasty Dishes

Corn meal will shortly be distributed
on the regular food (naehrmittel)
ration. Although it can be prepared
numerous different ways either as an
individual dish or in combination to
add variety in preparing other foods
on the ration, the following time
tested recipes are suggested:

Corn meal cake ingredients: 1 part
corn meal, 4 parts water, 4 percent
salt. Directions: (1) mix ingredients
and cook until water is absorbed; (2)
pack in shallow pans and bake until
brown, (3) cut into pieces.

Corn naehrmittel ingredients: 1 cup
cold water, 1 cup corn meal, 4 cups
boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt. Direc-
tions: (1) stir cold water into the corn
meal, (2) add mixture to boiling water
(salted) and stir until cooked and
water absorbed (if thinner cereal
desired add more water), (3) serve as
porridge. :

The cold cereal has many uses as it
can be reheated and served with the
gravy of cooked vegetables, or added
to stew or soup as dumplings. The hot
cereal can be packed in a thin layer
in a shallow pan or spread thin on a
board and cut into pieces. The blocks
can be fried or baked brown. Chopped
onions, bits of cooked meat or fish
may be added to improve taste before
pouring the hot cereal in pan for
frying or baking.

The above instructions are based
on years of experience in the United
States. It should be noted that the
recipes do not require any fat, sugar,
or milk for preparation.

28 APRIL 1947

--- Page 10 ---
Re-education Needs
To Help Democracy

Not only must Germany be re-edu-
cated along many lines, but the me-
thod of teaching must be in itself a
demonstration of democratic prin-

=

ciples, said Robert C. Deming in
Stuttgart. State director of adult
education in Connecticut. He is a

member of a group of US educational
consultants inspecting the school
system of Wuerttemberg-Baden,

Mr. Deming said his observations
show that there are certain funda-
mental differences in the manner and
content of teaching in Germany. The
German idea, it seems, is to educate
the masses as soon as possible, so
that a select few intellectuals may
become students of the higher edu-
cational institutions, This, the edu-
cator points out, is the antithesis of
the American idea of lifting the
masses to the highest possible level
of intellectual attainment. In America
it is the greatest good for the greatest
number, in Germany the greatest
good for the smallest number.

Mr. Deming believed that a new
educational philosophy, both in con-
tent and practice, from the kinder-
garten to the university is the only
solution of Germany's problem of
trying to get along with other people
in a peaceful world. He believed that
this teaching must be assisted by
qualified American educators, and
that the American public must realize
this and its importance to Military
Government's mission in Germany.
He believed that adequate personnel
for this work is one of the cheapestsafe-
guards to world peace that America
can purchase at this time, Henceforth
education must be of first importance.

Correction

The photograph used with “First
Post-War Luxury Auto Completed”
on page 14 of Issue No. 87 of 7 April,
was furnished by the Public Relations
Office of the Office of Military Govern-
Ment of Hesse. Credit for the photo
should have been given to PRO OMGH.

28 APRIL 1947

Industrial Revival Noted

The end of the cold spell during
March brought the beginning of the
expected revival of industrial activity,
and production as a whole rose an
average of 17 percent to 34 percent
of the 1936 rate in the US Zone,
according to an announcement of the
Economics Division, OMGUS. ‘This
figure compares with 29 percent in
February, the low point of the cold
weather crisis, and with 32 percent in
January. Production could not regain
its lost ground over night, however,
and March output remained about
23 percent below the peak rate of last
October and November.

During March, hydrogeneration of
electric power rose sharply and all
restrictions on the use of power by
industry were removed. Production
of hard coal in the Ruhr continued its
upward trend, averaging 233,000
metric tons a day. At the same time,
waterways reopened, thus making it
possible to resume a more normal
movement of coal to the US Zone.

The sharpest improvement during
the month was recorded by the optics
and precision instruments industry in
which the index of output more than
doubled, from 11 percent of the 1936
rate in February to 23 percent in
March. This reflected a more than
sixfold increase in camera production
to almost 11,200 units. The chemical
industry operated at about 34 percent
of the 1936 level in March—70 percent
higher than in February—largely be-
cause of a sharp improvement in the
production of calcium carbide. With
more electric power available, carbide
output jumped from 2,592 metric tons
to 13,829 tons.

Other industries which showed
marked gains during the month in-
cluded rubber products, which rose
39 percent of the 1936 rate; leather,
to 31 percent; and stones and earth,
to 10 percent. With practically all
textile plants again running, the index
of textile activity increased to 37 per-
cent of the 1936 average.

Gains ranging between 10 and 20 per-
cent for the month were achieved by
the machinery, electrical equipment,
ceramics, and gas-and-electricity indus-

7

tries, Mining, which had resisted the
general decline during the winter, ad-
vanced seven percent to 66 percent
of the 1936 average. In March, the
paper and pulp industry operated at
a shade higher than in February, or
21 percent of the 1936 average. In the
case of the iron and steel industry
generally, operations in the first two
weeks of the month were adversely
affected by the lingering cold spell,
but improvement was swift in the last
half of March. On an over-all basis,
however, the rate of iron and steel
output in March was virtually un-
changed from that of February which
was 40 percent of 1936.

The only exceptions to the general
upward trend were the lumber and
glass industries. In the former, at
50 percent of the 1936 average, output
fell to the lowest level since Decem-
ber 1945; as recently as last October,
it ran at double the March rate. This
drop reflected several factors of which
the most important were transport
difficulties in the wood and on muddy
country roads. Glass production fell
20 percent as the biggest producer in
the US Zone—Deutsche Tafelglas at
Weiden, Bavaria—was forced to nurse
a small supply of fuel. However, glass
production remained at a high level
in March as compared with prewar,
the index being 82 percent of 1936.

According to all present indications,
output in April should show a further
sharp advance. With the continuance
of more seasonable weather, it is
expected that all of the ground lost
during the winter will have been re-
gained by May.

Channel to French

Denazification officers have been
directed by OMGUS cable V-17173 of
17 April to inform ministers of poli-
tical liberation that all denazification
correspondence addressed to French
authorities in France by Law for Lib-
eration personnel is to be transmitted
to French Liaison offices so that it
may be forwarded to the proper head-
quarters.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
n observer attending a meeting of

German trade union leaders almost
anywhere in the American Zone to-
day would be impressed by the
preponderance of greying heads and
aging faces among those assembled.
It is to help solve this fundamental
problem of the trade unions today—
the lack of young, qualified leaders—
that the old Academy of Labor at
Frankfurt University was reopened
recently. Closed since 1933, this school
formerly trained hundreds of able
labor leaders and educators who must
now furnish the backbone of trade
unionism until young men can take
their places.

Most of these older men were also
leaders in the years before 1933.
During the Nazi regime many of them
paid for their trade union activity by
long years in concentration camps.
Although these confinements and
restrictions weakened them physically
they immediately joined their fellow
workingmen in 1945 when Military
Government authorized the reorgani-
zation of unions which Hitler had
destroyed. It can be understood that
these men were called to high posts
in preference to younger men better
able to carry the burdens of organizing
and operating a trade union. For by
the end of the war, many of the
younger men who in ordinary times
would be approaching the age when
they would be expected to assume
the greatest responsibilities were
either dead or in the custody of the
Allies. Gradually, many who were
prisoners of war were released to
return to their homes and working-
places. But they are handicapped in
their efforts to take the lead in the
work of the unions which they have
joined. The older leaders may lack
youth, but the younger men lack both
experience and training.

Forbidden During Nazi Regime

During 13 years of the Hitler
government Germans were forbidden
to conduct trade union activities. For
the youth of Germany during that
period, there was no opportunity to
take an active part in trade union
meetings or to play a role in the pro-
tection of workers’ health, safety, or
financial interests within the plant.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

rankfurt
demy
ofLabo

Wa

By Albert A. Mavrinac

There was no chance to gain the ex-
perience necessary for good leader-
ship in democratic organizations. At
the same time, while there was no
opportunity for gaining experience in
these practical aspects, there was no
way to study the history of trade
unionism, or to discuss formally under
competent teachers the problems
facing organized workingmen.

This situation has been a source of
concern to officers of Military Govern-
ment and to the German leaders them-
selves. During the early months of
occupation these younger men were
gaining experience in practical union
affairs in their work councils and trade
unions. But their theoretical training
was being neglected. However,
gradually plans for eliminating this
gap in training were taking shape,
along patterns familiar to many of
Germany's present day union leaders.

First Group of Students

The first long step to provide well-
trained and educated union men for
the new workingmen’s organizations
was taken on Saturday, 12 April 1947
when the Academy of Labor was re-

8

opened at the University at Frank-
furt/M.

Sixty men and women are the first
students in the new Academy. They
come from all parts of Germany:
Some 15 are from the British Zone,
three are from the Russian Zone, one
from Berlin, one is from the French
Zone, and the rest are from the
American Zone. Their average age is
29 years. Almost all of them have
held positions in the last 18 month as
shop stewards in their local factories,
or as trade union organizers, or as
minor trade union administrators. All
of them have been selected for this
advanced training because they show
great possibilities for developing into
able leaders. Their expenses are paid
by their local unions and they will be
reimbursed for the wages which they
will lose. In some cases, the employer
has assumed a part of the financial
obligation.

Training for Union Leaders

The Academy of Labor was first
organized in 1921 by the German trade
unions as part of the University of
Frankfurt. It was planned as a higher-

28 APRIL 1947

--- Page 12 ---
Prot. Walter Hallstein, Rector of the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University
(University of Frankfurt) adresses the group attending the reopening of the

Frankfurt Academy of Labor

education training ground for the
unions’ future leaders. Each year,
from 1921 to 1933, some hundred men
and women from all parts of Germany
were given college-level knowledge in
economics, political science, history,
philosophy, psychology, and _ the
fundamentals of trade union ad-
ministration, organization, journalism,
and services.

In 1933, the Academy was closed
by the Hitler government. But in the
meantime, many of the highest Ger-
man trade union leaders had studied
the year-long course, which afforded
not only class-room training but also
an opportunity to apply theories in
jobs of junior administrative im-
portance in trade union headquarters,
newspapers, labor courts, and the
offices of governmental agencies.
Professors at the University of Frank-
furt were used to supplement the staff
of four or five full-time professors on
the rolls of the Academy. Many of the
classes were held in conjunction with
the civil university classes. Today

28 APRIL 1947

Photo from DENA-bild

again, the Academy is working closely
with the University.

In 1933, each student lived as he
wished. Today, the heavily-damaged
city of Frankfurt requires a pooling of
resources. Now, some 35 of the
students are billeted in the former
headquarters of the Frankfurt unions.
Great problems have been overcome
to obtain the necessary stoves, beds,
bedding, eating utensils, and office
equipment. These 60 students in whom
the German trade unions are placing
great confidence are attending classes
at the University of Frankfurt, under
very difficult conditions.

In a few weeks, they will be spend-
ing some of their time in the offices
of the Frankfurter Rundschau, in the
bureaus of the Regional Labor Office,
or assisting in the Chambers of the
judges of the Frankfurt Labor Court.
Thus they will be gaining the practical
and theoretical experience which Ger-
man trade union leaders and MG
officers hope will fit them to carry on
the work of the German trade unions.

9

Education Stressed
At Youth Conference

A three-day conference of German
youth leaders from all parts of Hesse,
the first to be held in the Land in
conjunction with Military Govern-
ment and US Army German Youth
Activities officers, concluded at Ass-
mannshausen with a _ declaration
against a “soft drink-and-baseball”
type of program for German youth.

The German youth officials, who
spoke out for a youth activities plan
based on discussion groups, forums,
movies, and folk dancing, were assured
by American delegates that the US
Army is supporting a program aimed
at educational rather than sports
interest.

Sponsored by the Hessian Land
Youth Committee in conjunction with
the OMGH Youth Acitivities Branch,
the meeting sought to improve the
functioning of Hesse's 43 local youth
councils and lay the groundwork for
a summer camping program. Although
facilities are available to accomodate
a total of 80,000 youngsters for two-
week outings, lack of qualified
counsellors will force a considerable
reduction in this number, while the
shortage of food may close the pro-
gram out entirely.

German delegates felt it inadvisable
to undertake any camping activity this
summer, unless a daily ration of 2,800
calories can be assured.

The majority of the German dele-
gation expressed opposition to the
sponsoring of youth groups by political
parties, allowed under terms of a recent
MG regulation. OMGH Youth Activ-
ities Chief W. Hayes Beall, who out-
lined the new MG youth code, pointed
out that the regulation was merely
permissive, rather than obligatory.

Dr. Erwin Stein, Hessian Minister of
Education, told of his interest in a
widely-diversified youth program with
many types of voluntary youth
organizations participating. He voiced
a conviction that German youth
groups must be led by young persons,
instead of adults. He commended the
MG youth policy and expressed
appreciation for the US Army's con-
tributions.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Hesse’s Token of Gratitude

General Joseph T. McNarney, on retiring as European Theater Com-
mander and Military Governor, receives a painting by Frankfurt artist
Hanny Franke from Hessian Minister President Christian Stock (left)
as a token of Hesse’s gratitude for the General's administration of the
US Zone. Looking on is Walter Kolb, chief mayor of Frankfurt.

Big US Potatoes as Seed.

Large quantities of US seed potatoes
are being distributed for immediate
planting in all the Laender of Western
Germany. Because these potatoes are
much larger than those usually used
for planting in Germany, it was
emphasized by food and agriculture
authorities of US and UK Military
Governments that it is essential that
they should be properly cut into
several pieces before planting. This is
the method invariably followed in the
United States.

The tubers should be cut into cubes
containg at least one eye, the number
depending on the size of the potato,
and the pieces should weigh ap-
proximately 50 to 60 grams. Seed
potatoes may be cut and immediately
planted with good results, or a
preferable method is to cut the seed
two to three days before planting, and
spread the cut seed on the floor of
a fairly dark, well ventilated room
not more than 15 centimeters deep.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

This method callouses the cut surface
and eliminates any decay of the seed
pieces in the soil.

The import of these seed potatoes is
intended strictly for planting purposes,
and they should not be used under
any circumstances for eating. Any
Land that authorizes seed potatoes for
eating potatoes will be penalized by
having the allocation diverted to an-
other area where they will be used for
seed purposes. It is intended that
when these seed potatoes are delivered
to farmers, an equivalent quantity
of retained indigenous degenerated
planting potatoes be delivered for con-
sumption by non-self-suppliers.

The US seed potatoes come from
Maine and Minnesota and their con-
dition upon arrival is excellent. The
varieties scheduled for delivery are
the Irish Cobbler, Katadhin, Chippewa,
Sebago, and Green Mountain.

These potatoes are being imported
in order to realize plans for a pro-

10

jected 40 percent increase in the area
devoted to potato crops for 1947, to
more than 3,185,000 acres for the
Combined Area Altogether the 1946/47
import program of seed potatoes for
the Combined Area includes 175,000
tons from the United States and
325,000 tons from Czechoslovakia, Den-
mark, Norway, and the Netherlands,
at a cost of approximately 22 million
dollars.

The distribution of the seed potatoes
by the German Executive Committee
in Stuttgart was based on’ expanded
acreage by the Laender for 1947, and
the rate of normal seed deterioration
within the respective Laender.

Frankfurt Listed
as Restricted City

Frankfurt is designated as a
restricted city, according to an EUCOM
cable. All clearance for duty travel
to Frankfurt will be secured by
written correspondence to Head-
quarters, European Command, such
as message form, letter, or TWK. All
requests will indicate the inclusive
dates of the visit in Frankfurt, the
purpose for travel, and the section
or unit to which the individual will
report.

When individuals performing travel
desire to be accompanied by their
dependents, the request will so in-
dicate. Accommodations for depen-
dents will be given a low priority.
It is suggested that private accom-
modations be made for all dependents
accompanying officers, due to the
critical shortage of space. No accom-
modations will be granted unless
prior clearance is arranged. Emer-
gency clearances may be arranged by
telephoning Frankfurt Red Line 13
or Frankfurt 31245,

No accommodations are available
for leave personnel. Request for
clearances for the purpose of leave
will not be granted. Leave personnel
must make private arrangements for
accomodations. Transient accommoda-
tions will be granted, if available,
for leave personnel transiting Frank-
furt en route to Switzerland. No prior
arrangements will be made for such
personnel,

28 APRIL 1947

--- Page 14 ---
CONFIDENCE EXPRESSED IN BRITISH MG

Officials will Solve Ruhr Situation, Military Governor Says at Press Con-
ference; Progress Made at Moscow and Future for Germany are Defined

The most recent developments con-
cerning Military Government in Ger-
many were explained by General
Lucius D. Clay, Military Governor, at
his press conference 10 April 1947 in
Berlin. Salient portions of his com-
ments, with clarifying inserts from
correspondents’ questions in paren-
theses, follow.

lhe wheat import situation (in Ger-

many) has improved quite sub-
stantially. (Whether or not we must
further increase our imports in the fall
depends on) production data on what
the actual harvest will be.

(Referring to the recent Ruhr coal
strikes) I think we can say we look on
(these disturbances) with very grave
alarm but we have every confidence
that British Military Government, with
the aid of German officials, will solve
the situation... If there is any way
we can help them we would be glad
to do so but they haven't indicated
any apprehension of inability on their
part to handle the situation.

(As to the report that no meat or fats
have been received in the Ruhr from
Bavaria within the last two and a half
months), there have been substantial
fats forthcoming. I think they are
going to start coming but they haven't
reached their allocations. There are
a good many reasons—bad ‘weather
and transportation have made it diffi-
cult for delivery. The present difficulty
in currency has made it difficult to
make collections. It is not an easy
problem. Bavaria has not made its
quota. It is making another real effort
to do it at the present moment. How-
ever, on Bavaria's behalf .. . its per-
centage of collection is just as good
as the other Laenders...

Hope of Betier Trade

I doubt very much that the farmer
who is hoarding the fat has hoarded it
because of federalism as centrali-
zation. I think he wants his fat be-
cause he thinks he can trade it for
something better than money. That's
what we have to break up by the
authorities and also to develop the

28 APRIL 1947

will of the people to share in this
great deficiency. Now, we are making
a renewed effort to develop that kind
of administration and to try to obtain
the full support of the German people
in order to meet the need of their
fellow Germans.

(In the event of federalism of Ger-
many) I think we have to recognize
the officials in all Laender whether
elected or appointed with a proviso,
of course, for early elections after the
provisional government was establish-

Gardening Hint

Hearty laughs are occasionally
generated by the questions and
answers at the Military Gover-
nor's press conferences. From his
recent meeting with the corre-
spondents came this one:

Correspondent: There has been
a lot of talk in Moscow about
the possibility of Germany being
split down the middle. Are we
making any concrete plans for
facing this alternative?

Military Governor: I just went
out to plant some garden seeds
in Berlin yesterday.

Correspondent: Were they pe-
rennials or annuals?

ed... Our position has been for estab-
lishment of a provisional government
and early elections afterwards. Of
course, the whole matter would come
under quadripartite supervision and
regulations ... I am willing to admit
that the German has to make that
decision (as to what political party he
will have in power) for himself and I
don't know of aay other way to
approach federalization. After all you
have a great deal of give and take on
the problems of working out a pro-
visional government and I don't think
you can write all the rules in advance.

(As for General Marshall's Moscow
solution to the German reparations
problem allotting a very limited
amount from current production), the
theory is that if we left more in-
dustrial plants in Germany to justify

11

teparations, that these nations that
have been promised reparations for
damages which would no longer get
these plants, would be paid in kind by
their products, theoretically leaving
the plant to make the products avail-
able without affecting the import-ex-
port program... The opening up of
zonal barriers would greatly stimulate
production. It (General Marshall's
plan) wasn’t so much a compromise
Program as it was a desire for com-
pensating reparations by a capital
equipment which might be used be-
cause of an increase in the level of
industry.

Investigation Made

(Replying to the reports that anti-
Semitic statements have been made by
German officials in the zone) I have
investigated that and the statements
were alleged to have been made in a
closed and small political meeting at
which, I have been advised by some
sources, statements were made as
stated in the New York Times article.
Dr. Josef Baumgartner himself denies
having made the statements. His
version of what he said is entirely
different and he has supported it by
quite a number of affidavits from some
of the small group that attended the
meeting ... I am contemplating no
further action at this time on the re-
marks as stated because I consider the
question one that has not been proved.
I accept Dr. Baumgartner's denial un-
less we obtain additional information
and evidence which we have not ob-
tained. I must say that we have re-
ports that did corroborate the New
York Times article. However, the
reports from the people who attended
the meeting—a very small number—
are very conflicting in fact. They are
exactly opposed to each other.

Increase in Industry Seen

(In forecasting whether or not Ger-
many’s situation with regard to food
and coal will improve by next winter)
I could if I were quite assured that
the German miner is going to do his

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
part. Our coal production is on the
way up and as coal goes, so goes Ger-
many. One day's losses as a result in
the number of miners going to work
is going to have a very serious effect
on the Germans themselves during the
coming months and cold weather.

Insofar as our merging with the
British Zone is concerned that’s going
to be pushed just as vigorously as we
can but we expect that whether we
get an agreement (at the Moscow
Conference) or not, there will be a
very substantial increase in industry
which require action and I think that
in the fall and out of that there will
be an improvement of present stand-
ards of living. (That prediction is)
based almost entirely on coal and on
the food imports we expect to bring
in... We are, of course, subject to
whatever over-all shortages there may
be throughout the world, if there are
any this coming fall, but I was think-
ing more about the appropriations of
money to buy the food which is the
first obstacle to overcome. We have
not yet had our appropriations but
we are hopeful that there will be
funds and that we will be in reason-
ably good shape that way, too...1!
agree (that it depends not only on
the Ruhr miner but on Congress in
Washington).

Amicable Solution Desired

I hope that we will be able to work
out a satisfactory relationship between
coal that is exported and coal that
goes to the German economy, giving
the German economy a substantial
percentage of increased production as
an incentive ... and to provide the
type of economy that will provide a
greater production. I hope within this
range we'll be able to work out an
amicable solution with all countries.
I think we are making progress
although we have to say to that: Are
you ever going to satisfy anyone in
this Europe of coal shortages? No one
is going to be happy. Whatever coal
is being exported in Germany goes
to the European Coal Organization
which in turn divides the coal which
goes to several countries on a per-
centage basis. What the percentages
of these countries will be, I do not
know... I think that after certain
amounts are met in the German econ-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

omy to provide it with the where-
with-all for the import-export program
and for a reasonable self-sustaining
economy, greater amounts will be ex-
ported to get the dollar revenue that
comes from it. I doubt (that the re-
cent miner's strike in the Ruhr had
any effect on undermining the prestige
of the occupation forces). I think that
if our British colleagues had felt so
they would have taken appropriate
action. You have a real problem of
judgment as to what is within the
limits of the democracy which we
have promised to the German people
and what becomes acts of defiance.
We have enough of the mailed-fist to
use if we have to, but I certainly hope
we don't have to. We have to re-
member that if we are presenting
democracy we have to give it some
basis on which to grow. The difference
between a democratic expression of
dissatisfaction with conditions and
deliberate sabotage and resistance is
a difficult one which can only be
determined by judgment...

I hope that these Germans who were
involved will appreciate, and I think
that they do appreciate, that those who
really suffer from it will be their own
people. If these losses are five hundred
thousand tons of coal, that is just so
much more than the people don't get...

I think it’s desirable that (the US and
British Zones) come together as closely
as possible. You don't get full economic
unity without political unity... I would
say (that this merger) would be quite
a decided success. Every day I look at
the additional contracts that will allow
the increased movement of coal and I
become encouraged...

(As for Germany as a whole) There
is so much misunderstanding of what
the word “federalization” means . . .
I am sure that the US Government
will not agree to accept a German
government, central government, with
other than defining powers and with
those defining powers limited to the
powers essential to a modern govern-
ment. All other powers would have to
be reserved to the several states. In
other words, a decentralized govern-
mental authority. That is what a
federal government means to us but I
have found that the term “federal”
government means other things to
other people.

12

Buyers Guide

(continued from page 6)

The use of German facilities, for
example, is made quite clear:

“Current regulations do not permit
you to hire a German representative,
set up a German office, or otherwise
make arrangements for permanent
operating facilities.

“It has been determined, however,
that in providing for the essential
needs of visitors, use will be made
wherever possible of civilian German
vehicles, drivers, clerical assistance,
and similar facilities and personnel.
Visitors will pay the standard civilian
rates directly to German agencies or
individuals.” ,

Currency restrictions

As for funds, “You are cautioned
that the importation of American
Dollars or any other currency into the
American Zone of occupied Germany
is positively prohibited and that if such
funds are in your possession they must
be converted immediately upon your
arrival into Military Payment Certif-
icates which is the only acceptable
medium of exchange for Americans in
Germany and which may be obtained
through any US Army Finance
Officer.”

An “occupational vocabulary” which
defines everything from “ACA” to
“non-transactional mail” is included in
the Guide. For persons unfamilar with
the many MG, bizonal, and quadri-
partite organizations in Germany such
an explanation should save much con-
fusion and many moments of valuable
time. The vocabulary even includes
“Bezirk” where the Guide assures the
reader “This is not a state of mind.
It is a county district corresponding
somewhat to our borough.”

New Postal Ruling

The War Department has advised
that effective 1 May parcel post ad-
dressed to oversea APO's will be
accepted for mailing by all US Post
Offices without the requirement of
a written request from the addressee,
and without limitation as to the fre-
quency of mailing.

28 APRIL 1947

--- Page 16 ---
Party Press

Der Mannheimer Morgen opposed
the creation of a party press:

“A man who worked for the dem-
ocratic press for almost 30 years
should be allowed to ask the gentle-
men in Stuttgart: “Did we not have
party papers once?”... Certainly,
there were a few excellent SPD pa-
pers... The same can be said of the
Center parties, the Conservatives, the
Democrats, and also the KPD had re-
markable papers. But how did the
figure of subscribers of all these or-
gans correspond to the figure of votes
of the individual parties in the
elections?”

“As a model example we can name
the Vorwaerts which had less than
100,000 readers in the capital of the
Reich, while its party got more than
ten times as many votes! What was
the reason for it? Because these
papers were mainly “official gazettes”
of the board of the parties, com-
munication organs, and means for
training functionaries... And this
press was disregarded abroad. Public
opinion in Germany was not re-
presented by party papers but by the
independent democratic press."

Bitter Lesson

An editorial in the Main-Post
(Wuerzburg) reflected the despon-
dency frequently expressed in the
German press. Entitled “Despair,” the
editorial said:

“We Germans have to learn a bitter
lesson. This lesson is based on the
awareness that all the misery and all
the distress of the present time are
the last consequences of a policy
which an overwhelming part of the
German people once cheered. By the
misery of our everyday life we have
arrived at a pathological condition
bordering on persecution mania,
which does not allow us to recognize
the point of view of the others,
namely the victors.”

“The problem of the victors con-
sists in leaving us adequate pos-
sibilities for a decent life and in

28 APRIL 1947

preventing Germany's  peace-time
potential, that is to say her material
resources, as well as the intelligence
and efficiency of her population,
from ever again becoming a war
potential threatening the whole
world. Only unteachable and ma-
levolent people among the Germans
can say, after the sections and de-
clarations of the victors, that they
desire to exterminate the van-
gquished.”’

Problem of Youth

Der Mannheimer Morgen published
the final results of its youth essay
contest in which 500 participated and
said in on appraisal:

“The great surprise: The generation
to whom the ‘We’ ought to mean
everything, unexpectedly plunges for
the “I... In its majority youth is
skeptical and not optimistic. That is
understandable—what youth has
learned and believed until recently
not only lies destroyed, but, more im-
portant, is recognized in its hollow-
ness and rejected by youth itself.
Thoughtless people misrepresent this
skepticism as Nazism. It is nothing of
the sort...

“Their excess of doubt and bitter-
ness, on the surface, is directed
against all that calls itself ‘party’ and
has mass character. All that is uni-
form, all that demands discipline and
subordination, all that limits the indi-
vidual (and be it to its own advant-
age), all that maintains state and bu-
reaucracy, is heinous to them. And
yet this rebellious attitude only shows
a new surface to the observer, but in
itself waits for new fertility. This
youth is not anti-socialistic, few are
anti-Marxist, even fewer of them are
‘pro.’ The great slogan of youth...
is “Life’/. 4).

“The search for the secure life finds
expression in the essay of the young
medical student B.D.Maier (third
prize winner): ‘The abyss (that threa-
tens us) is not crime. It is a much
bigger, much blacker hole: Nameless-
ness. New leaders, new recipes, new

13

youth is seeking leads from human
being to human being. Everybody who
is without home (Heimat) is search-
ing one.’ This search, this burning,
undiscouraged search of 500 young
people is one of the greatest ex-
periences one can have. No document
of world literature has ever so moved
MO 5:6)

Bidault Praised

The Neue Presse (Coburg) examined
the results to date of the Moscow Con-
ference and hoped that the contro-
versies at Moscow may at least
produce unification of policies in all
four zones. It praised Bidault’s pro-
posal for German immigration in
France as follows:

“This plan made an evident im-
pression, and if it should lead to a
voluntary equalization of populations
in Europe, then Moscow would mark
the start of a sensible pan-European
population policy.”

After examining the reparations
questions the editorial concluded that
“the complications evidently grow
as we get farther away from the
second World War... The Moscow
Conference could not be expected to
solve everything by one sweep, but
it is depressing that after four weeks
there is not one single clear decision
that at least would ease the psycho-
logical tension.”

Complaint of Farmers

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) printed a complaint
of the farmers:

“We, the farmers, complain... We
raise our voices because the farmers
cannot get urgently needed consumer
goods in a regular way. Prices which

are paid ... are lower than several
years ago ... Under such circum-
stances it is unbearable that the

farmer con only rarely buy scythes,
tools, household goods and other
agricultural implements for money!"

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Repatriation Offer

esumption of the 60-day plan as a
fern incentive for United
Nations displaced persons was an-
nounced by General Lucius D. Clay,
Commander-in-Chief of the European
Command.

General Clay outlined the plan in
a proclamation addressed to displaced
persons stating that beginning 15 April,
a supply of food sufficient for 60 days
is to be available to every eligible
displaced person in of out of camp
who decides to return home volun-
tarily. This food is to be given in
addition to the regular ration for the
journey.

This provision is made by the
United States Government through the
United States Army in Germany. The
food is to be carried on the trains
with the repatriates and is to be in
the form of three cases of 10-in-1
rations per person regardless of age.

A food bonus was offered to Polish
displaced persons during a_ three-
month period last year during which
48,000 were repatriated from the US
Zone to Poland. The present food
offer extends to other nationalities
and Jews are not excluded. This plan
is to be carried out in conformity with
the established American policy that
repatriation is on a voluntary basis.

United Nations displaced persons,
in and out of camp in the zone cur-
rently number 530,000. Of the major
groups, 153,000 are Poles (of which
53,000 are Polish-Ukrainian); 153,000
are Jews and 104,000 are Balts.

General Clay’s proclamation to
United Nations displaced persons is
as follows:

“I take this opportunity, as Com-
mander-in-Chief of the European
Command, to direct this message in
repatriation to all United Nations
displaced persons living in the United
States Zone of Germany.

“Last October the United States
Government, through the United States
Army, offered to Polish displaced
persons in the US Zone who accepted
voluntary repatriation an extra food
ration sufficient for a 60-day period
following their arrival in Poland. This
program of repatriation progressed
smoothly and satisfactorily but the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

The handsome early Gothic tower
of the Stiftskirche at Aschaffenburg,
Bavaria, which is now under repairs

for minor artillery and concussion
damages, is shown in the photograph.

The church is a Romanesque build-
ing, enlarged and altered in Gothic

Restoration of Monuments

and. Baroque periods. It contains an
important group of sculptures by Peter
Vischer and a famed painting, Lamen-
tation for Christ, by Gruenewald.
The photograph was furnished by
the Monuments Office, MFA&A Sec-
tion, Economics Division OMGUS.

early onslaught of a severe winter
perhaps caused many to delay depart-
ure until spring.

“Beginning 15 April, the United
States Government again offers a
60-day supply of food to each dis-
placed person accepting voluntary re-
patriation. This time the offer is
available to all eligible United Nations
displaced persons who decide volun-
tarily to return home.

“Those of you who choose to
Tremain here in the US Zone of Ger-

14

many, rather than return home, face
uncertain conditions. Assistance from
the American people through the
United States forces here cannot con-
tinue indefinitely. The extent of
assistance which will be available
through an international organization
is likewise uncertain.

“I hope that you will take advant-
age of this opportunity and volunteer
to go home this spring rather than
face the uncertainties of continued res-
idence in Germany.”

28 APRIL 1947

--- Page 18 ---
PRESS and

Reparations Documents

The New York Herald Tribune in
an article by Walter Kerr on repara-
tions from Germany said there are
only three basic documents authoriz-
ing the Allies to take reparations from
Germany, and none provided for repa-
rations from current production, which
the Soviet authorities have been tak-
ing for more than a year.

Potsdam authorized plant removals,
with the Russians to take factories
from their zone and the three Western
powers to take factories from their
zones. The Soviet government was to
satisfy Polish claims. The United
States, Great Britain, and France were
to pool what they took for the benefit
of eighteen Allied states. In addition,
the Soviet Union was to obtain a per-
centage of plants declared available
for reparations in the western areas.

A second document fixed the level

of German industry and provided for
the destruction or allocation as repa-
tations of factories not necessary for
German needs. A third document was
the Paris agreement which gave each
of the Allied governments entitled to
share in reparations from the western
zones a percentage share of the total
value.
None of the Big Four has stuck to a
literal interpretation of these agree-
ments, but the extent of American
violations appears to be relatively
small. The Moscow radio has accused
the United States of taking monetary
gold found in Germany by American
forces. In fact, it was distributed as
restitution among the countries partic-
ipating in the pool in proportion to
their respective losses of gold through
looting or by wrongful removal to
Germany. The United States received
none of it. F

The Moscow radio also accused the
United States of taking reparations in
the form of merchant ships. But like
the gold, any claim to which the So-
viet Union renounced in the Potsdam
agreement, these ships were distrib-
uted. by Allied agreement. The Rus-

28 APRIL 1947

sians, British, and Americans first di-
vided them equally. Then the British
and Americans divided their shares
with sixteen other Allied nations.

Soviet irritation with American
reparations policy began two years
ago at Yalta and increased a little less
than a year ago when General Clay
announced a stoppage of reparations
deliveries from the American zone, He
was unwilling to carry out this obli-
gation of Potsdam until the other
powers were prepared to carry out its
other provisions. That stopped plant
shipments not only to the Soviet
Union but to the western Allies, or at
least the impression was created that
it had.

Such, however, was not the case.

Plants previously listed for distri-
bution were shipped. The ban only
applied to new allocations, Thus out
of seventy-five factories declared
available for reparations from the
western zones, eight and one-third
continued to be shipped to the Soviet
Union and sixty-six and two-thirds
were turned over to the Inter-Allied-
Reparations Agency, with headquar-
ters in Brussels, which was established
to distribute to the eighteen Allied
states the percentages they were to
get under the Paris agreement.

Of the plants going to Russia three
were shipped from the American zone
or are in the process of shipment,

Reparations shipments also were
continued under a modification in the
Clay policy, issued last October. He
finally agreed to send fifty-eight mil-
lion Reichsmarks worth of machinery
from war plants, 75 percent to go to
the agency in Brussels and 25 percent
to the Soviet Union. This included
lathes, grinders, drills, presses, con-
veyors, and other general-purpose
equipment.

Furthermore, the Americans made
available to all Allied states the tech-
nical know-how and patent papers
which a government agency, Field In-
telligence Agency, Technical, found
in Germany. This information is sold
for the printing costs, and Amtorg, the

15

Soviet Trading pol
the biggest customer so far?

It appears, however, that General
Clay did not stop reparations to the
extent indicated in his announcement
a year ago, and a procedure permitted
thereafter is open to question by close
readers of the Potsdam and Paris
agreements...

It is considered doubtful whether
any power will attempt to force a full
explanation of all reparations taken
since the end of the war. The Ameri-
cans believe that the Russians will be
most sensitive to a thorough examin-
ation of the subject, and they are
inclined to doubt that the Soviet
charges are intended to open the door
for every one to see what has been
going on.

Substitute Soles

With artificial materialé consti-
tuting 41 percent of the shoe sole
materials produced in the US Zone
of Germany in 1946, MG officials have
announced that the ultimate goal in
this field is to reach 100 percent
substitution of artificial for natural
leather in the manufacture of shoe
soles for civilian footwear.

During the war much natural leather
in Germany was devoted to military
uses; and with the present world
leather shortage providing an export
market for fine natural leather pro-
ducts from Germany, maximum utili-
zation of composition soles of plastic
material is planned, Foreign shoe
manufacturers have shown much
interest in the progress made thus
far by the Germans in this field, some
of them believing that development
of a good leather substitute could
provide sufficient material for full
scale shoe production during any
world-wide leather shortage.

Artificial sole leather substitutes
are of two major types: those with
polyvinylchoride base and those with
buni base. The former comprised 62.5
percent of sole leather substitutes
manufactured in 1946; the remaining
37.5 percent were from buna base.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Official Instructions

Accounting for Lost, Damaged, or
Destroyed Property, SOP No. 100, Hq
EUCOM, 7 April 1947.

Civilian Uniform Regulations, AG
332.31 (PO), OMGUS, 9 April 1947.
Repeats provisions of EUCOM Cir-
cular No. 60 of. 1 May 1946 and
directs compliance,

Fiscal Station Code, AG 130 BFD-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 11 April 1947. Cor-
rects number for Landsberg Air Base.

Redesignation of Bulk Allotment
Unit (Non T/O), AG 322 GCT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 12 April 1947, Concerns
7710th Theater Engineer Training
Center.

Identification Symbols, AG 200.2
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 April 1947. Re-
places USFET letter of 20 December
1946 and EUCOM letter of 15 March
1947.

Prohibition of Excessive Concen-
tration of German Economic Power,
General Orders No. 35, OMGUS, 16
April 1947. Designates Decartelization
Branch, Economics Division, as “De-
signated Agency” under MG Law
No. 56.

Implementation of Control Council
Law No. 51, Amendment to Law
No. 14 — Motor Vehicle Tax Law,
AG 010.6 (FD), OMGUS, 17 April 1947.

Implementation of Control Council
Directive No. 42, “Interzonal Travel,”
US/USSR Zones, AG 010.6 (IA),
OMGUS, 17. April 1947.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS, 18
April 1947,

Revised Indigenous Personnel Au-
thorization, AG 091.714 (CO), OMGUS,
19 April 1947.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the origi-
nating headquarters.

MG’s Task (Cont'd from page 4)

in the US Zone was approximately 20
percent of 1936. As the year pro-
gressed we got our blast furnaces and
some steel furnaces in operation. We
made some deals for raw materials,
particularly from the British and
French Zones, and by November...
we were up to 44 percent of 1936. In
other words, the industrial activity in
the US Zone more than doubled dur-
ing last year."

“Then we ran into one of the most
severe winters in Germany in 50
years. Canals froze up and a dilapi-
dated transportation system almost
completely broke down. During the
period of January and February, with
no let-up in the cold weather, our
policy frankly was to divert the avail-
able coal and transportation for food
to keep the German people alive. Our
industrial activity declined to 29 per-
cent of 1936 in February...

“At the present time due to the
fact that by part-time employment,
even though it was for only a few
days in several weeks, our factories
and mill organizations in the US Zone
are intact and we are resuming in-
dustrial activity rapidly. As coal is
now being transported by water and
as hydro-electric power, particularly
in Bavaria, is now plentiful, in March
we were back to 35 or 36 percent of
1936 and we expect in April to get
back to the high month of last year.”

“To estimate the future is difficult.
It is entirely dependent upon two
things — the availability of coal and
the transportation system. At the
present time we are mining in the
Ruhr area approximately 225,000 to
238,000 tons a day, which is just half
of the prewar output. If coal pro-
duction can be increased to our ex-
pected goal of 300,000 tons this year,
it will make possible a broad gain on
the industrial front which will greatly
help in the first phase of our three-
year plan to make Germany self-suffi-
cient and therefore no longer a burden
to the people of the United States.”

D. P. Griswold, Director of the In-
ternal Affairs and Communications
Division, said the health of the Ger-
man population is “surprisingly good”
despite general undernourishment and

16

the low calory level. He urged Ameri-
can industry to Assist in sending spe-

“cialist personnel to US Government

oversea service, “if this worldwide
battle is to be won."

Restitution Authority

Authorization for field offices to
return to German agencies all works
of art and cultural materials presently
held in MG control is’ given in
OMGUS directive AG 007 (ED) of
3 April 1947. The German agencies
must have facilities for the proper
protection and preservation ofthe
items returned to them, and. will
execute what is known as a “Custody
Receipt” in three copies for all articles
received.

Privately owned works of art and
cultural materials will be released to
German agencies for return to their
owners, but with the understanding,
expressed in writing, that the owners
shall not damage, destroy, give away,
sell or loan any of the articles with-
out the approval of the German
agency, which in turn must first obtain
the approval of Military Government.

Certain categories of works of art
and cultural materials are excepted
from this order and will remain in MG
custody. These are: materials wrong-
fully acquired in territories occupied
by the Germans, and therefore the
subject of restitution; materials of a
Nazi and militaristic nature; and
materials which belonged to Nazi
organizations.

Praise for American Aid

“The American aid offer to Greece
is nothing else than a rescue at the
last minute,” advised the British-
licensed Socialdemocrat in Berlin. It
said that Truman's offer is a “large-
minded one” and has found a “lively
consent among far circles in the
United States.”

The paper also advised that the
aid has been welcomed by Greece
and stated that the offer is in the
same line with the strong support
given by America to make the United
Nations organization effective.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF