--- Page 2 ---
ica els Rededasbheubhs NUMBER 86 / 31 MARCH 1947

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG
OBER ~

BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG
GIESSEN LAUTERBACH
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN
QBERTAUNUS| er,

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

DARMSTAD’
BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH
\TAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
EIDELBERG)

om
a ie

BOUBLINGEN : ;

--- Page 4 ---
0
INFORMATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Administration and Staff Standing Operating Procedure

Field Inspection of Information and Education Activities

Reception and Accomodation of US Businessmen visiting Berlin .
Extension of Overseas Tour

Qualifications for Enlistment of Former Officers, Warrant Officers,
and Flight Officers oo

Military Uniform Regulations .

Misuse of Special Service Supplies

Passover Observance

Observance of Army Day .

Marriage to Germans

Field Reports Originating at Land Level .

Transmission of Information to be Subsequently Declassitied
Transfer of Property Audit Responsibility .

American Red Cross 1947 Funds Campaign .

Impounding of US Army Vehicles Not Displaying 1947 US sill
License Plates, After Midnight 31 March 1947 5 0 O70
Detail of Officers in Inspector General’s Department .

Rations and Messing .

Currency Conversion

Disposal of Surplus Property in the Occupied Zone, Germany
Statistical Form No. MG/PS/13/F Revised March 1947

Command Lines

40-Hour Workweek for OMGUS Civilian US and Allied Neutral
Employees : : oO

Office Hours

Funds of Clubs and Organizations Composed of Personnel not Subject
to Military Law .

Staff Memo. No 9
10 Feb 1947. OMGUS

AG 333 GCT-AGO
17 Feb 1947, USFET

Staff Memo. No. 11
20 Feb 1947, OMGUS

AG 210.31 SSP-AGO
3 Mar 1947, USFET

AG 340 GAP-AGO
4 Mar 1947, USFET

AG 420 GAP-AGO
4 Mar 1947, USFET

AG 400 SSP-AGO
4 Mar 1947, USFET

AG 006 GAP-AGO
5 Mar 1947, USFET

AG 006 GAP.AGO
5 Mar 1947, USFET

5 Mar 1947, USFET

AG 010.6 (CO)

6 Mar 1947, OMGUS
AG 380.01 ASA-AGO
6 Mar 1947, USFET
Staff Memo No. 13

6 Mar 1947, OMGUS
AG 080 GAP-AGO

7 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 451 GDS-AGO

7 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 210.6 GAP-AGP- B
7 Mar 1947. USFET
Circular No. 18

8 Mar 1947, USFET
Circular No. 19

9 Mar 1947, USFET
SOP No. 86

12 Mar 1947, USFET
AG 010.6 (1A)

13 Mar 1947, OMGUS
Staff Memo. No. 14

15 Mar 1947, OMGUS
AG 230.44 (CO)

15 Mar 1947, OMGUS
Staff Memo. No 15

17 Mar 1947, OMGUS
AG 123 (CO)

17 Mar 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Phote

DP. READING ROOM — The picture on this
week's cover is a scene in the reading room
of fhe DP Camp at Zeilsheim; where books
and magazines are available to help members
of the camp pass long hours.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

“New Standards for German Nursing” was
Prepared by Miss Lorena J. Murray, Chief of
‘Nursing Affairs, Public Health Branch, IA & C
Division, OMGUS. The story explains the prog-
ress currently being made by the nursing pro-
Aession in Germany toward democratic organi-
tation und advanced education and techniques.

Materia! for the story on ceramics was pre-
pared by John N. Warde, Ceramics Specialist
of the Consumer Goods Section, Industry Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS. “Bavarian China
for Export” considers the importance: of that
Industry in the bizonal export program, and
explains the problems involved in re-establishing
the large-scale production of Bavaria’s famous
Chinaware and pottery.

The: article “on Property Control Branch,
Finance Division, OMGUS, explains the work
Of the Branch and ifs field offices in controlling
and. Safeguarding properties in Germany owned
by United Nations nationals.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

New Standards for German Nursing
Property Control
Bavarian China for Export

Approach to Sympathy
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE

11
14

16
21
23

--- Page 7 ---
FOR

G~™ nurses, for the first time in his-
tory, are considering banding together
to guide their profession to higher nursing
standards.

Generally speaking, the Public Health
Branch of OMGUS has found that German
nurses are well trained in the practical as-
pects of their work. They are conscientious,
hard-working, and self-sacrificing. But they
tend to emphasize the spirit of service, while
in the United States nurses try to emphasize
the art and science of nursing as well.
Military Government, therefore, hopes to
guide the profession toward more democratic
methods of organization, which in turn are
expected to develop German nursing into a
more skilled, scientific profession.

In Germany, the nursing services are divid-

ed into five main groups: The Caritas, the
Deaconesses, the Red Cross, the free nurses,
and the city nurses. The Catholic, or Caritas,
and the Deaconess, or Protestant, groups are
again divided each into groups of women
who have taken a religious vow and belong
to the church, and those who do not take a
vow but are trained as nurses by the church.
Upon graduation, the latter are at liberty to
seek their own employment if desired, or to
give up the profession at any time. In the
Catholic church these nurses are known as
the Free Catholic Nurses, and in the Protes-
tant churches, as Diakonie Verein. The Free

A German nurse is shown teaching handicraft to a young amputee;
at homes and hospitals for cripples and amputees, the part played
by nurses in re-establishing selt-reliance is an important one.
Photo by PRO OMGUS

--- Page 8 ---
Two young Germans who have had their hands amputated receive instruction in
mechanical drawing from a nurse at the Oscar-Helene-Heim in Berlin-Dahlem

Catholic Nurses comprise a new organization,
started in 1937, when women were forbidden
under the Nazi regime to enter the religious
order or convents.

About three-fourths of the institutional
nurses in Germany are organized and func-
tion under the Motherhouse system. The
Motherhouse is an organized sisterhood with
a home that offers refuge for members who
are ill, unemployed, or retired, and is directed
by a Mother Superior. The Motherhouse
association arranges the nurse’s entire per-
sonal life; it trains her professionally, it
obtains work for her, and it collects her
salary. In turn, it furnishes her uniforms
and pin money, and offers her security and
protection for life. The Catholic sisters,
Protestant deaconesses, and Red Cross nurses
all function under Motherhouses. There are
42 Motherhouses in the US Zone, each with
400 to 1,400 members. They are conducting
schools of nursing and procuring work con-

tracts for graduate and student nurses. Nearly
all nurses under this Motherhouse system are
employed.

Nurses who resign from Motherhouses or
graduate from independent schools of nurs-
ing are called free nurses and are organized
in a nurses’ association known as the Agnus-
Karll Verband. The NSDAP recruited
volunteers for the NS Brown nurses from
the free nurse group and when they did not
get enough volunteers, they took in the as-
sociation in toto (1941). As a result, their
funds have been blocked, their property con-
fiseated and a high percentage have lost their
contracts because of political affiliations.
Many are still unemployed.

In the US Zone, considerable headway has
been made in reorganizing the nursing pro-
fession. Schools of nursing have been de-
nazified and reopened, with some 83 function-
ing in the US Zone. Two types of courses
are offered, one for general nurses, and one

Photo!by PRO OMGUS

--- Page 9 ---
for children’s nurses. Both are two-year
courses with 300 hours of theory. In order
to enter, applicants must have completed the
eighth grade and have worked as a domestic
helper for one year. There are no schools or
courses for advanced nursing. In addition,
nursing councils have been established in
each Land and are beginning to function; a
nurse has been appointed in each Land de-
partment to be in charge of nursing affairs;
and the Red Cross sisterhoods and the Free
Nurse associations have been reorganized on
democratic lines up to the Land level.

An American civilian nurse from OMGUS
Public Healih Branch spends a large share
of her time in the field observing, advising,
and reporting on the activities of some 32,042
nurses and 4,878 midwives in the US Zone.
Public health nursing, also under her guid-
ance, is done by women who are educated in

A nurse at the Oscar-Helene-Heim in Berlin-Dahlem checks
on the needs of two youngsters in one“ot 'the home's wards.

schools for social workers, and are attached
to health departments as medical social work-
ers. Some of them are graduate nurses, but
many of them only have a prerequisite of six
months to a year’s work in a hospital. Visit-
ing nursing, or hourly bedside nursing in
homes, usually is done by nurses from relig-
ious orders.

ADVISORY COUNCILS CREATED

Since the end of the war the nursing or-
ganizations mentioned above have met and
discussed major nursing problems as they
apply to each group. Each organization
wishes to maintain its own identity but

_ wishes to set standards and prepare laws

and policies on nursing so that uniformity
ean be reached. An advisory Nursing Coun-
cil has been created in each Land. The coun-
cil is composed of members of each nursing

Photo by PRO OMGUS

--- Page 10 ---
organization elected by the nuases thermelves.
The nurses ame aware of the need for such a
body since political interference in the pest
few years was great and puessure still is
being exerted. Although Army nurses in each
Land were responsible for recognition of the
councils by Military Government and the
Public Health Office, the German nurses
have functioned independent of US opinions.

Each Land in the US Zone has a trained
nurse elected by the German nurses to rep-
resent them in the Ministry of Interior. She
is known as the Land Nurse and advises the
German Public Health Officer on matters of
policy related to the nursing profession and
to the reviewing of plans to insure adequate
nursing staffs. The first meeting of the Zone
Land Nurses was held in Frankfurt 2 April
1946. MG representatives present at the
meeting decided that the German nurses were
not at that time prepared to carry their duties
without the support of an American nurse
representing them at OMGUS — a proposal
also requested by the German nurses them-
selves,

AMERICAN NURSE ADVISES

The position of the German nurses was
considered too insecure to risk removing the
Army nurses at Land level before June 1946;
they were then replaced by an American
civilian nurse who attends group meetings all
over the Zone, observes, advises, and serves
as a link between the German nurses and
Military Government. Through her, two re-
commendations were made to German nurses
as a whole: That they form a graduate nurses
association embracing members from all
groups with local, regional, and eventually
a national association; and that they include
in their Nurse Practice Act, to be rewritten
and proposed for legislative action, provision
for a board of nurse examiners.

In the United States, such recommenda-
tions would be elementary, but to the Ger-
man nurses they were revolutionary. There
has been great rivalry among the five nurse
groups for many years, and they have learn-
ed to vie with each other for work contracts
and sometimes political favor. Each group

has governed itself with the result that no
gmoup of nurses has governed nuzsing. The
idea of sitting dowm together to jointly plan
and guide the profession was new to them,
as was the thought that nurses should be
governed by nurses. Without a board of

“nurse examiners, nurse supervision over

schools of nursing, or a professional organi-
zation to render advice on nursing, the pro-
fession never could lift its standards on a
nation-wide basis.

NEW NURSE PRACTICE ACT

It is to the credit of German nurses today
that they are beginning to throw off their
old prejudices and cliques and to assist in
rewriting the Nurse Practice Act. The Ger-
man Land Nurses appeared before the Land
Public Health Committee on 7 February, to
make suggestions. In the past, the nurses
have had no voice in the official supervision
over schools of nursing or official participa-
tion in the state examination of nurses. People
who were not familiar with the first principles
of nursing held the profession in their control.

The Land nurses, therefore, suggested that
they be allowed to assist in the preparation
of the obligatory manual for schools of nurs-
ing and participate in the state examinations;
they asked that the Land Council of Nurses
have official status in guiding the Land
Nurse; that the training course for nurses be
extended over a three-year period and in-
clude four hundred hours of theory; that part
of the state examination be revised; and that
they work toward an eventual union of
nurses on a voluntary and professional basis.
The recommendations were revolutionary but
there was no apparent opposition from the
Committee. A sub-committee composed of
a member from the Minister of Interior, a
lawyer and the Land nurse was appointed
in each Land to prepare the Act for legis-
lative action.

As the profession advances toward more
democratic methods, officials believe the
more deficient phases of the profession — ad-
vanced education, special fields of nursing,
and public health nursing — will show steady
improvement.

--- Page 11 ---
CONTROL

he supervision for control, safeguarding,

and maintenance of the more than 8,900
properties in the US Zone of Germany and
US Sector of Berlin which are owned by
United Nations’ persons is the primary re-
sponsibility of the Property Control Branch
of Finance Division, OMGUS.

At the rate of about 500 per month, in-
quiries are received at the branch’s offices
from all parts of the world requesting in-
formation concerning the staius of personal
or corporative property. A typical letter of
inquiry states: “I was forced to leave Ger-
many in 1937 because of my racial ancestry.
The Nazis made me sell my house at a quar-
ter of its value. I have not received even
that money. Can you tell me whether the

house is still standing, and whether I have
a chance of recovering it or my money?”

When an inquiry is received, Property
Control acknowledges it and begins a field
investigation, referring the letter to the Prop-
erty Control Chief in the Land in which
the property is situated, with the request
that the case be investigated and property
control custody be taken if warranted. If,
after the investigation, custody is taken, a
report in detail is prepared and sent to the
claimant, followed by subsequent reports
at periodic intervals. Usually a custodian
is appointed, who is made responsible for
blocking any illegal transaction regarding
the property, and for protecting it until final
disposition is made. If the property is a

A bird's-eye view of the Berlin-Neu-
koelin subsidiary of the National Cash
Register Company; the plant is now
under control of MG PropertyControl.

Phoio'by PRO OMGUS

--- Page 12 ---
Workers at the Telefunken Radio Factory, Berlin-Schoeneberg, test
radio parts before final assembly; the operation of many large
factories such as this one is under the supervision of Property Control.

dwelling place or apartment house, the cus-
todian collects rent and pays for necessary
maintenance out of receipts.

Frequently among the letters of inquiry
received by Property Control humorous cases
appear, evidently written with the sincere
conviction that’ Property Control officials
can somehow do the impossible. One former
German citizen wrote asking for the return
of a portable typewriter taken from him by
a Nazi official. A letter from a persecutee
claimed the dowry she would have received if
she had been married in Germany: since
she was forced to leave the country without
her dowry, she requested comparable re-
muneration.

Each of the four occupying powers in
Germany have property control branches
which serve temporarily as “clearing houses”
for claims received from outside Germany.
The Military Governments exchange infor-
mation on the status of properties within

their respective zones. Thus, the inquiry
of a Chicago businessman asking about a
factory at Baden in the French Zone is ac-
knowledged by the OMGUS Property Con-
trol Branch and referred to the French of-
ficials for investigation.

Properties already in temporary custody
of Military Government in the US Zone and
US Sector of Berlin and claimed by nation-
als other than German: are valued at over
RM 2,327,000,000, with new inquiries being
received daily. Properties owned by Amer-
ican individuals and firms constitute the
largest part of all properties under control,
representing in value about two-thirds of the
foreign-owned properties taken over thus
far by the branch. As of 1 February, these
US-owned properties numbered 5,975, with
a total value of RM 1,500,000,000.

The responsibility for US and United Na-
tions properties as well as those belong-
ing to nationals of neutral nations rests with

--- Page 13 ---
the United and Neutral Nations Section of
the Branch. The other sections of Property
Control Branch include: German Property,
Claims, and Accounts and Audits.

Under the rules and procedures set forth
in MGR Title 17, Property Control may in-
clude use, possession, custody, occupancy,
protection, maintenance, conservation, and/
or supervision. It does not normally include
taking title to property. The type of con-
trol imposed at any time is a matier within
the discretion of the US MG Land Property
Control Chief, unless otherwise specified by
higher US authority.

The Property Control Branch has been
functioning since before the surrender of
Germany. As the US Army entered Ger-
many, MG Law 52 was issued, containing
substantially the same provisions as Joint
Chiefs of Staff Directive 1067: Property
owned or controlled directly or indirectly,
in whole or in part, by US nationals (among
others) was declared to be subject to seizure
of possession or title, direction, management,
supervision, or other form of control. Re-
sponsibility for the enforcement of the law
was placed upon persons having custody or

The “Deutscher Verlag” at Berlin-
Tempelhof, one of Berlin's largest
printing plants and home of “Der
Tagesspiegel,” US-licensed news-

Paper.

Photo by PRO OMGUS

control of the property; all persons were
prohibited from making transfers of such
property, and transfers made in violation
of the law, then and in the future, were
declared to be void.

Upon the promulgation of Law 52, prop-
erty owned by US nationals was automat-
ically “blocked”. Thereafter Property
Control Branch took such property under
control and operated it through duly ap-
pointed custodians (usually Germans), who
were under the immediate supervision of US
personnel. Properties thus taken over in-
cluded industrial plants, housing projects,
bank accounts, jewels, paintings, publish-
ing houses, and the income derived from’ the
operation of some of these units.

During the early stages of the occupation
there was uncertainty as to the status and
location of US-owned property in Germany.
As an interim measure, therefore, it was
considered necessary to prohibit, or block,
all transactions in such categories of prop-
erty and to declare all property subject to
seizure pending a sorting out of the prop-
erty and the formulation of policies with
regard to the long-range action to be taken.

(Continued on page 15)

--- Page 14 ---
Spe: from the Mediterranean, gold
from the United States, china-clay from
Czechoslovakia, turpentine from Portugal,
and quartz from Sweden are among the items
now being purchased with US Government
funds as a part of the pump-priming opera-
tions necessary to re-establish the famous
Bavarian china industry.

Funds totaling 140,000 dollars monthly
have been set aside for the purchase of these
and other raw materials. Potential sales of
more than 1,000,000 dollars monthly in house-
hold and decorative china are anticipated as
a result of this investment. This type of
operation which is equivalent to a net export
value of German materials and labor amount-
ing to 860,000 dollars monthly, provides the
dollar exchange with which other needed im-
ports may be purchased.

Nine export contracts calling for payment
of about 620,000 dollars have already been
concluded along the lines of this operation,
which is a part of the bizonal export-import

program designed to make the combined area
self-sustaining economically within three
years. These contracts are the first in a
projected series of transactions planned
under the program.

The contracts are distributed as follows:
Sweden, four contracts, 341,448 dollars;
Switzerland, three contracts, 98,715 dollars;
Great Britain, one contract 162,700 dollars,
and Norway, one contract, 17,000 dollars.

The gold shipment from the United States
had a value of 71,052.55 dollars and consist-
ed of 82 small bars, with a total weight of
almost 140 pounds. This gold, first in a
series of shipments, was taken to DEGUSSA,
a firm in Frankfurt which manufactures ce-
ramic colors and glazes, where it is to be
processed into gold glazes and forwarded to
Bavaria for use in decorating export china-
ware. ; F
With the ceramics industry in the US Zone
only slightly damaged during the war and a
growing world-wide demand for the famous

--- Page 15 ---
product, the china industry in the US Zone
has been one of the first to take orders for
export. Household and decorative china form
the bulk of the exportable ceramic-ware, but
figurines and porcelain electrical insulators
are also included.

Twenty-five ceramics plants in the US Zone
have been selected to participate in the pro-
duction program of Bavarian chinaware
totaling 1,500 tons per month, 750 tons of
which are to be of export quality. These
also provide the bulk of the ceramic-produc-
ing potential in the bizonal economic program.

The special sponges required in the ceram-
ics industry for the delicate finishing work
are of a particular species known as “ele-
phant ears,” which are distinguished by their
large flat form and silky textures. A search
of the world market located the best available
source in the Mediterranean area but a cur-
rent shortage has boosted the price of these
special sponges from about 25,000 dollars

Household chinaware such as this comprises the largest
part of the US Zone’s exportable ceramics-ware.

to 70,000 dollars a ton.

Because the Bavarian china industry is a
“frontier industry” established along the
Czechoslovak border, many of the raw mate-
rials used in the industry were normally
supplied from Bohemia, a part of Czechoslo-
vakia. About 80 per cent of the clays come
from deposits near Karlsbad, Bohemia, in-
cluding the famous Zettlitzer kaolins that
form the basis of much of the important
“name” china manufactured on the Continent.
Since this china-clay lies outside the present
German borders, it must be purchased from
dollar funds. Already large shipments have
been ordered and delivered to the Bavarian
china industry.

Quartz, basic ingredient of the chinaware
body, is imported from Scandinavia, especial-
ly from Sweden where there are deposits of
high quality. Feldspar, another essential
ingredient, also comes from Scandanavia.
Turpentine, used in the preparation of glazes.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 16 ---
is an item in short supply on the world mar-
ket, but the import section of OMGUS has
located supplies in Portugal which have been
purchased for the china program.

One of the problems arising in Bavarian
porcelain manufacturies practice is the high
temperatures (above 2500 degrees Fahrenheit)
to which the ware is fired. The coal con-
sumption involved. in firing Bavarian porce-
lain amounts to eight tons of coal for each
ton of finished ware. A quarter of the fuel
must be of a special grade of long flame,
hard coal. This coal formerly came from
the Ruhr, but because of the limited supply
of coal now available to German industry,
it is now necessary to purchase similar grades
of such coal from Czechoslovakia. The
remaining three-quarters of the required fuel
consist of brown coal, large supplies of which
have been purchased from Czechoslovakia.

Purchase of these raw materials has been

made by OMGUS Export Section which buys
on the world market according to availability
and price. The import purchasing staff has
at its disposal the largest group of overseas
agents in the world, for it makes use of the
commercial attaches in all US legations,

Under quadripartite agreement, unlimited
production in the ceramic and glass indus-
tries is permitted. The Joint Export-Import
Agency (US/UK) in Minden has been set up
to conduct negotiations with foreign buyers
and finalize contract commitments.

Most of the china export sales from’ the
Bavarian industry so far have gone to meet
the demands of Sweden and Switzerland
which have paid for purchase in dollars, and
it is anticipated that the industry will have
difficulty in supplying countries which have
been faced with a “chinaware famine” for more
than six years because of the curtailment of
chinaware production in Europe due to'the war.

Examples of the products of one of the 25 US Zone ceramics plants which provide
the bulk of the ceramic-producing potential in the bizonal economic program.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 17 ---
APPROACH TO SYMPATHY

A problem which becomes increasingly
grave and urgent for all Englishmen in Ger-
many, is the problem of how to argue with
a German.

Many members of the C.C.G. and B.A.O.R.
are coming into contact with Germans for
the first time. There is a very real danger,
based on a traditional English disinclination
for unpleasant argument, that in the course
of conversation the temptation to agree with
a German who criticises Military Govern-
ment will prove too strong for reason.

Ji is now a recognised fact that after the
1914-1918 War the Germans organised
sympathy for their plight, and swayed Eng-
lish public opinion to such an extent, that
it was only in 1939 that the danger became
clear to the’ man in the street. There are
signs that this is happening again.

The man in the street in England is not
yet blinded to facts, but he is in danger of
being misled, both by what he has the right
to consider informed opinion at home, and
by members of the Control Commission, who
in his view, are the experts on the spot.

BAD NEWS BETTER THAN GOOD

Informed circles at home, even those who
visit Germany from time to time for a few
days, are apt to base their public utterances
on information gleaned from dissatisfied

The above article.is reprinted from the
British Zone Review, official fortnightly or-
gan of the Control Commission, Military
Government of the British Zone of Germany.
ln the article, C.C.G. means Control Com-
mission for Germany, the British MG cor-
responding to OMGUS, and B.A.O.R. means
British Army of the Rhine, the military
force similar to that of the US Army in the
US Zone.

14

elements in Germany. “Bad news is better
news than good news.”

It is, therefore, at these, and at the mem-
bers of the Control Commission and the gar-
tisons of B.A.O.R. that the Germans are
aiming their sympathy campaign. They are
likely to succeed.

How many Englishman in Germany today
can claim to win every argument with every
German that he meets? Yet we must in every
argument. Each one lost is retailed a thou-
sand times, enlarged and becomes distorted.

The cause of our defeat is simple. Not
enough Englishmen take the trouble to learm
the facts that would equip them to face a
German enemy in verbal battle.

COAL PROBLEM CONSIDERED

One example points to the moral. One
of the chief subjects of conversation between
English and Germans today is the subject
of coal. The Germans are unable to under-
stand why, when 4% million tons of coal are
produced in the Ruhr in 5 weeks, they must
remain cold. In every argument, the British
are accused of bleeding Germany in repara-
tions for the Low Countries and for herself.

“Where does the coal go to?” is the con-
stant cry. How many Englishmen must retire
defeated? Yet how simple is the answer, and
answer available to everyone, printed in the
German Press, released to the British Press,
an answer that leaves the Englishman the
victor. It is this.

Not one ton .has ever been paid by Ger-
many in reparations. Only 4.1 percent of the
coal produced in the British Zone is taken by
the Occupation Authorities for their own
use. The remainder is evenly divided be-
tween operating German railways, ports and
inland waterways, providing essential ci-

--- Page 18 ---
vilians,.and in exponts te pay for food and
consumer foods to keep the Germans alive.
it as over and above: these exports that Ger-
many costs the British tax-payer 80,000,000
pounds (approximately 320,000,000 dollars)
last year. :

If more of us took more trouble to keep
abreast of facts, we would stand a greater
chance of succees in the sympathy campaign.

It is because of this conviction that the
writer takes it upon himself to suggest an
answer to two common attacks. The answer
will not be the only answer, nor will it
necessarily be completely true, for “what is
truth?”, but it will be a sincere answer, and
no German argument today will pass the test
of sincerity.

POW QUESTION

You will hear many Germans say “The
British talk about humanity but still retain
350,000 POW’s as slave labour.”

The answer is that the war which Nazi
Germany started, spread through her ambi-
tion for world domination, to every country
in the world. Germany lost the war, but left
countless countries starving and in chaos. In

order to restore order and supervise the
distribution of xelief food (Emgland is one of
the chief subscribers to. UNRRA), Britain’s
manpower had to be kept deployed all over
the world. In order to feed the English
people and thus release grain from Canada
and the United States to prevent Germany
from starving, it was necessary to utilise
POW labour on English farms. As the
British Army demobilises, German POWs
are now being repatriated at the rate of
15,000 a month. A recent scientific survey of
returned German POWs showed that the
latter, far from considering themselves ‘slave
labour’ were almost unanimous in praising
their humane treatment.

Again you will hear — “Present-day Ger-
man politicians are just as self-seeking as
the Nazi leaders were — what Germany
needs is a new and better leader.”

In answer to this it should be made clear
that the present-day German politicians were
elected by the Germans themselves in the
Kreis and Gemeinde elections. They were,
presumably the best the Germans could find.
What Germany needs is a new approach to
leadership, and a desire to lead itself.

PROPERTY CONTROL (Continued from page 10)

In identifying property owned by US nation-
als, captured records of the German Alien
Property Custodians, who functioned under
the Nazis, were a source of valuable infor-
mation. As US nationals’ properties were
identified in other zones of occupation, the
British, French, or Russian Property Control
officials were requested to take appropriate
action to safeguard them.

After months of occupation, the original
interim rules for Property Control were fi-
nally modified. In May 1946 authority
and responsibility for administration of the
program were transferred to screened Ger-
man civilians, with ultimate supervisory
powers retained by Military Government.
Tn addition the new regulations provided

15

that German custodians over property own-
ed by US nationals may not be appointed
or removed nor can such property be releas-
ed from control, without prior approval of
the Land Property Control Chief .

The problem with respect to property
owned by US nationals is essentially one of
interim custodianship until such time as the
individual owner can assume responsjbility
for the property. Certain obstacles existing
at present, such as the Trading with the
Enemy Act and travel and communication
restrictions, indicate that it will probably
be impossible for American owners to as-
sume full control over their property in
Germany for a considerable length of time,
or until these problems are solved.

--- Page 19 ---
Bipartite Vetting Committee

A bipartite committee, known as the Bi-
partite Working Party, composed of three
British members and three American mem-
bers, has been established by decision of Lt.
Gen. Sir Brian Robertson and Lt. Gen. Lucius
D. Clay to scrutinize all appointments in the
higher levels of the bizonal agencies. ‘This
step was taken in order to insure that these
leading German administrative posts are
filled by persons free from Nazism and mil-
itarism and qualified by political conviction,
as indicated by past activities, to make a
contribution to the development of de-
mocracy in Germany as called for by the
Potsdam Agreement. The primary respons-
ibility for the selection of suitable officials
in the bizonal agencies rests with the German
Bizonal Executive and Joint Committees.

The US Military Governor and the British
Deputy Military Governor have charged the
Bipartite Working Party with full powers
to examine all nominations by the German
Joint Executive Committee in the six agen-
cies functioning under the plan of economic
unification of the British and US Zones.
The only top appointments not scrutinized
are those cases in which persons of ministe-
rial rank in the cabinets of their respective
Laender are named to membership in the
German Joint Executive Committees.

The Bipartite Working Party examines
each nomination in accordance with the
letter and spirit of Control Council Directives
24 and 38. All appointments in the Bizonal
Agencies affecting positions carrying res-
ponsibility for policies and personnel are
merely provisional until the Committee has
given its final approval. In case of dis-
approval, the nominee’s services are imme-
diately terminated.

SED in US Zone

A statement by the Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, said: “Informal requests

16

from the Zone indicate the j of the
KPD to reorganize under the nate of the
Socialist Unity Party (SED). There are also

some indications from the Zone that several -

local groups not in the KPD are interested
in applying as local Kreis units of the SED.

“Military Government has no objection to
such applications being filed; nor does it
have objections to the Communist Party’s
continuing to meet to support this idea, nor
to the Party’s filing a request with Military
Government to change its name. However,
it will not be possible for Military Govern-
ment to make a final decision on this matter
until after the Moscow Conference of Foreign
Ministers.”

Land Budgets

For the fiscal year ending 31 March 1947,
the budget situation in each of the four US
Zone Laender looks bright. In two Laender
— Bavaria and Hesse — the total expendi-
tures for the year will slightly exceed the
total revenue; in Wuertiemberg-Baden, rev-
enue and expenditures are expecied to
balance; and in Bremen, it is expected that
revenue will exceed expenditures.

The main reason for the balanced or

nearly balanced budgets (original estimates
last year had anticipated large deficits in —

each Land) is the increased tax rates imposed
by the Allied Control Council, which have
increased the revenue collected in each Land
by millions of Reichsmarks.

In addition, expenditures were generally
over-estimated, including the cost of pay-
ments made by local German authorities for
supplies and services rendered to the occu-

pation forces. Because of technical reasons, —

such as lack of available raw materials,
skilled labor, and trained prsonnel, a number
of anticipated projects in each Land had to
be deferred until the next fiscal year.
Following are the estimated total revenues

--- Page 20 ---
and expenditures for each of the Laender for
the fiscal. year 1 April 1946 to 31 March
1947: .

Bavaria: revenue, RM 3,372 million; ex-
penditures, RM 3,388.6 million; deficit, RM
16.6 million.

Hesse: revenue, RM 1,576 million; ex-
penditures, RM 1,597 million; deficit, RM
21 million.

Wuerttemberg-Baden: revenue, RM 1,500
million; expenditures, RM 1,500 million.

Bremen: revenue, RM 388.3 million; ex-
penditures, RM 367.4 million; balance, RM
20.9 million.

Industry Output To Rise

The peak levels in industrial production
attained during the fall of 1946 should be
recovered by late April or early May, ac-
cording to a statement issued by the
Economies Division, OMGUS. February
marked the low point of the cold-weather
industrial recession but the change in climatic
conditions heralded reopening of factories, a
rise in hydrogeneration, the opening of ice-
bound inland waterways and a break in the
transportation bottleneck. These measures,
buttressed by an increasingly favorable coal
position, point to a new period of industrial
development and expansion.

During February, the US Zone index of
industrial production declined to 29 percent
of the 1936 average as compared with 32
percent in January. The decline affected
almost all major industry groups. Brick and
cement production and vehicle output fell to
only seven percent of the 1936 base period.
The optics and precision instruments manu-
facture slumped to the lowest point since
August 1945. Output of gas and electricity
dropped sharply as streams remained frozen
and as some gas plants closed to conserve
critically low stocks of coal. Reductions of
10 to 20 percent took place in the production
of iron and steel, machinery, electrical equip-
ment, chemicals, and paper and pulp.

As in January, a few industries managed

17

to resist the general downtrend. With Deut-
sche Tafelglas at Weiden recovering rapidly
from its earlier shutdown, production of flat
glass doubled to 520,000 square meters, thus
approximating the 1936 monthly average.
The rubber products industry expanded
about one-fifth, to 26 percent of the 1936
base, as a result of the reopening of Con-
tinentale Gummiwerke at Korbach. This
plant had been idle since December 1946 and
resumed operations during the month with
the aid of a special allocation of coal. Total
production of textiles held at about even with
the low level reached in January. Over-all
output in the ceramics industry declined only
slightly.

More Tobacco Planned

Sufficient tobacco to provide each German
in the US Zone with slightly more than half
a kilo during the coming year is envisioned
in the plan of the Industry Branch, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, for doubling the
tobacco production for 1947. Although this
per capita yield will be less than a third of
the 1936 average, this increased Zone pro-
duction for cigars, cigarettes, smoking and
chewing tobacco, and snuff is important for
its morale value and as a source of revenue.

The plan is estimated to produce during
the coming year 9,200 tons of raw tobacco,
expected to yield 6,360 tons of cured tobacco.
The total production from the 1946 crop
was 4,250 tons of raw tobacco, with an
estimated yield of 3,400 tons of cured to-
bacco. This doubling of production is ex-
pected to be accomplished through an in-
crease in the 1946 acreage of 4,800 to 5,400
this year.

The total per-capita consumption of to-
bacco in 1936 was 1.79 kilos, of with .49 kilo
was home-grown and 1.3 kilos imported. The
consumption based on the 1946 crop amount-
ed to .24 kilo of domestic tobacco, the only
type available through official channels. It
is anticipated that .52 kilo per head will be
available from domestic sources in 1947.

--- Page 21 ---
International Wire Service

International telephone. and _ telegraph
service for the German civil population in
the US and British Zones of Germany to all
countries of the world except Spain and Ja-
pan and their dependencies is authorized as
of 1 April.

Content of telegrams and subject matter
of telephone conversations is limited to the
exchange of information and ascertainment
of facts; the closing of business deals and
contracts is prohibited; and no messages
relative to German external assets, even if
only of a simple informational character, is
permitted. The Communications Branch, IA
&C Division, OMGUS, added that it is prob-
able that certain countries will not exercise
their right to reestablish international tele-
communications services with the US and
British Zones on 1 April.

Only those Germans authorized by the
Joint Export-Import Agency (US/UK) in
the US and British Zones will be authorized
to make outgoing calls or to send outgoing
telegrams; however, there will be no limita-
tions on incoming service. Rates in Reichs-
mark for outgoing civil traffic have been
increased 100 percent over 1938-39 levels.

Penicillin Potentialities.

Sufficient raw materials and equipment
are available in the US and British Zones to
manufacture between 100 and 200 billion
Oxford units of penicillin per month, accord-
ing to a special investigation by penicillin
experts of the German production potential
in the two zones.

Specialized chemical equipment for this
project is available within Germany, and
leading manufacturers in the United States
are considering a suggestion to furnish the
necessary supervision to operate a new plant
for large volume production, according to
the Economics Division, OMGUS.

At present the only source of domestic
penicillin is the Hoechst plant in the US
Zone, producing between 40 and 50 million
units a month. This production is limited to
external medicinal uses, due to impurities.

18

Decline in Production

Industrial production in the US Zone
during January dropped approximately 20
percent from December to an estimated 31
percent of the 1936 average. The main
reasons for this decrease were weather and
transportation difficulties: With the Rhine-
Main waterway system choked with ice,
hundreds of locomotives frostbound, high-
ways piled high with snow drifts, telephone
and telegraph lines down and power cut off
in many industrial centers, all major indus-
try groups declined during the month.

There were, however, certain favorable
aspects in the industrial picture: More men
mined coal during January than in any
month of the occupation; pig iron production
showed an increase, along with sheet and
plate steel, important factors in the produc-
tion of farm machinery and consumer goods;
the output of cooking and heating stoves,
automotive spare parts, and certain other
items also rose.

Personnel Changes

Brig. Gen. Cornelius E. Ryan has been
named US Member of the Berlin Kommanda-
tura and Commanding General, Berlin Com-
mand, OMGUS. Prior to this assignment,
General Ryan was Commanding General,
Headquarters Command, USFET.

Col. Mark Brislawn has been appointed
Acting Headquarters Commandant, EUCOM.

Arthur S. Barrows has been appointed
Deputy Director of the Economics Division,
OMGUS, in charge of bipartite negotiations
and operations. He is a former president of
Sears Roebuck and Company.

Lt. Col. George H. Paul is director of the
newly-established Minden office of Public
Relations Office, OMGUS.

James E. King, Jr., has been appointed
Acting Staff Secretary, OMGUS.

Col. V. C. Stevens is serving as Acting
Director of Manpower Division, OMGUS,
during the temporary absence of Leo R.
Werts. ;

Lt. Col. Alfred B. Jaynes has been named
Theater Chief of Claims, EUCOM..

--- Page 22 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The 26th Laenderrat Directorate meeting
in Stuttgart on 6 March recommended to the
Laenderrat principles for the admission of
foreign welfare workers, providing for ap-
proval by the Welfare Ministry of projects
outlined in detail as to personnel and time
involved.

As of 31 January, the denazification status
of 60 percent of persons who have registered
under the Law for Liberation had been
determined. On the basis of 7,100,000
questionaires examined, 940,000 had been
found chargeable and more than 6,000,000
persons in the US Zone found to be ap-
parently not chargeable under the Law for
Liberation.

A fire at the municipal building in Pforz-
heim, Wuerttemberg-Baden, on 15 February
caused RM 100,000 damage. In Darmstadt,
Hesse, the wooden barracks in which the US
fire department was stationed was destroyed
with damage estimated at RM 200,000. Two
UNRRA barracks burned at Laufen, Bavaria,
with a loss of RM 550,000.

RATION STAYS AT 1550 CALORIES

_- The ration scale for the 99th period which
began on 3 March continues to provide ap-
proximately 1,550 calories per day for the
normal consumer in the US-British Zones.
The normal consumer fat ration and meat
ration for all non-farm consumers over six
years of age have been reduced, but com-
pensatory increases of bread allowance have
been made.

Arrivals of food imports from the United
States for US-British occupied areas of Ger-
many totaled approximately 270,000 metric
tons during February. Of this amount 58,000
metric tons were allocated to the US Zone
and the remainder to the British Zone.

The production of hard coal continues
upward, chiefly reflecting the expansion of
employment of miners in the Ruhr. On 27
February, the Ruhr output reached a post-
war peak of 235,000 metric tons, or 52 per-
cent of the 1938 daily rate; this compared

9

with 200,000 metric tons on 1 February.

Despite uninterrupted expansion of coal
production, rail transportation facilities are
still overloaded because frozen waterways
paralyze barge traffic. Forced stockpiling
of coal has resulted. In the British Zone, for
example, stocks on 23 February totaled
1,532,000 metric tons, more than double the
total four weeks before.

SUGAR SUBSTITUTED FOR MEAT

The Bipartite Food and Agriculture Con-
trol Group has advised that the German
Executive Office has issued instructions to
German officials authorizing the substitution
in Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden of sugar
for meat through the 98th period. The ration
is 100 grams of meat to 40 grams of sugar.

To prevent damaging German crops and
fields by vehicles driven off roads for park-
ing, turning, and making shortcuts, USFET
has instructed in a cable “that vigorous
action be taken by all elements of the command
to insure that US Military personnel and
personnel employed by the US Army do not
operate vehicles off regular roads and trails,
except in cases of emergency.”

Because of the increasing importance and
developments of bizonal activities in the
general economics field, the Public Relations
Office, OMGUS, has now established a branch
office at Minden, Westfalen, in the British
Zone, where the Bipartite Economics Control
Group is located.

TOBACCO NOT FULLY AVAILABLE

Because the production of tobacco pro
ducts has been delayed by shortages of coal
and power, the tobacco ration for the period
beginning 17 March is not fully available.

The first contract for the export of silver-
ware from the US Zone of Germany was
signed at the end of February. The Wilhelm
‘Weinrack Company of Hanau, Hesse, is to
sell hand-made coffee and tea services,
candy boxes, candelabra, and other hand-
hammered luxury items to a Chicago firm.

--- Page 23 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instructions
are printed for the benefit of our readers.
Official copies of the quoted circulars, let-
ters, and directives may be obtained by writ-
ing to the originating headquarters.

Nazi Officers Not “Followers”

A change in instructions to be given to
Public Prosecutors in‘ connection with clas-
sification of Nazi party office holders is
noted in OMGUS Directive AG 014.311 to
the Director, Regional Government Coordi-
nating Office, dated 10 March 1947, entitled
“Disapproval of Proposed Instructions con-
cerning Findings of Follower against Of-
ficers of Nazi Organizations.”

The Directive explains that, as presently
worded, the proposed instruction to Public
Prosecutors constitutes an open invitation to
find Nazi party office holders below the
rank of Ortsgruppenleiter to be followers.
This instruction is disapproved, for’ the
reasons that “both the Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Militarism and
Control Council Directive No. 24 recognize it
as a most important general rule that holding
office or other evidence of Nazi activity
establishes such a strong presumption that a
person was more that a nominal Nazi (and
therefore ineligible for classification as a
follower) that only in the most exceptional
cases is such a finding possible.”

The Directive further points out that, “be-
cause of the fact that a finding of follower
makes the respondent eligible for appoint-
ment or reinstatement in public and semi-
public office and positions of responsibility
in important private undertakings (unless
discretionary sanctions authorized by Article
18 (2) are imposed), it is of greatest im-
portance that the definitions of follower or
nominal Nazi contained in the law and in
Control Council Directive No, 24 be sirictly
construed. Otherwise the most important de-
nazification objective of the Law for Liber-
ation and Control Council Directive No. 24
will be defeated.”

Exhibit Program Set Up

The establishment of a Pictorial Exhibits
program, initiated by the Office of the
Director of Information Control, OMGUS,
is provided for in OMGUS Directive AG 001
(IC), dated 8 March 1947. The purpose of
the program is to familiarize the German
population with all phases of American life,
reflected in photographs, charts, and other
exhibits media.

The Directive states in part: “Pictorial
exhibits will be the responsibility of the.
Director of Information Control. Exhibit
themes will be decided by the Director of In-
formation Control in consultation with Di-
rectors of other OMGUS agencies . . .

“Movement of exhibits throughout the US.
Zone will be supervised by the Director of
Information. Control. Within the US Zone
and US Sector of Berlin, Chiefs of US In-
formation Centers will be responsible for
finding suitable locations for exhibits
through MG channels.

“To implement this program adequately,
the full-time assignment of one US civilian
specialist and four German civilians at OM-
GUS and one US civilian in each Land,
under the supervision of the Chief, US In-
formation Centers, Information Control Di-
vision, is considered necessary.”

Proclamation No. 4

Under provisions of Proclamation No. 4,
which became effective March 1, 1947, many
of the broad powers given to Military Gov-
ernment when the occupying forces moved
into Germany have been redefined and sub-
stantially limited.

The new proclamation modifies Procla-
mation No. 2, issued 20 September 1945,
under which Military Government assumed
control of much of the legislative, judical,
and executive power of the conquered
country. It also limits the powers that had
been delegated to the Ministers President
under proclamation No. 2.

--- Page 24 ---
Import of Moscow Conference

Noted in US-Licensed Press

Minister - President Reinhold Maier of
Wuerttemberg-Baden in a article in the
Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauberbischofs-
heim) on the forthcoming peace treaty point-
ed out that Germany could not possibly have
a Moscow representative because she has no
central authority which could furnish a rep-
resentative. He wrote in part:

“It appears to be astonishing only at first
glance that no Germans have been invited to
the Moscow Conference. But when thinking
it over, it is logical that we are absent. For
the Allies meet in Moscow in order to arrive
at an agreement about us.

“Moreover, a truly authorized represent-
ative of the German side could not be found.
This is certainly not because the past two
years of occupation were not long enough to
develop the constitutional structure of Ger-
many to such an extent that a representative
office, capable of participating in the negotia-
tions, could have crystallized in that time.

“We have seen the year of elections —
1946 — in the American Zone: communal
elections, Kreistag elections, Land elections.
We know that this system could have been
further developed and progressed without
difficulties up to the establishment of a re-
sponsible democratic Gérman central authori-
ty. But apparently it was not to be.”

The Frankfurter Rundschau also discussed
the question of a proper “spokesman” for
Germany, and deplored lack of party agree-
ment:

“Each of us knows that the peace condi-
tions which will be provided for Germany
sooner or later will be hard, harder even than
those provided by the treaty of Versailles.
Every clear thinking person, however, must
realize that no peace would mean division
of Germany into several zones. In view of

21

embarked upon some kind of competition, as
to which of them could raise the best sound-
ing demands to the victors in the name of
the people.”

Editor Carlebach criticized: “As long as
the representatives of the different parties in
the German Laender and Zones are not ca-
pable of sitting down at one table and draft a
common declaration on their opinions, dis-
regarding their individual wishes, nobody can
expect that the voice of this or that group
would be important enough to allay the dis-
trust that is again increasing abroad.”

The Frankenpost (Hof) printed an edi-
torial by Dr. Wilhelm Hoegner on the SPD
position on the peace treaty. He declared:
“The guilt of Germany is greater, however,
for its failure to prevent the rise to power of
the Nazis. The obligations of the German
people (toward the world) must be restricted
to a reasonable degree. That means they must
leave the German people the possibility of
living on as a cultured people. They cannot
reduce them to the level of helots. They
will have to leave them the economic means
whereby they can not only support them-
selves but also contribute reparations . . .
The best protection for the Allies is to su-
pervise the production of goods, with which
we shall have to put up for a long time .. .
The most sensitive point in the future peace
negotiations is undoubtedly the demand for
separation of former purely German terri-
tories.”

The Frankfurter Neue Presse examined the
various aspecis of the Moscow discussions:
government, borders, reparations. The paper
expressed the prevailing opinion of the pos-
sible results:

“The participating powers and we who
follow the conference with secret concern but
with confidence know that the result of the

--- Page 25 ---
-Moscow negotiations cannot be the wiitten
text of a final and valid treaty for Germany.

The problem is too difficult and disputed.

But they may succeed in creating a common

- foundation which. is.not dictated by hatred

“Sand retaliation, but by political reality and
the recognition of the existence of the Ger-
man people.”

Occupation Review

The Frankfurter Rundschau commented on
the final statement by Gen. Joseph T. Mc-
Narney as follows:

“When we recommend to our readers to
read very carefully the ‘Review of the Oc-
cupation from November 1945 until March
1947’ in today’s edition, presented by Gen-
eral McNarney, former Military Governor
and Commander-in-Chief of the American
Armed Forces in Europe, on the occasion of
his farewell press conference, we also re-
commend to everybody to recall the situation
as it was then and to take into consideration
the task which this occupation power had
to tackle and to solve. :

“If we say this, we are fully aware of the
difficulties and shortcomings from which we
all have to suffer today and probably for
some time to come. ‘We also know how
slowly . ... the inner domestic reconstruction
and the necessary adjustment to world econ-
omy, progress. But that is not so much a
question of an individual occupation power
as that of the Allied governments who now
have to come to an agreement at the Moscow
Conference on the basis of existence of Ger-
many.”

Truman Speech Praised

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) was
the first paper which carried an editorial on
President Truman’s address to Congress on
Greece and Turkey. It said in part:

“The message of the American President
before both houses of Congress on a. bill to
provide economic and military support for
Greece and Turkey is regarded. throughout
the whole world as a step of greatest political

importance. It demonstrates best the will of
the world power, America, not to continue a
laissez faire policy in the Mediterranean and
in the Near East.

“The desire to pursue an active world pol-
icy and show direct interest in world affairs,
in contrast to isolationism, becomes apparent
in Washington. It is linked with a develop-
ment that was accelerated during the last
months: the decline of British world power.
apparent by ihe withdrawal from India, Bur-
ma, Egypt, and soon Palestine and Greece . .

“In the long run there will be only two
powers which could fill the vacuum: America
and Russia. President Truman has now
pointed out that Washington is prepared to
take over those tasks which formerly could
be fulfilled by the British Empire.

German Assembly Debated

The Soviet-licensed Neue Zeit, Christian
Democratic Union organ in Berlin, addressed
a letter to the leaders of the SPD, SED, and
LPD, advising that they get together and
“prepare the first stage of an assembly of
representatives of the German people.”

Expressing approval of the proposal, the
French-licensed Kurier declared the pro-
posal is in accordance with the views of some
of the parties invited. It noted that similar
steps have been taken by the LPD, the only
difference being that the CDU proposal con-
tains a direct invitation to the other parties.
It would be desirable that some kind of a
German interzone assembly which could rep-
resent the interests of all of Germany be set
up as soon as possible and that party inter-
ests or zonal narrow-mindedness be sub-
jugated to this necessity,” declared the paper.

The US-licensed independent newspaper
Tagesspiegel contended that such an as-
sembly should not be called until the Laen-
der governments are all based on constitu-
tions and have voluntarily decided to join a
German federal republic.

“This cannot be done until the Laender
have gained an existence of their own and
then one can speak of a great initiative,” ad-
vised the paper.

--- Page 26 ---
Battle of the German Mind

At least a generation will be required to
change the nationalistic, militaristic, totalit-
arian mode of thinking which now is so
deeply rooted in Germany, and even then
the effort may fail, wrote Virginius Dabney
in the Richmond (Va.) Times-Dispatch) fol-
lowing a récent tour of the US Zone of Ger-
many with a group of leading American
newspaper executives. This article follows
in part:

The battle for the German mind is being
concentrated in the German elementary and
high schools, under the direction of Dr. John
W. Taylor, Chief of the Education and Re-
ligious Affairs Branch of the Internal Af-
fairs and Communications Division of the
Office of Military Government for Germany . .

The Hitlerian poison has permeated all
classes of society. Approximately 12 years of
concentrated propaganda, combined with the
fact that Germans were far better housed and
fed under their late Fuehrer than they are
today, have brought about an extremely dif-
ficult problem. The average German has
seldom been more miserable than he is at this
moment. Some 38 large German cities have
been pounded to rubble, and their inhabitants
are living under appalling conditions, with
hardly enough food to keep body and soul
together.

It is almost impossible to hope for any real
progress in democratizing the thinking of the
average German, as long as he is living
wretchedly and contrasting his lot with that
of the prosperous years immediately preced-
ing 1942. True, many Germans feel that the
Nazi regime was responsible for their pres-
ent low estate, but until they are given some
reasons for believing that democracy can
give them a better deal than they have had
in the past, the natural German liking for
“order,” “discipline,” and “the Fuehrer
principle” are likely to prevail: At least,
such seems to be a vividly felt fear of many

23

—

In interviews with the Germans whi ;
the municipal government in Berlin, and
those who conduct the provincial government
of Bavaria, in Southern Germany, we re-
ceived almost identical responses. “So long
as the people are hungry, cold and without
decent housing it is futile to hope that they
will become democratic in their attitudes.
Once their elemental needs are taken care of,
and they have something to look forward to,
they can be appealed to with some hope of
success.” Such was the prevailing view.
This view came from men who are in po-
sitions of authority partly because of their
anti-Nazi records. Many of them spent years
in concentration camps because they refused
to bow the knee to Hitler. Their opinions
are entitled, therefore, to considerable re-
spect.

The depth of degradation to which the
German nation sank under Hitler is vividly
illustrated in the current trial at Nuremberg
of the 23 medical men who are charged with
carrying on fiendish experiments against
human beings. Experiments in freezing, in
sterilization, in high altitude tests, in ma-
laria, and in bone and nerve conditions, which
involved fatalities in thousands of cases, are
charged’. . . They are so well-documented as
to be already proved — and by the Nazis
themselves. For these methodical Germans
took photographs of the victims at each
stage of the proceedings, and kept complete
minutes of their discussions, with direct quo-
tation from the participants. These minutes
are now in the hands of the prosecution. As
one prominent American remarked: “The
Nazis’ own records are sufficient to hang the
whole crowd”. . .

How do the Germans regard these proceed-
ings? Are they sympathetic to the prose-
cution and conviction of the men who are
guilty of such monstrosities? Did they feel
that Goering, Keitel, and the rest should

--- Page 27 ---
have been condemned to death? A well-
considered answer is impossible, but the prob-
abilities are that the average. German is
largely unimpressed by these trials... The
day we sat in the courtroom a mere sprinkl-
ing of Germans was on hand. The natives
appear considerably bored by the whole
business. Maybe they think the trials are
fair and maybe they don’t. At all events,
there is little reason for believing that they
attach much significance to them. Such is
the opinion of various persons in a position
to know, including several German news-
papermen with anti-Nazi records.

All this bears on the question whether the
Germans can be “reoriented.” . . . Dr. Tay-
lor and his aides are trying to make it easy
for the Germans to teach themselves dem-
ocratic thought processes, and are keeping
away from anything which savors of trying
to ram democracy down German throats.

For example, they are not writing text-
books for the Germans, but are letting the
anti-Nazi Germans write their own texts.
Meanwhile the schools are using the texts
which were approved in Germany in the
years immediately preceding the coming of
the Nazis to power. Nine curriculum labor-
atories and textbook writing centers are be-
ing operated at this time in the American
Zone, and it is anticipated that the Germans
will be able to produce sound texts before
too long. These texts will be published, as-
suming that the paper is available, and then
the elementary and high school pupils will
study books from which the Nazi poison has
been removed by their fellow-countrymen.

The denazification program has ousted all
active Nazis from the school system, and has
put the teaching in the hands of Germans
who believe in freedom and the democratic
way. At the same time, it is not contemplat-
ed that these teachers will attempt to reg-
iment their pupils in democratic thinking.
Their approach will be generally similar to
that which prevails in the American schools.
Pupils will be given the opportunity to learn
about democracy, and its virtues will be
emphasized, but there will be no totalitarian

pressure. Those in charge of this program
for OMGUS are optimistic for its ultimate
success.

In the field of youth ‘training of all sorts,
Dr. Norman Hiemes, Chief, Office of Special
Educational Institutions and Agencies, E&
RA Branch, IA&C Division, OMUGS, de-
clares that “we must find a creative sub-
stitute for the Hitler youth.” He states that
whereas much stress has been placed hitherto
on athletic programs, we must put emphasis
henceforth on “getting at the minds of youth.”
Some 7,500 youth groups have been formed
in the American Zone, and have a total
membership of 651,000. This is about 25
percent of the former Hitler youth member-
ship for the same area, but the latter was
compulsory, whereas the United States au-
thorities are operating on a voluntary basis.
Of late they are making a particular effort
to enlist the interest of German girls...

All this may ultimately get the desired re-
sult, and it may not. The mayor of Berlin,
Dr. Ostrowski, a German of strongly demo-
cratic views, declared the other day when
we discussed the problem with him that
“many of our people are born Nazis”. and
that nationalistic and militaristic teachers of
the past 100 years must be eradicated.

Anybody who looks around him today at
the wreckage of the city over which Dr.
Ostrowski presides, can hardly fail to be
vastly impressed with the thought that war
has brought overwhelning calamity to the
Reich. The center of Berlin is the most
gigantic wreck in the history of the world..

Such is the low estate to which Hitler
brought Berlin and Germany. The people
are wretched, cold and hungry. Those in
the urban regions are living under well nigh
incredible hardships. Have they learned the
lesson that this shatiering defeat should have
taught them, or are they even now plotting
another drive for world dominion? Can
they be taught to think in democratic terms,
or will they continue to be the disciples of
Frederick the Great and Clausewitz, Moltke
and Treitschke? We probably must wait 25
to 30 years before getting the answer.