--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 85 / 24 MARCH 1947

Dama

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

Oo =
NFO {ON

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Eligibility of War Department Civilian Employees for Transporting their
Dependents to ihe European Theater .

Follow-up Reports on Serious Incidents .

Agreement for US and French Rights in French and US Zones of
Occupation an

Travel Into and Out of German

Military Posts.

Movement and Documentation of Supplies in the European Theater
Allied Milifary Missions .
Application for Visits of Dependents of Military and Civilian Personnel
Supply Responsibilities for Official US Publishing and Film Operations
Relationship between Post Commanders and Elements of 970th Coun-
ter Intelligence Corps Detachment .

Hospital Ration for Civilian Internees under Direct Control of US Forces
Publications and Blank Forms .

Non-German Information Enterprises Licensed to Operate in US Zone
Care and Feeding, in Approved Assembly Centers, of United Nations

Displaced Persons, Persecutees and Those Assimilated to them in Status

Purchase of Surplus Property by US Military Personnel, Civilian
Employees, etc. oo poo ooo .

AG 230 GAP-AGO
10 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 250 GAP-AGO
11 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 092 GDS-AGO
13 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 014.331 GEC-AGO
15 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 322 GCT-AGO
21 Feb 1947, USFET

SOP No. 24
22 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 091.112 (SG)
25 Feb 1947, OMGUS

230 (BCSAP)
27 Feb 1947, OMGUS

AG 000.7 (IC)
27 Feb 1947, OMGUS

AG 322 GCT-AGO
27 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 430.2 GEC-AGO
27 Feb 1947, USFET

Circular No. 15
28 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 000.7 (IC)
28 Feb 1947, OMGUS

AG 383.7 GEC-AGO
28 Feb 1947, USFET

SOP No. 85
1 Mar 1947, USFET

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Phote

NTERNMENT CAMP. THEATER — The pict-
ure on this week's cover shows a group of
men at the Darmstadt Internment. Enclosure
rehearsing a play fo be presented for the
entertainment of other internees at the camp.
More than 11,000 Germans are interned at
Darmstadt, awaiting trial by denazification
‘tribunal, :

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

“Consumers Cooperatives” was prepared by
“Malcolm D, Taylor, US Member of the Special
Working Party on Consumer Cooperative Soci-
sties. Most of the factual data are based on
studies made by the US Bureau of Labor
“Statistics. Prior fo joining the Trade and
Commerce Branch of the Economics Division,
‘OMSUS, Mr. Taylor was Professor of Market-
) ing at the University of North Carolina,
Material for the story on the port of Bremen
“was submitied by OMG Land Bremen. The
article explains the operation and importance
“of the port which handles all shipping and
‘Sargoes for the US Zone. :

_ MG SERIES

mp
The recent series in the Weekly Information
letin on the operations and functions of
; Military Government is being compiled into
‘book. Reguests by US pérsonnel in Germany
or copies of this book are to be made by

ler or carrier sheet to the Control Office,
APO 742, US Army.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Theater Reorganization Plan
Consumer Cooperatives
The Bremen Port

Bizonal Organizations

Position of Advisory Parliament
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO

10
14
19

22
24
27

--- Page 7 ---
neon RNBATION

he streamlining of American occupation in

Germany was accomplished 15 March
1947 with the inauguration of the latest re-
organization program to define the respective
functions and activities of the military and
military government forces.

Gen. Joseph T. McNarney, who has been
the Theater Commander, Military Governor,
and member of the Allied Control Council
since November 1945, when General Dwight
D. Eisenhower left the Theater to become
Chief of Staff of the US Army, is returning

to the United States to assume new respon-
sibilities in setting up of the US Forces under
the security provisions of the United Nations.

Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, who has been
Deputy Military Governor in direct command
of Military Government operations, suc-
ceeded General McNarney under the new title
of Commander-in-Chief, European Command,
as well as becoming the Military Governor,
and the US Representative on the Allied
Control Council for Germany.

At the formal ceremony in, Frankfurt

Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay accepts office and title of Commander-in-Chiet, European Command, from Gen.
Joseph T. McNerney, former Commanding General, USFET, at ceremonies in Frankfurt on 15 March,

Signe! Corps Phote

--- Page 8 ---
15 March marking the transfer of command,
General McNarney said the US occupational
forces were entering the second phase of
their task — ‘the longterm job of guidance
of the German people in their economic,
political, and social rehabilitation according
to democratic principles.” He asserted: “As
the functions of Military Government were
progressively to a greater and greater extent
separated from the purely military function,
one individual in the theater assumed more
and more responsibility for the economic,
political, and, social rehabilitation of Ger-
many. That man is General Clay. Therefore,
it is only fitting that as Military Government
assumes the dominant role of the US Forces
in Europe, he should assume complete re-
sponsibility.” “

In accepting the command, General Clay
praised the work of the retiring Military
Governor and Theater Commander, especially
the US Army’s interest in the rehabilitation

of German youth. He also declared: “Here
in Germany, our forces are devoted to the
tasks of peace. We shall continue our work
in full hope that when our mission is com-
pleted, peace and security will have been
guaranteed throughout the world by the
United Nations.”

During the ceremony, General McNarney
presented General Clay the Oak Leaf Cluster
to the Distinguished Service Medal for his ser-
vices during the “troubled period of adjust-
ment” from April 1945 to March 1947 as
characterized by his “astute planning, keen
political acumen, forceful determination, and
superb tact.”

With this change in command, a further
integration of US forces and organizations
has taken place. To assist and advise him in
overall operations and policies, General Clay’

(Left) Lt. Gen. Lucius D.” Clay, Commander-in-Chief of
European Command,! Military Governor for Germany
(US), and US Representative on the Allied Control Council
(Below) Maj. Gen. Frank A. Keating, Deputy Military
Governor and Commanding” Genera! of OMGUS.
Photos by PRO OMGUS

--- Page 9 ---
has created the Office of the Commander-in-
Chief, with headquarters in Berlin. This of-
fice consists of a special staff as follows:
Political, Governmental Affairs, Finance,
and Economics Advisors; Budget and Fiscal,
Management Control, Intelligence, and Per-
sonnel Directors, and Inspector General.
The Headquarters, US Forces, European
Theater, becomes Headquarters, European
Command, under command of Maj. Gen. Clar-
ence B. Huebner as Deputy Commander-in-
Chief, European Command, in addition to his
duties as Chief of Staff, European Command,
and Commanding General, US Ground and
Service Forces, Europe. The headquarters
remains in Frankfurt. The European Com-
mand contains all of the units and personnel
necessary for security, services, supply, and
administrative support of all US organi-
zations, units, agencies, and personnel con-
nected with the occupation of Europe. Under
Headquarters, European Command, are US
Air Forces, Europe; US Ground and Service
Forces; US Constabulary; US Naval Forces,
Europe; US Forces, Austria; American Gra-
ves Registration Command, as well as 21
military posts scattered through the US Zone
of Germany and the US Sector of Berlin.

POSITION OF OMGUS HEADQUARTERS

The Headquarters, Office of Military Go-
vernment for Germany (US), remains in
Berlin. Maj. Gen. Frank A. Keating, who
has been Assistant Deputy Military Gover-
nor, is the new Deputy Military Governor,
US Zone, Germany, and the Commanding
General of OMGUS.

OMGUS is specifically charged with car-
rying out those functions pertaining to Mili-
tary Government as set forth in international
treaties and agreements; Allied Control Coun-
cil Laws, decisions, and actions; the laws of
the United States; executive orders of the
President of the United States; orders, regu-
lations, and directives of the War Depart-
ment; and the policies, programs, orders, and
directives of General Clay, the Commander-
in-Chief, European Command.

Under Headquarters, OMGUS, are the Re-
gional Offices of Military Government, each

of which is under the command and control
of a Director, who in turn is under the overall
command of General Keating, the Deputy
Military Governor. These Regional Offices
of Military Government are as follows: OMG-
Land Bavaria; OMG-Land Wuerttemberg-
Baden; OMG-Land Hesse; OMG-Land Bre-
men; and OMG-Berlin Sector. Under each
of these offices are Liaison and Security De-
tachments strategically located throughout
each Land.

The General Orders establishing this re-
organization provide that the basic mission
of EUCOM is to support OMGUS and its
subordinate units, agencies, offices, and per-
sonnel in the accomplishment of the missions
of Military Government. Supervision of con-
trol, maintenance, and care of displaced per-
sons; coordination with UNRRA and succes-
sor agencies, and supervision of coordination
of the responsibilities between the respective
echelons of command of EUCOM and OM-
GUS is continued by the Office of the Di-
rector of Civil Affairs, EUCOM, formerly
designated as the Office of Assistant Chief .
of Staff, G-5, USFET.

Under provisions of the General Orders,
General Huebner, the Deputy Commander-
in-Chief, EUCOM, and the Commanding
General, US Ground and Service Forces,
Europe, is authorized to take final action on.
matters delegated to him by the Commander-
in-Chief, EUCOM, including matters rela-
ting to the command of US Ground and
Service Forces, Europe, and to housekeeping
and security responsibilities of European
Command and its major commands, but all
undelegated matters are reserved to the
Commander-in-Chief, EUCOM.

Eight members have been named to the Of-
fice of the Commander-in-Chief, European
Command. These are:

Maj. Gen. W. A. Burres, Assistant Chief
of Staff G-2, USFET, as the Director of In-
telligence, EUCOM.

Col. J. J. Dubblede, Theater Budget Di-
rector, USFET, as the Budget and Fiscal
Director, EUCOM.

Maj. Gen. Edwin P. Parker, Jr., Theater

--- Page 10 ---
Inspector General, as the Inspector General,
EUCOM.

Ambassador Robert D. Murphy, who has
been Political Advisor to the Military Gover-
nor and Deputy Military Governor, as Pol-
itical Advisor, EUCOM.

Col. David L. Robinson, Jr., Control Of-
ficer of OMGUS, as the Director of Man-
agement Control, EUCOM.

Mr. Henry Parkman, Director of the Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS, as Gov-
ernmental Affairs Advisor, EUCOM.

Mr. Jack Bennett, formerly Director of
the Finance Division, OMGUS, as Finance
Advisor, EUCOM.

Maj. Gen. W. H. Draper, Jr., formerly
Director of the Economics Division, OMGUS,
as Economics Advisor, EUCOM.

The Director of Personnel, Office of the
Commander-in-Chief, EUCOM, will be an-
nounced later.

The growth of the organization known as
Military Government for Germany (US) to
its place in the present streamlined program
has been one of evolution. Long before the
fall of Germany much thought, planning,
and study was given to the problem of gov-
erning Germany after her defeat. But the
rapidity with which that defeat was accom-
plished threw these orderly plans badly out
of gear. Consequently it was necessary to
build and operate at the same time, so the
organization of Military Government grew
by progessive steps out of the military or-
ganization with which the defeat of Germany
was accomplished.

Beginning with SHAEF, the term for Su-
preme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary
Forces during the period when the Allies
were engaged in military operations in the
west, Military Government originated in the
US Headquarters (ETOUSA) as the G-5
General Staff Section. This was staffed by
personnel specially trained for Military
Government activities.

Then, entirely outside of the command
channel from General Eisenhower and Head-
quarters ETOUSA to the armies and army
groups in the field, there was set up the US
Group Control Council for Germany. This

anit was originally stationed at Hoechst, near
Frankfurt, but was moved to Berlin in July
1945 to act with the other occupying powers
in the Allied Control Authority, and ulti-
mately became the Office of Military Gov-
ernment for Germany (US).

Within the lower echelons of the US
Army, particularly in the Western Military
District, there was also being developed tbe
nuclei of Military Government activities.
These became the Military Government units
knows as the Offices of Military Government
for Bavaria; for Wuerttemberg-Baden; for
Hesse; for the Bremen Enclave; and for the
US Sector of Berlin.

* * *

Test of the address by General McNarney
at the ceremony 15 March follows:

As I officially place in the hands of Gen-
eral Clay the command of the United States
Forces in Europe, I wish to express my per-
sonal thanks to each individual member of
this command whose effort has made pos-
sible the success so far achieved. That suc-
cess has only been attained through the de-
votion to duty and willing cooperation of all
elements of the Occupation Force — soldier,
sailor, airman, and civilian.

To those of you who remain may I offer
the thought that you are the guardians of an
ideal for which over 155,000 Americans paid
the supreme sacrifice. Those men and women
placed upon you an obligation that cannot
and must not be lightly regarded. These
men and women, together with our Allies,
most of whom are represented here this
morning, forced the unconditional surrender
of the once powerful Nazi machine. It is
for you in cooperation with our Allies to
insure for Europe and the world a just and
lasting peace.

Much has been accomplished since May
1945, but much remains to be done. There
are only a few now here who are personally
familiar with the devastated, disorganized,
demoralized Germany that then became cur
charge. However, you all are familiar with
the progress made in demilitarization, dena-
zification, decartelization; in the restoration

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 11 ---
COOPERATIVE

G erman families who have traded at con-
sumer cooperatives for more than a cen-
tury once again may have a chance to return
to their old custom of sharing in the re-
sponsibility and profits of local stores.

When quadripartite decisions have been
reached concerning the return of cooperative
property to its rightful owners, the coopera-
tive stores will begin to function. Several
societies in the US Zone have been reestab-
lished and the opening of stores is awaiting
the ACA ruling. There are 10 newly formed
societies in Wuerttemberg-Baden; Hesse has
seven and plans to reestablish 4 or 5 more
in the next few weeks. Although these are
at present just “paper organizations,” it is
probable that their total membership in the
two Laender will exceed 300,000.

ACA approval will permit the formation
of many cooperative societies in accordance
with provisions set down by the four oc-
cupying powers. Meanwhile, in the US Zone
the minister president of each Land has been
authorized by MG to permit the voluntary
organization of cooperative associations —
provided they follow certain democratic
principles. For the time being the activities
of nontrading unions which supply auditing,
promotional, educational, and advisory serv-
ices to member societies and associations,
will be limited to a single Land. However,
trading cooperatives from oné or more Lands
will be permitted to group together into as-
sociations and operate wholesaling, storing,
manufacturing, and processing enterprises in
order to bring about economies in the
distribution of commodities to consumers.

But officials discussing consumer co-
operatives on the quadripartite level have a

R

difficult puzzle to solve before these societies
once again can function. Prior to Nazi
domination, Germany’s two great central
wholesale federations — at Cologne and
Hamburg — had member societies and
operated manufacturing plants in more than
one zone. For example, the Hamburg as-
sociation had some of its largest food pro-
ducing and packing plants in what is now
the Soviet Zone. Its properties were widely
scattered. It will be difficult to determine
how such properties can be returned to their
rightful owners, or indeed who the rightful
owners are since the ceniral federations no
longer exist.

RESTORATION PRESENTS PROBLEM

Tn addition, the return of cooperative prop-
erty is a thorny problem because member-
ship of a reorganized consumer society may
differ considerably from that of pre-Nazi
days. If, as seems desirable, title is trans-
ferred to a new consumer group whose aims
are similar to those of the former organiza-
tion, shall former members who do not belong
to the new society be compensated? What
shall be done about the restoration of whole-
sale warehouses that were operated by the
central federations — to whom shall they be
restored and how? Shall the new or re-
organized society assume charges for debts
or accretions in property value?

As for property belonging to Nazi organi-
zations, the Finance Directorate is formulat-
ing certain basic principles to be followed in
all zones. Before property can be transferred,
a new consumer society must be organized
or an old society reconstituted. Since
uniformity in all zones helps to preserve the

--- Page 12 ---
democratic character of these societies, a
Special Working Party on Consumer Co-
operative Societies was set up under the
Trade and Commerce Committee of ACA.

This group is formulating basic principles
that must be incorporated in the charters of
all consumer cooperatives — principles that
will insure democratic control and prevent
unjust discrimination.

MG officials believe that consumer co-
operatives can fill a real need in Germany’s
disorganized distribution system. Prior to
the Nazi regime, the associations were highly-
efficient distributive organizations. In this
respect, they were comparable to the chain
grocery stores in the United States. Through
their manufacturing and wholesale activities
and the expert managerial advice given to
local societies they made possible the
distribution of good, dependable merchan-
dise at reasonable prices. Many of the stores,
located in neighborhood areas away from
retail shopping centers, have escaped serious
damage. Local societies can be organized
without too much difficulty since there is a
nucleus of former members in many com-

munities around which to build. War damage,
the scarcity of goods, the difficulty of secur-
ing capable leaders, and the problems oc-
casioned by zonal barriers and an unstable
currency will make the efficiency of the re-
organized movement compare unfavorably
with that of pre-Nazi days. They may, as in
the United States, find it exceedingly dif-
ficult, if not impossible, to compete with
well-managed, privately-owned distributive
enterprises.

RISE OF GERMAN COOPERATIVES

At the time that cooperatives became
strong in Europe, competing retail organiza-
tions were notably inefficient and poorly
managed. Alihough there were local co-
operative societies in Germany as early as
1850, they did not assume much importance
until 1903, when the Central Union of Con-
sumers’ Societies (Zentral Verband deut-
scher Konsumvereine) with headquarters at
Hamburg was formed. The early societies
and most of those organized subsequently
followed the well-known democratic prin-
ciples laid down by the Rochdale pioneers

(Continued on pege 25)

--- Page 13 ---
BREMEN PORT

Gz: port of Bremen chalked up
two records this winter: the worst
weather in all its history, and the largest
number of import-export tons handled on its
docks since the war.

Two such opposing facts could not exist
had it not been for constant vigilance on the
part of American and German port authori-
ties. They recognized Germanys desperate
need and brought the imports in, even when
ice four feet thick choked the harbor, and
gales whipping the piers made working con-
ditions almost impossible for the badly-clad,
hungry workers.

In any weather, it is not easy for ocean-
going ships to reach the port of Bremen.

They must make use of rising tides in order
to have sufficiently high water for naviga-
tion. Normally there is plenty of time to
get the ships into Bremen with the rising
tide. But for the past two months the ships
were threatened by the constant danger of
getting stuck in the ice or being slowed
down by it below the point of steerability,
and thus grounded and perhaps broken in
two. So far, this has been prevented by
skillful handling and by icebreakers that
churn up and down the main shipping lane.

From a modest beginning in March 1946,
when the first three boats from Norway
arrived, the port has grown to international
importance. Ships of 10 nations -— England,

The dock area at Bremen, where ships of ten netions
delivered more than 350,000 tons of imoort goods to
« Signel_Corps_Photo

Germany during Jenuary.

--- Page 14 ---
Norway, Italy, Germany, Finland, Belgium,
Denmark, France, and Poland — docked
during the month of January 1947.” During
that freezing month, there were a record
374,849 tons of imports handled at the port
— the largest monthly amount received
under US Military Government operation.
A breakdown of the tonnage discharged
from incoming ships during that month
shows that the largest share of goods un-
loaded were destined for German civilian
agencies operating under MG control. Dur-
ing the whole period of MG port supervision,
a total of 2,220,517 tons of goods have been
received and sent, and 469 ships have made
Bremen one of their ports of call.

CONFRONTED BY ANOTHER PROBLEM

But every new arrival presents a fresh
problem to both American and German of-
ficials. Once safely in Bremen ships en-
counter another problem. In order to min-
imize fire hazards, all ships must point their
bows toward the exit of the harbor. This
makes it possible for ships to leave the

docks without delay should any danger arise.
During the last few months an area large
enough to permit ships to turn around and
back to their piers has had to be kept free
of ice. No sooner did the icebreakers clear
a channel through the ice than it froze to-
gether again. Every day tugs and icebreakers
were laid up in the repair yard with broken
propellers or other damage from the thick
ice. But in spite of these accidents, the oper-
ations have never ceased for a single hour.

DOMINATING POSITION

Although no records are available of a
more severe winter than this one, Bremen
has seen many ice-jammed Januarys and
Februarys. One of the members of the Han-
seatic League, Bremen, Hamburg, Luebeck,
and other northern ports dominated the sea-
borne commerce of northern Europe for cen-
turies. It resisted vigorously the Imperial
encroachments upon its civic and commer-
cial freedom so that, even as the Prussian
power was rising, Bremen continued to
enjoy an autonomous status. Its history ex-
plains the outward-looking, liberal spirit

The harbor of Bremen weathered an exceptionally long freezing
period during the past winter; @ channel had to be cleared
by icebreakers daily {or several months.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 15 ---
that prevails among most of its inhabitants.
Nazi policy curtailed foreign trade.in the
military interests of German self-sufficiency,
and for this reason, Bremen probably was in
all strata of its population the least Nazified
of the German. cities.

President Roosevelt and Prime Minister
Churchill agreed at the Quebec Conference
in September 1944 that US forces would
control the ports of Bremen and Bremer-
haven. Before Bremen became an MG area
in March 1946, the US Army had made good
progress in its work of salvage and repair on
the bombed and shell-wrecked cranes, -ware-
houses, and quays. The US Navy previously
had been clearing the harbor of mines and
scuttled ships.

Port development and operation under the
Bremen Port Command resulied in require-
ments for materials and labor beyond the
capacities of the Enclave area. Consequently,
an agreement was reached on 10 December
whereby the economy of the area would be
integrated into that of the surrounding
territory under British control. MG teams
operating in Bremen and Wesermuende
followed policy instructions issued by the
British authorities except in such instances
as they might interfere with the operation
of the ports.

It became the job of Military Government
to organize the port in such a way as to
handle the import-export program laid down
for Germany, Austria, and Czechoslovakia as
well as restitution to the Soviet Union, Po-
land, France, Holland, Norway, and Bel-
gium.

GERMAN RESPONSIBILITY

The protection of these import-export
goods has been entrusted to German civilian
agencies. As early as June 1946, the Ger-
mans were charged with internal administra-
tion and security of the port. The security
agencies consist of the Land Police, respon-
sible to Public Safety; the German Customs,
responsible to Finance; and the Water
Police, responsible to the Transport Division.
A few months ago, the Port Security Officer
was given responsibility over all three Ger-

12

man agencies.. He is a member of the Trans-
port Division. Together, these agencies are
responsible for security of incoming and
outgoing ‘vessels, the prevention of pilferage
on board the vessels as well as in the dock
area, and the inspection of incoming and
outgoing vessels other than those operated
by the US Army carrying army supplies,
personnel, and dependents. About 6,000 dock-
workers are handling cargo.

WATER POLICE ACTIVITIES

Heavy ice conditions in and around the
ports of Bremen have made ‘it impossible
for the boats of the German Water Police
(Wasserschutzpolizei) to operate properly.
Their activities have been limited to the
inspection of barges. They also maintain
about two hundred land patrols in and
around the'dock area. As soon as the weather
permits, the water patrols will operate again
with a total of 28 boats, ranging from small
craft to large RC rescue craft capable of
28 knots. The Water Police will be armed
for the first time and will carry American-
made 45 caliber pistols. Recently, every
boat has been équipped with a two-way
radio, making it possible to be in contact
with the shore headquarters at all times.
Three transmitters along the coast will pro-
vide permanent communication.

An important part is played by the Water
Police in preparations for a possible flood in
the Bremen area. Cooperating with other
agencies they have worked out plans for the
evacuation of approximately 1,200 people in
the endangered areas, should the necessity
arise. American and German cargo also will
have to be safeguarded.

In the future Military Government is plan-
ning to play a less active part in Bremen
port operations. Officials believe that in the
near future the German agencies will be
fully capable of carrying operational re-
sponsibility under MG supervision.

An aerial view of normal harbor operations at
Bremen; before the port could be used after the
war if was necessary to repair most of the cranes,
warehouses, and quays, and to clear the harbor

of mines and scuttled ships. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 16 ---


--- Page 17 ---
14

A? almost identical problem faced Great
Britain and the United States in 1946:
the German occupation zone of neither — if
operated upon a individual basis — could be
made self-supporting. The British Zone,
rich in coal and industries, needed food; the
US Zone, with larger food supplies available,
needed to build up its small manufacturies.

Considering the problem realistically, the
two nations decided that the only way in
which their zones could be made self-sustain-
ing would be through an economic merger
of the occupation areas as provided in the
Potsdam Agreement. Since agreement for a
quadripartite merger did not look promising
for the near future, the two countries decided
to undertake the economic merger of their
own zones.

At the time, the United States and the
United Kingdom announced emphatically
that the plan in no way could be considered
a form of political unification; rather it was

--- Page 18 ---
the carrying out of the Potsdam Agreement
as far as possible until economic agreement
could be reached on a quadripartite basis.
Both the French and Soviet authorities were
invited to join at any time in the new ar-
rangement, ,

After conferences last fall between the
Deputy Military Governors of the US and
British Zones and careful preparations for
several months by officials within the zones,
the agreement was signed in Washington on
3 December by Secretary of State James F.
Byrnes for the United States and Foreign
Secretary Ernest Bevin for the United King-
dom. The two representatives called. the
Anglo-American plan, which became effective
as of 1 January 1947, “a first step towards
the economic unification of Germany as a
whole” and expressed hope that it would
“make possible the gradual restoration of a
healthy non-aggressive German economy
which - will contribute materially to the
economic stability of Europe.”

With new organizations to carry out the
program, the US and British governments
agreed that the indigenous resources of the
bizonal area and all its imports, including
food, would be pooled in order to produce a
common standard of living. To administer the
economic unification of the two zones, and to
provide for central administration of govern-
mental functions required to make this uni-
fication effective, the respective military com-
manders were given power to set up under
their joint control the necessary German ad-
ministrative agencies.

FUNCTION OF BIPARTITE BOARD

The top bipartite agency thus formed for
the US and British Zones is the Bipartite
Board, consisting of the two Deputy Mili-
tary Governors. In addition to approving the
establishment of both Allied and German
structure for bizonal administration, the
Board reserves to itself the most important
policy decisions, including such matters as
policy on admitting foreign trade missions,
prices and subsidies, trade arrangements

with the Netherlands, and measures for in-

creasing the level of production in the coal

15

industry. The Bipartite Board has a Secre-
tariat consisting of one senior official from
each of the two powers and the necessary
administrative and clerical personnel.

Directly under the Bipartite Board are
six functional Bipartite Panels; respectively:
Food and Agriculture, Finance, Communi-
cations, Transport, Economics, and Civil
Service. These Panels are located in Berlin
and are composed of two members, who are
normally the ranking US and British repre-
sentatives. on the corresponding _ quadri-
partite Directorate. These Panels implement
the policy decisions of the Bipartite Board,
act as the senior policy-making agencies for
all matters in that particular field, and pass
on’ tothe’ Board controversial matters on
which the two members cannot agree.

CONTROL GROUPS

Directly. under the Panels are -the Control
Groups,’ each composed equally of British
and US -representatives, who meet in the
various cities of the BR/US zones which
have been established as the seats of the
various German Executive or Joint Com-
mittees. These Groups generally limit their
work to supervision, liaison, and coordi-
nation between the Berlin Bipartite Panel
and their respective German Executive Joint
Committees. The Groups also are authorized
to make certain decisions in their respective
fields on recommendations of their -respect-
ive Committees.

The German Committees are either exec-
utive or advisory in nature. In all the
fields, except those of Finance and Civil
Service, they are executive. In the latter
two fields, they are advisory and are there-
fore called “Joint” Committees. Each Com-
mittee is composed solely of Germans and
its organizational pattern is planned by
itself. Executive authority in its field, sub-
ject to MG directives and the policy of the
two nations, is to be passed to it as rapidly
as its ability to assume that power develops.

These Committees are located in’ various
cities of the two western zones. The Food
and Agriculture Committee in Stuttgart
enacts directives on various fields of food

--- Page 19 ---
CHART OF BIZONAL ORGANIZATION

<< = eo Ge —  --ee

| ee Ce ee ee Oe ei
iy es : cy. xy. o—<. ac - a

--- Page 20 ---
production and on the collecting, rationing,
and accumulating of food. This Committee
also recommends overall laws in the field of
agricultural policy, particularly as regards
settlement, real estate transactions, and
measures to assure the cultivation of land.

The Finance Committee is located in the
Frankfurt area. It considers all. financial
problems affecting more than one zone, in
particular: taxes, customs duties, and tax
jurisdiction; basic questions of financial ad-
justment, budget legislation, treasury and
accounting matters, public loans, financial
statistics; war debts and occupation costs;
legislation regarding public officials and
salaries; administration and utilization of
government, army and other blocked pro-
perty; monetary and credit matters (in par-
ticular interzonal payments and credit
transactions, banking statistics, bank super-
vision, import and export financing, se-
curities, and currency questions); and in-
surance except social insurance.

The Executive Committee for Telecom-

munications and Posts is also located at.

Frankfurt. It assumes responsibility for the
overall operation of civil communications
and postal services in the British and US
Zones of Germany, except that the following
items must have the prior approval of Mili-
tary Government: Major alterations of fun-
damental principles and extent of Post and
Telecommunications services; questions re-
lating to international Post and Telecom-
munications services; negotiations and alter-
ations of regulations as to interzonal Post
and Telecommunications services; proposals
for changes in rates; all matters concerning
research, development, and advancement of
the art of Postal and Telecommunications
activities; and changes in postage stamp
designs. In addition, the Committee cooper-
ates with Finance in various fiscal matters.
The headquarters of the Transport Com-
mittee is in Bielefeld, except for the Maritime
Ports and Coastal Shipping Branch, which is
at Hamburg. The Transport Committee is
responsible for: Enacting directives on
general transport policy; amendments or ad-
ditions to the general law relating to trans-

17

port; uniform tariff and rates policy for all
transport branches; allocation of supplies
available for the entire transport system;
uniformity in all personnel matters within
the committee’s jurisdiction; the Reichsbahn;
inland waterways affecting inter-Laender,
interzonal, and international traffic; inland
water transport; uniform regulations for
construction and maintenance of highways
required for inter-Laender, interzonal, and
international highway transport; inter-Laen-
der, interzonal, and international highway
transport; and maritime shipping, sea water-
ways, navigation marks and pilotage, with
the exception of harbor pilotage.

The Economics Committee, at Minden,
enacts directives on the basic principles of
the general German Economic Penal Law;
foreign trade; production of goods; distribu-
tion of goods; internal trade; price forma-
tion and price control; industrial standardi-
zation; economics statistics; and production,
allocation, and distribution of gas, water,
and electricity. Apart from this, the Econ-
omics Committee cooperates with the Finance
Committee in questions of bank and credit
policy as far as they affect trade and industry.

The Civil Service Committee, located at
Frankfurt, is the most recently-formed com-
mitee in the bizonal organization. It co-
ordinates personnel and civil services proce-
dures for German employees and officers of
bizonal agencies.

All four of the German executive Com-
mittees examine law proposals before the
Control Council which are referred to them,
and issue directives for the execution of
Control Council Laws and Regulations which
are referred to them for this purpose.

In addition to these bipartite Agencies
there have been created two more, the Joint
Export-Import Agency and the - Military
Governments for Germany US/UK Joint
Foreign Exchange Agency. The Joint Foreign
Exchange Agency is under the Bipartite
Finance Panel and assists in carrying out
the Panel’s duties. It opens accounts with
foreign banks into which are paid the pro-
ceeds of exporis; opens accounts with
foreign banks for such other purposes as

--- Page 21 ---
may be authorized by the Bipartiie Board;
and operates such accounts under controls
approved by the Bipartite Eoard. As its
overall duties the Joint Export-Import
Agency supervises execution of the agreed ex-
port-import program; screens requests for
imports including transfer of surplus Army
stocks to the German economy; supervises
and develops foreign trade relations with
other countries; and provides for proper bill-
ing and accounting for all exports and im-
ports and collections of proceeds from all
exports.

IMPLEMENTS POTSDAM ACCORD

When the bizonal merger went into ef-
fect, the United States and Britain announ-
ced emphatically that the new plan in no way
could be considered a form of political
unification; rather, it was the carrying out
of the Potsdam Agreement as far as pos-
sible until economic agreement could be
reached on a quadripartite basis. Both the
French and Soviet authorities were invited
to join at any time in the new arrangement.

Benefits to the US and British Zones can
readily be seen. The merger joins the
greater American food resources, both in-
digenous and imported, with the greater
coal, steel, and industrial resources of the
British Zone. The British and American
Governments are partners on a 50-50 basis
in sharing the temporary deficit for the area.
Before the merger, the US had been spend-
ing approximately $200 million a year in
Germany, largely upon food. The British
Zone, with a third greater population, had
been in even greater need of food imports.
The US government must now increase its
financial liability by $130 million the first
year, but within three years it is expected
that the combined zones will be paying for
themselves. It is estimated that the British
Zone will supply raw materials and semi-
finished goods of some $200 million a year
that are vital to production in the US Zone.

If the combined export goals are realized,
the net cost to the US will be increased sub-
stantially the first year; exports from the

18

combined zones of $675 million in 1948 will
leave the current deficit unchanged; but in
1949, exports of $900 million are expected
to eliminate the deficit. The planned export
program, which would lift the deficit, re-
quires large imports of raw materials financ-
ed first through Government channels and
later by private enterprise. Already 50,000
tons of cotton have been shipped into the
US Zone. This raw material is now being
spun and woven in German mills. Sixty
percent of the finished textiles will be ex-
ported to help meet the world shortage of
cotton goods, and the sale of these goods
will pay for the raw cotton. This is only
an example of what can be done in other
fields such as chinaware, chemicals, and
light machinery.

The role of the British Zone in the ex-
port program is twofold: First, the British
Zone will supply raw materials and semi-
finished goods that are vital to production
in the US Zone to the extent of about $192
million in 1947, $205 million in 1948, $212
million in 1949, and in increasing amounts
thereafter. This includes coal, steel, non-
ferrous metals, basic chemicals, and semi-
finished products for the export program
in the US Zone.

BENEFIT TO US ZONE

Second, in addition to materials supplied
to the US Zone for the production of ex-
ports, the US Zone will share fully the
greater export industries of the British Zone
itself. This benefit will grow as exports
are increased. On the basis of the accepted
export plan, the US share of exports from
the British Zone itself will increase from
$125 million in 1947 to approximately
$235 million in 1948 and $315 million in
1949. The gain to the US is the difference
between half of the exports from the com-
bined area and exports from the US Zone,
which figure is estimated as $75 million in
1947, $137 million in 1948, and $175 million
in 1949. Thus, by merging with the British
Zone and sharing the liability for greater
food imports for two years, the US Zone
becomes a part of a self-sufficient area.

--- Page 22 ---
Position of Advisory Parliament

DMG Sees Further Governmental Responsibility Assumed by Germans;
Urges Minimum of Zone-wide Legislation in Speech to Laenderrat

(Following is the speech delivered by Lt.
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, speaking as Deputy
Military Governor, at the 18th meeting of
the Laenderrat at Stuttgart, 12 March.)

I would first like to thank the Ministers
President for postponing their meeting from
last Tuesday until today. It has made it pos-
sible for me to be here and I wanted to be
here for the first meeting of the Advisory
Parliament.

I feel that the creation of this Advisory
Parliament is another step forward in the
assumption of governmental responsibility
by yourselves for your people. As you
know, under your own constitutions you
have been given the responsibility for State
Government. However, in the absence of a
national constitution there are certain types
and kinds of laws which must be enacted
uniformly throughout the US Zone of Oc-
cupation. In addition, there will be certain
laws that will have to be enacted concur-
rently in the American and British Zones to
carry out the economic policies of the bizonal
agencies.

We believe that it is your wish and it is
certainly our purpose to hold such legis-
lation to a minimum, thus leaving to the
states as much legislation as is possible.

Iam sure that in your capacity as an ad-
visory parliament acting as a connecting link
with the State Parliaments, you will be most
helpful to the Ministers President in this
particular field. Each and every law enacted
by the Laenderrat must be examined care-
fully to be sure that it does not enter into
the field of State legislation. Of course, it is
equally important that State legislation not
be enacted which is in conflict with uniform
legislation needed for the Zone as a whole.
In the absence of a central government the
Laenderrat is, of course, charged with enact-
ing uniform legislation throughout the US

19

Zone. In doing this, it will now have the
benefit of your advice; advice, representing
the State Parliaments. I am sure that you
will always bear in mind that you can serve
your State well by looking at. every problem
for the good of the whole.

‘When legislation has been adopted by the
Laenderrat and has been approved by Mil-
itary Government, it then may be issued by
the Ministers President by legislative decree.
The problem of deciding whether a law is
to be a State law or a Laenderrat law is a
continuing one and must be reexamined with
each proposal. For example, we have been
working over a period of months with the
Laenderrat for the preparation of a press
law. This law has been reexamined in the
light of four new constitutions. As a result,
and in spite of all the work that has been
put upon the law, we have decided that it is
not necessary for such a law to be uniform
in its details, although, obviously, it must be
uniform in its principles. We are, therefore,
returning this Laenderrat law to the Minis-
ters President and asking that it be brought
up in each of the State Parliaments. We
hope that in so doing, you will follow the
principles laid down in the law enacted by
the Laenderrat, and we request that State
legislation on this subject be enacted by
1 July of this year. I bring this case up
purposely to show you the importance we
attach to preserving the legislative powers
and rights of the several States.

IT have one other subject that I would like
to discuss briefly with you today. You
have been through a very severe winter.
Transportation conditions have made it al-
most impossible to move coal to keep indus-
try going at the rate it was going last fall.
Transportation difficulties have also made it
difficult to equalize the distribution of food.
This rather warm weather that I find here
in Stuttgart after leaving Berlin makes me

--- Page 23 ---
\
feel that I can speak in an optimistic vein.
During the last two months coal has stock-
piled on the ground. Grain has come into
Bremen at the rate of 300,000 tons per
month. With the opening of the waterways
and the improvement of rail transportation
which will follow warm weather, there
should be no longer any problem in the dis-
tribution of food, and coal should be avail-
able to make a substantial increase in in-
dustry over the last several months of bad
weather. We must look forward now to
planning to stockpile some of this coal to
carry us through next winter in case it
should prove to be as severe as this one.
However, I think I can say with perfect
safety that the food and coal situations look
better now than at any time since the oc-

cupation started. I am sure that you have
been through your most severe winter.

In completion I would like to say that it
has meant a great deal to me to be here today
at the first meeting of the Advisory Parlia-
ment. As an Advisory Parliament you can
do much to continue the progress toward
democratic government. The Laenderrat
will welcome and give careful attention to
your advice. I assure you that Military
Government will watch your deliberations
with great interest. I am equally sure that
as an Advisory Parliament you will point
the way to the establishment of a Parliament
for Germany at a not too distant date. As
you conduct yourselves so you will speed the
day when you will have parliamentary gov-
ernment for Germany.

THEATER REORGANIZATION PLAN (Continued from page 7)

of communications, transport, and public
utilities; in achieving a limited but still sub-
stantial industrial production; in reestab-
lishing the German school system; in promo-
ting youth activities; and in turning back to
the Germans themselves substantial responsi-
bilities for self-rule through freely elected
governmental administrators. You have seen
our powerful combat forces contract into an
occupational force responsible for creating
an atmosphere of law and order conducive to
the peaceful development of a nation whose
people are still engaged primarily with the
problems of obtaining food, fuel, and ade-
quate housing.

We are now entering the second phase of
the task—the longterm job of guidance of
the German people in their economic, poli-
tical, and social rehabilitation according to
democratic principles. This is your job.
Through example and precept you must
guide the German people towards a demo-
cracy with desires to live at peace with her
neighbors. By firmness tempered with jus-
tice you must prevent the rise of lawless or
undemocratic elements in order that the Ger-
mans shall not stray from the path of demo-
cratic procedures upon which they have been
started. The road back for the German

20

people will be long and hard. They need
your assistance.

One other task of major importance still
confronts you. I refer to the several hundred
thousand unfortunate individuals who
through Nazi greed and cruelty have been
uprooted from their homes. These people
are now in temporary haven in the US
Zone. You must complete the humanitarian
task of their repatriation or resettlement.

Let me again say — we have accomplished
much, but much remains to be done. The
task of liquidating the most powerful ex-
peditionary force the world has ever known,
of developing an occupational force and of
governing and rehabilitating a demoralized
nation has been fought with what at times
seemed insurmountable problems. In meeting
and overcoming these problems I have been
most fortunate in always being able to call
upon my commanders, my staff, and my
troops, with the knowledge that somehow the
problem would be solved. le Ks the functions
of Military Government were progressively
to a greater and greater extent separated
from the purely military function, one indi-
vidual in the theater assumed more and more
responsibility for the economic, political, and
social rehabilitation of Germany. That man

--- Page 24 ---
is General Clay. Therefore, it is only fitting
that as Military Government assumes the
dominant role of the US Forces in Europe,
he should assume complete responsibility.
I know of no man either in or out of the
military forces who is better qualified for
the job. With the firm conviction that with
your assistance and the leadership of Gen-
eral Clay, the United States will honor her
sacrifice in the winning of the war by finish-
ing the job in Germany, I say thanks, good
bye, and good luck.
* * *

Text of the speech of General Clay, ac-
cepting the command of the US Forces in
Europe from General McNarney, follows:

In accepting from your hands the command
of United States Forces in Europe, I am
grateful that my last action as your deputy

can be to express its appreciation for your

remarks.

You have stated your satisfaction with
your command. I can only say that while I
assume the responsibilities which you have
borne with humility, I am proud to command
the forces which you now turn over to my
hands.

Your period of command has been event-
ful. It has witnessed the completion of
redeployment and the development of mil-
itary forces designed specifically to meet the
problems of occupation. It has witnessed
substantial progress in the accomplishment
of Allied objectives in the Military Govern-
ment of Germany as well as the crystaliza-
tion of American policy which looks to the
establishment of a peaceful German State.

Your record of leadership in this trying
period is even now engraved in the pages of
history.

As you have said, much remains to be
done. We can think of no way in which we
can better show our respect and regard for
you than to assure you that we will press
forward in the pattern which you have
established to carry out faithfully the ob-
Jectives which keep us here.

All of us are grateful for the support and
understanding we have had from you. You
have returned loyalty with loyalty.

2

You have contributed so much to our task
in Germany that I hesitate to cite a specific
reference. However, I think I would be re-
miss if I did not refer to the special interest
which you have given to the rehabilitation
of German youth. At a time when highways
were crowded with wandering, homeless Ger-
man youth and our program was retarded
by shortages of personnel and equipment,
you made the resources of the army avail-
able to the program. We have no more im-
portant task in Germany. Under your
leadership and with the cooperation of all
Americans in Germany, to include not only
our civilian and military personnel but also
our families, we have made progress. This
may well prove our most important contri-
bution to the growth of democracy in Ger-
many.

You have stated you were always able to
call upon your commanders, your staff, and
your troops in the knowledge that somehow
the problem at hand would be solved. The
confidence which you gave to them made
their problems easier to resolve for they had
like confidence in you.

This same confidence you carry with you
to your new assignment. We think it fitting
and we are proud that our commander goes
from us to join the organization of the United
Nations charged with the establishment of
world security. Now for the first time in
world history, its chosen military leaders are
planning for security forces to preserve peace
and not for military alliances to wage war.

Here in Germany, our Forces are devoted
to the tasks of peace. We shall continue our
work in full hope that when our mission is
completed, peace and security will have been
guaranteed throughout the world by the
United Nations.

“Good-byes are always difficult. This
time, our goodbye is made easier because we
know that you will continue in a broader
way to work for a peaceful world. You
carry with you the fervent hope of your com-
mand for success in the task ahead and its
sincere wishes for the happiness and content
which comes from the completion of a task
well done.”

--- Page 25 ---
Germany's Air War Potential

Germany’s potential for waging aggres-
sive aerial war has been largely removed by
quadripartite action, according to a state-
ment issued recently by the Armed Forces
Division, OMGUS. Principal efforts now are
directed at forging controls which will pre-
vent a future German Blitzkrieg and at the
same time allow the defeated nation to
become a link in the world’s peacetime air-
lines.

Elimination of Germany’s air war potential
has become a basic responsibility of the Com-
bined Services Directorate of the Allied
Control Authority. Other directorates have
been consulted in connection with destruc-
tion or disposal of aircraft, airfields, and air
weapons.

The statement added that this disarma-
ment phase is now essentially complete: All
of the more than 4,000 German aircraft and
30,000 enginees captured in the US Zone
have been destroyed, surplus airfields re-
turned to agriculture, and special equipment
destroyed or converted to peacetime use.

Nevertheless, certain basic controls over
Germany’s air potential must continue in-
definitely. For example, the Air Forces
Branch, working with British, Russian, and
French air branches, helps keep check on
certain of the more military ex-members of
the outlawed German Air Force. The four
powers seek especially to avoid militaristic
infiltration into such organizations as
schools and athletic clubs.

One result of quadripartite cooperation in
regulation of civil aviation has been sub-
stantial promotion of air safety within Ger-
many. A Commitiee on Flying Safety for
the Greater Berlin area has adopted uniform
regulations, established airdrome traffic
zoves and air traffic rules.

Uniform applications of flight rules and
control is ensured by the Berlin Air Safety
Center, located in the Allied Control

22

Authority building and opera
the four occupying powers as the air traffic
control center for the area. ‘

Navigation facilities are coordinated and
are being improved. Recently, for example,
a radio range has been placed in operation at
Belzig, in the Soviet Zone, to increase navi-
gational accuracy on the Berlin-Frankfurt
corridor.

Requisitioned Housing

The 47-room Hohenbuchau castle near
Wiesbaden, recently used as a Red Cross
recreation center, has been turned over to

the German administration for use as a head-

quarters and official hotel for the state
legislature of Hesse.

In line with a policy of maximum re-
trenchment in the number of housing units
requisitioned for military use, a total of 88
properties in the Wiesbaden area have been
released to the German economy since 1 Oc-
tober. These include 60 residences, one hotel,
six cafes and restaurants, three motor pool
areas, and one riding academy in Wiesbaden,
as well as additional properties in four other
towns in the area.

Border Police Supervision

Operational supervision of US Zone Ger-
man border police passed from the US Con-
stabulary to the US Office of Military Gov-
ernment on 15 March, with a consequent
transfer of responsibility for US Zone border
control, according to a USFET announce-
ment. Constabulary troops will continue to
man border crossing points used by persons
over whom German police have no power of
arrest, and will retain responsibility for US
Zone military security including areas ad-
jacent to zone borders. When necessary to
accomplish this mission, the Constabulary
will support German border police and con-
tinue to conduct border examinations,

--- Page 26 ---
searches, and spot checks. Existing MG reg-
ulations pertaining to the extent of author-
ity of German border police will remain the
same. The change involves only a transfer
of responsibility, while existing policy
directives remain unchanged.

Personnel Changes

Dr. Edward H. Litchfield has been ap-
’ pointed director of the Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, effective 15 March, 1947.
Dr. Roger H. Wells is named acting director
of the division during the absence of Dr.
Litchfield to attend the Moscow Conference
of Foreign Ministers.

Ellsworth Wolfsperger, for many years a
specialist in American public personnel pro-
cedures, was named chief of the Civil Serv-

‘ice Branch of the Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS. He is responsible for
supervision of the German effort to build a
democratic civil service in the Laender and
local governments of the US Zone. Mr.
Wolfsperger succeeds Lt. Colonel Howard P.
Jones, now chief of the Public Finance
Branch, Finance Division, OMGUS.

Lt. Col. Charles F. Heasty, Jr., has been
appointed acting Secretary General, OM-
GUS, replacing Col. William Whipple.

MG Laws No. 52 and 53

MG Laws No. 52 and 53 remain in effect
in the US Zone although the US Government
has authorized the removal of Germany from
the Trading with the Enemy Act so far as
current transactions are concerned, OMGUS
has announced, Similar laws are effective in
the other zones of occupation.

MG Laws No. 52 and 53 prohibit trans-
actions between persons in and outside Ger-
many as well as transactions in property
within Germany belonging to persons outside
Germany except as licensed by the respective
Military Governments.

The Joint Export-Import Agency (US-
UK) will now authorize persons in the US-
UK Zones of Germany to contract with per-
sons outside Germany for the export of
merchandise under a special type of con-
tract which will contain certain standard

terms and conditions to be announced later.
All foreign exchange, however, or all other
value accruing outside Germany involving
the two zones shall be solely for the account
of the US-UK Military Governments. Con-
tracts which may be currently signed by
German suppliers must be reviewed by the
Joint Export-Import Agency (US-UK).

OMGUS is also prepared to authorize the
appointment by persons in the United
Nations and neutral countries, except Spain
and Portugal, of agents of their own choos-
ing within Germany to assume custody and
control of the property of the foreign owner.
Thereafter the agent will be permitted the
direct management of their property by the
foreign owners, provided that the agent has
been properly denazified and that the
property will continue to be operated per-
suant to all existing German and MG laws
and policies.

No communications, however, will be
authorized involving German external assets
or which would have the effect of accruing
any foreign resources except as authorized by
the two Military Governments.

The removal of Germany from the Trad-
ing with the Enemy Act is a step forward
in re-establishing normal trade relations
between Germany and the outside world, but
Military Government will continue to exer-
cise a measure of control over the final trans-
actions in order to carry out Government
policy and to conserve foreign exchange
proceeds.

Banking Service Authorized

The American Express Company has been
authorized to conduct a limited banking serv-
ice for American personnel stationed in
Germany beginning 15 March. Offices for
this service are to be opened in Bremen,
Wiesbaden, Berlin, and Vienna. Checking
and depositing accounts services will be
furnished and checkbooks may be acquired
at any branch office. Savings accounts will
not be available. Payment of local bills will
be taken care of through this service and
cables may be procured for sending money
to the United States.

--- Page 27 ---
Significance of Present Events

To Germany's Future Discussed

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) wrote
that the Moscow Conference will certainly
not result in shaping the German peace
treaty, but emphasized its importance for
Europe:

“Moscow is confronted with the task of
achieving a constructive agreement among
the Eastern and Western powers. A failure
of this attempt might result ultimately in a
separation of Germany into a Western and an
Eastern half. The gravity of such a disaster
is unimaginable. But the fate of Germany
— and Europe — demands a decision. It will
no longer be satisfied with interim solu-
tions .. .”

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung debunked ru-
mors and secret German hopes such as “The
Americans are going to take Silesia and
Pomerania away from the Russians (who do
not have it at all) . . . We may be able to
draw profit from the incomprehensible pre-
dilection of the Ivans for a German Saar
District . . . and the Czechoslovaks are soon
going to realize that they can’t get along
without the Sudeten Germans, so we'll soon
be rid of the whole onerous brood of expel-
Tees.”

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten believed that
the Deputy Military Governor’s words about
the “Soviet Stock Company” being “the only
foreign monopoly in Germany” must remain
incomprehensible to many Germans. So the
paper undertook to explain:

“The Soviet Union started to transfer Ger-
man works on German soil into Russian
State property. The gigantic industrial trust
so created comprises today at least 200 en-
terprises . . . all iron works, all railroad and
automobile factories, 80 per cent of metal
works, 70 per cent of optical and fine me-
chanic works, 50 per cent of locomotive and
engine fabrication. The Soviet AG has ab-

tion . . . The total output of the So
goes to the Soviet Union.”

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-
bischofsheim), commented on Marshal Soko-
lovsky’s remark on US loans to Germany. He
called them “slavery credits,” the paper said,
adding:

“Every German who kept a clear head
must regard this expression as completely
misplaced. We are hungry, but without
American assistance we would have starved.
We suffer under severe economic distress,
but if the US, instead of lending help, had
done in the war-ravaged West that which
was done in the East we could all have laid
down and died.”

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) commented
on a causal connection between the lack of
books in Germany and budding underground
activity:

“It would be unjust to regard the incor-

rigibility of the Germans as definite as long
as no systematic attempt has been made to
correct their thinking. It is almost in-
credible how MG and the Land governments
have shunned an elementary part of reedu-
cation: (They have failed) to give to a people
that is hungry for books and ready to read
and therefore malleable in its thinking those
books from which it could have learned polit-
ically...

“We have a plethora of periodicals . . .
but what we do not have (though it may
sometimes seem just as essential as imported
grain) are mass editions of books that every
German ought to have read in order to see
himself and his time more clearly than
was heretofore the habit . . . Why does one
not publish, for instance, Heiden’s Hitler
biography in millions of copies and dis-

tribute it for a small price to the German_

public?
“Tf anywhere money should play no role
it would be here . . .”

--- Page 28 ---
CONSUMER COOPERATIVES (Continued from page 9)

in England in 1844. Membership was open
to all; each member had one vote — and only
one vote — regardless of the number of
shares that he owned; merchandise was sold
at market prices; the return on a member’s
stock investment was limited to prevailing
legal rates; and net profits were distributed
among members in proportion to their pur-
chases. Education in the aims and objectives
of consumer cooperatives was stressed and
training schools for store executives and
employees were maintained. Their edu-
cational and social activities were not as
extensive, however, as in the societies in
Great Britain.

The consumer cooperative movement in
Germany prior to the assumption of power
by the Nazis was second only to that in
Great Britain in importance. Members
belonged to local societies which owned and
operated the stores and these organizations
were, in turn, grouped into local associations.
Approximately 65 percent of these associa-
tions belonged either to the Hamburg or
Cologne federation. Complete data are
available only on the membership of these
two federations.

COMPOSITION OF MEMBERSHIP

Workers and employees in industry made
up approximately 70 percent of the member-
ship in the Hamburg association and 50 per-
cent in the Cologne association. Most of
these were also members of the trade unions;
those in the Hamburg group belonged to the
Free Trade Unions and those in Cologne to
the Christian Trade Unions. The next largest
group, professional men and government
employees, accounted for 9 percent of the
membership in the former association and 31
percent in the latter. Neutrality was main-
tained, at least officially, in religious and
political matters.

In 1931, there were 13,575 cooperative
stores with a total membership of ap-
proximately 3,750,000 families in these two
central associations. It is estimated that the
stores served 24 percent of the people in

Germany and transacted around five percent
of the retail trade. Their total combined
sales were over RM 1,000,000,000. The
major part of their sales were in food prod-
ucts, although household goods and cloth-
ing were carried by some of the stores.

The Central Union of Consumers’ Societies
(Zentralverband deutscher Konsumvereine) at
Hamburg was the stronger of the two federa-
tions and was the third largest cooperative
group in Europe. In 1932, it had 949 local
associations as members and the sales of the
retail stores in the group amounted to nearly
RM 945 million. The National Union of
Consumers’ Societies (Reichsverband deut-
scher Konsumvereine) in Cologne reported
263 member associations, whose total sales
volume was over RM 180,000,000 in 1931.

MULTIPLE OPERATIONS

Societies belonging to both central organ-
izations operated their own wholesales,
which engaged in manufacturing activities
and sold goods under their own private
brand names, the “GEG” label being used by
the Hamburg group and the “GEPAG” label
by the Cologne organization. For example,
the Cooperative Wholesale Society at Ham-
burg in 1932 had two fish canneries, eight
meat-products plants, four flour mills, two
macaroni factories, two mills making malt-
coffee, seven tobacco factories, two soap
factories, two match factories, and two cloth-
ing factories. It also produced or packed
vegetables and food preserves, cocoa and
chocolate, chemicals, cheese, textiles, and
lumber. It operated a large farm, a weaving
and dyeing shed for cloth, and a stationery
and printing plant. It produced approxi-
mately 40 percent of the merchandise it sold
to its consumer societies. The manufacturing
activities of the wholesale purchasing organ-
ization at Cologne were not so extensive.
Some of the retail associations belonging to
these two central groups were also engaged
in manufacturing activities, with meat and
bakery goods the most important products.
Most of the consumer societies operated sav-

--- Page 29 ---
ings departments for the convenience of
customers and funds thus accumulated were
used in financing the business.

Consumer cooperatives began to decline in
importance in the early thirties, due primarily
to Nazi hostility towards the movement.
Their total sales in 1936 were less than half
as large as in 1932. Their philosophy, based
on democratic procedures, was in direct con-
flict to that of National Socialism, and the
Nazis by a series of decrees wrecked the
movement. In August 1933, the Nazis merged
the two central associations and their whole-
salers. The new organization, called the
“Reichsbund der deutschen Verbraucher-
Genossenschaften,” was managed by govern-
ment appointees. Member voting was abolish-
ed and party members were placed in all
of the key positions. The Reichsbund was
divided into 11 regional unions, each in -the
virtual control of a commissioner.

MOVEMENT RESTRICTED

The law of August 1933, destroying the
democratic character of the movement was
followed by several decrees, which made non-
operative nearly all of the Rochdale prin-
ciples upon which the cooperatives had been
founded. For example, in 1934, the distribu-
tion of net profits among members in pro-
portion to their purchases was prohibited.
In 1935, a law was passed providing for the
liquidation of savings accounts and pro-
hibiting the formation of new cooperative
societies without the permission of the
Minister of Economics. Seventy-two of the
largest associations were forced to liquidate
in whole or in part on the grounds that they
were unsound financially.

These decrees culminated in the death-
warrant decree of 28 February 1941, by
which the properties and funds of the con-
sumer cooperatives were taken over by the
German Labor Front (DAF). The money
that members had paid for their shares of
stock was returned, but there is no informa-
tion as to what was done with the savings
deposits. The properties and assets of the
DAF in the US Zone were taken over by
Military Government on 22 July 1945. The

Property Control Branch of OMGUS assumed
responsibility for consumer enterprises
belonging to the DAF and placed German
custodians over them. Many of the stores,
and some of the manufacturing plants as
well, have continued to operate under the
supervision of Property Control.

Because of the democratic principles under
which the organizations operated in pre-
Nazi days — from the local one-store
societies to the large associations — con-
sumer cooperatives should be of service,
indirectly, in educating postwar Germany in
democratic principles. They could be of
more direct service in this respect if their
educational and community activities were
stressed as they are in the British societies.
While participation in open meetings of
members may offer a fertile training ground
in the more rudimentary principles of democ-
racy, it will be chiefly the heads of families
who benefit unless the system of membership
is changed.

Considerable impetus was given to the
consumer cooperative movement recently by
the visit of representatives of the Inter-
national Cooperative Alliance who were in
Hamburg on 24—25 January and in Berlin
on 27—28 January 1947. This alliance of
national cooperative organizations, formed
in 1895, represented prior to the war some
85,000 societies in 36 countries. A meeting
in Berlin of those interested in the co-
operative movement was held on 27 January.
Plans have been laid for the reestablishment
of cooperative stores in Berlin. The rep-
resentatives of the ICA visited all four
zones for the purpose of conferring with
former German leaders in the movement.

Ration Substitute

The Bipartite Food and Agriculture Con-
trol Group has advised that the German
Executive Office has issued instructions to
German officials authorizing the substitution
in Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden of sugar
for meat through the 98th period. The ration
is 100 grams of meat to 40 grams of sugar.

--- Page 30 ---
Aid to Greece Seen as Chance
To Implement US Objectives

Many American newspapers, commenting
on the urgent problem of aid to Greece, have
observed that the need for the United States
to formulate and carry out a policy in this
case constitutes both an opportunity and a
challenge to demonstrate US ability and
determination to implement announced ob-
jectives for securing world peace. A calm,
considered long-range aid policy, they say,
would be reflected in a more democratic and
prosperous Greece.

Some papers also expressed the hope that,
sooner or later, the Greek problem could be
presented to the United Nations for solution.

New York Herald Tribune said in part:
“What is unquestionably a direct, though
long-term, challenge to the bases of American
policy is being discussed as if it were a
question of ‘bailing out’ the British Empire,
of relieving the United Kingdom or even of
propping up the somewhat motheaten Mon-
archy of Greece. All such considerations are
equally beside the point. If there is any-
thing to be ‘bailed out’ here it is not the
British Empire; it is simply and solely the
foreign policy of the United States — in
which we already have an investment of
some 300,000 lives and 300 billion dollars
or so. If there is anything to be propped up,
it is in the first instance the security, the
influence, the adequacy of the American
system in the world of today ...

“The real task — and it is an inspiring
task — which here presents itself . . . is the
task of making free-enterprise democracy
possible in Greece (without the need for
either kings or gendarmerie) by giving the
country a viable basis on which to stand and
from which to supply the human needs of its
people.

“In itself that would be a moving chal-
lenge, a challenge similar (in some ways, but
only in some) to that which this country met

nearly fifty years ago when
confidence and energy, we accep

of bringing the best our system could o:
to the people of the Philippine Islands.

“Sut this is a question neither of nine-
teenth century romantic imperialism nor of
a mere altruistic rescue expedition. Greece
is one of the decisive points at which the
future shape of the world will be determined.
It is a key position, not so much in military
as in political and moral strategy. The Soviet
Union has a great deal to offer to the peoples
of the world. But so has the American
Union. Dire poverty, dislocation, un-
certainty will take what they can get; they
will take the Soviet order and systematiza-
tion if nothing else is available, but they will
take the democratic freedom and productive
power if those things are made real and ef-
fective in their lives.

“Whether or not we can find the con-
fidence and energy to export our freedoms,
our skills, our productive power (as Britain
once did) will largely determine the next
phase of world history and will certainly
determine the fate of our own system. The
Greek crisis is admittedly only a beginning;
a loan of $250 million there would not ap-
roach the end of the commitments the times
may challenge us to make. But if we lack
the courage or foresight even to make the
beginning; then the end, for ourselves, will
be easily predictable. Strength is given in
this world to be used; hoarded, it evapo-
rates.”

Christian Science Monitor: “(World af-
fairs) are driving home io Americans the
pivotal political fact of this age. It is that
the United States must assume a vaster, a
more positive, purposeful, determined, and
indeed consecrated role in world affairs than
even the most enlightened of its leaders could
foresee at war’s end.

“Much of the know-how for this role

has yet to be acquired. But even before
the need for know-how comes a need for

--- Page 31 ---
widespread and deep conviction among the
American people that the only way around
the woods of current. international confu-
sion is straight through them . . . to real-
ly get ‘the feel’ of the situation in which
they find themselves, Americans may have
to go back to lend-lease days. Then the
United States was the arsenal of democracy
under fire. Now it is the powerhouse of
the democratic idea in a world where that
idea still faces many challenges. The first
step is for Americans to accept with their
hearts as well as their heads their ines-
capable postwar task. They must do so
for the world’s sake and for their own.”

Cleveland Plain Dealer: “Questions (about
US aid policy to Greece) cannot be answer-
ed without thought, without more knowledge
on the part of the public, without serious
and non-partisan discussion in Congress...
It is evident that American policy has reach-
ed the parting of the ways. No longer can
foreign policy be improvised from day to
day or even from conference to conference
.... This may be America’s hour of des-
tiny. The political seed sown by the war
is ripening. We will either gather the har-
vest for freedom and the dignity of man or
historians may look back upon this period
as the beginning of the decline of another
civilization.”

Louisville Courier-Journal: “The challenge
to us to make a fateful decision is not so
abrupt as it appears. The ultimate neces-
sity should have been foreseen months, even
years back .... the late President Roose-
velt in 1938 braved a complacent and un-
awakened public opinion by his proposal to
quarantine aggressor nations. Our commit-
ment to become the arsenal of democracy
was part and parcel of the germinating
knowledge — the knowledge that the United
States... must concern itself with privilege
and freedom for the under-privileged and
oppressed eleswhere in the world. We must
do this, we decided, or find ourselves con-
demned, rejected, despised — and attacked,
as in the end we were .. .

“The world was informed (in Byrnes’
Stuttgart speech) that the United States

would be firm, resolute and consecrated in
defense of the things it believes in, no mat-
ter where the issues were drawn. The ef-
fect of this speech was noteworthy. But its
salutary effect would be swiftly dissipated
if we refuse to give meaning to the words,
now that a test has come. The respect that
we invoke, the peace which only this respect
will guarantee, would be lost.”

New York Post: “We have no choice but
to help, and thereby protect ourselves. What
we should never forget, however, is that
giving material aid to an existing govern-
ment is not enough. We cannot shirk. the
responsibility of seeing that our contribu-
tions serve the people. The government so
aided must be required to live up to certain
standards — as the royalist government in
Greece notably has failed to do.”

Indianapolis Star: “Congressional leaders
must make plain to the world that the A-
merican people stand firmly behind our
statesmen’s efforts to save freedom, demo-
cracy and human liberties from the pound-
ing pressures of hunger, misery, revolt and
communist conspiracy. We can do it if our
leaders show the greatness of spirit the -
times demand. We can do it if we are will-
ing to support those leaders . . .”

Philadelphia Inquirer: “Any job we might
attempt in Greece would have to be only
in the interests of world peace, in which
our own interests lie. It would have to be an
honest effort to give true democracy a
chance to get into action to rescue the he-
roic Greek people from civil war and eco-
nomic disaster.”

Among several papers urging that the
United Nations take over the Greek prob-
lem was the Des Moines, Iowa, Register
which said in part: “The United Nations
was designed to handle just such situations
. . . the creation of forces with responsibility
not to national governments but to the Uni-
ted Nations itself has been delayed long
enough. As touchy as the situation in Greece
is, it is not as explosive as many which are
bound io arise. The only way to become
proficient in collective action is to practice
it.”