--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 83 / 10 MARCH 1947

¥ ‘

DOCUMENT CENTER . :

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG

FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,
OBER =
LAHNKREIS

oss FRIEDBERG
re QBERTAUNUS|
7,

OFFENBACH

GROSS~

DIEBURG

AUBERBISCH
OFSHEIM

a

DARMSTAD”

BERGSTRASSE

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

» ©
WEEKLY

MBUNETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Return of Military Personnel to the Zone of Interior
and of Dependents of Such Personnel .

Courses of Instructicn at the European Theater Intelli-

gence School .

Disbandment Directive Nowe

Individual Transportation in the European Theater .
Promotion of Enlisted Personnel

Hunting and Fishing Policy .

Physical Reclassification of Officers .

Security of US Mail

Qualifications for Enlistment of Former Officers
Rations Furnished to Indigenous Personnel
Troop Information Program for Officers

Revision of MGR Title 5, Section B, ‘German Legis-

lation”

AG 210.31 GAP-AGP
4 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 352 GBI-AGO
4 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 383.6 GAP-AGO
5 Feb 1947, USFET
Circular No. 9

10 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 220.2 GAP-AGP
14 Feb 1947, USFET
Circular No. 11

15 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 201.5 AGP-B

15 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 311.1 AGM-AGO
20 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 340 GAP-AGP-B
20 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 091.714 (AG)

25 Feb 1947, OMGUS
AG 353 (PO)

25 Feb 1947, OMGUS
AG 010.6 (LD)

1 Mar 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
Germany's Workshop

“5] Barter Organizations

MG Officials Meet the German Press

Photo by Rosenberg

DOCUMENT CENTER — The picture on this
week's cover shows a section of the files at®
one of Berlin's two large document centers.
The files shown here deal with persons forced

Occupation Problems Appraised
Stock Exchanges

by the Nazis to adopt German citizenship, one Bizonal Policy Explained
of several classitications of persons on whom
records are maintained.  - ei GENERAL

: GERMAN REACTIONS

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Stock Exchanges was prepared by-G. B,
Erdmann ot the Financial Institutions Branch,
Finance Division, OMGUS. The article deals
with the reactivation of the three US Zone
exchanges at Munich, Frankfurt, and ene
under MG supervision.

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

The material for Barter Organizations was
submitted by the Price Control and Distgibution
Section, Trade and Commerce Branch, Econom:
ics Division of OMG Wuertlemberg-Baden.
‘The story describes how the US Zone barter’
centers and ring exchanges’ function fo the -
general benefit of the German people.

Germany's Workshop was written by Arthur
Sette!, Public Relations Officer of the Economics -
Division, OMGUS, after a trip through the US
Zone with a group of correspondents to deter-
mine to what extent the projected export pro-
gram for 1947 can be implemented.

10
13
14
19

25
27

--- Page 7 ---
by Arthur Settel

G ive us the raw materials and we will
pay for the food which you are import-
ing to feed us.”

This statement summarizes the opinions of
German industrial leaders throughout the
US Zone as to how long it will take the
German economy to get back on a paying
basis.

A group of American correspondents, in-
terested in determining the extent to which
the hundred million dollar export program
projected by Military Government for 1947
can be implemented, made a comprehensive
tour last month of key export industries in
Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden, and Bavaria.
Chey interviewed OMG and German eco-
nomics officials as well as factory managers

GERMANY'’S

RKSHOP

and technicians. They examined the three
export expositions in Wiesbaden, Stuttgart.
and Munich, and visited factories ranging
in size from the great engineering plant at
the Robert Bosch Works in Wuerttemberg
to one-man wood handicraft establishments
in Oberammergau. With its processing and
finishing facilities the US Zone will become,
it is hoped, the workshop of Germany.

The question repeatedly posed by the
newspapermen was: “Do you think it cap
be done?” The response was consistently the
same. ‘We have the know-how. We have
the manpower. We have the equipment. Give
us the raw materials, particularly the coal.
and we can pay our own way.”

OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK

The OMGUS scheme to build up a self-
supporting economy and a tolerable living
standard was widely viewed as within the
possibility of achievement. The economic
fusion of the British and American Zones
appeared as the first step toward eventual
economic unification of all Germany.

The weather had practically paralyzed
most industry in the Zone this winter so the
party found conditions at their worst. All
of Central Europe lay in the grip of the
worst winter in 25 years. Germany’s prin-
cipal waterways, including the Rhine, upon
which much of the country depends for coal
transport, were at low ebb, and frozen solid.
To Germany’s economy this double check-
mate meant practically no coal when it was
most needed, no power from hydrogenera-
tion, and no production.

Prevailing conditions did not augur wel!
for the export program which had been an-
nounced only a few days before. Production
in Wuerttemberg-Baden, center of fabrica-

--- Page 8 ---
position illustrate some of the things Germany will have to offer for export in the near future.

Cy

tlun uf silver, Qoavy aachinery aud tuvis
soda ash, and luxury goods, was greatly re-
duced. Hesse seemed headed for complete
paralysis. Bavaria, breadbasket of the US
Zone, could not move out large stockpiles
of potatoes, while its industries were send-
ing out frantic distress signals.

But in spite of the gloomy atmosphere in
which the party made its tour, the stop-
pages were manifestly seasonal and could not
last long enough to cripple permanently the
export program.

A tradition of 175 years stands behind
the craftsmanship and skill demonstrated
at any one of the 800 odd leather goods
establishments, most of them small, in and
around Offenbach, a few miles outside of
Frankfurt-am-Main. The proprietor of one
of the largest plants stated the industry,
which had 25,000 workers and an annual
prewar output of RM 150,000,000, is now
down to 50 percent of capacity, with be-
tween 12,000 and 15,000 persons at their
work benches.

Shurtages vl cual aud hides, coupled witb
s drop of some 60 percent in the productivity
of the individual workman, have cut deeply
into the quantity but not the quality of the
Offenbach leather. The chief products which
this industry can export, all of them on
display at the Wiesbaden Export Exposition,
are briefcases, billfolds, jewelry cases, wrist
watch straps, bags of all kinds including
women’s handbags, marketing bags, fitted
suitcases, leather trunks.

ATTITUDE OF WORKERS

Questioned as to the high degree of ab-
senteeism in the larger leather plants, an
official of the Union of Leather Goods Man-
ufacturers of Offenbach, said: “When a
man stands in line six hours to draw his
potato ration, you can’t expect him to put
in a full day’s work at his bench.”

Being a luxury product, leather goods must
conform to rapidly changing styles. Manu-
facturers wryly display women’s pocket-
books which look perfectly presentable but

Leather articles manufactured in Wuerttemberg-Baden on display at the Stuttgart export ex

ae

oS

Photo by Byers

--- Page 9 ---
which are not saleable because they are “out
of date.” This, at least, is what visiting
American business men have told the Offen-
bach leather trade. The lag in styles was
ascribed to the lack of fashion magazines in
Germany, a situation which MG is now seek-
ing to correct.

As soon as these bottlenecks, in coal, raw
materials, sustenance for the workers, and
styles, are cleared, Offenbach will have much
to contribute to the export trade of the
US Zone.

A visit to the Leitz Company in Weizlar,
where the Leica cameras are made, substan-
tiated the hopes put in the Zone’s export
program. Here is an industry with enor-
mous dollar potential — the current output
of more than 1,200 cameras, 1,200 prismatic
binoculars, and 450 microscopes and tele-
scopes every month could be quadrupled if
the raw materials were available — and with
an excellent foreign market. The German
authorities who run the firm noted a vital
weakness in the German economy when they

declared that Leitz personnel, like other
workers in Germany, have no incentive.

“What can a man do with the Reichs-
marks he earns at the end of a month’s
work?” they asked. “The tradesman has
nothing to sell him. There are no consumer
goods in the shops.”

When OMGUS recently released 41.5 tons
of silver as a revolving credit to the precious
metals industries of Hanau, Pforzheim, and
Schwaebisch Gmuend, a craft more than four
centuries old took a new view of its future.
A silver expert of Wuerttemberg-Baden’s
Economic Ministry remarked, “All we want
now are the customers.” The markets exist,
he explained, but the customers have not

(Left) A craftsman at a wood-carving shop in Ober-
ammergau puts the finishing touches on a wooden panel ;
wood carving is one of Bavaria’s oldest and most highly
developed crafts. (Below) A worker at the Robert Bosch
plant in Stuttgart checks a finished automobile battery. The
Bosch factory produces a large part of the automobile
accessories turned out in the US Zone. Photos by Byers

--- Page 10 ---
arrived. One order for RM 100,000 worth
of silver chains has been received from a
New York firm but this was considered only
a “drop in the bucket”.

Like many other export industries, the
precious metals enterprises are desperately
short of materials. They have the added
handicap of being a “luxury trade” and
many of the dollar-poor nations of the world
do not want to use up their dollar balances
for products which are not strictly essential.
Also the world silver shortage has driven
up the price of this product from 71 cents
per ounce in October to 92 cents today.

Germany’s three centers of precious met-
als, Schwaebisch Gmuend with its tableware
and service sets, Pforzheim with its costume
jewelry, and Hanau with its exquisite art-
craft, had a prewar export trade aggrega-
ting RM 55,000,000. Today the three towns
have enough silver on hand to operate for
four months. Since the export potential of
silver is at a ratio of ten to one, that is, the
return is ten dollars on every dollar invest-
ed, the industry is expected to contribute
substantially to the over-all export program.

TEXTILE INDUSTRY

The textile industry, centered at Augs-
burg, is working at slightly more than 50
percent of capacity because of shortages of
raw materials and fuel. The technical man-
ager of the Kattun Finishing Fabrik said his
plant could double its output if sufficient
coal supplies were provided. The Kattun
personnel are working on a one-shift, 45-
hour week basis. Enough skilled workmen
are available to go on a three-shift basis. On
7 January the plant had only a 14-day
stockpile of coal. The normal backlog is
a ten-week supply. In normal times the an-
nual export of the Kattun factory exceeded
RM 4,000,000. Ninety percent of Kattun
was destroyed in the air attacks but much
of the floor space has been restored and
further reconstruction is under way.

The raw cotton now being processed in
Augsburg comes out of US Cotton Commod-
ities Corporation shipments from the Uni-
ted States. Lack of wood pulp and other

materials have obstructed recovery of the
artificial silk industry. Illustrating the de-
mand for Augsburg products was a letter
received recently from a Swedish company.
ordering 49,000 dollars worth of finished
textiles.

Here are some of the problems of the tex-
tile export industry: .

1. Direct contact between buyer and seller
is essential to the successful consummation
of any deal. (This is now possible under
latest OMGUS directives.)

2. Material-starved manufacturers need a
share of the proceeds in raw materials. (This —
will be possible under the revolving credit
established by the RFC commodities advance
program.)

3. Industries supporting the textile indus-
try, such as sulphur and wood pulp plants,
must receive aid as well as the factory pro-
ducing the final product. (This is contem-
plated under current production programs.)

4. Material is needed for reconstruction of
actual plant property which was destroyed
in air attacks. (Building materials will be
provided for essential industries.)

5. By ‘“cannibalizing” salvagable parts of
otherwise outworn machinery, the Germans
have been able to keep their establishments
going, but replacement machinery and ma-
chine tools are essential if the export pro-
gram is to succeed.

6. The textile trade feels that production
can only be maximized if it is relatively
“free” to set its own export prices. The
1936 stop prices, now in force, put a ceiling
on increases.

7, The textile trade has reserve stocks of
two and a half million meters of goods com-
pared to the prewar reserve of 6 to 7 mil-
lion meters. (The backlog will be built up
under the CCC commodities advance pro-
gram.)

8. Augsburg has its own power sources
but these are dependent upon coal, supplies
of which are dangerously low. (The maximiz-
ing of coal production has highest priority.)

The principal shortages in Nuremberg’s
famous toy industry, which is currently
operating at ten percent of its prewar po-

(Continued on page 29)

--- Page 11 ---
BARTER ORGANIZATIONS

[> present-day Germany, the need for con-
sumer goods is greater than ever before.
Thousands of families establishing new
homes lack the most fundamental pieces of
furniture or kitchen utensils. Housewives
find that most of their children’s shoes, coats,
and underwear bought during the war are
worn beyond repair. Only one solution —
bartering — has seemed feasible in this land

where shortages are expected to continue for
many more months.

To help put bartering on a legal basis, US
officials have set up two types of organi-
zations, the Barter Center and the Ring Ex-
change. At Barter Centers, all types of
articles — from shoes to coffee cups — are
traded. The management does not buy the
items offered; instead, it appraises, affixes

A German brings some of his sports equipment to the Barter Department of the Stutt-

gart Tauschring; in return for these items he will receive other articles of similar value.

SS-STUTIGART

be

ince

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 12 ---
the proper prices, and displays them on the
shelves with a notice of the article desired
in exchange. The transaction is completed
only if and when another person is found
who offers the desired commodity and wants
the displayed merchandise for himself. In
another form of the Barter Center, the estab-
lishment buys the articles offered, and the
seller is then able to buy any of the items
exhibited up to the value of that which he
has sold.

LIMITATIONS CITED

In these kinds of bartering, however, there
are certain drawbacks. In the first type.
poor-quality products usually are admitted
to the shelves, since the management does
not incur risk. And in the second, an estab-
lishment handling a variety of articles from
underwear to pianos is hardly able to employ
expert appraisers for all types of mer-
chandise,

On the other hand, a more elaborate form
of barter organization, the Ring Exchange,

(Tauschring), has proved highly successful
in many parts of Germany since it first was
formed in Stutigart. This type of barter
plan combines various wellknown merchan-
dising firms such as those selling men’s cloth-

ing, underwear, shoes, household-goods,
toys, photographic articles, and electric
equipment into one organization. Each of
the firms handles only the type of article
with which it usually deals. The Ring is
used in this manner: A person who wants a
pair of shoes in exchange for an electric
heater first goes to the electrical appliance
section. This department appaises the heater
using prewar prices as a basis and making
corresponding deductions for depreciation.
The appraised value is entered on a barter
certificate which is given io the barterer to-
gether with cash. With this barter cer-
tificate, the barterer goes to the shoe barter
department and makes his shoe purchase.
This kind of trading, of course, requires
the departments to invest capital and to incur
a certain amount of risk. No such barter
department, therefore, will accept third-rate

(Continued on page 30)

--- Page 13 ---
his must be a demonstration of democracy

and free press in action,” observed a
German newspaper reporter after his first
Military Governor press conference.

In praising the new MG policy of allow-
ing German newsmen to gather information
from OMGUS sources, he and his colleagues
agreed that this freedom for the German
press will do much to increase faith in demo-
cratic methods and strengthen German sup-
port for MG objectives.

Allowing the German press greater access
to news sources is an important development
in the over-all plan of encouraging free, in-
dependent information for Germany. A
USFET letier of 14 November 1946 an-
nounced that bona fide German correspon-
dents of DENA and correspondents, editors,
and radio representatives of news media
licensed by the Office of Information
Control, OMGUS, upon presentation of
proper identification, would be accorded

German newspaper reporters at the recent press conference held by General McNarney
in Berlin. At the end of the conference the Germans were invited to ask questions.

10

entry to press centers for the purpose of
collecting news and press releases and would
be given impartial treatment. In areas where
no press centers were located, subordinate
commanders would make every effort to
provide correct and adequate information to
DENA and US-licensed German news media
representatives.

Special press conferences for Germans
were encouraged, but not until the new
year were they officially allowed to
attend jointly with representatives of the
American and Allied press. The Dep-
uty Military Governor had met the German
press as well as American and Allied cor-
respondents during his visits to the monthly
Laenderrat meetings in Stuttgart. MG offi-
cials in the Berlin Sector inaugurated press
conferences for German writers in the fall of
1946. Finally in January1947 the German press
was admitted to the Deputy Military Gover-
nor’s regular conferences in Berlin. At the

Photo by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 14 ---
ii

General McNarney at his last Berlin press conference as Military Governor. At his lett is William
Haggard, Director of OMGUS PRO; at his tight is Col. G. S. Eyster, USFET Public Relations Officer

Photo by PRO, OMGUS

second of these conferences, held in February,
19 German newsmeniasked their first questions.

General Clay, at the beginning of the meet-
ing, informed them that US correspondents
would first ask their questions; then the Ger-
mans would be free to ask their own through
an interpreter. The questions posed by the
reporters were freely asked and freely an-
swered. They ranged from queries about
food and coal transport to the progress of
denazification.

MCNARNEY’S PRESS CONFERENCE

Later in the same week, German newsmen
were present at General McNarney’s last
press conference in Berlin. This time, even
more questions were asked by German rep-
resentatives. They wanted to know if any
preparations had been made towards the cre-
ation of a German central government and
German central administrations; if General
McNarney in his 15-month stay in Germany

11

had gained the impression that there are
enough political, moral, and spiritual forces
in Germany to bring about a regeneration of
the country; and other queries concerning
decartelization and the German peace treaty.

Discussing the conferences later with MG
officials, the German reporters expressed
amazement at the calm, informal atmosphere
of the meeting, and the policy of answering
controversial questions on the spot without
notes. One of them recalled that even in pre-
Nazi days, press conferences in Germany
were not so direct and informal. At that
time, questions usually were submitted in
writing in advance and if the queries were
not answered, the correspondent never dared
to ask why.

Through queries to individual OMGUS
officials, still another way to obtain MG in-
formation has been opened to German editors.
If a reporter wishes to learn details of some
economic phase of the occupation, for

--- Page 15 ---
‘

example, he may contact an economics branch
chief or the head of the division to obtain an
answer, a privilege the German reporter
shares equally with the Allied correspondent.
Through such a policy, MG officials hope to
increase the prestige of the press and bring
the truth about activities in the US Zone to
the German people as soon and as clearly
as possible,

Official press cards are provided for re-
cognized representatives of DENA and US-
licensed news media. Notification and ar-
rangements are provided by OMGUS offices
directly concerned with preparations for the
press conferences. Principally to insure
equitable use of the limited space, represen-
tation has been restricted to one correspon-
dent from each news agency, each news-
paper, and each radio station. Besides those
covered in USFET letter of 14 November
1946, bona fide representatives of the Ger-
man news media of the British, Soviet, and
French Sectors of Berlin are admitted under
the same provisions.

The Military Governor’s conferences are
held every three to four weeks; in the Berlin
Sector, Colonel Howley’s press meetings
occur approximately every three weeks.

Licenses Granted to US

Five US and Foreign news agencies and
four American publishers of newspapers and
magazines have received licenses from OM-
GUS to operate in the US Zone of Germany,
according to the Office of Information Con-
trol, OMGUS. These licenses were formulat-
ed by the Finance Division, OMGUS, to
which all future applicants must apply for
similar rights to contact informational opera-
tions in the US Zone.

The following American information
enterprises, which had been operating under
US Treasury Department licenses, now
have direct authority from OMGUS: The
Associated Press; United Press Association;
Hearst Corporation (International News Ser-
vice); Overseas News Agency; The New
York Times (Overseas Weekly Edition);
New York Herald Tribune, Inc. (European

12

Sometimes, however, special conferences are
called on short notice. On one occasion, when
an inaccuracy appeared in a Saturday morn-
ing newspaper, a special press conference
was called for that very afternoon to clarify
the inaccurate report.

There also is a possibility that several
German newsmen will have the opportunity
of taking a trip in the opposite direction —
to the United States. Several US newspapers
and large radio networks have expressed in-
terest in bringing to the United States as
their guests German editors, reporters, and
radio technicians. By visiting modern US
studios and editorial rooms, studying US
newspaper and radio production from start
to finish, the Germans would gain invaluable
experience for promoting democratic, modern
information services in their own country.
ODIC, very favorable to the idea, will leave
it to the US newspapers and radio networks
to select the German professionals for whom
they will arrange itineraries. As part of the
plan to give Germany’s information services
a window on the democratic world, ODIC
officials believe the US visit could be very
valuable in shaping Germany’s future press
and radio program.

, Foreign News Media

Edition, Paris); Time Incorporated (Time
Overseas Edition); Life (International Edi-
tion) Weekly Publications, Inc., (News-
week, Continental Edition).

Reuters English News Service, to which
the Treasury Department regulations did not
apply, also has direct authority from OM-
GUS for similar operations.

Licenses issued to these enterprises pro-
vide that they shall be sold for German
marks which must be deposited in blocked
accounts to be used only for expenses within
Germany.

News and publications disseminated by
these companies will not be censored by Mil-
itary Government, it was pointed out. Dis-
tribution, to be accomplished through Ger-
man channels, is the responsibility of the
licensed. information media.

--- Page 16 ---
Occupation Problems Appraised

Military Governor Sees 10-15 Year Military Occupation, Views
Position of Allied Control Council at Berlin Press Conference

Gen. Joseph T. McNarney held on 21 Feb-
ruary his last press conference in Berlin as
US Military Governor of Germany. Excerpts
from his comments and answers to questions
by correspondents included the following.

After having been here about fifteen months
my estimate is that between ten and fifteen
years of some sort of military occupa-
tion (is necessary in Germany). That does not
necessarily mean all of Germany will be oc-
cupied by military forces but certainly we
should control certain of the vital territories
for at least that period.

Personally I would prefer that the mil-
itary occupation would remain about as it is
in that we have the military personnel avail-
able to visit all of Germany in the nature of
the constabulary controls. Now there are many
individual communities in Germany where
there is no garrison of American troops
whatsoever but they are visited frequently
by the constabulary control...

Some sort of military occupation should
be continued for an extended period of years
in those portions of Germany where the
basic elements which would permit a revival
of the war-making power are present. You
might say that is, in effect, the Ruhr. Now,
I also believe that it would be well to have
all of Germany see from time to time oc-
cupational forces until we have become con-
vinced that whatever German government is
set up under the treaty is able to prevent the
reappearance or the revival of any such
thing as National Socialism. Now my
estimate is that within ten or fifteen years
we will be able to make that decision . . .

Naturally, the occupation forces cost
money but in the last essence I would hate
to see it used as a money-saving method
because my own opinion is that, until the
world settles down into a status where
security of the world is more or less as-

13

sured, the US forces should not be reduced
below the present strength unless universal
military training is put into effect ...
Under the United Nations Charter, the
United States is required to maintain in
being a certain number of forces on call.
As a matter of fact that is what I am going
back to try to organize... The military
advisors to the Government, I believe, stated
that under no circumstances should the
Regular Army, even with universal. military
training, be reduced under a figure of about
800,000 and I heartly agree with that...

My position is that we ought to take out
insurance. I carry fire insurance on my
house and furniture, and think the US
Government should carry insurance also. . .

Any peace treaty which is imposed upon
the Germans . . . should be ratified in some
manner by the German people. Under (the
US) system of government, peace treaties are
ratified by two-thirds vote of the Senate.
The Senate is elected by the vote of the
people. Following our own precepts I would
say some sort of German government should
be in existence and they should be required
to ratify the treaty, and I would be perfectly
willing to have it submitted to a referendum
of the people. My only point on the whole
thing is it should be accepted by the German
people...

The effect (if the plebiscite decided to
reject the treaty) would probably be a con-
tinuation of government by the occupational
forces. :

(Question: After fifteen months in the
Allied Control Council, do you think that
is the efficient organization for governing
Germany? Do you think it is the organiza-
tion that is capable of running Germany
under its present policies? )

Not as we now operate, no. Because under
the Berlin Protocol we were supposed to set

(Continued on page 32)

--- Page 17 ---
Exe

G= stock exchanges once again are
being used by press and public to gauge
the economic health of the country. No MG
occupation laws were passed prohibiting
stock exchange operations in US Zone cii-
ies—but the general confusion after the war
made such transactions virtually impossible
for some time.

When the four exchanges of Hamburg, in
the British Zone, and Munich, Frankfurt,
and Stuttgart in the US Zone finally opened
their doors, stockholders no longer found
it necessary to exchange their securities for

An action scene at the Frankfurt stock exchange; transactions
in the three US Zone exchanges have been generally speculative.

GES

cash through outside channels. As legal
business was resumed, controls for the new-
ly-opened exchanges developed. In the Brit-
ish Zone the exchanges were placed under
rather strict MG control. On the other hand,
both the Frankfurt and Munich exchanges
were permitted considerable freedom of
operation and self-supervision, in line with
US policy. This policy permitted approved
organizations and institutions to operate
with litile interference, though under close
surveillance, providing all MG laws and
regulations and all non-discriminatory Ger-

Stars and Stripes Photo

--- Page 18 ---
man laws were observed.

With such differences in control, the ex-
changes naturally have developed their own
methods in operating procedures as well as
in technical policy decisions. Disparities in
policy are apparent, for example, in the
recognition of “Giro” certificates (negotiable
receipts for stored securities). Huge amounts
of securities had been collected in “Sammel”
deposits (storage depots) located in several
cities throughout Germany (the largest lo-
cated in Berlin) where they were stored for
“safekeeping” by a decree of June 1942.
Rightful owners hold only simple receipts
for their interest, since almost all issues
are bearer shares, and each receipt is consid-
ered evidence of interest in the “pool.”
Neither the bank which collected the secur-
ity nor the individual owner has knowledge
as to what proportion of securities are held
in the “pool” in his area; nor, in fact, as
to the identity of ownership of the securities
which were removed by the Soviet Military

15

Government when they emptied the vaults
of the Berlin “Sammel” depots. In Berlin
all old banks were closed during the Soviet
occupation of the city. The quadripartite
Berlin Kommandatura has as yet been un-
able to agree to permit these banks to re-
sume activities. The reopening of the Berlin
Exhange therefore seems hardly likely at
this time.

EXPERIENCE WITH CERTIFICATES

Because of the uncertainty of the loca-
tion of such “Giro” certificates, and lack of
information as to the contents of the storage
vaults, the exchange in Hamburg was pro-
hibited from dealing in these “Giro” receipts.
The same practice was adopted by the Mu-
nich and Stuttgart exchanges. The Frank-
furt exchange, however, experienced such
a demand for a time that it accepted and
dealt in these receipts at a discount of 25
to 30 percent until early in 1946, when such
transactions were discontinued. About the

--- Page 19 ---
same time, steps were taken by the govern-
ing bodies of the exchanges to ascertain that
stocks traded were not those which had been
looted or illegally removed from depots and
placed on the market, thereby creating dual
claims to the security.

All three exchanges in the American Zone
established certain operating limits, among
them one prohibiting trade in Reich secur-
ities. The same limitation had been impos-
ed by the British Control Commission for
Germany on the Hamburg exchange.

Throughout this period, ceiling prices
were based on those in effect on the last day
of operation of the individual exchange be-
fore capitulation. For a time, the Frankfurt
exchange in some instances exceeded the
ceiling prices by 10 percent of the share
value, on the grounds that a controlled in-
crease would represent the actual character
of the market, .whereas continuance of ar-
tificial measures (ceiling prices) would fa-
vor people with more cash reserves at the
expense of those with less. After MG dis-
approval, the Frankfurt exchange dispensed
with the excessive ceiling prices, thus cur-
tailing any existing arbitrage between the
exchanges (which now numbered six through-
out Germany) and creating a certain har-
mony among them.

HIGHLY SPECULATIVE TENDENCY

In spite of this unity, transactions on all
the exchanges indicate a highly speculative
tendency which to a certain extent can be
attributed to a lack of faith in currency, ru-
mors of debt revalorization, and the hope
that Military Government will find it nec-
essary to permit a greater regrowth of in-
dustry than was at first anticipated. Such
feeling was evidenced by wild speculation
in I. G. Farbenindustrie, whose securities
soared in both price and volume of turnover
until they far surpassed that of any other
single security. When, finally, it reached more
than half of the entire turnover on some
exchanges for certain periods, US MG au-
thorities decided to curb this speculation.Law
55, promulgated on 29 January 1946, pro-
hibited any further transactions in Farben

lo

securities.

In any analysis of stock exchanges today,
it should be remembered that the exchanges
have undergone great changes since prewar
years. With the advent of the national so-
cialist government in Germany, stock ex-
changes were transformed in ways which
ultimately were to alter fundamentally their
relationship to the general economy. The
first task consisted of reducing the number
of German exchanges from 21 to nine, and
transferring the supervisory power over the
exchanges from the German states to the
Reichsfinanzminister. As the Nazi economy
became more totalitarian, suspicion of stock
markets became greater because of their as-
sociation with “finance capitalism,” and
even security trading in general was frown-
ed upon because it created competition. for
Reich security issues and because rising pri-
ces in equity issues indicated a growing lack
of confidence in the future of the currency.

INCREASING STATE INFLUENCE

Reich influence on stock exchanges during
succeeding stages of the war became increas-
ingly greater, beginning early with consi-
derable pressure to reduce activities on the
exchange and to direct the flow of invest-
ments to government securities. This was
brought about at first by allocating labor
and raw materials in accordance with a
government-approved program of production
which left little margin for private building
and set narrow limits to replacements and
repairs. Later it was continued by claims
on the Reichsbank, credit banks, savings
banks, insurance companies, and other finan-
cial institutions as required by the financial
needs of the state. To further eliminate
possible loopholes, more positive measures
of financial controls were used. All private
issues required official approval which pre-
vented an appeal to the capital market for
funds, unless the investment was deemed to
have public interest. However, as long as
the investor was free to purchase securities
issued before the war, and there was no
assurance that the public would take up
issues of the Reich, private loans could have

--- Page 20 ---
risen considerably. This would have compel-
led the government to improve the terms of
its own loans (at the taxpayers’ expense) or
permit its issues to be quoted below prices
of private bonds and effect a further decline
in its prestige. Although the government
was dealing with an inflation-minded public,
it realized that, apart from the fact that high
share quotations might create an impression
that profiteering had not been suppressed,
a stock exchange boom would also tend to
revive the unpleasantness of the 1919—1923
inflation. Nevertheless, a moderate boom was
allowed to develop, but when prices con-
tinued to rise speculators were warned that
drastic action would be taken unless the ex-
changes adopted measures of self control.
These appeals had little effect, and con-
sequently legislation was passed which suc-
ceeded in keeping prices under strict control
but which at the same time had the effect
of paralysing the market.

PROHIBITIVE TAX APPLIED

The first measure not only prevented com-
panies from increasing their dividend pay-
ments, but subjected dividends exceeding
six percent (in some cases eight percent) to
an almost prohibitive tax, even though the
companies concerned had regularly paid
such dividends in peace time. On the other
hand, companies were encouraged to avoid
the dividend tax by giving their shareholders
stock dividends.

By this system, a company with a nominal
share capital of RM 1 million, for example,
which had been paying a 10 percent dividend,
could maintain its annual distribution of
RM 100,000 without incurring additional
tax liabilities by offering a gratis share of
RM 1,000 to each holder of RM 1,000 in
old shares, and subsequently pay a nom-
inal dividend of five percent on the new
share capital of RM 2 million. Consequent-
ly, shares standing at 250 percent of their
old nominal value would be reduced to 125
percent of their new nominal value. This
was intended to induce shareholders to sell
part of their holdings, thereby increasing
the supply on the market. Almost all com-

N

panies with dividends exceeding six percent
were forced to follow suit by using this
method of reducing dividend payments. The
hope that an equilibrium between supply
and demand would thus be restored failed
to materialize. On the contrary, the tenden-
cy of investors to seek other than govern-
ment securities grew rapidly and with it a
natural reluctance to part with their hold-
ings.

With the increasing demand and practi-
cally no supply, even fixed-interest-bearing
securities (other than Reich) rose far above
parity. After several earlier threats and
unenforced regulations, the government in
June 1942 decreed that every individual
or firm whose total purchases of shares since
the outbreak of war exceeded 100,000 RM
would have to surrender the excess to the
Reichsbank, on demand, at a price quoted
sometime before the enactment of the decree.
The purchase price would not be paid in
cash but instead by blocked Reich loans.
This of course resulted in many holders be-
ing forced to sell at a loss. Even the supply
of securities, which was thus artificially
created and used to supply the demand of
new purchases, proved inadequate to regu-
larize the market for any time. Thus, in
February 1943, the free limit was reduced
to RM 50,000 and a ceiling price for shares
and almost equally rigid regulations for
bonds were introduced. Simultaneously
stock exchanges were permitted to open only
on certain days and for certain specified
hours. This, together with other discrimi-
natory laws, brought operations on the
market almost to a standstill, at which level
it remained until the Allied armies overran
the German cities.

The earliest quotations on the stock ex-
changes after Allied occupation varied great-
ly, and could be ascribed to cautious at-
tempts on the part of the public to gauge
the market. Securities for the most part were
quoted at prices considerably lower than
prior to the capitulation, and in some cases
the supervisory authorities found it neces-
sary to take steps to avoid severe drops be-
cause of the limited trade. However, the

--- Page 21 ---
over-all activities of the exchanges even on
the day of reopening indicated confidence,
and most prices rose rapidly.

Although during the first few months
quotations fluctuated, the volume rose quite
steadily. The low level of economic activ-
ity, as well as announcements made of plants
marked for reparations, was, in a large
measure, responsible for the price fluctua-
tions; on the other hand, the desire for any
investment, in preference to retaining consid-
erable currency, was responsible for the
rise in volume of stocks traded. Demand
for shares of firms manufacturing construc-
tion materials, food, shoes, clothing, and
medical supplies has been strong. Most of
the consumer goods securities reached their
ceiling price soon after the exchanges open-
ed. As a result there has been little turn-
over as few holders wish to part with this
type of security. Although such stocks
are very strongly favored in the market,
in recent months fixed-interest-bearing se-
curities also have been favored by investors.
It seems evident, therefore, that the purely
speculative tendecy indicated earlier has
given way somewhat to a more steadying
influence. This rally in bonds has been ob-
served not unfavorably by German finance
officials.

SOVIET ZONE SECURITIES

During the early period, securities of
firms located in the Soviet Zone received
little favor. However, quotations in recent
months have risen, due to the relatively few
offers; this might indicate that the Soviets
are not dismantling industry as rapidly as
the Germans feared. Certainly lack of turn-
over coupled with the recent price increase
suggest a considerable confidence in the
activity of industry in the eastern zone.

The sharp decline in turnover during Feb-
ruary was due to the ban on I. G, Farben
securities late in January, and the effects
have continued to be felt. The Frankfurt
stock exchange showed a greater decline
between Jaunary and April 1946 than the
other exchanges because of the discontinu-
ance of dealings in Giro receipts, and also

because of the reinstatement of the accepted
stop price. The restoration of stop prices
also resulted in the return of a considerable
amount of business to the other exchanges,
as they all now offer the same advantages.
At recent meetings which were held by
the executives of the exchanges both in the
United States and the British Zones, it was
detided to adopt a uniform method of trans-
ferring the interest coupons on the fixed-
interest-bearing securities. To date, there
have been several methods of handling these
coupons. Some exchanges have detached
the coupon, others have added the unpaid
interest stipulated to the cost of the sec-
urity. The latter method was deemed un-
desirable, since many bonds had reached
their ceiling price. This was especially true
in mortgage bonds and it was felt that ad-
ding interest rate was simply a method of
circumventing ceiling prices. As a result
of these meetings, a uniform plan has been
developed and submitted to both the Laen-
derrat in the US Zone and the German Joint
Committee for Finance for consideration.

UNIFIED CEILING PRICES

Certain other differences have been resolv-
ed at these meetings, and probably one of
the most important is the unification of ceil-
ing prices throughout the British and US
Zones, As has been pointed out earlier,
ceiling prices on the exchanges for the most
part were those prices in effect on the date
of their closing. It is now to be hoped as
a result of these recent agreements that uni-
form stop rates will shortly be in effect
throughout Germany.

A study is being made of necessary print-
ing facilities and sources of material to print
new issues of certificates known to be damag-
ed or destroyed. Certain proposals are also
under consideration by Military Govern-
ment for the partial release of securities
which are located in “storage depots” in the
western zones. Final disposition of such
stored securities will probably be made on
a quadripartite basis, and it is not expected
that this problem will be solved before Ger-
many becomes one economic unit.

--- Page 22 ---
Bizonal Policy Explained

Statement by Deputy Military Governor Replies to Attack on
Anglo-American Effort to Fulfill Potsdam Agreement Pledge

The following statement was issued 28 Feb-
ruary by the US Deputy Military Governor
for Germany:

At the meeting of the Allied Control Coun-
cil on the 25th of February, the Soviet
representative read a statement charging
United States and British Military Govern-
ments with failure to abide by the Potsdam
Protocol and with the establishment of a
political and economic fusion of the United
States and British Zones. As the rules of
the Allied Control Council prevent publi-
cation of such a statement, I asked per-
mission from the Soviet representative to
make his statement public immediately. Since
he could not grant this permission, the Amer-
ican Delegation was unable to make the
statement public. Therefore, the American
Delegation was surprised to find the state-
ment being given wide publicity throughout
Germany through the medium of the Soviet
press and Soviet controlled radio, which
would certainly not seem to be within the
spirit of the rules adopted by the Allied
Control Council governing the publication
of articles under discussion. :

However, the American Delegation wel-
comes full publicity being given to any dis-
cussion in the Allied Control Council, even
when it involves a statement which is merely
a repetition of the many charges made
against. American and British Military

Governments in the Soviet press and radio.

over recent weeks.

The Soviet statement particularly charges
United States and British Military Govern-
ments with a political and economic fusion
contrary to the Potsdam Protocol, which
threatens the. partition of Germany. Ob-
viously, the Potsdam Protocol contemplated
an economic unification of Germany, and the
action of the United States and British Mili-
tary Governments in combining their zones
of occupation into an integrated economic

19

unit, is in accord with the spirit of Potsdam.
It is equally obvious that it was desirable to
give 40,000,000 Germans. a better oppor-
tunity to revive their economy to become
self-supporting. Prior to undertaking this
economic unification, however, both the Uni-
ted States and Great Britain invited Soviet
Military Government to join its area into
this economic integration under the same
terms and conditions. It is difficult to under-
stand even now why Soviet Military Govern-
ment did not accept this offer if it is so
desirous of obtaining an economic unity
which will permit the improvement of con-
ditions in Germany, particularly as the offer
of American and British Military Govern-
ments to amalgamate still stands.

The fears expressed by the Soviet Military
Government that the economic unification of
the American and British Zones is to become
a political unification, are not founded in
fact. Both the United States and British
Military Governments have deliberately re-
frained from even planning the political uni-
fication of the two zones, as such political
unification could be possible of misinter-
pretation. In fact, the American Military
Delegation has consistently introduced and
supported papers before the Allied Control
Council to provide for a political unification
which have failed through the opposition of
others. It is regretted that other delegations
have not been willing to carry out the Pots-
dam Agreement with reference to the estab-
lishment of economic unity under central
German administrations.

The Soviet Military Government speaks
feelingly with respect to the coal resources
and steel capacity of the Ruhr and their
value to Germany as a whole. It fails to
point out that the resources of eastern Ger-
many have in no way been made available
for Germany as a whole and in fact much
of the enrrent production in eastern Ger-

--- Page 23 ---
many is being taken out of Germany with-
out return.

The Soviet Military Government also
refers feelingly to “credits of servitude” in
connection with the funds being spent by
American and British Military Governments
to prevent starvation and disease. It does
not point out that the utilization of current
production being removed asreparations from
eastern Germany might well be used to pro-
vide funds with which to pay for essential
imports. It is well known that neither Amer-
ican nor British Military Government is
.Temoving any products from German produc-
tion except to secure funds to pay for
essential imports, and in addition thereto is
spending large sums of its own for food
and other agricultural products. It doubts
very much if these expenditures will be re-
garded by the German people or by the
people of the world as “credits of servitude.”
It is doubtful if any humanitarian effort has
ever been characterized by such a term.

It is also difficult to understand the con-
cern of the Soviet Military Government with
respect to the creation of foreign owned
monopolies and other foreign investment in
Germany. The investment of the United
States in Germany has not been increased
by oge penny during the occupation and, in
fact, United States Military Government has
presented to the Allied Control Authority a
proposal for a moratorium on all foreign

New Decartelization

A decartelization law prohibiting German
participation in international and domestic
cartel arrangements and outlawing combina-
tions in restraint of trade has been promul-
gated in the US Zone by Military Govern:
ment. This legislation is intended to serve
only as an interim measure pending a quadri-
partite law on decartelization.

The four-fold purpose of the new legis-
lation is stated as follows: to prevent Ger-
many from endangering the safety of her
neighbors and again constituting a threat to
international peace; to destroy Germany’s

20

investments for which it has been unable to
obtain approval. However, British Military
Government has accepted this proposal.
This particular observation of the Soviet
Military Government is extremely interesting
in view of the information which has come
to us that it has taken over the ownership
of one-third of the industry now remaining
in the Soviet Zone to include the largest and
most efficient plants. The only foreign
monopoly in Germany known to American
Military Government consists of the Soviet
AG's.

United States Military Government agrees
whole-heartedly with the statement of the
Soviet Military Government that the German
people should be permitted to determine their
government “freely and without compulsion.”
It believes that its record in this connec-
tion requires no explanation.

The United States wants a unified and peace-
ful Germany which will be able to develop
a democratic government and a self support-
ing economy. This has been its consistent
position in the Allied Control Council. This
position is well known to Soviet Military
Government. The economic merger of the
United States and British Zones can be made
an economic merger of all four zones
of Germany by the acceptance of the invita-
tion which has been extended to all zones
of Germany. It would seem that this was
a very simple way to peace.

Law Promulgated

economic potential to wage war; to insur8
that measures taken for Germany’s recon-
struction are consistent with peaceful and
democratic purposes; to lay the groundwork
for building a healthy and democratic Ger-
man economy.

The announcement emphasized that exempt-
ions under the Decartelization Law may be
granted to specified industrial and other
economic establishments which are “required
to further the declared objectives of Military
Government,” as well as to enterprises which
are taken under control by MG.

--- Page 24 ---
GENERAL

The postmaster at Berlin-Dahlem sells copies of the first permanent postage stamps adopted for use in postwar Germany. Photo by PRO OMGUS

Twelve denominations of new permanent postage stamps
for Germany went on sale 1 March at all German post offices
in the British, Soviet, and US Zones, and in Berlin. Stamps in

NEW POSTAGE STAMPS the initial sale were the 2, 6, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 25, 40, 60,
and 80 Pfennig denominations.

Twelve Denominations Go on Sale The new stamps are printed in the designs chosen by a
quadripartite committee from specimens submitted by German
artists from all four zones of Germany. The Stamps Com-
mittee considered 6,175 designs, and final approval of five
winning designs was reached last September.

In Berlin and Three Zone Area

21

--- Page 25 ---
Civilian Travel Permits

New types of Military Entry and Exit

Permits designed to expedite travel by
foreign and German civilians moving into
and out of the western zones of Germany
have been set up by the Combined Travel
Hoard,

The Eniry Permit is in the form of a
rubber stamp impression imprinted directly
on the holder’s national passport. Generally,
a fee of two dollars in the equivalent of the
currency of the country in which travel orig-
inates is charged for entry into the western
zones of Germany, and a similar one dollar
equivalent is charged for transit through
the area,

Exit procedure provides that Germans will
now be issued a travel document in lieu of
a passport, and the Military Exit Permit will
be in the form of a rubber stamp impression
on his passport.

A fee of 30 Reichsmarks is charged for
the travel document and two Reichsmarks
for the Exit Permit. Application for these
travel documents will be made directly to
the lccal Landrat or Buergermeister. The
travel document is not an identity paper, and
will be issued only in cases of approved
travel abroad.

“Think-and-Win” Program

An OMGUS Central ““THINK-and-WIN”
Board of Judges has recently been appointed
by the Commanding General, OMGUS, as
part of a new plan to increase the interest
and contributions of OMGUS personnel and
MG personnel in the Laender with regard
to the Theater-wide “THINK-and-WIN”
program. This central board consists of
seven military and WD civilian members, in-
cluding three from OMGUS Hq., one from
OMG Buerlin Sector, and three from Berlin
Commanl. The nilitary members are field
officers and the civilians are individuals with
comparable responsibilities. In addition, a
full time executive secretary from the Office
of the Personnel Officer will work with the
board in a non-voting capacity.

OMGUS Directive AG 353.8 (PO), which

22

provides for the establishment of the Centra!
Board of Judges, also directs that the Direct-
or of OMG -in each Land--will-appoint: a
Land “THINK-and-WIN” Board of Judges,
which will handle suggestions submitted by
MG personnel in the Laender and forward
them to the Central Board.

As set forth in the directive, the functions
of the Central Board of Judges are as
follows:

To act in an advisory capacity to the Per-
sonnel Officer on all matters related to the
“THINK-and-WIN” project.

To formulate and recommend policies,
plans, and procedures for the continuous
functioning of the program and to otherwise
implement approved policies.

To carry on, through its full-time staff,
a publicity program to stimulate the interest
of personnel at all levels in participation in
the program and utilization of suggestions.

To develop a dynamic plan for utilization
of suggestions deemed to have merit.

To investigate and evaluate all suggestions
submitted by eligible persons in the US
Sector of Berlin and to forward them to the
Theater “THINK-and-WIN” Board of
Judges with recommendations for appro-
priate awards in worthy cases.

To review all suggestions submitted by
Land Boards and to forward them to the
Theater Board with appropriate recommen-
dations.

The functions of the Land Boards of
Judges are similar; they will consider sug-
gestions submitted in their respective Laen-
der and forward them with evaluation to
the Central Board.

Certain types of suggestions are noted as
being ineligible. These include: suggestions
pertaining to projects assigned to the sug-
gestor in the course of his official duties;
other suggestions which an employee might
be expected to offer in line of duty and/or
which could be executed without higher
supervisory approval; and trivial or frivo-
lous suggestions.

A suggestion is not eligible for award
until it has been placed into operation, or

--- Page 26 ---
until the appropriate operating official has
completed plans for its implementation and
has set specific dates.

The “THINK-and-WIN” program has re-
ceived a total of 814 suggestions from MG
personnel since its inception last year.. Cash
prizes have been awarded to 48 entrants, as
of 1. February.

Personnel Changes

M. S. Szymezak, Chief of the Trade and
Commerce Branch, has been appointed Di-
rector of the Economics Division, to succeed
Maj. Gen. William H. Draper, Jr., recently
named Economic Advisor to the Theater Com-
mander. Mr. Szymcezak, who arrived in Ber-
lin in August, is on loan from the Federal
Reserve Board.

Robert Trier, deputy to Mr. Szymezak, has
been designated Chief of the Trade and Com-
merce Branch.

William P. Abbey, of the Legal Division,
has resumed his duties as Denazification
Legal Officer of the Office of Personal Ad-
visor to the Deputy Military Governor on
Denazification. During his recent leave in
the United States, the position was filled by
Richard D. Kearney.

Youth Orientation Problems

More than 650,000, or 28 percent, of the
German youth in the US Zone between the
ages of ten and 18 years are now active
members of organized German youth groups.
Of this number about 41 percent are mem-
bers of religious groups, 37 percent members
of sports groups, and the balance members of
cultural, craft, and trade union organizations.

“The majority of social scientists will con-
cede that, after twelve years of Nazi indoc-
trination, it is impossible to reorient the Ger-
man youth to an appreciation of the demo-
cratic way of life in any period shorter than
that,” remarked Dr. Norman Himes, Chief of
the Office of Special Education, [A&C Di-
vision, OMGUS. “It will probably take longer
because a system of social relationships

23

based upon the technique of compromise and
upon respect for minority viewpoints, in other
words upon the integrity of the individual, is
a more highly developed social system than
one based on authoritarianism and the sup-
pression of the individual.

“Therefore we have an infinitely greater
disadvantage than the Nazis ever had, be-
cause we are trying to help the German
people build something much more difficult
to achieve . . . But seeds are definitely being
planted in the US Zone for a way of life that
not only the people of the United States, but
the people in all peaceloving nations of the
world, will approve.”

Bizonal Coordination

In an effort to improve coordination be-
tween the Land governments of the US and
British Zones and the five established agen-
cies of the bizonal economic fusion, the eight
Ministers-President of the two occupation
areas have authorized the appointment of a
committee to make recommendations to MG
designed to achieve this end. The action was
taken at a meeting 17 February in Wiesbaden.

The Ministers-President, chosen by popu-
larly elected Land legislatures, are not satis-
fied with the present situation, under which
they appoint representatives to agencies set
up on a bizonal plane and then find them-
selves subject to orders from these same
agencies.

Concerning the same meeting, the Lander-
rat at Stuttgart, in a sharply worded state-
ment, labeled as “sensationally false infor-
mation” a German newspaper report to
the effect that German officials of the two
zones are prepared to establish a bizonal par-
liament.

The German newspaper report stated in
part that the British and US Zone officials
were “prepared” to establish a parliament in
case no agreement on establishment of a Ger-
man government is reached at the conference
of foreign ministers in Moscow this month.
The newspaper attributed the report to Ger-
man sources.

--- Page 27 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

Below-freezing temperatures continue to
hamper industry in the US Zone. As of
24 February, three-quarters of all electrical
equipment plants were closed down and
most textile mills remained shut. Produc-
tion of paper and pulp was almost elimina-
ted. Shortages of fuel and power sharply
curtailed production of glass, ceramics, and
chemicals. Decreases in tax collections
throughout the Zone also reflected the low
level of economic activity due to the coal
shortage.

CONTROL COUNCIL ACTION

The Control Council meeting on 20 Feb-
ruary signed the “Law on Repeal of Legis-
lation on Hereditary Farms and Enactment
of Other Provisions Regulating Agricultural
and Forest Lands.”

The US Bureau of Census has provided
OMGUS with an expert in sampling, a spe-
cial method used to determine statistics in
a short time by counting not the whole num-
ber of units but only a part selected on
special logical and mathematical lines. MG
wishes to apply this technique to the German
census of 29 October 1945 in order to ob-
tain certain important data.

Of the 33,734 persons found by Denazi-
fication officials with the Special Branches
to be not employable in the period June-
January, 12,752 were in military installa-
tions. Of the latter, all except five had been
removed.

PROCUREMENT OF SEED POTATOES

Arrangements have been made to procure
228,000 metric tons of seed potatoes from
the United States for the combined US-Brit-
ish Zones. These potatoes will be distribu-
ted to farmers for planting in exchange for
the delivery of equal amounts of eating po-
tatoes for off-the-farm consumption. Seed
potatoes will receive first priority on ship-
ping space, since shipments should arrive
before the middle of April to be available
for spring planting. However, it has been
ascertained that of the 228,000 tons arrang-

24

ed for, only some 150,000 tons can be trans-
ported by 15 April. Approximately 22,000
metric tons of foundation seed potatoes
(used for producing seed potatoes) from
Czechoslovakia under contract for delivery
to the British Zone will be diverted to Ba-
varia for expansion of seed production. This
area is the most suitable in the US and
British Zones for seed multiplication. Ba-
varia will in turn deliver trade (certified)
seed for production in the Ruhr of eating
potatoes.

Approximately 90 percent of the fuelwood
required for large US Zone cities this winter
has now been cut, and the requirements for
smaller communities have been entirely met.
Although ‘transportation difficulties have
interfered to some extent with deliveries of
fuelwood to city consumers, deliveries have
been speeded up during the past month by
diverting to fuelwood-hauling German trucks
ordinarily used for transporting other forest
products.

FOOD IMPORTS FROM US

Arrivals of food imports from the United
States for US and British occupied areas
of Germany totaled approximately 124,600
metric tons during the first two weeks of
February.

Importation of fish from Scandinavian
countries under contracts signed last spring
has now been completed. Approximately
49,550 metric tons of fish were received
from these countries between 1 June 1946
and 8 February 1947 for German civilians
in US occupied areas.

The average daily output of hard coal
rose to 253,000 metric tons in January, a
new postwar high. This was almost five
percent higher than in the preceding month
and 18 percent ahead of January 1945.
Although brown coal output in January
was down about six percent from the De-
cember figure, averaging 510,400 metric tons
a day, the output was more than three per-
cent higher than the average daily produc-
tion in January 1945.

--- Page 28 ---
Witnesses’ Accommodations at

Dachau Termed Unsatisfactory

The Muenchner Mittag (Munich) carries
an appeal by the Bavarian State Commissar
Phillip Auerbach to former concentration
camp inmates to go to Dachau to testify
against the concentration camp guards of
Dachau, Mouthausen, and Buchenwald, An
accompanying article by Josef Ackermann,
former concentration camp inmate, described
proceedings: The War Crimes Commission
presents one after the other of the SS-guards
on a stage. There is an auditorium with
about one hundred seats where the former
prisoners listen, contradict denials by the
SS-men, and enter on a blank charges they
are willing to support under oath.

The appeal by Auerbach promised every
witness who goes to Dachau accommodations,
food, and 10 marks per diem — all provided
by MG. Ackermann also emphasized the
importance of the witnesses, but said:

“The accommodations unfortunately do not
correspond to it. A big barracks is divided
into two halves. The witnesses for the de-
fense, whose number is small, are relatively
well off .. . The prosecution witnesses sleep
in a single big room crowded with field beds.
Anybody who didn’t get rheumatism in the
concentration camp surely will get it here
at night. The unfriendly day room without
curtains is completely unheated ... It is
an imposition that former concentration
camp inmates must permit themselves to be
interned as witnesses for several weeks
under conditions that are not much dif-
ferent from their former camps.”

Ackermann in conclusion declared: “The
examination of witnesses concerns itself ex-
clusively with crimes committed against Al-
lied nationals ... It is a grotesque fact that
a defendant may be acquitted and dismissed
if he has not murdered a Pole or a French-
man, but only German prisoners. The de-
nazification chamber has no chance to

25

these murderers lies there even half as
convincingly as they did yesterday (20
February) on the Dachau stage, he’ll prob-
ably be classified as a ‘follower’. . .

“We former inmates are not all vindictive.
We are willing to testify with passionate
fervor for every SS-man who behaved de-
cently . . . But we demand that common
criminals who have murdered our German
comrades systematically should receive just
punishment by German courts. That much
we owe to our dead.”

Views on Zorn Position

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) com-
mented on a crisis in the Ehard Government,
precipitated through a proposed vote of
no-confidence for Rudolf Zorn, Bavarian
Minister of Economics, because “of his
position at the election of the chief of
the administrative council of the bizonal
economic office in Minden.”

A vote of 82 io 34 decided against admit-
ting a vote of no-confidence against a single
minister. The paper concluded: “In this way
the existence of the government was saved
and its newly started work assured. In-
cidents among the coalition, like these of the
last days, could have been avoided and must
be avoided in the future. Attempts to break
up the Coalition must be seen as such from
the beginning and at once decisively rejected.
Unfortunately the inner solidarity of the
greater parties of the coalition is still imper-
fect.”

Zorn also published a program that
showed a desire for action and responsibility.
The article was printed in the Muenchner
Mittag (Munich), Neue Presse (Coburg), and
Der Neue Tag (Weiden).

Zorn first painted a dark picture — “The
lack of most important consumer goods has

--- Page 29 ---
finally become intolerable. The working
population of Bavaria can no longer receive
the minimum that is necessary for the pre-
servation of health and working ability” —
and then outlined various measures for
relief, He also insisted on a planned econ-
omy, citing the Papal Encyclical “Quadra-
gesimo Anno” in support.

“Nobody denies the historical necessity of
the capitalist system. But it is now out of
date. The constructive idea of democratic
socialism is pointing the way into the fu-
ture,” declared Zorn, who advocated a basic
reorganization of Bavarian economy:

“It is intended to do now what the time
after the first World War failed to accom-
plish to the great damage of Germany,
namely to democratize the economic adminis-
tration. We want to call in workers and
enterpreneurs for collaboration on all levels
on a basis of equal representation . . . Ba-
varia, the most consolidated Land in the
western zone, must have the courage to lead
the way toward a reform of an economic
system that is antiquated also in the other
Laender . . .”

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth) ex-
amined the opposition against the action of
Zorn in Minden and found that it is primar-
ily inspired by Bavarian particularism. The
paper declared:

“The obstacles that are put into the way
of Dr. Zorn’s program cannot but hurt the
whole Bavarian population. Beyond that.
these attacks are very questionable from the
democratic point of view. In a democracy.
people like Dr. Zorn who have a program
and are willing to carry it out ought at
least to be given a chance; Dr. Zorn and his
program deserve that chance.”

Der Allgauer (Kempten) reported an inter-
view with Zorn, who spoke of the so-called
“Penny Program,” that is, the production of
penny articles such as pins, needles, nails,
matches, and stationary; of the socialization
of mines, of the reorganization of his min-
istry, and of the necessity of a planned
economy.

Zorn declared: “In view of the extreme
poverty of our country, a planned and guid-

ed economy is a social necessity, but indivi-
dual initiative must be preserved as far as
possible . . . I am thinking of giving far-
reaching influence to labor unions and eco-
nomic organizations. The chambers of com-
merce and industry chambers, craft, and
similar organizations will be consulted con-
stantly.”

“Men of Yesterday”

The Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden) said
the Republic of Weimar was taken over
quickly by the “men of yesterday.” Those
who were then ‘men of yesterday,’ the
Papens and Hugenbergs, will not come back
again. But the men ofthe Weimar Republic
who let the Hindenburgs and Hugenbergs
take over and who are now men of yesterday
are the real danger.

“Isn’t political power gliding back into
the hands of those who would have been the
right men two decades ago, but who did not
understand their mission? Aren’t once more
the men of today ‘enabling’ the men of
yesterday . . . Monarchy was then out of
date. Today it is Weimarism. The new state
must be developed not out of the contrasts
of Monarchy vs. Republic, but out of the
more important one: Capitalistic Republic vs.
Socialistic Republic.”

Use of PW’s Opposed

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Regensburg)
criticized the proposal of the International
Committee that German PW’s be used as
“free laborers.” It said in part:

“This proposition is not just... We do
not want to gloss over anything or try to
reduce our own guilt, but this proposition of
the committee will never find our approval.
There is no doubt about it, we have to com-
pensate ... All of us will do our best,
everybody in his place and everybody ac-
cording to his abilty. The PW’s alone shall
not suffer for what the Hitler clique did.
Let them go free and take the Nazis in ex-
change, who are the really responsible ones
for our misery.”

--- Page 30 ---
Marshall’s Reply to Soviet Note

Viewed as Marking New Policy

Secretary of State Marshall’s reply to the
Soviet protest concerning Under-Secretary
Acheson’s statement that Soviet foreign policy
is an “expanding and aggressive one” was
taken by several US newspapers and radio
commentators as marking a move toward a
more candid, straight-forward approach to
problems facing the two couniries. They state
the opinion that Acheson’s comment is borne
out by the facts, and express surprise at the
Soviet’s “supersensitivity” in view of con-
tinuous attacks on the US Government and
economy as carried out by the Soviet Govern-
ment-controlled press and radio, both at
home and abroad.

Cleveland Plain Dealer said in part: “Mar-
shall’s swift defense of Under-Secretary
Acheson against the charge by Foreign Sec-
retary Molotov that he slandered and
showed hostility to the Soviet Union by stat-
ing that its foreign policy was ‘expanding
and aggressive’ introduces a new note in
American relations with Russia. It marks
the end of the era of pussyfooting when a
hush-hush course was always pursued in
regard to Russian matters for fear of of-
fending the sensibilities of Moscow. It opens
a period when a spade will be called just
that and aggression, military or diplomatic,
whatever national label modifies it, will be
given its proper name. This should improve
our relations with the Kremlin, for the Rus-
sians have always shown the utmost con-
tempt for any variety of appeasement . . .

“Knowing where the new Secretary of

State stands on these matters, the Russians
may become, it is to be hoped, more honest
in their dealings with the western powers.
With a frank understanding of the position
of both sides, more substantial progress can
be made in reaching accords on outstanding
issues.”

Radio Commentator Joseph Harsch: “Mar-

27

This is no change in foreign policy. It is to
getting tougher or less tough. It is Marshal}
saying to Molotov, let’s stop playing games
with words and talk like grown men with
each other . . . If Molotov takes the note as
candidly as it was written and faces the facts
as calmly as Marshall has faced them, then
a lot of time and breath can be saved in the
coming conferences, and a lot of posturing
over imagined hurt feelings can be avoided.”

The New York Times: “Marshall points
out that under our constitutional system it
was Mr. Acheson’s duty to answer frankly
relevant questions addressed to him by a
member of Congress at an official hearing.
The question asked was relevant to the dis-
cussion then in progress. When Mr. Acheson
used the phrase “aggressive and expanding,”
he was speaking of a Russian foreign policy
which has added more than 20 million non-
Russians to the possessions of Russia since
the outbreak of the war in Europe. The
phrase he used was not slander, unless a
statement of fact is slander. It was a des-
cription of something that has happened.”

St. Louis Post-Dispatch: “Acheson may
well compare his mild remark with the
drivel about America that is constantly
being printed in the Soviet press and broad-
cast over radio Moscow, which goes without
protest. And the Soviet Union might well
recall that the same Mr. Acheson it now
pounces upon is an American official who,
in times past, has bent over backward to be
fair to Russia.

“This incident is petty enough, and is
worth mentioning only because it is charac-
teristic of a trait of the official Russian
mentality that has caused a good deal of
trouble and misunderstanding between the
Soviet Union and ourselves. Russia ought
to hire a good public relations man to plow
under molehills like this.”

Newport News (Va.) Daily Press: “In

--- Page 31 ---
backing Mi. Acheson s right to oxpress Due
appraisal of Russian objectives without
qualification when he was asked by an of-
ficial body to do so, Marshall has adminis-
tered a courteous yet firm rebuke to the
Kremlin. The Russian school of diplomacy
seems to understand frank, unvarnished
language better than any other.

“Our own opinion is that Russian aggres-
siveness is over estimated and that Russia is
simply (a) relying on the pagan doctrine of
force to maintain her security and (b) blow-
ing hard while she forces her own economy
up to a tolerable level.”

British Withdrawal from India

The British decision to withdraw complete-
ly from India by June 1948 has been
lauded generally in the US press as an
epoch-making pronouncement placing the
responsibility for solution of India’s internal
problems unequivocally in the hands of the
Indian leaders. Widespread comment em-
phasized the necessity for agreement between
the two major factions in India and express-
ed hope that the British decision would prod
the Indian leaders into agreement among
themselves.

New York Herald Tribune said: “Attlee’s
announcement that the British were deter-
mined to withdraw from India whether or
not a new constitution could be agreed upon
by the Indians, is a truly momentous event.
It marks a breach with the older world that
is more striking than anything that has oc-
curred since World War I revolutionized
Europe. A new nation, whose potentialities
can only be guessed at, is rising in Asia —
in a plastic Asia that may yet, in sure hands.
be shaped into a mould for the future of
the world.

“The British might easily have lingered
on in India, playing off Hindu against
Moslem, prince against peasant, presiding
over a tense and costly stalemate in the in-
terest of imperial prestige. By refusing this
role — despite the temptations. which it
must have offered to a government under

Bteat pressace from within and withuus the
country — Attlee and his colleagues have
been statesmanlike. And the British people.
discarding the trappings of imperialism .
have taken on a new dignity and a new
moral strength.”

Cincinnati Enquirer: The Attlee commit-
ment does not promise a united India, as
originally contemplated. It clearly leaves
the way open to three Indian States, a pre-
dominantly Hindu India, a separate State
embracing the heavily Moslem areas, and a
scattered agglomeration of native States
ruled by princes. And that is what a self-
governing India will be, in June of next
year, unless meantime the several factions
can reach agreement on the constitution of
a single Indian confederation with a central
government in common....

“Attlee and his colleagues can very prop-
erly take the position that union or division in
India is not their affair. They have tried
hard to get the Indian factions to join in
drafting a single constitution. Agreement
has proved impossible. It is logically the
responsibility of the Indians to find the
basis for unity within their own number.”

The New York Times: “Every passing
day should now crowd the opposing Indian
leaders closer to some compromise. It may
be that the Moslems themselves can modify
(Moslem leadtr) Jinnahs recalcitrant at-
titude. There are signs that some of them
are trying to do so. A position which is
still politically expedient now may become
untenable a year from now. Nehru may be
shrewd enough to increase his inducements
for Moslem collaboration. It is certain India
cannot build her independence on a deadlock.
Independence with no ability to control it
and no power to maintain it promises only
catastrophe.”

Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: “Whatever In-
dia’s leaders decide to do, the fate of 400
million is in their hands. People everywhere
who believe in the right of self-determination
will hope that within the next 15 months the
leaders will demonstrate a capacity for the
independence so long sought.”

--- Page 32 ---
GERMANY'S WORKSHOP (Continued trom page 7)

tential, are steel and goose feathers. The
other products consumed, tin, brass, cop-
per, lead, cardboard, lacquer, nails and glue.
bakelite, celluloid, are available in Germany
and therefore will not be charged against
the RFC program.

The secret of Germany’s traditional em-
inence in the toy industry lies in the fact
that artisans turn out a continuous stream
of new ideas, and that toys have been pro-
duced to accommodate every price level. For
example, if an American importer ordered
a two dollar mechanical automobile, the
German manufacturer could fill the bill.
The same would hold true of a buyer order-
ing a 50 cent mechanical car.

A leading manufacturer said a shipment
of 35 tons of Swedish steel for the toy in-
dustry, which has been ordered by OMGUS

and is en route, will ensure six months of
production. Some large US retail concerns
are interested in obtaining 30,000 dozens
of artificial Christmas trees for delivery in
December, 1947, but to meet this order, ten
tons of goose feathers are required. These
are difficult to obtain because geese are
searce and their feathers are used in fabri-
cating brushes.

Germany’s toy export trade before the
war approximated RM 30 million per year.
Manufacturers are optimistic that this figure
can be approached again. “

These few export industries, which have
in common a shortage of raw materials, par-
ticularly coal, will play important roles in
the three-year program which is aimed at
making the combined economies of the Brit-
ish and US Zones pay their own way.

Facts on Colliery Consumption Explained

When coal is so vital, it is essential that
the maximum possible amount of the total
coal production ‘should in fact be available
for disposal. Therefore, questions are raised
about internal consumption of the colliers
themselves, usually known as “colliery con-
sumption.” The British Zone Review has
presented the following facts.

The term “colliery consumption” means
all coal consumed directly in colliery plants,
such as steam boilers, locomotives, heating
of workshops and cleaning plants; and also
in auxiliary works such as brickworks, for-
ges, and engineering workshops situated at
or attached to the colliers. ‘Colliery con-
sumption” is given in statistical reports as
actual tonnage, but is usually expressed as
a percentage of the total coal output.

The greater part of colliery consumption
is in boiler plants, and many of the reasons
for this comparatively high consumption are
associated with such plants. The reasons are
as follows: .

1. Certain consumption of energy at the
mine remains constant whatever the output
(for example, ventilation): thus with the pres-

29

ent low output, these overheads tend to
constitute an abnormally high percentage.

2. Power units, such as air compressors,
are not in all cases running to full capacity
and therefore they are less efficient.

3. Owing to their vulnerability, cooling
towers have suffered seriously by blast, and
this has had serious effects upon the effi-
ciency of power generation.

4. Many boiler plants have been severely
damaged and a certain amount of improvi-
sation has been necessary. ‘Steam pipes are
loosened, resulting in loss of heat and lower
efficiency of the boiler plants which are in
operation; superheaters and economizers are
only in use to the extent of 60 percent, which
means a serious loss in efficiency.

5. Only a minimum of maintenance work
was done during the war, so that even with
the rising output, colliery consumption in-
creased from eight percent prewar to 10.5
percent in 1943 and 12 percent in 1944.
Thus lack of normal maintenance has had
an appreciable effect on colliery consump-
tion, and on top of this, there are the con-
sequences of severe war damage.

--- Page 33 ---
BARTER ORGANIZATIONS (Continued from page 9)

articles that have little chance of sale, and
standards are thus kept higher than in the
regular Barter Center.

To prohibit stolen goods from entering
the trade, the barter firms are authorized to
check the identity cards of all barterers. A
ledger is kept at each barter department
where names and addresses of the buyers
and sellers are registered. The number of
the transaction is entered on the ledger as
well as on a tag accompanying the article.
If a barter article later turns out to be a
stolen item, the police merely need to check
the ledgers.

WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN EXCHANGES

Stuttgart’s famous Ring Exchange was
organized in July 1945 by a group of enter-
prising business men under MG supervision.
These men, with the aid of the Economic
Office, selected 20 of the best-known firms
which handle goods ranging all the way
from corsets to bicycles. Only 11 months
later, the example of Stuttgart had proved
so practical that eight Ring Exchanges were
operating in Wuerttemberg-Baden. This
number has since increased to 21, with still
more Tauschrings being formed. Already
more than 400 member firms make up these
organizations. In cities which have suffered
little or no bomb damage, the Tauschrings
are operating even more successfully than in
Stuttgart. In Esslingen, with a population
of only 50,000, there were 50,000 Tauschring
transactions in a year’s time. In the shoe
department alone, there were 17,000 trans-
actions, which means that every third Ess-
lingen inhabitant has bartered a pair of shoes.

Although until recently the idea of co-
operative retail barter organizations was gen-
erally confined to Wuerttemberg-Baden, the
plan now is taking root in other parts of
Germany. In the French Zone, there are
Tauschrings in Reutlingen and Tuttlingen.
Hamburg and Kiel now have large Rings
patterned after the one in Stuttgart. This
past February, the German Price Office in
Minden invited US price control officials in
Stuttgart to visit them to discuss technical

30

details of the Rings with a view to establish-
ing more of these barter organizations. One
of the Stuttgart Tauschring experts has been
placed at the disposal of outside organi-
zations, supplying information and advice
upon request.

Wuerttemberg-Baden has Tauschrings in
nearly every large town and many of them
are expanding their business each month. Up
until now, more than 750,000 barter trans-
actions have been completed in the Land’s
Tauschring organizations, with a total turn-
over of more than RM 3,000,000. Because
of recent increases, however, a turnover of
more than six million Marks may be ex-
pected for 1947.

The goods in which the Tauschring deals
are those of extreme practical importance.
More than 80 percent of the articles are
textiles, footwear, and household articles and
tools — commodities which are rationed.
The importance of individual products varies
in the different Tauschring organizations, In
two local Rings the business in footwear
amounted to 70 percent of the total turnover
during the first few months of their exis-
tence. In another town, the department for
household articles and tools handled 50 per-
cent of the total turnover. Experience
has shown that the volume of business of the
individual branch departments depends
largely upon the efficiency and ability of the
storekeeper.

IMPORTANCE OF ADVERTISING

As with every business, advertising is
very important in developing the Tauschring
idea. All Tauschring members have there-
fore agreed to centralize the publicity de-
partment in Stuttgart. In this city, all
posters, Tauschring labels, and handbills are
designed and — when the paper supply is
sufficient — printed. Not long ago a public-
ity campaign was launched under the head-
ing, “The Tauschring Helps.” Special hand-
bills were designed to appeal to the farmer,
the craftsman, the gardner,and the housewife.

Newspaper advertising is comparatively
scarce because of the shortage of newspaper

--- Page 34 ---
space. Radio advertisements are currently
prepared by the Stuttgart Tauschring publi-
city department and broadcast on a daily
MG program over Radio Stuttgart. Sea-
sonal influences like the rush on toys before
Christmas were anticipated long before the
season arrived with announcements soliciting
the public to offer their unused toys to the
Tauschring.

‘When a survey was made of public opin-
ion on the Stuttgart Exchange, it was found
that 99 percent of the people questioned had
learned of the Ring — 29 percent from
newspapers, 25 percent from posters, 22 per-
cent from radio, and 23 percent from friends.

PROJECTED PUBLICITY METHODS

Still newer publicity methods are in the
making. Tauschring information centers are
to be established in the main business dis-
tricts of the cities where prospective bar-
terers can be advised and informed of avail-
able supplies. In addition, a campaign is
being launched to increase good-will among
retail businessmen for the Tauschring organ-
izations. It will be pointed out that the
Rings are a means of strengthening the posi-
tion and reputation of retail trade by fighting
the black market and improving trading
morals. Retailers, if convinced of this fact,
will recommend the Tauschring in cases
where they cannot serve their customers.
Trade unions also will be approached for
their support since the growth of these bar-
ter organizations can ease the present tension
caused by the disproportion between wages
and cost of living.

So that small barter exchanges all over
Germany may profit by the Tauschring ex-
perience gained in Stuttgart, publicity is
being extended to a Land level. Arran-
gements have been made by the Public Re-
lations Section, Regional Military Govern-
ment for Wuerttemberg-Baden, to give
Land-wide newspaper publicity to the barter-
exchange idea. A monthly Tauschring-
bulletin was started in September 1946. This
bulletin contains all relevant Tauschring in-
formation on progress of the organization,
changes of policy, proposals for better sales

management and customer service, and spe-
cific experience gathered in the field.

On 26 November, the first official meeting
of all Tauschring directors was held in Ess-
lingen under the auspices of the Land Eco-
nomic Office. Representatives at the meeting
decided to keep the central Tauschring man-
agement in Stuttgart as an informal head
organization of all local Tauschrings. The
head office has a nine-member elected board
who are mostly directors of local Tausch-
rings. Two advertising experts also are in-
cluded in the group. All local Tauschrings
will pay a fee of one percent of their turn-
over to the head office to be used in the
central advertising department.

Tauschring experts predict increasing
growth, both in the number of rings and the
business of each organization. The need to
barter will be gone only when the present
shortage of consumer goods on the free mar-
ket is eliminated — a condition not expected
in the near future. Clothes and shoes are
worn out, household goods, tools, motors,
and machinery will have to be replaced. The
rural population is still a reservoir for sur-
plus goods which could be exchanged for
food and farm products. The further the
Tauschring spreads to the medium-sized
towns the better will be the chances to use
these reserves for the good of all concerned.

Allied Military Mark Notes

MG was advised by the Legal Division.
OMGUS, to refuse redemption of Allied Mil-
itary Mark notes on which the serial num-
bers are omitted unless proof has been estab-
lished that they were legally issued without
serial numbers. The opinion stated that if the
Finance Division is able to ascertain that a
note was duly issued and the defect is the
result of a mistake of the issuing authority,
MG may redeem the note under provision of
MGR 16-330.

If, however, it was not issued in conform-
ity with the law, it is not subject to redemp-
tion, since the absence of an essential feature
of validity puts all who receive it on notice
that it is defective and not negotiable.

--- Page 35 ---
OCCUPATION PROBLEMS APPRAISED (Continued from page 13)

up certain central German agencies, which
have never been set up, and that has severely
handicapped government of Germany in my
opinion .. . The directives and policies are
all right. What we need is the execution of
the policy ... Therefore, the Allied Control
Council has not fulfilled its duty. The only
remedy for that condition is for the govern-
ments of the individual countries to direct
its representatives on the Allied Control
Council to carry out the Berlin Protocol . . .

(There is) no plan for the political merger
(of the British and US Zones). If you
remember my statement that I made when I
invited the other countries to join us in the
economic fusion, I made it perfectly plain
that we were not prejudging the political
status of Germany and that the political
government would not be affected by the
economic merger of the two zones. We still
are abiding by that particular statement of
policy...

A quadripartite law may be passed but in
view of the fact that there is really no central
administration for Germany, the only ef-
fective way to carry out a law now is to
have the zone commanders do it. If you have
a central (agency) — say, central transport
organization — and you passed a law with
respect to transport, then it should be carried
out by the central administration and not by
the zone commanders but there is no physical
administration which can carry out those
things now. It has to be done by the zone
commanders.

The longer we remain, as you might say,
as four separate entities within Germany
under four different powers, naturally the
development in those particular zones will
more and more follow the policies of the
country which happens to be occupying
them. If our differences are major, we will
draw apart. And the longer we continue
that system the more difficult it will be...

It certainly has slowed down and delayed
the recovery of Germany in an economic
sense. It has also delayed the formation in
Germany of a democratic:government. Tt has

32

brought forth certain differences, ideological
differences, on the part of the four occupy-
ing countries, which naturally have had their
results in the political development within
the four zones. You can take a look at the
constitutions in the states in the US Zone,
and you will see that they are in effect
somewhat similar to our own Constitution.
The constitutions within the Soviet Zone, on
the other hand, tend to follow the political
thought of the Soviet Union .. .

I don’t think a new sharpening of the dif-
ferences in Germany is going to lead to
another war. Not at all...

The German state still exists. What is
actually the territory which will be a part
of the German state in the peace treaty has
not yet been defined. However, the German
state as the German state was defined by the
Berlin Protocol is still in existence. It has no
central government... There have been pro-
posals submitted to the Allied Control Coun-
cil for the formation of German central ad-
ministrations, but they have not yet been
agreed upon...

I firmly believe that if the leaders of the
political parties in Germany and the leaders
of the trade unions desire to bring about a
political and moral regeneration within
Germany, that they have the power to so
inculcate the mass of German people with
these principles that they can arrive at that
happy state.

Frankly, I have sometimes felt with
respect to the political parties that the
leaders have been more concerned with
establishing their own position than they
have with attempting to inform the mass of
the German people as to the principles of
true democracy which are necessary before
Germany can take its place as one of the
peace-loving nations of the world and join
the United Nations. On the whole, I believe
the trade unions are doing a much better job
along these lines than the political parties...
Naturally I base my remarks primarily
upon the actions of the trade unions in the
US Zone . :