--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 88 / 14 APRIL 1947

SSS TA RTA TIERS TI ERO eR POSTE SH PAST BEE

MILK RATION POINT

thane ae

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
BIEDEN-
OnE MARBURG

ALSFELO

LAUTERBACH,

OBER =
LAHNKREIS

FRIEOBERG

QBERTAUNUS|

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU|
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD’

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAL
HEILBRONN

Yo BACKNANG
PEORZHEIM
LEONBERG
BUBLINGEN Foases|

BODINGEN

WIESBADEN,

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORHATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Redesignation of Bulk Allotment Units (Non-T/O) and Installations

Preparation of Tables of Allowances. .......

Interzone Arrests and Transfer of Criminal Between the US/Eritish
Zones. ew ee ee

Policy for Assembling, Training, and Competitions of Athletic Teams
Monthly Engineer Operations Report, US Occupied Area, ECENG-2
Graves Registration, etc... . .....
Non-Regular Army Enlisted Personnel. . . . ... 2...

Procurement, Distribution, Rationing, and Consumption of Class VI
Supplies . . . oe

Payment of Military Payment Certificates to Personnel

in Labor
Service Companies (Civilian). . 2... 2. .

Transfer of Aluminium Scrap to OMGUS. . . . 5 0
Shoulder Sleeve Insignia. °. . . ........
Allowances of Expendable Quartermaster Supplies. . . . .
Support of Bizonal and Bipartite Agencies. . .......
Accident Prevention ..............
Forwarding of Field Military 201 Files. . . 2... ....0.
Factors to be Utilized in Determining Requirements for
Quarters... ... 4. rr
International Business Tabulating Equipment. .......
Pre-Occupation Postage Stamps . . .

Handling of the Flag of the United States. ........
Consignment of Rail Shipments to Paris and Other Large Cities
Control] Council Law No.47......2..02. .
Correction of the German Translation of Military Ordinance No.9
Publications and Blank Forms. ........

Redesignation of Unit — 7737 Military eee eat to 7740th
War Crimes Company. ... . o .

Attachment of 7771st Documents Center. . . ... . .

AG 322 GCT-AGO
19 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 400.34 GCT-AGO
20 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 250.3 (IA)
21 March 1947, OMGUS

AG 353.8 GAP-AGO
21 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 400 GCT-AGO
21 March 1947, EUCOM

Circular No. 1
25 March 1947, EUCOM

Circular No. 2
25 March 1947, EUCOM

Circular No. 3
25 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 248 GDS-AGO
25 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 400.93 GDS-AGO
25 March 1947, EUCOM

Gen. Orders No, 10
25 March 1947, EUCOM

Circular No, 4
26 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 014.1 GDS-AGO
26 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 729.3 GAP-AGO
26 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 201.3 AGO-R
27 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 292 GDS-AGO
27 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 413.51 GDS-AGO
27 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 311.14 (TA)
28 March 1947, OMGUS

AG 424 GAP-AGO
28 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 520 RYT-AGO
28 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 010.6 (FD)
31 March 1947, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (LD)
31 March 1947, OMGUS

Staff Memo No. 17
31 March 1947, OMGUS

Gen Orders No. 26
31 March 1947, OMGUS

Gen, Orders No. 27

"31 March 1947, OMGUS

Sanitary Reports. 2... 1... eee
Sale of Used Motor Vehicles... .......04.
General License No.8 Issued Pursuant to MG Law No. 52

Revision of Amendment of MG Regulations .

Circular No. 5
31 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 451 GAP-AGO
31 March 1947, EUCOM

AG 010.6 (LD)
1 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (MD)
1 April 1947, OMGUS

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

MILK RATION POINT — The picture on
this week's cover shows a group of German
housewives lined up at a rationing point in
Stutigcri, waiting to receive their daily
allocation of milk. An article on the current
food problem in Germany appears on page 4
f this issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Material for Battle of the Rhine was sub-
‘mitted by the Water Transport Branch of
Transpo:t Division, OMGUS. The article
explains the problems encountered by trans-
‘Port authorities in attempting to keep the
Rhine river open for continuous navigation
‘during the past winter, Germany's worst
An 50 years, e

OMGUS Reference Library was written
by Henry A. Dunlap, Chief Librarian. It deals
With the facilities and organization of the
library which provides MG and other
Ametican personnel in Berlin with reference
Material in numerous fields.

_ Gerneny's Food Problem was prepared
from material furnished by the Food and
Agriculture Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS. The article presents the latest facts
in the German food situation, and explains
the ciforis being made by MG and German
Officials to deal with the problems con-

fronted in producing and distributing Ger-
Many's food,

4

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Germany's Food Problem
OMGUS Reference Library
Battle of the Rhine

L&S Office Instruction .

US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES .

GERMAN REACTIONS

EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

PAGE
9

10
13

16
19
22
23

--- Page 7 ---
ermanys
ood
roblem

oa of democracy, MG officials have found,
does not interest most Germans when their
stomachs are empty. For a while “results of
war” seemed to the urban dweller a logical
reason for short rations, but as they see their
families losing weight and strength they begin
to wonder whether “democratic government”
can be as good as the old days when there was
sufficient to eat. The fact that food experts
are bringing order out of chaos against terrific
handicaps fails to impress them while their
plates are still empty.

Then too, as the population grows weaker
it is less able to work toward self-sufficiency.
A whole generation of teen-age Germans may
grow up in a physically-weakened condition.

For these main reasons Germany's food
deficiency is considered one of the most press-
ing problems of the occupation today. Officials
believe it is of prime importance to ease the
present critical condition.

Health authorities say that the minimum safe ~
diet level for the German civilian population
for a limited period of time is 2,000 calories
per day, with a large caloric intake depending
upon age, occupation, and health. At no time
since the start of the occupation, however,
has it been possible to reach a normal con-
sumer ration providing more than 78 percent
of this level. It has, in fact, been necessary
at times to reduce the amount even below this
percentage. What the health authorities say is
borne out by deterioration in the physical
condition of the population. Since the occu-
pation the normal consumer ration in the US-
UK Zones has ranged fiom 860 to 1,550

--- Page 8 ---
calories per person per day and in only seven
of the 21 months since VE-Day has the level
been 1,550 in both zones, Of this amount 83 per-
cent is made up wholly of potatoes and grain
products. However 26 percent of the non-farm
adult population of the US Zone receive
supplements to the normal ration.

By the end of 1947 the population dependent
upon the agricultural resources of the US-
UK Zones will be 25 percent larger than in
1939. Most of the new people are refugee or
expellee men, women, and children who do
not add to skilled labor. Yet production of
food grains, potatoes, and sugar beets has
decreased from 1939 approximately one-third.

Taking into account the infinite number of
difficulties involved, MG officials have devis-
ed a plan for the next few years which should
do much to pull the German people out of
their serious food problem. The program is
designed to restore the cultivated area of food
crops to the 1938 level by no later than 1948;
increase the amount of land under cultivation;
raise the daily caloric intake; establish the
amount of essential imports to be brought into
the country; improve seed, fertilizer, and other

Residents of Bamberg await their turn to buy their ration of fish.

farm necessities; and plan for better collection
of farm products from farmers.

Even before the war, the area of Germany
incorporated in the US-UK Zones was de-
pendent upon food imports. A large increase
in population plus decrease in food production
causes the present serious food deficiency. The
United States and England, therefore, planto
import sufficient food and supplies to bring
about recovery of agriculture and industrial
exports as quickly as possible. Imports needed
to provide a moderately balanced diet would
cost $ 613,700,000 per year until economic
recovery is possible—a cost to be divided
equally between the US and UK according
to the bizonal agreements.

Part of the food program is full use of all
available land for the growing of crops.
Approximately one-third of the land area of
both zones is arable. A little over one-quarter
of the total area is in forests, and another
24 percent is used for pastures and meadows.
The principal sources of additional areas for
cultivation are forests, meadows, and pastures,
It is believed that during the next three years

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 9 ---
the total amount of arable land can be in-
creased between six and seven percent.

When the Nazis were in power they impos-
ed controls on prices of farm products. Dur-
ing the war prices generally remained frozen
at their October 1936 level although a system
of subsidies to stimulate and direct farm pro-
duction was placed on 30 products. In March
1946 most of the subsidies were abolished and
prices moderately changed in the US Zone.
In the British Zone, grain subsidies were
eliminated and prices adjusted in July 1946.
These changes decreased farm prices for grain
about five percent and reduced livestock and
livestock-product prices about 10 percent. On
the other hand, goods purchased by farmers
have risen somewhat. To obtain industrial
goods in larger quantities farmers have
bartered on the black market.

Income Declines Drastically

On the whole, farmers have become distrust-
ful of currency. They are reluctant to save
money because they think there may be
greater inflation or a monetary change. They
have, therefore, a strong incentive to put their
money in livestock. The value of livestock
and livestock products is increasing while the
value of money is decreasing. Even though
crops fed to livestock lose from 75 to 85 per-
cent of their caloric value in the process of
conversion to meat and milk, farmers are
disgruntled that they are temporarily required
to sell crops direct rather than market them
through livestock products. If they carry out
the edict that they sell grains and potatoes
rather than feed them to livestock, their in-
come goes down drastically. Yet Germany
must have grain and potatoes for feeding
people in metropolitan sections of the country.

To balance the amount of livestock with the
needs of the country for meat and harvest
food, MG has established a livestock adjust-
ment program which is to reduce the herds
considerably through the planned slaughter of
cattle, hogs, and sheep for meat. Results of
last December's livestock census demonstrated
that urgent necessity for further livestock ad-
justment in the US Zone as hogs showed an
increase of 17.8 percent over the number
reported for December 1945, while cattle in-
creased by 1.5 percent, goats by 5.5 percent,
and poultry 3 percent.

This is one of the most difficult parts of the
whole food program to carry out. It is strongly

resisted by both German officials and farmers.
They see it as destroying the source of meat
and livestock products which are already in
short supply in the German diet.

Carrying out the 1947 plans, therefore,
depends in large part upon the willingness of
farmers to accept individual responsibility.
Cultivation quotas have béen established for
each Land and allocated to counties, town-
ships, and individual producers. Generous
producer premiums in sugar stimulated pro-
duction of sugar beets in 1946. But with a
scarcity of other consumer goods, no general
incentive program for the cultivation plan is
possible. Education, reprimand, and the threat
of penalty must be relied upon to stimulate
farmers to carry out the land-use plan.

For the immediate future, MG officials are
reestablishing the 1938 food production levels.
This goal can be reached only with adequate
supplies of seed, fertilizer, machinery, and
other production necessities. These supplies
would allow high yields per hectare and would
serve as an inducement to farmers to seed
greater areas. Farmers hesitate to plant their
land with poor quality seed, and when ferti-
lizers are inadequate they prefer to apply ad-
exquate quantities to a smaller area. Larger
quantities of all these materials must be im-
ported into the US-UK Zones if the food
program is to succeed.

Crop Yields Below Average

As a result of a cumulative deficiency in
fertilizers during the war and the poor quality
of seed, 1946 yields per hectare in the two
zones were considerably below their 1934-38
level. For the combined zones 1946 yields of
potatoes were 22 percent under 1934-38, and
yields of food grains were 24 percent lower.
Yields of oilseeds and sugar beets were 44 per-
cent and 28 percent respectively below 1934-38
averages because of pests, disease, and winter
killing as well as fertilizer deficiency. Milk
production in both zones in the year ending
June 1946 was about 8,893,000 tons compared
with an average of 12,114,000 tons for 1939
to 1943, This decline of nearly 30 percent was
due wholly to a decrease in the average pro-
duction per cow, since milk-cow numbers in
both zones were slightly higher in December
1945 than in 1938. Causes for this sharp re-
duction in yield include lack of fodder and
protein-rich concentrates for livestock. .

--- Page 10 ---
In order to increase the protein diet of the
German people, fishing fleets have been ex-
ploited to the maximum. The construction of
100 new trawlers has been authorized by the
ACA. In the meantime, vessels used for mine-
sweeping and other duties are being converted
and made available for fishing.

Forests in the US-UK Zones continued to
be overcut in order to meet the essential post-
war military, export, and civilian needs, and
to reduce the war potential of excessive re-
serve of timber. The UK Zone has a lower
proportion of wooded area in comparison with
the US Zone, while the timber requirements
are very high because of its large population
and heavy concentration of industry. Asurvey
to determine the amount of forest land suitable
for conversion to food crop production has
been made. But since forests are almost
universally located on poor soils and steep
lands which are submarginal for cultivation,
only small areas have been found suitable for
such conversion.

One of the basic problems in a food scarce
economy is to be sure that farmers sell their

produce through legal channels so that the
maximum amounts of food can be equitably
distributed for human consumption. In Ger-
many during the war the decreasing ration for
the non-farm population and the growing
shortage of consumer goods provided an in-
ducement to farmers to obtain more money by
selling their produce illegally or to barter it
for scarce goods. Despite the enormous Nazi
police system it is believed that much food
went into illegal channels from farms. With
the collapse of production and marketing con-
trols at the end of the war, these pressures
were greatly magnified. The ration in cities
was cut to starvation levels, consumer goods
became almost unobtainable, and the currency,
which could buy little useful for farmers,
became greatly inflated although legal prices
for farm products remained roughly at pre-
occupation levels. With over 1,600,000 farms
in the two zones it is impossible for the limited
number of MG personnel to police deliveries

(Continued on page 17)
(Left) Typical German farmers plow their fields
immediately after harvesting their crops on a farm
near Bamberg. (Below) A shipment of flour is un-

loaded in the yard of the Berlin civilian food office.
Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 11 ---
SOMGUS.

By Henry A. Dunlap

ae a modest beginning in a tiny office of
the IG Farben Building nearly two years
ago, the OMGUS Reference Library has
grown into an imposing institution possessing
more then 50,000 volumes. Still expanding
rapidly, it now occupies 10 rooms on the
third floor of the Director Building within the
OMGUS Compound in Berlin and serves all the
offices and divisions of Military Government.

Most of this growth came about when the
Berlin Document Center donated its extensive

A member of the Reference Library staff aids an
OMGUS civilian employee in seeking reference material.

book collection numbering approximately
40,000 volumes. These books, added on
1 January 1946, are the Library's largest and
most valuable single collection. They include
editions formerly belonging to the Deutsche
Arbeitsfront, and volumes from many other
Nazi and quasi-military organizations. All
this material was confiscated by American
intelligence agents in the field and sent to
the Berlin Document Center for evaluation
and use by MG agencies.

Photo by PRO OMGUS

--- Page 12 ---
The Library also has received other
substantial gifts. The Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace gave a collection of
several hundred volumes dealing with inter-
national law and relations, economics, and
political science. The Library of Congress,
through its mission in Berlin, donated current
American books and several hundred period-
icals. OMGUS offices, divisions, and inter-
ested individuals have made small but
significant contributions of books and
periodicals.

On its own part, the Library has bought
books in English from the United States and
German editions from local bookstores in
Berlin. Most of these purchases are made
following suggestions from various offices
and divisions of OMGUS. One of the greatest
problems faced by the Library is the acquisition
of current books, periodicals, and newspapers.
Transportation difficulties and temporary lack
of funds have made this problem virtually
insoluble at the present time, but better con-
ditions may be expected for the fiscal
year 1948,

Another source of published material is

through exchange with US libraries. So far,
this rarely has been done, but the Library
keeps all duplicate copies of books in excess
of its needs for the time when transportation
conditions are better.

Through the cooperation of the Publications
Control Branch of the Information Control
Division one copy of every book, pamphlet,
and periodical published in the US Zone
under license is given to the Reference
Library. Thus the institution is developing
into a miniature Library of Congress for the
US Zone. These materials are being preserved
not only for reference at the present time,
but also for future students and historians.

The OMGUS Library hopes to acquire yet
another valuable collection of books. A plan
is now under discussion for the Library of
Congress Mission to donate its Master File
of Nazi books. This file consists of one copy
of every book collected by OMGUS under
the provisions of the Allied Control Authority
Order No. 4. If this plan is approved, MG
Headquarters will have available for immed-
iate use a collection numbering approximately
20,000 volumes, dealing with all aspects

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 13 ---
Battle

of the

oal—vital to the rebirth of decent econo-
C. standards in Germany—once again is
moving on the Rhine. Trying to keep the coal
moving along this chief route of transportation
during the severe winter months just passed
required all the technical skill available among
German and MG officials. Even so, they found
they were no match for the strength of a
German winter.

Greatest barrier was the blocked ice around
the famed Lorelei gorge which at one time
during the winter reached a thickness of 16
feet. In the US Zone ice conditions usually
develop first on the Main and Neckar rivers,
followed in a few days by the Rhine. During
a continued cold period, an ice barrier forms
in the Rhine immediately above the Lorelei,
where the river makes a turn of 90 degrees
and where the water moves slowly. The ice
formations start first along the banks and soon
ice floes emerge and float down the river. As
cold temperatures persist, a complete barrier
of ice reaches across the river.

Freeze Halts Traffic on River

Ice formation began on the Rhine about
the middle of December. On 20 December all
navigation through the mountain section was
suspended. It was resumed however on 31 De-
cember following a few days of higher temper-
atures. The really severe freeze began about
the middle odf January, resulting in complete
closure of the river about 20 January, lasting
until the first days of March.

Whenever the ice barrier began to develop,
ice breakers went into action. According to a
general ice control plan worked out by the

10

hine

German Waterways Administration, ice
breakers had been assigned to strategic points
ready to go into operation on certain river
sections at a moment's notice. The boats
began to plow up and down the river to keep
the ice floes moving and prevent the closing
of the barrier. Explosive dumps were in read-
iness in various localities with blast crews
standing by. The joined in the work, blasting

the ice extending from the banks.
Blasting Efforts Prove Discouraging

No blasting was done in the American Zone
because ice control can be undertaken only at
the lower end of the barrier where the ice has
a chance to float away. German engineers
under French control performed extensive
blasting operations above the Lorelei with the
aid of German engineers and crews from the
US Zone, but the results were discouraging.

Their combined efforts could delay the
locking of the barrier from one to two days.
Even though eight ice breakers were in service
on the Rhine, seven on the Main, and two on
the Neckar, when temperatures remained low
nothing could be done to prevent the solid
freezing of the ice. The breakers were too
light to crush the ice, and heavier breakers,
even if available, could not be used because
of their deeper draft. Boats under these
conditions simply ride up on the ice which is
strong enough to support their weight. Blast-
ing also was practically useless because the
slow velocity of the water—usually present
when ice conditions exist—prevented the floes
from floating away. The loosened ice froze
together again as fast as it was broken up and

--- Page 14 ---
the ice barrier on the Rhine proceeded up-
stream,

Meanwhile, ice had so chocked the Ruhr
loading ports that loaded barges were maroon-
ed in winter harbors out of the path of ice
floes floating downstream. These floes were a
source of danger to all ships and bridges in
their path. The military highway bridge at
Duesseldorf, for example, was swept 300 meters
downstream 10 December by on-rushing ice.

When a thaw occurs—particularly a sudden
thaw—blasting crews watch the river for
spots where ice might be damming up. There
they explode their charges to prevent the
backing up of water, which sooner or later
would develop enough pressure to push the ice
ahead of itself as a crushing force.

Because of the winter's severity, the Rhine
above the Lorelei eventually was covered
with a solid mass of ice extending at one time
as far up as Schierstein, below Mainz.

In the middle of February a tripartite meet-
ing was held to discuss the ice problem on the

Rhine. At this meeting, the feasibility of aerial
bombardment of the ice was first considered,
but previous experience indicated that bombs
of less than 500 kg would be ineffective while
500 kg bombs might result in damage to ad-
jacent towns. Mortar shelling was considered
and discarded for similar reasons, while the
use of flame throwers, tried by the British dur-
ing the war on canals in North Germany with-
out results, also was abandoned.

The delegates agreed that blasting and the
use of ice breakers were the only ways to
fight the ice, and these operations therefore
were continued. A channel about 60 ft. wide
and extending upstream a few hundred meters
was opened with the help of a rise in water
temperature of from one to two tenths of one
degree.

A few days later, for some unknown reason,
with atmospheric temperatures still consider-
ably below freezing, the water temperature
rose to one-half degree C above freezing and
overnight a channel opened up in the ice

Ice jams such as this constituted a major problem during the
past winter, as MG and German transport officials attempted to
keep the Rhine open for essential water transport activities.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 15 ---
barrier, extending almost up to Lorch. A day
later a similar channel opened on the upstream
side almost down to Ruedesheim, and-a few
days later the two channels met, completing
an opening of 36 foot minimum in width all
the way through the barrier.

This greatly reduced the dangers to be ex-
pected with the thaw, but the masses of ice
which broke loose and floated downstream
were of such magnitude that all efforts to pass
the floes through the opening of the Neuwied
bridge failed, ending in the collapse of the
bridge. On the whole, however, the thaw on
the Rhine this spring was gradual enough to
avoid serious ice and high-water damage.
Nevertheless, water levels rose rapidly on the
Main and Rhine rivers as solid ice covers of
all harbors and canals quickly vanished or
became non-dangerous small floes. By 7 March,
ice had been cleared out of the Lorelei gorge

Two crew members of a Rhine river barge clean up
equipment while waiting in port for their next run.

and it became possible tonavigate downstream
as far as the wrecked Neuwied bridge. On
17 March wreckage had been removed and
navigation resumed at skippers’ risk.

The winter of 1946/47 is gone. With the in-
creased transport of coal along the Rhine,
industries are raising their production, and the
railroads are carrying other essential freight.

The closure of the Rhine to navigation
caused by ice conditions during the past winter
created severe shortages in the fuel supply of
the US Zone. Many essential industries were
forced to close down. People were shivering
in unheated homes while tons of coal in load-
ed barges stood waiting. Improvements in
conditions of waterways accomplished in the
past year will, however, make it possible to
increase the transportation of coal on the
Rhine during the present year and to build up
stockpiles so that possible closure of the river
next winter will not be so disastrous.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 16 ---
DUTIES FOR L&S OFFICE DEFINED

New SOP Details the Organization, Functions, and Operation
For each Detachment; Administrative Activities also Listed

“Standard Operating Procedure for Military
Government Liaison and Security Offices and
Administrative Units” is defined on the
OMGUS directive, AG 300.8 (CA), issued
by the Office of the Military Governor on
31 March 1947. The text: follows in full.

Part I Liaison and Security Offices

1, ORGANIZATION

a) Location.—Liaison and Security Offices
will be established and maintained in each
Stadtkreis, and in each Landkreis containing
no Stadtkreis. The site will be selected within
the Kreis with a view toward general con-
venience to the public and German govern-
mental agencies.

b) Strength.—The Director of Military Gov-
ernment in each Land will determine the
number of personnel required for each Liaison
and Security Office based on the size of the
Kreis, allotment of personnel, border problems,
and other pertinent factors. A minimum
strength. of two officers will be maintained
in each office. Personnel will be rotated
within the Lander on the general principle

that no military personnel shall remain on -

duty in any locality for more than one year.

c) Assignments.—The Senior Officer in each
Detachment will be designated as the Mili-
tary Government Officer, Landkreis .
and Detachment Commander. He will be
responsible for the supervision of the activi-
ties of all members of the Detachment and
their administration and assignment to speci-
fic duties. One officer of the Detachment will
be designated as Public Safety Officer and
charged with direct supervision over all
matters of Public Safety and Security. One
member will be designated as Special Branch
Officer charged with direct supervision over
Denazification and the operation of Denazi-
fication Tribunals. (One officer may be re-
quired to perform any number of the duties
listed above).

d) Command.—The Military Government
Officer of each Liaison and Security Office
will operate directly under the Land Director.
Each Detachment will be assigned for admi-

13

nistrative purposes to a unit of the Military
Government Battalion (Regiment) of the Land.

e) Conduct.—Military Government person-
nel will conduct themselves at all times as
models of neatness, courtesy, alertness and
professional ability to the extent that by per-
sonal example, they shall personify demo-
cratic culture and gain respect and prestige
for Military Government. “’

2. MISSION

Military Government mission of the Liaison
and Security Office is: (1) to help insure
compliance by Germans, United Nationals, US
personnel and ail others with Military Gov-
ernment laws, quadripartite agreements and
US occupation policy; (2) to aid Military Go-
vernment and the Occupying Forces in car-
rying out basic Military Government policy;
(3) to observe, assist and advise (but not
direct), German governmental agencies in the

. administration and enforcement of German

laws; (4) to help promote the development of
a democratic system in Germany; and (5) to
aid effectuation of the four cardinal principles
of Military Government policy, Demilitariza-
tion, Denazification, Decentralization and De-
mocratization.

3. DUTIES OF THE MILITARY GOVERN-
MENT OFFICER

The Military Government Officer is charged |
with the following responsibilities and duties.
He will not be given other duties except by
the Land Director. He may delegate duties in
connection with the responsibilities listed
below to any member of his detachment.

a) German Civil Administration—Remains
at all times thoroughly familiar with the
organization and operation of the German
government. Maintains liaison with local Ger-

‘man officials, i. e. Landrat, Biirgermeister,

and other Kreis officials. By frequent con-
ferences with officials concerned keeps him-
self continuously informed of the problems
involved and the procedures used in compli-
ance with Military Government policies and
directives and German laws. Observes whether

--- Page 17 ---
such policies and laws are enforced in a fair
and impartial manner. Frequently contacts
the Biirgermeister of all Gemeinden in order
to keep in close touch with all levels of Go-
vernment throughout the Landkreis. Particu-
larly observes whether or not the basic prin-
ciple of decentralization of Government is

being carried out. Observes, evaluates, and

reports his findings in all matters of civil
administration to the Land Military Govern-
ment.

b) German Economy.—Becomes familiar
with the German economy in his area and
keeps currently informed on matters pertain-
ing to production, and distribution of food
operating in his Kreis and the difficulties, if
products. Knows what industries are in
any, that are encountered in obtaining neces-
sary raw materials, power, labor, tools, and
equipment. Knows the existing ration regu-
lations on foodstaffs, clothing, shoes, and
other rationed products and observes enforce-
ment of these regulations. By observation and
interviews with local officials including food
investigators and criminal police keeps con-
tinuously informed of measures to combat
black market operations. Maintains liaison
with public officials in charge of Public Uti-
lities, Communications, Labor, Housing and
Agriculture.

c) Political Activity—Keeps in touch with
the chairmen and officials of all political
parties. Observes, evaluates, and reports on
the political activities of all parties authorized
to organize in the Kreis. Is thoroughly fami-
liar with the election laws and reports any
violations of these laws. Reports any un-
authorized political activity or any such
activity that is detrimental to Military Gov-
ernment to appropriate branch at Land Head-
quarters.

d) Denazification—Through the Special
Branch Officer keeps thoroughly informed of
the progress of denazification. Closely observes
by personal visits to sessions of the Spruch-
kammer, its operation and efficiency. Keeps
informed of the political history and back-
ground of the chairman, public prosecutor,
and members of the Spruchkammer, the char-
ges of the Public Prosecutor and decisions of
the Tribunals. (See para 5 outlining specific
duties of Special Branch Officer).

e) Demilitarization—Observes progress of
demilitarization in the Kreis including de-

struction of forts, bunkers, and military works
of all kinds except barracks; the destruction
or demilitarization of captured enemy material
including ammunition, (Letter OMGUS sub-
ject: Transfer of captured Enemy Material to
Office of Military Government dated 20 De-
cember 1946). Reports any failures to carry
out above policy and directives. Watches for
any attempts at the formation of organizations
of a military or semi-military nature. Reports
immediately such violations to the Land
Director and the Tactical Commander. respons-
ible for security of the area.

f) Youth Activity— Advises, encourages
and assists the German Youth Activity Com-
mittees in promulgating an appropriate and
satisfactory program in accordance with the
directives of the Commander in Chief, Euro-
pean Command. Coordinates the activities
and assistance provided by other American
or Allied agencies. Sees that the program
follows democratic principles. Assists in ob-
taining equipment, reading material, club
rooms, heating, and transportation.

g) Education.—Observes the progress of
Education and Educational Institutions and
the trend toward teaching and understanding
of democratic ideas and principles. Keeps in-
formed by personal observation, and inter-
views with the Schulrat and other officials, of
the buildings and facilities available for

- schools, the problems of food, clothing, shoes,

14

and supplies for the students and the avail-
ability of competent and politically accept-
able teachers. Reports any deficiencies noted
to the Education and Religious Affairs Branch
of the Land Military Government.

h) Public Safety—Through the Public Sa-
fety Officer or personally observes the effi-
ciency of the German local police in enforc-
ing law and order. Observes the efficiency of
fire prevention and control in the area. Ob-
serves and reports upon the operation and
efficiency of the Border Police in Kreis bor-
dering Austria—Czechoslovakia and the
French and Russian Zones of occupation.
(See para 4 for detailed duties of the Public
Safety Officer).

i) Public Health—Maintains liaison with
the Kreisarzt (Public Health Official) and
keeps in constant touch with the trend of
infectious and communicable diseases. Ob-
serves and reports on the lack of availability
of facilities for isolating open infections tuber-

--- Page 18 ---
culosis and other contagious diseases. As the
Public Health of a community is of vital im-
portance to the occupying troops as well as
the civilian population it is of utmost impor-
tance that he keeps constantly informed on
all matters pertaining to public health in order
to avoid'possible epidemics or the spread of
communicable diseases. Keeps constantly
vigilant to see that the VD policies of Mili-
tary Government are carried out by the Ger-
man police and Public Health officials in the
apprehension and treatment of carries.

j) Housing.—Observes the conditions exist-
ing in housing the population of the Kreis,
particularly provisions made for refugees and
their assimilation into the community with
special emphasis on problems concerning
disease, unsanitary conditions and the lack
of fair and impartial treatment of all con-
cerned, Approves or disapproves all requests
for housing submitted by occupational forces
and other agencies in accordance with exist-
ing directives. Keeps constant check to see
that requisitioned houses and other buildings
are properly and efficiently used. Reports
abuses and violations of regulations govern-
ing the requisitioning of furniture. He must
consider himself as protecting the interests
of the German people in this respect and
prevent abuse and misuse of private property.
Reports all violations of the above to the
Land Director and where necessary presents
cases before the Resources Boards.

k) Labor.—Keeps in towch with the Labor

situation throughout the Kreis, by contact’

with the local Arbeitsamt, particularly the
problems involved in obtaining labor for agri-
culture and essential industry. Reports abuses
or violations of directives in the use of
indigenous labor by occupational forces.

1) Liaison and Cooperation.—(1) Maintains
liaison with local: tactical troops and head-
quarters, Post Commanders, Constabulary,
Military Police, CIC, CID, UNRRA, and other
United States and Allied agencies, military
and civilian, billeted or operating in the
Kreis. Maintains liaison with the Liaison and
Security Detachments of adjoining Kreis, and
with Allied agencies, on the boundaries of
Austria, Czechoslovakia and the British,
French, and Russian Zones of Occupation.
Maintains liaison with and assists Functional
Teams of OMGUS and Land Military Govern-
ment and Local Resources Board operating in

15

the Kreis. (2) Cooperates with commanders
of units and agencies in (1) above, assists and
advises them on missions of common interest.
(3) Reports to the nearest Military Police or
Constabulary Unit all crimes, offenses and
serious incidents as defined in USFET Cir-
cular 152, 11 October 1946; report will be
submitted by the fastest means and be con-
firmed by written report or TWX within 24
hours, an additional copy of which will be
sent to regimental or separate battalion level
of the Constabulary or Military Police Unit.
Makes similar reports to Land Military Gov-
ernment Intelligence Officer.

m) Security—(1) Cooperates with and as-
sists the local tactical commander responsible
for security in the Kreis in the preparation of
his security plan. In all dealing with German
officials and police in preparation or in carry-
ing out the security plan acts as liaison
between the tactical commander and the Ger-
man officials and police. (2) Immediately
notifies the appropriate tactical commander
in all cases of actual or impending disorders
or any unusual occurences which might en-
danger the security (such as strikes, sabotage,
breakdown in civil administration, unlawful
assemblies etc.). Also notifies the Land Di-
rector by the fastest available means. (3) Is
responsible for the local security of Military
Government offices and installations. (This
will normally be provided by use of German
Police or German civilian guards.) (4) Is con-
stantly on the alert for subversive activities
among the German population and by foreign
agents. Observes, thoroughly evaluates, and
reports all matters effecting security of the
area. Notifies immediately the appropriate
agency and Land Military Government of any
such information obtained.

n) Intelligence.—(1) The Military Govern-
ment officer anCall members of the detach-
ment serve as a listening post, collecting,
collating, and evaluating all matters of inter-
est to Military Government with particular
attention to matters of political intelligence,
subversive activities and information. effect-
ing. security. This information will be obtain-
ed through personal observation, other
United States Intelligence Agencies, German
officials, and German or Allied agents. Other
United States Intelligence Agencies will be
informed with the least practicable delay in
all matters of interest to them. (2) A Weekly

(Continued on page 25)

--- Page 19 ---
US ZONE MG ACTIVITIES

The 18th US Information Center in the
US Zone was opened 3 April in Bremen.
Pointing out that the information center was
established as an antidote for the intellectual

darkness which settled over Germany during-

the Nazi regime, the Bremen OMG Director
said, “Freedom from ignorance is as essential
to democracy as freedom from physical
oppression.”

Reparations shipments in the advance deliv-
ery category were recently made to Australia
and New Zealand from the Bayerische Mo-
torenwerke plants in Bavaria, and to the Unit-
ed States from the Hensoldt optical instrument
plant at Herborn, Hesse.

Interzonal Travel Permits are valid only for
travel within Germany, and issuance or use of
the passes for travel out of Germany is a vio-
lation of outstanding directives, Public Safety
Branch of OMGUS has warned.

Limit on Employment Offers»

All offers of civilian employment issued to
military personnel are to be valid for 30 days
only after issue, according to an OMGUS an-
nouncement. This information is to be stated
on the face of the offer.

The French Forces in Austria haye request-
ed that all units in the American Zone of Ger-
many be notified that US personnel under
military control can enter the French Zone of
Austria only of a French stamp is affixed to
regular travel orders. This stamp may be
obtained from the French Mission, EUCOM
Hq, Frankfurt; the French Mission, Con-
stabulary Hq, Heidelberg; or the French
Liaison Officer, Hq First Military District, Bad
Toelz.

A uniform system for classifying workers
for food rationing purposes will become
effective 28 April in the US and British
Zones. Adoption of this system will eliminate
differences which now result in variations in
rations provided for persons performing the
same work in the two zones.

The Reichsbahn at Augsburg is cooperating
in the organization of a youth program for
sport, entertainment, and instruction, under

16

supervision of the 285th Military Police, for
children of Reichsbahn personnel, and youth
between the ages of 10 and 18 working for
the railroad system.

Lumber Shipments Ready

The shipment of 125,000 cubic meters of
lumber to Great Britain and the Netherlands
is awaiting transportation. Previous commit-
ments of 80,000 cubic meters to Great Britain
and 20,000 cubic meters to the Netherlands
have been practically fulfilled.

A new discussion group has been organized
in the Karlsruhe US Information Center
chiefly for former prisoners of war who re-
ceived reorientation training in internment
camps in the United States.

Requests placed in boxes installed by the
US Film Exchange in German movie theaters
in the US Sector of Berlin indicated a demand
for revival of many American films, including
“Maytime”’, “Firefly”, “Naughty Marietta”,
“Captain Courageous”, “Great Ziegfeld”,
“Marie Antoinette”, and “Alexander's Ragtime
Band”.

School Texts Received

Reference materials, curricula, and text-
books in geography and health have been
received by Bavarian authorities from publish-
ing houses and individual school systems in
the United States. These are to be used in
furthering curriculum revision and develop-
ment in the German schools.

More than 77,000 cases were heard in Ger-
man courts of the US Zone during January
and February. The total was 9.3 percent more
than the average for the two-month period of
1946. The increase was due to the gradual
elimination of the heavy backlog of cases built
up during the early days of the occupation
when there were few. German courts in
operation.

The first shipment from the Junkers Flug-
zeugbau to the Soviet Union was dispatched
in March, and additional shipments were made
from the Kollis Metallwerke at Reichenbach-
Aalen and the Atlas Werke in Munich.

--- Page 20 ---
Germany’s Food Problem (continued from page 7)

and the pressure on German officials is over-
whelming.

Despite these increased post-war pressures,
the collection machinery has continued to
function remarkably well. Larger percentages
of harvested crops have been delivered in
both zones during the first half of the current
marketing year than a year ago. Collection
procedures require each producer to deliver,
through legal channels at legal prices, his
total production less authorized retentions.
Under collection procedures for livestock pro-
ducts producers’ self-supply is limited to 36 kg
of meat including slaughter fat per capita per
year and one-half liter of milk per day. Farm
consumption of eggs also is restricted in both
zones. All products must be delivered to
licensed dealers at authorized prices.

Caloric Availability Increased

Economic utilization of German-grown food
after production is an important way of in-
creasing the amount of available food for the
non-farm population. A 15 percent increase in
caloric availability was made in 1946/47 over
the previous year. This was accomplished in
three ways: Limitation of human food for live-
stock; restriction of amount farmers can keep
to quantities approximately equal to the heavy
worker category in cities; and increased effi-
ciency in processing of grains, milk, and other
products.

Public Health authorities have consistently
Tecommended a daily food intake of 2,000
calories for the normal consumer as the mini-
mum standard for maintenance of reasonable
health for a limited period of time. For children
under six years of age 100 percent of the
requirements are being met and children from
six to ten years and pregnant and lactating
women are receiving 88 and 95 percent of
their respective requirements. A special feed-
ing program for coal miners provides 100 per-
cent of requirements. But the rest of the
Population, which includes by far the largest
group, is receiving only 73 to 78 percent of
what they should have.

General food rationing was begun in Germany
at the outset of the war with a normal con-
sumer ration of about 2,000 calories daily. In
addition, considerable quantities of unrationed

" food were legally available. By January 1945

‘¥

the amount of food distributed on the ration
had been reduced to a level of 1,620 calories
per day for normal consumers. After January
the centralized rationing program broke down
and foods were rationed largely on a local
basis. At the time of the military collapse
large stores of Wehrmacht food came into the
possession of civilians, as the result of release
of military stocks and large scale pilferage.
Also many individual households had large
stocks of home-processed foods at that time.

Normal Rations Higher

In June 1945, soon after capitulation, the
ration level, throughout the US Zone averaged
approximately 860 calories daily for normal
consumers. By fall centralized rationing
systems had been reestablished in the two
zones, collection mechanisms had been im-
proved, and by September 1945 in the UK Zone
and November in the US Zone the normal
consumer ration had been raised to approxi-
mately 1,500 calories per day. In January 1946
normal consumers in both zones were receiv-
ing 1,550 calories of rationed food daily.

“ The increases to a 1,550 ration level during
this period were directed by MG over the
objections of German food officials who felt
combined indigenous and imported food re-
sources could not support this level for any
extended period. As the result of a drastic
curtailment of shipments in the late winter and
early spring of 1946, it was necessary to reduce
the food rations in the UK Zone in March 1946
to 1,014 calories daily for the normal consumer
and in the US Zone in April to 1,275. From
April through September 1946 rations in the
UK Zone ranged from 1,042 calories to 1,237
calories and in the US Zone from 1,180 to
1,280 calories daily. This was the most critical
period of the occupation and was marked by
rapid deterioration in health. Finally, on
14 October 1946 the harvest permitted an in-
crease in food rations in both zones to 1,550
calories daily for the normal consumer. This
increase was authorized despite low food
stocks, on the basis of strong recommendations
by Public Health authorities. The 1,550 ration
level has been maintained only with extreme
difficulty.

Bread and potatoes constitute 83 percent of
the current ration. These items have furnished
the major part of the diet since the beginning

--- Page 21 ---
of occupation and on the basis of supplies of
indigenous and imported items expected to be
available, it does not appear that a more
balanced ration can be provided in 1947/48.
In both zones during the past year the quality
of the ration was improved materially by the
use of substantial quantities of imported dried
skim milk, fish, and vegetables. It has now
been necessary to cancel further imports of
these relatively expensive items. The principal
deficiencies in the present ration other than
total calories are in protein and calcium.

In an attempt to evaluate total food intake
including off-the-ration foods, special survey
teams have worked in the principal cities of
the two zones since late in 1945. It is im-
possible to draw definite conclusions, but in
general the best estimate of the present
situation is that approximately 200 to 250
calories daily are available to the bulk of the
city population in the two zones in addition
to the ration. A small but important percent-
age of the urban population is able to obtain
very little food in addition to the ration. Poor
health conditions among this percentage of the
population breed poor health conditions for
the whole population. Rations need to be
raised at least to a level providing 1,800
calories daily—and the Military Governments
of the two zones through their food program
hope to attain this figure during the second
half of 1947,

Children’s Growth Unsatisfactory

The rise in caloric intake for the German
population will not come any too soon. A com-
bined Nutrition Committee (British, French,
and US) composed of leading public health
authorities made a survey last December and
found. “German adults are underweight and in
almost every instance, weigths are significantly
lower than a year ago. Although children
under seven have not been markedly affected
by the food shortage, the growth and develop-
ment of those between seven and 14 years is
unsatisfactory ... All the evidence obtained
compels the Committee to conclude that con-
ditions in certain respects are serious. Through-
out the last year, large numbers of Germans
have subsisted on a food consumption that is
inadequate for the maintenance of minimum
nutrition. The longer this situation continues
the greater becomes the risk of nutritional
disaster should supplies of food be interrupted
or ration scales be decreased.”

18

Communications Extended

Limited telephone and telegraph facilities
were opened between the British and US Zones
of Germany and certain countries of the world
on 1 April with service to additional countries
to be made available as soon as agreements
can be negotiated. Telephone calls and tele-
graphic messages from Germany can be
originated by members of the Occupational
Forces, both military and civilian, by non-Ger-
man commercial agents, and by certain licens-
ed German firms and commercial enterprises
concerned with the economic rehabilitation of
Germany. Facilities will be provided to licens-
ed Germans for ordinary business telephone
calls ordinary business telegrams. In addition,
ordinary press telegrams will be permitted to
licensed press agencies.

Business Messages Only

The license, which will be issued to Ger-
mans to originate traffic on the above basis,
specifies that the messages must be of an
entirely business nature, and that no social
contacts can be admitted on the telegraph or
telephone communications. Furthermore, the
business communications must, for the present,
be interely non-transactional.

German firms requiring international tele-
phone or telegraph service will make appli-
cation for admittance to this service through
the Land Economic Ministry which will for-
ward approved applications to the Joint Ex-
port-Import Agency (US/UK) for final approval.
Licenses will only be authorized where the
firm is engaged on important international
business and where the communications are
necessary for the conduct of this business. If
the recommandation is approved, the Reichs-
post will advise the applicant and will issue a
permit license entitling the holder to the use
of the international tele-communications fa-
cilities. Such services will be paid for in
marks.

Incoming Calls Accepted

Telephone calls incoming to Germany from
other European countries with whom agree-
ments have been reached will be connected
to any telephone number in the British-US
Zone and telegraph messages from the same
countries will be delivered to any address in
the British-US Zone.

--- Page 22 ---
Views of Moscow Brighten

The Frankfurter Rundschau took an opti-
mistic view of Moscow: “The Foreign
Ministers of the Great Powers have decided
after 14 days of negotiation in Moscow that
the proposals submitted by the powers on
the German question have much in common.
This conclusion cannot be dismissed as a
mere diplomatic courtesy, on the contrary,
more readiness for mutual understanding has
been shown than could have been expected.”

Das Zeit-Echo (Schwabisch-Hall) found in
the first two weeks of the Moscow Conference
reason “to state that the hopes for a positive
result of the conference are much more
justified than the fears of the pessimists.” It
continued, “In all diplomatic negotiations since
the end of the war the tactic has been used,
especially on the Russian side, to demand the
impossible in order to reach the possible...
However, on all fundamental issues the atti-
tudes of the great powers have been formu-
lated with sufficient elasticity to permit com-
promises.”

The paper concluded, the firmest and most
moderate attitude is that of the United States,

due to the fact that the United States, in least

dependent on the economic and _ political
development of Europe.

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Regensburg)
forcast that the “hour of decision” and of
black despair for Germany is only now
approaching:

“In the course of the Moscow negotiations
the veil was drawn from secret agreements
entered into at Yalta... Weare filled with
anxiety that the German people will be pushed
again into a state of mind that will make
them easy prey for radical demagogy... To
keep a people in starvation in the heart of
Europe wil! be no service to democracy.”

The Coburger Neue Presse carried an im-
passioned plea for unification of Germany:
“A thorough land reform, and honest denazi-
fication, a real destruction of war industries,
a finai end to trusts, a reeducation of our
youth—for a democracy capable of living,
there is only the way of unity... Let us not
speak of the German state... Let us speak

19

simply of the German
indivisible republic, & a
German national assembly, which, elected by
free, direct, and equal votes, may determine
Germany's constitution and government.

Jubilee of Hunger

The Siiddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) com-
mented on the beginning of the 100th Ratior.
Period as the “Jubilee of Hunger”:

“A person of our generation who has
passed his 30th year has had prescribed
for him for no less than 16 years how
many slices of bread he may eat every
day... This simple conclusion, arrived at in
connection with the 100th anniversary of the
Ration Cards of World War II and based on
two periods of Compulsory Food Conservation
from 1915 to 1923 and from 1939 to 1947 (not
counting the years still ahead) illustrates the
German tragedy which always starts with
Hurras and Heils and ends with hunger.”

The editorial ended by placing the guilt
for the hunger citastrophe on the Nazis and
crediting the United States for food imports
of millions of dollars.

The Frankfurter Neue Presse referred to
stacks of letters from readers calling attention
to this “Jubilee.” It said:

“Tt seems necessary to clarify once more
what has taken place in German in the sphere
of nutrition. Fifteen years ago a half pound
of butter cost 80 pfennigs, ten oranges
50 pfennigs, ‘ribs and cabbage’ in a good
restaurant 70 pfennigs... In spite of that
there were many people in Germany who
said, things must change. It cannot go on like
this in our Fatherland. We were in an abyss.
We must impose a rigid militaristic discipline
on our young people, only then would they
become good citizens. We must have the
Ukraine, that is more important than butter.
An important part of the German population
voted for these people and by 1 September
1939 we had made so much progress that
cannon finally took the place of butter. The
second world war had broken out and the
first ration period came in.”

--- Page 23 ---
OMGUS Reference Library (Continued from page 9)

of Nazism and German Militarism. These
books — along with other collections — will
be preserved for the use of historians and
students. No study of Military Government
or of Germany would be complete without
access to the thousands of books published
during the Nazi regime.

From two small rooms originally housing
the Library, the organization has expanded to
fill the 10 large rooms in its present location.
It now has a well-lighted reading room lined
with general reference books, two large stack
rooms, a periodical room containing current
newspapers and magazines, an acquisitions
office, a typing pool, a cataloging department,
a storage room, and two administrative
offices. More space is needed. A thriving,
well-operated library usually doubles its book
collection in about 15 years. In order to
acquire the ACA Order No. 4 collection much
more space will be necessary, in addition to
extra rooms for normal expansion.

Although 75 percent of its books are in the
German language, the Reference Library is
“American.” Its books are cataloged and
classified according to the Library of Con-
gress Classification Schedule, generally used
in the United States today. Unique on the
continent of Europe, itis one of the largest
‘War Department libraries, the first and second
being the War Department Library in the
Pentagon Building and the Army Medical
Library. Its books deal with practically every
phase of human knowledge. No effort is made
to build up a collection of legal works since
the Legal Division has its own special books.
Except in the fields of law and medicine, the
Reference Library has material on every con-
ceivable subject.

Oliver Wendell Holmes once said: “Every
library should try to be complete on some-
thing, if it were only the history of pinheads.”
This organization is trying to acquire as
much material as possible on Germany and
the Germans, books and pamphlets published
by Military Government, and general refer-
ence volumes, including basic books on
Europe and the United States. Requests for
information from OMGUS agencies have in-
dicated exactly what is needed, and the
Library is trying to coordinate its work with
these wishes.

20

The reference service provided by the
Library falls into three general categories:
service in person, by telephone, and by mail.
It is much easier to find information or assist
someone if he comes to the Reading Room
himself and states his needs. In many cases,
however, a person wishes merely to inquire
about the date of some particular event,
whether or not the Library has a certain book,
or whether or not the Library has material on
a specific subject. These questions can be
answered efficiently by telephone. But if the
queries are too complex the librarian may
suggest that the caller make a personal visit.
The third type of request for information is
by mail. Although a prompt answer is sent,
the questions are often not specific enough
to make clear to the librarian just what is
desired.

The Reference Library is open the same
hours as other offices of OMGUS. Books may
be borrowed for a period of seven days and
can be renewed for an additional week pro-
vided no one asks for them in the meantime.
German personnel employed by OMGUS can
borrow books if an American superior assumes
responsibility for the loan. Certain books
cannot be taken out. These books either are
used so much or are so valuable that they
must remain in the Library.

Besides guiding research in many fields,
the Library answers a wide variety of
questions from many sources. Recently a
government agency in the United States asked
for a photograph of Martin Bormann. A pic-
ture finally was located in a book entitled
“Der Deutsche Reichstag,” by a Herr Kienast.
On several occasions persons have requested
copies of various important speeches including
Mr. Byrnes’ address at Stuttgart, various
speeches by Hitler, and similar public state-
ments. The Library finds these in current
newspapers, collections of speeches and docu-
ments, press releases, and other publications.
Countless requests have been received con-
cerning the organization of the German army
and the Nazi party. Many were answered by
using classified documents of which the
Library has a large collection.

The Library staff is pleased when in-
formation supplied is used directly in MG

--- Page 24 ---
work. Not long ago a request was received
for information on the organization of Ger-
man cooperative societies. Recently an
American official wanted to know how to
make several different types of graphs. The
information was used in the preparation of
several important statistical summaries, The
need for texts of international treaties is
frequent. Officials ask for copies of the Young
Plan, the Geneva Convention concerning
treatment of war prisoners, the Weimar
Constitution, the United Nations Charter, and
various Federal laws, This material comes

British View on

One of the most stimulating and encour-
aging signs of Control .Commission life .is
the fact that the great majority of English men
and women working in Germany today, are
attempting to break away from the traditional
isolationism of the Englishman in a foreign
land and are establishing contact with the
people they control.

In Germany, in spite of recurrent criticism
from ill-informed sources, which too often
base their criticism on the erroneous informa-
tion supplied by unsuccessful applicants or
discharged failures of the Control Commission,
there is a healthy and altogether new spirit
of enquiry.

The Control Commission girl with her re-
gular hand of little German boys to whom she
gives her weekly chocolate ration; the officer,
who, of his own initiative inaugurates an
Anglo-German discussion group in the local
school or among his employees; the married
family who so quickly learn the difference
between the servile servant who steals the
rations and the self-respecting cook who is
worth consulting and worthy of trust; all these
are establishing contact, not from sentimen-
tality or “softening’ but because until we
know the Germans “through and through”
they can never be our friends, and must never
be our enemies, again.

Wide credence is at last given to the theory
of the psychologists that the German mind is
diseased, and much brilliant planning is being
made with the object of curing that disease.
But the problem is not only one for planning
to correct. Much good can and is being done
by not standing aloof from the Germans in
their spiritual and physical agony. If we isolate

from various collections of documents and
laws.

The Library has even extended its services
half-way around the world. In February 1947
it received a request from the International
Military Tribunal in the Far East for one
issue of the periodical “Berlin—Rom—Tokio,”
formerly published by the German Foreign
Office. This periodical was to be used in
evidence against the Japanese war criminals,
The Reference Library had but one copy of
the edition, so a microfilm copy was made
and sent by courier to Tokyo.

German Relations

al

ourselves from the Germans and spend all our
evenings and our leisure hours in our own
company, we may never be able to regain
contact again. If on the other hand we leave
our little shells and meet the Germans, not, as
too often we did last year, to commiserate
with them, but to help them face their problem
squarely and to explain the English point of
view, when the increase of consumer goods
next year or the year after brings a less
fevered state to the German mind, the chances
of success of the undoubted experts, who look
farther ahead than this year or next year to a
time when Germany will again arise as a re-
spected and respectable nation, will be
immeasureably increased.

It speaks volumes for the integrity, en-
thusiasm and far-sightedness of a large pro-
portion of the Control Commission that with
little or no encouragement from official sources
or public opinion in England, so much in this
direction is being done.

The above article is reprinted from the
British Zone Review, in which the writer was
identified as “F.E.F.J.”

MG Proclamation No. 4

Military Government Proclamation No. 4,
besides changing the name of Greater Hesse
to Hesse in conformity with usage in the new
Land constitution, clarified the relationship
between Military Government and the German
Land governments.

The proclamation will become effective for
Bremen when that Land adopts a constitution.

--- Page 25 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instructions
are printed for the benefit of our readers. Offi-
cial copies of the quoted circulars, letters, and
directives may be obtained by writing to the
originating headquarters.

ICD Projects Defined

The status of certain direct operational
activities of Information Control for the pur-
pose of military requirements is defined in
OMGUS directive, AG 000.7 (IC), “Supply
Responsibilities for Official US (German-lan-
guage) Publishing and Film Operations,”
27 February.

The directive states that under MGR Title 21,
Information Control conducts certain publish-
ing and film production activities to provide
newspapers, periodicals, and films for distri-
bution throughout the US-occupied areas of
Germany, and that these German-language
editions and versions are for the purpose of
providing the German population with infor-
mation which will influence them to under-
stand and accept the US program of occu-
pation, and of establishing a stable and accept-
able government which may eventually be
brought into the family of peace—loving
nations,

These operations include the publication of
Die Neue Zeitung, a zonal newspaper of
1,500,000 circulation, and Heute, Amerika-
nische Rundschau, and Neuve Auslese, which
are zonal periodicals. Information Control
operations also include the production of Welt
im Film, joint US-British newsreels for occu-
pied Germany, and of various documentary
films.

The principal installations charged with the
production of these materials are located in
Munich under the administrative jurisdiction
of the Information Control Division, OMG Ba-
varia, but serve the entire zone. These are:
Publishing Operations Branch; Newsreel
Section, Film-Theater-Music Branch; and Film
Section, Film-Theater-Music Branch.

Regional OMG Directors are advised that
these Information Control activities are direct
MG operational responsibilities and, for pur-
poses of military requirements, are to be
treated accordingly. The meeting of their
requirements as to services, fuel, and other
supplies, is the responsibility of the OMG in
whose area the needs arise, and is to be effect-

22

ed from supplies and services available to
that command through established military
supply channels.

In another instruction, OMGUS cable
V-16441 of 2 April provides that indigenous
employees of the following activities of In-
formation Control are to be regarded as direct
MG employees for the purpose of the noon
meal, even through not on the MG payroll:
publishing operation in Munich, Bavaria Film
Kunst, radio stations in the four Laender, in-
formation centers in 20 cities, and film ex-
changes in each Land.

“A” Rations for Businessmen

Allied and neutral businessmen officially
permitted to visit the US occupied areas are
authorized to purchase basic scale “A” Post
Exchange rations but this allowance does not
include gift or luxury items, according to
OMGUS cable V-16398 of 1 April.

Scale “A” ration cards are to be issued only
to Allied and neutral businessmen who are in
possession of Military Entry Permits which
specify that the holder is a foreign buyer visit-
ing the US Zone on export business or for
making purchases from the Office of Foreign
Liquidation Commission. Ration cards are to
be marked so as to be valid only during the
time each individual is authorized to be pre-
sent in the zone.

Work Prohibitions Cited

The prohibitions on the use of voluntary and
gratuitous services in governmental work are
cited in OMGUS letter, AG 005 (PO), “Volun-
tary and Gratuitous Services of Civilian Em-
ployees and Service Prior to Appointment,”
1 April 1947. It points out that “no employee
can legally be placed on duty until he receives
a WD Form 50.”

Retention of Non-RA Men

MG field offices are directed by OMGUS
cable V-16272 of 29 March to make reports on
any non-Regular Army enlisted men retained
in their command after 30 April. The reports
are to be made by Regional OMG Headquar-
ters by telephone on or before 2 May to Hq
OMGUS and are to be followed by written
reports, Negative reports also are desired.

--- Page 26 ---
The Hoover Report

Anne O' Hare McCormick, noted columnist,
foreign correspondent, and analyst of inter-
national developments for The New York
Times, described the report made by Her-
bert Hoover on his recent economic survey in
Europe as giving “a colder and clearer idea of
life in Germany” than much of the multitudin-
ous accounts written about the occupied area.
Her column on this topic is reprinted in full:

Although statistics are usually neither elo-
quent nor descriptive, the array of figures Mr.
Hoover presents in his report to the President
gives perhaps the most graphic picture yet
drawn of conditions in Germany. Other report-
ers have tried to tell this dismal story to the
unwilling listeners of the United States. They
have noted, for instance, the striking absence
of able-bodied men on the German scene. Mr.
Hoover merely states that in the American
and British zones (to which his survey is limit-
ed) 6,000,000 men of the most productive age
groups are missing because of war losses and
the detention of prisoners of war in Russia,
France, Britain and Belgium.

Many observers have seen that the fields
are worked almost entirely by women or old
men. They have described women felling trees
in the forests and harnessed to carts on the
roads. Mr. Hoover says that between the ages
of twenty and sixty, women outnumber men
by six or seven millions. Vivid accounts have
been written of the burrowing, anthill life in
skeleton cities. Explorers who have turned
from these swarming graveyards to the whole
and apparently normal villages have found
them almost equally congested with sullen ex-
pellees quartered on sullen natives. Mr. Hoo-
ver reports that despite the losses the popu-
lation in the combined zone has increased by
more than a fourth. When the last German
deportees from the east arrive this year, there
will be 43,000,000 mouths to feed as contrasted
with 34,200,000 in 1939.

Mr. Hoover merely gives the figures. They
have no color. They do not reproduce the
panorama of misery printed on the mind after
a view of the crowded cellars*of Berlin, the
ghostly queues of Hamburg, the reception cen-
ter for the dispossessed Sudentenlanders at
Augsburg, the old woman on the stone piles,

the stations and the undergrouri S.
they have a terrific impact. Although all have
been repeatedly reported, this summary gives
a colder and clearer idea of life in Germany
than any number of impressions, piecemeal
data or the long columns of detailed figures in
Military Government reports.

The purpose of Mr. Hoover's survey was to
explain why the American is taxed to support
Germans and how they can be made self-
supporting. The first part of the report deals
only with the food problem. It is notable in
that the estimate of minimum aid necessary to
keep the population alive until the end of
1948, while exceeding the proposed Con-
gressional appropriations, is less than was an-
ticipated by the military authorities. Several
practical steps—some so obvious as lettingGer-
mans fish in the North Sea—are suggested to
reduce expenditure while increasing food ra-
tions to put the people in physical condition
to earn their own living.

Many Americans ask why they should be
taxed to keep Germans alive. Their ruin is
their own fault, the result not of occupation
policies but of the war they launched upon the
world. Our Allies are also in desperate need,
and we are obliged to help our friends before
we feed our former enemy. Her victims suffer-
ed so much at her hands that Germany is get-
ting the punishment she deserves. To put her
on her feet, moreover, is to put her on the way
to become once more a menace to peace.

These arguments are natural enough. Any-
one who has seen post-war Europe knows that
Germany is not alone in wretchedness. Austria,
Greece, parts of Italy, Poland, Rumania and
Hungary are also areas of famine and deso-
lation. Warsaw, Stalingrad, scores of cities
were more ravaged than Berlin. The Ukraine
is more stripped than any zone in Germany.
But in no other country is ruin so general and
the universal level of life so low.

But that is only part of the answer. The
reason for our preoccupation with Germany is
twofold. During the two years we have stood
guard over the collapsed Reich, we have
learned that a chaotic, unproductive, headless
and starving Germany is also a menace. On
the eve of the Moscow conference, to which

--- Page 27 ---
the Hoover diagnosis is a prelude, few will
disagree that “if Western civilization is to sur-
- vive in Europe it must survive in Germany.”

The second reason is that we are there. It
cost us a lot to get there and it will cost us a
lot to stay—and more to get out—unless we
take measures to enable Germany to pay her
way and do her part in the European recon-
struction. For us the difference between our
hungry ex-enemy and our hungry friends is
that we are the masters of a large part of Ger-
many. The people can do nothing for them-
selves unless we allow them to do it. Weare not
responsible for their ruin, but we are'respons-
ible for the zonal policy which makes it im-
possible for them to subsist on any level. They
are at the mercy of our mistakes. In Germany
three months ago a high officer of American
Military Government said to the writer: “Gen-
eral Eisenhower told these people that we
came as conquerors but not as oppressors. But
confusion is a form of oppression—confusion
of aim, changing orders, shifting personnel,
endless inquisitions and red tape.”

The best reason, as Mr. Hoover says, is that
it's the American flag that now flies over
Frankfurt and Stuttgart, Munich and Berchtes-
gaden, Dachau and Buchenwald. That flag re-
presents the United States to Germany, to
Europe—and above all to ourselves. We can't
let ourselves down.

ee Ok

A sharply divergent view was expressed by
the Louisville Courier-Journal, which said:
“The philosophy which Mr. Hoover expresses
is the greatest single danger to our German
occupation. It is the siren song of expediency.
It tells us that we can cut down on our ex-
penses there, reduce our occupation forces,
and turn the German people loose to rebuild
a peaceful country and a peaceful Europe as
well. The French will never hear of such a
solution, nor will the Russians. None of Ger-
many’'s ravished neighbors will be likely to
agree that the welfare of Europe would be
served by letting the Germans recapture the
industrial dominance of the continent. -

“It is extremely important that the United

States maintains a sensible middle course on ,

German policy. Only on such grounds can we
possibly hope to win some measure of agree-
ment from the other Allied. powers and get on
with the work of writing a treaty of peace.”
* * *
A more friendly attitude was taken by the

24

Hartford (Conn.) Courant, which said: “In for-
mer President Hoover's heart there is no for-
giveness of Germany for the misery she
brought to the whole earth, no ‘condonement
of the enormity of her crimes.’ If his plan of
economic restoration for what he terms the
New Germany seems to suggest that, it is far
from the truth. But with statesmanlike realism
Mr. Hoover knows, and does not fear to say
so, that the economic recovery of Germany is
vital not only to Europe but for ‘a lasting
peace’ in the world.

“The urgency of restoring Germany's pro-
ductive capacity for a peacetime economy
wholly stripped of every war potential be-
comes the more apparent when we realize that
the world everywhere is short of consumer
goods of every kind. In the fight against starv-
ation and rags we must enlist every pro-
ductive force in the world, and that includes
the productive potential of Germany.”

Hotel Requisitioning Restricted

Purchases of hotel furnishings and equip-
ment will be held to a bare minimum in the
future, OMGUS said in answering a request
of the Laenderrat Directorate that such pur-
chases be, discontinued because of their
“material damage to the German civilian
economy." OMGUS pointed out that “existing
procedures require that when property, includ-
ing furniture, which was originally obtained
from German sources becomes excess to military
needs, it be restored to the German economy.

“The Laender authorities should ensure that
derequisitioned hotel furnishings as well as
property of this type obtained from US Army
surpluses be restored by due process wherever
appropriate to former hotel proprietors,” the
statement said.

The Laenderrat request for OMGUS action
complained that the purchases ‘‘amount to @
dismantling of the establishments.” It ex-
plained that “such valuable equipment” cannot
be replaced since high-grade lumber, precious
rugs and carpets may not be obtainablefor years.

“Tourist trade, especially that yielding
foreign exchange, is of considerable impor-
tance to the financial and economic status of
the south German Laender,” the Laenderrat
added. “Dismantling of hotel establishments
would, therefore, noticeably reduce the assets
and increase the liabilities of the German
economy.”

--- Page 28 ---
Duties for L&S Office Defined (continued from page 15)

Intelligence Report as directed in current
orders. will be submitted to the Land Intelli-
gence Officer. An immediate report will be
made of ‘all matters requiring such action.
0) Legal.—(1) When appointed as Summary
Court Officer by the Land Director has the
proper pre-trial investigation and preparation
conducted and promptly tries all cases re-
ferred to him. Forwards all records of trial to
Land Headquarters for review. Any one or
all officers of the Detachment may be des-
ignated as Military Government Court Offi-
cer, Normally the Detachment Commander is
designated as Summary Court Officer and
the Public Safety Officer acts as Prosecutor.
(2) Holds preliminary hearings in appropriate
cases for the purpose of releasing for lack of
evidence, admitting to bail or binding over
to higher courts. (3) Through the Public
Safety Officer or personally observes the
operation to German Courts. Reports to the
Legal Division of Land Headquarters any
cases of violation of directives or of ineffic-
dency. Keeps informed of the number of
untried cases pending before the courts.

A, DUTIES OF THE PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER

The Public Safety Officer acting under the,

direct supervision of the Military Govern-
ment Officer is charged with the following
duties: ‘

(a) Acts as Military Goyernment Summary
Court Officer when so ordered. (b) investi-
gation, preparation, and prosecution of cases
brought before Military Government Courts.
(c) Investigates and reports on Food Collec-
tion and Black Market Activities. (d) Inves-
tigates reports submitted by Civil Censor-
ship Division. (e) Checks the operation and
performance of duties of German. Police
Agencies, German Border Police, and all civil
law enforcement agencies: Acts as liaison
between German Border Police and Security
Troops responsible for border control.
(f) Checks efficiency of fire prevention and
control and operation of Fire Departments.
(g) Establishes liaison with agencies handling
refugees, Displaced Persons, and Civilian In-
ternee Camps. (h) Checks German Pass Offi-
‘ces and issues Military Government Passes.
(i) Issues Hunting and Fishing Licenses to
Allied personnel. (j) Maintains liaison for the
Detachment Commander with all Units

25

charged with:security as indicated in para
3 m (1) above. (k) Acts when so directed in
all matters pertaining to para 3 (m) above.
(m) Acts for and assist the Military Govern-*
ment Officer in all matters pertaining to
Public Safety.

5. DUTIES OF THE SPECIAL BRANCH
OFFICER

The Special Branch Officer, acting under
(m) Acts for and assists the Military Govern-
ment Officer, is charged with the following
duties:

(a) Investigates the political background
of Public Prosecutors, members of Tribunals
and other personnel charged with admi-
nistration and enforcement of the Law for
Liberation. from National Socialism and Mili-
tarism, persons employed by Military Go-
vernment and US Army Installations in po-
sitions of more than ordinary labor, and per-
sons in other fields of activity, particularly
education, information and youth activities,
when such investigations are requested by
the Land Office of Military Government
(MGR 9-860); (b) Observes, evaluates reports
on the activities and attitude of important
and influential persons in the community
(MGR 9-866); (c) Maintains a collection of
Nazi records and documents and organizes
such records and documents in usable form
(MGR 9-820 et.seq.); (d) Cooperates with,
assists and guides Public Prosecutors in the
prosecution of cases and reviews the de-
cisions of Tribunals to insure compliance
with the letter and spirit of the Law for
Liberation (MGR 9-830) and institutes Delin-
quency and Error Reports to Land Offices and
such decisions that do not comply with this
Law; (e) Spot checks German agencies in the
community to insure that they are fulfilling
their responsibilities in the administration
and enforcement of the Law for Liberation
(MGR 9-840 et. seq.); (f) Insures that instances
of criminal violations of the Law for Liber-
ation are being referred to German criminal
courts for investigation, prosecution and pu-
nishment (MGR 9-850 et. seq.); (g) Compiles
and forwards statistical and other reports on
the operation of the Law for Liberation (MGR
9-870 et. seq.); (h) Maintains and operates
Special Branches for the accomplishment of
the functions listed above.

--- Page 29 ---
6. REPORTS

Liaison and Security Offices will carefully
prepare and promptly forward periodic re-
ports, They will not be required to submit
special or routine reports on matters which
are properly a responsibility of Functional
Field Teams.

(A list of required reports will be publish-
ed periodically by Land Headquarters for the
information ‘and guidance of all concerned.)

7. ADMINISTRATION

a) Command.—Command responsibility for
administrative assistance to Liaison and Se-
curity Offices will be charged to units and
provisional units of the Military Government
battalion (regiment) of the Land Office of
Military Government, such command respons-
ibility will be limited to administrative mat-
ters or as ordered by the Land Director.

b) Offices, Quarters, Messes, Clubs.—These
will be adequate, kept at a minimum, digni-
fied, and maintained as befitting the local
representatives of Military Government. The
number of employees will be limited to the
absolute essential within the allotment autho-
rized by the Land Directors. Officers and en-
listed men will be quartered and messed
separately whenever practicable.

c) Duty Officer—At least one officer or
enlisted man will be on duty at the Liaison
and Security Office during duty hours. He
will be informed of the whereabouts of the
other personnel. After office hours, one officer
or enlisted man will be on duty at all times
but may be at quarters or any other local
place that can be reached by telephone.
(Members of Functional Field Teams may be
used as Duty Officer during off-duty hours).

d) Signs and Directory. — All roads and
streets leading to Liaison and Security
Offices will be adequately marked by signs
that are readily distinguishable by day or
night. An office directory will be placed in
the lobby of the main entrance to each Liaison
and Security Office. This directory will in-
clude, in addition to location of sub-office
within the building, the location of the mess,
quarters, garage, and service station for
transients.

e) Provisions for Official Visitors.
Suitable accommodations will be provided for
Functional Field Teams and for other autho-
tized transients; supply them with available
data, and aid them in contacting appropriate

26

German officials. Accommodations to be pro-
vided are office space, clerical help, interpre-
ters, communications, quarters, meals and
necessary supplies and services, and accom-
modations for accompanying indigenous per-
sonnel. (Motor transportation and chauffeurs
will be provided for authorized OMGUS per-
sonnel by Hq OMGUS, or from pools at Land
Headquarters and OMGUS REAR).

Part If — Administrative Units
8. ORGANIZATION
” a) Military Government administrative units
will be organized in each Land in such num-
bers as are required, they will be grouped .
appropriately into organizations by Land
Directors.

b) Each Military Government Administra-
tive unit will consist of an appropriate number
of Liaison and Security Detachment plus the
necessary overhead.

9. MISSION
a) The mission of the Military Government
administrative unit is to provide the ad-
ministrative support for its Liaison and
Security Detachments, and to relieve the-
Detachments of all administrative burdens.
b) The Unit Commander may be delegated

‘additional missions by the Land Director.

10. DUTIES OF UNIT COMMANDER

a) Assign personnel to Liaison and Security
Detachments in accordance with approved
T/O’s make transfers of personnel between
Liaison and Security Detachments as pre-
scribed by Land Directors, and take such
authorized disciplinary action as the situation
requires,

b) Insure that Liaison and Security Detach-
ments are properly supplied with rations,
clothing, individual equipment, Post Exchange
supplies, Special Service Items, POL, solid
fuels, and transportation. Supply of above
will be through the appropriate Post Com-
mander.

c) Procure and assign vehicles within the
current authorization, and insure that all are
properly maintained.

d) Insure that Liaison and Security Detach-
ments have adequate telephone and radio
communications.

e) Insure that all personnel have adequate
recreational facilities.

f) Insure that training programs are pro-
perly carried out.

--- Page 30 ---
g) Insure that all pertinent administrative
regulations are properly carried out.

h) Insure that all personnel maintain a
high standard of dress and deportment.

i) Provide quarters, messing facilities, and
other administrative services to such per-
sonnel as may be attached to the administra-
tive unit.

j) Maintain all personnel records of per-
sonnel assigned to the administrative unit.

k) Insure that all personnel are paid reg-
ularly.

1) Maintain liaison with Post Commanders,
Constabularly, Military Police, CIC, CID, and
para-military organizations and agencies in
the area, to insure that proper relations exist
between Military Government personnel and
those of other organizations in the area.

m) The responsibility for the supply and
furnishing of maintenance facilities to Mili-
tary Government offices is that of the Post
Commander in whose area the office is
located. The Administrative Unit Commander

will insure that Liaison and Security Offices
are properly supplied and maintained.

n) The Unit Commander will not require
the Liaison and Security Offices to render
routine reports on matters that can be re-
ported on by data already on file in unit or
other headquarters. Neither shall Liaison
and Security Offices be required to submit
duplicates of records required to be main-
tained in Liaison and Security Offices (such
as motor vehicle service records, civilian
personnel rosters, etc.) instead, such records
be inspected periodically by the Unit Com-
mander or his representative in the Liaison
and Security Office files. Morning Reports
will not be maintained by Detachments.

11, INSPECTIONS

The Unit Commander will make and cause
to be made such inspections of Liaison and
Security Offices as will insure that the re-
quired standard of their administration and
discipline is maintained. He will initiate

* necessary corrective action when required.

Ruhr Food Crisis Explained

In an article on the food demonstrations in
the western areas of Germany, Editor Eric
Reger of the US ficensed independent Tages-
spiegel in Berlin pointed out that if Germany
were left to herself the people would not
only be hungry but would starve, He re-
minded his readers that England and the
United States are sending food to Germany
paid for by the English and American tax-
payers, even though they had not previously
promised to do so. However, he pointed out,
need and hunger seems to make the German
people forget these things.

“The German people seem to believe that
the western Allies have promised to render
this assistance, and the next conclusion to this
completely erroneous way of thinking is: they
ship less than they have promised,” he ob-
served, adding that in those places where
people don't believe this they are made to
do so through propaganda.

Reger pointed out that not only British but
also German observers ‘refer to the fact that
the distribution and not the amount of food
available is found wanting. He added the remin-
der that this distribution lies in German hands.

“Not without reason are the food conditions
in the American: Zone the best of all of

az

Germany, and that is by no means due only to
the structure of the zone,” contended Reger.

The Siiddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) also
editorializing on the demonstrations in the
Ruhr, said:

“The news from the Ruhr is perturbing and
discloses the degree of misery, hunger and
cold suffered there during a long dreadfully
severe winter ... In numerous cities of that
area, workers have taken up that political
weapon which is customary in the demo-
cracies: they went on strike and displayed
their common misery on the streets and before
the official buildings.”

“The world knows that, after a stricter and
stricter rationing of food and after the ner-
vous strain of a five-year war, a people can-
not get along with 1,550 calories daily if it
wants to work and that experiments with
young, rested, wellfed people cannot prove
the contrary. The world must be almost
astonished that a population, which for weeks
had to get along on 800 calories, could
summon even the strength for a demonstration.
It is an act of desperation, even though it
should come out that political wire-pullers
intended something else than a demonstration
against hunger.”

--- Page 31 ---
Official Instructions (Continued from page 2)
Counterfeit Military Payment Certificates
Confiscation of Credentials of Arrestees. . .

Interim Procedure for Retention of Property Control of Certain

Properties by Information Control Licensees. . . . . 1. s
Disposition of Strategic and Critical Materials Frozen under the
Captured Enemy Material Program. .......4.4-

Local Procurement Procedure. .......

Concurrence List... ......

Assistance by US Army to Foreign Governments in US Area of
Control in Germany and Austria. . ....... eee

Travel Allowances, et. . . . 1... 1 ee ee ee
Unit Publications. . . .
OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Requests .

Processing and Payment of Procurements, and Damage Claims
against the United States Arising in Germany. . . .. .

Distribution of German Copies of Transcript of Proceedings of the
International Military Tribunal. . . . . .

Establishment of Extradition Board. . ..........
Leaves, Passes and Travel in the European Theater .

Absence without Leave. .......

Return to German Agencies of Cultural Materials .
License under MG Laws Nos. 53 and 161 .
Company and Separate Unit Post Offices .
Organization of Legislation Review Board .

Ice — Issues and Sale. . . 1... ..

Letter Implementing. Allied Control | Authority Control KSarie
Law No.49 ...

Financing of Official Entertainment for German Administrative
Officials . . . SoG

Property Accountability in the European Command .

EUCOM Motion Picture Service (16 mm and 35 mm).

Release of Properties Confiscated 1 by Property Control Custody
under MG Law No.52 .

AG 122.1 (AG) ec
1 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 200.2 (IA)
1 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 386 (IC)
1 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 386.3 (ED)
1 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 400.12 (CO)
1 April 1947, OMGUS

Staff Memo No. 18
1 April 1947, OMGUS

Circular No. 6
1 April 1947, EUCOM

Circular No.7
1 April 1947, EUCOM

Circular No.8
1 April 1947, EUCOM

AG 014.1. (SG)
2 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 150 (LD)
2 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 461.01 (LD)
2 April 1947, OMGUS

Gen, Orders No. 29
2 April 1947, OMGUS

Circular No.9
2 April 1947, EUCOM

Circular No. {0
2 April 1947, EUCOM

AG 007 (ED)
3 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 010.6 (FD)
3 April 1947, OMGUS

Circular No. 11
3 April 1947, EUCOM

Gen. Orders No. 30
4 April 1947, OMGUS

Circular No. 12
4 April 1947, EUCOM

AG 010.6 (IA)
5 April 1947, OMGUS

AG 120.1 (CO)
5 April 1947, OMGUS

Circular No. 14
7 April 1947, EUCOM
Circular No, 15
7 April 1947, EUCOM

AG 010.6 (FD)
9 April 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF