--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 98 / 23 JUNE 1947

oe es rence crannies

ION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

LAUTERBACH,
oper
LAHNKREIS

ROTEN BURG

FRIEDBERG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBER BISCH -
OFSHEIM.
HEILBRONN
aa aoe

LEONBER:
WAI BLINGE!
GMUND

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
_ COVER PICTURE

JSOCIAL WORK STUDENTS — Before the
reeked shell of the building which had
“housed their school, this quartet of students
/of social work in Berlin discuss some
problems confronting their profession. An
interesting analysis oi the training problems
ja Germany is published on page 3.

4 (Photo by PRO, OMGUS)

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

| Dr. Margerite T. Boylan, who furnished
the material for Training Social Workers,
recently completed a 60-day study of con-
| tions in Germany for the OMGUS Welfare
Branch, Dr. Boylan is on the School of
Social Work faculty at Fordham University.
‘During the past year she served as an
advisor in establishing a new school of
social work at Milan, Italy.

7 Political Parties was taken from the Civil
Administration Supplement to the Military

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

es

INFORMATION

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 98 23 June 1947

3overnor's Report No. 21. Training Social Workers 3
Books on Germany—International Scene CARE Program Enlarged in Hesse 6
4s the fourth and final article of the series Li Advi c il 7
written by Henry A. Dunlap, Chief Librarian, Parliamentary lvisory Council .
OMGUS Reference Library. Thie series in Books on Germany, Part 4 8
dicated the wide choile of books available :
to MG workers, Milch Sentence is Confirmed 10
| The Regional Governmeat Coordinating Political Parties . At
ge (RGCO), which furnished the material C. L. Adcock Heads US Bizonal Control 12
for The Parliamentary Advisory Council, is dis
MG supervisory and advisory body over British Share in Bizonal Activities 13
fhe Laenderrat with offices in the Villa Powers of Economic Council Set . 14
‘eiizenstein in Stuttgart where the Laender-
it holds its meetings. More War Plants are Allocated 17
Export Program for Bavaria 18
German Reactions . 19
Press and Radio Comment 21
EK Official Instructions 22

The ramifications of the Deutsche and
ener Banks will be described in Issue

; 99 of 30 June, Other leading articles
Will include the role of MG Courts in Ger-
'y and educational opportunities for

an workers. A series, giviag the prin-

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

points of the recently revised MGR
1, will start in me same issue.

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
AINING-

VEIRCROWDED cities, displaced

persons, disillusioned youth, a
disproportionate larger number of
women—these are some of the
complex problems which challenge
the schools of social work in Ger-
many today. Gathering strenght
after the weakening effects of war
and Nazism, these schools are now
flooded with both men and women
applicants who see in social work a
way to contribute to the reconstruc-
tion of their country.

Before State Socialism in Germany
there were 39 schools of social work
-—19 under the jurisdiction of the
state or city, and 20 under voluntary
auspices (7 Catholic, 11 Protestant,
and 2 Interconfessional). In addition,

there was at Berlin a post-graduate
academy—Soziale Paedagogische Aca-
demie—founded in 1930.. Workers
who had completed their — train-
ing at a school of social work and
had several years of experience, were
eligible for admission to this ad-
vanced training school which offered
a two-year course, With the develop-
ment of Nazism, however, this
academy and a number of the con-
fessional schools were closed.

Today, in the US, British, and
French Zones there are 26 schools
open for classes. Nine are under the
jurisdiction of the state or city and
(17. are under voluntary auspices.
Before, the Nazi regime there where
10 schools in the territory ,which is

(left) A student in the Social Workers’ School, Berlin, enjoys the
practical application of her lessons by helping two small children.
(below) Other students learn handicraft which they will teach children
(photos by PRO, OMGUS)

placed in their care.

now under the control of the USSR
and Poland; at the present time only
two—at Leipzig and Magdeburg—
exist. Plans, however, are being made
to open schools in Jena and Pots-
dam.

During Weimar Republic days, re-
presentatives of all the schools of
social work in Germany met every
year under the auspices of the
Prussian Ministry of Social Work in
Berlin, At these meetings, social
problems, policies, and techniques in
social work were considered. The
influence of these conferences is
reflected in the similarity of program
developed by the schools of social
work throughout Germany. Yet there
was sufficient flexibility in the
pattern to allow for adaptation to
local conditions, rural or industrial,

To enter a school of social work
the would-be student must be at least
19 or 20 years of age. In the past the
great majority of schools admitted
only women, This may be explained
in part by the fact that some of these
schools were founded by women's
organizations, For example, the Ca-
tholic Women's Leagues sponsor
three Catholic schools—one in Aachen,
one in Berlin, and one in Munich.
In Stuttgart the school of social work

--- Page 7 ---
was founded and supported by the
Swabian Women's League.

There is, however, an increasing
recognition of the need for trained
male social workers, In Freiburg,
Caritas sponsors a school for women
founded in 1918, and a school for men
opened in 1928. In Ludwigsburg, a
new school was opened recently for
men. Other schools in their reogani-
zation plans are making provision for
the enrollment of men students,

Candidates for admission to a
school must have completed 10 years
of education, four years in elemen-
tary school and six years in a higher
school. In addition, three years of
practical experience is required as a
nurse's aid, a helper in a kinder-
garten, a worker in a day nursery,
or a teacher. Since many of the uni-
versities were damaged by bombs dur-
ing the war, the registration is neces-
sarily limited. As aresult,some of the
schools are receiving applications
from students who have had univer-
sity training as pre-medical students
or in other professions. Because of
the great number of applications
schools must now be more selective
in the choosing of their student body.

Students pay from RM 200 to
RM 250 per year for tuition, De-
nominational schools receive grants
from their respective sponsoring or-
ganizations while the state and muni-
cipal schools are supported largely
by public funds. Formerly, the schools
received scholarship grants from the
state but these have not been
available since the war.

'N ALL schools it takes two years to

produce a trained social worker, but
there are different ways of doing it.
In some schools the students study
theory for a year, put them into
practice for six months, and them
complete their course with a final six
months of theory. In other institu-
tions six months of theory is followed
by four months’ practice, eight
months’ theory, and a final practice
period of three months. The curri-
culum ranges from the study of reli-
gion, psychology, hygiene, and labor
laws to handicraft and singing. The
confessional schools place emphasis
upon religions and character training
so “that the Christian life in faith and
charity may become effective." There
is no opportunity to select subjects

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

according to one’s interests. Courses
in all schools are obligatory for all
students as a preparation for public
examinations,

ACULTY members usually are

three in number who work full time,
plus a number of part-time teachers
from specialized fields including the
Ministry of Health, the Courts, the
Labor Office, and the Youth Bureaus.
Some of them have doctorates in law,
medicine, divinity, economics, and
social science. In general, the school
directors are experienced persons,
devoted to their profession and with
a remarkable spirit of sacrifice and
courage,

Some, however, fear that policies
in force today will create a supply
of trained social workers beyond the
demand. They cite their experience
during the years of the economic
depression in the ‘thirties when
despite the urgent need for social ser-
vice, well trained social workers
could not obtain positions because
of lack of funds to pay salaries. They
also express some misgivings in
regard to obtaining qualified teaching
staffs, and of the possibility of pre-
sent pressure for short term courses,
thus lowering the standards of the
schools, Their policy is to strengthen
the programs of the schools already
in existence.

Several schools have established
short term courses as an emergency
Measure to train persons already
holding social work positions. For
example, the Sozialpaedagogisches In-
stitut, Hamburg, conducts evening
courses for persons employed in so-
cial work organizations. Fifty persons
are enrolled in the classes which are
held once a week for one year. Cour-
ses are offered on such problems. as
housing, care of refugees and expel-
lees, and homeless children.

Land Public Welfare authorities
have assisted the towns by providing
special in-service training programs.
The most ambitious of these was a
30-day in-service training course
conducted by the Ministry of Labor
and Welfare for Hesse in the summer
of 1946. Seventy male welfare wor-
kers participated in this training
course, which consisted of lectures
and study material, mainly on legal
and economic aspects of relief.

Lack of housing—the problem of
most schools in Germany today—is

4

one of the main handicaps to the
schools of social work. Many of the
buildings were destroyed or badly
damaged. Temporary quarters in a
hospital, a child care institution, a
kindergarten, or a vocational school
are now being occupied. Loss of
libraries, furniture, and equipment has
been a serious blow and the shortage
of fuel, food, and clothing during, the
past years has aggravated the situa-
tion. Schools which formerly provided
rooms for resident students now have
no dormitories. In “closed cities”
(towns in which the housing situa-
tion is so acute that persons are
forbidden to move into that area) no
accommodations can be obtained and
students frequently must travel great
distances every day. Yet many
teachers and students seem to feel
that these hardships will give them
more understanding of the poor and
will help them to serve more effec-
tively.

For practice or field work the
students are assigned to Public
Welfare Bureaus of the municipali-
ties; to Health, Youth, Labor Offices,
and the courts; and to the various
agencies and institutions of the two
major religious welfare federations,
Der Deutsche Caritasverband and the
Innere Mission, Hilfswerk der Evan-
gelischen Kirchen. The practice work
usually is under the direction of the
social agency but schools and agen-
cies collaborate in the supervision of
students through their conferences
and reports.

Examinations are almost identical in
all cities. When the two-year course
is completed, students take the state
examination—both written and oral—
and receive a certificate. After one
year's practical experience in social
work, workers are licensed by the
state as welfare nurses for one of the
three chief branches: health, youth
welfare, or family welfare work.

IN ALL these fields the profession

pays very modestly. The beginning
salary of a social worker is about
RM 200 per month minus deductions
for income tax, social insurance, and
retirement fund. Social workers, how-
ever, seem to have accepted this low
salary scale. Some of the more ambi-
tious among them who have a dip-
loma qualifying them to enter a uni-
versity, later go on to obtain a doc-

23 JUNE 1947 :

--- Page 8 ---
tor’s degree, They then may hope for
a position as an official in the state
or municipal welfare departments. A
distinction is made between an offi-
cial and an employee: an official
enjoys life tenure in his position
while employees do not. ‘fhe state
certificate can be withdrawn if the
social worker at any time shows that
he lacks the qualities which are ne-
cessary prerequisites for social work
or if he acts in opposition to state
regulations,

To improve the status of the pro-
fession in general, a German Asso-
ciation of Social Workers was
founded in 1916, and at about the
same time a Catholic and a Protestant
association of social workers were
organized. These associations were
dissolved in 1933. In 1945 a new orga-
nization of social workers was formed
in Berlin and the Soviet Zone as one
of the 18 affiliated groups of a labor
union, Freier Deutscher Gewerk-
schaftsbund, F. G. 14. Verband der
oeffentlichen Betriebe und Verwaltun-
gen, Fachgruppe der Sozialpaedago-
gen. In 1946, the Catholic Social
Workers Association also was reorga-

nized in the British and American
Zones and now has.a membership
of nearly 3,000.

Today the schools are sponsored by
the land or municipal public welfare
bureaus or by one of the two princi-
pal religious groups—the Catholics,
numbering approximately 25,000,000
and the Protestants, numbering about
38,000,000. A few schools are inter-
confessional. Those under religious
auspices are opposed to the taking
over of their work by the state. The
private schools are more flexible and
are able to experiment in the develop-
ment of new programs. The land and
city schools are more or less under
the influence of the dominant party.

IONSIDERING social work in Ger-

many as a whole, MG officials
believe that problems could be seen
in more perspective by social wor-
kers if they could reestablish rela-
tions with international organizations.
Then, once again, they could be in
touch with the progress achieved in
the field of social welfare in other
countries, To that end, it is the re-
commendation of a recent study that

a carefully selected group of social
workers be sent as delegates to attend
the Fourth International. Conference
of Social Work to be held in the
United States in April or May 1948.
Members of MG's Welfare Branch
are also interested in planning for
scholarships and fellowships to be
obtained from US schools for a
period of one year for a limited
number of German social workers,

In Germany itself, assistance is
planned in the restoration of school
buildings, in building up liberaries,
and in providing needed equipment
and supplies, Exchange of knowledge
within Germany will continue asthe
policy of Military Government with
special encouragement to the holding
of conferences in special fields such
as professional training schools, child
welfare, youth, and women's organi-
zations. Through such conferences the
general level of training of schools
of social work may be raised and
professional personnel developed to
undertake a modern program.

Lecture on Social Work problems at the
(photo. by. PRO, OMGUS)

school in Berlin.

--- Page 9 ---
CARE Aid Enlarged in Hesse

PEAKING before a conference of

executives for the CARE program
recently in Wiesbaden, Dr. James
R. Newman, Director of the Office of
Military Government for Hesse, ex-
plained details of a project, sponsored
by Hesse MG personnel, designed to
increase the flow of CARE packages
into the pantries of needy Hessian DP
and German families.

Dr. Newman outlined particulars of
the plan, under which complete case
histories of deserving destitute Hessian
families will be supplied CARE’s New
York office. Thus any American family
or individual desiring to “adopt” a
German family will be able to make a
selection based upon personal con-
sideration of full factual data.

In addition, benefit dances and other
fund-raising parties will be held in
the Hesse MG Club, the proceeds of
which will be used to purchase CARE
packages for distribution within the
land.

In announcing the project, Dr. New-
man praised the CARE and CRALOG
campaigns, stating that “millions of
Germans would have starved if it
were not for the generous help given
through American charities.” Trans-
lating the current Hessian weekly
meat ration of 250 grams into an
American equivalent, Dr. Newman
compared it to the size of a “five cent
hamburger bought at any US roadside
stand before the war.”

German children are going bare-
footed, the MG director went on, not
because they want to, but because
“they just do not have shoes.”

“I am confident,” Dr. Newman said,
“that the Germans of Hesse are doing
all they can to produce the maximum
their land is able to yield, and there-
fore we can now fairly ask the citizens
of America to help all they can. I would
not believe it right, however, to ask
our people to send food unless the
maximum effort is being made by the
Hessians in their own behalf.”

“When an American buys a CARE
package, he is making a real, vital
contribution to the cause of Military
Government. I believe the individual
purchasing of a package by an Ameri-
can for an individual Hessian family

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

is the best basis. It will encourage
correspondence between an American
and Hessian family and, eventually,
a better understanding of mutual pro-
blems and ideas. It will lead to a firm
foundation for the democracy we are
striving so hard to build here in Hesse.”

AM aware,” Dr. Newman continued,

“that the destitution here is no greater
than it is in many of the Allied coun-
tries we liberated, but here in Hesse,
in addition to our immediate humane
problem of feeding the hungry and
clothing the naked, we have the
additional burden of teaching our way
of life.”

Paul C. French, executive director
of CARE, disclosed that “CARE has
during the past year distributed more
than 1,200,000 packages to the Ameri-
can, British, and French Zones and to
all of the Berlin sectors. Our orders
in the United States are increasing
daily and we of CARE are doing all
in our power to make known to the
American people the desperate needs
of war-affected peoples, not only in
Germany, but in 14 other European
countries, I have seen these needs
both now and particularly for the
coming winter and, upon my return
to New York, I shall do all in my
power through the press and radio to

relay what I have seen.”

Soviet Zone Agency

Marshal V. Sokolovsky, Military
Governor of the Soviet Zone of Ger-
many, was quoted in a Soviet News
Office dispatch published in all Soviet-
controlled newspapers as approving
the setting-up of a top German econo-
mics commission for the Soviet Zone.

The SNB dispatch said Marshal So-
kolovsky issued an order “which, as
a basis for cooperation among the
leading German bodies, approves the
agreement concluded on 10 February
1947 between the central administra-
tions for industry, fuel power, trade
and commerce, and the governments
of the Laender and provinces of the
Soviet Occupation Zone." The dis-
patch continued:

“The proposal of the German eco-
nomic authorities have been met by
the establishment of a permanent
economic commission and an indepen-
dent economic branch for an exact
coordination of the work of the Ger-
man economics administrations.

“Members of this commission are
the presidents of the central adminis;
trations for industry, transport, fuel
and power, agriculture, and trade and
supply. Furthermore, the chairman
of the Free German Trade Union
Association and the chairman of the
Mutual Farmer's Aid Organization are
to be members of the commission.”

Personnel Changes

Dwight T. Griswold, who has been
Director of the Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS,
since January, has left to assume his
new post as head of the US Mission
for Aid to Greece. His nomination to
the new post was confirmed unanim-
ously by the US Senate.

Col. Gordon E. Textor has assumed
his duties as Director of the Infor-
mation Control Division, OMGUS,
succeeding Brig. Gen. Robert A. McClure
who has returned to the United States
to head the New York office of the
War Departement’s Civil Affairs Divi-
sion.

Waldemar Thorson has been named
Acting Chief, Control Office, OMGUS.
Col. David L. Robinson, who has been
Control Officer, is now in the United
States,

Lt. Col. George E. Norton, Jr., has
been named Acting Adjutant General,
OMGUS, during the temporary absence
of Lt. Col. G. H. Garde.

Col. Louis G. Gibney has been
Acting Personnel Officer, OMGUS,
during the temporary absence of Col.
James T. Duke.

Lt. Col. Morris O. Edwards served
as Acting Director of the Office of
Military Government for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden during the temporary ab-
sence of Sumner Sewall, the Director.

Maj. Gen. Withers A. Burress was
named Acting Commanding General,
US Ground and Service Forces, Europe,
during the temporary absence of Lt.
Gen. Clarence R. Huebner from EUCOM
Headquarters.

23 JUNE 1947

--- Page 10 ---
PARLIAMENTARY
ADVISORY COUNCIL

Parliamentary Advisory Council

acts as a mirror in which the
members of the Laenderrat can view
the opinions of the voters back home.

The council has no actual. power,. .

but its influence can be great.

The job of the Council is to advise
the Laenderrat and keep it close to
the elected representatives of the
people. After the Landtage became
elective last fall, and the Ministers-
President were elected officials instead
of appointed executives selected by
Military Government, a sort of stale-
mate occured in the enaction of legis-
lation at Stuttgart. The Laenderrat
members, who are the Ministers-Presi-
dent of the three Laender and the
President of the Senate of Land
Bremen, became hesitant to take re-
sponsibility on their shoulders. They
took the position that all legislative
power originated with the Landtage,
and they didn't want to commit them-
selves on any issue without first
consulting their constituents. A period
ensued in Stuttgart during which little
progress was achieved in the legis-
lative field.

To get around this difficulty German
leaders suggested the creation of the
Parliamentary Advisory Council, and
with the approval of Military Govern-
ment it was set up. So far it has met
four times, including one constitutional
meeting.

The Council consists of 24 members,
seven from each of the larger Laender-
Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden, and
Hesse — and three from the smaller
Land Bremen. These men are appointed
by the Landtage of the various Laender
onarepresentative basis—forexample,
Bavaria has three CSU Parliamentary
Council members because the CSU is
the strongest political party in that
state with 57 percent representation
in the Landtag. SPD has two Council
members as a result of its 30 percent
Tepresentation in the Landtag, while
FDP with five percent, and WAV with
seven percent have one Councilman
each,

23 JUNE 1947

By Val Bowman,
Staff Writer

According to the statute under
which it was established the Parlia-
mentary Council shall comment on:

1, All draft laws and decrees to be
submitted to the Laenderrat.

2. All control Council measures pla-
ced before the Laenderrat by the

Regional Government Coordinating
Office.

3. Problems of basic political im-
portance.

Proposals which fall in category 3
must be submitted to the Parliamen-
tary Council by the Secretary-General
of the Laenderrat, after they have been
approved’ by the Directorate. The
Directorate consists of four “pleni-
potentiaries” or permanent represen-
tatives of the ministers-president, a
special representative of each minister-
president from the Land capitals, and
the Secretary-General of the Laenderrat.

No definite date has been set for
Parliamentary Council meetings, but
so far meetings have been held the
day before the monthly meeting date
of the Laenderrat. Each Land has one
vote in the Council, and for decisions
unanimity is required. The Council
has a quorum only if every Land is
tepresented at the meeting.

The Laenderrat is not bound by the
action of the Council — the council
is purely an advisory body — but
only .on a few ‘occasions has the
Laenderrat overruled the PAC. In each
of these instances the overruling was
in the interests of speedy enactment
of legislation which was believed to
require zonal uniformity. One main
difference seen between the two bodies
is a tendency on the part of the
Council to debate an issue at length.
The Laenderrat, mindful of. Military
Government desires and American
ideas of efficiency, frequently acts in
the interests of speed, while the Coun-
cil, imbued with the German love of
debate and circumlocution, would
engage in long discussions before
deciding on it.

So far the Laenderrat has taken the
position that all legislative matters
should be submitted to the PAC for
advice and comment, but not executive
or administrative matters. The ‘Parlia-
mentary Council would like to have
everything submitted to it for comment.

|O DATE the meetings of the Coun-

cil have been harmonius—which
is somewhat remarkable considering
the fact that such bitter political oppo-
nents as Alfred Loritz and Dr. Josef
Mueller represent the same Land.
Apparently the members are making
a strong effort to keep the meetings
on a high level for the sake of the
country. The nearest thing to a row
was the drawn-out debate over the
proposed Compulsory Labor Draft Law.
This proposal was first submitted for
consideration at the meeting of 14 April,
but decision was postponed until the
next Laenderrat meeting, in order to
permit the discussion of the law within
the respective Landtag. At the next
meeting, on 5 May, Bavarian Council
members came instructed by their
Landtag to vote against it. Dr. Koh-
ler, CDU member from Hesse, stated
heatedly that no Land delegation should
come to a meeting with final instruc-
tions from its Landtag, as this would
make it impossible to coordinate its
opinion with those of the other Laen-
der. He raised the question whether
any Land delegation should block
Parliamentary Council action by voting
proposed legislation in advance.

Dr. Dehler of Bavaria submitted that
since the Parliamentary Council was
a bridge between the Laenderrat and
the Laender, the unanimous opinion
of any Landtag should be respected.

The discussion did not result in any
clearcut decision, but discussion and
approval of the Compulsory Labor
Law was effectively blocked.

At the recent June meeting of the
PAC, however, the delegation from
Bremen came forward with the state-
ment that they were prepared to
support the principle behind Bavaria's

(Continued on page 24)

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Part 4

JHE purpose of the first three

bibliographies in this series was to
make known to OMGUS personnel a
small portion of the published ma-
terial on Germany and the occupation
available in the OMGUS Reference
Library. All the publications listed
were mainly concerned with some
aspect of German life or with some
phase of the occupation. It was logical
to assume that personnel of Military
Government should be made aware
of available information on Germany.

To have stopped the series with the
third bibliography would have been
in a sense leaving a task unfinished.
It would have implied that occupation
personnel need only know something
about Germany and its people in
order to perform their work well. It
would have ignored the fact that
there is a world about us, of which
we form a very small part. What
occurs in China, in India, in Palestine,
affects us. The problems of the rest
of the world, while not as close to
us as those of Germany, are just as
important. Being so important they
also require some study.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

By Henry A. Dunlap, Chief Librarian

A limited knowledge of world
affairs can be gained from information
media that do not properly come
within the scope of this bibliography.
The newspaper, the newsmagazine,
and the radio are inexpensive and
readily available sources for in-
formation on current world events.
They supply up-to-the-minute in-
formation in brief, concise form.
Alone, however, they do not give the
teader sufficiently detailed informa-
tion to make him truly well-informed.
To. achieve this, books are needed.

IODAY a veritable flood of books

on all conceivable subjects is
pouring forth from hundreds of pub-
lishers. Countless thousands of these
publications deal with vitally im-
portant world problems. It would be
a physical impossibility for any one
person to collect and read all these
publications. Yet if an individual is
to be even moderately well-informed
on world affairs he must consult a
small percentage of the books of the
day. His great problem is the selection
of a few from the many.

The twentieth century has seen two
World Wars, the League of Nations,
the United Nations, and the atomic
bomb. The old concepts of science,
politics, and diplomacy are daily giv-
ing way to new discoveries, new
theories, new inventions. Keeping
pace with these often startling new
developments is no easy task.

This list of books, “The Inter-
national Scene”, is intended merely
to indicate to the reader the type of
material» available in the OMGUS
Reference Library. It is hoped that it

8

will make personnel more cognizant
of great international problems.

No attempt has been made to set
up special smaller classifications
under the general heading of “The
International Scene,” since most of
the books are either overlapping or
related in content. Some of the sub-
jects covered include the United
Nations, the atomic bomb, peace,
postwar problems, international re-
lations, and World War II. The books
are listed alphabetically by author,
with city of issue, publishing house,
date, and size of each listed in paren-
theses.

Conditions of Peace, by Edward
Hallett Carr (New York, Macmillan,
1944, 282 pages). A sober discussion
of the conditions that led to two
World Wars, and some recommen-
dations to prevent recurrence of past
errors, The book is primarily con-
cerned with British postwar policy,
but points out that both Great Britain
and the United States will face great
but different problems. It is a realistic,
forceful work. The whole outlook of
this book can well be expressed by
quoting the last paragraph: “The old
world is dead. The future lies with
those who can resolutely turn their
back on it and face the new world
with understanding, courage and
imagination.”

Charter of the United Nations and
Statute of the International Court of
Justice, together with interim arrange-
ments (Berkeley, University of Cali-
fornia Press, 1945, 2 vols). “... am
exact facsimile of the volumes which
were officially signed by the delegates”
to the United Nations Conference on

23 JUNE wa

--- Page 12 ---
International Organization at San
Francisco ..." Text is in English,
French, Chinese, Russian, and Spanish.

Agenda for a Postwar World, by
J. B. Condliffe (New York, W. W. Nor-
ton, 1942, 232 pages). This work is an
attempt to state some of the vast
and intricate problems that will have
to be answered in order to establish
and maintain a lasting peace. It is
mainly concerned with economic
matters and recommends that “the
peace must be politically hard, but it
ought to be economically generous.”

On the Threshold of World Order,
by V. M. Dean (New York, Foreign
Policy Association, 1944, 96 pages).
A non-technical, brief discussion of
such problems as the future of the
British Commonwealth, the post-war
German problem, armaments, the
economy of tomorrow, and similar
topics. This pamphlet merely gives
background information to enable the
reader to form his own opinion on
the problems discussed.

Documents on American Foreign
Relations, January 1938—June 1944.
(Boston, World Peace Foundation,
1939—1945, 6 vols). This set is spe-
cifically prepared in order to con-
tribute “to a better popular under-
standing of American foreign re-
lations.” It includes speeches, papers,
statutes, and treaties. A good index
in each volume facilitates the use of
this work.

The United Nations Economic and
Social Council, by H. Finer (Boston,
World Peace Foundation, 1946,
121 pages). The Economic and Social
Council is one of the principal
organs of the United Nations. This
book discusses the position of this
Council in relation to other inter-
national agencies, and its relation to
other U.N. organs.

The Origins and Background of the
Second World War, by C. Grove
Haines and Ross J. S. Hoffman (New
York, Oxford University Press, 1943,
659 pages). Written before World
War II came to an end, this work
seeks to explain World War II by
an analysis of world events since the
first World War and a keen examina-
tion of the politics, economics, re-
ligions, and cultures of our day. An
excellent bibliography is given at the
end of each chapter.

23 JUNE 1947

War and Peace Aims of the United
Nations September 1, 1939—-December
31, 1942, edited by L. W. Holborn
(Boston, World Peace Foundation,
1943, 730 pages). A very inclusive
compilation of statements by the
various nations concerning their war
and peace aims. It includes agree-
ments, treaties, and speeches of re-
sponsible statesmen. The material is
arranged by country, then chrono-
logically. Use of the work is facilitat-
ed by a good index. Appendices
contain speeches and_ statements
made by the various religious de-
nominations and political parties.

International Conciliation (New
York, Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace, 1940—date). This

publication is issued each month and
contains short papers on current
international problems by America’s
greatest scholars, addresses by inter-
nationally known statesmen, treaties,
state papers, and similar documents.
At the end of the year all twelve
issues bound together form an ex-
tremely valuable compilation of im-
portant international papers for the
year.

Problems of Post-war Reconstruction,
edited by Henry P. Jordan (Wash-
ington, D. C., American Council on
Public Affairs, 1942, 292 pages).
A collection of the opinions of
eminent American scholars on the
vital post-war international problems
that now confront the world. The
general topics treated include: In
Quest of Peace, Problems of the Old
World, The Western Hemisphere,
Government and Business, and The
Paradox of Power Politics.

Full Production without War, by
Harold Loeb (Princeton, Princeton
University Press, 1946, 284 pages).
A scholarly and technical study of the
problem “of adjusting production in
the United States so that the needs
of many of the desires of the entire
population” can be met. The author
maintains the thesis that non-pro-
duction “created the climate which
fostered the birth and growth of the
Fascist-Nazi ideology.”

Problems of the Postwar World,
edited by T. C. T. McCormick (New
York, 1945, 526 pages). This is a

9

symposium on post-war problems,
divided into three main parts: Eco-
nomic Policy, Government and So-
ciety, and International Relations.
“The papers in this volume are ad-
dressed to the educated and throught-
ful layman and not to the social
scientist.” Some of the topics covered
are: Income and Employment, Bases
of Economic Foreign Policy, Post-war
Education, American-British Relations,
and The Peoples of Germany.

The New Europe, by Bernard New-
man (New York, Macmillan, 1944,
568 pages). Written before the end of
World War II this is a suggestion for
the organization of post-war Europe.
The plan is based on the principles
of the Atlantic Charter, and after an
introduction entitled “Approach to the
Problem” the author devotes separate
chapters to Poland, Russia, the Baltic
states, Finland, Rumania, Yugoslavia,
Bulgaria, Albania, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, France, Italy, and Germany.
Each chapter treats briefly the hi-
Storical growth of the nation, its
racial elements, geography, and its
position in relation to the rest of
Europe. Of great value are the clear
statements of the problems faced by
these nations at the end of the war.

Look to Frontiers, by R. Peattie
(New York, Harper, 1944, 246 Pages).
The subtitle of this work is: “A Geo-
graphy for the Peace Table.” It is
not so much concerned with politics
nor history, but largely with “the
earth factors,” which includes geo-
politics, regionalism, boundaries, and
related matters. The book is avowedly
written for popular consumption.

United Nations Agreements, edited
by M. B. Schnapper (Washington,
American Council on Public Affairs,
1944, 376 pages). “Primarily a record
of those important agreements,
pledges, and declarations which have
been made by two or more of the
United Nations and associated coun-
tries since the outbreak of the war."
Included are broad general agree-
ments such as the Atlantic Charter;
broad post-war agreements; food and
agriculture agreements, lend-lease
and military service agreements; spe-
cial agreements between the United
States and other. nations; special
arrangements among other nations to

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
which the US was not a party. Also
included is a Country Index and a
Subject Index.

Atomic Energy for Military Pur-
poses; the official report on the de-
velopment of the atomic bomb under
the auspices of the United States
Government, 1940—1945, by H. D.
Smyth (Princeton, Princeton Univer-
sity Press, 1946, 308 pages). An ex-
tremely lucid yet technical de-
scription of the development of the
atomic bomb. It includes the “basic
scientific knowledge on which the
several developments were based’
and the administrative history of the
Atomic Bomb Project.

Charter of the United Nations;
report to the President on the results
of the San Francisco Conference, by
the chairman of the United States
delegation, the Secretary of State,
issued by US Department of State
(Washington, US Government Print-
ing Office, 1945, 266 pages). This is
the story behind the development and
adoption of the U. N. Charter. Each
article of the Charter is explained,
and an appendix gives the text of the
final document, compared. with the
Dumbarton Oaks proposals on oppos-
ing pages.

A Report on the International
Control of Atomic Energy, issued by
US Department of State, Committee
on Atomic Energy (Washington, US
Government Printing Office, 1946,
61 pages). A report by a board of
expert consultants, who made their
recommendations after a thorough
study of the problem. Their purpose
was not to develop a final plan for
international control, but to prepare
“a foundation on which to build.”

Voices of History (New York,
19421945, 4 vols). “The purpose of
this annual is to bring into one con-
venient volume the significant state
papers and the important speeches of
the chief statesmen and officials of
the world. Every speech is reprinted
exactly-as given in the source. Where
possible the source is official.” This
work is arranged chronologically, and
gives an excellent sweeping view of
significant world events for the
period covered.

The Time for De¢ision, by S. Welles
(New York, Harper, 1944, 431 pages).

(Continued on page 24)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Milch Sentence is Confirmed

IHE Deputy Military Governor con-

firmed the sentence of Erhard
Milch to life imprisonment by Mili-
tary Tribunal II at Nuremberg. Milch,
age 55, was field marshal of the Luft-
waffe, 1940—45, also undersecretary
of state and head of the Reich Air
Ministry and inspector general of the
Luftwaffe. .

Milch as indicted on 14 November
1945 of committing war crimes in-
volving the use of slave labor and
misuse of prisoners of war and with
responsibility for medical experi-
ments conducted on human beings.
He was found guilty by Military Tri-
bunal II of crimes involving the use
of slave labor and the misuse of pri-
soners of war but he was acquitted on
charges involving medical experi-
ments,

Following his conviction of 16—17
April, a petition was filed on his be-
half by his attorney, Dr. Friedrich
Bergold, to the Military Governor
asking that the sentence be quashed
as illegal under Articles 60, 63 and 64
of the Geneva Convention of 1929 on
treatment of prisoners of war, or in
the alternative, that the sentence be
reduced because certain findings of
the Tribunal were not supported by
the evidence. The Deputy Military
Governor took action ‘on this petition
pursuant to authority delegated to
him by the Military Governor in Re-
gulation No. 1 under MG Ordinance
No. 7. The Deputy Military Gover-
nor's action denied the petition and
confirmed the sentence of the Tri-
bunal in all respects.

At the time that he forwarded his
petition to the Military Governor, Dr,
Bergold also forwarded two other
petitions on behalf of Milch, one ad-
dressed to the President of the Swiss
Confederation, and the other to the
Supreme Court of the United States.
These two petitions were forwarded
by the Military Governor to the
War Department in Washington with
appropriate recommendations as to
disposition. In both of these petitions,
Milch contends his conviction was
illegal under the Geneva Convention
of 1929,

The Director of the Legal Division,
OMGUS, stated that in his opinion

10

this contention had been resolved
against Milch by the decision of the
US Supreme Court in the case of
“In re Yamashita," decided in February,
1946. That case involved the Com-
manding General of the Fourteenth
Army Group of the Imperial Japanese
Army in the Philippine Islands wha
had been convicted and sentenced to
death by a Military Commission for
having failed in his duty as an Army
Commander to control the operations
of his troops, thereby permitting them
to commit specific atrocities against
the civilian population and prisoners
of war.

HE Supreme Court held that the

Articles of the Geneva Convention
in question related only to substantive
offenses which prisoners of war com-
mit during their imprisonment and
not to offenses which they have com-
mitted prior to their .imprisonment.
The Legal Division Director pointed
out that Milch, likewise, was con-
victed of crimes committed by him
before he became a prisoner of war.

Milch is the first of the major war
criminals to have been convicted by
the Military Tribunals established at
Nuremberg in order to implement
Control Council Law No. 10, which
was enacted by the Control Council
for the purpose of bringing to justice
the major German war leaders who
were not tried by the International
Military Tribunal. There are at pre-
sent four US Military Tribunals con-
ducting trials at Nuremberg, and it is
anticipated that two more Tribunals
will shortly begin to function. It is
contemplated that more than 200
major war leaders will be brought to
trial before these Military Tribunals
at Nuremberg, before the present pro-
gram is completed.

Alcohol Tax Changed

Control Council Law No. 54 amend-
ed Control Council Law No. 27 by
exempting “alcohol contained in
schnaps issued to miners as rations”
from an alcohol tax provided in the
earlier law. Otherwise, the tax law is
unchanged.

23 JUNE 1947

--- Page 14 ---
POLITICAL PARTIES

IHROUGHOUT Germany the va-

rious authorized political parties
are slowly approaching national ex-
istence if not national legal status.
The Social-Democrats, organized cen-
trally with headquarters at Hanover
under the chairmanship of Dr. Kurt
Schumacher, have virtually returned
to their pre-1933 organization, Only
in the Soviet Zone of Occupation is
the party not authorized.

The Communists have always been
strongly organized centrally and their
party machinery has now extended
itself into the international field, send-
ing a special group of fraternal dele-
gates to the 19th National Congress
of the Communist Party of Great Bri-
tain held in London in late February.
Throughout the US Zone there has
been much discussion of possible
amalgamation of the KPD with the
Socialist Unity Party (SED) establi-
shed in Berlin and the Soviet Zone in
April 1946.

The various Christian Democratic
parties (CDU in the British and So-
viet Zones, the larger part of the
French Zone, and in Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden; CSU in Bava-
tia, and the Baden Christian Social
People’s party in South Baden (BCSV)
climaxed a series of conferences and
joint committee meetings with a ga-
thering in mid-March in Berlin. It
should be emphasized, however, that
the CDU-CSU-BCSV committee is a
neo-federalist conference and in no
sense of the word a national party.
Each Land or Zone organization re-
tains complete freedom of action and
the gatherings are meetings of party
leaders rather than the assembling of
delegates elected from various geo-
graphical sub-units of a single natio-
nal party.

OMEWHAT more confusing is the

Picture of that group of parties
labeled variously as “Liberal Democ-
Tatic,” “Free Democratic,” and “De-
mocratic Peoples.” In the past year
conferences have been held at Bad
Pyrmont, Coburg, and Rothenburg,
but none of these can be said to have
been really representative, These par-
ties are not well organized and con-

23 JUNE 1947

ferences are likely to be held without
representation of several Laender (or
even a whole zone); nonetheless, the
Rothenburg gathering in March took
steps to set up a new organization to
be called the German Democratic par-
ty as a sort of over-all holding com-
pany with independent share-holders.
As with the CDU groups, a party of
neo-federalist units is envisaged, each
zonal organization remaining a free
agent; however, the democrats did go
so far as to name two co-leaders for
Germany: Dr. Theodore Heuss (US-
Zone) and Dr. Wilhelm Kuelz (Soviet
Zone).

While the left parties — SPD and
KPD — have already attained orga-
nic unity in Germany, several diffi-
culties have beset the unifiers of the
non-Marxist parties, difficulties which
have led in both parties to confeder-
ation as a solution of their problems.
These difficulties have been both pro-
grammatic and organizational. In the
first category, the parties associated
with the CDU have a considerable
problem in synthesizing their right
and left wings on socio-economic pol-
icy and their federalist and centralist
wings on policies of German govern-
mental structure. While the Democ-
ratic parties are much more centralist-
minded and are troubled less by the
issue than the Christian Democrats,
the question of socio-economic policy
is just as real to them. Even within
the US Zone, the DVP of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden maintains it is the “golden
mean” between CDU reaction and
SPD-KPD Marxism while the LPD in
Hesse holds forth as the last-ditch
defender of free enterprise against
attacks from SPD and CDU alike.

These problems of policy in the
two non-Marxist parties are further
complicated by the organizational
difficulties inherent in the coming
together of independent zone political
groups. In each zone — even in each
Land — various local political leaders
have claims to recognition, claims
which the left is sometimes able to
sublimate in a crusade for socialism,
but claims which become of primary
importance in parties which are

11

more-or-less status quo. These claims
of personal leadership are further
complicated by the very natural ma-
neuvering of the present CDU and
Democratic party top committees to
establish themselves in a favorable
position pending approval of national
political parties.

JHE first efforts to extend the lines

of the developing national parties
into an over-all quasi-representative
German body failed last month when
Dr. Schumacher, the SPD leader, re-
jected suggestions of the CDU that a
four-party committee be set up to dis-
cuss the peace terms and make a Ger-
man contribution to the Moscow con-
ference. In Dr. Schumacher's view
such a committee could be set up
only when the parties were licensed
in all the zones under free democra-
tic conditions; such a view-point may
also indicate the attitude of the SPD
towards participation in future Ger-
man central agencies or a provisional
government,

In this connection the problem of
the participation of German parties
in the apparatus of German govern-
ment is one which appears to be con-
cerning more and more political lead-
ers, especially in the SPD. Some So-
cial-Democrats have expressed the
view that the SPD should withdraw
from all Land cabinets, basing their
attitude on the alleged impossibility
of realizing socialism in a disunited
Germany, the impossibility of accept-
ing responsibility for affairs in Ger-
many today under military occu-
pation ("...total victory is total re-
sponsibility ...,"" and the political un-
desirability of having the SPD saddled
with the collaborationist label when, '
as, and if the occupying powers leave
Germany. The large group, especially
the party bureaucracy, the office-hold-
ers, and the older party leaders,
seem willing to maintain the present
position, at least for the time being.

The status-quo organizations (CDU
and Democratic) are much less affect-
ed by this type of thinking than the
SPD, but any action by the latter
would place a great extra burden on
the non-Marxist parties. Since the
KPD would almost certainly join any
Social-Democratic movement of this
nature, if only to add fuel to the
fire, government would become a pro-
vince of the non-Socialists.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Heads US Bizonal
ee

HE appointment of Clarence L. Ad-

cock as US chairman of the Bi-
zonal Control Office of the newly-
created Bizonal Economic Council
signals the early functioning of that
body in carrying out the US/UK eco-
nomic program.

Formerly Assistant Deputy Military
Governor, until his retirement last
fall From the US Army as a Major
General, Chairman Adcock heads the
office which is second in line of con-
trol of the German bizonal admini-
strative organization. At the top is
the Bipartite Board which meets in
Berlin. It is composed of the British
and American Military Governors or
Deputy Military Governors who re-
view and approve ordinances and de-
cisions of the Economic Council;
issue instructions to the Economic
Council and the Executive Committee;
and exercise over-all control of the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Control

(photo by PRO, OMGUS)

operations of the entire administra-
tive organization.

Operating second in command to
the Bipartite Board is the Control Of-
fice with headquarters in Frankfurt/
Main. This office is headed by one
British and one US chairman and the
members of the several Bipartite func-
tional panels. As the US chairman,
Mr. Adcock represents the Bipartite
Board in the conduct of day-to-day
administrative relations with the Exe-
cutive Committee, and through it,
the Executive Directors. Assisting
him and the British chairman are a
joint secretariat and liaison staff,
forming a channel of communication
between Military Government and the
Economic Council and its subordi-
nate agencies.

Directly under the jurisdiction of
the Control Office are the Bipartite

12

Coal Tops Exports
From US/UK Zones

During the first four months of 1947,
a total of $ 46,236,300 was derived
from the sale of export products in-
cluding coal from the Combined
US/UK Zones of Germany, it was
announced by the Economics Divi-
sion, OMGUS.

Coal exports to France and other
members of the European Coal Organ-
ization accounted for $ 26,310,160,
timber for $6,227,571 and invisible
exports for another $1,818,702. The
balance, $ 11,879,867, represented ex-
port products consisting of consumer
goods and other commodities which
constitute the backbone of the
$ 350,000,000 export program pro-
jected for the two Zones for 1947,
The figure for the month of April,
was $ 13,762,797.

These figures do not include
$ 25,240,940 in export contracts con-
cluded during the four months under
teview. Delivery on these products
were not effected immediately.

Imports by the Combined Area to-
taled $ 185,025,375 between January
and 21 April. Imports of food, seed,
fertilizer, and other commodities vit-
ally needed to prevent disease and
unrest, totaled $ 170,597,675, while
the import of raw materials required
for the export program totaled
$ 14,427,698.

A new high for weekly food im-
ports into the combined UK/US area
was reached during the first week of
June with the arrival of 21 ships at
Bremen, Hamburg, and Emden carry-
ing a total cargo of 141,000 tons of
food from the United States.

Panels, made up of US and British
representatives, for each of the pre-
sent bizonal agencies. These panels
observe and review, and, through the
Control Office, exercise control of the
operation of their respective depart-
ments, The Control Office chairmen,
therefore, have complete administra-
tive reponsibility for the operation of
functional branches of Transport, Fi-
nance, Communications, Food and
Agriculture, Economics, and Civil Ser-
vice. At the same time, the chairmen
act as a connection between the bran-
ches of the Bipartite Control Office
and their couterparts in OMGUS,

23 JUNE 1947

--- Page 16 ---
BRITISH SHARE IN BIZONAL ACTIVITIES

Economic Council and Relations with Governmental Agencies Explained
To Recently Reorganized Zonal Advisory Council of UK-Controlled Area

The establishment of the new bizo-
nal Economic Council and its rela-
tions with the German governmental
agencies in the British Zone were ex-
plained by the British Deputy Mili-
tary Governor in a speech at Ham-
burg 11 June to the Zonal Advisory
Council, which corresponds in the
British Zone to the Laenderrat in the
US Zone. Excerpts from his speech
follow.

HE original Zonal Advisory Coun-

cil was a nominated body. During
the time that it was in existence it
did excellent work. It helped us
greatly by its advice on many impor-
tant subjects, By the influence which
it exerted it undoubtedly succeeded in
getting us to take action on a number
of matters regarding which it would
not have occurred to us to take action
otherwise.

After the Land elections it was
clear that the Zonal Advisory Council
should be reorganized so as to reflect
the division of political opinion as
disclosed by the elections ...

At the time of that last meeting of
the Council, negotiations were already
proceeding with our American allies
for the better economic integration
of the American and British Zones.
These negotiations were then in an
early stage. You will not, I think,
expect me to offer any explanation
or excuse for the fact that it was im-
possible for me to talk about these
negotiations to the Council, The ne-
gotiations, as you now know, have
been successful. A decision has been
taken to concentrate the Bizonal
Agencies at Frankfurt and to sub-
ordinate them to an Economic Coun-
cil which will be representative in
character.

The Zonal Advisory Council itself
has repeatedly emphasized to me the
necessity for subordinating the ad-
ministrative agencies to popular con-
trol. This has now been achieved.
I believe that you will regard the new
arrangement as a very big step for-
ward. The Economic Council itself

23 JUNE 1947

has been given legislative powers
subject to the approval of American
and British Military Government. This
means the transfer to Germans in the
two zones of a far greater measure of
responsibility for the management of
their own affairs.

The creation of this Economic
Council must obviously make a big
difference to the role of the Zonal
Advisory Council, I am very anxious
that the Economic Council should be
truly bizonal in character. Whatever
divisions of opinion may arise in it
— and, of course, there will be
many — I hope that they will not re-
present a division on a zonal basis.
From an economic point of view there
are no longer two zones, but one
area. For this reason I do not want
to see the men who are sent from
the British Zone to act as representa-
tives on the Economic Council, adopt-
ing a parochial and zonal attitude.

THINK that it must follow from

this that matters, which are now
within the competence of the Econo-
mic Council, are no longer suitable
for discussion on a zonal basis and,
therefore, are inappropriate for dis-
cussion in the Zonal Advisory Coun-
cil. I do not want to lay down rigid
rules as to what you may or may not
discuss, but I am bound to tell you
that you will embarrass me if you dis-
cuss questions’ which ought now to be
resolved in the Economic Council. I
will go further and say that under
the new circumstances I shall neces-
sarily be guided on economic matters
by the opinion of the Economic Coun-
cil and not by the opinion of a zonal
body.

Admittedly this means a consi-
derable reduction in your responsibi-
lities. There remains, however, an
important field of activity for you.
We still need guidance on all the
matters which fall outside the econo-
mic field. These are the political ques-
tions and legal questions, many of
which are of great importance.

13

It is possible that with a reduction
in its work the Council may feel that
it does not wish to meet quite as fre-
quently as in the past. I hope that
the interval between its meetings will
not be too long. I hope, too, that you
will keep in being your committees
dealing with political and social sub-
jects...

‘ANY important political subjects

will come up for decision during
the coming month. The Council of
Foreign Ministers is to meet again in
London in November. The future po-
litical structure of Germany will be
a main item on its agenda. Deputies
to the Ministers are to study this pro-
blem meanwhile. We. shall undoubt-
edly need your advice before decid-
ing upon the attitude which we our-
selves adopt. I hope, therefore, that
you will feel that, in spite of the
reduction of your responsibilities due
to the creation of the Economic Coun-
cil, very important work lies ahead
of you. Close co-operation between
you and ourselves is the best method
of ensuring that this work shall be
well done,

Report Corrected

Recent reports appearing in the Ger-
man press to the effect that ap-
proximately 1,000 German and Austrian
refugees would be sent to Brazil
with the assistance of the Interna-
tional Relief Organization or the’
Intergovernmental Committee on Re-
fugees are erroneous, Headquarters
Field Operations, Germany and
Austria, Intergovernmental Committee
on Refugees, ‘announced.

The Committee explained that it
had received a number of letters
from German refugees expelled from
eastern Germany and other eastern
European countries, most of them
requesting assistance in emigration.
The committee emphasized the fact
that it is not concerned with German
or other ex-enemy nationals except
those of Jewish origin or persons
persecuted by the Nazi regime.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
POWERS OF ECONOMIC COUNCIL SET

Proclamation No. 5, imple-
M menting in the US Zone the
agreement between the British and
US Military Governments for the
establishment of a bizonal Economic
Council, has attached Appendix B re-
lating to production, allocation, and
distribution of goods and raw materials
in the Combined US/UK Zones.

In the US Zone, Appendix B is
designated as MG Ordinance No. 14.
This ordinance is designed to give the
present bizonal Executive Committee
for Economics at Minden certain eco-
nomic powers in the interim period
until the new Economic Council is
established and functioning. This ordi-
nance supersedes OMGUS letter
AG 001, “Ordinance Relating to Pro-
duction, Allocation, and Distribution
of Goods. and Raw Materials,”
19 May 1947.

The text of Proclamation No. 5 and
Appendix A were printed in Issue
No. 96 of the Weekly Information
Bulletin of 9 June 1947. It also has
been published in a “Special Report
of the Military Governor," dated
1 June 1947. This report, giving both
the English and German texts, was
titled “Documents on Bizonal Econo-
mic Organization”, Likewise, these
texts along with that for Appendix B
were issued in OMGUS letter AG 010.6
(LD), “Military Government Procla-
mation No. 5 Economic Council,”
9 June 1947.

Appendix B details the powers and
scope of the Economic Council,
Though lengthy and highly technical,
it is published as follows for the in-
formation of all MG and occupational
personnel,

Section 1

(1) The Executive Committee for Economics
(E.C.E.) is authorized to establish general
policies, to be announced in the form of
decisions, governing the production, allocation,
and distribution of goods and raw materials
which must be executed in the several
Laender under implementing regulations issued
promptly by appropriate Laender authorities,

(2) It is further empowered with such super-
vision of the production, allocation, and dis-
tribution of goods and raw materials as may
be necessary to determine and to insure that
its general policies are being implemented in
the several Laender. Within this law, exist-
ing laws, and such other laws as may be
enacted, it may issue any executive orders
which appear necessary to define and to

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

clarify its general policy decisions. In addi-
tion thereto, it is empowered to allocate
directly, by executive orders, such scarce-
basic commodities as may be determined by
the Committee to specific industrial purposes
and among the several Laender. Likewise, it
is empowered to require, by executive
order, the distribution of goods and raw
materials as may be necessary to execute its
policies, which will include the determination
of goods in sufficient supply to permit ration-
ing and the establishment of rationing
standards. It may also issue such executive
orders as may be necessary to govern the
seizure of goods and raw materials within
the several Laender which are not being
utilized under the policies which it has
established.

Section 2

The E.C.E. is empowered, so far as it deems
it necessary for the control and regulation
of production, allocation, and distribution of
goods and raw materials, to issue executive
orders regarding the recording of business
transactions, and in particular regarding book-
keeping.

Section 3

The executive orders referred to in Sec-
tions 1 (2) and 2 shall be issued under, and
pursuant to, the general policy decisions re-
ferred to in Section 1 (1). Like the general
policy decisions, such executive orders shall
be directed to the respective Laender, except
in the case of the allocation power provided
by the third sentence of Section 1 (2), under
which such orders (including in particular
cases orders allocating the end product to
assure the carrying-out of the intent of the
original allocation) may be directed to per-
sons and enterprises. All general policy de-
cisions, and those executive orders directed
to the Laender, shall. become binding upon
and enforceable against persons generally only
upon implementation by the Laender, as
provided in Section 1 (1), and in accordance
with such implementation. Executive orders
directed to persons and enterprises require
no implementation by the Laender in order
to become effective.

Section 4

(1) The E.C.E, may, with respect to specific
branches of trade and industry, delegate its
powers under Sections 1 (2) and 2 to its
Chairman. .

(2) The Chairman of the E.C.E. shall im-
mediately notify the members of the E.C.E.
of any executive orders issued by him.

Section 5

‘Where the special conditions of a Land or
any part thereof render it necessary, the
Supreme Land Authority may, in agreement
with the E.C.E., or, if the latter has availed
itself of the possibility of delegation under
Section 4 (i), in agreement with the Chair-
man of the E.C.E., issue orders of general
application within the scope of this Ordinance
for either the whole Land or part thereof.
The Supreme Land Authority may delegate
such power to a superior Land Authority
having jurisdiction over the whole territory of
the Land.

Section 6

The provisions of the Verordnung uber die
Wirkungen der Beschlagnahme zur Regelung
des .Warenverkehrs vom 4. Marz 1940 (RGBI. I,
S. 551), shall apply mutatis mutandis to
seizures in virtue of this Ordinance.

14

Section 7
Before issuing executive orders, the Chair-
man of the E.C.E. shall consult whenever
practicable with the committees attached to
the Executive Agency for Economics in the
American and British Zones of Control (Ver-
waltungsamt).

Section 8

(1) Publication in the Mitteilungsblatt des
Verwaltungsamts shall be sufficient for the
promulgation of orders containing a delegation
of powers to the Chairman of the E.C.E.
(Section 4) or the revocation of such powers.
Orders containing a delegation of powers to
a superior Land Authority (Section 5, sen-
tence 2) or the revocation of such powers
shall be promulgated in accotdance with the
provisions of the law of the Land in question.

(2) Orders containing delegation of powers
shall become effective one week after pro-
mulgation; those containing a revocation
thereof, on the day following the promulga-
tion. The order may provide otherwise.

Section 9

(1) Publication in the Mitteilungsblatt des
Verwaltungsamts shall be sufficient for the
promulgation of general policy decisions, and
executive orders of the E.C.E. or its Chair-
man; such decisions and orders shall become
effective one week after their promulgation
unless otherwise provided.

(2) Orders of general application issued by
the Land authorities under Section 5 shall
be promulgated in accordance with the pro-
visions of the law of the Land.

Section 10

(1) The service of orders directed to per-
sons or enterprises is governed mutatis mu-
tandis by the provisions of the Zivilprocess-
ordnung concerning the Service of documents
ex officio (Zustellung von Amts wegen) with
the exception of Sections 189, 203 to 207, 210a
and 212a.

(2) Service may also be effected by re-
gistered letter.

Section 11

(1) All general policy decisions, executive
orders, other orders and implementing regula-
tions under this Ordinance shall state the
duration of their validity. They shall cease
to be valid, in any event, not later than
3 years after their coming into force.

(2) The period of validity may, however, .
be extented for three years at the most on
each extension.

Section 12

(1) The Verwaltungsamt and the Land author:
ities referred to in Section 5 are agencies
entitled to information within the meaning of
the Verordnung dber Auskunftspflicht voi
13, Juli 1923 (RGBI. I, S. 723).

(2) They may order the personal appearanca
of a person liable to give information and
may require commodities or other objects, in
particular samples and specimens, to be for-
warded or submitted to them or to their
authorized agents,.and for containers to bé
opened for inspection. Further, they or their
authorized agents may demand from any perf:
son information as to economic data as well
as the production of books, vouchers .of
other documents. Qn ordering such measur fF
the Verwaltungsamt shall immediately notif
the Supreme Land Authority.

v3
‘

23 JUNE 1947)

--- Page 18 ---
(3) Any person who willfully infringes the
obligations under subsection (2) shall be liable
to imprisonment not exceeding one year and
a fine not exceeding RM 20,000, or to one
of those penalties; any person who negli-
gently infringes these obligations shall be
liable to a fine not exceeding RM 10,000.

(4) In addition to the penalty the forfeiture
of the commodities which have been con-
cealed may be ordered; Section 14 shall apply
mutatis mutandis.

(5) Further, Sections 16, 19 to 35 shall apply
mutatis mutandis.

Section 13

(1), Unless other provisions impose a
heavier penalty, imprisonment not exceeding
five years and a fine not exceeding
RM 100,000 or the threefold amount of the
profit obtained by the offense or of the
value of the objects in respect of which the
offense has been committed or one of those
penalties shall be imposed on any person
who

(i) violates any order or implementing re-
gulation issued by a Land Authority under
this Ordinance or any executive order issued
by the E.C.E. or its Chairman which is bind-
ing upon him under Section 3, provided that
such order or regulation contains an express
reference to the penal provisions of this
Ordinance, .

(ii) makes or utilizes false or incomplete
statements ‘of facts in order to obtain
fraudulently either for himself or for another
person any permission, grant, binding pro-
mise or other certificate issued in virtue of
this Ordinance.

(2) An attempt shall be punishable.

(3) Where the infringement is due to negli-
gence the imprisonment shall not exceed one
year.

Section 14

(1) In the case of Section 13 the objects
in respect of which the offense has been
committed, may, in addition to the penalty,
be forfeited in favor of the Land, even
where they do not belong to the offender or
an accessory.

(2) If the accused is not the owner, for-
feiture shall not be ordered if the owner
neither knew or ought to have known of the
infringement nor derived. any benefit there-
from.

(3) If forfeiture of the objects referred to in
subsection (1) cannot be effected or may not
be ordered under subsection (2), forfeiture of
a sum of money equal to the value of the
objects may be ordered (substituted for-
feiture). Where it is not certain whether for-
feiture will be practicable the Court may order
substituted forfeiture in the event of for-
feiture being impracticable. Substituted for-
feiture may be subsequently prescribed by
an order of the Court (Beschluss).

(4) In respect of third party rights com-
pensation is to be paid up to the amount
of the value or the proceeds of the forfeited
objects, unless the thicd party knew or
ought to have known of the infringement or
derived a benefit therefrom. In ascertaining
the extent to which a right was covered by
the value or the proceeds of the forfeited
objects, prior rights must be taken into
account even if the conditions laid down for
Compensation in the first sentence are not
fulfilled. A. claim shall become final, The
claim may be brought before the ordinary
courts,

(5) If a person other than the accused
asserts rights in objects liable to forfeiture
or if there are facts pointing to the existence
of such rights, the person concerned shall be

23 JUNE 1947

given the opportunity of proving that the
conditions under which forfeiture may be
ordered’ do not exist or that he has rights
in the objects liable to forfeiture. Proof may
be adduced until forfeiture is ordered. If
proof is adduced only after the dicision
ordering forfeiture, the Court may set aside
or restrict the forfeiture.

(6) Where it is not possible to prosecute
or convict a specific person, forfeiture may,
at the request of the Staatsanwaltschaft, be
separately ordered by an order (Beschluss).
Such an order is subject to the appellate
remedy of “‘sofortige Beschwerde”,

(7) On the decision becoming final the
ownership in the forfeited objects passes to
the Land, other rights therein becoming ex-
tinguished.

(8) In the event of a right being acquired
after the decision has become final, the pro-
visions of the Civil Code in favor of persons
who claim under persons having no title shall
apply.

Section 15

(1) The Authority (Section 38) may order
the realization of objects liable to forfeiture
if there is a risk of the objects deteriorating
or perishing before the decision regarding
forfeiture can be made, The same tule shall
apply where an early realization of the ob-
jects is necessary in order to satisfy an
urgent demand of the economic situation
or of consumers and no excessive damage
will be caused thereby to the owner. The
proceeds shall be substituted for the objects.

(2) Where the objects liable to forfeiture
have been seized under the provisions of the
Strafprozessordnung / Strafrechtspflegeordnung,
their realization may only be ordered with
the consent of the Staatsanwaltschaft.

Section 16

In cases under Sections 12, 13 and 14 the
provisions of Articles 416 and 417 of the
Reichsabgabeordnung shall apply mutatis mu-
tandis with respect to fines and forfeitures.

Section 17

(1) If a person has committed an offense
punishable under Section 13 knowlingly and
recklessly from grossly selfish motives, the
Court may, for a period of not less than
one. year and not more than five years, in
addition to the penalty, prohibit, entirely or
partially, such person from engaging in activ-
ities or menaging an enterprise in the field
in which the offense was committed, or sub-
ject his doing so to the fulfillment of con-
ditions. In the event of the accused being
entirely prohibited from managing an enter-
prise, the Court may order that the enter-
prise be carried on by a custodian. The
Authority (Section 38) shall appoint the
custodian and shall regulate his functions and
powers. :

(2) Section 420, subsections 3 and 4 of the
Strafgesetzbuch shall apply mutatis mutandis.

(3) In cases under subsection (1) the Court
may, in addition to the penalty, order the
permanent closing down or the permanent or
temporary restriction of the business of the
accused .or may make its continuation de-
pendent on the fulfillment of conditions. If
the business is owned by several persons the
closing down or restriction may be ordered
only if the grounds set out in subsection (1)
obtain in the case of all managing owners.
The fact that one of the managing owners
is not guilty within the meaning of subsec-
tion (1) does not preclude the making of the
erder if the person in question is married to
a guilty managing joint owner.

15

(4) The provisions of subsection (3) shall
apply mutatis mutandis to Geselischaften mit
beschrénkter Haftung, with this Proviso that
the shareholders who are also managers (Ge-
schaftsfihrer) shall be deemed managing
owners,

(5) The closing down of the business has
the effect of prohibiting the guilty person
from engaging in any activity the aim of
which is the continuation of the business
either by himself or through a third party
or the sale of the business as a whole. The
provisions of the civil law in favor of per-
sons claiming under persons with no title
shall apply mutatis mutandis, The Authority
(Section 38) shall have power to give instruc-
tions regarding the winding-up of the business,
in particular to impose conditions or to
appoint a liquidator and regulate his functions
and powers.

(6) Notwithstanding any contractual pro-
vision to the contrary, where a business has
been closed down, contracts of service may
be terminated by giving the notice required
by law or the collectve agreement; leases,
by giving the notice required by law. The
same rule applies where restrictions affecting
the business have been imposed, insofar as
the termination of the contract by notice is
necessary for the canrying-out thereof.

(7) Objections by the guilty person to
measures taken for the enforcement of the
closing down or restriction of the business
shall be decided by the Court which ordered
the closing down or restriction of the
business.

(8) Measures under subsection (1) and sub:
section (3) may be ordered singly or
cumulatively. The convicted person bears the
costs of carrying-out such measures,

Section 18

(1) Any person who, directly or indirectly
through another person, transacts business or
engages in any activity or manages any
enterprise contrary to a prohibition under
Section 17, shall be liable to imprisonment
not exceeding two years and a fine not ex-
ceeding RM 100,000 or to either of these |
penalties.

(2) The same penalty may be imposed on
any person who transacts business with or
on behalf of any such person, with the know-
ledge that this person is prohibited from any
business activity or from managing an enter-
prise or that the business has been closed
down,

(3) In addition to the penalty the Court
may order the forfeiture of the objects to
which the prohibited enterprise of the pro-
hibited activiy relates as well as the objects
and installations intended or used for the
continuation of the business or activity, pro-
vided that they belong to the offender or an
accessory. The provisions of Sections 14, sub-
sections (3) to (8) and Section 15 shall apply
mutatis mutandis.

Section 19

(1) The Authority (Section 38) may be
joined in the criminal proceedings as ad-
ditional complainant (Nebenklager).

(2) The sentence and other decisons termin-
ating the proceedings shall in all cases be
served on the Authority. The period of limit-
ation for lodging an appeal shall only begin
to run from such service.

Section 20

(i) Where an offense punishable under
Section 12 or 13 has been committed in the
conduct of an enterprise, the Authority
(Section 38) may impose on the proprietor

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
or manager thereof an administrative ‘fine
(Ordnungsstrafe) not exceeding the fines of
RM 20,000 and RM 10,000 mentioned respect-
ively in Section 12 and not exceeding the
fine of RM 100,000 mentioned in Section 13,
or, if the enterprise is carried on by a
juristic person, on such juristic person, unless
the proprietor or manager of the enterprise
or the legal representative of the juristic per-
son proves that he has excercised requisite
care in business to prevent such an offense.

(2) The accused shall be entitled to be
heard before the fine is imposed.

Section 21

If in the case of an offense punishable under
Section 12 or 13 there is no public interest
in obtaining the decision of a Court, the
Authority (Section 38) may impose upon’ the
accused in each case an administrative fine
within the limits of Section 20, The accused
shall be entitled to be’ heard before the fine
is imposed.

Section 22

(1) Any information with espect to
offenses under the penal provisions of this
Ordinance received by the Staatsanwaltschaft
or any other authority shall be forwarded to
the Authority having jurisdiction under
Section 38.

(2) Unless such Authority passes the matter
over to the Staatsanwaltschaft, having regard
to. the existence of a public interest in a
judicial decision, it shall investigate the facts.
Before imposing an administrative fine the
Authority (Section 38) shall communicate the
result of its investigations to the Staats-
anwaltschaft, which shall decide finally
whether it will undertake a prosecution. The
same procedure shall apply where the
Authority decides not* to’ impose an ad-
ministrative fine.

(3) So long as the Staatsanwaltschaft has
not undertaken the prosecution, the Author-
ity (Section 38) may seize objects liable to
forfeiture if there is a risk that the forfeiture
may otherwise be frustrated.

Section 23

(1) A person on whom an administrative
fine has been imposed may, within one week
of notification theréof, apply in writing or
orally ad protocellum to the Authority which
issued the order for an adjudication by the
court. The period of limitation will cease to
run upon the receipt of an application by
the Court.

(2) The application shall forthwith be for-
warded to the Amtsgericht or, where the
fine exceeds RM 10,000, to the Strafkammer of
the Landgericht for adjudication. Unless the
application is received by the Court the
Authority may rescind the order imposing
the fine and either dispense with punish-
ment altogether or make a new order. The
applicant shall be informed.

(3) Where the application is forwarded to
the Court for adjudication, the Authority
which imposed the fine shall submit its ob-
servations thereon,

Section 24

(1) The provisions of the Strafprozess-
ordnung | Strafrechtspflegeordnung —_ regarding
the procedure before the Beschwerdegericht
shall apply mutatis mutandis to the pro-
ceedings before the Court. The Staatsanwalt-
schaft shall take no part in the proceedings.
The decision of the Court is final, The
order imposing the administrative fine may
not be modified to the prejudice of the
applicant.

WEEKLY INFORMATION, BULLETIN

(2) Where the order imposing an ad-
ministrative fine has become final, no
further proceedings under this ordinance may
be instituted in respect of the same offense.

Section 25

(1) In cases under Sections 20 and 21 the
Authority (Section 38) may, in addition to
the administrative fine, order a forfeiture.
Section 14, subsections (2) to (8) shall mutatis
mutandis. The Staatsanwaltschaft shall take
no part in the proceedings.

(2) The provisions regarding the application
for adjudication by the Court (Sections 23
and 24) shall apply mutatis mutandis. The
Amtsgericht shall decide the application in
all cases.

(3 Section 15 shall apply.

Section 26

(1) The Authority (Section 38) may, even
before the imposition of a penalty, order the
measures provided for in Section 17 where
there is a strong suspicion that the provi-
sions of Section 17, subsection (1) are ap-
plicable to the accused. Section 17 shall apply
mutatis mutandis.

(2) The Authority shall communicate the
result of its investigations to the Staatsanwalt-
schaft with dispatch. If the Staatsanwalt-
schaft declines to undertake the prosecution
or does not, within one month after the
order under Section 17 has been served on
the accused, declare that it undertakes the
prosecution, the measures so far taken shall
be rescinded forthwith.

Section 27

The Court or the Authority (Section 38) may
order the publication at the expense of the
person concerned of the sentence as well as
of any order made. under Section 17, The
manner of the publication and the time within
which it should be effected, shall be fixed
in the dicision of the Court or in the order
imposing the administrative fine.

Section 28

When an administrative fire imposed under
Section 20 or 21 cannot be recovered, the
Court having jurisdiction under Section 23,
subsection 2 shall, at the request of the
Authority (Section 38), fix as a substituted
penalty of confinement a term of detention
(Haftstrafe) appropriale to the guilt of the
offender, but not exceeding six weeks, The
person concerned shall be entitled to be
heard before the decision is made. The de-
cision is subject to the appellate remedy of
“sofortige Beschwerde’’.

Section 29

The order imposing an administrative fine
and the decision regarding forfeiture shall set
forth the reasons therefor. The offense, the
provisions infringed, the evidence and the
legal remedies shall be indicated therein,

Section 30

(1) The order imposing an administrative
fine shall be served on the person fined.

(2) Service is governed mutatis mutandis
by the provisions of the Zivilprozessordnung
regarding service ex officio (Zustellung von
Amts wegen) with the exception of Section 189,
203 to 207, 210a and 212a. If service in the
prescribed manner is not practicable it shall
be deemed to have been effected if that part
of the order which contains the decision
imposing the administrative fine has been
published in a newspaper to be determined in

16

implementing regulations issued under this
Ordinance and if two weeks have lapsed
since publication. \

Section 31

The provisions of the Strafprozessordnung/
Strafrechtspflegeordnung shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the computation of the time-
limits and the restoration of rights in the
case of elapsed timelimits.

Section 32

(1) If an accused person admits an infringe-
ment, such admission may be recorded in a
minute setting out the essential circumstances
of the offense and the relevant penal pro-
visions. The accused may submit to an ad-
ministrative fine to be imposed simultane-
ously with such recording and to the for-
feiture of objects in respect of which the
offense has been committed, The submission
has the same effect as an order imposing an
administrative fine which has become final.

(2) Section 22, para. 2, 2nd sentence, and
Section 24, para, 2, shall apply mutatis
mutandis,

Section 33

(1) The execution of an order imposing
an administrative fine is governed by the
provisions of the Land law applicable.

(2) The Authority, which issued the order
imposing the administrative fine, has juris-
diction to allow payment by installments or
to allow time for payment. Installment shall
in the first place be applied to the fine.

(3) Execution may be levied against the
estate of a deceased person only if the order
imposing the fine had become final during
the life time of the person fined.

Section 34

The costs of the proceedings regarding ad-
ministrative fines are to be charged to the
person fined. If several persons have been
fined on account of the same offense they are
jointly and severally liable for the expenses;
this does not apply to expenses incurred in
levying execution.

Section 35

(1) The fee for each order imposing an ad-
ministrative fine shall be 5%/e of the amount
of the fine imposed and of the value of the
forfeited objects, but in no case less than
RM 5. In respect of ani unsuccessful applica-
tion for adjudication by the Court, one-half
of te above fee shall be charged; the fee shall
be reduced if the application succeeds in
part,

(2) The following will be charged as ex-
penses:—

1. Fees for telegrams and long-distance tele-
phone calls;

2. Costs of service of documents and public
notifications;

3. Allowances paid to widnesses and ex-
ports;

4, Tiaveling expenses of officials in respect
of duties away from their office;

5. Disbursements of other authorities;

6. Costs of preservation of forfeited objects
and the transport of persons or. objects.

(3) The costs of executing an order impos-
ing an administrative fine shall be collected
in accordance with the provisions of the Land
Law; the costs of executing a substituted
penalty of confinement shall be governed by.
the provisions regarding the execution of
penalties of confinement.

23 JUNE 1947

--- Page 20 ---
Section 36

(1) So far as decisions under: this Ordinance
are to be made by the Amtsgericht, ‘the Amts-
gericht at the seat of the Landgericht shall
have jurisdiction ratione loci.

(2) The Land Minister of Justice may, in
agreement with the Minister for Economics,
make different rules as to the jurisldiction of
the Amtsgericht to meet local requirements;
he may in particular order that one Amts-
gericht shall have jurisdiction ratione loci
in respect of several Landgericht districts.
Likewise he may confer on the Strafkammer
of one Landgericht jurisdiction over several
Landgericht districts in matters which under
this Ordinance are to be decided by the Straf-
kammer of the Lendgericht.

Section 37

Subject to the provisions of Section 3, the
E.C.E. may issue administrative regulations-
necessary for the purpose of discharging its
responsibilities under this Ordinance,

Section 38

The Supreme Land Authority determines’ the
Authority of the Economic: Administration
having jurisdiction under Sections 15, 17, 19
to 22 and 23 to 28,

Section 39

(1) In the absence of action by the E.C.E.,
the Supreme Land Authority is authorized, up
to 3ist March 1948, to issue Orders of gen-
eral application for the regulation of trans-
actions in commodities within the scope of
this Ordinance, if immediate regulation be-
comes necessary. Section 5, second sentence,
shall apply mutatis mutandis. The Ver-
waltungsamt shall be notified of the intended

measure; the order may be promulgated if-

the Verwaltungsamt.dces not, within three
weeks after receipt of the notification, raise
an objecion.

Section 40

(1) Verordnungen and Anordnungen for the
regulation of transactions’ in commodities in
trade and industry, issued before the coming
into force of this Ordinance, shall cease to
be effective not later than 30th June 1948.
The E.C.E, may, in individual cases, extend
the period. : ,

(2) Offenses committed after the coming into
force for this Ordinance against the provisions
mentioned in Subsection (1) or against An-
ordnungen issued under these provisions or
against other orders for the regulation of
transaction in commodities in trade and in-
dustry shall be punishable in accordance with
the provisions of Sections 12 to 35 this
Ordinance,

Section 41

The following provisions are no longer ap-
Plied to the sphere of trade and industry:

1. Verordaung uber den Warenverkehr as
amended on the 11th December ,1942 (RGB. I
S. 686) and Executive Order thereto with the
exception of the Veroidnung iiber die Wir-
kungen der Beschlagnahme zur Regelung des
Warenverkehrs vom 4 Mé&rz 1940 (RGB. I
S. 551).

2. Articles 1 and 2 of the Grosshessische
Verordnung tiber wirtschaftliche * Lenkungs-
massnahmen vom 18, Dezember 1945 (Gesetz-
und Verordnungsblatt fir Grosshessen 1945
No. 3 S. 25).

23 JUNE 1947

3. Verordnung jiber den Warenverkehr in
Baden vom 31. Qktober 1945 (Amtsblatt fir
Baden 1946 No. 1 S. 7).

4, Articles 2 and 3 of the Bayerische Ver-
ordnung Nr. 56 :tiber die Befugnisse der
Bayerischen Wirtschaftskontrollstellen vom
20. Marz 1946 (Bayerisches Gesetz- und Ver-
ordnungsblatt 1946'No. 12'S. 188),

Section 42

Under Section 10 (c) of Military Government
Law No, 2, as’ amended. by ‘Amendment
No. 2, German. courts are hereby authorized
to exercise jurisdiction in cases ‘involving
offensés against this Ordinance by persons

not. excepted fram the jurisdiction of German
courts: under Section 10 (a) ‘of Military Govern-
ment Law No. 2, as amended, .or a3 hereafter
amended.

Section 43 .

The German text of this Ordinance will be
the official text and the provisions of para-
graph 5 of Article II of Military Governinent
Law No. 4 will not apply to such text,

Section 44

This Ordinance shall become effective -on
10 June 1947,

More War Plants Allocated

N THE fourth bulk allocation made

by the Economics Directorate of the
Allied Control Authority from Ger-
man war plants in the US Zone 2,427
items of general purpose equipment
valued at RM 4,705,871 were allo-
cated to the Western Allied Nations
from six plants and to the USSR from
one plant.

Five of the six plants from which
equipment was. allocated. to the
Western Nations manufactured air-
craft parts during the war. They are
the Continental Metallwerke at Ober-
ursel, Hesse, with 34 items valued at
RM 131,524, the Continental Metall-
werke at Gross Auheim, Hesse, with
428 items valued at RM 1,293,369, the
Luftfahrtgeraetebau Gebr. Haage at
Stuttgart, with 29 items valued at
RM 90,260, the Hans Klemm Flugzeug-
bau at Boeblingen; Wuerttemberg-Ba-
den, with 124 items valued’ at RM
114,731, and a Messerschmitt plant at
Augsburg, Bavaria, with 248 items
valued at RM 257,417. The sixth plant
is Fabrik Bobingen, a large explo-
sive-chemical plant at Bobingen, Ba-
varia, which produced a powerful ex-
plosive known as hexogen. It con-
tains 1,124 items valued at RM
1,545,694. . .

The Helmut Sachse plant at Munich,
from which general purpose equip-
ment was allocated to the Soviet
Union, contains 440 items valued at
RM 1,272,876, ‘The Munich plant was
constructed in 1943 for the production
of electrical equipment for aircraft.

The four bulk allocations ‘from’ US
Zone. war plants which are indepen-

17

dent’ of the advance delivery. pro-
gram make a total of 95. plants. from
which general purpose equipment
valued at RM 99,940,251 has been.al-
located from the zone. .The total in-
cludes 75 plants from which general
purpose -equipment valued at RM
82,408,002 has. been allocated to the
Western Nations, and a total of 20
plants from which equipment -valued
at RM 17,532,249 has been allocated
to the USSR. Fifty-five of the 95 war
plants are in the aircraft industry, 17
in the armaments field, 14 are explo-
sive-chemical plants, and the remain-
ing 9 plants are producers of miscel-
laneous equipment. such as special
machinery, parts and tools.

This equipment represents remov-
able industrial capital equipment suit-
able for peacetime production,
whereas the war specialized equip-
ment (suitable only for production of
war materials) in these war plants is
liquidated by destruction.

The Inter Allied Reparation Agency
at. Brussels, composed of delegates
from each of the 18 member govern-
ments, is responsible for the sub-
allocation of equipment allocated to
the Western Allied Nations. The
member nations are Albania, Austra-
lia, Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Egypt, France, Greece,
India, Luxembourg, .Norway, The
Netherlands, New Zealand, Union of
South Africa, United Kingdom, United
States, and Yugoslavia. The USSR is
tesponsible -for assignment of rep-
arations to Poland from her own
share.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Export Program for Bavaria

JHE signal for initiating export

programs to produce $ 13,170,000
worth of pencils, toys, electro-medical
equipment and overcoats has been
received in Bavaria from the Joint
US/UK Import-Export Agency.

Approval of the programs, which
were developed by Bavarian manu-
facturers in cooperation with Mili-
tary Government, indicates to the
firms concerned that they may begin
production with materials now on
hand, while the bizonal agency will
undertake to import the necessary
raw materials, valued at $ 1,622,500.

The largest program approved was
the six-month proviso for the pro-
duction ‘of $6,000,000 worth of pen-
cils by Nuremberg firms from
$900,000 worth of raw materials.
Although the firm has been in pro-
duction of pencils for export for
nearly a year, new programs must be
drawn every six months to provide
for new imports.

Indicative of the complexity of
such programs was the list of raw
materials which must be procured
for the pencil industry alone: gums
and glues from Egypt and Persia;
aromatic woods from the United
States and Mexico; nitro-cellulose for
varnish from Sweden; linseed oil from
South America; rubber from the
Western Hemisphere; graphite from
Mexico, Ceylon, and Korea; kaolin
and alder-wood from Czechoslovakia;
wax from Japan, and talc powder from
Austria.

Conn. throughout the world
will be in the market for these
pencils, said officials of the Trade and
Commerce Branch, Office of Military
Government for Bavaria, because of
the quality and special types included
in the 260 different varieties. The pro-
duction includes all types from heavy
carpenter's pencils to fancy crayons,
in addition to color pencils of 50 dif-
ferent shades.

A  five-million-dollar export busi-
ness, based on $500,000 of imports,
is anticipated for the toy program
during the next six months. Imports
which the bizonal agency will pur-
chase for the program include Swe-
dish band steel, linseed oil from the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

United States and Holland, resin from
Holland and Portugal and goose-
feathers for artificial Christmas trees
and flowers from Czechoslovakia.
Sheet metal required will be pro-
cured from Germany stocks. Most
important contribution to the toy
program is German skill which pro-
duces complex mechanical toys that
are popular in world markets. Largest
buyers of Bavarian toys are the
United States and European coun-
tries.

Te new program for the Bavarian
electro-medical industry provides
for the export of $2,100,000 of X-ray
and dental equipment and spare parts
for electro-therapeutic equipment dur-
ing the next half year. This program
is extremely important to nearby
European nations, where doctors and
hospitals had used German-produced
medical equipment before the war. An
acute shortage of spare parts has de-
veloped, which can be alleviated by
production of the original manufac-
turers in Bavaria. The program is
based on approximately $212,500 of
imports, including copper, molyb-
denum, and tungsten.

Approximately 2,500 “loden coats”
worth $70,000 and known for their
high-quality wool, will be produced
for export under the new program,
which will provide for the import of
$ 10,000 of Australian wool. This will
be the first post-war export in this
line of goods.

As of 1 June, $33,692,648 worth of
exports had been sold in Bavaria,
with $ 14,019,280 worth already manu-
factured and shipped to the buyers.
The leading purchasers were the
United States, Switzerland, Sweden,
France, and Luxembourg.

German Phone Service

German nationals in the US and
British Zones of Germany, exclusive
of the city of Berlin, are permitted to
make reverse charge (collect) tele-
phone calls to the United States.
Overséas booking offices are located
at Frankfurt, Bremen, Munich, Nurem-
berg, Stuttgart, Wiesbaden, Kassel,
Heidelberg, Minden, and Duesseldorf.

18

Interzonal Trade
At RM 129,000,000

During the first quarter of 1947,
commodities valued at approximately
RM 75,000,000 were shipped from the
US Zones to the French an Soviet
Zones and Berlin, while US Zone re-
ceipts from these areas totaled about
RM 54,000,000 the Trade and Com-
merce Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS, announced. Total shipments
from the US Zone showed a four per-
cent increase over shipments for the
fourth quarter of 1946,. which totaled
about RM 72,000,000 while receipts
Tepresented a decline of 13 percent
from receipts for the fourth quarter
of 1946, which totaled RM 62,000,000.

Interzonal trade with the French
Zone was considerably greater during
the first quarter of 1947 than with the
Soviet Zone, 77 percent of US Zone
receipts coming from the French Zone
against 21 percent from the Soviet
Zone, and 71 percent of shipments
from the US Zone being made to the
French Zone compared to 25 percent
to the Soviet Zone. Receipts from Ber-
lin were two percent of the total,
and shipments to Berlin four percent,

Swiss Agreement

A trade agreement has been ini-
tiated in Berlin between Switzerland
and the combined UK/US area of Ger-
many. No estimate can be placed at
present on the value or volume of
trade likely to result, but heads of
the delegations which negotiated the
agreement expressed the view it
would greatly facilitate resumption of
normal business activities.

Lists of goods and services available
for export in Switzerland and the
UK/US Zones were exchanged. The
discussions covered trading proce-
dures between the combined UK/US
Zones and Switzerland, visits of
Swiss buyers to the Combined Zones,
as well as the goods and services
available for trade on either side and
the methods of payment.

The arrangements agreed upon re-
lative to the payment for trade ber
tween Switzerland and the UK/US aréa
of Germany provide for the establish-
ment with the Banque Nationalé
Suisse of a Swiss franc account anf
an account kept in dollars.

23 JUNE 1947

--- Page 22 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Munich Conference

Criticizing the withdrawal of the
representatives of the Soviet Zone
from the Ministers-President Con-
ference in Munich early this month,
the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
said:

“It is the tragedy of the Germans
that in historical moments they are
not able to find a common de-
nominator for their common fate. The
strong hope arising from the announ-
cement that the ministers of the
eastern zone would attend the Munich
Conference was suddenly extinguished
by the “action” with which the same
Ministers-President turned the _pre-
lude of the conference into a most
tragic gathering. ;

“Nobody could still doubt that the
represensatives of the eastern zone
did not want to ‘put aside the bar-
riers’... They arrived with the firm
aim of forcing upon the conference a
slant that would have annulled the
idea of the conference. According to
their instructions, they came to start
a political discussion and to carry on
that kind of political ‘action’ which
correspondends to the conception of
the occupation force of their zone.
Their ‘zonal’ love of Germany and
their attitude towards German distress
and problems were more important
to them than trying to solve economic
problems together (which would have
been a first step towards the solution
of political questions)..."

“Among Germans on German soil
we had to experience the same tra-
gedy as Moscow, which prevented, in
spite of the good will of the western
democracies, the beginning of the re-
organization of all of Germany.”

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten said:
“The fact, that the program of the
conference had not been thoroughly
prepared, is obvious. In politics there
are other attitudes than extremes. Be-
tween the conception of the unitary
state and the Bavarian viewpoint of
a federal state there are theoretical
and practical possibilities of over-
coming the contrasts. They need,

23 JUNE 1947

however, thorough preparatory think-
ing because the creation of the Laen-
der is based on totally different foun-
dations in the various zones.”

Right Direction
The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) does not believe

that the new Economic Council is a
panacea for the solution of German

‘problems, but sees it as a step in the

right direction. In a recent editorial,
it said:

“Compared with the situation of to-
day the essential point of progress is
that a resolution of the Economic
Council, if approved by both Mili-
tary Governments, will have about
the same significance as a statute of
the former Reich, the Laender being
executive institutions. But as long as
the separation of zones lasts, as long
as a peace treaty has not yet settled
our rights and duties, this office will
not be able to work out an effective
all-round plan of Germany's future.”

Single Summer Time

Commenting on the return to single
summer time, the Sueddeutsche Zei-
tung (Munich) observed:

“Simple Summer Time will be re-
introduced because the requests of
German authorities were agreed to
by the Occupation Forces. Therefore,
one should not say that any sound
German suggestion would be ignored
as a matter of course and must fail;
and that it would not be worth-while
to present a petition to the Allies
at all. That the German arguments
were accepted certainly means that
they were considered better and more
convincing than the counter-argu-
ments. German initiative has been
successful.

“Let the conclusion be drawn that
in other cases, too, we should present
petitions to the Occupation Forces
without an attitude of resignation, if
we feel we have the better reasons
on our side.”

19

The Mittelbayerische
gensburg), one of four licensed Ger-
man papers to remember D-Day edi-
torially, commented particularly on
the grandiose gamble of the German
military and reminded its readers that
Germans were foolish enough to fight
to the bitter end. It concluded:

“May the German standing at the
bank of the abyss learn only one
thing: never again to trust ambitious
military and bloodthirsty elements
who afterwards assert impudently
that Germany deserved this terrible
fate because of her shortcomings in
the military struggle.”

Potatoes for Berlin

Three Berlin papers — the US-
licensed Tagesspiegel, British-licensed
Telegraf, and Soviet-licensed CDU
organ Neue Zeit — reported that,
according to Mr. Frank L. Howley,
Director of the Office of Military
Government, US Sector, a special
shipment of potatoes will be made
shortly to Berlin.

The Tagesspiegel story advised that
4,000 tons of fresh potatoes from Ame-
rican Army stocks in the American
Zone will be sent to Berlin as soon
as posssible. The report also said,
American authorities will send 3,200
tons of dehydrated potatoes, corre-
sponding to 19,000 tons of fresh po-
tatoes.

“The Director of American Mili-
tary Government for Berlin Sector,
Frank L. Howley, declared that the
potato shortage is due to the fact
that the Soviet Zone did no send all
of the 160,000 tons of potatoes agreed
on for exchange against products
from the two west zones”, declared
the paper. “Mr. Howley said the
Russians lag behind in their ship-
ments by 99,000 tons, a stock which
would meet the needs of Berlin for
two months, and would meet the
needs of the American and British
Sectors for four months.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Cigarette Ban

The Frankfurter Neue Presse be-
lieved that the ban on cigarette im-
ports does not really destroy the
black market. It said:

“The ban on cigarette imports re-
cently announced by the American
Occupation Force, undoubtedly en-
deavors to prevent black export of
German goods to foreign countries...
To prevent this for the sake of the
German population, the Occupation
Forces decided upon so important a
regulation.

“First reports on its effect speak of
a terrible shock to the black market.
We, however, cannot believe that the
black market, always a consequence
of need and prohibition, can receive
the death stroke by this means...
it cannot mean that the black market
is dead. Those who are still able to
procure cigarettes... will have corre-
spondingly higher profits.”

Less Raw Materials

In a front page editorial, the US-
licensed evening paper, Der Abend,
pointed out that the raw material
situation is becoming “more and more
critical" in Berlin.

“In the Soviet Sector, for instance,
all distribution of raw materials
ceased weeks ago”, declared the
paper. “Almost nothing has been
made available for civilian use. Nor
has the visit of the eight district
mayors of the Soviet Sector to Gen-
eral Kotikow changed the matter.

“The districts were informed that
the Magistrat will receive raw ma-
terials for distribution by the central
Kommandantura. Up-to-date, however,
no. confirmation about raw material
allocations has been received by the
Magistrat. Since no raw materials
legally come into Berlin, the Berlin
plants... receive their supplies almost
exclusively from the ruins,”

“Well-informed circles express the
fear that unless raw materials are
supplied as soon as possible, the
breakdown of a great part of Berlin's
economy will be inevitable," de-
clared the paper. “A further con-
sequence would. be mass unemploy-
ment in Berlin, accompanied by cata-
strophic results.”

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Seek Better Solutions

The Frankenpost (Hof) in an edi-
torial, entitled “The Next Danger,”
said:

“The Allies do not hide the fact
that they made wrong decisions on
Germans problems. Everybody in the
United States could read Herbert
Hoover's report of 18 May 1947 in
which he noted two fundamental
errors: the first, when they wanted
Germany to become an ‘agricultural
state,’ a potato field; the second,
when, after revising the first plan,
they wanted Germany to keep her in-
dustry, but only a ‘light industry.’

“We can learn from the twice-
changed attitude of competent Amer-
ican circles that they do not stick to
narrow doctrines abroad, but are
determined to search for better solu-
tions. That should encourage us also
to submit our proposals if we are
afraid that mistakes may be made a
third time. This danger might arise
with the currency reform.”

The editorial discussed the danger
of improper currency reform, and
asserted the present surplus of money
might be converted into a shortage.

Forgetful of Past

The Darmstaedter Echo, finding de-
nazification wanting, said: “So far it
looks as if our people have scarcely
learned anything from the twelve
horrible years of the Hitler regime.”

Belgium Francs

EUCOM letter, AG 123.7 GSP-AGO,
titled “Belgian Francs” of 5 June 1947,
directs that all personnel be notified
to provide themselves with American
Express travelers cheques for ex-
change purposes before entering Bel-
gium, The letter quotes a cable re-
ceived from the US Military Attache
at Brussels, saying:

“Request you notify all military
units and personnel subject military
law in US Zone Germany that military
payment certificates cannot be ex-
changed in Belgium for Belgian
francs. Only money acceptable is
American travelers cheques and
dollar currency.”

20

Crime Increases
In Warm Weather

Crime flourishes in the spring in
Germany, according to figures re-
vealed by the first issue of the
Monthly Report on Crime Incidence
in the US Zone recently released by
the Public Safety Branch, IA & C Di-
vision, OMGUS. A high of 68,658
crimes against German and MG Laws
were reported in April. During the
cold month of February 54,010 cases
were booked.

The number of offenses against’
German Law per 100,000 population
reported during April ranged from a
low of 195 in Hesse to 464 in Bremen.
This difference is attributed to the
fact that Bremen is almost entirely an
urban district, more likely to have
a high crime rate, and also because
Bremen is a great port through which
pass most of the supplies for the
entire American Zone of Germany.

The Public Safety Branch believe
that the higher incidence of crime
during warmer weather is due to the
fact that criminals can get around
better when the nights are mild. How-
ever, some violations, such as coal
pilferage, naturally increase during
the period when cold weather makes
shortages more serious.

Of the 30,225 thefts listed for April,
7,985 are reported cleared in the-
Monthly Report. Two hundred and
nine of these thefts were of auto-
mobiles, and 29 percent of these car
cases are listed as “cleared.” In gene-
ral a case is considered “cleared”
when it is transferred to American
authorities, when the suspectd per-
petrator has been acquitted or cited,
or when the chief suspect is dead or
not extraditable.

Cases of offenses against MG Law
totaled 12,611 during April, and of
these 12,264 cases were cleared, with
12,678 persons jailed or cited for
these offenses, The Public Safety
Branch explains the high rate of con+
victions by the fact that in these
cases offenders are likely to. be
“caught in the act.”

During the nine months covered in
the first report 28,092 crimes were
committed by juveniles. Adults coms
mitted 310,718 offences during the
same months. 0

23 JUNE 1947

4

--- Page 24 ---
PRESS and RADIO COMME

The American press and radio com-
mentators, while recognizing America's
great responsibility for alleviating the
world food shortages, have stressed
the magnitude of the problem and
called for an orderly solution by uni-
ted action of all nations, with general
recovery the primary objective rather
than individual, unrelated relief efforts.

The Hartford Courant, quoting
Washington sources, found increasing
recognition that “US Foreign Policy
is dissipating the national substance
without being more than a palliative.
There is now serious discussion of a
fundamental change in purpose. The
idea is to abandon the unrelated
crisis actions of the past year, which
have sought to bolster Europe's shat-
tered economies separately, in favor
of a coordinated plan looking toward
the recovery of Europe as a whole.”

In a similar vein, the Philadelphia
Inquirer said in part: “The United
States is able to share its grain in a
substantial measure, as it has been
doing for sometime past. But the whole
problem of feeding Europe's hungry
should be worked out to a more
orderly solution .... Only by real
cooperation — and real planning and
economy by countries facing further
grave shortages — will the tremen-
dous issues of famine in Europe be
met."

St. Louis Star-Times, also calling for
a new approach to the relief problem,
wrote: “The humanitarian argument,
of course, will be strong in future
appeals, |And where it can be shown,
as in Greece and Turkey, that we are
strengthening the outposts against
Communism, Congress probably will
respond promptly. The emotional
approach, however, is not enough. Our
aim must be to rebuild a world eco-
nomic structure that will provide an
environment essential to our own con-
tinued good health. The agencies of
the United Nations should assume
their full responsibilities as fast as
they are able."

23 JUNE 1947

United Action Urged on Food Help

A report of the International Emer-
gency Food Council and US Secretary
of Agriculture Anderson‘s proposal for
a World Food Conference, approved
by IEFC, were prominently highlighted
as indicating the gravity of the situ-
ation and suggesting a hopeful approach
to a solution.

Referring to the IEFC report, Radio
Commentator Albert Warner said: “It
may be taken for granted that, in the
light of this report international ad-
vice and direction on the distribution
of available foodstocks will have to
be continued, and the administration
here in the United States will have
te-inforcement for its insistence on
retaining certain government controls
over exports and imports .... We
may be able to reduce our eventual
burden by bringing pressure to bear
for the economic unity (of Europe),
for the reduction of trade barriers and
restrictions of every kind, restrictions
that now hold back the ability of the
people there to stand on their own
feet."

The New York Times: ,,The problem
of feeding two continents goes beyond
the mere distribution or management
of available supplies, Mr. Anderson's
proposal seems to suggest. The real
problem, as emphasized by Mr. Fitz-
gerald (IEFC Secretary-General) is the
rehabilitation of production. That, it
would seem, must be the main pur-
pose of many conference. Rehabili-
tation of the production of food also
requires the rehabilitation of whatever
industrial production is necessary for
that purpose, which would seem to
require another conference on the
broader aspects of the problem. The
fact is that the present widespread
famine is primarily a political famine,
caused not merely by war, cold and
drought, but even more directly by the
political and economic policies of the
victors — policies which are stran-
gling European and, to a large extent,
Asiatic production, converting fertile
lands into wastelands by the expulsion
of their populations, and dismantling

21

The Washington Star: “A conference
cannot of itself feed people. The hun-
gry cannot eat plans or resolutions.
Nevertheless, such a meeting is essen-
tial, and the sooner it is held the
better. By gathering together in one
place and working on the problem
from all angles, the Food Ministers of
the 34 nations represented on the
Council can do much to alleviate the
situation. Otherwise, without any joint
consultation or planing, there could
be only last-minute improvisation, and
much more than that obviously is
needed ....

nThe projected conference can
achieve two things: First, it can work
out a sound and orderly distribution
system to meet the minimum needs of
countries seriously short of food;
second, it draws up a program to help
those countries increase and husband
their home-grown supplies.

If at the same time the great powers
would agree on common action to
make the most of Germany's resour-
ces, the hardest part of the problem
could be overcome, It is clear, in any
case, that as long as there is extensive
hunger in the world, it will en-
courage social unrest and political in-
stability. All peace-loving nations
should feel impelled, accordingly, to
do whatever they can to erase it.“

The New York Times also devoted
an approving editorial to Herbert
Hoover's relief plan, particularly with
respect to the occupied territories.
After rejecting, Mr. Hoover's first two
alternatives of “letting the conquered
countries drag the whole world to
chaos," or “continue to carry these
people, chiefly through American
charity, on a food-subsistence level,”
the paper said:

“The third choice is to put these
people on their own feet by creating
conditions that will permit them,
under close military supervision, to
restore their industrial production and
resume their exports. This is the best
choice of the three before us, and Mr.
Hoover urges us to accept it promptly

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
and press for it strongly through uni-
fied British-American action... ..

“Simultaneously, Hoover also urges,
let us stop spending our gigantic
billions upon billions of relief ...
through five or six different agencies,
whose activities are frequently not
coordinated, and let us centralize this
responsibility in a manner which will
insure a single clear aim and a larger
measure of efficiency.

“These are the essentials of a work-
able foreign policy. Experience has
been piling up evidence in their behalf
for many months.”

The plan, advanced by Harold Stas-
sen, for earmaking 10 percent of
American production for world distri-
bution had a mixed reaction:

The Indianapolis News: “Mr. Stas-
sen's bold plan for devoting for the
next 10 years 10 percent of our total
national production of goods and food
to building ‘for world-wide peace and
plenty and freedom’ is not to be
lightly dismissed either in its concep-
tion or in its practical implications.
And, in its linking, not with actual
payment but with American rights to
raw materials and guarantees of in-
dividual economic freedom in the
regions where it would be received,
it commands solid appeal as a basis
for discussion.”

The Minneapolis Morning Tribune:
“Stassen’s proposal... is sound in
its basic conception. What figure
should be agreed upon will be argued
vigorously, and Stassen’s proposed 10
percent may be high. But the prin-
ciple of systematic and prolonged
assistance is what matters ...."

The Dallas Morning News: ‘The
great dangers in any plan of this sort
are: (1) Under-estimation of unfore-
seen contingencies that may arise to
nullify the intended effect; (2) The
complexity that such a seemingly
simple plan can develop even without
the arising of unforeseen adverse
contingencies. Stassen is right in
assuming that America should go all-
out to help restore world stability, but
he is naive in thinking that we can
chart a ten-year course. If Stassen
will look back over the newspaper
headlines for a period of a quarter of
a century, he will fail to find many
charted courses involving foreign
affairs that have lasted as long as
a year.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Change 2 to Title 17, Property
Control, AG 014.12, OMGUS, 14 March
1947, Supersedes Title 17 and
Change 1.: Text of new title issued
same date.

Change 1 to Title 12, Food and
Agriculture, AG 014.12, OMGUS,
21. March 1947. Supersedes Title 12.
Text of new title issued same date.

Change 1 to Title 5, Legal and
Penal Administration, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 27 March 1947. Supersedes
Title 5. Text of new title issued same
date.

Change 1 to Title 3, Political Activ-
ities, AG 014.12, OMGUS, 1 April
1947. Supersedes Title 3. Text of new
title issued same date.

Change 3 to Title 24, Important
German Legislation, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 8 April 1947. Adds new
instructions, decrees, regulations and
registrations. Text of additions issued
same date.

Change 3 to Title 21, Information
Control, AG 014.12, OMGUS, 16 April
1947, Supersedes Title 21 and Changes
1 and 2. Text of new title issued
same date.

Plan for Reorganization of U. S.
Forces in the European Command,
AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
5 May 1947, Gives Appendix G-
Signal Plan to Annex No. 2. -

Final Salary Payments of US Civilian
Employees Returning to Zone of
Interior, AG 230 GAP-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 9 May _ 1947. Concerns
proper data needed by New York
POE Payroll Section to insure ex-
peditious payments of employees.

Automotive Preventive Maintenance
Services, AG 451 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 12 May 1947. Refers to
drivers weekly inspection and servic-
ing work sheet.

Procurement of German Wines and
Liquors for US Forces, AG 435 GAP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 12 May 1947.

Report on High Pressure Steam
Boilers, AG 412 ENG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 12 May 1947.

Refresher Course, Military Police
School, European Command, AG 352
PMG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 12 May 1947.

22

Concerns tentative outline of the
subjects to be covered in the refresher
course.

Port Call System, AG 370.5 GAP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 12 May 1947.
Concerns shipping priority numbers
and alert notices for personnel re-
turning to the United States.

Better Utilization of Stenographers
and Typists, AG 230 GAP-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 12 May 1947. Lists eight
point utilization program.

Small Arms Competitions. AG 353
GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 12. May 1947.
Concerns rifle and pistol matches to
be held at the Grafenwohr Training
Center, Grafenwohr, Germany, dur-
ing the period 25 August—7 Septem-
ber 1947, :

Changes No. 7, USFET-SOP 78,
“Sales Commissary Operation", Hq
EUCOM, 13 May 1947. Concerns col-
lection procedure.

Logistical Support to the US and
Soviet Military Liaison Missions and
the US Commander in Chief of the
Zones of Occupation, AG 322 GDS-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 13 May 1947. Lists
facilities afforded through agreement
to both the Soviet and US Com-
manders in Chief.

Emergency Return of Military Per-
sonnel to Zone of Interior, AG 210.711
GAP-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 13 May
1947, Pertains to requests originating
in the United States by other than
subject concerned, such as subject's
family.

Downgrading of OPDIB, AG 380.01
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 13 May 1947.

Status Report on Chemical Corps
Materiel, Reports Control Symbol
ECCML-3, AG 400. CML-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 14 May 1947. Gives outline
for submitting monthly report.

Procedure for Standardizing Type-
writers and Disposing of Surplus
Stocks, AG 400.7 RMJ-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 14 May 1947.

Improvement of Personel Appear-
ance and the Hand Salute, AG 250
GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 14 May 1947

Payment in Military Payment Cer-
tificates for Telecommunication Ser-
vices, AG 248 SIG-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
14 May 1947. t it

23 JUNE 1947

--- Page 26 ---
Assistance to Licensed German
News Representatives, AG 000.7
BPR-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 14 May 1947.
Substitutes in USFET, letter of 14 No-
vember 1946 for par 4: “Germans may
attend press conferences for the US
and Allied press."

+ Immunization of Dependents, AG
720.3 MCH-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 May
1947.

Payment of Direct and Contract
Labor, AG 248 CDS-GAP-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 15 May 1947. Outlines
responsibility for payment of wages
to indigenous labor.

Sub-Allocation of Solid. Fuels, AG
463.7 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 May
1947, Rescinds USFET letter AG
463.3 ENG-AGO of 31 December 1946,
and notes current instructions.

Army Extension ‘Courses, AG 352
GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 May 1947.
Concerns eligibility for enrollment,
subcourses and. lists of schools and
agencies conducting extension courses.

Assignment of Shipboard Accom-
modations, AG 230.42 GAP-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 16 May 1947. Assigns com-
parable rank to civilian employees
only for shipboard accommodations
and cites port facilities.

.Plan for Reorganization of U. S.
Forces in the European Command,
AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
16 May 1947, Amends EUCOM letter
of 5 May 1947,

Company Tailor Shops, AG 486.3
BFD-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 16 May 1947.
States. allocated indigenous funds
will not be utilized for payment of
personnel employed in -unit tailor
shops.

Record of Trial by General Court-
Martial, AG 250.4 JAG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 17 May 1947. Cites responsi-
bility for seeing that general pri-
soners receive copy of the. trial
record.

Authority for Foreign Liaison Offi-
cers to Contact German Institutions,
AG 322.01 ACS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
19 May 1947, Amends USFET letter,
AG 322.01 ALC-AGO of 20 Septem-
ber 1946 by adding: “Under no cir-
cumstances are foreign liaison per-
sonnel authorized to issue directive to
the German authorities.”

Feeding of Indigenous Employees of
Non-Military Agencies, AG 230.033

23 JUNE 1947

GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 19 May 1947.
Rescinds USFET letters AG 430.2 GDS-
AGO of 4 October and 9 November
1946, and states proceedure.

Local Procurement on Behalf of
UNRAA, AG 400 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 19 May 1947. States channel
and responsibility.

EUCOM Publication. Depot Bulletia
10, Hq EUCOM, 19 May 1947, Gives
list for 12 to 16 May.

Security of Residential Type Instal-
lations, AG 371.2 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 19 May 1947. Directs early
transfer from US troop responsibility
to local civil police.

Monthly Radio Status Report, AG
319.1 PMG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 19 May
1947,

Operation of Garages in Austria
and Germany for Privately-Owned
Vehicles, AG 634 GAP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 20 May 1947. Rescinds
USFET letter of 17 June 1946.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the origi-
nating headquarters.

Detail of Officers in Special Ser-
vices, AG 210.31 AGP-B, Hq EUCOM,
21 May 1947, Cites required reports.

Personnel Receiving Additional Pay
(Other Than AAF) (Reports Control
Symbol WIGPA-98), AG 241.17 AGP-B,
Hq EUCOM, 22 May 1947. Concerns
WD request for necessary data on
future budget requirements.

Recurring Reports Register, AG
319.2 AGX-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 May
1947, Supersedes USFET instructions
AG 319.1 of 20 January 1947,

Ordnance Specialist Training, AG
353 ORD-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 May
1947,

Identification of Members of Soviet
Military Liaison Mission to US Zone,
AG 200.2 ACS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
22 May 1947. Concerns Foreign Liai-
son Officer's Identity Card.

Maintenance Memo No. 3, Hq
EUCOM, 22 May 1947. Section I
Ordnance — Concerns automotive
maintenance. Section II Signal—

23

Concerns maintenance of hand tele-
phone set.

Food Service Program, AG 430.2
RMJ-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 May 1947.
Concerns personnel selection.

Circular No. 33, Hq EUCOM,
23 May 1947, Awards and Decorat-
ions. Lists Proceedure.

Functions of the Office of WAC
Staff Director, EUCOM, AG 322.011
GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 24 May 1947.

Circular No. 36, Hq EUCOM,
26 May 1947. Occupation Expense
Fiscal Policy. Lists proceedure.

Circular No. 37, Hq EUCOM,
26 May 1947. Sections II and III—
Lists clothing and equipment allo-
wances, :

National Service Life Insurance,
AG 091.11 AGP-B, Hq EUCOM,
27 May 1947. Concerns correcting
incomplete applications,

Circular No. 39, Hq EUCOM,
27 May 1947. Section I Leaves, passes
and travel in the European Command;
Section II Duty travel orders and
clearance; Section III Rations and
messing; Section IV Sale of motor
vehicles, Concern amendments in
previous circulars.

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Request, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
27 May 1947. Cites MG approval to
the Laenderrat regarding Laenderrat
comment on draft law concerning
control of movement of goods in trade
and industry; proposed by bizonal
Executive Committee for Economics;
dissolution of Office of Director Ge-
neral for Transportation; and dratt
statute for special committee ‘on
education,

Identification Symbols, AG 312
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 28 May 1947.
Gives symbols for identifying cables
and correspondence.

Sale of New Automobiles, AG: 451
GPA-AGO; Hq EUCOM, 29 May 1947.
Concerns new lottery drawings for
cars.

Allied Liaison Personnel, AG
091.714, "ACS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
29 May 1947. Concerns responsibility
of foreign liaison personnel for re-
porting travel.

Inclusion of Geographical Place
Name on_ Correspondence, Staff

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Memo No. 27, OMGUS, 29 May 1947.
Concerns the use of geographical
location on letterheads.

Military Police on Military Duty
Trains, AG 322 PMG-AGO, Hy
EUCOM, 29 May 1947. Lists train
number and destination carrying
military police.

Circular No. 40, Hq EUCOM,
30 May 1947. Section I Disposition
of Excess and Surplus Property,
rescinds USFET-SOP 57 and notes
SOP 86 and 98. Section II Transfer of
Enlisted Personnel, rescinds Sec IV,
EUCOM Cir 24 of 1947 and notes AR
provision. Section III Leaves Passes
and Travel, amends EUCOM Cir 9
of 1947, Section IV Procurement,
Distribution, Rationing and Consumpt-
ion of Class VI Supplies, amends
EUCOM, Cir -3 of 1947. Section V
Prohibited and Permitted Transactions
in the European Command, sub-
stitutes barter clause in USFET Cir
140 of 1946 as follows: ‘(3) Barter.
Barter Stores are not authorized,
except for the experimental Barter
Stores in Berlin and Frankfurt."
Section VI Sale of Motor Vehicles,
corrects rescission in EUCOM Cir 31
of 1947,

Circular No, 41 Hq EUCOM, 2 June
1947. Section I Export and Import of
Tobacco Products, reiterates recent
prohibition. Section II Marriage, re-
vises approval] clause in USFET Cir
181 181 of 1946, Section III Control of
Explosives.

Utilization of Former Military and
Para Military Lands by State Settle-
ment Authorities under Land Settle-
ment Law, AG 010.6 (ED), OMGUS,
2 June 1947, Explains fullest utiliza-
tion under MG Law No. 54.

Belgian Francs, AG 123.7 GSP-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 5 June 1947 (sce separate
item).

Recission of OMGUS Letter, “Re-
vision of MGR Title 21 Concerning
Interim Procedures in Information
Control Licensing and Registration,”
AG 000.76 (IC), 12 October 1946, AG
010.6 (IC), OMGUS, 5 June 1947.

Officer Procurement, AG 200.3 (PO),
OMGUS, 7 June 1947.

Numbering and Marking of High-
ways, AG 611 (IA), OMGUS, 9 June
1947. Establishes Control Committee
in US Sector Berlin.

General Orders No. 56, Hq EUCOM,
9 June 1947, Discontiuance of Con-
tinental Base Section, effective
15 June 1947,

Allied Military Missions, AG 091.112
(SG), OMGUS, 10 June 1947. Gives
new list for OMGUS letter of 25
February 1947. The US Element,
Allied Liaison & Protocol Section, is
the official point of contact between
these Miissions and all echelons of
MG.

Interzonal Travel of German Ci-
vilians, AG 200.4 (IA), OMGUS,
11 June 1947. Concerns pass forms
prescribed in Control Council Direc-
tives for interzonal travel of Ger-
mans. Form MG/PS/G/6 will be dis-
continued immediately, however,
passes issued on this form prior to
receipt of directive will be honored
until 1 July 1947,

OMGUS. Action on Laenderrat Re-
quest, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
12 June 1947. Corrects OMGUS letter
of 4 June 1947,

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
12 June 1947, Cites MG reply to the
Laenderrat, 9 June 1947 on release of
personal documents to expellees.

(Continued from page 7)

Parliamentary Advisory Council

point of view. Thus the largest and
smallest of the Laender are committed
to the proposition that the opinion of
the Landtag back home should be
binding on its delegates.

Te meetings of the Parliamentary
Council are open to the press, which

is also regarded as a democratic step.

In case the Laenderrat members
want to follow the debate of the PAC
closely on any controversial issue,
they are welcome at any council
meeting, and may participate in it.
The Council may request the presence
of the Secretary General and the Laen-
derrat Plenipotentiaries; and if the
Council members want to inform them-
selves more fully about proposed leg-
islation they may partipate in the
meetings of the committees and sub-
committees of the Laenderrat.

The Council was undertaken as an
experiment, and set up with a pur-
posely short tenure — it is authorized
by an amendment to the Laenderrat

statutes. This amendment expires
30 June, and if it is to continue, must
be extended by unanimous decision
of the Laenderrat.

The Council is working out very
well and its decisions carry weight
and prestige because of the sincerity
and earnestness with which its mem-
bers have thrown themselves into the
difficult problems which confront them.

(Continued from page 10)
Books on Germany

Part I deals with Europe between the
two World Wars, Part II with pro-

blems in the various world areas, and’

Part III with a proposal for future
world organization and the role of
the United States should _ play in
world affairs.

The Second Chance; America and
the Peace, edited by J. B. Whitton
(Princeton, Princeton University Press,
1944, 235 pages). This work is an
attempt to clarify some of the basic
issues of the post-war world crisis
and “to state as realistically as
possible what ... America should do
to get rid of war and the threat of
war.” It is an analysis of what
American foreign policy after World
War II should be. Written as it is by
seven members of the Princeton
Group for the Study of Post-war
International Problems it reveals
differences of opinion concerning de-
tails, but all authors agreed that “the
United States should, for its own sake
and the sake of other nations, par-
ticipate wholeheartedly in a world-
wide effort to achieve an enduring
peace.”

The Gentlemen Talk of Peace, by
William B. Ziff (New York, Mac-
millan, 1944, 530 pages), An ex-
amination of the basic problems fac-
ing the world today. The author
points out these problems and cautions
the reader that there are no panacea’
nor short-cuts to peace. He maintains
that the solutions to the world’s
problems must be global, not national.
He proposes the establishment of five
“Power Aggregates," each made up
of nations that voluntarily surrender-
ed boundaries and sovereignties. Each
“Power Aggregate” would be ablé
to completely support itself. The idea
is thought-provoking, even if the
reader disagrees. 4

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF