--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 93 / 19 MAY 1947
NUREMBERG TRIALS

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
OBER =
LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG

os QBERTAUNUS|
CT

BODINGEN

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG
OARMSTAD’
BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

BRUCHSAL

OFSHEIM

HEILBRONN

oe

BOBLINGEN : ;

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

Photo from PRO, OCC

NUREMBERG TRIALS—The defendants at

the War Crimes trials in Nuremberg were
allowed representation by the best German

 atforneys available, The cover picture shows TABLE OF Cc ONTE NTS
some of the defense counsels at the trial of

) physicians and ‘scientists, A ‘comprehensive
article on all the current trials appears on

Page 3. Nuremberg, ylrals: 9 svi) copie. atest ales ho VA SLES ee
Laender Advised to Adopt Decrees. . ..... 6
New Books on Germany's Past )..0.0 202°)... ee:

OUR CONTRIBUTORS
Juvenile Detention Home’... «5. 2". «ee 9

H. Peter Dreyer, writer of the article iy a
Nuremberg Trials, is Acting Public Rela- Tnterns Get Year Training 2006 jog is | <p: ace
tions Officer for the Office of the Chief of

Counsel for War Crimes. Previous to joining Anti-Semitism in Germany. . . .
the OCC organization, he was on the staffs Reactions del an tear ta
of the Frankfurt, Berlin, and Nuremberg German Reaction Ghar
Bureaus of DENA, the German news ser- i i fs
vice established by the Information Control Regulations for Auto Sale. . . . - +. sss

, Division, Z

The reviews contained in New Books on Scene ‘of Restitution: 297%. -0e5.-- 0 - Seas
Germany's Past were prepared and furnished 2. P 16

’ by the Research Branch of the Information Official Instructions
Control Division, OMGUS,

The report on Anti-Semitism in Germany
was prepared by the Information Control
Division and distributed by the Office of
the Director of Public Relations, OMGUS.
Material for Juvenile Detention Home
was furnished by Mildred Biklen, Public
Welfare Branch, Berlin Sector, to give a
picture of that Institution's work in educa- OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

tion and rehabilitation among the young CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY
_ boys of Berlin.

\

¥

--- Page 5 ---
AMONG THE DEFENDANTS. (Above) Erhard Milch, former fieldmarshal, hears
his sentence of life imprisonment (Photo from PRO, OCC). (Right) Defendant
Gebhardt begins his testimony at physicians-scientists trial (Army Signal Corps
photo). (Lower left) At the first industrialists trial, left to tight, Otto Stein-
brinck, Bernhard Weiss, and Friedrich Flick (Army Signal Corps photo).
(Lower right) At the physicians-scientists trial, left to right, front row, Karl

Brandt, Siegfried Handloser, and Paul Rostock; back. row, Gerhard Rose and
Siegfried Ruff (Photo from PRO, OCC).

--- Page 6 ---
By H. Peter Dreyer

jhe eyes of the world turn once again to Nurem-

berg where 24 directors of IG Farben, the largest
and most powerful chemical combine of the world,
have been formally charged with participation in a
long list of war crimes. If this indictment has
received much more notice than the war crimes
trials held during the past few months at Nurem-
berg, Dachau, Ravensbrueck, and other places inside
and outside Germany, if it recalls to mind the
original accusations against Hermann Goering and
other top Nazi leaders, this is not entirely due to
the character and size of the Farben Combine.
There is a very definite parallel: like Goering and
his fellow defendant these 24 Farben officials have
been accused of the gravest of war crimes—the
planning and preparation of war itself, an accusation
which must be all the weightier since outwardly
at least the Farben directors were not ministers,
generals, or party leaders, but industrialists and
businessmen—so-called priyate citizens.

Yet, for all its outstanding importance, the
Farben case also forms a very distinct part of the
pattern set by the trials which have been going on
in Nuremberg for the past six months and which
had been planned even before the International
Military Tribunal had concluded its sessions. It was

19 MAY 1947

(Above) Palace of Justice where the trials are
being held. (Below) Brig. Gen. Telford Taylor,
Chiet of Counsel for War Crimes, opening the case
against the physicians and scientists.

Photos from PRO, OCC

--- Page 7 ---
realized at an early date that it would
not be sufficient to try only Goering
and the top level ministers and Nazi
leaders. The policies which these men
were making—policies which the
International Military Tribunal brand-
ed as criminal—were executed by
others who in so doing rendered
themselves equally guilty. Were these
others who contributed as much as
their leaders to the Nazi crimes to go
unjudged and unpunished, the work
done by the IMT would remain un-
finished and without a chance of
success. It was for this reason that the
suggestion was made for the con-
tinuation, under Allied Control Coun-
cil Law No. 10, of the trials in
Nuremberg before American tribunals.
This suggestion found its final ex-
pression in the establishment by MG
Ordinance No. 7 of tribunals in the
US Zone for trial of major Axis war
leaders, and in the appointment of
Brig. Gen. Telford Taylor as Chief
of Counsel for War Crimes.

While the courts now sitting in
Nuremberg are staffed with American
judges and while American attorneys
are now working on the preparation
of the cases and their presentation in
court, Nuremberg has not lost alto-
gether its international character. In
addition to visitors from practically
every country of Europe, there are
many resident foreign delegations re-
presenting the interests of their
governments at the trials of the Ger-
man war criminals. And although the
trials are no longer conducted in the
four languages of the IMT—English,
French, Russian, and German—the
necessity of holding them in English
and German still demands a large
staff of translators and interpreters,
in addition to all the other technical
personnel required to keep this huge
machine in operation.

Four Divisions Functioning

The work of the Office of Chief of
Counsel is split up into four main
divisions—a Military Division, an SS
Division, a Ministries Division, and
an Economics Division—and among
themselves these divisions prepare
their cases individually. To date, each
one has brought in at least one case,
while at the same time continuing
work on other cases.

The one case to be completed so

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

far was that against the former Luft-
waffe Fieldmarshal Erhard Milch, who
was accused chiefly for his share in
the procurement and allocation of
slave labor to run the German war
machine. He had occupied a key
place on the Central Planning Board
which supervised Germany's indu-
strial production during the last
years of the war and determined how
the workers obtained from German
occupied countries by every means
of compulsion, ruse, and fraud were
to be allocated and used. Milch was
acquitted on the charge of partici-
pation in the medical experiments
which form the subject of another
current trial in Nuremberg, since the
court held that his knowlege of these
experiments could not be adequately
proved. He was, however, sentenced
to imprisonment for life for his share
in the control of slave labor. Retrib-
ution for crimes against humanity,
such as those committed by Milch,
must be swift and certain, the tribunal
staetd. ’Future would be dictators and
their subservient satellites must know
what follows their defilement of in-
ternational law and of every type of
decency and fair dealing with their
fellow-men. Civilization will be satis-
fied with nothing less.”

The horrors of the concentration
camps both in their general outline
and in their application to some of
the individual inmates are the subject
of two trials currently held by the
SS Division. The first deals with Os-
wald Pohl and 17 other leasers of the
WVHA, the main economic and ad-
ministrative office of the SS which
was responsible, among other things,
for the maintenance of concentration
camps and the allocation of inmates
for labor purposes, The prosecution
has completed its case. It called wit-
nesses who testified to the brutal
murder of children in concentration
camps, Since there were not enough
gas chambers to take care of them,
some of the children were burned
alive, with a band playing the “Blue
Danube Waltz” to drown the cries of
the victims. One of the prosecution
witnesses was Dr. Eugen Kogon, an
inmate of Buchenwald camp and
author of the book “Der SS Staat”
which has been translated into five
languages. (Dr. Kogon’s book is re-

4

viewed in this issue of the Weekly
Information Bulletin in the article
“New Books on Germany's Past.")

Some Admit Experiments

Dr. Kogon also testified in the trial
of the 23 Wehrmacht and SS doctors
who are charged with carrying out
medical experiments on inmates of.
concentration camps, In this trial
which has now gone on for four
months most of the defendants
have already been on the stand.
Many have admitted that some of
the experiments they carried out led
to the death of one or several per-
sons, although invariably they have
tried to protect themselves by saying
that they believed these people to be
criminals who had been sentenced to
death. In the ranks of these doctors
are scientists of previous repute and re-
cognized leaders of the German med-
ical profession standing accused
along with politically-promoted SS
doctors. One of the men in the dock
is Karl Gebhardt who grew up with
Himmler. In his testimony he has
thrown some light on the strange
development of Himmler, the man
whose name is linked not only with
the concentration camps in general
but more particularly with nearly
every type of experiment charged by
the prosecution.

Whereas the Doctors’ trial shows
the depths into which part of the
German medical profession had sunk,
the Justice case, the first brought by
the Ministries Division, performs a
similar function with regard to the
German legal profession. The 15
Justice Ministry  officials—judges
and prosecutors who have been on
trial for the past two months—stand
accused of having perverted the rules
and regulations of the German law
and of having turned the German
legal system into a mere tool of Nazi
politics and propaganda, An interest-
ing feature of this case is that these
former judges and prosecutors now
find themselves as defendants before
a court which gives them those rights
which they denied others. One parti-
cular complex of questions presented
by the prosecution deals with the
notorious People’s Court which under
the Nazi regime was the first and last
instance in all political crimes. During

19 MAY 1947

--- Page 8 ---
the final stages of the war the
People’s Court dealt out death senten-
ces for the most insignificant and
trivial offenses.

Case of Private Citizens

The defendants in all the cases de-
scribed so far have one thing in
common—they were officials, mem-
bers of the government, high civil ser-
vants, officers of the armed forces,
or prominent party leaders. The cases
of the Economics Division, of which
the Farben indictment has already
been mentioned, deal with a different
category of persons, ostensibly pri-
vate citizens who for reasons of
personal profit or ambition were in-
volved in the Nazi crimes. The case
against Friedrich Flick and five other
directors of the Flick Combine, the
biggest privately-owned steel and iron
works in Germany, started only
recently. Since the beginning of the
trial the prosecution has attempted to
show that slave labor was being used
in some of the Combine's steel works;
that these workers—foreigners and
prisoners of war—were badly fed
and housed, that they were beaten,
that there was no adequate protec-
tion from illness and epidemics, that
many deaths resulted from their treat-
ment — and that the defendants knew
of all this. Also, that the defendants
had been at great pains to get this
cheap labor for their factories,

In the Farben case, 21 officials have
been served copies of the indictment
charging them with war crimes and
crimes against humanity on a mass

scale. Three of the officials were ab-
sent when charges were filed early
this month: Karl Wuerster and Ernst
Buergin, both former members of the
Farben board of directors, were to be
brought to Nuremberg as soon as
possible; Max Brueggemann, secre-
tary of the board, was ill in prison.
The trial will begin in about four
weeks.

But these are only trials currently
proceeding. There are plans for
several others which will mature
during the next few months. There
will be a trial against German field
marshals and generals for war crimes
committed in the field; one against
foreign office officials and high civil
servants belonging to other ministries;
cases against Gestapo and SD leaders;
and, also cases against the Krupp
armament works and other large eco-
nomic enterprises. In all these cases
war crimes will be charged.

Germans Observe Proceedings
What of the German reaction? Ger-
mans may now enter all the court
rooms and watch the progress of the
trials for themselves, something they
were not allowed to do during the
International Military Tribunal. Ger-
man correspondents, particularly of
the news agencies, are present at all
sessions of the courts and although

coverage was not too good during the
first few months, there recently has
been a very definite change for the
better. This has coincided with the
beginning of the Economic trials
when the number of German corre-
spondents at Nuremberg grew to
25 journalists coming from all four
zones, The radio stations, too, have
shown increasing interest. The Munich
station, for example, now devotes
three 15-minute transmissions each
week to the current trials.

The question of German interest is
all the more vital since the impor-
tance of these trials does not lie
solely in the punishment of the guilty
individuals, As General Taylor stated
at the beginning of the Doctors’ trial,
“The perverse thoughts and distorted
concepts which brought about these
savageries are not dead. They cannot
be killed by force of arms. They must
not become a spreading cancer in the
breast of humanity. They must be
cut out and exposed, for the reason
so well stated by Mr. Justice Jackson
in this courtroom a year ago:

‘The wrongs which we seek to
condemn and punish have been so
calculated, so malignant, and so
devastating that civilization cannot
tolerate their being ignored because
it cannot survive their being
repeated.’

(Left) Mrs. Hanna Solf, prosecution witness at the People's Court trial and

widow of a former German foreign minister and diplomat,

tells of her

experiences before the Nazi court and in concentration camp. (Middle) Re-
presentatives of the German press entering the court room to cover the
proceedings. (Right) Bernd von Brauchitsch, former colonel and military
adjutant to Goering, as a defense witness at the Milch trial.

Photos from PRO, OCC and Army Signal Corps

--- Page 9 ---
LAENDER ADVISED TO ADOPT DECREES

Stronger German Action for Collecting Foodstuffs Also Urged at Council
Meeting; Stricter Controls on Use of Production Declared Imperative

In addressing the 20th meeting of
the Laenderrat at Stuttgart 6 May,
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, the Military
Governor, stressed the importance of
deliveries of foodstuffs, utilization of
Production, and future of education.
The text of his speech follows.

At this particular time I would like
to congratulate you on the functioning
of your Parliamentary Advisory
Council. It has, as I understand it,
already had three meetings and has
given helpful advice on nine laws
under consideration. It has opened its
meetings to the press, which I am
sure will prove beneficial.

There is a problem which I would
like to bring to the attention of the
Laenderrat and that is the promul-
gation in the several Laender of laws
which have been passed by the
Laenderrat. During the past year you
have adopted 24 laws or decrees.
However, 37 percent of those have
not yet been promulgated by all of
the Laender. One of these, the Law
for the Misuse of Foreign Relief
Supplies, was passed by the Laender-
rat last fall and has not been pro-
mulgated in any of the Laender. I am
sure that the Laenderrat will agree
with me that it will have to place
into effect a follow-up system to see
that these laws are carried out
promptly and promulgated in the
Laender. I would like to say on
behalf of Bavaria, which is sometimes
accused of being non-cooperative,
that its record is by far the best of
all the Laender.

Necessity for Cooperation

There are two things that I think
extremely important. I do not want
you to interpret what I am saying as
criticism of the past. I do want you
to interpret it as a pointing out of
the necessity for greater cooperation
than we have yet had.

The first problem, of course, is
related to Germany's first major
problem—food. I am not convinced
nor do I believe you gentlemen
of the Laenderrat are convinced that

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the utmost has yet been done in
collecting foodstuffs from the farm.
Take the question of livestock—there
is no question that there is a re-
sistance on the part of the farmer to
deplete his livestock, which means
more to him than money during a
period of inflation. Yet it is difficult
to understand why there is fat,
healthy livestock in such large num-
bers on the farm when you go into
the cities and see the faces of hunger
there. You know as well as I know
that food which should be going to
human beings who need that food is
going to feed livestock.

Goods for Farmer

I think we both recognize that the
availability of consumer goods for
the farmer would go far to help this
problem, Perhaps in each of the Laen-
der you might give consideration to
a program which might help to this
end. Very obviously we do not want
a police state. Nevertheless, a state
cannot be stronger than its ability to
see that its own laws are executed.
It seems to me that the strengthening
of your administrative machinery for
the collection and distribution of food
is one of the most important problems
before you, I think, also, that it is
extremely important that you make
a last-minute drive to get the maximum
spring planting and the maximum
amount of home gardening started
during the next month.

In connection with this problem, I
want to reiterate that food is still a
world problem today and with all
of the goodwill in the world we
are still having great difficulty in
buying the food that is necessary to
meet our commitments here, We are
having to compete in our bidding for
such food against other countries who
were our Allies during the war and
who now hive an even lower ration
scale than in Germany. In spite of
that, I am confident that we shall
meet our commitments in grain. We

are also trying very hard to buy fat.

in the world market, although I must
admit that we have not yet succeeded.

6

There is another related problem
which I would like to bring to your
attention and that is the problem in-
volved in the misuse of production.
I realize again that in periods of rigid
price control it is very difficult to
get the manufacturer into the free
market. Nevertheless, we know and
you know that a very large number
of manufacturers is utilizing a portion
of their production to keep their labor
or to obtain greater prices through
illegal distribution than is possible
under the controlled prices which
govern the normal distribution, This
results in inequitable distribution and
uneven utilization of resources to
help a privileged few and breaks
down the entire structure.

I urge you to establish, ad-
ministrative controls which will en-
able the closing of such plants and
to make sure that the production
which does come out of such plants
is distributed for the benefit of all
the German people, Above all, I urge
you to work together and not to say
that this is the fault of each other,
of the bizonal agencies, of the non-
cooperation of the several Laender,
or of the requirements of Military
Government, There is a way out of
your present economic conditions
and the more you cooperate the
quicker you will find that way.

Liberalization of Education

I want to repeat that I have not
said this is criticism, I know that
the problems involved are complicat-
ed and difficult of solution. It is
the desire of Military Government to
help and cooperate with you in this
field in every way it possibly can.

Finally, my last subject is one that
is as much a Land as a Laenderrat
subject. Having had a reason earlier
to express my satisfaction and pride
in Bavaria, this time I am afraid I am
going to be a little bit the other way
in respect to Bavaria. We had asked
and received from each of the Laen-
der their proposals for the liber-

(Continued on Page 16)

19 MAY 1947

--- Page 10 ---
| Germans—an historian, two
philosophers, and a sociologist—
recently have written books released
by US-licensed publishing houses dis-
cussing phases of Germany's past
which should be of great value to
those persons interested in the Ger-
man mind and history.

Die Schuldfrage (The Question of
Guilt) by Karl Jaspers, a professor of
philosophy at Heidelberg, is the most
comprehensive and intelligent trea-
tise on the collective guilt thesis to
date. In this booklet the author
distinguishes among four different
types of guilt: criminal, political,
moral, and metaphysical. The supreme
judges to decide about the amount of
guilt and punishment in the case of
criminal guilt are the law courts; in
the case of political guilt, the vic-
torious powers; in the case of moral
guilt, the individual's own conscience;
and in the case of metaphysical guilt,
God alone.

Politically Liable

Jaspers states that no matter
whether all Germans are politically
guilty, they are politically liable
With painstaking deliberation Jaspers
takes up every single aspect of the
guilt complex; he also touches on the
guilt of the Allies, but he finds strong
and eloquent words to warn the
reader not to dodge his own soul-

19 MAY 1947

searching by accusing the accuser.
The Nuremberg trial is viewed as a
most encouraging symptom of an ex-
periment in international cooperation
and law. Jaspers' search for truth
and his very great sense of dif-
ferentiation are remarkable because
of their unsparingness.

The concluding chapter of the book
is entitled “Our Purification." “Neither
subservient confessions of guilt nor
spiteful pride can be our attitude to-
ward the victorious powers. Punish-
ment can be expiated and political
liability can be fixed by a peace
treaty and thus be brought to an end.
But moral and metaphysical guilt
cannot be expiated. They never cease
to exist. He who endures them will
undergo a process lasting his whole
lifetime. Without the way of purifi-
cation out of the depth of the guilty
conscience, no truth can be realized

. humility and moderation are our
share."

Die Deutsche Katastrophe (The
German Catastrophe) was written by
the 84-year-old historian Friedrich
Meinecke, recipient of an honorary
degree from Harvard University. The
circumstances under which this book
was produced are typical of the
handicaps under which present-day
German authors have to labor: with-
out a library, notes, or access to any
other source material. The nearly-

7

blind historian wrote his book in a
farmhouse where he had sought
refuge at the end of the war. He
belongs to the school of “classical
liberal’ Prussian historians of the last
century.

Wrecked by Hitler

Meinecke views the Nazi movement
as a synthesis of the two most
dynamic waves surging over the
civilized world in the 19th century,
the nationalist and the socialist
wave. The success of this synthesis
was wrecked by Hitler's lack of
moderation.

The writer, however, does not
dwell nearly long and thoroughly
enough on the complete and _ per-
nicious corruption and distortion of
both the nationalist and socialist
wave by Hitler and fails to broach
the important question: How was it
possible that Hitlerism crushed
Marxism in Germany and yet is
depicted as having arrived at a
synthesis...of the two waves?

Once a great admirer of Bismarck,
Meinecke still maintains that Bis-
marck was able to bring about a
harmony of “might and mind,’ even
though the seeds for ruthless power
politics and Prussian militarism were
planted and cultivated under his
tule. Meinecke has some penetrating
things to say about Prussian power

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
politics: he believes Bismarck and
the German bourgeoisie elevated Bis-
marck’s Machiavellian “Realpolitik”
to a metaphysical principle and thus,
contrary to current belief, it became
devoid of genuine political realism.

The author does not believe, that
Hitler's rise to power was inevitable.
He sees historical ‘accidents’ at
work in at least two instances before
1933. He believes that Hindenburg,
Hugenberg, and Schleicher were to
a large extent responsible for Hitler's
advent. While advocating a break
with Germany's militarist tradition,
the writer does not, however, shrink
from saying: “Once again, a good
guiding spirit seemed to be leading
the German people. That was when
the First World War broke out. The
spiritual upsurge in the August days
of 1914 is for all who were witnesses
of one of the everlasting memories
of the highest order.”

Burnt-out Crater

Meinecke, who views Germany as
“a burnt-out crater of great power
politics,” believes that the power
of a future Germany will not rise
beyond that of the small nations like
Holland, Belgium, or Sweden. Ger-
many's mission lies in the conser-
vation and revitalization of its cul-
tural achievements. All Meinecke
has to suggest in practical terms,
beyond the usual demands for
federalism and a “United States of
Europe,” is the creation of Goethe
societies to recite Goethe’s poetry
and thus bring to the German people
consolation and re-orientation in the
form of its classical literature.

All in all, this is the book of a
very old man of _ considerable
historical knowledge. Meinecke’s
views are at once conservative and
liberal; he manages to correct some
of his historical insights previously
gained, but he fails to explore fully
the economic causes for Hitlerism
and the reasons for the failure of the
Weimar Republic.

Zu Deutschlands Schicksalswende
(On Germany's Crossroad of Destiny)
is the title of a collection of lectures
and speeches made by Prof. Julius
Ebbinghaus, former professor of
philosophy and president of Marburg
University, on various occasions. The
seven highly academic speeches deal

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

which the various

with national socialism and morality,
the new state and the new uni-
versity, nationalism and patriotism,
youth and fatherland, the power of
the state and the individual's respon-
sibility, the collective guilt thesis,
and solidarity and disagreements.

Although the occasions during
speeches were
delivered were of different character,
there is nevertheless an inner con-
nection between all of them. The
author in his foreword expressed the
hope that the ideas set forth in his
collection of speeches may help to
lead the German people back to the
theses of Kant “true teacher of
mankind whose heritage may deliver
the Germans from all misery the
roots of which lie in the erratic and
erroneous notions about the destiny
of man.”

Addressed to Students

Ebbinghaus discusses in his speeches
the essence of denazification, the
Nazis’ corruption of national moral-
ity, the ills and sins of blind
patriotism and nationalism, and the
mission of universities in a post-war
Germany. Most of the speeches are
directly or indirectly addressed to
the new generation of students whose
past ideals and idols, eloquently and
effectively projected against the back-
ground of Kant’s philosophy, are
proved to be morally untenable and
nationally unjustifiable.

The author's. uncompromising in-
sistence on law, justice, and “spiritual
disarmament” essentially contributed
to his unpopularity among the mem-
bers of the faculty: he was not re-
elected president of Marburg Uni-
versity.

Der SS-Staat (The SS State) by
Eugen Kogon carries the subtitle
“The System of German Concen-
tration Camps.” Kogon is a Viennese
sociologist of strong Catholic lean-
ings. He is active and prominent in
leftist CDU circles of Hesse. Kogon
is presently the licensee of a monthly
magazine called Frankfurter Heite.

Kogon accomplishes what all other
authors have neglected. He presents
an wealth of authentic material.
Documents, orders, charts, blueprints
on Nazism's most sinister and de-
structive side—the SS in the con-

8

centration camps—are abundant in
his book. He furnishes the reader
with a profound analysis of the
structure and the practices of the SS
in the camps. He cites facts and _
figures and sources; he describes the
history and pattern of the camps; he
portrays the depraved way of the
life of the SS guards; he describes
their scientific system of torture and
torture in the service .of medical
science; he dwells on the political,
criminal, national, and racial com-
position of the camp inmates, their
warfare, solidarity, intrigues, and
tragedies.

Seven Years in Buchenwald

Kogon brings to his talks the equip-
ment of a sociologist and the astonish-
ing capability of a patient (he him-
self spent seven years in Buchenwald)
to describe the process and progress
of an operation performed on his
own body without loss of conscious-
ness. The result is a most compelling
sociological, psychological, and crim-
inological study of the Nazis pattern
of terror and torture.

The inescapable conclusion the
intelligent reader draws from this
work is that the composition and
climate of the camps is but a micro-
cosm of what was true for Germany
as a whole: a suicidal and infernal
struggle for the survival of the fittest
—in many cases the worst types. It
is clear that in such a struggle
oppressors and oppressed are van-
quished alike.

Kogon blames Allied propaganda
techniques and German mental re-
sistance—the latter not necessarily
caused by the former—for the failure
of penetrating and rousing national
consciousness of the Germans to the
horrors and lessons of the camps.
Because the Allies linked the col-
lective guilt thesis with the camp
atrocities, Kogon writes, the vast
majority of the Germans defended
themselves by saying, “We cannot
be called guilty of happenings of
which we were ignorant.’ The chance
to turn the atrocities, their reality,
scope, and frequency, into a moral
lesson for the Germans has been
missed so far. And Kogon concludes
that Germany’s moral regeneration
has become that much more difficult
because of it.

19 MAY 1947

--- Page 12 ---
,

JUVENILE
DETENTION HOME

sociologists would consider a car-
dinal sin against society was commit-
ted regularly in Berlin: juvenile delin-
quents were sent to local jails where
they associated with hardened crimi-
nals and followed no educational, re-
creational, or vocational program of
any kind. Because of the lack of
homes for young offenders in the city,
overcrowded jails were used where
beds were insufficient and the boys
were forced to sleep on the floor.

il November 1946, an act which

Juvenile delinquency had increased
materially by 1946 over the prewar
years. In 1938, the Juvenile Courts
and the Public Welfare Office handled
6,108 cases, while in 1946 there were
17,562 boys and girls 14 years and
over who had committed delinquent
acts. In one of the smallest boroughs
of the US Sector of Berlin, the num-
ber of offenses by juveniles increased
from 46 in 1938, to 150 in 1946. Since
the number of juveniles in the bor-
ough was half as large in 1946 as in
1938, the juvenile delinquency rate

was actually six times as great as in
the earlier year.

Ample Space for Activities

To relieve this problem of delin-
quency and rehabilitation, a Juvenile
Detention Home was established at
the direction of the Director of Mili-
tary Government, Berlin Sector, under
the direct supervision of the Public
Welfare Branch, The best available
site was a former civilian internees
camp in Lichterfelde West. Consider-
able repairs were necessary to make
the nine barracks habitable, but the
grounds—a full city-block square—
afforded ample space for gardening
and outdoor recreational activities.
Emphasis was placed on social reha-
bilitation rather than punishment, and
the German Public Welfare Depart-
ment was made responsible for the
operation of the Home,

On 5 November 1946 the Home was
opened and the first child placed in
the Institution. Only one of the bar-
racks had been restored and furnished

Scene of the Juvenile Detention Home at a former civilian internees camp in

Lichterfelde West, Berlin.

Photo by Bowlds, PRO, OMGUS

at that time. As other buildings were
reconstructed and equipped the num-
ber of boys in the Home increased.
By the enid of November 60 juveniles
were at the Home; on 30 April 1947
the number had jumped to 158. Six
barracks are now in full use.

The Detention Home is used for
delinquent juvenile boys between the
ages of 14 and 18 arrested by the
German police or US Military Police
for crimes committed in the US Sector.
Although it was originally intended
that younger boys and girls also
would be placed in the Home, it has
become more feasible to restrict its
use to older boys. A separate insti-
tution for delinquent girls and youn-
ger boys is to be opened this month
in the US Sector,

Economic Need as Motive

Of the 126 youths sent to the Home
during March, 76 were arrested by
the MG authorities and 50 by the
German authorities. The offenses
were largely crimes against property
and the motive in the majority of
cases was economic need. Of the
youths sentenced, approximately 53
percent came from homes where the

see

--- Page 13 ---
normal parental influence was lack-
ing, the father in each case being out
of the home. A few of the children
have neither parents nor home.

Since its establishment, MG Courts
have used the Institution to the
fullest possible extent. On the other
hand, there was considerable resis-
tance on the part of the German
judges and law enforcement officers
because the Welfare Department
rather than the courts has respon-
sibility for the operation of the Home.

Instead of issuing a direct order
to the German authorities, the MG
Legal Branch began an educational
campaign to encourage the German
legal staff to recognize themselves
the advantage of the Home and its
administration. This approach has
been successful. The German law
enforcement officers are now sending
juveniles to the Detention Home pend-
ing trial, and the time spent in the
Institution is credited to the delin-
quents. German judges also are sen-
tencing juveniles to a period of reha-
bilitation in the Home rather than to
jail. Both these practices are legal
under the law currently in effect (the
Reichsjugendgerichtsgesetz of 1923).

At the Home, a formal education
program is conducted by qualified

(Left) Youth at the Home taking ad-
vantage of the books in the library.
(Right) Boy receiving medical atten-
tion at the Home's infirmary.

Photos by Bowlds, PRO, OMGUS

teachers. Elementary subjects as well
as cultural courses are taught. In-
struction also is given in handicraft,
carpentry, and gardening. Arrange-
ments have been made for bringing
the necessary machinery and teachers
to establish a brush factory in one of
the shops on the premises. A small
library containing 150 volumes of
children's books, US magazines, and
some of the Armed Forces Editions in
English can be read in the library or
loaned out.

All the boys are engaged in physi-
cal labor or are in class for eight
hours a day. The older boys spend all
but ten hours of this time each week
on work projects. The damaged build-
ings, beds, tables, chairs, and the
bomb debris about the premises is an
ample source of employment for a
considerable time, In addition to the
maintenance of the Institution, build-
ings, and grounds there are laundry
and other services that must be pro-
vided.

The leisure time of the boys is filled
with a variety of activities. Chess,
checkers, cards, and other quiet and
more active games can be played in
the recreation hall. American equip-
ment is on hand for outdoor sports;
the most popular outdoor games at
present are soccer, baseball, handball,
and medicine ball. The team of the
Institution recently was invited by
the US Army to participate in a base-
ball match in Madison Square. US
soldiers of the 111th Truck Company
also go to the Home from time to

time to play with the boys and teach
them American sports.

Church Services Provided

A program of mental therapy also
is in effect. Regular group discussions
are held. A Hans Sachs play .was
produced for the recent Spring Festi-
val. And in their spare time some of
the boys made a replica of their bar-
tacks to be presented as a gift to the
American juvenile judge as a token
of their respect for him, Recently a
choir was organized. Protestant reli-
gious services are held regularly in
the small chapel in one of the barracks,
while Catholic boys are taken to a
Catholic church for Sunday services.

Sunday also is the day for visit-
ing. Parents and other adult friends
are permitted to visit the boys for
half an hour. The visiting rooms are
comfortable and afford privacy.
Parents may even bring food to the
boys, but only in quantities that can
be eaten during the visit, At the
Home the boys are given food ration
card No, 2 and all meals are served
in individual rooms from a central
kitchen. From a nutritional standpoint
the boys are as well or better off
than the average child in Germany
today. When questioned on the sub-
ject of food the boys unanimously
have expressed satisfaction. Several
of the youths gained as much as 10
pounds during the first month of con-
finement.

On the whole, health is good,
partly due to a preventive medicine

--- Page 14 ---
program. A physician visits the Home
semi-weekly and is on call at all
times. Newly-arrived boys are given
a medical examination and thereafter
are examined each four weeks. In
case of serious illness the patient is
transferred to the prison section of
the City Hospital. The dentist makes
weekly calls, After the initial exami-
nation, six-week checks are given
each youth. One ‘six-room barracks
has been made into an infirmary
under the administration of a full-
time nurse. The infirmary consists of
first-aid room, nurse's office, exami-
nation room, and three room for
patients confined to bed. Of these,
one will be used. for contagious
cases. Monthly visits to the Institution
are made by a barber. One of the
boys with training in this work gives
additional service when needed. Per-
sonal counseling is done by the
Director and the Assistant Director
individually and in groups.

Corporal Penalty Barred

The high morale of the Home is
perhaps due to the fact that members
take part in administering discipline
to themselves. The boys are divided
into small groups, each with a chair-
man (a member of the group) and a
supervisor (a member of the staff).
Violations of a minor nature are dealt
with by these group councils. House
penalties, such as denying the
offender dessert or sending him to
bed early, have been effective in most
cases. No corporal punishment is
imposed and punishment of any kind
must be approved by the Director or
Assistant Director.

The juveniles placed in the Home
are classified into three groups, New
arrivals are segregated from the
others until the medical examination,
social history, and psychological study
are made to determine what special
treatment is advisable. In the same
barracks—though separated from
the rewcomers—are the youths con-
sidered the greatest escape risks. The
second group are employed in labor
groups all over the premises and at
the same time may be given instruc-
tion in carpentry, gardening, and
other practical vocations. Group three
are those being prepared for leaving
the Detention Home and re-entering

19 MAY 1947

Interns Get Year Training

Tren, American college gra-
duates, many of them war veter-

ans, are undergoing a year's training
under the supervision of the Personnel
Office, OMGUS, in the European
Theater toward the goal of assuming
career positions with the Office of
Military Government for Germany
(US).

MG internships are being given by

the War Department to a total of 100 -

specially-qualified college men, pre-
ferably World War II veterans, who
have expressed a desire to serve Mi-
litary Government in the US Zone of
Germany. The remaining 76 interns
are expected to arrive in the theater
in the near future.

Under the Personnel Office program,
their classrooms are the MG offices
and divisions in Berlin and the
US Zone, and their instructors the
officials themselves. Emphasis is
being placed on developing within
each intern a broad over-all under-
standing of the policies and functions
of Military Government and, at the
same time, a thorough understanding
of the relationship between OMGUS
headquarters and Land field offices
and of the problems encountered in
the field.

the outside world. They are assigned
private rooms in the Director's build-
ing, are given greater freedom of
Movement, and are frequently
enrolled in apprentice training outside
the Institution. They may even attend
public school, but all must return to
the Home each night. Each youth must
prove himself reliable and have a
record of good behavior before be-
coming eligible for this category.

At the outset the percentage of
escapes from the Home was high.
Between 20 November and 10 De-
cember when the maximum number
in the Home was 56 there were 31
escapes, Beginning in January, as
morale rose in the Institution, the
number dropped considerably. In the
month of January there were three
escapes; in February, two; in March,
none; in April, three.

11

The 24 trainees were originally
assigned to divisions for specialized
training. Under the current rotation
program the interns will remain in
Berlin for three months, for assign-
ment with various OMGUS operating
sections, including Berlin Sector. The
next two months will be spent with
Land field detachments, and then three
months with Land headquarters be-
fore returning to Berlin where the
final.four months of training will be
devoted to a specific division and
branch.

The head of each executive and
functional office and operational divi-
sion in OMGUS and the Land head-
quarters is appointing a responsible
official in his unit to supervise the
activities of the interns during their
attachment to the respective unit.
The official is responsible for the in-
tern in order to accomplish the fol-
lowing:

1. Instruction in policy and major
functions of the unit and its specified
branches.

2. Work assignments on current
projects of definite training value.
This will preclude assignment to rou-
tine tasks having little or no training
value.

3. Rotation of the intern within the
unit.

4. Necessary entries on the intern’s
qualification card, which will trace
his progress throughout the training
program.

At the conclusion of the trial
training period, successful candidates
will be given permanent MG appoint-
ments commensurate with their re-
spective capabilities and formal edu-
cational backgrounds.

The 100 interns range in age from
23 to 30. All applicants have com-
pleted their college training. The high
qualification standards set by the
War Department for acceptable in-
terns and the huge response from
college men desiring career positions
with Military Government was illu-
strated by the fact that from one uni-
versity 200 applications were received
by the War Department, of which
only two were accepted.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Anti-Semitism in Germany

nti-Semitism is still strong in Ger-
Arey, according to a recent sur-
vey conducted by the Public Opinion
Surveys Unit of the Research Branch,
Information Control Division, OMGUS.

Nationalistic sentiment among Ger-
mans has tended to increase in the
past eight months as indicated by
comparing figures on this attitude
with those compiled in a previous

survey. These conclusions were pred- -

icated upon interviews with 3,415
persons, selected scientifically as a
cross-section of the US Zone and
Berlin.

The study indicates that about four
in 10 persons in the zone can be said
to be seriously disposed to exhibit
racial prejudice. Another fifth of the
population while not exhibiting posi-
tive prejudice are negative in their
views and hence cannot be expected
to counter any expressions of anti-
Semitism.

The result of the survey which was
based on the answer to selected
questions enable a division of the
persons sampled into five groups:
those with little bias, 20 percent;
those who are nationalists, 19 percent;
those who are racists, 22 percent;
those who are anti-Semites, 21 per-
cent; and those who are intense anti-
Semites, 18 percent.

Many factors seem to influence the
formation of these attitudes. Sex
proved to be significant in measuring
anti-Semitism, since the women of the
zone are markedly more biased than
the men. Locality also influenced pre-
judice; small-town people were found
to be more biased than those from
large cities. Bavaria as a Land dis-
played the least bias (though Munich
has a much greater percentage of
anti-Semites than any of the other
cities sampled), with Wuerttemberg-
Baden the worst, and Hesse not far
ahead.

According to the survey, “neither
service in the Wehrmacht nor mem-
bership in the NSDAP has much bear-
ing on the degree of anti-Semitism.
Nor are people who grew up under
the Nazi regime much more preju-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

diced than people who were adults
when Hitler came to power. On the
whole, attitudes toward this problem
seem to become fixed before the eigh-
teenth year.

“In general, it was found that pre-
judice toward Jews was greater
among people with a lower status in
society, those with the least education
and those with unspecialized jobs.
Religious and political affiliations
were also shown to affect attitudes.
Protestants tended to be more biased
than Catholics, but in both groups
those who attended church regularly
were shown to be more prejudiced
than those who attended irregularly.

“Another factor of some importance
in its bearing on anti-Semitism is so-
cial and political apathy. There is no
question but that the most prejudiced
are also the least critical, the least
well informed, and the least interested
in political affairs and problems. It
cannot be determined whether this
group insulates itself from ideas and
the critical approach because they
wish to nurse their prejudices or
whether they are prejudiced because
they are isolated from the world of
ideas. However, the fact is that this
apathy and prejudice go hand in hand.
Bigoted people in Germany are not
only unfavorably disposed toward
Jews more frequently than other citi-
zens but tend to hold more un-
favorable opinions on such topics as
denazification.”

The survey emphasizes that “the
elimination of anti-Semitism is a
long-range problem. The fact that
people of better education tend to
have relatively less racial prejudice
than the uneducated is important, for
it shows the way in which the prob-
lem must be met. The school, where
much of critical opinion is first formed,
is the place for combating prejudice
of all kinds, and this is no less the
case when the problem is anti-
Semitism. A positive and well-directed
effort to teach racial tolerance in
German schools should do much to
eliminate the problem over a period
of years.”

12

Long-range Education
Program Held Essential

Dr.R. Thomas Alexander, for many
years a professor at Columbia Uni-
versity, has been appointed Acting
Chief, Education and Religious Af-
fairs Branch, IA&C Division, OMGUS.
Dr. Alexander is responsible for the
formulation of policy in German edu-
cation and is in charge of all phases
of MG program for the re-education
in the US Zone,

In assuming his position, Dr. Alex-
ander stated: "It has always been
realized by Military Government that
the re-education of Germany is a
long-range job which may take gene-
rations to accomplish. However, it
must also be realized that this pro-
gram will succeed only if it has the
support of each and every person en-
gaged in the occupation. One thought-
less and irresponsible act by an indi-
vidual or group of Americans can
undo re-education which took months
or even years to accomplish.

“The re-education of Germany is
not the job of a few men and women
but one of the primary responsibilities
of all occupational personnel. Such
support in thought, word, and deed is
as vitally needed as material support
of the youth activities program and
an understanding of the problems
which will have to be met and solved
if Germany is to be made over into
a peace-loving nation.

“However, the support of the occu-
pational personnel is not the final so-
lution to this problem, In order to
help the German re-educate themsel-
ves we must have the support of
American educational forces. We need
help from outside not only in the
form of intellectual understanding but
in the material froms books, papers,
and modern instructional aids. The
re-education of Germany is the first
experiment of its kind in history, and
it must be successful. It cannot and
will not be successful unless it is sup-
ported by every member of the occu-
pational forces with the help of the
societies of teachers and educational
experts back home.”

19 MAY 1947

--- Page 16 ---
Marshall's Appraisal

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
carried a penetrating editorial analy-
sis of the report by Secretary of State
Marshall to the American people on
the results of the Moscow Conference.
It said:

“None of the responsible men,
either in Moscow or in the Western
Hemisphere, thinks of war. Each of
them knows that a new total war
would lead, of necessity, to the total
destruction of mankind. The statement
of the American Secretary of State is
designed to give us the reassuring
certainty that there is a thitd way;
that the disagreements about peace
must neither remain at a total impasse
nor be solved with methods of vio-
lence. This third way lies in the
realm of power politics and is nothing
more than the stubborn and persistent
employment of political and ideolo-
gical potential through peaceful
‘means...

“Finally, let us not forget that
according to Marshall's clear words the
peace for Germany, and that means
for Europe and the world, can en-
dure only if it creates a just solution
for all participants, victors and con-
quered. It is America’s clear desire
to set up a fair boundary between
Germany and Poland, ‘in which a de-
mocratic Poland and a democratic
Germany will live as good neighbors.’

“Here, too, the last word has not
been heard. We can now draw new
courage. We may cherish the con-
viction that America will not lose
sight of the entity of the indivisible
world and will draw upon all the
means within its power to achieve for
tortured and confused mankind an
age of peace and convalescence.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung said: “The
ultimate test for the world and for
Germany is not decided, as pessimists
might perhaps believe. It is probable
that the termination of a state of
suspense, which cannot possibly last
forever, might turn out well for us

19 MAY 1947

and even for the Eastern Zone. A Ger-
many tentatively divided into two
halves will become the experimental
area of two contradictory economic
systems.

“That is not a very pleasant situa-
tion as a whole, but is perhaps a fruit-
ful one. They could compete in work-
ing, building, and compensating past
injustices according to varying prin-
ciples. They would thus arrive at
better results than by merely disput-
ing principles: the question of man-
kind, limitation of private rights
against social or political ones, which
has not been solved satisfactorily by
either the capitalistic or the anti-
capitalistic sphere.”

The Nuernberger Nachrichten (Nu-
remberg) made a thorough appraisal
of Germany after the Moscow Con-
ference and deplored particularly the
resigned attitude of the population.
It also feared that the division at
Moscow will lead to a division of
Germany, which it considers dis-
astrous. It added:

“Moscow has revealed that, at least
for the time being, we live in a ‘Di-
vided world’ until late autumn when
the foreign ministers meet again. Dan-
gerous apathy will have time to
spread until then. It will be linked
with indifference which will prove to
be disastrous in our situation.

“The German situation is by no
means hopeful. It must have become
obvious to even the most unconcerned
among the Germans that the con-
sequences of our defeat are being felt
more and more every month, without
our being able to evade them...

“We consider the greatest danger
to lie in the fact that a final division
of Germany is now more likely than
ever. Many Germans do not want to
face this danger at the moment be-
cause it is still disguised by the
memory of the former state of unity
and by the sovereign position of the
Control Council that extends over the
whole Reich territory.”

13

Wiesbadener Kurier the German ten-
dency to return invariably to old
tradition after each catastrophe.

“It is not true that the burnt child
dreads the fire," Kloeck began. “No
more than the moth dreads the flame
which burns its wings.”

“Tt must seem strange that the con-
servative can conceive of no other
movement than that which leads back
to the starting-point (of the slide). But
action, for all too many, is always
reaction. For most, it would be better
to remain static.”

He pointed out how the slide oper-
ates, moving Germany back to the
days of 1918:

“What happened in Germany is
dreadful. But there were decent Ger-
mans...’ Certainly. Who can deny
that? — But after a while we find
that really the great majority of Ger-
mans was decent. Later, the idea is
crystallized that, all in all, there was
only a handful of criminals. The mass
of the people was undeniably inno-
cent. Still later? ‘Criminal? The others
were also no saints...’ Leading poli-
ticians now speak again of a ‘just
peace’ but by no means of a ‘merciful’
peace. No German statesman will
sign an unjust peace dictate! For to
be treated unjustly is as atrocious
to a German as to act unjustly him-
self! What's more, the ground for a
coming conflict is simply being pre-
pared, unless...”

Hope in Work

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Re-
gensburg) carried a May Day editorial
which, like many others newspapers,
looked for some ray of hope, and
stressed the saving grace of work
and the value of freedom:

“Today the German people cele-
brate May Day under a new sign, in
an entirely different world. Non-poli-
tical and neutral trade unions have
been created again. Class hatred has
spent itself as a result of the total

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
impoverishment of large parts of the
population as a consequence of the
totally lost war... We shall not
despair... What infused our people
with pride and joy when they cele-
brated May Day in former centuries is
still ours today: the strength of our
hands, the insight and the inven-
tiveness of our brains, and our
hearts’ belief in the recovery of our
people.”

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung also
dwelled on the importance of work
to help Germany. It criticized espe-
cially those who shirk work because
the money they earn is worth so
little: “To the degree that work is
honored, laziness must be condemned.
It is the purpose of the workers’
holiday to make the demands of the
working people a hymn of praise for
work.”

The paper deplored that recent war
experiences have not aroused the
pacifist emotions of the people enough
to cry for “No more war”.

Wishes of People

The Schwaebische Donau-Zeitung
(Ulm) in discussing the question of
of a party press said:

“The representatives of the licensed
press are not opposed to party papers
on principle. They have repeatedly
expressed that opinion, for instance,
at their meeting in Garmisch-Parten-
kirchen last December. They realize
that, because of the paper shortage,
the parties cannot always be granted
the amount of space necessary to
represent their just interests. But the
wishes of the population should be
considered... Several papers in the
US Zone conducted polls in order to
determine public opinion on this
question. The result has always been
a clear desire for keeping the above-
party press.”

The paper announced the following
results on its own poll, which was
answered by 2,172 subscribers: “90.8
percent prefer continuation of the pre-
sent above-party press, and only 5.9
percent want the above-party press
to be replaced by a party press. 16.8
percent would like to have the indivi-
dual parties issue their own paper in
addition to above-party papers.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Regulations for Auto Sale

weeping regulations governing the

sale, transfer, and registration of
motor vehicles in the four Laender
comprising the US Zone of Germany
and the American Sector of Berlin
were promulgated simultaneously by
EUCOM and OMGUS.

The regulations are aimed at safe-
guarding the German economy from
the loss of motor vehicles through
sales to foreign interests and prevent-
ing profiteering in transactions involv-
ing motor vehicles by insuring that
purchases are made for use and not
for resale, At the same time, the
blanket ban against the purchase,
sale, pledge, transfer, barter, or other
disposition of a motor vehicle, in ef-
fect since 31 March 1947, was lifted.

The OMGUS regulations are con-
tained in MG Ordinance No. 13, which
applies to all persons within the US
area of control not subject to military
law. The EUCOM restrictions supple-
ment the ordinance by imposing sub-
stantially identical prohibitions upon
persons subject to military law.

Ordinanca No. 13 divides all per-
sons, governments, and businesses in
the US area of control into two clas-
ses—domestic interests and foreign
interests. Domestic interests include
all German residents, businesses, and
governmental agencies, as well as dis-
placed persons and foreign nationals
who are living in the German econo-
my and have been within the US area
of control for more than one year.
Foreign interests comprise all other
persons, businesses, and foreign gov-
ernments, except persons subject to
US military law.

The ordinance does not apply to
transactions between domestic in-
terests. However, all transactions in
motor vehicles between domestic in-
terests and foreign interests are pro-
hibited unless licensed by Military
Government.

Transactions between foreign in-
terests in motor vehicles which have
been owned at any time by a dome-
stic interest are also prohibited, ex-
cept those vehicles which are ob-
tained through proper Army procure-
ment channels, which are authorized
German exports or which are regi-

14

stered under the EUCOM Vehicle and
Traffic Code,

These prohibited transactions may
be licensed by the Directors of the
Land Offices of Military Government
or the Office of Military Government
for Berlin Sector if the foreign in-
terests concerned are living or en=
gaging in business or the practice of
professions in the German economy.

The ordinance imposes two addi-
tional restrictions. UF citizens within”
the US area of control are prohibited
from engaging in transactions in mo-
tor vehicles with persons not US citi-
zens or foreign corporations whose
principal place of business is not in
the United States. Such transactions
may be licensed, however, if the US
citizen is living in the German econo-
my, if the vehicle concerned is not
located within the US area of control
or is registered under the EUCOM
Vehicle and Traffic Code.

The second additional prohibition
prevents a foreign interest from en-
gaging in a transaction involving any
motor vehicla which has been acqui-
red in or imported into the US area
of control within six months after the
importation or acquisition. In the
event the foreign interest is leaving
the area permanently within this six
months’ period or a serious emer-
gency requires disposition of the ve-
hicle, the transaction may be licensed.

Finally, German authorities are pro-
hibited from registering in the name
of a foreign interest any motor ve-
hicle formerly owned by a domestic
interest unless written approval of
Military Government to the trans-
action is presented.

Location with APO

Beginning 1 June, all official corre-
spondence must show the geographi-
cal location and APO number on
letterheads and on envelopes. This
information will also be given pre-
ceding the date line in indorsements.
An example of this is the following:
“Office of Military Government for
Germany (US), Berlin, Germany, APO
742, US Army.”

19 MAY 1947

--- Page 18 ---
IMT Decree Excludes
Some from Amnesties

The so-called youth and Christmas
amnesties do net apply to members
of any organization found to be cri-
minal by the International Military
Tribunal. Officers of Public Safety
Branch, IA&C Division, OMGUS, sta-
ted that persons in the following ca-
tegories are excluded from these am-
nestie:

1, All persons who have been
Reichsleiter, Gauleiter, Kreisleiter,
Ortsgruppenleiter, or Amtsleiter on
the staffs of the Reichsleitung, Gau-
leitung, or Kreisleitung who were
appointed to or remained in such po-
sitions on or after 1 September 1939.

2. All persons officially accepted
as members of the Schutzstaffel (SS)
and members of the police force who
were members of the SS, but exclud-
ing persons who were members only
of the SS Riding Units, those who
were drafted into membership by the
state in such manner as to give them
no choice in the matter, and those
who had ceased to serve in the SS
prior to 1 September 1939.

3. All members of the Sicherheits-
dienst (SD) with the exception of
members of the Abwehr (counter-in-
telligence) who were transferred into
the SD and those who had ceased to
serve in the SD prior to 1 September
1939,

4. All membres of the Gestapo ex-
cept: those employed in clerical, jani-
torial, or similar unofficial, routine
tasks, Border Protection Personnel,
or Secret Field Police unless they
were also members of another section
of the Gestapo, and those who ceased
to serve in the Gestapo prior to 1 Sep-
tember 1939.

Pointing out that the International
Military Tribunal ruled that member-
ship in the Political Leadership Corps,
SD, and Gestapo was at all times
voluntary and that membership in the
SS was entirely voluntary until 1940,
the officials stated that the trials of
members of criminal organizations
will be entrusted to the public pro-
secutors and tribunals established un-
der the Law for Liberation from Na-
tional Socialism and Militarism. In

19 MAY 1947

Scene of Restitution

Neuschwanstein, Romantic palace built in 1869—86 for King Ludwig II
of Bavaria, is the site of important restitution of cultural treasures
since the war. The palace, which suffered no war damage, was one of
the most important repositories of the Einsatzstab Rosenberg, including
some of the finest of the Rothschild holdings, There were also a few
Munich and Ansbach items recovered there, In three months in 1945
nearly 6,000 items were restituted from Neuschwanstein to Paris,

these trials procedural and substan-
tive provisions of the law will apply
insofar as they are consistent with
the findings of the International Mi-
litary Tribunal.

If in their trials former members of
these criminal organizations are found
to be followers or lesser offenders,
such findings will not exempt the re-
spondents from the sanctions pro-
vided by the law.

15

Expedite Requests

Liaison and Security Officers are
instructed by OMGUS to expedite the
applications of fiancees to go to the
United States, and to see that these
applications reach the Combined
Travel Board by 30 May. Law No. 471
expires 30 June 1947 and all approved
fiancee applicants should be in the
United States by that time.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTION

Organization, Command, and Ad-
ministration of Military Districts in
the US Zone of Germany and the
Bremen Enclave, AG 322 GCT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 5 April 1947. Amends
USFET letter of 31 January 1947.

Training for German Employees,
AG 230.033 GAP-AGE, Hq EUCOM,
14 April 1947, OMGUS indorsement
says an instructors manual is being
prepared,

Quotas for Recreation Areas, Gar-
misch and Berchtesgaden, AG 354.1
SPP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 16 April 1947.
Adds American Red Cross personnel
to previous letter of 24 March 1947.

Salaries of Indigenous Personnel,
Army Motion Picture Theaters, AG
230 GCT-AGE, Hq EUCOM, 17 April
1947, Provides interim regulations
pending amendment to SOP 84,

Authorized WAC Personnel for
Major Commands in European Com-
mand, AG 322 (WAC) GAP-AGP-B,
Hq EUCOM, 17 April 1947, Replaces
USFET letter of 10 January 1947.

Application of War Department
Orders “T’—Non Support of Depen-
dents, AG 230.74 GAP-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 21 April 1947. Quotes

directive concerning debt complaints.

against WD civilian employees. _

Army Exchange Service Procure-
ment of Special Services Equipment
for Posts and Units, AG 400.12 SSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 April 1947.
Replaces letter Hq ETO, AG 400.312
OpGA, of 4 June 1945.

Preparation of Estemate of Obli-
gations (Fund Requirements) for the
First Quarter, Fiscal Year 1948, AG
121.2 BFD-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 23 April
1947, Covers appropriated and indi-
genous fund requirements by appro-
priation, sub-appropriation and pro-
ject classification, and sets forth the
manner and form in which the
estimates are to be presented to the
Office of the Deputy Budget and
Fiscal Director, Hq EUCOM. Estimates
to be submitted to OMGUS for for-
warding must arrive at OMGUS by
26 May 1947,

Ammunition in Hands of Troops,
AG 471 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
24 April 1947, Replaces USFET letters
of 17 October and 4 November 1946.
Includes form for monthly report.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Emergency Return of Dependents,
AG 292 GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
24 April 1947, Replaces USFET letter
AG 230 GAP-APO of 11 October 1946,
Cites provisions for cases of marital
estrangement.

Equipment Authorized by Tables of
Organization and Equipment, AG
400.34. GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
25 April 1947. Requires the turning-
in of camouflage nets and sets before
1 June,

Circular No. 22, Hq EUCOM,
25 April 1947. Section I, Marriage,
amends USFET Cir 181 of 1946 as to
authority to approve or disapprove
applications for permission to marry
Germans. Section II, Rations and
Messing, amends USFET Cir 131 of
1946 as to “cook's work sheet’ with
form as Annex R. Section III, Procure-
ment, Distribution, Rationing, and
Consumption of Class VI Supplies,
substitutes for Par 5d, EUCOM Cir 3
of 1947,

Plan for Reorganization of US
Forces in the European Command,
AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
30 April 1947, Concerns Medical Plan
as Appendix D to Annex No. 2.

She

Circular No. 23, Hq EUCOM, 1 May
1947, Section I, Uniform Regulations—
Military Personnel, rescinds Sec 1 of
USFET Cir 151 of 1946 and amends
parts of USFET Cir 10 of 1947.
Section II, Non-Expendable Organiza-
tional Equipment, lists classes of such
property that may be dropped from
property records on proper certificate.

Circular No. 24, Hq EUCOM, 2 May
1947, Section I, Aerial Dispersal cf
Insecticides, provides procedures for
utilization of aircrafts for insect
control projects. Section II, Rotation
of Military Personnel to the US,
rescinds Par 2k, USFET Cir 147 of
1946. Section III, Storage and Hand-
ling of Explosives and Ammunition,
rescinds Sec III, USFET Cir 26 of
1946 and requires strict compliance
with the provisions of the appro-
priate manuals on these operations.
Section IV, Transfer of Enlisted Per-
sonnel, rescinds Sec III, USFET Cir 29
and Sec IV, USFET Cir 106 of 1946,
and designates commanders author-
ized to make these transfers.

16

Downgrading of CCS Papers, AG
380.01 (SS), OMGUS, 5 -May.-1947.
Concerns CCS 697/3,

Military Government—Germany—
Ordinance No. 13, “Regulation of Sale.
Transfer, and Registration of Motor
Vehicles.” Attactied are copies of law
in. both English and German. (See
separate item page 14.)

Interzonal Travel of German Civil-*
ians, AG 200.4 (IA), OMGUS, 5 May‘
1947, Implements _ Control Council
Directive No. 49.

Correspondence with Allied Re-
presentatives, Staff Memo No. 22,
OMGUS, -7 May -1947. Lists correct

. grade, - official position, and address

of ranking Allied personnel of the
Occupying Powers in Germany.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

Laender Advised (Cont'd from p. 6)

alization of education. The proposals
of Wuerttemberg-Baden and Greater
Hessen would meet, I am sure, with
the satisfaction of all liberal edu-
cators everywhere. Bavaria prefers to
point out its contribution to the cul-
ture of the world under the system it
has always had. Bavaria can be proud
of the contribution which it has made
to the culture of the world.

Many civilizations which have liv-
ed in the past and contributed much
to the world because they lived in
the past have disappreared. I hope
that Bavaria is not revelling in re-
miniscenses of past glory, rather than
looking into the future. The future-
looking people of the world will
never be satisfied with an educational
system that does not offer to the
poorest child the same opportunity it
offers to the more fortunate child. I
would particularly urge that the
Education Minister of Bavaria attend
the educational meetings of the Laen-
derrat because I believe he would
have much to learn from his as-
sociates in Hesse and Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF