--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

hte!
Taree!

--- Page 3 ---
ogee
LAHNKREIS

FRIEOBERG
‘BODINGEN

GROSS~
GERAU!
DIEBURG

DARMSTAD’ :
BERGSTRASSE
\TAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM

PEORZHEIM

aes

BUBLINGEN |

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE = MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DRESDNER BANK—This view of a one-
time office of the bank in Berlin is typical
of such scenes throughout Germany—mute
evidence of the aftermath of the war which
it and the Deutsche Bank aided materially
in fostering and financing. An article de-
tailing these activities is printed on page 3.

(photo by BYERS)

INFORMATION

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Alice Hanson Cook, writer of the article
Workers’ Education, is special adviser to
Military Government on labor education.
Mrs. Cook spent two years in Germany be-
ore the war studying labor's educational
efforts.

The story of the Deutsche and Dresdner ; TABLE OF CONTENTS

Banks was written from material furnished
by the Finance Division, OMGUS. An ex- :
tensive documentation of this subject was Issue No. 99 30 June 1947
issued as an annex to the Military Gov-

emor’s Report No. 22,

Title 1 of the Military Government Re- Deutsche and Dresdner Banks . . . ..... 3
Bertin is the basis ue the operation = Workers. Education) 0 8 6 ree ae 5
Military Government in Germany. This ;
litle, ‘“‘“General Provisions,” was recently Germans Must Initiate Own Planning. . . 7
evised to include all developments and aS
thanges of the past year. The article, MGR Title 1 (First Installment) ........ 8
MGR Title 1, is the first of a series of four ‘ 2
nstallments giving the pertinent details of High Court Open in Hesse. . . . . . 2... fl
he Title.

ue US Proposal for Europe to Help Self . . ... . 12
Press and Radio:-Comments::* =. “753/23 ees

Red Cross: Help for Needy --. °.. 3s ot eg eed

EK German: Reactions. 5 9. 5202s ee

Official Instructions +. a a as ee

Issue 100, dated 7 July, of the. Weekly
Information Bulletin, will include articles on
he arrival of relief parcels into Germany,
lhe anniversary of the US Information Cen-
ers, and the idea of the German-American
Women’s Club in Stuttgart. The second in-
Slallment of MGR Title 1, dealing with
“Objectives and Principles of Military Gov-
ae will be printed, The issue will
“arry the monthly “Station List” of MG in- OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

Sallations in Germany. CONTROL OFFICE. APO 742. US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
EXPANSION OF DRESDNER oenmanx 1
BANK IN EUROPE .

WIT ZER-
LAND

Broken lines — prior to 1938 °
Full lines — after 1938

EXPANSION OF DEUTSCHE
BANK IN EUROPE

Broken lines — prior to 1938
Full lines = — after 1938

--- Page 6 ---
EUTSCHE and
RESDNER BANKS

N THE main street of practically

every ruined German town a
crumbled building can be seen, with
a battered sign on which can still be
spelled out “Deutsche Bank" or
“Dresdner Bank.’ There were 490
branches of the Deutsche Bank in
Germany alone, while the Dresdner
Bank had 368 branches, From hun-
dreds of broken windows these banks
can look at the destruction which
they played a vital part in bringing
to Germany.

There were six Big Banks in Ger-
many, and they were big in a way
in which we have no counterpart in
the United States, Their activities in-

They participated actively in building
the Nazi war-machine, and the exploi-
tation of German-occupied Europe.
In the years before the war these
two leading German banks expanded
steadily, first through absorption of
other banking institutions and second
through close cooperation with the po-
litical and economic expansionist pro-
gram of the German government.

[HE Deutsche Bank was founded in
1870, and the Dresdner Bank in 1872.
This was a period in German industry
which became known as the ‘found-
ers decade," during which numerous
large industrial and financial enter-

prises were born which set the pattern .
for subsequent big business in Ger-
many. Both the Deutsche and Dresd-
ner Bank soon began to take a lead-
ing part in financing German foreign
trade and created special subsidiary
banks for this purpose. In 1886 the
Deutsche Bank set up the Banco Ale-
man Transatlantico which gradually
added 21 branches in South America
and Spain, while the Dresdner Bank
established the Banco Aleman del
America del Sur, which acquired
14 branches.

As a joint project for financing Ger-
man business abroad Deutsche and
Dresdner sponsored the creation of the

cluded commercial and investment
banking, they were closely integrated
with industry and dominated the estab-
lished stock exchanges, and they
cooperated fully in carrying out the
political objectives of the Nazi Gov-
ernment,

Two of the Big Six, the Reichskre-
ditgesellschaft and the Berliner Han-
delsgesellschaft, had no _ branches.
Their influence was due to their cli-
entele of important industrial clients.
The Commerzbank was a powerful in-
stitution; the Bank der Deutschen Ar-
beit belonged to the Nazi party and
and every worker in Germany had an
account with it.

But no other banks had the per-
vading influence of the Deutsche and
Dresdner. These two banks were like
tough, man-eating ‘tropical vines
which flourished luxuriantly in the
cold climate of the Third Reich, The
obscure slave-laborer, the Jew with
a nice business, the inmate of the con-
centration camps — all felt the
strength of their tendrous growth.

The close tie between the banks-and the Nazi Party is illustrated by this view

of the funeral of Emil Georg von Strauss in Berlin in 1942. Strauss, an official of the

Deutsche Bank, was also chairman of the boards of directors of two automobile com-

panies converted into manufacturing aircraft engines long before the outbreak of

war. Shown delivering the funeral oration is Walter Funk, Reich economics minister, :

sentended last year by the International Military Tribunal to life imprisonment

on conviction of crimes against peace, war crimes, and crimes against humanity.
photo from ARCHIV, DEUTSCHER VERLAG

ceca

30 JUNE 1947

--- Page 7 ---
Deutsch-Asiatische Bank, which until
1942 was the only German bank in
Eastern Asia. Branches were opened
by the Deutsche Bank in Bulgaria
and Turkey, and by the Dresdner
Bank in Turkey and Egypt.

Many German banks found them-
selves in an extremely hazardous po-
sition as a result of World War I
and the subsequent inflation in Ger-
many. Following the stabilization of
the currency in 1924 many small
banks were “absorbed” by the large
Berlin banks, and the Deutsche and
Dresdner banks emerged after the
Banking crisis of 1929-1931 as the two
leading commercial banks of Ger-
many,

HE rise of National Socialism in
1933 led to far more comprehen-
sive expansion of both banks. After

1933 they participated in an ever--
increasing degree in Germany's pre-

parations for aggressive war by pro-
viding the German Government
with funds and by financing war
industry through loans and distri-
bution of new securities. In the
early years of the Nazi state they

financed the large scale public works
program through the issue of “work-
creation" bills; which were_ bills
drawn by contractors on special finan-
cial institutions of the Reich. Although
nominally short tcrm, the bills were
usually extended over and over again.

When the public works program
tapered off in 1935 and was replaced
by direct production for rearmament
this was financed by bills called by
the -innocuous name “special bills,”
which later came to be known as
“Mefo" bills, In addition to concealing
the object of the financing from the
outside public, the Mefo bills enabled
the Reichsbank to exceed by many
millions the RM 400 million which it
was permitted by its charter to lend
the government.

In accepting the Mefo bills for dis-
count the Big Banks knowingly gave
financial backing to Germany's re-
armament, and helped keep its volume
from the outside world. The volume
of transactions in Mefo bills cannot
now be determined, but the Deutsche
Bank alone held bills in the amount
of RM 618 million at the end of 1942,

Certain banking operations have continued for the service of the civilian population.
Below is shown workers counting money in the Deutsche Bank office in Frankfurt.

(ARMY SIGNAL CORPS photo)

After the Mefo certificates were dis-
continued the banks increased their
holdings of the promissory notes of
the Deutsche Golddiskontbank (Dego),
a subsidiary of the Reichsbank.

OWEVER, the main contribution

of the Big Banks in financing Ger-
man preparations for war came with
their purchase of direct government
securities. In Germany most of the
government war borrowing was done
from the banks, and there was little
direct investment of consumer savings
as in America. Very few individuals
invested directly in government war
bonds.

The big banks played a. Key role
in the early building up of Germany's
war industries. The banks kept the
industries firmly in hand, by close
personal supervision, achieved
through a system of interlocking di-
rectorates. The same men would oc-
cupy positions of influence both in
the bank and in the affiliated in-
dustrial concern. =

For example, the 54 directors,
agents, and officers of the Deutsche
Bank held in 1943 a total of 707 po-
sitions as directors and officers of
other corporations and of these, 281

were chairmen or vice-chairmen of —

(Continued on page 15)

if Soi ee uiaast ais:

--- Page 8 ---
By Alice Hanson Cook

EFORE 1933, German trade unions

had the most highly developed
labor education program in the
world, They trained their own leaders
in a school system which began with
evening courses in the local union,
progressed through short-term resi-
dent courses, to six-month terms in
economic schools, and finally to a
year's training at the University of
Frankfurt’s Academy of Labor.

Special courses were offered for
training local union officers, work's
councillors, lay judges in the labor
courts, union deputies in insurance
bodies, youth secretaries, and the
directors of women's work.

Schools experimented widely in
educational methods, Architects were
called in to build school homes
which would be best suited to the
needs of adult worker-students. Libra-
ries, film centers, visual aids were
all put at the service of labor edu-
cators,

Twelve years of Nazi persecution
aimed to eradicate every trace of a
free trade union movement. Although
the Nazis met more _ sustained
resistance on the part of labor people
than any other section of the popu-

lation, these years did deep and irre-
parable damage to the German labor
movement.

It would have been relatively
simple to go back to 1933, and to
have taken that pattern as a blueprint
for the post-war education program.
But an education program which is
not fitted to the needs ot the times
cannot justify itself and probably will
not stand up very long.

HAT are the demands which

Germany today makgs of its
trade unions? How does trade union
thinking differ today from 1933? What
kind of education program do the
unions have in mind for training their
leaders and formulating a workable
labor philosophy adequate to present-
day needs?

The 1947 unions are no \longer tied
to a particular political party. Their
base is broad and they are organized
to meet the problems raised in
industry without reference to the
program of any party. Political and
religious tolerance has become part
of the credo of the new unions.

One labor leader put it this may:
“The labor movement today dare not

Scenes at the Rheintaler-Hof near Garmisch, used as a trade union school by the
Bavarian Federation of Labor. (left) View of the building returned to the unions a
few months ago. (right) Gustay Schiefer, president of the Bavarian federation, sur-

isolate itself from other sections of
German society. Our job is to be one
of the important agencies for realiz-_
ing the economic and social demands
of the German people.”

Some of the questions which arise
out of this new point of view are: To
what extent should unions try to
realize these aims through legisla-
tion? To what extent can the state
solve problems in industrial relations
without interrupting the free play of
human initiative in meeting~ in-
dustrial problems?

IHE tendency today is to reject a

dogmatic Marxism to which they
formerly adhered because it was not
an adequate explanation of the deve-
lopments of. the past 14 years. At the
same time there is general agree-
ment that a high degree of state
planning is necessary to bring Ger-
many through to economic health.
The unions recognize that in such a
state, free trade unions must carry a
heavy load of responsibility in posi-
tive contributions to planning. But
the experiences of a state-controlled
labor front under the Nazis teach
them that their contribution is also
one of checking and balancing state
control of their own activities. The
contribution they make must be
freely given but carries with it the
responsibility for sharing in admin-
istration. .

In general they see that at the
moment two main educational pro-
grams ‘must be set up. The first, to
train leaders for union administra- ~
tion, and for labor representation on
public bodies and in government offi-

rounded by students picked from various unions for the two-week course.

--- Page 9 ---
ces. The second, to place emphasis
on a general education program to
give youth some idea of the function
and scope of trade unionism iia a dem-
ocratic society and some prepara-
tion for understanding what the
rights and duties of trade unionists
are both in the shop and in society
in general.

HE problem of leadership training

is acute. Most of the old trade
union leaders who reemerged at the
end of the war and were ready to
take over their duties once more,
were men in their late 50's, many of
them in their 60's. In five years their
ranks will begin to thin; in 10 years
they will have to be replaced almost
to a man. Young men are one of the
many scarce commodities in Germany
today.

It is not surprising, therefore, that
the unions put a good deal of empha-
sis on the speedy and intensive
training of the Works’ Councillors,
elected -by-their fellow workers in the
shops and charged with the responsi-
bility of handling shop problems in
cooperation with the union represent-
atives. These Councillors have been
chosen as shop leaders by their fel-
low workers and are the best sort of
leadership material for bigger jobs
later on.

In Bavaria, the unions have set up
a Works’ Councillors’ school at
Berneck near Bayreuth where short
courses are held studying the duties
of the Councillor and also general
trade union backgrounds and prob-
lems.

The Hessian unions are planning
to open a school this summer at
Oberursel in the Taunus which will
offer .short. courses not only for
Councillors but also for all the other
union officicers in turn: financial
secretaries; lay judges in the labor
courts; labor representatives in the
social insurance offices; volunteer and

professional welfare workers; and
youth leaders.
In Darmstadt, Works’ Councillors

planned eight evening classes. They
organized themselves into a Works’
Council and went through the duties
of the Councillor beginning with the
conduct of a plant election. They
handled grievances, negotiated with

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

employer representatives, took up
cases before a labor court, presented
workmen's compensation problems,
considered special insurance cases,
and heard pleas of unjust dismissals.

HE Academy of Labor in Frankfurt

was reopened in April 1947 with
65 young men and women students
representing all four zones. They are
studying university courses in labor
law, economics, social psychology,
government, history, and labor
theory. The Academy in 1947 aims to
turn out trained union officers and
representatives with a background
broad enough and deep enough to
give them a grasp of trade union
function in terms of the general
welfare.

For ‘the time being, the unions are
doing most of their general education-
al work with youth. Siace 90 per-
cent of German children leave school
at 14 to become apprentices and un-
skilled workers, their formal school-
ing from that time on is limited to
one day a week when they go to
vocational school, Youth organiza-
tions are the channels for most other
educational and recreational opportu-
nities for the next few important, for-
mative years.

IRADE union youth is no different

from other young people in
wanting sports, handcraft, music, or
hiking. But trade union. youth secre-
taries remember, too, that the young
people in their groups can easily be
the educationally underprivileged un-
less the youth group provides forums,
classes, or training courses. Most of
these young workers today were cut
off from normal growth into the labor
movement through family, neighbor-
hood, and children’s club influences.
These young people although they
come from worker's families and most
likely will themselves be workers all
their lives, for the most part have
no. knowledge of the history of the
labor movement in Germany and of
the role it is destined to play now.

At the same time, the unions re-
cognize that this generation within a
few years will supply leadership in
the shop and local unions. Schools at
Raintaler Hof near Garmisch, at
Suedelfeld in the Kaiser Mountains,
at a youth home near Kassel, and at

6

two youth centers in the Taunus are
giving short courses to trade union
members between 18 and 25 who can
become local youth group leaders.

JHE easy solution to social prob-

lems is to pass a law. The difficult
one is to find and develop leadership
in organizations with important social
functions who are able to see their ;
tasks and programs in terms of the
general good and to carry them out
in this spirit.

German labor unions are trying to
meet the responsibilities placed on
them by bringing their whole mem-
bership to a consciousness of their
responsibilities for Germanys’ future
and to train leadership which can
carry out a program adequate to
these needs. The schools and classes
operating today are only beginning,
and their success will depend upon
the degree to which they measure up.
to the importance of their function.

Bremen Water Control

In order to implement MG directives
and policies in the Land Bremen-
area, the Weser River Field Organi-
zation was created as a_ parallel
organization to the existing American |
Danube and Rhine Field Organizations.

The Weser River Field Organization
is charged with the responsibility for
direction of American water transport
personnel at Bremen under the control
of US Military Government, and for
liaison between tthe Office of Military
Government for Bremen, the Bizonal.
Transport Organization, and_ the:
Transport Division of US Military
Government.

In bizonal matters, the Weser River
Field Organization has the dual func-
tion of being the inspectorate for~
both inland water transport and
costal shipping in the Bremen area.

Title Change Delayed

An OMGUS cable V-19489 of
14 June, dealing with the licensing
of non-German organizations, directs
that MG Regulation Title 3, Change 1,
Part 6, “will not be put into effect
until receipt of implementing direc-
tive” from OMGUS.

30 JUNE - 1947

--- Page 10 ---
GERMANS MUST INITIATE OWN PLANNING

Realistic Programs for Recovery must be Devised and Top Experts must
Guide Operations, Bavarian MG Deputy Director Tells Show Audience

ERMAN business groups, trade

unions, farmer associations, and
other economic organizations must
take the initiative in practical plan-
ning for the solution of Bavarian's
economic ills, Kenneth Dayton, De-
puty Director of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Bavaria, said at

a ceremony in Munich marking the

first anniversary of
export show.

the Bavarian

Saying “the great lack in the past
months has been the German failure
to present plans’, Mr. Dayton asser-
ted: "They have sat back and waited
to be told what they may do, what
they ought to do. There is some rea-
son to believe that business at least
has done this constiously and deli-
berately, If so, there had better be a
change. This is no time to play a
waiting game. Much more delay and
Germany, and business with it, will
be beyond recovery.”

Although more and more authority
had been vested in German agencies,
he said, their failure to present “real-
istic plans for Allied approval has...
been the greatest barrier to more
rapid advance.” He told the audience
of MG and Bavarian economic offi-
cials and German business and labor
representatives: “If it were my
people who were hungry and cold
and without shelter, I would make
plans and proposals anyway.” How-
ever, such plans must be made within
the framework of Allied policy, and
“attempts to evade this policy are
not only useless but will further de-
lay German recovery.”

OVERNMENT agencies, indus-

trial, labor and farmer organi-
zations must plan and act together to
increase production’ for export and
home consumption. Exports provide
dollar credits for more food and raw
materials, which in turn contribute
to production, while domestic output
provides increased material wealth
within the country, reducing inflation
and providing more food, consumer
goods and housing, thus increasing

30 JUNE 1947

eae
Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner, Deputy
Commander-in-Chief, EUCOM, attend-
ing the opening of the Bavarian Ex-
port Exhibit, is shown some of the

porcelain pieces on display.
(photo from DENA-Bild)

ee

the farmers and workers’ willingness
and ability to produce.

Business associations, in coopera-
tion with the other cooperative
groups should draft their own plans

for obtaining replacements for facto- .

ries and raw materials, for reducing
taxes and increasing profits, stabiliz-
ing the currency, obtaining foreign
markets and freeing business from
red tape and bureaucracy. Military
Government is ready and willing to
consider their proposals as long as
they are “made in good faith and not
with deceitful intent to escape from
essential controls.”

The workers require food, cloth-
ing, household goods, and adequate
shelter, the Deputy Military Gover-
nor stated, but these can be obtained
only through a_ successful export
programm which will keep the wheels
of industry turning.

“In the meantime, I do not believe
it impossible to devise ways which
will immediately produce more con-
sumer goods almost wholly from in-
digenous resources with German
labor," Mr. Dayton said. “Let the
trade unions and the manufacturers
combine to prepare a plan.” The

7

unions should prepare practical plans
for simplification of economic distri-
bution and controls, and insist that
the government take action.

ARMERS' _ representatives, also,

should devote themselves to de-
vising plans for increased production
of consumers goods, farm machinery,
and fertilizers vitally needed for in-
creased food production,

Concerning the government's role
in economic planning, he cited the
new bizonal Economic Council as
giving Germans even greater control
over their economic problems. But he
stated that representatives of the
Laender in this Council must be
chosen for administrative ability and
competence, and “party politics and
strife for position must play no
part.”

“The question must not be the re-
lative place and influence of the CDU
or SPD, or of any of their. leaders,
but the vital need of the 40 million
people of the two zones... You have
chambers of commerce and _ trade
associations, trade and farmers unions
and other organizations. You have
newspapers and you have the radio.
Use them to be certain that the Coun-
cil, the Executive Committee and the
directors are chosen and work for
Germany and not party ends."

The Bavarian OMG official called
on the Land governments to avoid
“regionalsm" and to draft the best
men possible to aid them in the solu-
tion of economic problems. He cited
the example of the US Government
during the’ war, in going outside of
the civil service to obtain industrial
and business leaders to aid it in a
period of emergency.

HE problems confronting you to-

day are abnormal and you cannot
hope to succeed unless you take
abnormal remedies,“ he added. ‘One
of these is the inclusion in the gov-
ernment... of the best. men to be
found in each of the fields which con-
front you.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
IGNIFICANT and important chang-
es, introduced in the past year
in the basic principles and concepts.
of US Military Government ad-

ministration in Germany and the
manner in which US objectives are
to be achieved, are consolidated in
the recent revision of Title 1, “Gen-
eral Provisions,"" of the Military
Government Regulations. =
The MGR's “prescribe the policies,
functional relationships, and_ proce-
dures for the Military Government of
Germany (US) and set forth home-
field office relationships; relationships
between US Military Government and
German administration; between US

Military Government and the Control _

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Commission for Germany (British Ele-
ment) so far as the US Bipartite
Agreement is concerned; ~ and ll
other multipgrtite agreements affect-
ing the US Zone of Germany or the
relation of the US Mission to it.”

Military Government in Germany
is based on the unconditional surren-
der and total defeat of Germany. The
Allied Control Council possesses para-
mount authority throughout Germany
on matters affecting Germany as a
whole. Subject to the exercise by
the Control Council of authority on
matters within its jurisdiction, and to
the decisions of the Bipartite Board,
the Commander-in-Chief, European
Command, by virtue of his position,

8

°28 April 1947.

First Installment

is clothed with supreme legislativ
executive, “and judicial authority
within the US Zone.

HANGE 1 to MGR Title 1 co

stitutes a major revision of t!
Title and supersedes the old text i
its entirety. Change 1 became effe
tive 25 April 1947 and was promu
gated as an advanced notice under
OMGUS: letter AG 010.6 (CO)

The new Title 1 is composed of si
parts: Part 1, Introduction; Part 2
Military Government
Part 3, Objectives and Principles
Military Government; Part 4, Fun

Part 5, Relationship of
Government and German Govern-
ment; Part 6, Channels for Military
Government,

To give a complete account f
this revised basis for MG activities
in Germany, four installments wil
be presented by the Weekly ‘Informa:
tion Bulletin. This article presents
resume of the provisions of Parts 7
2, 6, and Section C of Part 5 dealin
with Military Posts and Districts.
Succeeding articles will deal indivi
dually in more detail with Parts 3, 4,
and the balance of Part 5.

ART 1 points out that the MGR’

in covering all phases of Military
Government and setting forth the
official policies, functional responsi-
bilities and organizational relation-
ships at every level of operation, ar
issued for compliance by all U
military ‘and civilian personnel
concerned. No changes are to be
made in these policies, functional
responsibilities, or organizational 1
lationships without corresponding
amendments of the Regulations.

The MGR’s do not cover matters
which pertain to the command and
administration of US Forces, European
Command excepting MG personnel,
and do not cover matters primarily
of military, air, or naval interes’
such as prisoners of war, military
intelligence, demobilization, and dis-
position of Germany's armament,
aviation, fleet, and ocean shipping.
These regulations, likewise, do not
have the force of law with respe

--- Page 12 ---
to the general population of Ger-
many.

In stating the supreme authority of
the Commander-in-Chief, European
Command, who also is Military
Governor, Part 2 specifies: :

“The Military Governor's authority
and power. is delegated to the
Directors of the Offices of Military
Government for their respective Laen-
der, except as otherwise specified in
these Regulations. This authority will
be broadly construed to enable them
to discharge their MG responsibilitiy.

“Responsibility for Military Govern-
ment may be redelegated to other
officers or organizational units by
the Directors of OMG's when required
by these Regulations or upon express
approval of the Military Governor.

“The authority of ‘Military Govern-
ment’ to approve ‘or disapprove,
authorize, take, or direct action is not
in itself authority for any MG officer
so to act on behalf of ‘Military
Government. The latter authority
depends upon the express terms of
these Regulations, or specific instruc-
tions or orders issued pursuant there-
to."

N GIVING the “Channels for

Military Government," Part 6
provides that on all MG matters the
chain of command passes from the
Military Governor through the Deputy
Military Governor to the Directors of
Land OMG's. The Deputy Military
Governor is the Commanding General
of OMGUS. OMGUS, serves as the
channel of communications with Mil-
itary Government in the US Zone
and in the US Sector, Berlin.

MG activities within each Land are
controlled by the OMG Director who
commands the operation of the Liaison
and Security offices at Stadkreis and
Landkreis levels. The Director of
OMG Berlin Sector is responsible for
MG activities in the US Sector and
Teports directly to the Commanding
General, OMGUS,

Part 6 also provides that a technical.

or staff channel of communication on
MG matters is authorized as a means
to expedite communication between
corresponding elements of the suc-
cessive echelons of Military Govern-
ment. Similarly, functional specialists

30 JUNE 1947

Citing MGR’s

The number preceding the dash
indicates the Title; that following
indicates the part and paragraph
within the nart. Where a para-
graph in further broken down
into sub-paragraphs, the number
of the sub-paragraph is indicated
by the digit following the decimal
point.

Thus, the first paragraph of
Part 3, Title 5, bears the number
5-300. The next paragraph bears
the number 5'301, which in turn
might be broken down into sub-
paragraphs 5-301.1 to 5-301.9.
References can, therefore, be
made to any paragraph of the
Regulations by the paragraph
number only, — thus: “MGR
5-301.1,”

at each echelon of Military Govern-
ment are authorized to employ func-
tional staff channels, for information
purposes and technical supervision
pertaining to their functions.

OTWITHSTANDING this author-

ization of the free use of tech-
nical and functional channels, the
command channel is always con-
trolling, and technical and functional
instructions may be contravened by
those having command responsibility
for Military Government. Technical
channels are authorized for staff
sections other than OMG's as outlined
in appropriate Titles of the MGR's
and applicable directives.

Detailed instructions issued and to
be issued through such functional
channels, in letter form, determine
the methods of use of these channels
for each function, including speci-
fication of such matters on which the
functional channels with OMGUS
continues to be used.

All orders and instructions to the
German Land governments within the
field of authority expressly reserved
to Military Government in MG
Proclamation No. 4 are to be given in
writing by the Lond OMG Directors
to the respective ministers-president.
These pass, as required, to the
appropriate elements of German

9

Government through the
administrative machinery,

German

Where necessary, copies of these
orders and instructions are furnished
to MG field officers below the Land
OMGQ’s for information so that they
may observe compliance by the Ger-
mans, Violations of such instructions,
however, are not corrected through
lesser German officials, except in cases
of actual emergency, but are reported
by the field officers to the Land OMG’s
so that remedial measures may be re-
quired, at that level, of the ministers-
president.

OLICY decisions, issued by the

Allied Control Authority and re-
quiring action by German agencies in
the US Zone, are passed on in this
method: The responsible divisions and
offices of OMGUS prepare the letters
to the field implementing such policy
decisions for issuance by OMGUS.
These letters, to which are attached
copies of the ACA decisions, contain
all the information and instruction nec-
essary to the effective execution of
the orders by the German agencies in-
volved, including, where necessary
and advisable, the German text of the
decisions and direction for advising
responsible German authorities.

Subject to the approval of the Mili-
tary Governor, Land OMG Directors
are authorized to negotiate with the
corresponding directors of contiguous
MG districts in the British, Soviet, and
French Zones in Germany and Austria,
and to conclude tentative agreements
w'th them on matters purely of mutual
local interest. They are to provide for.
lateral liaison with directors having
equivalent responsibility for Military”
Government in adjoining areas with a
view to obtaning consistency in local
regulations where permitted by appli-
cable MG policies.

IHE method of promulgating new

directives and instructions is de-
tailed in Part 1, Correspondence by
the responsible divisions and offices
of OMGUS on MGR Titles is directed
initially to the Control Office, OM-
GUS, for appropriate action. All in-
structions on MG matters covered in
any Title, except instructions with re-
spect to specific situations or ques-
tions, are issued as amendments or ad-
ditions to the Regulations, unless in-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 13 ---
cluded in directives or orders approv-
ed by the Control Office, or the -Of-
fice of the Chief of Staff, OMGUS, or
any higher authority.

In unusual emergencies only, com-
petent divisions and offices may issue
temporary instructions to the field
directly: by signal or telephone. The
Control Office is notified of such ae-
tions. Instructions as issuéd, if of con-
tinuing effect, are to be incorporated
in the MGR’s. . :

The divisions and offices of OMGUS
responsible for a specific Title prepare
the new text or make necessary chang-
es by amending the current text,
and are to obtain all necessary con-

_ currences, When the preparing division
considers it necessary, amendments to
MGR’s which have been processed by
the Control Office, may be given ad-
vanced distribution in temporary form
through technical channels.

URRENT MGR’s supersede all out-

standing directives and instruc-
tions of a genera] character relating to
Military Government as issued by any
headquarters. Insofar as instructions
issued with respect to specific cases
may be inconsistent, such instructions
are to that extent modified. However,
informational material and technical
data contained in these documents,
not embodying instructions are not
necessarily superseded and may be
used unless specifically superseded
or rescinded. Such informational ma-
terial and technical data may be
amended and supplemented by tech-
nical bulletins or other appropriate
publications, provided, however, that
such publications do not include or-
ders and instructions.

The paragraph on definitions and
abbreviations gives those adopted for
the purpose of the MGR’s. The US
Zone is defined as being composed of
the four Laender: Bavaria, Bremen,
Heese, and Wuerttemberg-Baden. The

' US Area of Control is the total area
in Germany under US occupational
forces, including the four Laender and
the US Sector of Berlin, Legislation
and other formal documents are to
show clearly whether Land Bremen is
intended to be included or not.

‘Military Districts are the major area
command into which the US Zone, ex-
clusive of Land Bremen, is divided for

* WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

logistic support and control of admin-
istrative services. Military Posts are
the several command into which the
Military Districts and other areas of
US Area of Control are divided, and
which constitute their basic supply
areas. The Military Districts Com-
mander is the Commanding General of
a Military District.

ART 5, Section C, dealing with Mil-

itary Districts and Posts, direct
that “Except with respect to admini-
stration of US and Allied personnel
for which authority shall continue to
be vested in OMGUS, District Com-
manders are responsible for complete
administrative and logistical support
of MG activities. District Commanders
have been directed to establish and
maintain liaison with, and fo support,
Land OMG Directors and coordinate
with them any matters affecting Land
Military Government or the German
economy,”

Specific dutis related to MG func-
tions and assigned to District Com-
manders, include:

1, United Nations displaced persons
and civil internee relationships.

2. Responsibilities with respect to
enemy and ex-enemy persons.

3. Supervision of demilitarization of,
and responsibility for. security of
captured enemy material in installa-
tions turned over to Military Govern-
ment and the certifying statement
that demilitarization has been com-
pleted.

4. Complete administrative and lo-

gistical support of MG activities in-

cluding full responsibility for provid-
ing all living and working essentials.

5. Transactions which involve the
acquisition and utilization of real
estate, with coodination as necessary
with Military Government to insure
that no unnecessary real estate is
acquired or held,

6. Coordination with Military Gov-
ernment on requests for procurement
by posts, organizations, and indivi-
duals assigned to district headquart-
ers,

7. Exercise of general courts-martial
jurisdiction over all personnel within
the commands.

8. Coordination with Military Gov-

10

ernment of all facilities occupied .or
used by MG personnel and activities,

9. Maintenance of direct liaison with
Land post, telephone, and telegraph
officiers of Military Government and
the Deutche Post on use of indi-
genous communications facilities.

10. Close cooperation between
District Commanders and.Counter In-
telligence Corps. ‘ ,

ECTION C also provides that. the

Military Post supports as lodgers, —
organizations such as _ Military
Government or other US Army-sup-.
ported agencies attached to the post
including official accredited Allied
military missions, troop and liaison
detachments, and their dependents
supported on US Military posts.

The second installment of this
series detailing the provisions of
MGR Title 1 will concern Title’s
Part 3, “Objectives and Principles of
Military Government.” It will be
published in next week's issue of the
Weekly Information Bulletin. a3

Bans Letters for DP’s

American personnel in Germany
has been advised by Hq EUCOM to
refrain from writing letters in behalf
of displaced persons seeking emigra-
tion to Great Britain, A EUCOM cable
of 19 June advised:

It is reported that some displaced
persons have arrived in the British
Zone from the US Zone with hopes of
being selected by British Ministry of
Labor Teams for resettlement. Al-
though these persons are not author-
ized entry into ‘the British Zone for
the purpose of resettlement, they
often carry letters from local US
authorities asking that they be given
every assistance in their emigration
to Great Britain.

Issuance of such letters is not in
accordance with established policy.
All personnel are being instructed to
refrain from preparing letters of this
type. They will also be directed to
refer all questions dealing with emi-
gration, to local representatives of
the Intergovernmental Committee on
Refugees, or its successor agency.

30 JUNE 1947

--- Page 14 ---
Personnel Changes

Judge James T, Brand has been
appointed Presiding Judge of Military
Tribunal III hearing the case, at
Nuremberg against 15 former high offi-
cials of the Reich Ministry of Justice.
He succeeds Judge Carrington T. Mar-
shall who has been forced to retire be-
cause of ill health.

Judge Justin William Harding, who ©

has been the alternate judge of the
Tribunal, has been named to the panel
to fill the vacancy caused by, Judge
Marshall's retirement. Judge Mallory
B. Blair is the third member of the
panel.

Judge Louis E, Levinthal of Phila-
delphia, co-chairman’ of the United
Jewish Appeal and the United Pal-
estine Appeal, has been appointed
advisor on Jewish affairs to the Mili-

tary Governor. He will succeed Rabbi |

Phillip S. Bernstein who has been the
advisor for the past 14 months.

Mr. Frederick L. Devereux, who
served with Military Government in
Germany in the early months of the
occupation and later on a special
assignment in Japah and Korea, has
been named Special Assistant to the
Military Governor.

Acting heads of OMGUS offices
named to serve during the current
temporary absences of the permanent
officials include Col. H. R. Maddux as
Acting Chief of Staff, Col. Perry
L. Baldwin as Acting Inspector Ge-
neral; and Mr, James E. King, Jr., as
Acting Secretary General. D

Position Added to ICD List

Film exhibitors have been added
to the positions which require Infor-
mation Control political clearance
before the person may be. employed
in any information service, as listed
in OMGUS letter, AG 000.1 (IC),
“Standards Applied to Personnel in
German Information Services," dated

22 March 1947. The addition is given

in an amendment dated 12 June.

Rural Police Patrols Reduced

With the recent concentration of
US Constabulary units in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, most rural police assigned
to patrol duties with Constabulary
units have been released.

30 JUNE 1947

High Court Open in Hesse

IHE Hessian citizen who feels that

his constitutional prerogatives
have been encroached upon by any
act of the Land government short of
parliamentary-enacted legislation now
has the right of full judicial recourse,
with the inauguration in Kassel of
the Land's Supreme Administrative
Court.

The opening completed the resto-
ration of administrative justice to
the Land through a system which in-
cludes lower chambers located in
Wiesbaden, Darmstadt, and Kassel.
Never. before in’ Germany's history
have administrative courts been in
such a strong position as they are
today, it was pointed out by ‘Richard
Simonson, civil administration offi-
cial of OMG for Hesse.

"The erection of the Hessian admi-
nistrative court ,structure,” he said,
“has opened a new era in the re-
cognition of the dignity of the indi-
vidual in this Land, because these
tribunals have been established espe-
cially to safeguard the individual
citizen against arbitrary acts and or-
ders by government officials. Ordi-
mances, decrees, executive orders,
‘and all other types of government
directives short of laws passed by the
Landtag can now be challenged in a
fairly rapid and inexpensive manner
by any citizen who believes that
his rights have been unlawfully
restricted.”

“Until now,” Simonson said, “au-

tocratic bureaucrats were able to
hide behind ‘a blanket statement -of
emergency conditions and asserted
emergency powers so long as their
acts did not conflict with Military
Government policies.”

HE Hessian Secretary of State, Dr.
Hermann Brill, warned . Hessian
administrators to contain their official
actions within the Framework of
established laws. Administrative or-
ders which refer to an “emergency”
outside the law are prohibited and
must not be observe, he emphasized.
“T believe,“ he went on, “that
there is enough to make clear to
each rural mayor and- to each head
of even the smallest state authority,

11

be it a mining office, a land commu-
nal authority, the administrator of an
institdtion or any other type of author-
ity, that he will, henceforth, be
answerable before an administrative
court, should he be guilty of violating
the rights of man. Neither a com-
plaint nor any other means of protest
may free him from this responsibility.”

The Hessian Supreme Administra-
tive Court President, Dr. Gerhard
Mueller, declared, “The people of
Hesse still are not sufficiently ac-
quainted with the whole concept of
administrative justice and law," as he
called for the assistance of the Ger-
man press in educating Hessians to
the importance of the administrativ:
court system. .

ESSE MG officials anticipate that

the majority of cases which ad-
ministrative courts will hear will
involve housing requisitioning by the
Land government, one of the chief
sources of irritation to Hessians, Re-
quisitions made on behalf of the
occupying forces cannot be challenged
before German tribunals, it was poin-
ted out, but such requisitions no long-
er constitute a significant percen-
tage of dwelling space and furniture.

Supplies Only for Youth

Army excess supplies for use by
youth groups in camping programs
“must be used solely and exclusively
for youth activities," said OMGUS
cable V-19540 of 17 June. Declaring
“no diversion is permissible,’ the
cable continued:

“Authority for this is action of Bi-
partite Economic Panel which approv-
ed release of the Army surplus ma-
terial in question and so instructed
the Joint Export-Import Agency. Pay-
ment. for these supplies to the corpo-
ration is in marks, either by organi-
zation concerned or by budgetary
allowances in Land ministry. Prices
to be determined by adjudication
between corporation, German prices
authorities, and youth officials. Re-
lease and distribution of this mate-
rial is considered an essential mil-
itary mission of the occupation to
be executed without delay.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
US PROPOSAL

Text of the speech by Secretary of
State Marshall at Harvard University,
proposing that the nations of Europe
agree among themselves on their re-
quirements and on the maximum uli-
lization of the aid which the United
States can extend, follows.

NEED not tell

that the world situation is very
serious, That must be apparent to all
intelligent’ people. I think one diffi-
culty is that the problem is one of
such enormous complexity that the
very mass of facts presented to the
public by press and radio makes it
exceedingly difficult for the man in
the street to reach a clear appraise-:
ment of the situation. Furthermore,
the people of this country are distant
from the troubled areas of the earth
and it is hard for them to comprehend
the plight and consequent reactions of
the long-suffering peoples, and the
effect of those reactions on their gov-
ernments in connection with our
efforts to promote peace in the world.

you gentlemen

In considering the requirements for
the rehabilitation of Europe the phys-
ical loss of life, the visible destruc-
tion of cities, factories, mines and
railroads was correctly estimated, but
it has become obvious during recent
months that this visible destruction
was probably less serious than the
dislocation of the entire fabric of
European economy. For the past ten
years conditions have been highly
-abnormal. The feverish preparation
for war and the more feverish main-
tenance of the war effort engulfed all
aspects of national economies, Ma-
chinery has fallen into disrepair or
is entirely obsolete. Under the ar-
bitrary and destructive Nazi rule, vir-
tually every possible enterprise was
geared into the German war machine.
Long-standing commercial ties, pri-
vate institutions, banks, insurance
companies, and shipping companies
disappeared, through loss of capital,
absorption through nationalization, or
by simple destruction. In many coun-
tries, confidence in the local currency
has been severely shaken. The break-
down. of the business structure of
Europe during the war was complete.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

FOR EUROPE TO HELP SELF

ECOVERY has been seriously

retarded by fact that two years
after the close of hostilities a peace
settlement with Germany and Austria
has not been agreed upon. But even
given a more prompt solution of these
difficult problems, the rehabilitation
of the economic structure of Europe
quite evidently will require a much
longer time and greater effort than
had been foreseen.

There is a phase of this matter
which is both interesting and serious.
The farmer has always produced the
foodstuffs to exchange with the city
dweller for the other necessities of life.
This division of labor is the basis of
modern civilization. At the present

e intend to support those
who are determined to
govern themselves in their own
way and who honor the right of
others to do likewise. We intend
to aid those who seek to live at
peace with their neighbors,
without coercing or being coer-
ced, without intimidating or being
intimidated,
President Truman
at Ottawa, 11 June

time it is threatened with breakdown.
The town gnd city industries are not
producing adequate goods to ex-
change with the food-producing farm-
ers. Raw materials and fuel are in
short supply, Machinery is lacking
or worn out.

The farmer or the peasant cannot
find the goods for sale which he de-
sires to purchase. So the sale of his
farm produce for money which he
cannot use seems to him an unpro-
fitable transaction. He, therefore, has
withdrawn many fields from crop cul-
tivation and is using them for grazing.
He feeds more grain to stock and
finds for himself and his family an
ample supply of food, however short
he may be on clothing and the other
ordinary gadgets of civilization.

‘ANWHILE people in the cities
are short of food and fuel. So the
governments are forced to use their
foreign money and credits to procure

12

these necessities abroad. This process
exhausts funds which are urgertly
needed for reconstruction. Thus a
very serious situation is rapidly de-
veloping which bodes no good for the
world. The modern system. of the di-
vision of labor upon which the ex-
change of products is based is in
danger of breaking down.

The truth of the matter is that Euro-
pe’s requirements for the next three
or four years of foreign food and
other essential products—principally
from America—are so much greater
than her present ability to pay that
she must have substantial additional
help, or face economic, social, and
political deterioration of a very grave
character. 5

The remedy lies in breaking the
vicious circle and restoring the con-
fidence of the European people in the
economic future of their own coun-
tries and of Europe as a whole. The
manufacturer and the farmer through-
out wide areas must be, able and
willing to change their products for
currencies the continuing value of
which is not open to question.

Aside from the demoralizing effect
on the world at large and the possi-
bilities of disturbances arising as a
result of the desperation of the people
concerned, the consequences to the
economy of the United States should
be apparent to all. It is logical that
the United States should do whatever
it is able to do to assist in the return
of normal economic health in the
world, without which there can be no
political stability and no assured
peace.

Our policy is directed not against
any country or doctrine but against
hunger, poverty, desperation, and
chaos. Its purpose should be the re-
vival of a working economy in the
world so as to permit the emergence
of political and social conditions in
which free institutions can exist. Such
assistance, I am convinced, must not
be on a piece-meal basis as various

crises develop. Any assistance that

this government may render in the
future should provide a cure rather
than a mere palliative.

. (Continued on page 14) °

30 JUNE 1947

--- Page 16 ---
~ Marshall Suggestion Backed

ECRETARY of State Marshall's

address at Harvard University
early this month, in which he sug-
gested a joint program for European
recovery—with the “initiative stem-
ming from Europe—has been widely
appraised by United States news-
papers and radio commentators. Agree-
ing fully with Secretary Marshall's
analysis of the continent's economic
dislocation, and needs, the editorials
generally approved the approach he
suggested to promote recovery.

The Washington Star editorial stat-
ed: “As Secretary Marshall made
clear... the United States has decid-
ed to try a new approach to the
enormously complex problem of Euro-
pean recovery.

“Heretofore, ta the tune of many
billions of dollars, we have extended
aid in fits and starts to individual
countries without reference to the
over-all needs of the continent. —
Now we propose to integrate the
program as much as possible. To this
end, Secretary Marshall has suggest-
ed that the initiative should come
from the European governments them-
selves. In his judgment a number of
them, if not all, should get together
and agree on a common plan calculat-

ed to promote their mutual recovery.

The United States would participate in
the planning, and then—once agree-
ment were reached—our aid would be
forthcoming to the greatest practi-
cable extent. .

“There can be no question that our
aid is needed, and will be needed,
in large measure for some time to
come...

“As Secretary Marshall has observ-
ed, the Russian-imposed delay in
working out peace settlements for
Austria and Germany makes the pro-
blem much more difficult than it
would otherwise be. Even so, if the
Soviet Government and its satellites
remain obstructionist, the other coun-
tries—Britain, France, the Lowlands,

30 JUNE 1947

Italy, etc-—can do much to improve
the outlook for western Europe. The
idea would seem to require a special
conference by these nations to devise
a program aimed at gearing their
economies together in a way that
would make the efficient and most
fruitful use of our aid. At such a
conference, for example, the French
might agree to merge their zone with
the Anglo-American Zones in Ger-
many, and other measures might be
taken to tie in the German productive
capacity with the needs of all the
conferring powers.

ECRETARY Marshall has not ex-
plained his proposal in detail. He
has left no room for doubt, however,
that the United States does not intend
to help, but will oppose instead, any
government maneuvering to block the

recovery of other countries. At the —

same time, he has assured all nations
willing to cooperate that they will
have as much economic support as
we can give them on condition that
they agree on a joint, integrated pro-
gram to put Europe back on its feet.
“This constitutes an important de-
parture from past American policy.
Whether it will lead to concrete re-
sults depends largely on how nations
like Britain and France react to it. In
any event, Secretary Marshall is ob-
viously on sound ground. The problem
cannot be solved on a_ willy-nilly
basis by the United States alone. It
calls for over-all planning and a new
show of European initiative.”
Hartford (Conn.) Courant said:
“European initiative toward a joint
economic reconstruction should be
the first objective of United States
policy ... If all nations cannot
act together, like-minded ones can.
If political action against war
is out of reach, economic action
is not.” The Courant concluded that
“The Secretary was wise in recogniz-
ing that we cannot impose our ideas

13

upon Europe. an encourage
them.” ’
Richmond (Va.) News-Leader:

“America must do all it can to aid _
Europe, but her best effort will fail
unless Europe helps itself. That is the
burden of the Marshall Declaration.”

St. Louis Post-Dispatch, calling for
a “bold, forthright and resourceful’
program, pointed specifically to this
portion of Marshall's speech, quoting
his wards: “It would be neither fitting
nor efficacious for this government to
undertake to draw up unilaterally a
program to place Europe on its feet
economically. This is the business of

Europeans. The initiative, I think,
must come from Europe.”
The editorial then said: ‘To the

extent that the United States must
proceed with tact, this is entirely
true, Yet the degree of economic union
which Secretary Marshall himself
considers necessary to rehabilitate
western Europe is not likely to come
unless the United States exercises the
legitimate pressures at its command.

“We have the right to say to the
countries of western Europe: ‘We
cannot see our way clear to advanc-
ing you four or five billion dollars a
year over a period of several years
unless you move to form an economic
union which will enable you at the
end of the period to be self-sustaining
democratic states. And we would ex-
pect enough political union at least
to permit the measures of economic
union to work.’ We have not only the
right to say this. It is our duty, both
to Europe and to America.....

The New York Times: ‘We have
no right to dictate what forms of
economic organization shall emerge
out of the European chaos. We do
have a right, as a condition to further
aid and as an occupying power in
Germany and Austria, to ask that the
organizing effort be made. We cannot
avoid the right and duties of partner-
ship.

“The next step in the development
ef the Truman Doctrine is to make it
multilateral and positive. What this
requires, in Europe, is an economic

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
conference, in which Britain and the
United States will sit as interested
parties, will be invited to send re-
presentatives. We may have little
faith in Russia's desire to cooperate.
Nevertheless, the overt act of divid-
ing Europe into two economic spheres
should come from her, not from the
free nations. If she will not cooperate,
the free nations must do what they
can with what they have.

“Out of such a conference should
come an agreement as ‘to currencies,
trade policies, production policies,
credit policies and relief necessities.
The aim should be to make of all
Europe—or, if only this can be attain-
ed, of western Europe—a productive
area, able to support its people and
pay its bills. To such an area we
could lend, as we would to promising
industries in our own country, with
the expectation of ultimate repayment.
The alternative is not merely con-
tinued chaos in Europe, which could
only be succeeded by low-production
totalitarian systems, but a collapse
and permanent limitation of our own
economy. We are not safe from uni-
versal ruin any more than from uni-
versal war."

Baltimore Sun observed that Mar-
shall's speach “definitely doos not
tule Russia out, in so far as an Eu-
ropean organization is concerned; and
it does not rule Russia out in so
far as aid from the United States is
concerned. Thus we do not abandon
our hope that ultimately the Russians,
the western Europeans, and ourselves
may find some way in which we can
all live together to our mutual ad-
vantage.”

Radio commentator Eric Sevareid
said, “It's now realized that American
help to Europe without a master plan
is simply not going to get Europe
over the hump.”

Commentator Elmer Davis: “Noth-
ing in Secretary Marshall's language
can reasonably be constructed as
implying that we would force oa
any European country the system
(private capitalism) which its people
might find either politically objection-
able or economically unworkable.
We want to restore Europe, not to
dominate it.” .

Commentator David Willis: “Ob-
viously Congress will be still more
insistent than the administration

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

that no vast peacetime lend-lease
funds shall be appropriated until the
European countries do produce re-
construction plans which have reason-
able promise of being successful.”

EVERAL papers, while listing the
S various difficuties and obstacles,
were hopeful that such a program—if
carried through would solve Europe's
basic economic problems.

New York Herald Tribune stated:
“The United States must be prepar-
ed to assume heavier burdens for
longer than it had hoped or ex-
pected, as an investment in restoring
the world to sanity and good economic
health. To carry through this com-
plicated operation will require the
best efforts of the best brains, here
and abroad, as well as a broad public
acceptance within the United States
of the necessity of the program and
confidence in the efficiency with
which it is to be carried out. Marshall
has evidently embarked upon the
organization of such a program which
will fulfill these requirements and he
has made a most encouraging be-
ginning.”

(Continued from page 12)

US Proposal for Europe

NY government that is willing to

assist in the task of recovery will
find full cooperation, I am sure, on the
part of the United States Government,
Any government which maneuvers
to block the recovery of other coun-
tries cannot “expect help from us.
Furthermore, governments, ‘political
parties or groups which seek to per-
petuate human misery in order to
profit therefrom politically or other-
wise will encounter the opposition of
the United States.

It is already evident, that, before
the United States Government can pro-
ceed much further in its efforts to
alleviate the situation and help start
the European world on its way to
recovery, there must be some agree-
ment among the countries of Europe
as to the requirements of the situation
and the part these countries them-
selves will take in order to give proper
effect to whatever action might be
undertaken by this government. It
would be neither fitting nor effi-
cacious for this government to un-

14

dertake to draw up unilaterally a pro-
pram designed to place Europe on
its feet economically. This is the busi-
ness of the Europeans. The initiative,
I think, must come from Europe, The
role of this country should consist of
friendly aid in drafting of a European
program and of later support of such
a program so far as it may be prac-
tical for us to do so. The program
should be a joint one, agreed to by
a number, if not all European nations.

An essential part of any successful
action on the part of the United States
is an understanding on the part of the
people of America of the character of
the problem and the remedies to be
applied. Political passion and pre-
judice should have no part. With
foresight, and a willingness on the
part of our people to face up to the
vast responsibility which history has’
clearly placed upon our country, the
difficulties I have outlined can and
will be overcome.

Local Mail Exchange

Since 1 May the Reichspost has
been in position to make local
exchange of mail with the Army post
offices rather than through the pre-
vious procedure of fo warding all such
mail to exchange offices at Munich,
Stuttgart, Frankfurt, and Berlin, This
should expedite the exchange of offi-
cial and personal mail of the civil
population to agencies and members
of the occupational forces.

Arrangements were also completed
for all German civil international
mail originating in the US Zone and
destined for the Western Hemisphere
to be routed via Bremen, thereby
expediting the delivery of this mail
and also eliminating transit fees
through France.

“Persecutee” Ring Uncovered

An Illegal organization of “profes-.
sional" criminals pretending to be
political and racial persecutees for
the purpose of obtaining additional
ration cards was uncovered by Frank-
furt police investigators. It is believed
that organization is at least zone-
wide and may extend into all parts
of Germany.

30 JUNE 1947

--- Page 18 ---
(Continued from page 4)

Deutsche - Dresdner Banks

boards of directors. The companies
concerned included such leaders in
heavy industry as IG Farben, Mannes-
mann, Rheinisch-Westfaelisches Elek-
trizitaetswerk, Hoechst, and Rheini-
sche Braunkohle. The directors of
the bank had to give their unanimous
consent before one of their men could
accept a position in another corpo-
ration, and once appointed the direc-
tor was held personally responsible
for influencing the company’s policies
in the direction desired by the bank.

In addition ta these invaluable per-
sonal contacts the Deutsche and
Dresdner Banks exercised a dominant
voting control in many industrial
companies. With the larger companies
such control was usually secured by
proxy voting; ownership of majority
stock was practiced among medium-
sized and smaller corporations.

IHROUGH their role as investment

bankers the Big Banks also con-
trolled to a considerable extent the
intercorporate ties among their in-
dustrial clients. Securities originated
or sold for one client were often
placed with other selected concerns
rather than offered to the general
public. These practices enabled the
Big Banks to influence the policies of
almost every, important industrial
concern in Germany to an extent far
beyond the limits. of their legal
ownership.

As an example of the intertwined
relationship of one of the Big Banks
and a large industrial affiliate it is
interesting to trace the history of
Mannesmann, the big steel tube and
sheet metal corporation,

Mannesmann started as a small
company established by two brothers,
Max and Reinhard Mannesmann, to
exploit and develop a seamless tube
process which they had perfected.
The influence of the bank over this
company goes back to 1890 when re-
presentatives of the bank reorganized
the enterprise. A banking syndicate,
headed by the Deutsche Bank fur-
nished RM 12 million of the
RM 35 million initial capital of the
reorganized business. Max Steinthal,
officer of the Deutsche Bank, became
a director of the company, and iin
1896 was made chairman of the board.

30 JUNE 1947

In a few years the Mannesmann
brothers were forced out of the busi-
ness. Steinthal remained-at the helm
of the company until 1936 when he
gave up the chairmanship as a result
of political conditions. He was replac-
ed by Otto Schlitter, then chairman
of the board, and a former officer of
the Deutsche Bank. Upon Schlitter’s
death, Oswald Roesler, “speaker of
the Deutsche Bank officers, succeeded
to the Mannesmann chairmanship.

ITHOUT interruption, from 1896

until the present, the chairman-
ship of the Mannesmann board of
directors has been in the hands of
top executives of the Deutsche Bank.
The Bank officials not only dominat-
ed the board; officials of the bank
held key positions in Mannesmann
companies in Germany and abroad.
An incomplete list furnished by the
company shows 30 of these Deut-
sche Bank officials who filled such
jobs over a period of years.

Personal control was supplemented
by financial control. From 50 to
80 percent of the capital stock re-
presented at various annual meetings
was voted by the Deutsche Bank, and
the bank headed all syndicates for
new stock issues, bond issues, and
loans. The close tie between the bank
and the company was reflected in a
statement in the German banking
periodical “Die Bank” for 3 May 1940:

“Whoever knows even a little
history of Mannesmann knows it
is a child of the Deutsche Bank.”

Because of this intimate connec-
tion, competent authorities on inter-
national ‘finance believe that the
Deutsche Bank should be held co-
responsible for Mannesmann activi-
ties—which include large war produc-
tion, extensive and inhuman use of
slave labor, and aryanization of
Jewish property.

The commanding position of the
Deutsche and Dresdner Banks in the
Third Reich was mainly due to the
fact that officials of the banks played
politics very shrewdly. They appoint-
ed prominent Nazis to leading posi-
tions in the banks, to keep their
fences mended, and they contributed
lavishly to party funds. .

HE cleverness with which the
German banking and political lead-
ers worked to exploit every possible

15

Tracing Service

The US Consulate General in
Berlin advised all Germans seek-
ing the addresses of relatives and
friends in the United States to
make their requests directly to
“Suchstelle” (Search Bureau),
Staats-Herold-Corporation, P.O.
Box 1207, Church Street Annex,
New York 7, N.Y., U.S.A.

Existing overseas postal serv--
ice should be used for the trans-
mission of such mail. Persons
applying to the Search Bureau in
the United States should give the
full name and the last known
address, or last known place of
residence of the person or per-
sons to be traced, together with
other information to help identify
the person or persons concerned.

No requests should be sent to
the Search Bureau for food
packages or addresses of com-
.mercial firms, since the -bureau
is entirely occupied with the pro-
curement of addresses. Personal
communications to persons to be
traced will not be forwarded by
the bureau.

weakness of vanity or snobbishness
on the part of influentially placed
foreigners is illustrated by the way
in which they subsidized Duke Adolf
Friederich of Mecklenburg. In 1933
the Duke “placed himself at the dis-
posal of the Third Reich,” and Her-
man Abs, Max Ilgner of IG Farben,
and Hermann Goering secured funds
from the Deutsche and Dresdner
Banks to see that he was financially
maintained in a style which would
have snob-appeal, the better to spy
in influential circles. South America
was his particular hunting ground.
The Dresdner Bank became known
as the “SS Bank" largely as a result
of the appointment of two political
figures as officers of the bank. They
were Karl Rasche and Emil Meyer,
who had been virtually unknown in
banking circles up to that time. At
the Deutsche Bank the most pro-
minent officer in 1933 was Emil von
Stauss, a staunch and prominent ex-
ponent of National Socialism and
Vice-President of the Nazi-Reichstag.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
More than a third of the board
members of the Deutsche Bank held
the title ‘War Economic Leader”
which was bestowed on leading in-
dustrialists for special achievements
in forwarding the Nazi. preparations
for war. Many of the leading figures
in the two banks were close personal
friends of outstanding political lead-
ers in the Third Reich. Hermann
Abs, who guided the foreign depart-
ment of the Deutsche Bank during
its great expansion in Europe, was
closely identified with Hjalmar
Schacht and Walter Funk. Carl Goetz,
most important personality of the
Dresdner Bank during the Nazi
regime was the intimate friend of
Fritz Sauckel, director of the Ger-
man slave labor program, who was
executed in 1946, at Nuremberg as a
war criminal.

ERMANY'’S clandestine develop-

ment of her air force, her frantic
efforts to secure oil for the war effort,
the construction of facilities to pro-
duce synthetic gasoline, were diver-
sified fields in which the. Big Banks
‘aided the government by financial,
technical, legal, and diplomatic as-
sistance.

The so-called ‘“Aryanization pro-
gram" of the Nazi regime was very
profitable to the Big Banks. They
first fell in step with the policy by
purging Jews from their rolls of
employees, then reaped the harvest
by acting as purchasers, bankers,
and brokers for the “Aryanized" pro-
perties. The Dresdner and Deutsche
Banks acquired properties for their
own account in this way, financed
acquisitions of "“Aryanized" property
for customers, selected and appraised
properties for future ‘“Aryanization,”
and even searched for prospective
customers interested in this type of
transaction.

The Deutsche Bank acquired several
private banks, among other interests.
The firm of Simon Hirschland, Essen,
was “Aryanized” in 1938 and its pro-
perty, transferred to a newly estab-
lished banking house called Burk-
hardt & Co, The new firm was
endowed with a capital of RM6.5 mil-
lion, the Deutsche Bank participating
overtly with RM 2.5 million and
assuring itself of full control by
financing the capital investment of

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Calls Impede Action

The Combined Travel Board has
requested that telephone calls to
the Board be restricted to those
of an official nature only. The
volume of calls from the US Zone,
especially in regard to the status
of fiancee applications, has at-
tained such proportions as to be
a serious obstruction to opera-
tions. It is pointed out that all
applications will be treated with
the greatest possible dispatch, but
that inquiries as to their status
tend to slow the process.

RM _ 500,000 for each of the two per-
sonally-liable partners who entered
the new firm. One of these partners
was a branch manager of the Deut-
sche Bank.

In the same year “Aryanization”
was initiated in Mendelssohn & Co.,
Berlin, the leading private’ bank in
Germany. The Jewish partners were
forced to resign, the firm entered liqui-

dation, and the Deutsche Bank took.

over all customers’ accounts. No com-
pensation was ever paid the former
partners,

EANWHILE the Dresdner Bank

also took over a handful of
Jewish owned private banking houses.
As an example of the type of pressure
which was brought to bear to give
the acquisitions a pseudo-legal qua-
lity, the “Aryanization” of the bank-
ing houses Gebr. Arnhold, Berlin, and
S. Bleichroeder, Berlin, took place
in February 1938, after Dr. Kurt Arn-
hold had been arrested by the Ge-
stapo. He was only released when he
consented to sign a contract covering
the sale of the two firms to the Dresdner
Bank, and Hardy & Co., which was
owned by the Dresdner Bank, Al-
though the net assets of Gebr. Arm-
hold and S. Bleichroeder were
about RM 25 million, (exclusive of
the good will which the Dresdner
Bank itself had formerly evaluated at
RM 15 million) the contract of sale
stipulated a price of RM 8 million,
which was never paid the Arnhold
brothers.

16

While the negotiations were gojng
on, Hans Arnhold, who lived outside.
Germany, was approached by an
intermediary who suggested that it:
might be “appropriate” to negotiate
the sale through a lawyer, Mr. Hue-
ber, brother-in-law of Hermann Goe-
ting. Hueber asked a fee of 500,000
Swiss francs, payable in Switzerland,
for his “services.”

JHE Dresdner Bank was unique in

the aggressiveness of its methods
and in the exercise of duress with the
aid of the Gestapo, the SS, and other
Nazi agencies, Three of the directors
of ‘the Dresdner Bank occupied the
political position of Gauwirtschafts-
berater (district economic advisor);
one of the main functions of this
office was to encourage and supervise
the confiscation of Jewish businesses. -
In collaboration with these political
associates the bank made full use of

‘plackmail, intimidation, and brutality

to force. acquiecence to its demands.
For example, it arranged in May,
1934, to have the Gestapo arrest the
owner of the profitable Engelhardt
Brauerei A.G. of Berlin, the second
largest brewery concern in Germany,
and subsequently obtained a majority
interest in the firm.

In the case of I. and C, A. Schnei-
der A.G., Frankfurt/Main, a very
large leather and shoe manufacturer
with annual sales exceeding RM 20
million in 1938, and with net profits
amounting to RM 2.5 million, the
Dresdner Bank conducted the trans-
action so that a contract of sale was
signed providing for, a sales price of
less than three percent of the net
value of the firm. An affidavit by
the former owner clarifies the reason
for such a low sales price:

“.,.1 received official word... that
I could not count on ever being
released from Buchenwald unless my
brother and I accepted the proposition
embodied in the enclosed contract.
This I accepted and after I had done

“so I was released on Nov. 23, 1938,

and the contract was finally

executed on Dec. 17, 1938."

OR its services in this transaction

the Dresdner Bank received a fee
of RM 40,000.

Other cases of a similar nature
covered all sorts of transactions in
both small and large businesses. The

30 JUNE 1947

--- Page 20 ---
=
:
:
.
]

ELLS RETURN — Two bells, which

escaped the Nazi furnace, were re-
turned to Landshut, Bavaria, amid
colorful and joyous welcome by the
people of the city.

These bells were the two-meter high
Dechant-Bell and the 75-cm. high Chri-
sten-Lehre-Bell, both originally in the
St. Martin Church of Landshut. They
were removed by the Nazis during the

war for melting down to make guns.
The war ended before the bells got
to the furnace. They were among
several thousand church and town
bells found by the British near Ham-
burg. Recently the British MG released
them. Those belonging to the US
Zone were being turned back to their
rightful owners under the American
MG restoration program.

The two bells arrived in Landshut
on 13 June, and with great solemnity
were taken from the railroad station
through the streets of the city to the
St. Martin's Church.

The picture above shows the cere-
mony in front of the main door of the
St. Martin's Church as the mayor
turned the bells over to the vicar of
the church. (photo from DENA-Bild)

Dresdner Bank gained such a repu-
tation for itself that firms coveting
certain Jewish properties often
solicited it for assistance. To such
requests the bank had a dignified
“form letter,’ stating:

“The Dresdner Bank is very ac-
tively engaged in Aryanization pro-
blems, and is, thanks to its connec-
tions, in a position to help you."

The directors of the Big Banks took
big bites of this rich fruit for them-
selves also. For example, in 1939
Heinrich Koppenberg, member of the
board of the Dresdner Bank since 1935,
acquired the Argus Motor Company
from Mr. Stauss, a Jew then in a con-
centration camp, and the Dresdner
Bank extended a RM 2 million loan
to complete the transaction,

This experience gained in ‘Aryani-
zation” activity in Germany served
the banks in good stead when they
helped the government in its program
for the economic spoilation of oc-
cupied Germany. Plans for economic

30 JUNE, 1947

penetration were always worked out
in detail before the military attack
and occupation of a given country.
A good deal of competition arose
between the Deutsche Bank and the
Dresdner Bank as to which would
take over the biggest local banking
institutions in each occupied area.
Sometimes one, sometimes the other
acquired the richest plums, but as
one country after another fell under
the shadow of Nazi Germany, their
banks and big industries were sucked
in by the Deutsche or Dresdner Bank.

'N Czechoslovakia, for example,

Mannesmann made five important
acquisitions between 1939 and 1941.
The Hermann Goering Works, second
largest steel producing company in
Germany, acquired seven Czech com-
panies through the mediation of the
Dresdner Bank and its subsidiaries.
These included mighty Skoda, largest
European munitions factory. . This
pattern was repeated in almost every

17

country conquered by the Germans. :
Another black mark against the Big

Banks in the way in which they

aided with huge loans in the so-called

“re-settlement programs’ wherein

whole areas were seized and _ their

populations evicted to make room for

the settlement of “ethnic’’ Germans.

Most of the original populations were

taken to Germany for forced labor,

US Military Government realized
from the beginning of our occupation
of Germany that the military defeat
of Germany could only be effective,
and long term, if it was linked with
measures to break up the network of
evil control exercised by the banks.
This policy was implemented in the
Potsdam Declaration, and American
MG officials planned a new decentra-
lized banking system, which they
undertook to leave in the hands of
German authorities for organization
and éxecution.

However, the Germans displayed

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
a reluctance to get anything done.
Repeated efforts failed to. stimulate
them to undertake an _ effective
program, so it became apparent that
MG would have to intervene direct-
ly. The Land governments had failed
to come forward with adequate legis-
lation, and there were indications
that the Big Banks might succeed in
preserving their unity.

MG Law 57, a strong directive de-
signed to break up the dominating
influence of the. Big Banks, was
enacted in May 1947. It provides that
independent and disinterested custo-
dians be provided for these banks,
who will manage and administer the
property of the banks in the US
Zone; it requires that the names of
the banks be changed so that they
will be different in each Land; and
breaks up giro systems of the banks.
Successfully implemented, this law
can decentralize the branch bank
systems, in a democratically-organiz-
ed German economy.

Certain top officials of the Dresd-
ner Bank are facing indictment and
trial at Nuremberg for War Crimes.
Their indictment will, in effect, be
a token indictment of the entire
system by which the Big Banks
worked hand in hand with the Nazi
government to aggrandize a small
and selected element of chosen
“Aryan” Germans in Europe at the
cost of the vast majority of con-
quered peoples.

FIAT Discontinued

Effective 1 July, the 7748 Field In-
formation Agency, Technical, is dis-
continued, in accordance with EUCOM
letter, AG 322 GCT-AGO of 4 June
1947, The reassignment of personnel
and the disposal of equipment are pro-
vided in OMGUS General Orders
No. 54 of 23 June 1947.

Rail Traffic Increases
The number of railroad tickets sold
to American personnel for US Mi-
litary Payment Certificates by Ger-
man travel bureau offices shows
increase each week. These offices
are operating in most US Zone cities.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Red Cross Help for Needy -

GREEMENT between OMGUS and

the Leaque of Red Cross Societies
will permit importation of Red Cross
relief supplies into the US Zone for
needy Germans, it was announced by
William E, Grainger, League repre-
sentative in the US Zone, and the
Public Welfare Branch, IA&C Division.

The agreement, which has been ap-
proved by the Military Governor in
Berlin’and League officials in Geneva,
became operational 14 June. League
officials estimate that supplies will
start coming into Germany within a
month.

“A conservative estimate indicates
that 50 tons of relief supplies of all
kinds will come into Germany in the
first three month,” said Grainger.
“This rate will accélerate to more
than 100 tons by the last quarter of
the first year.”

Already, eight of the 61 national
Red Cross societies in the League
have indicated they have supplies
ready to send to Germany through the
League. The eight are: American Red
Cross, Australia, Lichtenstein, South
Africa, Argentinia, Brazil, Chile, and
Canada.

Every type of relief is expected to
be included in the shipments, with
the emphasis on food, clothing and
medical supplies.

JHE OMGUS-League agreement

provides that all supplies will be
channeled through the German Cen-
tral Committee under the Laenderrat
and the Laender Red Cross organiza-
tions in Bavaria, Hesse, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, and Bremen.

By distributing supplies through
Laender Red Cross agencies, Grain-
ger said, the League hopes to strength-
en the Red Cross in Germany, as
well as help the German people, He
explained that at present there is no
National German Red Cross. The
national organization was broken up
by the occupying powers because of
its complete domination by Nazis.

Grainger said the new agreement
provides the basis for the first Ame-
rican Red Cross contributions to the
German people. Previously, all ARC

18

assistance in Germany has been for
displaced persons.

This is the third agreement nego-
tiated by OMGUS with non-German.
agencies for the importation of relief
supplies in bulk for distribution by
approved German welfare agencies to
the most needy. Previous agreements
with CRALOG and the International
Committee of the Red Cross provide
for the receipt and distribution of
supplies from many relief agencies
in the United States, Switzerland, and
other European countries,

New Wire Service

Local and long distance telephone
and telegraph service to all points in
Germany is available to all members
of the US occupational forces and
individuals serving with the occupa-
tional forces, Communications Branch,
IA &C Division, OMGUS announced.

Both telephone and telegraph ser-
vice is available from class “B" tel-
ephone and from attended pay sta-
tions in’ all major cities in the US
Zone, at rest centers, and at leave
hotels. Local calls at attended pay
stations are five cents; and from class
“B" telephones are 1'/2 cents, which
is in addition to the basic rental fee
of from 45 to 90 cents per month de-~
pending on the size of the city. Long
distance telephone service for a three
minute call up to a distance of

~ 10 kilomters costs three cents; up to

15 kilometers 41/2 cents; up to 25 kilo-
meters six cents; up to 50 kilometers
nine cents; up to 75 kilometers
13/2 cents; up to 100 kilometers
18 cents. :

For ordinary local telegraph service
the fee is 1!/2 cents per word with
a minimum of 10 words, and for or-
dinary telegrams within Germany, the
fee is two cents per word, minimum
10 words.

Bearing Output Declines

Production of antifriction bearings
in US Zone is declining, principally
because of -absenteeism and acute
shortage of certain operating supplies.

30 JUNE 1947

--- Page 22 ---
GERMAN REACT

The .Stuttgarter Zeitung headlined
the Munich Conference of the Min-
isters-President: “The End of an IIlu-
sion.” It quoted a French Zone paper
which claimed that the fate of Ger-
many was finally sealed as a result
of the action of the Eastern ministers-
president, continuing:

“For the time being the longed-for
unity of Germany hat not material-
ized... Munich was only a kind of
epilogue to Moscow for politically
deaf people, a translation of Mosco-v
into German. Stubborn optimists will
now perhaps hope for the London
Conferencee in November. Bit it
cannot be assumed that the American-
Russian contrast will, in the meantime,
have turned into pure harmony,” |

“All speeches on German unity, the
ones given at Munich included, will
be more declarations as long as each
of the two great powers whose chess-
board is the world today, uses parts
of Germany as chessmen in their
game. (Not in a major role, we like
to forget again and again that we are
not the center of the world.) Even
the Potsdam Decisions, referred to
once in a while, cannot change any-
thing in that. They are antequated.”

The writer disputed the theory that
western and southern Germany could
not exist as an independent economic
unit: “Jt is better to vegetate capital-
isticaliy than to starve socialisti-
cally.”

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
pointed out the limited effectiveness
of the conference because of inade-
quate powers, but termed the result
as good. It also praised the effective
organization and ability of Minister-
President Ehard:

“These resolutions are nothing more
than eleven mournful songs, impressive
and touching, to attract the attention
of the world. And if people say the
Germans wail too much and assume
too great an air of importance, the
conference proved that they can
hardly do anything else in the present
situation.

30 JUNE 1947

Munich Results Reviewed

“As Minister-President Dr, Ehard
indicated, it is a little too simple to
shout to a drowning man from the
shore: ‘Don't lament and increase

" your importance.’ The German weak-

ness has been the result of criminal
ambition for German cmnipotence.
Hitler's successors, burdened with
troubles, are sitting on worn-out chairs
and can only go begging. May every-
one remember that criticism of the
German government, triumphantly in-
terwoven with malicious comparison,
has come fourteen years too late.”

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung felt the
Munich Conference was the last
chance to overcome the contrast be-
tween western and eastern Germany
—the “canyon without a bridge.” It
commented: 2

“Three of the five ‘Russian’ min-
isters-president were leading members
of the SPD until 1933, one (Paul) was
a Democrat, and the fifth (Dr. Hueb-
ner) is today one of the leaders of
LDP in the Eastern Zone. All of them
are seen as ‘Russians’ and represent-
atives of a foreign power when they
appear in a different zone.

“The fact that leading politicians of
the Western Zones are in turn defamed
as darkest reactionaries in the Eastern
Zone, is the other side of the coin.
This example shows most strikingly
how much we Germans have sep-
arated from each other, and how
little willingness there is for under-

standing the varying development of ~

countrymen of the other zones.”

Der Mannheimer Morgen comment-
ed: ‘The ‘resolutions’ worked out in
Munich are the combined cry of dis-
tress of a people that is desperately
struggling for its right to live...Even
if the ministers of the five Soviet Zone
Laender thought it necessary to re-
fuse their cooperation, under badly
disguised foreign pressure, the Munich
decisions concern their Laender as
well as the remnant of the German
people, The circumstances under
which the Soviet Zone ministers

19

ely like a bad come a comedy in
which they, or at least some of them,
played their part only half-heartedly.”

The Neue Presse (Coburg) expressing
a minority view, blames both western
and eastern ministers-president for
their intransigence, leaning more in
the direction of defending the eastern
ministers-president: “What gave Ger-
mans the right to get excited when
Marshall, Molotow, Bevin, and Bidault
could not come to an agreement on
German problems, if they themselves
were not able to declare their united
German will, but demonstrated their
discord? .. .”

The paper continued: “The proposal
of the Soviet Zone representatives to
begin the discussion on relief for Ger-
man distress with a discussion on
German unity can by no means be
denied a logical basis , . . Because
Moscow despaired against the contrast
between East and West, it was the
task of the German ministers-president
to give clear and distinct declaration
of what they the present represent-
atives of the German people, think
of German unity ... There was too
much tactics, too much diplomacy, too
much shifting. That concerns all, the
representatives of the West as well
as those of the East, who seemed to
hear the ‘voice of their master’ while
they were meant to raise their Ger-
man voice quite freely.”

The Schwaebische Donau Zeitung
(Ulm) considered the Munich Con-
ference a success in spite of the
“tTegrettable” absence of the Soviet
Zone ministers, and in spite of the
fact that it does not have executive
power. It said:

“The restrictions of sovereignty
impair the German government. Re-
cognizing the situation, expectations
should not be too high, and the Con-
ference could result only in resolu-
tions. To grant the German represent-
atives more freedom of action two
years after the war finished, is cer-
tainly not an unreasonable request to
the occupation forces.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Unity Plan Endorsed

Telegraf, British-licensed newspaper
in Berlin, printed an editorial favorable
to Secretary Marshall's endorsement
of a European Federation.

The Telegraf pointed out that the
reserved attitude shown by the United
States in various post-war conferences
has not done much to bring about
agreement among the big powers.
Since this has become plain, the Pres-
ident and Secretary of State have
now begun a new stage which will
be characterized by increased initia-
tive on the part of the United States
in order to make up for lost time,
the paper stated, noting as part of
the new impetus the suggestion made
by the United States to call together
a conference to discuss a European
federation.

The fact that this move is not
directed against the Soviet Union is
shown by the desire of the United
States to have the USSR participate
in the conference, said the paper, ob-
serving that the Marshall program
does not intend to exclude Russia,
though it is desired that Russia give
up her one-sided economic policy in
eastern Europe.

Noting that various circles
accuse the United States of
perialism, the paper declared:

“These circles would rather have
one continue the extreme nationalism
of the European splinter states in
order to be able to continue their
political business. One would rather
have America’s economic assistance
lost in European chaos so that all
those conditions could continue which
render any future help ineffective.”

will
im-

Corporal Punishment

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
expressed the belief that the quarrel
about corporal punishment in the Ba-
varian schools should not have been
made a subject of a poll. It said:

“While the young democracy is
still in a developing stage and every-
thing should be done in order to use
its freedom reasonably, the Bavarian
Educational Minister demonstrates
what this freedom is good for, viz:
to have people vote whether children
at least may be subject to physical

punishment when adults are no longer .

allowed to be subject to it.”

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Change 2 to Title 11, Industry, AG
014.12, OMGUS, 11 April 1947. Super-
sedes previous Title 11 and Change 1.
Text of new title issued same date.

Press Conferences, Staff Memoran-
dum No. 43, Hq EUCOM, 22 May
1947. Replaces USFET Staff Memo-
randum No. 36, 22 April 1946 as to
scope and authority.

Assignment of Military Posts and

Installations for Quartermaster
Supply, AG 600 CQM-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 3 June 1947. Lists key

supply points.

Personnel and Supply Movement
Estimate for July 1947, AG 370.5 RYT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 5 June 1947.

European Command Technical Ser-
vice Organization, AG 322. GSP-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 5 June 1947. Amends
EUCOM letter of 5 April 1947.

Report on Unemployment Insur-
ance, Manpower Memorandum No. 83,
OMGUS, 10 June 1947.

Circular No. 42, Hq EUCOM,
11 June 1947. Section I—Leaves,
Passes and Travel, amends EUCOM
Cir 9 of 1947. Section II—Gas Masks,
Replaces Sec II, USFET Cir.153 of
1946. Section IJI—Currency Conver-
sion, amends USFET Cir 19 of 1947.

Press Contact Officers, Staff Memo-

randum No. 46, Hq EUCOM, 11 June’

1947. Supersedes USFET Memoranda,
AG 000.7 SGS-AGO “Improving Me-
thods of Facilitating Efforts of Accre-
dited Correspondents to Obtain News
Promptly and Accurately,” of 12 No-
vember 1945 and 29 January 1946.
Circular No. 43, Hq EUCOM,
12 June 1947, Section I—Foreign Mi-
litary and Civilian Liaison Person-
nel, amends previous USFET circu-
lars on same subject. Section II—
Rotation of Military Personnel to the
US, replaces previous Hq USFET and
EUCOM circulars on same subject.
Troops and Schools, Training
Memorandum No. 1, Changes No. 1,

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters. .

Hq EUCOM? 13 June 1947. Revises

cettain paragraphs of Training
Memo 1 of 6 May 1947,
OMGUS Directives Concerning

Manpower, Manpower Memorandum
No. 82, OMGUS, 14 June 1947. Lists

.of directives affecting Manpower, is-

sued since 19 December 1946.

Disposition of Records, AG 313.6
(AG), OMGUS, 16 June 1947. Give
procedure for submitting report as re-
quired by EUCOM letter, AG 313.6
AGO-R of 15 April 1947.

Implementation of Control Council
Directive No. 52 Relative to Combat-
ting Veneral Disease, AG 010.6 (IA),
OMGUS, 16 June 1947.

Conference for Discussion of Docu-
ments Relating to Organization, AG
322 (CO), OMGUS, 17 June 1947. Con-
cerns documents previously circulated
for comment and revision.

Implementation of Control Council
Law No. 53, Amendment to the In-
surance Tax Law of 9 July 1937,,AG
010.6 (FD), OMGUS, 18 June 1947.

Office Hours, Staff Memorandum
No, 29, OMGUS, 18 June 1947.
Amends Staff Memorandum No. 20,
OMGUS, 16 April. 1947 as to Duty
Officer.

Collection of Classified Waste,
Staff Memorandum No. 30, OMGUS;
19 June 1947. :

Internees Documents

In cases involving persons released
for trial in their home communities,
an OMGUS cable of 12 June gave
instructions for the Minister for Po-
litical Liberation that the public pro-
secutor of the internment enclosure
must notify the public prosecutor of .
the home community and forward the
internees Meldebogen and investiga-
tion file to him for appropriate action
before the local trial tribunal.

Such documents should not be
turned over to the internee for delivery
to the public prosecutor of the home
community, the cable said. If any
internees have already been released
without notification to the public pro-
secutors of the home communities,
“see to it that the files are forwarded
immediately.”

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF

--- Page 24 ---
IKLLRIGHSTADT.

COBURG Ronn we x

Thor
STEINACH shincHBERG

AFFENGURE>
ARLSTADT BAYREUTH
BURG %
rz ESCHENBACH JWeEIDEN-
NEUSTADT
TENBERG SGHEINFELO

UFFENHEIM

ANSBACH

OINKELSBUHL

‘WEISSENBURG

a

CHROBEN pneu
HAUSEN

WALLERS!
ROTTENBURG

TLSBIBURG

KEMPTEN

GARMISCH
PARTEN
KIRCHEN

SONTHOFEN

--- Page 25 ---
