--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 92 / 12 MAY 1947

--- Page 3 ---
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG
BIEDEN-
ere MARBURG
ae LAUTERBACH

FRIEDBERG

FRANKENBERG | FRITZLAR cay

OBER =
LAHNKREIS

BODINGEN

QBERTAUNUS|
WIESBADEN, (Rancroge

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

DARMSTAD’

OFSHEIM
EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAC
HEILBRONN
~ }

Bs BACKNANG

oe a
BOBLINGEN Frases

ERBACH

BERGSTRASSE

PEORZHEIM

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFOR

‘Moscow to Washington, Secretary of State
‘George Marshall stopped in Berlin, giving
ists Ki es ce : TABLE OF CONTENTS

‘on results of the Council of Foreign Mi-
nisters meeting. General Marshall's com-  —

plete public report on the Moscow Con- Jeacher Training scan". 8 aps sine” es Ce ea ae
erence appears in this issue. |
‘ ; Public U Hee ees pie "2 oe ER es ae aa

OUR CONTRIBUTORS | : Youth Helles gk ON ee a

‘Teacher Training, written by John Fred- Moscow: Gonference yi ysis oes eis ee
eric Kraus of the Education and Religious
Atfairs Branch, IA&C, traces the change PieesandsRadio? ss «20°. sch Bt Guess
from emergency measures after the close
of the war, tee more peananent Sauces OMGUS Employee Suggestion-Awards Program . . 11
tional methods in force today which are
designed to raise the standards of the Ger-
man teaching profession.

Material for Public Utilities, submitted by
the Public Utilities Section, Economics Di- _ Offictal Instructions) 23) 2) F629 SIS Fans
vision, gives an up-to-date picture of Ger-
man electric power and manufactured gas Station Listings so!) «| acs raul ole agmeatly,
production.

Youth Hostels was prepared by Dr. L, E.

Norrie of the Education and Religious
. Affairs Branch, IA&C, to describe the revival
of the hosteling movement in Germany.

George Mayer is the Executive Secretary
of the OMGUS Employee Suggestion-Awards
_Program and creator of OMGUS' “Gus,” the
cartoon character who has advertised the
Program throughout the American Sector. OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
Animated signatures have been Mr. Mayer's CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY
hobby for over 20 years.

German iReactionss:2 . baiisihyiaiane “ads, <deltscds

--- Page 5 ---
jupplying US Zone schools. with

qualified and properly-trained
teachers has been one of the thorniest
problems confronting officials in the
Education and Religious Affairs Branch,
OMGUS.

It is openly acknowledged that the
quality of teaching in German schools
today is far below former standards—
a condition resulting from the cata-
clysmic changes brought about by the
end of the war. A large percentage of
the younger and abler teachers have
been eliminated by denazification pro-
cedures; practically all heads and
supervisors of schools have been
ousted; books, paper, maps, and other

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

By John Frederic Kraus

materials of instruction are in ex-
tremely short supply; classes fre-
quently are maintained only on part-
time schedules; each teacher has an
excessive pupil load; the accelerated
professional training of emergency
teachers is inadequate; and the super-
annuation among teachers in general
reduces efficiency (the average age of
male teachers ranges from 55 to 40
years).

Back in the days of the imperial
Hohenzollerns, the educational system
put great stress on German nationalism
and imperialism, but it is true that in
the days of the Republic a sincere
attempt was made to give the edu-

2

Signal Corps Photo

cational system a more democratic
character. This aim, however, was
never fully realized, since the teachers
continued to pay tribute to the deeply-
rooted chauvinistic thinking that in-
fluenced their whole behavior in the
classroom.

Under the Nazi regime the entire
educational program was devoted to
ensuring the instruction of German
youth in the spirit of National So-
cialism, thereby moulding them solidly
to the selfish wishes of an authoritarian
state from the beginning years of their
lives. Heavy pressure was applied in
drawing teachers and school adminis-
trators into the ranks of the Nazi

12 MAY 1947

--- Page 6 ---
party. In the country areas, where
there were fewer teachers per com~-
munity than in the cities, it was
practically mandatory to join the
party; otherwise "an instructor might
be replaced by a party member. The
Nazis recognized the importance of a
teacher’s position ina small town, and
they took few chances with those who
were not political followers.

In the early days of the reopening
of schools in the US Zone, it was
impossible to make any particular
selection of teaching personnel, since
the denazification process stripped the
schools of approximately 60 percent
of their teachers. The percentage
fluctuated from as low as 30 percent
in the urban areas to as high as 80 per-
cent in the rural districts. Conse-
quently, in order to meet the sudden
overwhelming teacher shortage, any-
one who was interested—teacher or
layman—and who could meet the anti-
Nazi requirements was appointed as
an assistant or emergency teacher.
Many of these persons, although quite
well educated, were without pro-
fessional preparation for or acquaint-
ance with school work. Short training
courses, ranging from a few weeks to
three months in duration, were estab-
lished to run simultaneously with
actual teaching or were prerequisite
to appointment. Such procedures were
followed throughout the zone.

They were emergency measures. To
carry out a positive, long-range policy
for continual. educational improve-
ment, 39 training colleges for new
teachers have been established in US-
occupied territory. Bavaria has 21,
Hesse. eight, Wuerttemberg-Baden
nine, and Bremen one. Regular courses
ranging from one to three years have
been established at these’ institutes—
all for the training of elementary
school teachers—and close to 3,000
students will have graduated by the
end of 1947.

Approximately one-third of these
colleges are actually on a university
level at the present time and all
candidates for admission must have
had secondary school education before
they can be accepted. The others,
primarily in traditional-minded Ba-
varia, accept pupils only from the
elementary schools and serve the
purpose. of combined secondary edu-

12 MAY 1947

cation-teacher training schools. Steps,
however, are being taken to dispense
eventually with the latter training,
which is considered inadequate both
for the general and professional edu-
cation of teachers.

Practices in training vary. Some-
times the scheme requires that a
teacher receive first a period of
practice as teacher assistant before
assuming his role of student of pro-
fessional theory at one of the in-
stitutes. Or the reverse may be true:
first the theory, then the practice.
During the preliminary period of
practice teaching the candidate works
with one of the more competent
teachers of his specific district. Each
week he visits the training center for
lectures and discussions. After a year
of such experience he attends a
teachers college for full-time study,
and his place in the field is taken by
a new candidate or by a new teachers-
college graduate.

The democratizing of Germany
through education will have to be
accomplished largely by the younger
generation, since most teachers over
the age of 55 have neither the strength
nor the point of view to bring about
the desired reform.

The curricula of teacher training
institutes are being carefully super-
vised by Military Government, since
they play a basic role in giving the
teacher-to-be democratic methods of
instruction and in promoting demo-
cratic ways of thinking that can be
passed on to the young pupil who is
of the generation that will determine
Germany's behavior in future years.
MG Regulations provide that “the
content of the teacher-education cur-
ticula_should be so designed as to
insure the development of a profes-
sionally-capable generation of tea-
chers with reference to their own
personal. development, their activity
as citizens in a democratic society,
and their professional skill. The
forms and methods of teaching and
learning are to be so designed as to
promote democratic modes of be-
havior, initiative and resourcefulness,
and attitudes of tolerance, The aca-
demic. administration and_ student
organization, as phases of the curri-
culum, should be so set up as to
promote democratic attitudes among

3

administrative officials, faculty mem-
bers, and students.”

Unfortunately the schools are
now dominated by very old teachers,
averaging in age between 50 and 60,
who already have had to make adjust-
ment to four different educational
points of view during their careers:
the Hohenzollern doctrine; the quasi-
democratic theories of the Republic;
the destructive Nazi ideology; and
now a democracy which they are in-
capable of embracing in their advan-
ced years.

It is not American policy to operate
or dictate to the German schools or to
make detailed demands on their or-
ganization. The Germans themselves,
however, have urged that MG assume
a more active and constructive role in
the work of reorganization. Without
indicating how assistance can or
should be given and remain within
the pertinent MG directives, com-
petent German educators who are
closely acquainted with the situation
have suggested that the following
measures, if taken by Americans,
would be of great importance in im-
proving the conditions now prevail-
ing: provision for revetting all teachers
in order to recover as many able
teachers as possible; admission of
young candidates to the training
colleges, the training period to deter-
mine whether the candidate is politi-
cally acceptable; availability of Ameri-
can and English professional books,
magazines, and materials that will
provide the basis for an understand-
ing of English and American demo-
cracy at work—perhaps a central
American professional library; lectures
and discussions under visiting Ameri-
can professors; curriculum conferences
upon the reorganization of school
programs and school life; education of
a large number of young Germans in
democratic countries, at a very early
date; permission for the organization
of teachers’ professional societies and
publication of educational periodicals;
and professional libraries at training
centers. To date, all of these sug-
gestions either have already been
realized or—in regard to the education
of Germans in democratic countries,
for example—are to be implemented
as soon as possible.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---


--- Page 8 ---
Germany’s electric power system
before the war was designed accord-
ing to a nation-wide efficiency plan
which is useful even in its disrupted
condition today. Two 200,000 volt lines
serve as the backbone of the German
power network. One 220,000 volt line
runs north and south through the
western part of Germany, connecting
Western Austria (Vorarlberg) and the
Upper Rhine hydro plants with steam
plants located in the Ruhr and other
points in north and western Germany.
The other 220,000 volt line extends
north and south through eastern Ger-
many. The two lines are tied together
by an East-West connection construct-
ed in the north, which is entirely
within the British and Russian Zones.

The fundamental purpose of the two
North-South lines with the inter-con-
necting East-West line in the north
was to utilize to the fullest extent the
power generated in the hydro plants
in the southern section of Germany
and Western Austria along the Alpine
rivers during the summer, or high-
water season, and the power gene-
rated by steam plants burning brown
coal in the Saxonian, Middle German,
and Ruhr brown coal districts during
the winter, or low-water season. This
allows for the burning of the least
possible amount of hard coal,

Since the amount of energy from
the southern hydro plants is lange in
the summer and small in the winter,
the flow of energy in. the summer
was from the south to the north and
in the winter from the north to the
south, By this arrangement, and with

Berlin Gasworks.

i

oy LZR

the East-West tie line in the north to
balance the surplus cheap power avail-
able in either the east or the west,
it was possible before Germany was
divided into four zones with the con-
sequent disruption of the system, to
save thousands of tons of hard coal
yearly which otherwise would have
been burned in the hard-coal steam
plants to meet the power require-
ments of Germany as a whole,

The Saxonia and Middle-German
brown coal steam plants were par-
tially destroyed during the war, and
after the war a large part of the gene-
rating equipment was removed from
these plants by the Soviets. Also re-
moved was one of the circuits from
the 220,000 volt line through the So-
viet Zone north of Remptendorf, which
eliminated the flow of power south to
Bavaria and Austria during the winter
when it is urgently required. This
limits the amount of power which may
be sent north from the surplus hydro
generation available during the sum-
mer months. Due to these altered cir-
cumstances brought about by the war
and to the high value placed on hard
coal in connection with the import-
export plan, the small amount of
hydro power available in the south
during the winter has increased in
value to German economy and the
summer surplus power has decreased

_in value.

The decrease in power generation
of plants in Germany shows in statis-
tics the reduced efficiency resulting
from the war. Since it is estimated
that less than one-tenth of one per-

Most of Germany's gas is manufactured from coal

with water gas added. About 60 percent of it goes for cooking, hot-water

heating, and other domestic purposes.

Photo by Byers

cent of the combined Anglo-American
bomb load was dropped on electric
utilities, this decrease in power re-
sults largely from lack of coal and
disruption of the prewar power net-
work. In 1941 there were public utili-
ties and industrial plants generating
a total of 69,999 million kilowatt
hours, while in 1946 this figure drop-
ped to 28,994 million KWH. Even
though industry was operating at less
than 50 percent of the authorized
level, this generation proved wholly
inadequate, particularly during the
winter months, Severe restrictions on
the use of electric power were neces-
sary both for domestic and industrial
uses,

The Allied Control Authority has
set a level of 9 million KW generat-
ing capacity for 1949, but this figure
is not expected to permit industry to
resume production at authorized lev-
els. A recent study of requirements
indicate 48 million KWH, or 13.5 mil-
lion KW will be necessary in 1949, If
the present level of industry is re-
vised upward, there will have to be
a corresponding revision in the elec-
tric power requirements.

Gas, an allied product, generally
consists in Germany of manufactured
gas, the greater part of it being coal
gas with water gas added to bring
the calorific value down to the stand-
ards maintained. Normal heating
value of the gas is 4,250 heat units per
cubic meter, Coal gas is produced in
the conventional-type ovens, cham-
bers, or retorts, Water gas is produced
in conjunction with coal gas, and this
production is sometimes independent
of the coal gas plant, but in many
instances is produced while the coke
is still in the batteries, ovens, or re-
torts. As is true in every country the
largest plants are located where the
concentration of population exists;
so that in general there will be a
small number of large plants and a
large number of small plants. As an
example, two-thirds of the US Zone
gas production is in less than 10 per-
cent of the number of plants.

In addition to the gas works pro-
duction, coke-oven gas also is avail-
able which is collected from coke
plants at various mines and steel
mills, and transported through high

(Continued on page 15)

--- Page 9 ---
Even at present inflationary values,
70 million RM is quite a large sum
of money. That was the reported size
of the war-time bank deposits of the
German youth hostels, revealing the
importance the Nazi regime attached
to traveling youth groups of Germany
and the chain of overnight lodges
operated for their use. Now, stripped
of its strongly nationalist traits, the
hostel movement returns to its pur-
pose of earlier days—to provide youth
with a wholesome outlet for its spirit
of adventure.

Hosteling is not an old movement,
although the wanderlust of youth may
be old. Born in Altena castle in the
Sauerland in 1910, the movement
spread rapidly until by 1919 it boast-
ed 300 hostels in Germany. In 1933
there were 2,125 stopover rest spots.
Soon after Naziism spread over Ger-
many the hosteling movement was
welded into the pattern of the Hitler
Jugend.

Like other institutionalized move-
ments in Germany, hosteling was
strongly affected by the war. Of the
1,130 hostels in the three western
zones only 150 today are useable as
hostels and about half of these are
serving as hospitals, housing projects,
and rest camps. The huge war-time
bank account is gone, too—confiscat-

Boys and girls learn about nature at
a fresh-air camp in Wilmersdorf,
Berlin. Young people cut wood, do
errands for various communities to
get provisions for their hostels.

Signal Corps Photo

ed under the Allied Control Council
Law Number 2.

There has been, however, a genuine
effort to revive hosteling in Germany
along democratic lines, and lodges
are being reopened as fast as they
can be repaired or released from other
uses. Hosteling finds particularly
faithful followers. A group of home-
less youths have reconstructed a hostel
near Wiesbaden and have reactivated
the youth castle Breuberg near Weu-
stadt. With the help of tents, cots,
and transportation received from the
US Army the Limburg youth hostel
also was opened. Groups of young
people cut wood for various communi-
ties to secure a share of the wood to
heat their hostels. Song-books, games,
utensils for cooking, and other essen-
tial materials have been collected by
interested young folk who feel the

importance of reviving hosteling in
Germany. More than 3,000 beds have
been furnished by the US Army. Extra
food rations have been granted by
German officials in Bavaria to mem-
bers of leadership training courses.

Today, there are 55 lodges open in
the American Zone of Germany for
youth hosteling purposes. Most of
them are old mills, ancient castles,
and farm houses. A typical hostel—
the Forest Lantern—is located at
Salenburg in the Bavarian Forest. It
is particularly popular among German
young people, partly for its history as
a knights’ castle and partly for its
superb location in the forest. Well-
known even before 1933, it was re-
turned again this year to youth groups
and has been used chiefly for singing
meets and gatherings of group leaders.
Its many rooms and simple, comfort-
able furnishings are well suited for
such meetings. Part of the time it
still must be used to house refugees,
but next year it is to be kept entirely ©
for hikers and conferences. Leader-
ship training institutes also are con-
ducted at the Forest Lantern from time
to time by the Land Youth Committee
and youth agencies.

Another beautiful youth hostel is
situated in Urfeld on an open hill
with a view of the Walchensee and
the Karwendel mountains. This is on
the much-frequented route which
leads to the heart of the Bavarian
Alps, to Mittenwald, to Garmisch-
Partenkirchen, and the final goal of
the Zugspitze, known all over the
world. The hostel is built in the style
of the Bavarian mountain chalets. Ori-

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 10 ---
oslo
YifENHUe

Secretary of State Marshall in a
nationwide radio address outlined the
problems faced by and the results of
the recently concluded Council of
Foreign Ministers Conference in Mos-
cow. Full text follows:

Lee ee I hope to make clearly
understandable the fundamental
nature of the issues discussed at the
Moscow Conference of Foreign
Ministers.

This conference dealt with the very
heart of the peace for which we are
struggling. It dealt with the vital
center of Europe—Germany and Aus-
tria—an area of large and skilled
population, of great resources and in-
dustrial plants, an area which has
twice in recent times brought the
world to the brink of disaster. In the
Moscow negotiations all the dis-
agreements which were so evident
during the conferences regarding the
Italian and Balkan treaties came into
sharp focus and remained in effect
unsolved.

Problems which bear directly on
the future of our civilization cannot
be disposed of by general talk or vague
formulae—by what Lincoln called
“pernicious abstractions.” They re-
quire concrete solutions for definite
and extremely complicated questions
—questions which have to do with
boundaries, with power to prevent

12 MAY 1947

military aggression, with people who
have bitter memories, with the pro-
duction and control of things which
are essential to the lives of millions
of people. You have been kept well
informed by the press and radio of
the daily activities of the Council, and
much of what I have to say may seem
tepetitious. But the extremely com-
plicated nature of the three major
issues we considered makes it appear
desirable for me to report in some de-
tail the problems as I saw them in my
meetings at the conference table.

There was a reasonable possibility,
we had hoped a probability, of com-
pleting in Moscow a peace treaty for
Austria and a four-power pact to bind
together our four governments to
guarantee the demilitarization of Ger-
many. As for the German peace treaty
and related but more current German
problems, we had hoped to reach
agreement on a directive for the
guidance of our Deputies in their
work preparatory to the next con-
ference,

In a statement such as this, it is not
practicable to discuss the numerous
issues which continued in disagree-
ment at the Conference. It will suffice,
I think, to call attention to the funda-
mental problems whose solution would
probably lead to the quick adjustment
of many other differences,

7

It is important to an understanding
of the conference that the complex
character of the problems should be
understood, together with their
immediate effect on the people of
Europe in the coming months.

Coal

To cite a single example, more coal is
mosturgently needed throughoutEurope
for factories, for utilities, for railroads,
and for the people in their homes.
More coal for Allied countries cannot
be mined and delivered until the
damaged mines, mine machinery, rail-
road communications and like facili-
ties are rehabilitated. This rehabili-
tation, however, depends on more steel,
and more steel depends in turn on
more coal for steel making. Therefore,
and this is the point to be kept in
mind, while the necessary rehabili-
tation is in progress, less coal would
be available in the immediate future
for the neighboring Allied states.

But less coal means less employ-
ment for labor, and a consequent
delay in the production of goods for
export to bring money for the pur-
chase of food and necessities. There-
fore, the delay necessary to permit
rehabilitation of the mines so vitally
affects France that the settlement of
this matter has become for her a
critical issue. All neighboring states
and Great Britain and the Soviet
Union are directly affected in various

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
ways since coal is required for Ger-
man production of goods for export
sufficient to enable her to buy the
necessary imports of foods, et celera,
for much of which the United States is
now providing the funds.

Moreover, in the background of this
coal issue, which is directly related to
steel production, is the important
consideration of the build-up of heavy
industry in Germany, which could
later again become a threat to the
peace of the world. I cite this single
example to illustrate the complications
which are involved in these negoti-
ations.

Germany

The Allied Control Council in Ber-
lin presented a detailed report of the
many problems concerned with the
political, military, economic, and fi-
nancial situation under the present
Military Government of Germany. In
connection with these matters, the
Ministers considered the form and
scope of the provisional political or-
ganization for Germany, and the
procedure to be followed in the prep-
aration of the German peace treaty.

The German negotiations involved
not only the security of Europe and
the world, but the prosperity of all of
Europe. While our mission was to
consider the terms of a treaty to
operate over a long term of years, we
were faced with immediate issues
which vitally concerned the impov-
erished and suffering people of
Europe who are crying for help, for
coal, for food and for most of the
necessities of life, and the majority of
whom are bitterly disposed towards
the Germany that brought about this
disastrous situation. The issues also
vitally concern the people of Britain
and the United States who cannot con-
tinue to pour out hundreds of millions
of dollars for Germany because cur-
rent measures were not being taken
to terminate expeditiously the neces-
sity for such appropriations.

The critical and fundamental Ger-
man problems to which I shall con-
fine myself are: (a) The limits to the
powers of the central government;
(b) the character of the economic
system and its relations to all of
Europe; (c) the character and extent
of reparations; (d) the boundaries for

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the German State; and (e) the manner
in which all Allied States at war with
Germany are represented in the draft-
ing and confirmation of the treaty.

All the members of the Council of
Foreign Ministers are in apparent
agreement as to the establishment of
a German State on a self-supporting,
democratic basis, with limitations im-
posed to prevent the re-establishment
of military power.

Central Government

This issue of the degree of cen-
tralization of the future German state
is of greatest importance. Excessive
concentration of power is peculiarly
dangerous in a country like Germany
which has no strong traditions regard-
ing the rights of the individual and
the rights of the community to control
the exercise of governmental power.
The Soviet Union appears to favor a
strong central government. The Unit-
ed States and United Kingdom are
opposed to such a government, be-
cause they think it could be too
readily converted to the domination of
a regime similar to the Nazis. They
favor a central government of care-
fully limited powers, all other powers
being reserved to the states, or Laen-
der as they are called in Germany.
The French are willing to agree only
to very limited responsibilities for the
central government. They fear a rep-
etition of the seizure of power over
the whole of Germany carried out by
the Hitler regime in 1933,

Under ordinary circumstances there
are ‘always strong and differing points
of view regarding the character of a
governmental reorganization. In this
case there are great and justifiable
fears regarding the resurrection of
German military power, and concern
over expressed or concealed desires
for quite other reasons.

Germany Economy

Regarding the character of the Ger-
man economic system and its relation
to all of Europe, the disagreements
are even more serious and difficult of
adjustment. German economy at the
present time is crippled by the fact
that there is no unity of action, and
the rehabilitation of Germany to the
point where she is self-supporting de-
mands immediate decision.

8

There is a declared agreement in
the desire for economic unity in Ger-
many but when it comes to the actual
terms to regulate such unity there are
wide and critical differences. One of
the most serious difficulties encounter-
ed in the effort to secure economic
unity has been the fact that the Soviet-
occupied Zone has operated practi-
cally without regard to the other
zones and has made few if any re-
ports of what has been occurring in
that zone, There has been little or no
disposition to proceed on a basis of
reciprocity and there has been a re-
fusal to disclose the availability of
foodstuffs, and the degree or character
of reparations taken out of this zone.

This unwillingness of the Soviet
authorities to cooperate in establish-
ing a balanced economy for Germany
as agreed upon at Potsdam has been
the most serious check on the develop-
ment of a self-supporting Germany,
and a Germany capable of providing
coal and other necessities for the
neighboring states who have always
been dependent on Germany for these
items. After long und futile efforts to
secure a working accord in this
matter, the British and American
Zones were combined for the im-
provement of the economic situation,
meaning the free movement of excess
supplies or produce available in one
zone to another where there is a
shortage. Our continuing invitation to
the French and Soviets to join in the
arrangement still exists. This merger
is bitterly attacked by the Soviet
authorities as a breach of thé Potsdam
Agreement and as a first step towards
the dismemberment of Germany, ignor-
ing the plain fact that their refusal to
carry out that agreement was the sole
cause of the merger. It is difficult to
tegard their attacks as anything but
propaganda designed to divert atten-
tion from the Soviet failure to imple-
ment the economic unity agreed at
Potsdam. Certainly some progress
toward economic unity in Germany is
better than none.

The character of the control over
the Ruhr industrial center, the greatest
concentration of coal and heavy in-
dustries in Europe, continues a matter
of debate. It cannot be decided mere-

(Continued on page 10)

12 MAY 1947

--- Page 12 ---
Germans not Changing

Erika Mann, author, lecturer, war
correspondent, and daughter of Thom-
as Mann, Nobel Prize winning nov-
elist, says that the reeducation of
Germans has been a failure thus far.
This unencouraging report, made to
the New York Herald Tribune, is based
on a first-hand study of Europe by
Miss Mann and last-minute advices
from her personal acquaintances in
the occupied areas.

“It is now nearly two years after
V-E Day,” says Miss Mann, “but not
the slightest hint of a new spirit is to
be observed either in the adults or
the children. So far as the older stu-
dents are concerned, the re-orien-
tation of their ideas appears a hope-
less task.

“Teacher and parent seem to be
encouraging the youngsters to think
that under Hitler they had homes,
clothes, prosperity and cakes, and
that these can only be recovered with
the restoration of a similar leader or
regime. Despite every effort we make
at friendliness, even the children hate
our people, although they present a
civil front...

“T am of the opinion that never
should we have based all our educa-
tional propaganda on the assertion
that ‘We bring you democracy.’ In-
stead, we should have followed up
General Eisenhower's truthful and
sensible announcement that ‘We come
as conquerors’ with the equally and
inescapable conclusion that ‘We bring
you defeat.’

“Supposing that no mistakes had
been made. Supposing our occu-
pation and education policies had
been as wise, consistent, benevolent,
firm, patient and farseeing as could
be, should we have succeeded in
turning Hitler's Germans into peace-
loving democrats? I firmly maintain
that we should have failed even then.
The German state of mind is a state
of mind which defies education.

“Unless and until the German
people are made to understand that
the road they have come ever since

12 MAY 1947

Bismarck—if not since Frederick
the Great—is blocked, and that the
unyielding determination of a united
world will keep it blocked for decades
to come, they will stay on that road,
bent on removing whatever obstacles
may temporarily prevent them from
forging ahead.”

Farewell to Prussia

The dissolution of the State of
Prussia is a blow to traditional mili-
tarism, according to the Boston Globe
which discusses the Allied Control
Council decree in a recent editorial:

“Tt was in Prussia that the Hohen-
zollerns emerged, toward the close of
the Middle Ages, to a position of dom-
inating power. There appeared the
earliest lineaments of the doctrine of
war with which Prussia became asso-
ciated. Frederick the Great stamped
the design unmistakably upon the
map of Central Europe, not only by
inaugurating the beginnings of the
famous general staff tradition, but
also by instituting the Prussian bureau-
cracy—that elaborate, meticulous,
patient, and indefatigable: civil service
system which, as decades sped, pro-
vided the organizational instrument
that welded politics and economics
into unified support of the military
atm.

“Prussia’s history, since the days of
the French Revolution, has been a
chronicle covering the consistent de-
velopment of the power thus foreshad-
owed. There were a few aberrations,
but these were soon corrected. As the
prowess of Prussia grew, and with it
her economic strength, so did her con-
fines. By the close of the Franco-
Prussian war, Bismarck was ready to
consolidate what had been an almost
fantastic congeries of petty kingdoms
and duchies into the German Empire,
with the Hohenzollerns at its helm.
The transformation left many elements
of division. It was still too early,
even for the organizing genius of the
Prussians, to erase them all. But it
was too late to halt the progress of

9

which was the logical q f Prussian-
ism, with its tight combination of
Junker militarists and chimney Jun-
kers, under the all-powerful general
staff. An Austrian fanatic carried the
sinister drama to its climax—and
disaster.

It is, of course, too early to guess
what Germany will look like, as a
nation, after the peace settlements...
Dissolution of the State of Prussia,
however, should help. By breaking
up the most powerful and dangerous
of the centers of Germany's war
mania, and creating separate prov-
inces from its parts, the Allies may
strengthen the roles of German prov-
inces less addicted to aggression.

Prussia, as a whole, symbolizes mili-
tarism at its savage worst. In the
Ruhr and Rhineland problem, the other
half of the danger is centered. The
Prussian State throve not merely be-
cause of the obsession of its war-
makers. It flourished because these
worked in close combination with a
diplomacy staffed from among the
Junker families, and with an industry
integrated to both through the chim-
ney Junkers or industrialists. Thus
the Ruhr typifies the other end of this
combination. That is why it is so
important to settle this issue wisely
too”.

The Kansas City Times is particu-
larly concerned with what will now
be done to reeducate the Prussian
mind:

It would seem imperative ... to
destroy Prussian control over German
policy in the future. But whether the
mere dictated disappearance of a polit-
ical unit which under the Weimar
republic included more than half the
total area of Germany would accom-
plish that objective is another matter.
For Prussia, in the familiar phrase, is
also a state of mind. Whatever the
region is called, it will be inhabitated
by the same people, the product of
the same conditioning in absolute
obedience to authority, in the worship
of war as an instrument of national

(Continued on page 15)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Moscow (Cont'd from p. 8)

ly for the purpose of reaching an
agreement. Vitally important con-
siderations and future consequences
are involved.

Reparations

The question of reparations is of
critical importance as it affects almost
every other question under discussion.
This issue naturally makes a tremen-
dous appeal to the people of the Allied
States who suffered the terrors of
German military occupation and the
destruction of their cities and villages.

The results of the Versailles Treaty
of 1919 regarding payment of repa-
rations on a basis of dollars, and the
difficulties encountered by the Rep-
arations commission appointed after
Yalta in agreeing upon the dollar
evaluation of reparations in kind con-
vinced President Truman and his ad-
visers considering the question at
Potsdam that some other basis for
determining reparations should be
adopted if endless friction and bitter-
ness were to be avoided in future
years. They succeeded in getting
agreement to the principle of repa-
rations to be rendered out of capital
assets—that is, the transfer of Ger-
man plants, machinery, et cetera, to
the Allied Powers concerned.

It developed at the Moscow Con-
ference that the Soviet officials flatly
disagreed with President Truman’s
and Mr. Byrnes’ understanding of the
written terms of this agreement. The
British have much the same view of
this matter as the United States.

We believe that no reparations from
current production were contemplated
by the Potsdam Agreement. The So-
viet strongly oppose this view. They
hold that the previous discussions and
agreements at Yalta authorize the tak-
ing of billions of dollars in reparations
out of current production. This would
mean that a substantial portion of the
daily production of German factories
would be levied on for reparation pay-
ments, which in turn would mean that
the recovery of Germany sufficiently
to be self-supporting would be long
delayed. It would also mean that the
plan and the hope of our government,
that Germany’s economic recovery
by the end of three years would per-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

mit the termination of American
appropriations for the support of the
German inhabitants of our zone, could
not be realized.

Boundaries

The issue is one of great compli-
cations, for which agreement must be
found in order to administer Germany
as an economic whole as the Four
Powers claim that they wish to do.

There is, however, general agree-
ment among the Allies that the matter
of the factories and equipment to be
removed from Germany as reparations
should be re-examined. They recog-
nize the fact that a too drastic re-
duction in Germany’s industrial set-up
will not only make it difficult for Ger-
many to become self-supporting but
will retard the economic recovery of
Europe. The United States has in-
dicated that it would be willing to
study the possibility of a limited
amount of reparations from current
production to compensate for plants,
previously scheduled to be removed

as reparations to various Allied
Countries, which it now appears
should be left in Germany; it being

understood that deliveries from cur-
rent production are not to increase
the financial burden of the occupying
powers or to retard the repayment to
them of the advances they have made
to keep the Germany economy from
collapsing. The Soviet Government
has made no response to this sug-
gestion.

The issue regarding boundaries to
be established for Germany presents
a serious disagreement and another
example of complete disagreement as
to the meaning of the pronouncement
on this subject by the heads of the
Three Powers. In the rapid advance
of the Soviet Armies in the final phase
of the war, millions of Germans in
eastern Germany fled to the west of
the Oder River. The Soviet Armies,
prior to Potsdam, had placed Poles in
charge of this area largely evacuated
by the German population. That was
the situation that confronted Presi-
dent Truman at Potsdam. Under the
existing circumstances, the President
accepted the situation for the time
being with the agreed Three-Power
statement, “The Heads of government

10

reaffirm their opinion that the final
delimitation of the western frontier
of Poland should await the peace
settlement.”

The Soviet Foreign Minister now
states that a final agreement on the
frontier between Germany and Poland
was reached at Potsdam and the ex-
pression I have just quoted merely
referred to the formal confirmation of
the already agreed-upon frontier at
the peace settlement, thus leaving
only technical delimitation to be con-
sidered.

The United States Government rec-
ognized the commitment made at
Yalta to give fair compensation to
Poland in the west for the territory
east of the Curzon Line incorporated
into the Soviet Union. But the per-
petuation of the present temporary
line between Germany and Poland
would deprive Germany of territory
which before the war provided more
than a fifth of the foodstuffs on which
the German population depended. It
is clear that in any event Germany
will be obliged to support, within much
restricted boundaries, not only her
prewar population but a considerable
number of Germans from eastern
Europe. To a certain extent this
situation in unavoidable, but we must
not agree to its aggravation. We do
not want Poland to be left with less
resources than she had before the
war. She is entitled to MORE, but it
will not help Poland to give her
frontiers which will probably create
difficulties for her in the future.
Wherever the frontiers are drawn,
they should not constitute barriers to
trade and commerce upon which the
well-being of Europe is dependent. We
must look toward a future where a
democratic Poland and a democratic
Germany will be good neighbors.

Peace Treaty Procedure

There is disagreement regarding the
manner in which the Allied Powers at
war with Germany are to participate
in the drafting and confirmation of the
German Peace Treaty. There are 51
States involved. Of these, in addition
to the four principal Allied Powers,
18 were directly engaged in the fight-
ing, some of course to a much greater
extent than others. It is the position

(Continued on page 12)

12 MAY 1947

--- Page 14 ---
OMGUS EMPLOYEE
SUGGESTION-AWARDS
PROGRAM

Ihe OMGUS Employee Suggestion-

Awards Program, a zone-wide pro-
ject through which US and Allied
military and civilian personnel in Ger-
many are given the opportunity to
voice their suggestions for improving
some phase of the occupation, is play-
ing an important part in facilitating
MG's mission in Germany. Since the
inauguration of the program on
31 May 1946, more than 1,000 sugges-
tions have been submitted, of which
63 already have been adopted and at
least 200 more are currently under
consideration. As an incentive to the
harnessing of American ingenuity,
cash prizes ranging from five to 250
dollars are awarded for meritorious
suggestions.

Recent EUCOM decisions and an
OMGUS directive of 25 April 1947
make the OMGUS Central Board of
Judges the final authority on all sug-
gestions originating with eligible MG
personnel in the US Zone of Germany,
with procedures streamlined to speed
the interval between the date on
which a suggestion is proposed and
the date on which the originator of
a winning plan actually has the cash
prize in his pocket.

The Board meets weekly, often
evaluating as many as 30 or 40 sug-
gestions which have undergone
thorough investigation previously by
suggestion staff analysts and operating
officials. In the past three meetings
16 prizes of from five to 250 dollars
were awarded.

Suggestions have varied from train-
ing programs to re-orient German
thinking along democratic lines, to a
standard shoulder patch for American
officer and enlisted personnel in the
occupation army. These hundreds of
suggestions have been directed to-
ward saving time, lives, and money,
and improving morale, while at the
same time expediting the task of
Military Government in restoring
Germany to an economic and demo-
cratic level in line with the expressed
aims of the Allies.

One American believed that nei-
ther the spoken nor the written word
was enough to convince the more
skeptical Germans of the job the US
Government is doing to augment the
meager rations produced within the
zone. He suggested that motion pic-
tures be made of the ships being
loaded in America and unloaded in
Germany, and the movement of the
food to the German consumers. The
idea brought him a 250 dollars award.

When dependents of American mili-
tary and civilian personnel began
arriving in Germany last year, some
OMGUS employees felt that in-
sufficient emphasis was being placed
on telling the newcomers in advance
what they could expect in their mili-
tary communities. One employee
proposed certain improvements to the
orientation program for dependents
to help them make necessary read-
justment for their stay in Germany.
Military Government paid him 20
dollars for the idea.

WELL?

=

gost

SOMETHING

OMGUS EMPLOYEE SUGGESTIONS ansAWARDS PROGRAM

The hard water in Germany was
proving a hardship to hands as well
as to laundered clothes until the idea
was presented that OMGUS stock up on
water-softening materials. A lieuten-
ant colonel cashed in on that one.

The streets of the US Sector of
Berlin and of the US Zone in general
have been made safer for both pe-
destrians and motorists through the
suggestion of painting road barrier
signs with white paint so that they
would be more readily visible at
night. Another idea to minimize
traffic hazards was the posting of
signs regulating traffic in school
zones.

The shortage of calendars overseas
has always been acute. A suggestion
was made that a yearly calendar be
printed on the hitherto blank back
cover of the OMGUS telephone
directory.

(Continued on page 16)

WELL?

--- Page 15 ---
Moscow (cont'd from p. 10)

of the United States that all Allied
States at war with Germany should be
given an opportunity to participate to
some degree in the drafting and in
the making of the Peace Treaty, but
we recognize that there would be
very practical difficulties if not im-
possibilities in attempting to draft a
treaty with 51 nations participating
equally at all stages. Therefore, the
United States Government has en-
deavored to secure agreement on a
method which involves two different
procedures, depending on whether or
not the state concerned actually
participated in the fighting. But all
would have an opportunity to present
their views and refute other views,
and all would sit in the Peace Con-
ference to adopt a treaty.

It is difficult to get the agreement
of the countries that have suffered the
horrors of German occupation and
were involved in heavy losses in hard
fighting to accept participation in the
determination of the treaty terms by
countries who suffered no losses in
men or material and were remote
from the fighting. The United States,
however, regards it as imperative that
all the states who were at war with
Germany should have some voice in
the settlement imposed on Germany.

Four-Power Pact

The proposal for the Four-Power
Pact was advanced by the United
States Government a year ago. It was
our hope that the prompt acceptance
of this simple pact ensuring in ad-
vance of the detailed German peace
settlement that the United States
would actively cooperate to prevent
the rearmament of Germany would
eliminate fears as to the future and
would facilitate the making of a peace
suitable to Europe’s present and
future needs. It was our hope that
such a commitment by the United
States would relieve the fear of the
other European powers that the United
States would repeat its actions follow-
ing the first World War, insisting on
various terms for the peace settle-
ment and then withdrawing from a
position of any responsibility for their
enforcement. It was thought that the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

compact of the Four Powers to guar-
antee the continued demilitarization
of Germany would reassure the world
that we were in complete accord in
our intention to secure the peace of
Europe.

However, the Soviet Government
met our proposition with a series of
amendments which would have com-
pletely changed the character of the
pact, making it in effect a complicated
peace treaty, and including in the
amendments most of the points regard-
ing the German problem concerning
which there was, as I have pointed
out, serious disagreement. I was forced
to the conclusion by this procedure
that the Soviet Government either did
not desire such a pact or was follow-
ing a course calculated to delay any
immediate prospect of its adoption.
Whether or not an agreement can
finally be reached remains to be seen,
but the United States, I think, should
adhere to its present position and
insist that the pact be kept simple
and confined to its one basic purpose
—to keep Germany incapable of wag-
ing war.

Austrian treaty

The negotiations regarding the
Austrian treaty resulted in agreement
on all but a few points, but these were
basic and of fundamental importance.
The Soviet Union favors and the other
governments oppose the payment of
reparations and the cession of Carin-
thia to Yugoslavia.

But the Soviet Government attached
much more importance to its demand
that the German assets in Austria
which are to be hers by the terms of
the Potsdam Agreement should in-
clude those assets which the other
three powers consider to have been
taken from Austria and the citizens of
the United. Nations by FORCE or
DURESS by Hitler and his Nazi
government following the taking over
of Austria by military force in March
1938. The Soviet Government refused
to consider the world DURESS, which
in the opinion of the other three
powers would be the critical basis for
determining what property, that is,
business, factories, land, forests, et
cetera, was truly German property
and not the result of seizures by ter-
toristic procedure, intimidation, fake

12

business acquisition, and so forth. The
Soviet Union also refused to consider
any process of mediation to settle the
disputes that are bound to arise in
such circumstances, nor would they
clearly agree to have such property
as they receive as German assets sub-
ject to Austrian law in the same
manner as other foreign investments
are subject to Austrian law.

The acceptance of the Soviet po-
sition would mean that such a large
portion of Austrian economy would
be removed from her legal control
that Austrian chances of surviving as
an independent self-supporting state
would be dubious. She would in effect
be but a puppet state.

All efforts to find a compromise
solution were unavailing. The United
States, in my opinion, could not com-
mit itself to a treaty which involved
such manifest injustices and, what is
equally important, would create an
Austria so weak and helpless as to be
the source of great danger in the
future. In the final session of the con-
ference, it was agreed to appoint a
commission to meet in Vienna May
12th to reconsider our disagreement,
and to have a committee of experts
examine into the question of the Ger-
man assets in Austria. Certainly
prompt action in the Austrian treaty
is necessary to fulfill our commitment
to recognize Austria as a free and
independent state and to relieve her
from the burdens of occupation.

Summary

Complicated as these issues are,
there runs through them a pattern as
to the character and control of central
Europe to be established. The Foreign
Ministers agreed that their task was
to lay the foundations of a central
government for Germany, to bring
about the economic unity of Germany
essential for its own existence as well
as for European recovery, to establish
workable boundaries, and to set up a
guaranteed control through a four-
power treaty. Austria was to be
promptly relieved of occupation
burdens and treated as a liberated and
independent country.

Agreement was made impossible at
Moscow because, in our view, the
Soviet Union insisted upon proposals

(Continued on page 14)

12 MAY 1947

--- Page 16 ---
Food Plans Criticized

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
points out that General Clay, Minister
Dietrich, the Bavarian Minister for
Agriculture, and the Munich Food
Office all use different statistics and
have made contradictory forecasts
about the amount of food available
for coming ration periods, The lower
the office, the smaller its figures,

"A staggering example: The Ameri-
cans calculate that Bavaria will be
able to export 800,000 tons of pota-
toes. The Bizonal Office expects deliv-
ery of 110,000 tons. The Bavarian
Minister of Agriculture declared in
Stuttgart that Bavaria could furnish
only 67,000 tons."

Bread Bureaucracy

The article speaks of "helplessness
of the bread bureaucracy,” of "dilet-
tantism and charlatanery,” of "paper
calories,“ and “Potemkin rations,"
"In this moment a strong hand is
needed with the necessary powers’
and independence from councils and
committees ... We know that with-
out American help we would have to
die from starvation ... But we do
not know why.a land like Bavaria...
is not able to distribute more than a
ridiculous 62 grams of cheese per
ration period.” The writer points out
that all sides have made mistakes
"otherwise one would not have distrib-
uted 12,500 grams of bread in De-
cember 1946, and only 4,000 grams
four months later." He warns that if
the promise that things will become
considerably better after June is again
not kept, the effect will be irreparable.

Emergency Program

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) suggests an emer-
gency program of food production:
"Even if distress cannot be eliminated
entirely, it can at least be relieved.
The production of fertilizers, which
must above all be made available to
the farmer, must be increased and
secured. A rise in the production of

12 MAY 1947

oil-producing plants, cultivation of
peas and beans for plant albumen,
perhaps even large-scale attempts to
cultivate soya beans in Germany are
all tasks for this year. We cannot
understand that people are content
with the official statement that we
more or less face the prospect of
perishing if no help comes from the
outside.”

Germans to Blame

Das Zeit-Echo (Schwaebisch-Hall)
puts the blame on the Germans them-
selves in commenting on General
Clay's statement on food before the
Laenderrat:

"If the present German govern-
ments are not able to carry out a
just food distribution, the common
man in the street will have the oppor-
tunity of voting for another govern-
ment in the next election. These were
the final words of General Lucius D.
Clay's criticism of procurement and
distribution of food in Germany ... He
Tepeatedly emphasized that an im-
provement of the situation depends on
the Germans themselves. To the ob-
jection that 93 percent of the delivery
quota of bread cereals has been
reached in Wuerttemberg, the General
replied that the quota must be fulfilled
100 percent. Those hard words of the
supreme Commander of the American
Occupation Power should be an echo
to the often heard assertions of various
German ministers and officials who
say that the present food crisis is the
result of the non-arrival of promised
imports fromm abroad.”

The article concludes that radical
measures must be taken to see that
every one delivers his quota, and that
black marketeers and other trans-
gressors are prosecuted.

Comments on CFM

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) 26 April, editorializes on the
results of the meeting of the
Council of Foreign ministers
which “even disappointed the most

13

expectatio!
failed #@, solve the “main 6
our time’—peace for Europe. The
paper doubts whether the committees
established by the Foreign Ministers
will be successful until the next con-
ference, or that one of the Allied
governments will revise its views ex-
pressed at Moscow. Speaking of Ger-
many and her present situation in the
world, the paper continues:

Uncertain Future

“For a people that is no longer a
state and that must first acquire inner
freedom gained with the loss of in-
dependence, months appear like dec-
ades if they must live in uncertainty
about the future and in a state be-
tween war and peace... Germany
knows that she has obligations of
guilt toward the world and can un-
derstand the distrust of other coun-
tries. But without the possibility of
fulfilling these obligations with her
own strength and without choosing
a new political course of her own,
Germany will neither be capable of
existing nor will she be in a position
to carry out a passive function in
Europe.”

Consolidation of Spheres

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) 24 April, sees as
temporary result of the failure of the
Moscow Conference a crystallization
of present conditions, and the possi-
bility of “two worlds”:

“The zones remain separated, cur-
rency reform postponed, the boundary
of the Eastern territories remains de
facto as it is, and prospects for a fu-
ture change will naturally decrease
in view of the existing and ever more
consolidated facts. The condition of
a crippled German economy continues,
with all its detrimental consequences
for the rest of Europe. Both sides en-
visage a consolidation of their pre-
sent political spheres of influence, but
both sides are also aware that this
way out represents the only solution
left, but by no means one which is
good or not fraught with danger...”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Moscow (Cont'd from p. 12)

which would have established in Ger-
many a centralized government, adapt-
ed to the seizure of absolute control
of a country which would be doomed
economically through inadequate area
and excessive population, and would
‘be mortgaged to turn over a large part
of its production as reparations, prin-
cipally to the Soviet Union. In another
form the same mortgage upon Austria
was claimed by the Soviet Delegation.

Such a plan, in the opinion of the
United States Delegation, not only in-
volved indefinite American subsidy,
‘but could result only in a deteriorat-
ing economic life in Germany and
Europe and the inevitable emergence
of dictatorship and strife.

Freedom of information for which
cour government stands inevitably in-
volves appeals to public opinion. But
at Moscow propaganda appeals to
passion and prejudice appeared to
take the place of appeals to reason
and understanding. Charges were
made by the Soviet Delegation and
interpretation given the Potsdam and
other Agreements, which varied com-
pletely from the facts as understood
or as factually known by the Ameri-
can Delegation.

There was naturally much uncer-
tainty regarding the real intention
or motiyes of the various proposals
submitted or of the objections taken
to the proposals. This is inevitable in
any international negotiation.

However, despite the disagreement
referred to and the difficulties en-
countered, possibly greater progress
towards final settlement was made
than is realized.

The critical differences were for the
first time brought into the light and
now stand clearly defined so that
future negotiations can start with a
knowledge of exactly what the issues
are that must be settled. The Deputies
now understand the precise views of
each government on the various issues
discussed. With that they can pos-
sibly resolve some differences and
surely can further clarify the problems
‘by a studied presentation of the state
of agreement and disagreement. That
is the best that can be hoped for in
the next few months. It marks some
progress, however painfully slow.
These issues are matters of vast im-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Photo by Marburg

The Frauenkirche, the most important medieval building in Munich, is now
being restored. Serious injuries to the church occurred in 1943, 1944, and 1945.
At the conclusion of the war the first monuments officers in Munich found
that the towers were undamaged although the copper covering of the domes
was partially blown away. Foundations and most of the outer walls were
preserved. The tremendous undertaking of clearance and restoration was
begun in the summer of 1945, Complete restoration of the Frauenkirche will

require many years.

portance to the lives of the people of
Europe and to the future course of
world history. We must not com-
promise on great principles in order to
achieve agreement for agreement’s

14

sake. Also, we must sincerely try to
understand the point of view of these
with whom we differ.

In this connection, I think it proper
to refer to a portion of a statement

12 MAY 1947

--- Page 18 ---
made to me by Generalissimo Stalin.
He said, with reference to the Con-
ference, that these were only the first
skirmishes and brushes of reconnais-
sance forces on this question. Differ-
ences had occurred in the past on
other questions, and as a rule, after
people had exhausted themselves in
dispute, they then recognized the
necessity of compromise. It was
possible that no great success would
be achieved at this session, but he
thought that compromises were pos-
sible on all the main questions, includ-
ing demilitarization, political structure
of Germany, reparations and economic
unity. It was necessary to have
patience and not become pessimistic.

I sincerely hope that the Generalis-
simo is correct in the view he ex-
pressed and that it implies a greater
spirit of cooperation by the Soviet
Delegation in future conferences. But
we cannot ignore the factor of time
involved here. The recovery of Europe
has been far slower than had been
expected. Disintegrating forces are
becoming evident. The patient is sink-
ing while the doctors deliberate. So
I believe that action cannot await
compromise through exhaustion. New
issues arise daily. Whatever action is
possible to meet these pressing
problems must be taken without delay.

Finally, I should comment on one
aspect of the matter which is of tran-
scendent importance to all our people.
While I did not have the benefit, as
did Mr. Byrnes, of the presence of the
two leading members of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, I did
have the invaluable assistance of Mr.
Dulles, a distinguished representative
of the Republican Party as well as a
recognized specialist in foreign re-
lations and in the processes of inter-
national negotiations and treaty-mak-
ing. As a matter of fact, the bi-par-
tisan character of the American atti-
tude in the present conduct of foreign
affairs was clearly indicated by the
strong and successful leadership dis-
played in the Senate during the period
of this conference by Senators Van-
denberg and Connally in the debate
over a development of our foreign
policy of momentous importance to
the American people. The fact that
there was such evident unity of pur-
pose in Washington was of incalcu-

12 MAY 1947

lable assistance to me in Moscow. The
state of the world today and the
position of the United States make
mandatory, in my opinion, a unity of
action on the part of the American
people. It is for that reason that I have
gone into such lengthy detail in re-
porting my views on the conference.

Prussia (Cont'd from p. 9)
policy, and in the destiny of the
master race which made Prussianism
a symbol of ruthless aggression.
“The dissolution of their coordi-
nating institutions may temporarily
reduce their capacity for effective
action, But until the 40 million Prus-
sians are reeducated in the ways of
peace and democracy, the hated spirit
of Prussia will still abide in the very
center of Europe, ready to head up
a new German expansion whenever
the Allies commence to relax their
supervision. If the Control Council
and the governments it represents are
fully aware of that peril, if they do
not tend to assume that the abolition
of the Prussian state has achieved a
corresponding human revolution
among the Prussians, then the polit-
ical decentralization of this territory
should prove a useful contribution to
the remodeling of Germany. If not,
we shall all be indulging in the kind
of dangerous illusion which permitted
the Nazi reincarnation of the old
German imperialism.”

Danes Allow Transfer

Offices of Military Government for
Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden, and
Hesse have been advised that a ten-
tative agreement has been reached
between OMGUS and Denmark to
bring about the transfer of 11,500
German nationals from Denmark to
the US Zone.

Priority is to be given to those
persons who have relatives now per-
manently housed in the US Zone, and
to families who have employable
members, exclusive of mothers with
children under ten years of age. The
rate of acceptance is approximately
1000 persons each week, All families
will be moved intact, and Danish
authorities will supply four days’
tations for each person at the time
of departure. Each person will be
permitted to have up to 1000 RM or
Allied Marks in his possession.

15

Public Utilities (Cont'd from p. 5)

pressure grids, This is also coal gas,
and as a by-product of coke produc-
tion this method of distribution was
used to avoid wasting this valuable
fuel.

The latest accurate figures available
on gas production in the US Zone are
for the year 1940, which represents
about the peak, as during the war
there was much disturbance of gas
operations, In 1940 gas produced in
the US Zone amounted to 89,060,000
cubic meters, or 74,171.000 cubic me-
ters per month. In 1946 gas produced
in the USZone amounted to 456,889,000
cubic meters, or 38,074,000 cubic me-
ters per month, which was 51 percent
of the 1940 production. In addition to
the gas produced within the zone,
there is grid gas imported from the
Ruhr and distributed in Greater Hesse.
In 1944 this imported gas amounted to
220,769,923 cubic meters and in 1946
to 62,639,000 cubic meters, or 28 per-
cent of the maximum ever brought
into the US Zone

Capacity as applied to gas works is
a variable term—for it is possible to
increase or decrease production with
the demand. The normal installed ca-
pacity in the US Zone in terms of
cubic meters is 97,690,000 per month.
The installed capacity is, therefore,
130 percent of 1940 production, Some
of this normal capacity was destroyed
during the war and gradually has
been coming back into service as re-
pairs are made, In November 1946 the
operable normal capacity was 65 per-
cent of the installed capacity as com-
pared with 10 percent at present. The
current capacity is ample if coal is
made available.

No level of production has been
set for the gas industry, nor has there
been one recommended. Since gas is
primarily a service (and of that about
60 percent is for domestic use) its
level automatically will be established
by industries and uses which are
themselves controlled. Another limit-
ing factor will be the amount of coal
available. As an estimate, it is hoped
that gas production in 1947 will be
at least up to the levels of 1940 or
better, which in itself will indicate an
advancement in general economic
conditions.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Official Instructions

Wear of Prescribed US Army, Navy
or Marine Corps Uniforms: by US
Civilian Personnel in the US Occu-
pied Zone, AG 332.31 GAP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 8 April 1947.

International Motoring, AG 092
GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 14 April 1947.

Wearing of “MG Polizei” Armbands
or Insignia by German Police, Memo.
No. 40, OMGWB, 14 April 1947.

Renewal of German Real Estate
Requisitions, AG 602 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 18 April 1947.

Transfer of Records of Post, Camp
and Station Property, AG 140 GDS-
AGO, Hq EUCOM 18 April 1947.

Clarification of Definition of Term
of “Ordinary Labor" for Purpose of
Hiring of Indigenous Personnel for
OMGUS, AG 091.714 (CS), OMGUS,
28 April 1947.

Change 1 to Title 1, "General Pro-
visions”, AG 010.6 (CO), OMGUS,
28 April 1947, The old text of Title
Number 1 is entirely superseded by
this revision, Significant and impor-
tant changes introduced during the
past year with reference to basic
principles and concepts of US Military
Government administration and the
manner in which US objectives are
to be achieved.

Directive No. 49 — Amendment to
Directive No. 43, "Interzonal Travel”,
PR, OMGUS, 29 April 1947, A one-
trip, interzonal pass may be issued —
without preliminary authority of the
commanding authorities of the zone
to be visited. The pass will be issued
for a period of thirty days unless
a 15-day extension is granted by the
authorities of the zone visited.

Law No. 52, Amendment to Law
No. 16—Marriage Law, Approved and
signed by ACC 21 April 1947.

Issue of Expendable Stationery and
Office Supplies, Administrative.

Instructions No. 29, OMG Wuert-
temberg-Baden, 14 April 1947,

Personnel Visiting Rome, AG 200.4
GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 18 April 1947,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Establishment of Exempt Air Force
Installation, AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 18 April 1947.

Standard Operating Procedure for
Courier Service, Administrative In-
structions No. 30, OMG Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, 18 April 1947.

Use of US Army Vehicles, AG 451
GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 18 April 1947.

US Army Facilities in the European
Command, AG 322 GAP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 19 April 1947.

40-Hour Work Week, Administra-
tive Instructions No. 31, OMG Wuert-
temberg-Baden, 21 April 1947.

Relations with Allied Authorities,
Change 1, Memo, 18, OMG Wuert-
temberg-Baden, 21 April 1947.

Review of Individuals removed by
Military Government and Subse-
quently Cleared under Law No. 104,
Change 1, Memo, 143, 21 April 1947.

USFET-SOP 80, Administration and
Employment of Non-US Personnel,
Change No. 1, Hq EUCOM, 23 April
1947,

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

Youth Hostels (Cont'd from p. 6)

ginally a simple square house, it has
been enlarged by an additional build-
ing to accommodate larger numbers
of guests in attractive bedrooms and
lounges. This year it still is used as
an old peoples’ home for refugees, but
by next summer it will again serve its
original purposes and be reequipped
as an “International Youth Hostel.”
It is the particular project not only
of German youth but of groups from
all countries to make this hostel a
place where young people from any
land can find a friendly welcome.
Hosteling today in Bavaria as in
all the Laender of the three western
zones, operates through local com-
mittees of volunteers to provide light
meals and inexpensive overnight
lodging to wanderers. The program
pattern is spontaneous and informal,

16

utilizing the talents of the ever-
changing group at hand. Singing, folk-
dancing, and friendly conversation
combine with more thoughtful ex-
changes of ideas to make hosteling a
popular and useful activity for the
youth of Germany.

OMGUS Employee Awards
(Cont'd from p. 11)

One MG civilian suggested a need
for a printed explanation of the work-
ings of the various units of Military
Government. This led to the publi-
cation in five issues of theWeekly In-
formation Bulletin, of a comprehensive
series covering the operation and
functions of Military Government.
These five special issues are currently
being reprinted in a single volume
entitled “MG,” which will soon be
available for distribution to interested
US and Allied persons and organi-
zations.

The Suggestion Awards program has
opened a new avenue for ideas to
reach OMGUS. It has met with a
response 35 times as great as_ the
average for the War Department as
a whole in its best year, 1945. In that
year the WD participation rate was
1.2 suggestions per 100 employees
compared with 40 per 100 employees
for OMGUS. The Suggestion Program
staff accounts for this high partici-
pation rate by the fact that a rapidly
changing organization like OMGUS is
confronted with a steady supply of
newly-created problems to challenge
the attention of alert employees.

Many of the best and most practical
of the suggestions submitted fail to
receive awards because the problems
for which they have proposed so-
lutions are being resolved success-
fully by responsible offices even as
the suggestions are being formulated
by others. Nevertheless, a relatively
high number of awards have been
made and important MG benefits have’
been derived through the alert think-
ing of employees.

Personnel Changes

Col. James L. Harbauch, Jr., JAGD,
has been assigned as Judge Advocate,
European Command.

12 MAY 1947

--- Page 20 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Lucius D. Clay
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Ha & Sv Co

*S-10 SK Stuttgart
*S-21 LK Boeblingen
*S-23 LK Esslingen
*S-29 LK Ludwigsburg
*S-30 LK Waiblingen
*S-50 LK Backnang
*S-53 LK Leonberg
*S-55 LK Nuertingen
*S-58 LK Vaihingen

*M-16 SK/LK Mannheim
*M-43 SK/LK Heidelberg
*M-89 LK Buchen

*M-90 LK Mosbach

*M-91 LK Tauberbischofsheim
*M-92 LK Sinsheim

*K-47SK/LK Karlsruhe
*K-46 SK/LK Pforzheim
*K-87 LK Bruchsal

*H-28 SK/LK Heilbronn
*H-22 LK Crailsheim

*H-26 LK Schwaebisch Hall
*H-52 LK Kuenzelsau
*H-54 LK Mergentheim
*H-56 LK Oehringen

*U-11 SK/LK Ulm
*U-25 LK Goeppingen
*U-20 LK Aalen

*U-24 LK Schwaebisch Gmuend

*U-27 LK Heidenheim

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG. Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)

*SK Frankfurt

*SK Wiesbaden

*LK Wetzlar «
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area

Stuttgart
Boeblingen
Esslingen
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Leonberg
Nuertingen
Vaihingen
Mannheim Area

Mannheim
Heidelberg

Buchen

Mosbach.
Tauberbischofsheim
Sinsheim

Karlsruhe Area
Karlsruhe
Pforzheim
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area
Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schwaebisch Hall
Kuenzelsau
Bad Mergentheim
Oehringen

Ulm Area
Ulm
Goeppingen
Aalen
Schwaebisch Gmuend
Heidenheim

LAND GREATER HESSE

Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel
Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
‘Wetzlar

~ Dillenburg

Gelnhausen

Mai Gen F A Keating
Deputy Military Governor

Mr Sumner Sewall

Lt Col M O Edwards
ist Lt F J Czeiner

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst

Capt N Semaschko Jr
Capt E E Oja

Mai F A Hubbard
Capt R Forrest

Capt S P Giunta

Maj J S Capell

Capt S Smith

Lt Col C Rue

Lt Col C L Jackson
Capt C A Wright
Capt J Zecca

Capt N W Barber
Capt J E Switzer

Mai C S Keena
Mai R _H Stimson
Capt T C Stenson

Lt Col C H J West
Capt R C Lawton
Maj S A Warren
Capt T E Griswold
Capt B V Bloom
Capt G H Caple

Mai M L Hoover
Lt Col A G Spitz
Mai C H Pallette
Maj R Lascoe
Maj L H Kyle

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col. SS Graham
1st Lt P J Weiss
Capt B A Sturdevan

Maj G C Sola
Col F H Boucher
Maj D Easterday
Maj B L Bassinor
Capt C D Fexy

12 MAY 1947

17

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda

*LK Huenfeld

*LK Waldeck

*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld

*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK GroB-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse b Worms
*LK Erbach

*LK Buedingen
*LK Dieburg

*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Gov Regt
Hq & Sv Company

CoA

*A-210 SK/LK Wurzburg
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen
*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Bruckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern
*A-333-LK Gemunden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*A-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt

*A-339 LK Konigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
44-346 LK Ochsenfurt

LOCATION

Biedenkopf
Hanau

Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Ruedesheim

Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Huenfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gro8-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Buedingen
Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt (APO 407)

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
‘Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Saale
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Capt W L Culbertson
Mai R A Gish

Lt Col M A Meacham
Capt J S Chapin

Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz

Capt J Nottingham
Capt J N Francis
Mai M E Chotas
Capt O Howard

Lt Col G J Alhrecht
Maj W C Gipple
Maj J Connely
Capt T W Harris

Lt Col C H Reed
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt W G Westbrook Jr
Maj C F Parshall
Maj LS Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E F Covell
Maj H Baymor
Capt S Kershaw
Capt L R Allen
Capt T E Faircloth

Lt Col A Skarry
Capt N C Neider
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj A Gill

Maj LH Brown
Capt G P Johnson
Capt M S Clark
Maj PE Perry
Maj CR Russe
Capt C R Argo
Capt S A Karas

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Maj R M Schwartz

Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col Robert Herbison
Lt Col M W Crouse
Mai G M Marsh
Maj R C Jernigin
Maj EH Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Mai R C Gesell
Capt G G Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt V R Hurst
Maj R J Holmes
Capt. R E Hellmig
Capt FL Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt SE Witty
Capt L K Owens
Capt I A Lowell
Maj A C McIntyre
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt L A Williams
Maj E C Wimberly

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nurnberg
* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg

Col E M Haight
Lt Col A G Callicot

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

12:MAY .1947

--- Page 22 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*B-222 SK/LK Bamberg
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreuth
*B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 Neustadt & Coburg
*B-226 Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Furth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
SK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hochstadt a.d. Aisch
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz
*B-256 LK Muenchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK’ Dinkelsbuehl
*B-262 LK Eichstatt
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf
*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila
*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

LOCATION

Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Muenchherg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheinr
Dinkelsbuehl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim

Lauf

Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila

Stadtsteinach

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

Lt Col J C Barnet

Lt Col SR D Smith
Lt Col J A Thompson
Lt Col F Robie

Maj HT Lund

Maj H L Woodall

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Lt Col J A McEboy

Maj TB Stuart
Maj LL Haupt

1st LtL W Dilgard
Maj F Meszar
Capt J R Palmer
Maj. I Cleary
Maj R_C Anderson
Capt G Hultzen
Maj H Zurn

Maj A F Adams
Capt R Julien
Capt N E Petty
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S$ Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Maj C W Collier
Maj F K Hinchey
Mai F K Stringer
Capt G B Jones
1/Lt J W Horton
Maj F C Smith
Maj C J Cody
Capt W W Evans
Mai F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D

*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg

*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
a. d. Wald

*D-243 SK/LK Passau

*D-244 SK/LK Amberg

*D-245 SK/LK Landshut

*D-246 SK/LK Straubing

*D-274 LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach

*D-301 LK Deggendorf

*D-302 LK Eggenfelden

*D-303 LK Grafenau

*D-304 LK Kelheim

*D-305 LK Landau a. d. Isar

*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen

*D-307 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen

*D-309 LK Vilsbiburg

*D-310 LK Wolfstein

*D-349 LK Kemnath

*D-350 LK Nabburg

*D-351 LK Oberviechtach

*D-352 LK Riedenberg

*D-352 LK Vohenstrauss

*D-353 LK Roding

*D-354 LK Waldmuenchen

*D-355 LK Beilngries

*D-356 LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.

*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing

Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj G J Ganer

Maj C G Doyle

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj H J Mrachek
Maj R E Boyd

Lt Col J R Hector
Capt I R Mariels
Capt Phillips

Mai E O Carlson
Capt E A McNamara
Maj. S Kommel

Maj. R O Woodward
Maj H_ A Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt A.J Harwood
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickhanr
Capt N. Ugland

Lt Col G M Foster
Capt Segar

1st Lt G L Thomas
Capt R N McWhorter
Maj D L O'Roark
Maj I G Shackelford
Mai J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Maj B B Coullahan
Maj L P Rhodes

Maj R W Hitchcock
Mai E Fitcher

Capt R W Ziegler
Capt V D Dygert

12 MAY 1947

19

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
*D-375 LK Bogen Bogen Maj: J. F Staudinger
*D-377 LK Dingelfing Dingolfing Maj J C Robertson Jr
*D-378 LK Griesbach Griesbach Capt C G Dansby
*D-379-LK Ketzting Kotzting Maj J J Maher Jr
*D-380 LK Mainburg Mainburg Capt E R Garrison
*D-381 LK Mallersdorf Mallersdorf Capt G C Jones
*D-382 LK Rottenburg Rottenburg Maj R E Levy
*D-383 LK Viechtach Viechtach Maj_ J F Rey

*D-385 LK Wegscheid Obernzell 1st Lt K L Miller Jr

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

CoE Munich Lt Col R J Philipott
*E-213 SK/LK Munich Munich Lt Col J H Kelly
*E-231 SK/LK Freising Freising Maj L R Day
*E-232 LK Miesbach Miesbach Capt W A Forys
*E-233 LK Traunstein Traunstein Capt V L Thom
*E-234 LK Altoetting Altoetting Capt C A Larimer
*E-235 SK/LK Rosenheim Rosenheim Lt Col S R Place
*E-236 LK Garmisch- Garmisch Lt Col R T Shelby
Partenkirchen
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt Ingolstadt Lt Col J A Crewe
*E-280 LK Erding Erding Capt G D Jacobson
*E-281 LK Laufen Laufen Capt T Eshleman
*E-282 LK Muhldorf Muhldorf Mai M E Hough
*E-283 LK Wasserburg Wasserburg Capt D Root
*E-284 LK Toelz Bad Toelz Maj A O Froede
*E-285 LK Aibling Aibling Capt S J Kushner
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck Fuerstenfeldbruck 1st Lt C C Boatwright
*E-287 LK Landsberg Landsberg Maj K B Cassidy
*E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen Pfaffenhofen Maj H E Reed
*E-289 LK Starnberg Starnberg Maj C E Carlsen
*E-290 LK Weilheim Weilheim Capt C A Brown
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen Wolfratshausen Capt M J Groves
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden Berchtesgaden Mai W W Perham
*E-361 LK Ebersberg Ebersberg Capt E J Pennetto
*E-362 LK Aichach Aichach Maj E J Newmayer
*E-364 Schrobenhausen Schrobenhausen Capt H J Bierman
*E-367 Dachau Dachau ist Lt J A Walker
*E-368 Schongau Schongau Maj A J Le Feare
Regierungsbezirk Schwaben
CoG Augsburg Lt Col C M Avery
*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg Augsburg Maj John Ray
*G-239 LK Dillingen Dillingen Lt J R Barker
*G-240 LK Neu-Ulm Neu-Ulm Maj H E Howlett
*G-241 LK Sonthofen Sonthofen Capt J N Urtes
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten Kempten Lt Col R A Norton
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth Donauwoerth Capt M G Kruglinski
*G-293 LK Gunzberg Gunzberg Maj M G Norum
*G-294 LK Markt Oberdorf Markt Oberdorf Capt S D Lubin
*G-295 LK Memmingen Memmingen Maj E R Wagner
*G-296 LK Mindelheim Mindelheim Capt L A Proper
*G-297 LK Neuberg Neuberg Mai H M Sebastian
*G-298 LK Nordlingen Nordlingen Capt J A Morris
*G-299 LK Fussen Fussen Capt F W Guzak
*G-300 LK Krumbach Krumbach Capt H V Worthington
*G-369 LK Illertissen Illertissen ist Lt Montgomery
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren Kaufbeuren 1st Lt G A Conner
*G-372 LK Wertingen Wertingen ist Lt Rogers
*G-373 LK Friedberg Friedberg Capt D J Moran
*G-374 LK Schwabmunchen Schwabmunchen 1st Lt E C Paie
LAND BREMEN {APO 751)

Office of Mil Gov for

Bremen Bremen Mr T F Dunn
‘Wesermuende Detachement Wesermuende Lt Col L S Diggs

BERLIN SECTOR (APO 742-A)
Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector Berlin Col F L Howley
* Liaison and Security

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN 20 DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF