--- Page 2 ---
te Re ae

Jor BAVARIA TK 7

MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 95 / 2 JUNE 194

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
BIEDE
OPF

N-
MARBURG

ALSFELD

LAUTERBACH

OBER &
LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN

QBERTAUNUS|
WIESBADEN, dae

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

DARMSTAD"

BRUCHSAL

pe

OBLING!

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

FARMING IN BAVARIA—Slow-moving

cattle hauling farm wagons and plows are

common sights in Bavaria, one of the major TAB LE OF CONTE NTS
" food- -production areas in Germany. A sum-
maty of recent official pronouncements to
bi pur greater contribution by the Germans
Brom their Own sources begins on pace 3.

Issue No. 95, 2 June 1947

ne aod “Biathlon ee
OUR CONTRIBUTORS a er me ea PR aC
German "Youth Problema) soi) 0.) oe dine. ee) le ae
GYA Conference was prepared by Dr.
lizabeth P, Lam, Specialist for Youth Acti- Books'on Germany Part Tl 0 aie. ees
pvities for Girls, Education and Religious : i i
Affairs Branch, OMGUS. Since her arrival Weather Aids Industrial Rise. . . ©... . . Ol
in Berlin from Western Reserve University i
Jast fall, Dr. Lam has been increasingly Tene: aCUOne oA Ne dee oe rs
active in organizing conferences and dis- Third Reparations Allocation . ........ 15
Cussion groups designed to bring Americans
qand Germans into closer understanding of Press and Radio\Gomment . . 4). 22.05 40 ay
; each other,
Books on Germany was planned by Octal Instructions | tiles dear oah ded Ul ne et Me) Sie)
pHenry A, Dunlap, Head Librarian of the
LOmcus Reference Library. Offered as a Po eW A Love Wa rts; Agi ef esa Oma Area a a MMU SSS Ae Tce |

ae for Americans who wish to learn
,More about Germany and its background,
Pthis and three succeeding articles which
bwill appear in the Weekly Information
‘Bulletin will inform OMGUS workers of all
F Material available to them on Germany and
the occupation,

3 The Food Situation was compiled from
> the official texts of the speeches and state-
.Ments by the officials and offices quoted in OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

‘ , the article, CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY
#

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
German indigenous production in
the US/UK Zones is inadequate for
the needs of the population and has
to be heavily supplemented by im-
ports, mainly from America.

From V-E Day to the end of April
imports of food, seeds, and ferti-
lizer totaled 2,727,500 metric tons, By
the end of June another 845,100 tons
will have arrived.

This is the first time that con-
querors have made an effort on any
such scale to feed their defeated
enemy.

The fact that there is not actual
starvation in Germany is due to the
tremendous’ productivity of the
United States and the willingness
and efforts of the US and British
Governments to help.

German recovery and a return to
a better standard of living demand
more than Allied efforts.

Brave acceptance (by the German
people) of responsibilities, hard work,
and courage in the face of present
adversities will alone achieve future
well-being.

Stop telling what the other officials
are not doing and work harder on the
task ahead.

Germans who hold positions of
responsibility should face realities
and shoulder squarely their obliga-
tions to their country and their
fellow citizens,

The Germans must help themselves
first if they expect others to help
them.

hese statements came from the

official pronouncements of recent
weeks in laying the facts squarely
before the German people as to the
current food crisis and in giving them
the opportunity to demonstrate their
fullest cooperation in achieving the
solution, There was no sense of
vindictiveness or penalty in these
declarations but each served as fair
warning to the Germans that they

FOOD FROM AMERICA. (left) Flour
received from the United States being
unloaded from a barge in Berlin for
distribution to the populace (Army
Signal Corps photo). (right) Expert
from the Food and Agriculture Branch,
OMGUS, showingWuerttemberg-Baden
agriculture leaders how to cut up
a newly-arrived Maine potato for
planting (photo by PRO, OMGUS)

must realize their share of any failure
to attain a living standard.

Sufficient food has been a major
problem since the start of the occupa-
tion, but still it has not been a new
one for even before the war Germany
could produce only 80 percent of its
own needs and had to import the
remainder. Since the war, some of the
previous food-producing regions have
been lost; the country has been di-
vided up under different national
occupational administration; additio-
nal millions of persons have moved
in; plants, fields, and _ facilities
wrecked by the war launched by the
Germans against the world could not
be revived to normalcy as quickly as
they were destroyed.

Hunger would not wait for the re-
establishment and maintenance of a
self-sustaining living standard in Ger-
many. Men must eat to do their work,
to rebuild their factories and com-
munications, cultivate their fields,
operate their governmental agencies.
Their families also must have their
daily bread. But there was not enough
food remaining to Germany to fill
these needs. Into the gap were placed
the essential resources of the United
States despite the country’s moral
responsibilities to feed the even more

$5 per Person

A total of 1,460,000 metric tons
of food, seeds, and fertilizers were
imported between 1 January and
30 April for German use in
the US/UK Zones at a cost of
$163,000,000 to the American and
British taxpayers.

The imports represent roundly
the entire cargo of 170 Victory
ships or 100,000 railroad cars, On
an individual basis, they mean
that during the first third of the
year every ration car holder in
the two zones received 95 pounds
of food imports at an approximate
cost of $5.00 per person.

destitute areas of the world, par-
ticularly among its allies,

The economic merger of the US and
British Zones on the first of this year
pooled the supplies and responsibili-
ties of the American and British
Governments, It was the first positive,
definite step taken toward fulfilling
the provision of the Potsdam Agree-
ment for the treating of Germany as
an economic unity and thus reducing
the drain on the individual occupying
powers for assuring their respective

--- Page 7 ---
areas of Germany the necessities of
life.

From V-E Day to the end of 1946,
the United States poured into the US
Zone 1,197,500 metric tons of bread-
grains, flour, vegetables, fruit, and
other foodstuffs at a cost to the US
Treasury of $290,000,000. In addition
71,000 tons of seed and fertilizer were
imported from the United States and

Ration Comparison

Food ration scales were conti-
nued at a level based on 1,550
calories per day for normal con-
sumers in the US/UK Zones during
March and April, (Military Gover-
nor's Report.)

A resumption of the 1935/38
level of indigenous production
would provide an average of
approximately 1,350 calories per
day for the non-farm population.
(US/UK release)

elsewhere at an additional cost of
$5,500,000.

During the four-month period of the
economic merger from 1 January to
30 April an aggregate of 1,460,000 tons
of food, seed, and fertilizer was im-
ported into the Combined (US/UK)
Area at a cost to the American and
British taxpayer of $163,000,000. Ac-
cording to estimates by the Food and
Agriculture Branch, OMGUS, 447,200
tons were to be brought into the

Combined Area during May at a cost
of $56,180,000 and 397,900 tons dur-
ing June at a cost of $51,572,000.

Although food ration scales
were continued in March and April
at a level based on 1,550 calories per
day for the normal consumer in the
US/UK Area, it was pointed out that
a critical supply situation had de-
veloped during the period as the
result of a decline in farm-to-market
deliveries after 1 January and re-
duction of import arrivals below
requirements. A substantial part of
the loss of potential food was at-
tributed directly to the severity of the
winter which was the worst in almost
50 years.

Pointing out that “Western Ger-
many’s most recent food crisis has
been a source of deep concern,” US
Secretary of War Robert Patterson
said in Washington that “Every
measure within our power has been
taken to meetit... Substantially all of
such food imports required have had
to come from the United States as the
only available source, but they have
been paid for jointly by the British
and ourselves."

Secretary Patterson concluded his
announcement: “This is the first time
that I know in history in which con-
querors have made an effort on any
such scale to feed their defeated
enemy, and the fact that there is not
actual starvation in Germany is due
only to the tremendous productivity
of the United States and _ the

willingness and efforts of our Govern-
ment and the British to help.”

A joint statement was issued by
Gen. Lucius D. Clay and Air Marshal
Sir Sholto Douglas, respectively US.
and British Military Governors. Their
statement follows:

“You have endured a very long
and hard winter and you are now
enduring as last year the lean and

51% Imported

The estimated collections of
breadgrains in the US/UK Zones
for the crop year 1946/47 amounted
to 2,279,400 metric tons in flour
equivalent, while importations of
grain and flour for the same period
were estimated at 2,351,000 tons,
or 51 percent of the total quan-
tities available.

difficult period before the harvest. In
recent weeks and in a number of

places the full ration has not been

met with the consequence that many
of you, particularly the tow1i-dwellers,
have suffered and are suffering con-
siderable hardship. It is important that
all should understand the true char-
acter of this situation and its causes.

“German indigenous production in
the two zones is inadequate for the
needs of the population and has to
be heavily supplemented by imports,

(Continued on page 8)

A German farmer and his son near
Heidelberg battle weeds and insuffi-
ciently-fertilized soil to raise food to =...
help feed their fellow countrymen as

well as for the family larder.

(Army Signal Corpazphets)

meee

--- Page 8 ---
Dr. F. J. Keller, Education and Religious Affairs Branch, 1A&C Division,
OMGUS, leads GYA Conference in discussion of “What Kind of Guidance
and Help can Americans Offer the Individual Young Person.”

YA

nference

ilitary Government's policy to-
Movers German youth is a positive
program. It seeks to build strong, pro-
Democratic youth organizations gui-
ded by German personnel, and to en-
courage the Germans to take over as
soon as possible the actual operation

2 JUNE 1947

of German youth groups sponsored
by the Army.

MG's program was discussed in
more detail last month when a three-
day German Youth Assistance Con-
ference was held in Berlin. Sixty-five
women from the zone and 40 or more

5

Photo by PRO, OMGUS

persons from Berlin participated. Every
military post in the zone was rIe-
presented, and those present included
WAC's, MG officials, civilian em-
ployees, dependents, and Red Cross
Staff members. A number of German
youth and German adult spokesmen
for youth appeared on the program,
giving first-hand information on the
immediate questions and problems of
German young people,

Certain questions as to how the
GYA program must be carried out
recurred frequently in the talks and
discussions. For example, how can
the Army assistance program contri-
bute more effectively to local. Ger-
man youth groups? How can Ameri-
cans work more effectively with Ger-
man youth leaders? And how can the
contribution of dependents be used

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
to the fullest? In addition, the Con-
ference clarified many questions re-
garding MG policy and highlighted
MG work in the Education and Re-
ligious Affairs Branch, Public Wel-
fare Branch, and Information Control
Division,

Patience, self-restraint, and under-
standing are the tools of American
youth workers according to Dr. Wal-
ter L. Dorn, Special Advisor on Pu-
blic Administration, whose address
opened the Conference.

“We have no illusion that we are
the objects of special German affec-
tion”, he stated, adding. “We must
understand that the German mentality
is. different from ours. The German is
more theoretical and intellectualist
than we are. We are more empirical
and experimental. We study facts,
while the Germans begin with a
theory.”

In closing he stated, “The German
youth program will pay its dividends.
I can't give you a professional esti-
mate of the German youth. I have met
them, frequently spoken with them,
and studied them. Never forget that
these German youth gave their
‘Heils’ to, and sacrificed their hides
for, Hitler enthusiastically. They were
deluded, they will admit, but they
have not found their way into a new
philosophy of life — into a new po-
litical world. We are here as trustees
of American values in politics and in
culture. We can't ram these values
down their throats when they don't
want them. It is useless. But we can
be ourselves, live those values, and
represent them to the Germans, and
I think it will pay very great divi-
dends.”

Dr. Norman Himes, Chief of Special
Education, Education and Religious
Affairs Branch, presented the edu-
cational objectives of Military Govern-
ment and the conditions in the Ger-
man school system which make re-
education difficult. He stressed that
“one of the functions of Military
Government is to do what it can to
help replace the anti-social positive
ideals of Nazism with something mo-
rally tenable. Much good came through
the GI's who realized that German
kids were not responsible for the war
and the disorganization following.
They started the idea of youth groups
and the idea grew like Topsy, and

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Army had to do something about
it in the way of organization. This
led to the 15 April 1946 Directive and
then to the 5 October 1946 Directive
which elaborates and develops the
program.”

Dr. Himes distinguished between
MG functions and those of the Army:
“In general, Military Government is
concerned with the planning, policy
formation, standards, et cetera. It has
ultimate responsibility for relations
with the Germans. The Army is here
to keep order and enable Military
Government to do its job. The Army
youth program is an assistance pro-
gram to Military Government and to
the German groups themselves. We
must remember our most construc-
tive effort must take the form of
strengthening and guiding the Ger-
man organizations themselves.”

Several speakers in the program
gave professional information on
techniques of group work amd gui-
dance. Mr. Larry Norrie, Chief of
Youth Activities Section, Education
and Religious Affairs Branch, pointed
out the educational values to the
child of belonging to a democrati-
cally-organized group. Mr. Norrie
and Mr. F. J. Keller, of the same
Branch, stressed the importance of
learning to know the individual child
in order that he may have encourage-
ment in solving his own problems.
Miss Lois Lord of Special Services,
US Army, made a distinction between
good craftsmanship and the educatio-
nal values of the arts and crafts pro-
gram. She gave advice on how the
arts and crafts shops could be used
to fullest advantage by the women
volunteers,

Describing the underprivileged
youth as a group of “preeminent im-
portance”, Mr. A. E. Bevier, Chief of
Public Welfare Branch, stressed the
importance of recognizing the large
number of children who are either
physically or mentally sick or who
are orphans. More than 300,000, he
reported, are in foster homes, under
guardianship, or in correctional in-
stitutions, plus many thousands whose
home environment is below normal.
Military Government, he said, is
assisting German child welfare agen-
cies to rebuild their pre-Nazi welfare
standards in order to take care of this
underprivileged group.

6

German youth and youth leaders
spoke also. Frau Richard Thurnwald,
Frau von Zahn-Harnack (the text of
whose talk appears in this issue of
the Weekly Information Bulletin),
and Fraulein Cornelia Grebe-Ehlers
made clear that the problems and
interests of German youth are varied.
Some are unemployed and subject to
the demoralizing temptations of the
black market. Others are without hope,
and are doing the kind of work which
gives them no personal satisfaction.

The sudden destruction of the Nazi
school system and the refutation of
doctrines which all German youth
had been taught have resulted in
complete skepticism and distrust of
any organized movewent, Frau Thurn-
wald, noted sociologist, reported. She
added that German youth must have
its “faith restored by the re-establish-
ment of confidence on the basis of
equality and respect.” Fraeulein Grebe-
Ehlers, teen-age student at the Uni-
versity of Berlin said that while the
great mass of German youth has no
opinion about the future, there are a
few who are active democrats, some
who are Nazis, and some who are
militarists.

Other German speakers included Mr.
Edward Grosse, editor of “Horizont”,
Pfarrer Weckerling, and Domvikar
Lange. Both Germans and Americans
participated in one of the liveliest
sessions of the Conference — a panel
discussion on “The Why and How of
German-American Discussions,” led
by Dr. Norman Himes.

In the “workshops”, or discussion
groups, the delegates exchanged
experiences from their own com-
munities and discussed how they
might make a more effective con-
tribution. Some of the projects of
special interest were presented. In
Munich a center to accomodate 150
boys from 10 to 15 years was des-
cribed. It will be a Munich “Boys
Town", In Heidelberg Americans have
bought 150 CARE packages for distri-
bution to German youth groups. Stutt-
gart has initiated a number of new
discussion groups for English-speaking
Germans. And Mr..W. C. Headrick of
Information Control Division describ-
ed the many opportunities for learn-
ing offered the German public
through the US Information Centers
established throughout the zone.

2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 10 ---
(Serman

outh
Droblenil

Current problems of youth as Ger-
mans see them were discussed at the
GYA Conference held in Berlin last
month in order that US workers could
better understand the needs of Ger-
man boys and girls. Several well-
known Germans gave their views on
the difficulties which face German
youth as they adjust to post-war ideas
and conditions,

One of the German speakers was
Frau von Zahn-Harnack, president of
the Berlin- Wilmersdorfer Woman's
Club and leader in civic affairs. The
text of her speech before US Army
youth representatives, MG officials,
and volunteer workers follows.

The problems of young people are
very urgent in Germany, for those
who are young today will be the
grown-ups of tomorrow and they will
have to build up the new world for
which we all hope. The problems dre
being treated from very different
points of view and the whole field is
so wide that it cannot be covered by
one speaker in one lecture. So I
thought it would be wise to restrict
my short address to the problem of
young people in or out of work.

For that is what appears to me the
fundamental difference. Three differ-
ent groups must be clearly defined if
we want to find out how we can help.

The first group are those young
people who have suitable work, or who
are in a professional training which
they have chosen for themselves,
which they like, and in which they
hope to get on. You will find these
young people at the universities as
students, in our schools for social

2 JUNE 1947

workers, or as apprentices ‘in trades.
As far as I can see all these young
peopie are quite all right. I talked the
other day to a Berlin University
woman professor who sees hundreds
of students every day. The facts she
gave me were very instructive. Bezlin
has about 4,300 students, 43 percent
of whom are women. In the Russian
Zone women are really given the same
opportunities as men, and they are
using them. Among the medical stu-
dents there are 50 percent girls; in
philosophy 60 percent; in theology
25 percent; in law 11 percent girls...
The professor to whom I talked said
that girls and boys alike are very
keen ‘on studying and learning. They
hardly ever miss a lecture. They all
know that they have to fill great
gaps of learning, for in the last five
years—in fact throughout the war—
our schools have not given them good
teaching. The work was interrupted
by the air-war and the school children
had to take over many jobs that in
no way promoted their intellectual
growth. So now our students are in-
dustrious, very idealistic, and pass
their examinations successfully.
‘What makes us anxious about these
young people is their very bad state
of health. About 40 percent had
serious disturbances of their health,
and tuberculosis, ‘heart troubles, and
theumatism, are rapidly increasing.
Very many among them are totally
overworked. It is chiefly the girls who
—besides their university training—
take upon themselves household
duties such as shopping, mending nurs-
ing of sick people or of brothers and

7

sisters, cutting wood, and so on. We
are afraid that, when they have at
last finished their studies, they will
be so poor in health that they are not
fit to fill the place for which they
have been trained.

Are they interested in public affairs,
in political problems? Well, they are,
but they are not interested in poli-
tical parties. That is quite definite,
We have a proverb: “A burnt child
fears the fire.” Membership in a poli-
tical party has meant ruin to hundreds
of thousands of Germans and that ex-
plains their present attitude. They
want to learn about politics, but they
do not want to be taken in. Their
ability to discuss is not very strong,
because for years they have been
accustomed to get orders and to ful-
fill them. A fortnight ago I had a most
interesting discussion with about
50 students from all fields about thec-
logical problems. I was amazed to see
how easily they accepted dogmas, and
how willing they were to follow
authority. I feel it is a just task ‘to
make them sceptical.

The second group is much larger,
and is composed of those who are not
able to do the work or profession
they like. On the 30th of June the
term of Berlin schools ends; about
35,000 of girls and boys are leaving
school then — and not more than
about 1,500 places for training will
be available for them. That means
that an enormous number of ihese
young people will have to go into
unskilled work or will be without
any work at all.

There is only one field’ that can
take in large numbers as workers: the
building professions with all the differ-
ent trades that belong to it —
plumber, mason, glazier, pipelayer,
tiler, and so on. But places to learn
these professions are very scarce.

Consequently they go into unskilled
work and that means that girls go as
“Truemmerfrauen” to clear away the
ruins. All the bricks that you see
piled up along the streets of Berlin
have gone through the hands of
women. They work at it for eight
hours a day, mostly without mechani-
cal help; they push and pull the heavy
lorries, they work with hardly any
shoes on their feet. The work is much
too hard for them, and they earn

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
about 30 marks a week. Thirty marks
is about five cigarettes on the black
market. I am sure you realize what
that means: there are lots of ways
for a young girl in Berlin today to
earn five cigarettes much more easily.
Those profession that are liked and
sought for are overcrowded or do not
offer work for lack of raw materials.
That is the case with nearly all pro-
fessions connected with textiles. Shop
girls are not wanted because shops
have nothing to sell;' offices do not
need commercial clerks as there is
no commerce; bakers and butcheis
do not want apprentices. So the young
people have to put up with the
work they can get, and very often
they are not interested in their work,
so it is done badly.

The third group with which we have
to cope is made up of those who have
no work at all, and do not even want
to work. They are a great moral and
social danger; they spread diseases;
many of them are becoming criminals.
They are tramping the roads, loitering
at railway stations, trying to find
more or less dubious friends, black-
marketing, and so on. You all know
the long list of evil possibilities that
are open to them.

If they come to the courts, we learn
a great deal about their background.
Of 500 juvenile delinquents ir
Ploetzensee, 85 percent came from
broken homes and families. They had
either no parents, or only one parent,
or parents living apart. Most of them
had been separated for long years
from their families, owing to evacuation
during the war. Nearly all come from
homes where the young people have
no privacy, not even a bed for thein-
selves. The mothers are overworked,
nervous, and exhausted, and ask too
much or too little from them. The
streets, bars, restaurants, cinema are
much more tempting than the family
circle. I will not speak here ‘about
the want of food and clothing. I an
sure you all know about that and it
is no use to repeat these things. They
are, of course, fundamental, and ‘f we
could give sufficient food and cloih-
ing, more than half of our youth pro-
blems would be solved.

But still there are possibilities taat
could be used: I am a firm believer in
the settlement movement. Before 1933

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

settlements did very useful work in
Berlin, The best of them, founded by
Professor Sigmund Schulze, now in
Zurich, was of course dissolved by
the National Socialists. They were
formed on the basis of the ideas of
your great social reformer, Jane Ad-
dams. I think that is where we
should start again: inner cultivation,
neighborly help, the feeling of
responsibility for those who are
living next door to us. We should
have settlements in all German towns,
dozens in Berlin. This club work
among young people, young mothers,
young and old men could bring a lot
of help 'and it would give people a
new feeling they belong somewhere.

I am often asked whether I believe
that the churches, following their pre-
sent methods, will find their way to
these young uprooted persons. I am
sure the churches will reach many of
them; but I am afraid many more will
not be reached. There are wide circles
of persons on whom the churches
have lost their hold, and who would
recoil from the idea that the church
could come to their rescue. The chur-
ches must find quite new ways of
working, and I am sure they could by
helping with the settlements.

And there is one more point which
I want particularly to stress: You
will not think it frivolous for it is a
very earnest problem, though it
sounds light. Young people must now
and then have a good time. They
want it as much as plants want the
sun, And they do not get it in Ger-
many now, at least not in a healthy,
nice way. We must teach them to be
happy and not self-conscious, must
show them the real values of life:
beauty of art, beauty of moral
strength, of idealism. We must try to
show them those pleasures that are
still obtainable in Germany: our lakes
and forests, the work in the tiny gar-
dens among the ruins, more refined
relations between the sexes, the
works of our poets—and we must
show them what other countries,
other nations have to teach us. I am
sure you all are willing to help in
that way. It can be a grand success; it
may mean a new beginning for many
hundreds of young people, the opening
of their eyes to real values, the recap-
turing of faith and confidence that
have been so cruelly‘shaken.

8

The Food Situation

(Continued from page 4)

mainly from America, German exports
are quite insufficient to pay for these
and the’cost has for two years now
been borne by the US and British
Governments, Nevertheless this cost,
though great, has not resulted in any
reduction in imports and continuous
efforts have been made to obtain
maximum supplies from overseas.
That these efforts have not always
been wholly successful has been due
solely to the universal shortage which
is the direct consequence of the war
and which has put all Western Europe
on rations not very much better than
those of Germany. At the present
time shipments from America have
been accelerated and upon their
arrival improvement with more reg-
ular distribution can be expected.

“But German recovery and a return
to a better standard. of living demand
more than Allied effort. It is useless
and -childish for those who claim to
lead and organize the people to lay
the blame for current privations on
Allied shoulders, They should realize
that any such gestures as the re-
linquishment of their functions or
the organization of mass demonstra-
tions, particularly in working hours,
can have not the slightest influence
on imports of food. On the contrary,
everything which impedes production
and discourages effort, especially in
the coal industry, must retard re-
covery and lead to further hardships
still in the coming winter.

“Grumbling and apathy will not
bring better days to Germany. Brave
acceptance of responsibilities, hard
work, and courage in the face of
present adversities will alone achieve
future well-being.

“It is above all a time when Ger-

- mans who hold positions of respon-

sibility in local governments, in the
political parties, trade unions, and
works councils should face realities
and shoulder squarely their obliga-
tions to their country and their fellow
citizens.”

Another joint US/UK announcement
declared, “The German . Executive
Committee for Food and Agriculture
must take the necessary steps to
assure that the availability of ra-
tioned food is maintained on the same
caloric level throughout the Com-

2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 12 ---
bined Area. This will mean that, for
the present at least, we may have to
abandon a common diet and allow
the quantity of bread and other com-
modities to vary from area to area.”

The announcement added that “In
view of the critical world shortage
neither Germany nor any other
country can be permitted to build up
stocks in excess of barest needs. Any
attempt to do so would undoubtedly
mean, and properly so, a reduction
in import allocations at this critical
stage... The rations of meat, fat,
cheese, and milk can be met from
German production if collection and
distribution are carried out with
energy.” ,

Similar' views’ were expressed by
the Directors of the Regional Offices
of Military Government in the US
Zone in addressing their remarks: di-
rectly to the Land officials and Ger-
man people, Similar to.a remark by
the Military Governor at his recent
press conference, they said the food
supply was at the lowest point now
and the critical shortage should be
eased shortly.

In a radio address, Sumner Sewall,
Director of OMG for Wuerttemberg-
Baden, said, “I honestly believe that
the citizens of the United States are
earmestly trying to be good world
citizens and carry. their human respon-
sibilities as far as it is within their
ability to do so. But no nation on
earth is strong enough to alleviate all
the serious conditions which exist
today. It is therefore necessary for us
to divide our assistance among many
in accordance with our best judg-
ment as to fairness and need....

“There is incontrovertible evidence
that large amounts of food have mov-
ed from German farms into the black
market during the past winter. Certain
people have thereby secured more
than is their fair share and others are
accordingly suffering. ... Military
Government will not be party to
asking the American taxpayer to make
up these black market deficits .... So
long as black markets in farm pro-
ducts continue to flourish, security to
all will be jeopardized....

“During the past few months there
have been several small, unauthorized
work stoppages .... Some of these
have outwardly been in protest over
the food situation.... But here again

2 JUNE 1947

it is only fair that you clearly know
that such demonstrations are having
an extremely unfavorable effect on the
people of the United States.... There
is a distinct danger that strikes and
demonstrations on your part at this
time can easily jeopardize the entire
flow of food supplies that are cur-
tently coming to Germany....”

Brig. Gen. Walter J. Muller, Direc-
tor of OMG for Bavaria, in a con-
ference with the Minister-President,
his cabinet, and members of the Land-
tag, called on Bavarian officials to
stop “name-calling and arguments
over the radio and in the press” with
officials of other US Zone Laender
and of the British Zone and to work
together towards achieving an equit-
able distribution of food. He advised
that the Landtag can assist “by
supporting and cooperating with the
government during this critical period,
regardless of political affiliations, for
the greatest good to the greatest
number of your own people.”

Declaring “the Germans must help
themselves first if they expect others
to help them,” General Muller stated,
“Military Government is also prepar-
ed, on call of the Minister-President,
to request any emergency assistance
to support this program.” Concerning
the bizonal merger, he said, “The
problem of food is one which affects
the people, not only in Bavaria, but
in the other American Laender as
well as the other Laender of the
bizonal economic union.”

Dr. James R. Newman, Director of
OMG for Hesse, in his radio address
declared: ‘There will be no strikes
in Hesse nor will there be any
tolerance of any other agitations
against the policies of Military
Government, whether the purpose of
such is political or otherwise, which
in any way impede or tend to impede
the occupational requirements . or
programs.”

He listed “the things which are re-
quired of you” as: “Get out of the black
market ... Every effort must be made
to meet delivery requirements...
There must be a maximum acreage of
tillable soil placed under cultivation
and planted... Avoid strikes... Be
industrious... Hoarding must stop.”

Thomas F,.Dunn, Director of OMG
for Bremen, reminded his listeners
that “the British and American Gov-

9

ernments have in their trué deniocratic
manner given material assistance’ to
the German people and. have - thus
avoided a catastrophe.” He asked
“The food producers to examine their
consciences and to.-satisfy themselves
if they can that the’ material gains”
they obtained throtigh black-market-
ing are compatible with the true
Christian spirit, and. to justify to
themselves the’ withholding of food
resulting in untold suffering .of the
city population in general and of the
children. in particular.”

OMGUS Food and Agriculture of-
ficials, pointing out that by 1 May
farmers in the US Zone had delivered
larger proportions of all principal
crops harvested than delivered during
the corresponding period of last year,
said: the continuance of the 1,550
calorie ration until the next harvest
was dependent on the ability of
German agencies to improve their
control over collection and distribution
of food as well as on the prompt
arrival required imports.

Tuberculosis Program

An offer of the Danish Red Cross
to provide specialists, vaccine, and
other necessary materials for the
inauguration of a preventive program
against tuberculosis in the US Zone
of Germany is under consideration by
the Laenderrat Public Health Commi-
tee at Stuttgart. If any Land of the
US Zone wishes to carry out this
proposed program, the Danish Red
Cross will lend its experiences and
resources to that area.

The proposed method of inoculat-
ion is known as BCG vaccination,
standing for Bacillus of Calmette
Guerin after its French discoverers.
This method, particularly adoptable
to the conditions of crowding and
insufficient food intake is being prac-
ticed in the Scandinavian countries,
Russia, France, and the United States.
The Danish Red Cross is now spon-
soring programs using the method in
Poland, Hungary, Yugoslavia, and the
British Zone of Germany.

The Danish experts pointed out
that application of this procedure
protects only those individuals not
already infected with tuberculosis.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
PART 1

jne Reference Library, Office of the

Adjutant General, OMGUS, has
been, since 1945, collecting books,
pamphlets, periodicals, and news-
papers pertaining to Germany and to
the varied aspects of the occupation.
To make the personnel of OMGUS
acquainted with this material a series
of four bibliographies has been pre-
pared, to be published in consecutive
issues of the Weekly Information
Bulletin. The four bibliographies will
be as follows: Official Publications,
Background Books, Special Books, and
International Scene.

The official publications listed be-
low exclude letters, memoranda, and
similar type material ordinarily found
in office or central files. They in-
clude books, pamphlets, periodicals
and newspapers published by the War
Department, OMGUS, and subordinate
agencies. For security reasons offi-
cially classified material cannot be
listed here, but the Library has a
large amount of this material which
is readily available for use by autho-
rized US personnel in accordance with
the provisions of AR 380-5.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

BOOKS

ON

GERMANY

A list of the principal “Official
Publications” with summaries of their
contents follows.

The Berlin Observer. Begun in July
1945, this weekly publication was ori-
ginally called The Grooper, then the
OMGUS Observer, and finally the
Berlin Observer. Valuable as a newsy
chronicle of the American community
of the occupation capital. It is
published by the Information and Edu-
cation Section of Berlin Command,
OMGUS.

Allied Control Authority. Enact-
ments and approved papers of the
Control Council and Coordinating
Committee, Germany. Compiled by
Legal Division, OMGUS. Five vol-
umes have been bound. These volumes,
published at irregular intervals, con-
tain in English the proclamations,
laws, orders, directives, and other pa-
pers. Each volume has a useful sub-
ject index.

Official Gazette of the Control
Council for Germany. Compiled by
the Allied Secretariat. This gazette,
in English, French, Russian, and Ger-
man, contains all proclamations, laws,
and orders of the Control Council and
the directives and instructions issued
by both the Control Council and Co-
ordinating Committee. The texts in
English, French, and Russian are
equally official; the German text is
supplied for convenience only.

Military Government Regulations.
A compilation by the Control Office
of all directives and instructions on
MG matters issued by OMGUS. New
sections and amendments are issued
frequently. A total of 23 titles cover
the following general subjects: gen-

10

eral provisions; eradication of Na-
zism and militarism; political activ-
ities; civil administration; legal and
penal administration; public welfare;
education and religious affairs; public
safety; civilian communications; in-
dustry; food and agriculture; trade and
commerce; civilian transportation;
manpower; finance; property control;
monuments, fine arts and archives;
restitution; displaced persons; infor-
mation control; Military Government
reports and histories; Military Gov-
ernment legislation. Also of signifi-
cance are the texts of basic documents
included at the beginning of Title 23.

Weekly Information Bulletin. Begun
in July 1945 by G-5, USFET, the
magazine was taken over by the Con-
trol Office, OMGUS, in April 1946. It
presents a weekly account of MG
operations, achievements, and current
trends for the information of all occu-
pational personnel. It recently carried
a series of articles explaining the
functions and responsibilities of the
various offices and divisions of Mili-
tary Government and occupation or-
ganizations. Of importance is the list
it contains of official EUCOM and
OMGUS instructions.

A Year of Potsdam: the German
Economy since the Surrender. Pre-
pared by the Economics Division,
OMGUS. This book is a survey of
Military Government's accomplish-
ments in its first year, with particular
stress on economic and related matters.
The main general topics. deal with

food and _ agriculture, industry,
restitution, and decartelization. In-
cluded also are excerpts from the

2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 14 ---
.
Potsdam Agreement, the Plan for Re-
parations, and the Level of Post-War
German Economy.

News of Germany. Published at
Bad Nauheim by the Press Control
Branch, Information Control Division,
OMGUS. Begun in July 1945, this
publication appears every Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday. It presents
internal news of Germany as taken
from the file of DENA, the US-licensed
German press agency. It is “a service
for personnel whose duties demand
familiarity with spot news develop-
ments within Germany...”

Military Government Weekly
Health Report. Prepared by the
Public Health Branch, IA&C Division,
OMGUS. Begun in July 1945 this pre-
sents a weekly statistical summary of
communicable disease cases and
deaths throughout the US Zone. Twice
monthly a report on animal diseases
is included.

Military Government Gazette, Ger-
many, United States Zone. Compiled
by the Legal Division, OMGUS. This
contains “Military Government legis-
lation applicable in the United States
Zone enacted by Supreme Headquar-
ters Allied Expeditionary Force, by
Headquarters United States Forces,
European Theater, and by Office of
Military Government for Germany
(US).” Enactments of the Allied Con-
trol Authority are not included. The
text of this Gazette is in English and
German.

Monthly Report of the Military
Governor. This is the most signifi-
cant single publication of OMGUS.
Includes the summary report of the
Military Governor plus functional
annexes covering achievements in the
following fields: legal and judicial
affairs; industry, finance, and property
control; food and agriculture; man-
power, trade unions, and working con-
ditions; transportation; education and
Teligious affairs; public health and
medical affairs; information control;
reparations and restitution; communi-
cations; trade and commerce; public
welfare; displaced persons; German
governmental organization and civil
administration; denazification and
public safety. At intervals special re-
ports are included. The importance
of a thorough knowledge of the con-
tents of each of these reports cannot

2? JUNE 1947

Weather Aids Industrial Rise

Continued good weather during

April brought a sharp recovery of in-.

dustrial production in the US Zone
to a level approximating the peak
attained last fall, the index rising to
42 percent of the 1936 average,
according the Reports and Statistics
Branch of the Economics Division,
OMGUS. The figure is only two points
below that of October and November,
1946, when it reached 44 percent.

All of the major industrial groups
participated in the general improve-
ment, with production of machin-
ery, vehicles, textiles, and rubber
products reaching new highs. The
output of ceramics products dupli-
cated October-November production
which was 50 percent of the 1946 rate
in the zone.

Textile production, one of the key
industries upon which the current
export program depends, rose 21 per-
cent during April to 45 percent of
1936 in contrast to the previous pro-
duction index in this field of 39 per-
cent. Reflecting imports of raw cotton
under the self-liquidating program,
almost 2,500 metric tons of cotton

yarn came off the zone’s spindles,
more than in any other month since
the end of hostilities. Rubber pro-
ducts increased 45 percent as com-
pared with March, while the April
index of 55 was about 25 percent
better than the previous high of
44 percent reached in November.

Machinery production rose to
42 percent of 1936 levels, or slightly
above the September peak. Vehicle
production rose to 15 percent of 1936,
also slightly better than the Septem-
ber 1946 level.

Substantial increases for the month
of April were also recorded for the
stones and earth industry, which rose
120 percent. Paper and pulp increas-
ed over 40 percent, while output in
saw mills, chemicals and electrical
equipment advanced between 30 and
40 percent. Iron and steel, precision
instruments including optics, advanc-
ed between 10 and 20 percent.
Leather production was unchanged.
The only industrial groups which were
exceptions to the general upward
trend were mining, glass, and gas
and electricity which showed declines
of less than 10 percent.

be stressed too strongly, for it is the
condensed, official version of the
many activities and accomplishments
of Military Government.

Military Government Report. Pre-
pared by the OMG Berlin Sector. A
weekly report, begun in July 1945.
Similar in form and content to the
weekly reports of the Laender. The
Library file is not complete.

Weekly Report Military Govern-
ment for Land Bavaria. This publi-
cation, begun in May 1945, includes
an excellent weekly summary of im-
portant events and special sections
devoted to civil administration, in-
ternal affairs, legal, information con-
trol, economics, transportation, man-
power, finance, supply, and public re-
lations. Each issue is a condensed
version of Military Government ope-
rations in Bavaria. The Library file
is not complete.

Weekly Military Government
Summary. Prepared by the OMG for

11

Hesse. This first appeared in August
1945. It is presented in the same
fashion as the report for Land Bavaria.
The Library file is not complete.

Weekly Operations Report. Pre-
pared by the OMG for Bremen. Begun
in May 1945, when still known as the
Bremen Enclave, this report follows
the same form as those of the other
Laender. The Library file is not com-
plete.

Weekly Military Government Re-
port. Prepared by the OMG for
Wuerttemberg-Baden. Begun in May
1945 this report is issued in the same
form as that for Land Bavaria. The
Library file is not complete.

(The five OMG weekly reports
listed above are to become semi-
monthly publications.)

The Stars and Stripes, unofficial
publication of US Occupation Forces
in Europe. While not an official
publication this is of great value as

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
a mirror of policy and a chronicle of
events of the occupation. Particularly
useful for tracking down news events.
The Reference Library's file begins
with the issue of 15 October 1945, but
lacks some issues.

Civil Affairs in Occupied and Li-
berated Territory, a weekly digest of
public opinion, prepared by the US
War Department in Washington, D.C.
This is a collection of critical Ame-
rican newspaper and magazine ar-
ticles dealing with the occupation in
Germany and Japan, with the Far
East and Balkan states in general. It
forms an excellent cross-section of
US press opinions on occupation po-
licies and achievements.

The publications listed above are of

great importance in acquiring an ad-_

equale general knowledge of how
Military Government functions and
what it has accomplished thus far.
The list presented here is not com-
plete but it constitutes a bare mini-
mum. Anyone desiring to gain a
thorough knowledge of the occupation
would have to be familiar with the
publications listed above. Most of this
material listed may be used in the
Reference Library and cannot be taken
out on loan.

The second article in this series will
deal with “Background Books,” and
will appear in the next issue of the
Weekly Information Bulletin.

French Agreement

The Combined (US/UK) Area and
France have concluded a payments
agreement relating to mutual trade,
effective for the period 1 July—31 De-
cember 1947 and renewable for six-
month periods thereafter. Discussions
of trade problems between the French
Occupation Zone and the Combined
Area were also held but no final
decisions were reached.

Under terms of the agreement, that
portion of the net balance which
represents payments entered into the
account two months or more pre-
viously and still not offset, will be
payable on request either in dollars
at the rate of 119.107 French francs
to the dollar or in pounds sterling
at the rate 480 French francs to one
pound sterling.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

It is also provided that if at any
time the balance of the account ‘is
in excess of 600,000,000 French frants,
the portion of the balance in excess
of this amount will be settled im-
mediately, either in US dollars or
in pounds sterling at the option of
the party receiving payment.

Seventh OCC Case

Murder, terrorization, plunder, pil-
lage and wanton destruction, are the
main crimes charged in the indict-
ment filed by the Office of Chief of
Counsel for War Crimes against
Wilhelm List, Maximilian von
Weichs, Lothar Rendulic, and nine
other former Wehrmacht generals
who took part in. the German mili-
tary occupation of Norway, .Yugo-
slavia, Greece, and Albania.

The seventh indictment to be
presented to the Secretary General of
the OMGUS: Military Tribunals in
Nuremberg, contained four counts,
all based on charges of war crimes
and crimes against humanity. All
12 defendents were named on each
count.

These counts include the alleged
murder of thousands of persons
taken from the civilian population of
Greece, Yugoslavia, and Albania; the
plundering and looting of public and
private property, the wanton des-
truction of cities, towns and villages,
and the commission of other militar-
ily unjustified acts of devastation;

the initiations, issuance, and exe-
cution of illegal orders directing
the refusal of quarter, denial of

prisoner of war status and rights to

enemy troops, and the summary
execution of surrendering members
of Allied military forces; and the
torture and terrorization, imprison-

ment in concentration camps, im-
pressment into forced labor on for-
tifications, and the deportation to
slave labor of the civilian populations
of Greece, Yugoslavia, and Albania.

This will be the first case brought
by the OCC-WC to be based pri-
marily upon military charges, the case
against Erhard Milch, which was
concluded in April, having chiefly
stressed the slave labor count.

12

Greater CRALOG Help

The Council of Relief Agencies

Licensed: to Operate in Germany
(CRALOG) has signed an agree-
ment with Military Government

broadening the terms of the original
agreement under which CRALOG

‘has been sending gift shipments of

relief supplies to Germany for the
past year, according to an announce-
ment by the Public Welfare Branch,
IA &C Division, OMGUS. The agree-
ment will permit CRALOG to begin
shipments of cultural, recreational
and educational supplies to Germany.
It is .assumed that these supplies
will include books, writing materials,
sports equipment, and drawing
apparatus,

In addition, CRALOG will now
also be able to send non-perishable
food, clothing, shoes, household and
garden supplies, pharmaceutical sup-
plies, and “other items for the relief
of human suffering and the demo-
cratic reorientation of Germany”
directly to specific groups and areas,
as long as the principle of distri-
bution to the most needy is met.
This means, according to the an-
nouncement that approval for the
shipment of materials to specific
groups or areas must first be obtain-
ed from the German Central Com-
mittee, the Laenderrat organization
which allocates gift relief supplies
on a “need” basis. :

CRALOG is contacting US cultur-
al, educational, informational, and
recreational groups to serve more
effectively as the channel for gift
shipments in these fields as well as
for shipments of a more general
relief nature.

Strike Prohibitions

Prohibition on strikes by Police-
men and Firemen Unions is noted
in cable V-18396 from the Manpower
Division, OMGUS, on 15 May con-
cerning revision in MGR Title 15,
the cable said:

“Issuance of the above regulations
does not modify existing deter-
mination that Policemen and Firemen
Unions formed under these reg-
ulations will not be permitted to
strike as long as Military Govern-
ment retains over-all responsibility
for civil security.”

2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 16 ---
Germans Told to Do Their Share

ii German press placed strong

emphasis on the facts that the
United States is sending huge amounts
of food to Germany and-that the Ger-
man people must do their share in
relieving the present condition, accord-
ing to the weekly analysis made by
the Information Control Division,
OMGUS, of editorial comment. The
warning that troops may be utilized,
if necessary, to assure maximum de-
livery of foodstuffs from the farms
made a strong impression.

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) commented: “It is not proper
to carry on long discussions or theo-
retical controversies. There is only
one question left — and people ought
to understand once and for all that
this is a political question of major
importance—hunger. The reports of
a single day provide an impressive
picture of the situation.”

The writer questioned whether

energetic steps have been taken
against the black market: “Did the
people protest that a large part of
the produced goods is not being distri-
buted at all, but is bartered within
the industry? The people will have
to learn to draw the consequences
out of the present catastrophe and to
break uncomprisingly with the past.
Only then will it have gained the
moral right to foreign assistance.”

The Kasseler Zeitung, deploring that
troops might have to be used in case
the food crisis is protracted, pleaded
for elimination of the black market
and bartering and emphasized that
Germany must help herself as much
as possible before she can expect
help from abroad. It declared:

“Tt is disgraceful for us Germans
that General Clay must make troops
available to get the food from the
agricultural areas in order to elim-
inate black marketing and _ pro-

ker who has so long put up with
the small food rations without himself
doing something about it. Let us hope
that it will not come to an extreme
that American troops will have to
search the farms for available food.

“We appeal to the Christian con-
science of the farmers to obey the
call of the Minister of Food and to
deliver what must be delivered, to
turn down black marketeers and pro-
fiteers and to share the destiny of
the entire German people.”

The Heilbronner Stimme quoted ex-
cerpts from the speech of the Ba-
varian Minister of Agriculture, Dr.
Joseph Baumgartner, who said that
“we Germans apparently don't learn
from history.” The article continued:

“Tt is stupid to assert that the Ame-
ricans want to let us starve inten-
tionally, that they do not want our
economy to develop, that they deli-
berately do not want to help us. The
fact is that, without the broad-minded

[ GERMANS VIEWS OF FOOD SITUATION — — |

“If only these stomach-rumb-
lings don't keep me from
learning my lessons!”

From! Fuldaer Volkszeitung

2 JUNE 1947

“If I keep losing weight at
this rate, by 1:10 on 21 Sep-

“Lina is deceiving me, I' going to kill myself. Can
you send me your revolver?” “What's the sense in
that? Wait for the next ration period!”
From Frankenpost (Hof)

13

tember, I will have dis-
appeared completely.”
From Badische Neueste Nachrichten

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
support of the American nation, sev-
eral million people would already
have starved to death in Germany in
the last two years. It is a fact that
America is now shipping hundreds of
thousands of tons of cereal across the
ocean. It is a fact that the Amer-
ican taxpayers aré paying millions
of dollars for food for Germany. But
if there is at present, because of tech-
nical obstacles and difficulties of or-
ganization, a delay in the delivery of
bread grain, we must overcome this
dreadful interim period, no matter
how hard it will be for every single
individual.”

The Neue Presse (Coburg) concluded
an editorial in a tone of desperation:
“Our people are exhausted. They
must once again get enough to eat,
they must have hope and they want
to have faith. Words—even if they
come from an understanding heart—
are meaningless now. Something must
be done now, without hesitation or
contemplation; it must be done imme-
diately and thoroughly, in order to
prevent at the last moment the immi-
nent chaos.”

Zone Planning Hit

In one of the few criticisms by a
Soviet controlled paper of the Soviet
Zone, the Berliner Zeitung carried a
front page editorial critical of the
planning in that zone.

After briefly outlining the history
of planning in the Soviet Zone since
the beginning of the occupation, the
paper underscored the success of this
planning and then declared:

“But a close observer of economic
development cannot ignore the fact
that the east zone is still far from
areal planned economy and that great
efforts will have to be made to im-
prove and perfect the existing mea-
sures.”

Listing deficiencies, the paper point-
ed out that the planned figures are
not published but kept secret.

“This is a great fault, for only if
the plans are published can planned
economy become a matter of interest
to the entire population,” declared the
paper. “If there are good reasons why
plans for the whole zone cannot be

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

published, then at least detailed plans
could be published for the individual
districts. The result would be in-
creased initiative on the part of the
workers, self criticism, increase of
output, and limitation of the black
market.”

As a second criticism; the paper
observed that plans are issued from
the top to the bottom.

“A democratic planned economy
should be just the other way around,”
contended the paper. Detailing ‘its
ideas, the paper said that the com-
munities and plants should set up
planning committees which should
work out their plans and submit them
to higher groups, and so on up to
the central administrations and appro-
val of the occupation force.

Advising that the whole system is
a little unwieldy at present, the paper
reminded that planned economy
should be carried through as simply
as possible and should follow uniform
principles. It cited examples to show
that various branches follow varying
principles.

On the necessity of control—
“without which a planned economy
cannot function correctly”—the paper
contended that such control has only
been developed in the transport field.

Agreeing that only in a socialist
economy can one plan every single
aspect of life, the paper declared that
at least one today can plan in those
fields necessary to cover the vital
needs of the population. It concluded:

“The final aim which one must
keep in mind is central planning for
all of Germany. Presupposition to this
is the re-establishment of German
economic unity.”

Refugee Complaints

The Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel)
printed the following summary of ref-
ugee complaints in its letter column
—a type of complaint which can be
read weekly in the German press.

“We receive many letters, in which
refugees bitterly complain about the
treatment they have to endure. Many
people don't care that others have
to sleep on the floor, covered only
with thin woolen blankets in winter,

14

while they themselves are still in
possession of unused feather bedding.
They chase the few chickens of the
refugee from the yadr to prevent them
from eating together with their own.
They arbitrarily turn off the water
and the landlords delay repairs for
refugees and evacuees, without con-
sidering how much they thereby
aggravate the life of the tenants, par-
ticularly that of housewives, etc.”

Food Parley Praised

The call by Minister President Ehard
of Bavaria for a conference in Munich
6-7 June of the Land heads of all occu-
pied Germany to discuss the food
situation received wholehearted appro-
val from the licensed German press
in the US Zone. Comments such as
“This meeting is the most important
German event of the post-war period”
and “German authorities are morally
justified in appealing abroad only
after these problems have been solved
satisfactorily,“ appeared in the edito-
tials. i

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung
(Regensburg) commented: “The fact
that General Clay gave his approval
to the invitation of this meeting proves
that the American Occupation author-
ity knows the German problems best
and has developed very constructive
thoughts, and wants peace in Europe
and the world. And that should fill us
with new hope and confidence.”

The Wuerttembergisches Zeit Echo
(Schwaebisch-Hall) saw hope in united
German action arising from the Con-
ference of Minister Presidents. It said:

“With the invitation of Minister
President Ehard, Bavaria takes the
initiative for tackling the German prob-
lem. It is to be welcomed that this
happens at a moment when the
Moscow Conference which almost
turned into’ a failure has placed the
German population into a state of
profound depression and when, after
the horrors of the past winter, starva-
tion is looming in the distance.

“But it is of much greater import-
ance that the appeal to the Minister
Presidents of all German Lands came
from Bavaria. It proves that in Munich
too they are convinced that they
cannot live without the rest of Ger-
many. The Bavarian government has

2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 18 ---
taken the initiative for cooperation
with all German Minister Presidents
in consideration of the fact that the
German people is no longer capable,
physically or spiritually, of waiting
for a new winter of starvation and
freezing, in economic impoverishment
and political apathy."

The Muenchner Mittag (Munich)
praised the initiative of Dr. Ehard,
saying:

“Before we can appeal for help
from abroad we must exert great
efforts to master the difficulties our-
selves as far as possible. We can
count on support from abroad only
after all possibilities are exhausted.
The primary task of the conference...
will be to utilize indigenous German
resources to the greatest extent. If
the negotiations of the Minister Pres-
idents are confined only to these
questions, they have to tackle a vast
field of work."

The editorial then pointed out what
could be done in order to relieve the
bad German food situation: “German
authorities are morally justified in
appealing abroad only after these
problems have been solved | satis-
factorily. Only then can they place
responsibility on the occupation
powers, who will not—as we hope—
deny us help.”

The Schwaebische Donau Zeitung
(Ulm) attached great importance to the
conference, commenting: “Viewed
more closely, this meeting is the most
important German event of the post-
war period. An optimist would perhaps
even be tempted to regard it as the
beginning of a new hope that the
zonal barriers will be soon lifted...”

The editorial pointed out that the
destiny of 65 to 70 million people is
at stake, people who have a right to
live, regardless of the crimes commit-
ted by National Socialism. Regret was
expressed that, two years after the
end of the war, no German plans
have been submitted to the Allies
concerning reconstruction, restitution,
and the future destiny of Germany.
The editorial concluded:

“It would be regrettable, if this con-
ference which has aroused interest
not only among the German people
but to an ever-increasing degree all
over the world, should fail because
some Land governments are not allow-
ed to come to Munich."

2 JUNE 1947

Third Reparations Allotment

The third bulk allocation made by
the Economics Directorate of general
purpose equipment from German war
plants in the US Zone makes available
4,266 items consisting of machine tools
and other individual items of gene-
ral purpose equipment of war plants
for the peacetime requirements of
countries entitled to reparations. A
total of 3,378 items valued at
RM 11,663,459 were allocated to the
Western Nations and 888 items worth
RM 2,080,375 to the Soviet Union.

Of the five plants allocated to the
Western Nations, Fabrik Wolfrats-
hausen and Fabrik Kaufering, both
in Bavaria, are now in use in connect-
ion with the program for conversion
of German artillery ammunition into
nitrate fertilizer and scrap metals.
Delivery of equipment from these
plants will be made immediately after
completion of these programs.

The Heeres-Munitionsanstalt at
St. Georgen, Bavaria, is bing used for
the de-activation of toxic German
artillery ammunition. The equipment
from this plant will be delivered imme-
diately upon completion of this pro-
gram. The equipment in that part of
the Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz plant
located at Ulm which produced wea-
pon carriers and one-man submarines
is also being made available. The
equipment will also be taken from
the W.& W. Schenk Leichtgusswerke
at Maulbronn, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
which produced aluminium and brass
castings for airplane parts during
the war.

Plants allocated to the Soviet Union
are aircraft parts and precision tool
plants in Bavaria — Norris Zuend-
licht AG and Press-, Stanz- & Zieh-
werk (Rud. Chillingsworth), both at
Nuremberg, and Mikronwerke at
Aschaffenburg.

Norway received on 23 April the
first shipment of reparations equip-
ment — 60 metric tons from Baye-
rische Motorenwerke at Munich. The
first shipment of general purpose
equipment from Fabrik Ebenhausen,
explosive-chemical plant near Eben-
hausen, was dispatched to Denmark
on 6 May.

15

The first shipment from Henschel
Flugmotorenwerke airplane engines
plant at Holzhausen, Greater Hesse,
was sent to Poland on 21 April. Final
shipment from Kollis Metallwerke —
Reparations plant No. 121 at Reichen-
bach-Aalen, Wuerttemberg-Baden, was
made on 30 April when 241 tons of
equipment were dispatched to the
Soviet Union.

Shipments of reparations equipment
from the US Zone have been made to
Australia, Belgium, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, France, Greece, India,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zea-
land, Norway, United Kingdom, United
States, the USSR, and Poland.

Demolition of the aircraft testing
buildings at Henschel Flugmotoren-
werke, Kassel-Altebauna, Hesse, was
completed on 5 May.

Parole for Trial

Civilian internees who were not
members of organizations found to be
criminal by the International Military
Tribunal may now be paroled for
trial in their home communities in the
US Zone at the discretion of the Ger-
man denazification officials, it was
announced by, Public Safety Branch,
IA&C Division, OMGUS.

Stressing the fact that the granting
of this authority is an authorization
and not a direction, Public Safety
officials pointed out that the con-
tinued detention or the release for
trial in home communities will depend
upon the public prosecutor's assurance
that individual internees will report
to local authorities for trial.

Because most of the 47,000 cicilian
internees at present in camps in the
US Zone were members of criminal
organizations, only about 2,000 per-
sons will be concerned with the new
authorization.

MG Instruction

The European Command Intelligence
School at Oberammergau is con-
ducting special courses in instruction
for MG personnel. Information on, the
course was given in an OMGUS letter
of 11 April 1947.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Demilitarization Pressed

. A USFET letter dealing with future
use of former German fortifications or
defensive works has been emphasized
again by OMGUS. The letter is AG
388.3 GDS-AGO, “Survey and Dis-
posal of Fortifications, Defensive
Works, and Former German Armed
Force Zone of Interior Type of In-
stallations in Germany,” dated 13 Fe-
bruary 1947. It was endorsed to the
field by OMGUS on 7 March, but in-
spections by Hq EUCOM have reveal-
ed that lower echelons are not fami-
liar with the requirements and that
little action has been taken on the
matter. Hy EUCOM has requested
immediate action on the processing of
requests for use of subject installations
beyond 1 July 1947.

The major provisions of the letter
are repeated for the benefit of field
personnel:

Any former German fortification or
defensive work may be used for stor-
age or other purpose connected with
the mission of occupation only until
substitute facilities can be located.
Where for any purpose a fortification
or defensive work is required by the
occupation forces, clearance will be
obtained from USFET, giving the
reasons for, together with the exact
description and location of the in-
stallation required.

Where it is desired to utilize any
fortification or defensive work for the
purpose of storage or housing facilities
for the German civilian population, re-
quests for clearance for such use must
be submitted by the appropriate Office
of Military Government through the
major command in whose area the
installation is located, to USFET.
These requests for clearance, also,
must state the reason for retention,
and give an exact description and
location of the installation concerned.

All requests must show that every
effort will be made to locate suitable
substitute facilities as soon as possible.

It is desired that a list of all in-
stallations now in use of the local Ger-
man, population, Military Government
or US Forces, be submitted to USFET
for review, in order that a decision

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN.

may be reached with respect to the
postponement ‘of, or exemption from,
destruction of’ each installation.

The following information should be
included for each installation desired
for use after one July nineteen forty-
seven.

1. Exact location—giving map co-
ordinates. and town and street ad-
dresses,

2. Purpose for which installation
was originally constructed.

3:' Materials with which installation
is. constructed.

4. Is installation above
partially above ground,
ground?

ground,
or under

5. Size of installation.

6. Method by: which installation is
heated and ventilated.

7. Is installation part of a German
defensive system? If so, what type?

8. Is it a part of a larger building,
such as a. private home, apartment
house, office building, and so forth?

9, Would destruction of the build-
ing endanger surrounding civilian or
military installation? If so, how?

10. Present usage of installation?
by whom; if German civilian, under
what authority?

Wire Service Added

Agreements have been reached for
the reopening of civil telecommuni-
cations service between the US and
British zones and the following coun-
tries: Denmark, Luxembourg, Sweden,
Norway, Czechoslovakia, Switzerland,
and France.

This service was opened to the
United States, all countries of the
Western Hemisphere, the United King-
dom, Ireland, Belgium, and Holland
on 1 April.

Only those Germans directly con-
cerned with the economic rehabili-
tation of Germany who are licensed
by the Joint Export-Import Agency
(US-UK) are permitted to originate in-
ternational telephone calls and tele-
grams,

16

SED Plea Denied .

Dr. Roger H. Wells, Acting Director;
Civil Administration Division, OM-
GUS, announced that US Military
Government has received application
from the Bavarian Communist Party
(KPD) to merge with he Socialist
Unity Party (SED) of Germany.  Per-
mission has been denied for the
following reason: 3

While the SED party claims to ‘e-
present an amalgamation of the Social
Democratic and Communist parties;
no request has been received from
Social. Democratic (SPD) leaders to
join in the proposed merger. Military
Government cannot approve a change
in name by the Communist party in
Bavaria to SED, which would imply
an amalgamation of SPD and KPD
that has not occurred. :

This decision, Dr. Wells stated, is
made without prejudice to the gene-
ral freedom of operation which Mili-
tary Government extends to all de:
mocratic political parties in the US
Zone of Germany. There ‘is no ob-
jection to amalgamation of parties on
a zonal basis, provided the merger is
voluntary, mutual, and corresponding
to the wishes of the members of both
parties concerned.

The question of the status of Ger-
man-wide political parties, Dr. Wells
added, has not yet been decided by
the Allied Control Authority.

Liaison and Security Officers have
been advised by OMGUS not under
any circumstances to undertake action
themselves on similar matters. If the
question comes up to them, they
should telephone their Land Political
Activities Officer in the Land Civil
Affairs Division. This officer has full
instructions on the matter.

Parcel Post Service

Parcel post service between the
city of Berlin and all four occupation
zones of Germany, was reopened
15 May under quadripartite approval.
The weight limit for small packets ‘is
two kilograms and for parcels seven
kilograms, Only ordinary parcels and
ordinary registered small packets are
accepted by the Reichspost' for trans-
mission at rates which will be double
those in effect prior to the occupation.

2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 20 ---
US Food Responsibility Cited

he current food crisis in western

Germany has created differing
comment in the US press, as to the
pasic causes of the shortage. However,
the editorials generally agree that the
United States as an occupying nation
must send food to Germany to pre-
vent future economic and social dis-
organization disastrous to Europe and
the world.

New York Tribune: “The immediate
food crisis in Germany can, perhaps,
be exaggerated. Herbert Hoover points
out that it is due not to any failure
of planned deliveries by occupying
powers but to failure of indigenous
supplies — for which Germans them-
selves must share at least some of
the responsibility. Secretary Patter-
son declares that 800,000 tons of food,
mostly from the United States, will
be rushed into Germany within the
next two months and more thereafter.
General Clay declares that the worst
will be over within the next few
weeks .. . We are evidently some
distance still from social chaos as a
result of hunger...

“But if this is a passing crisis, it is
still a grim reminder of the ragged
edge on which our occupation of Ger-
many is operating. If the ration is
restored, it will still be a ration of
only 1,550 calories; and anyone who
has tried it may be able to form some
idea of what a perpetual prospect of
such a standard, unrelieved by hope
of better, threatened constantly by
such collapses as the present one, is
bound to mean to the German people
over a period of time ...

“This nation is willing to pledge its
arms and power to preventing Ger-
many from again becoming a war
danger; but it must also be willing to
pledge its energy and capital to-
gether with its power to the re-crea-
tion of a world in which even the
Germans will not present the no less
deadly danger of a sink-hole of star-
vation and despair.”

2 JUNE 1947

Washington Post: “The food crisis
in western Germany is not the fault
of British and American occupation
forces; but because they are occu-
piers, the crisis is unescap a bly their
responsibility and their problem. The
origin of the trouble, of course, is the
zonal division of Germany and the
failure of the Soviet Government to
realize the underlying premise of
Potsdam Agreement, that the con-
quered Reich should be treated as an
economic unit. The Russians, occu-
pying the most important food-pro-
ducing region of Germany, comple-
tely cut off shipment of supplies
from this breadbasket to the more
heavily industrialized British and
American Zones which could never
be, even under ideal conditions, self-
sustaining in respect of food...

“We cannot permit the starvation
and consequent degeneration of a
people for whom we have assumed
responsibility. For one thing, as Mr.
Hoover noted, ‘Our flag flies over
these people. That flag means some-
thing besides military power.’ For
another, we can relieve ourselves of
the burden we have assumed in Ger-
many only by enabling the Germans
to become self-supporting. Adequate
food from America is the indispen-
sable means toward that end."

Baltimore Sun: ‘The food crisis in
Germany was not due to lack of plan-
ning, or bureaucratic mismanagement,
or communistic plotting, or any of those
other bogeymen we usually conjure
up on such an occasions. If we must
have a scapegoat, the severe winter
just passed is the most fitting one...

“The best accounts seem to indicate
that the worst of the shortage is past.
Speedier distribution has been under-
taken, the calmer heads among the
German union leaders and_ political
spokesmen have explained the situa-
tion and the prospect, and the people
seem to be patient once more...

17

that, in the occupied regi®ns, we work
on a slim margin of food...

“We have a special obligation with
reference to Germans in our zone. We
arer their conquerors. In that role we
conceive it our duty to win them over
to our way of thinking. But’a hungry
pupil learns nothing and is all too
likely to be unruly as well...

“A proper stockpile of food in Ger-
many could well be a kind of insur-
ance against something infinitely
more costly.”

St. Louis Post-Dispatch: ‘One of the
reasons we are in Germany is to show
the difference between Hitler's way
and our way. This does not mean,
however, that we are enjoined from
seeing that the Germans do all they
can to feed themselves...

“There is good reason to believe
that German officials could do more
than they have done to achieve an
equitable distribution of German food
stocks. Americans are willing and
ready to help feed Europe, even their
wartime enemies, but they are entitled
to the assurance that every last Ger-
man is doing his own part of the
sharing.”

Baton Rouge (La.) Advocate: “Hunger
in Germany is but symptomatic of a
critical worldwide condition. While
the occupation authorities keep a
close eye on conditions in Germany
and do what they can to relieve
hunger there, they might remind the
German people that during the war
Germany ate while millions in the
conquered countries starved. How-
ever, we are not going to let the
Germans starve to death. We are not
going to try to exterminate them.
Hunger such as prevails in Germany
now delays the coming of the time
when Germans will be self-supporting
and if we do nothing to ease that
hunger it will cost us more in the
long run.”

New Orleans Times-Picayune: ‘Hun-
ger in Germany is breeding bitter
resentment against the occupying
powers... The food situation, how-

WEEKLY INFORMATION ELULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
ever, is only one manifestation of
a deeper-seated economic and politi-
cal affliction.”

Milwaukee Journal: “We have vol-
untarily assumed a program of doing
as much as we can. In the first three
and a half months of this year we
sent more than one million tons of
food into ‘the American and British
Zones...

“We have done this partly for hu-
manitarian reasons and partly to
further our program of winning the
peace, We are trying to prevent the
disintegration of Germany. We want
a people who can function agricul-
turally and industrially, and we hope
they will function as a democracy.
Such a stabilized condition would help
all Europe. So we do all we can.

“But to have Germans now get up
and attempt to say what they will
accept and ‘what they will not is in-
tolerable. Their effort to push a pro-
gram of confusion and resistance
has to be stopped.”

Philadelphia Bulletin: ‘The Germans
are very morose over the situation.
This is natural, but the blame they
seek to put on Americans for their
plight is unwarranted. Secretary of
War Patterson is justified in pointing
out that there is no precedent for the
scale on which in Germany the con-
querors have sought to feed the de-
feated enemy.”

Re-educating Germans

Is a bent toward war hopelessly
ingrained in the German people? Not
in the opinion of a majority of the
public, according to nation-wide (Uni-
ted States) survey results released by
the National Opinion Research Cen-
ter, University of Denver. NORC
found that 68 percent of the people
in this country (as of last winter)
felt that it would be possible to re-
educate the Germans to a peaceful
way of life.

Re-educating the Germans is seen
as a long-term program. Eighteen
percent said they believed it would
take 10 years or less to re-educate
the Germans but the median estima-
tes were 18 years. However, there
was a sizable group of the opinion
that re-education was not possible.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

NORC asked: “Do you think it is
possible to re-educate the German
people to a peaceful way of life?”
The answers were: Yes, 68 percent,
No, 22 percent, Don't know, 10 per-
cent. Those who answered “Yes”
were asked: “About how long do you
think it will take?’ The answer to
this 68 percent were: Five years or
less, seven percent; 6-10 years 11 per-
cent, 11-20 years, 19 percent, 21-50
years, 22 percent, over 50 years 6 per-
cent, don't know 3 percent.

The college-educated were con-
sistently most optimistic about the
possibility of re-educating the people.
That the German people can be re-
educated was the view of 77 percent
of the college-trained, 73 percent of
those, with high school experience
and 59 percent of those with no more
than an eighth grade education,

Charges against Farben

The New York Times in an editorial
entitled ‘Farben Stands Indicted”, said
in part:

“If the charges filed in Nuremberg
are sustained the United States,
through its chief prosecutor in Ger-
many, Brigadier General Telford Tay-
lor, will have brought to the bar the
most sinister group of business men
in all human history. These are 24
top officials of I. G. Farben-Industrie,
once most powerful chemical combine
in world. Without Farben Hitler could
not have fought his war. From 1923
on he prepared for it, and from 1939
to end he fought it, with aid’ of re-
sources Farben commanded. and pro-
duced.

“Farben'’s synthetic gasoline... syn-
thetic rubber tires ... aluminium ...
magnesium ... explosives went into
the attacks on Coventry, Plymouth,
and London. If the indictment stands—
and it fits with what has become
common knowledge since the end of
the war—Farben did these things as
a part of the deliberate conspiracy to
inflict the curse of Nazism on man-
kind ...

“Farben had its own murder camps
near Oswiecim. It had labor ‘turn-
over’ in its Buna plant at Oswiecim
of 300 percent a year ... It provided
‘poison gases and various deadly

18

pharmaceuticals’ which were used in
experiments on human beings. The
24 persons mentioned in indictment
all had something to do with one or
other of Farben's multifarious acti-
vities.

“This hideous concern, whose ori-
gins go back nearly to the turn of the
century, didnot always wear such an
evil face. Its gentlemanly negotiators,
in pre-war days, were able to do
business with rivals in other countries,
Among its weapons, as the indictment
states, ‘were cartel agreements with
more than 2,000 major industrial con-
cerns in the UnitedStates, Great Britain,
France, Norway, Netherlands, Belgium,
and Poland’. Economic morality of a
cartel may be questioned by some,
accepted by others... In the case of
Farben and other corporations in the
same world field, the cartel brought
about some division of markets, some
exchange of information, some licen-
sing of patents and, in the opinion of
qualified observers, a growing re-
straint on technological progress out-
side Germany. As the war Hitler had
planned drew nearer Farben feathered
its own foul Nazi nest.

“Relationships between Farben and
American corporations have had pre-
vious attention, notably from US Con-
gressional investigating -committees.
As the indicted men go to trial more
light should be thrown on this phase
of the situation ... We do not believe
that any American corporation exe-
cutive knowingly strengthened Hitler
at expense of his own country. But
those who dealt with him, or with his
Farben agents, after the outbreak of
war in 1939, were playing with fire. If
only for the good repute of the inno-
cent, that period and situation need
to be still further explored.

“This indictment expands the pre-
cedent set by the original Nurem-
berg trials. Guilt for aggressive war,
and for evil acts committed in war,
is not confined to government officials
or to soldiers. It extends to all who
hold power, whether or not it is
official power. Farben was converted
into an atrocious weapon of the
German state. If the 24 men indicted
were responsible, in their fields, for
what Hitler's Germany planned and
did, they are as guilty as those who
died on the Nuremberg gallows."

2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 22 ---
Supplies for UNRRA

EUCOM letter, “Supply of UNRRA
from US Army Sources,” AG 400
GDS—AGO of 16. April 47, gives the
latest regulations on this subject, Ac-
cording to an announcement by the
PW &DP Division, OMGUS, previous
EUCOM directives relative to the sup-
port of UNRRA and UNRRA personnel,
including all voluntary agencies accre-
dited to UNRRA, have been rescinded.
The term “UNRRA installations” in-
cludes UNRRA headquarters, liaison
groups, teams, motor pools, and all
other UNRRA units and accredited
agencies in the US area of control
in Germany.

The operation of United Nations
displaced persons centers is the
responsibility of the Commander-
in-Chief, EUCOM. The assistance
furnished by UNRRA in supplies or
personnel in no way relieves the
C-in-C of this responsibility. Sup-
plies for UNDP's are furnished for the
most part by C-in-C from supplies
under his control, and the procure-
ment of such supplies is covered by
other directives. The military forces
are responsible for providing certain
items of supply for use of UNRRA
personnel and UNRRA administration,
which are furnished subject to mili-
tary requirements and availability.

The reference letter gives details
concerning the issuance of sub-
sistence to UNRRA personnel only
upon presentation of Ration Return
OTCQM Form 4 and payment there-
fore; use of Army messes for individ-
ual meals and payment of meals for
hospitalized UNRRA personnel; use
of post exchanges and other services;
hospitalization and medical and dental
treatment; issuance of expendable
and non-expendable supplies, motor
POOL coupon books, supplies for
Czechoslovakian Guard Detachment;
official travel of UNRRA personnel
without reimbursement; provision of
billets, heating accommodations and
facilities, telephone, teletype, and
courier service without reimburse-
ment; maintenance of UNRRA ve-
hicles without reimbursement; use of
Army Postal Service, franking or free
mail privileges not being authorized
to UNRRA or UNRRA personnel;
transportation of UNRRA supplies via

2 JUNE 1947

Brig. Gen. Cornelius E. Ryan has been named Assistant to the Deputy
Military Governor, OMGUS, to fill the vacancy created by ihe promotion
in March of Maj. Gen. Frank A. Keating to Depuiy Military Governor
and Commanding General, OMGUS, He also is the US Member of the

Berlin Kommandatura,

the four-power control ,authority for Berlin.

Previously General Ryan had been Commanding General of the Berlin

Command, OMGUS,

and of the Headquarter Command, USFET, in

Photo by PRO, OMGUS

Frankturt.
tail and costs incident thereto;
accounting for supplies issued to

UNRRA, inventory of all non-ex-
pendable US Army property and the
use of memorandum receipts; pro-
hibition against movement of any
US Army property by UNRRA except
as provided in letter, “Disposition
of Property upon Change of Station
within European Theater", USFET,
AG 400.7 GDS—AGO, 7. Nov. 46.

Labor Education Study

Mrs. Alice Hanson Cook, special
adviser to Military Government on
labor education, is making a three-
week tour through the US and British
Zones conferring with and advising

19

German officials on the problems of
labor education. Later she will report
to Military Government on the prob-
lems in this field of education and
make recommendations for their solu-
tion.

“Germany cannot become a free
democratic nation without strong and
democratic trade unions," Mrs, Cook
declared in Berlin. “Labor education is
the best way to insure that the trade
unions will be democratic, for it is
in this field that the most vital con-
tacts are made with the workers
themselves. The German people must
realize their responsibility toward this
field of education as well as toward
other educational fields, and must
give it their full support if it is to
succeed.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS |

Change 1 to Title 10, Communica-
tions, AG 014.12, OMGUS, 16 Feb-
tuary 1947, Supersedes — previous
Title 10. Text of new Title 10 issued
15 March 1947,

Change 19 to Title 23, Military
Government Legislation, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 28 February 1947, Makes
additions to original: Title 23 to
include ACA and MG laws and or-
dinances.’ Text of MGR issued same
date.

Change 5 to Title 7, Public Wel-
fare, AG 014.12, OMGUS, March 1947.
Supersedes previous Title 7 and four
changes, Text of new Title 7. issued
same date.

Change 3 to Title 8, Education and
Religious Affairs, AG 014,12, OMGUS,
14 March 1947, Supersedes previous
Title 8 and two changes. Text of new
Title 8 issued same date.

Change 20 to Title 23, Military
Government Legislation, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 17: March 1947,:Makes three
additions to original. Title 23 to
include ACA and MG laws and eordi-
nances. Text of MGR issued same
date.

Change 2 to Title 16, Finance, AG
014.12, OMGUS, 21 March 1947. Su-
persedes previous Title 16 and one
change. Text of new Title 16 issued
same date.

Change 21 to Title 23, Military
Government Legislation, AG, 014.12,
OMGUS, 2 April 1947, Makes seven
additions to original Title 23 to in-
clude ACA and MG laws, directives,
and proclamation. Text of MGR
issued same date.

European Command Technical Ser-
vice Organization, AG 322 GDS-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 23 April 1947. Amends
previous letter of 5 April 1947 as to
redesignations and reassignments.

United States Military Liaison Mis-
sion, AG 322.01 GCT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 29 April 1947. Implements
EUCOM General Orders No. 17 of
1947 as to the US Military Liaison
Mission to the Commander in Chief,
Soviet Occupied Zone of Germany.

Authorized Guests for Snack Bars,
AG 331.2 GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
29 April 1947, States procedure to use
‘by occupation personnel and their
guests, including non-Allied. ,

2-JUNE 1947

Transmission of Intelligence Field
Files upon Transfer of Military Per-
sonnel, AG 201.2. GBI-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 1 May 1947,

Procurement, Utilization, and Ad-
ministration of Civilian Labor in Lib-
erated or Occupied Countries, AG
230 GAP-AGE, Hq EUCOM, 1 May
1947, Rescinds SOP No. 29 of 26 May
1944 and gives authority to Ameri-
can Graves Registration Command.

Signal Operating Instructions, Ra-
dio Call Sign Assignments Nr. 17-1,
Hq EUCOM, 1 May 1947.

Hours of Work—Civilian Employ-
ees, Civilian Personnel Circular 18,
Hq EUCOM, 1 May 1947.

Censorship of Civilian Internee
Mail, AG 311.7'GBI-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
2 May 1947.

1947 European Command Tennis
Championship, AG 353.8 SSP-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 2 May 1947.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

1947 European Command Cham-
pionships, AG 353.8 SSP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 2 May 1947.

Consolidation of Small Unit Facili-
ties, AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
3 May 1947. Concerns consolidation
and: utilization of available housing.

Gardening Program 1947. AG 403
GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 3 May 1947.
Gives details for such activities by
static organizations.

Control Council Law No. 52
Amending Control Council Law
No. 16, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS,
6 May 1947, Text of law made public
29 April 1947.

Fiscal Station Numbers, AG 130
BFD-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 May 1947.
Gives status as of 15 April 1947,

Circular No. 28, Hq EUCOM, 9 May
1947. Duty Travel Orders and Clear-
ance. Cites current requirements for
such travel in Europe.

Eligibility of War Department Ci-
vilian Employees for Transporting
their Dependents to the European

20

Theater. AG 230 GAP-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 9 May 1947, Amends letter
of 10 February 1947,

Military Posts, AG 322 GCT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947. Amends
USFET letter of 21 February 1947 as
to Air Force installations within
Frankfurt Military Post.

Company Tailor Shops, AG 486.3
RMJ-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947,
Provides for establishment of these
shops.

Policies with Respect .to German
Dependents, AG 292 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 12 May 1947. Amends letter
of 2 May 1947 as to sale of subsistence.

Redesignation of Bulk Allotment
Installations and Units (non-T/O), AG
322 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 12 May
1947, Deletes redesignation of three
units in USFET letter of 8 October
1946,

Changes No. 7, USFET-SOP 78,

Sales Commissary Operation, Hq
EUCOM, 13 May 1947. Lists two
changes,

Establishment of OMGUS Civilian
Employees Efficiency Rating Commit-
tee, AG 230.4 (PO), OMGUS, 15 May
1947,

Safety Bulletin, AG 729.3 PMG-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 May 1947. Cov-
ers April.

Appointment in the Officers Reser-
ve Corps of Officers now on Active
Duty, AG 210.1 (PO), OMGUS, 16 May
1947,

Fiscal Station Numbers, AG 130
BFD-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 17 May 1947.
Amends letter of 6 May 1947 (note
above).

Control Council Directive No. 51,
AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 19 May 1947.

Personnel Return to US on TDY in
connection with CA/MG Matters, AG
230.42 (PO), OMGUS, 21 May 1947.
Gives instructions on reporting on
arrival in the United States.

Advance Amendment to Title 15,
Manpower Administration, Military
Government Regulations, AG 010.6
(CO), 22 May 1947, Amends MGR on
“Notice—Strikes and Lockouts.”

Change 2 to Title 12, Food and
Agriculture, AG 010.1 (CO), OMGUS,
22 May 1947. Apds-MGR on “Unlaw-
ful Use of Rationed Foodstuffs and
Rationing Documents.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 24 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR ;
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Lucius D. Clay
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Ha & Sv Co

*S-10 SK Stuttgart
*S-21 LK Boeblingen
*S-23 LK Esslingen
*S-29 LK Ludwigsburg
*S-30 LK Waiblingen
*S-50 LK Backnang
*S-53 LK Leonberg
*-55 LK Nuertingen
*§-58 LK Vaihingen

*M-16 SK/LK Mannheim
*M-43 SK/LK Heidelberg
*M-89 LK Buchen

*M-90 LK Mosbach

*M-91 LK Tauberbischofsheim
*M-92 LK Sinsheim

*K-47SK/LK Karlsruhe
*K-46 SK/LK Pforzheim
*K-87 LK Bruchsal

*H-28 SK/LK Heilbronn
*H-22 LK Crailsheim

*H-26 LK Schwaebisch Hall
*H-52 LK Kuenzelsau

*H-54 LK Mergentheim
*H-56 LK Oehringen

*U-11 SK/LK Ulm

*U-25 LK Goeppingen

*U-20 LK Aalen

*U-24 LK Schwaebisch Gmuend
*U-27 LK Heidenheim

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co MG Bn (Sep)

_ Sv Co MG Bn (Sep)

*LK Alsfeld

*LK Bergstrasse & Worms
*LK Biedenkopf

*LK Budingen

*SK/LK Darmstadt

+ Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area
Stuttgart
Boeblingen
Esslingen
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Leonberg
Nuertingen
Vaihingen

Mannheim Area
Mannheim
Heidelberg
Buchen
Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
Sinsheim

Karlsruhe Area
Karlsruhe
Pforzheim
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area
Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schwaebisch Hall
Kuenzelsau
Bad Mergentheim
Oehringen

Ulm Area
Ulm
Goeppingen
Aalen
Schwaebisch Gmuend
Heidenheim

LAND HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel
Alsfeld
Heppenheim
Biedenkopf
Budingen
Darmstadt

Maj Gen F A Keating
Deputy Military Governor
Brig Gen Cornelius E Ryan
Asst. to Depty Mil Gov

Mr Sumner Sewall

Lt Col M O Edwards
ist Lt F J Czeiner

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst

Capt N Semaschko Jr
Capt E P Oja

Maj F A Hubbard
Capt R Forrest

Capt S P Giunta

Maj F S Capell

Capt S Smith

Lt Col CH C Rue
Lt Col C L Jackson
Capt C A Wright
Capt J Zecca

Capt N W Barber
Capt J E Switzer

Maj C S Keena
Maj R_H Stimson
Capt T C Stenson

Lt Col CH J West
Capt R C Lawton
Maj S A Warren
Capt T E Griswold
Capt B V Bloom
Capt G H Caple

Mai M L Hoover
Lt Col A G Spitz
Maj C H Pallette
Maj R Lascoe
Maj L H Kyle

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
ist Lt P J Weiss
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt S A Karas

Maj A Gill

Capt W L Culbertson
Capt G P Johnson
Lt Col A Skarry

2 JUNE 1947

21

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
*LK Dieburg Dieburg Capt M S Clark
*LK Dill Dillenburg Mai B L Bassinor
*LK Erbach Erbach Maj L H Brown
*LK Eschwege Eschwege Maj G P Moore
*LK Frankenberg Frankenberg Maj L S Williams
*SK Frankfurt Frankfurt Maj G C Sola
‘LK Friedberg Friedberg Maj P E Perry
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg Fritzlar Maj W C Gipple
*SK/LK Fulda Fulda Lt Col H R Cress
*LK Gelnhausen Gelnhausen Capt C D Fexy
SK/LK Giessen Giessen Maj C R Russe
*LK Gross Gerau Gross-Gerau Capt N C Neider
SK/LK Hanau Hanau Maj R A Gish
*LK Hersfeld Hersfeld Maj John Connelly
*LK Hofgeismar Hofgeismar Capt L R Allen
*LK Hunfeld Hunfeld Capt W G Westbrook Jr
*SK/LK Kassel Kassel Lt Col G J Albrecht
*LK Lauterbach Lauterbach Capt C R Argo
*LK Limburg Limburg Capt J S Chapin
*LK Maintaunus Hofheim: Maj J C Nelson
*SK/LK Marburg Marburg Lt Col C H Reed
*LK Melsungen Melsungen Capt W F Hintz
*LK Oberlahn Weilburg Lt Col M A Meacham
*LK Obertaunus Bad Homburg Capt J C Nottingham
*SK/LK Offenbach Offenbach Lt Col J C Rose
*LK Rheingau Ruedesheim Mai M Baymor
*LK Rotenburg Rotenburg Capt S Kershaw
*LK Schluchtern Schluchtern Capt O Howard
*LK Usingen Usingen Capt J N Francis
*LK Untertaunus Bad Schwalbach Maj M E Chotas
*LK Waldeck Korbach Maj C F Parshall
*LK Wetzlar Wetzlar Maj D Easterday
*SK Wiesbaden Wiesbaden Col F H Boucher
*LK Witzenhausen Witzenhausen Maj E E Covell
*LK Wolfhagen Wolfhagen Capt T E Faircloth
*LK Ziegenhain Ziegenhain Capt T W Harris

Office of Mil Gov LAND BAVARIA

for Bavaria Munich Brig Gen W J Muller
3rd Mil Gov Regt (APO 407)
Ha 3rd, Mil Gov Regt Munich Col C C Morgan
Hq & Sv Company Munich Maj R M Schwartz
Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken
Co A Wuerzburg Lt Col M E Henderson
*A-210 SK/LK Wuerzburg Wuerzburg Lt Col Robert Herbison
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg Aschaffenburg Lt Col M W Crouse
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt Schweinfurt Lt Col K A Keveren
*A-250 LK Kissingen Bad Kissingen Maj R C Jernigin
*A-251 LK Kitzingen Kitzingen Maj E H Emry
*A-330 LK Alzenau Alzenau Capt A T Neumann
*A-331 LK Brueckenau Brueckenau Maj R C Gesell
*A-332 LK Ebern Ebern Capt D J Huffman
*A-333 LK Gemuenden Gemuenden Maj J S Sullivan
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen Gerolzhofen Capt V R Hurst
*A-335 LK Hammelburg Hammelburg Maj R J Holmes
*A-336 LK Hassfurt Hassfurt Capt R E Hellmig
*A-337 LK Hofheim Hofheim Capt F L Beelby
*A-338 LK Karlstadt Karlstadt Mai J E Breland
*A-339 LK Koenigshofen Koenigshofen Capt S E Witty
*A-340 LK Lohr Lohr Capt H C Morley
*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld Markt Heidenfeld Capt I A Lowell
*A-342 Mellrichstadt Mellrichstadt Maj A C McIntyre
*A-343 LK Miltenberg Miltenberg Maj G M Marsh
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale) Neustadt (Saale) Maj H P Clark
*A-345 LK Obernburg Obernburg Capt L A Williams
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt Ochsenfurt Maj E C Wimberly
Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken
Co B Ansbach Col E M Haight
*B-211 SK/LK Nuernberg Nuernberg Lt Col J C Barnet

* Liaison and Security

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN 22 2 JUNE 1947

--- Page 26 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*B-222 SK/LK Bamberg '
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreuth
*B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 Coburg
*B-226 LK Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Fuerth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
LK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hoechstadt (Aisch)
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz
*B-256 LK Muenchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuehl
'B-262 LK Eichstaett
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein ©
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf
*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila
*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D

*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg

*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
(Wald)

*D-243 SK/LK Passau

*D-244 SK/LK Amberg

*D-245 SK/LK Landshut

*D-246 SK/LK Straubing

*D-274 LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach

*D-301 LK Deggendorf

*D-302 LK Eggenfelden

*D-303 LK Grafenau

*D 304 LK Kelheim

*D-305 LK Landau (Isar)

*D-306 Pfarrkirchen

*D-307 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen

*D-309 LK Vilsbiburg

*D-310 LK Wolfstein

*D-349 LK Kemnath

*D-350 LK Nabburg

*D-351 LK Oberviechtach

*D-352 LK Riedenberg

*D-353 LK Vohenstrauss

*D-354 LK Roding

*D-355 LK Waldmuenchen

*D-356 LK Beilngries

*D-357 LK Neumarkt (Opf.)

*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Fuerth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hoechstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Muenchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbueh]
Eichstaett
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf

Neustadt (Aisch)
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zwiesel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Lt Col J A McEboy
Lt Col S R D Smith
Lt Col J A Thompson
Lt Col F Robie

Maj H T Lund

Maj F Meszar

Lt Col F Yardley

Maj H Zum

Maj T_B Stuart
Capt O M Cole
Capt M B Moorfield
Maj H L Woodall
Capt J R Palmer
Maj T Cleary

Maj R C Anderson
Capt G Hultzen
Capt F J Cramer
Maj A F Adams
Capt R Julien

Capt N E Petty

1st Lt M McDaniels
Capt J R Lewis
Capt A A Gunter
Maj C W Collier
Maj F K Hinchey
1st Lt G P Geibe
Maj C J Cody

ist Lt J W Horton
Maj F C Smith
Capt G B Jones
Capt J H Campbell
Maj F T Brewster

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj G J Ganer

Maj C G Doyle

Lt Col R T Nichols
Mai H J Mrachek
Maj R E Boyd

Maj D L O’Roark
Capt I R Mariels
Capt E C Phillips
Mai E O Carlson
Capt E A McNamara
Mai S Kommel

Maj E Fitcher

Mai H A Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt A J Harwood
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickham
Capt K K Miller
Lt Col G M Foster
Maj_ J P Sartz

1st Lt G L Thomas
Capt R N McWhorter
Maj V M Corbin
Mai I G Shackelford
Maj J Mulholland
Capt M C Gibbons
Maj B B Coullahan
Maj L P Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj R O Woodward
Capt R W Ziegler
Capt V D Dygert

2 JUNE 1947

23

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
*D375 LK Bogen Bogen Maj J F Staudinger
*D-377 LK Dingolfing Dingolfing Maj W J Pugh
*D-378 LK Griesbach Griesbach Capt C G Dansby
*D-379 LK Koetzting Koetzting Maj J J Maher Jr
*D-380 LK Mainburg Mainburg Capt E R Garrison
*D-381 LK Mallersdorf Mallersdorf Capt G C Jones
*D-382 LK Rottenburg Rottenburg Maj R E Levy
*D-383 LK Viechtach Viechtach Maj J F Rey
*D-385 LK Wegscheid Obernzell Capt N Ugland

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

CoE Munich Lt Col R J Philipott
*E-213 SK/LK Munich Munich Lt Col J H Kelly
-231 SK/LK Freising Freising Mai V L Thom
*E-232 LK Miesbach Miesbach Capt W A Forys
*E-233 LK Traunstein Traunstein Capt C W Larimer
*E-234 LK Altoetting Altoetting Mai D S Root
*-235 SK/LK Rosenheim Rosenheim Lt Col S R Place
°E-236 LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen Garmisch Lt Col R T Shelby
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt Ingolstadt Lt Col J A Crewe
*E-280 LK Erding Erding Capt G D Jacobson
*E-281 LK Laufen Laufen Capt T Eshleman
*E-282 LK Muehldorf Muehldorf Maj M E Hough
*E-283 LK Wasserburg Wasserburg Maj L R Day
*E-284 LK Toelz Bad Toelz Maj A O Froede
*E-285 LK Aibling Bad Aibling Maj W Williams
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck Fuerstenfeldbruck ist Lt C C Boatwright
*E-287 LK Landsberg Landsberg Maj K B Cassidy
*E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen Pfaffenhofer Maj HE Reed
*E-289 LK Starnberg Starnberg Cant B B Posey
*E-290 LK Weilheim Weilheim Capt C A Brown
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen Wolfratshausen Maj T A Christophil
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden Berchtesgaden Mai W W Perham
*E-361 LK Ebersberg Ebersberg Maj C A Rein
*E-362 LK Aichach Aichach Capt A T Kutauskas
*E-364 Schrobenhausen Schrobenhausen Capt Jesse L Ott
*E-367 Dachau Dachau Ist Lt J A Walker
*E-368 Schongau Schongau Maj A J Le Feare

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

CoG Augsburg Lt Col C M Avery
*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg Augsburg Lt Col J R Hector
*G-239 LK Dillingen Dillingen Lt J R Barker

*G-240 LK Neu-Ulm Neu-Ulm Maj H E Howlett
*G-241 LK Sonthofen Sonthofen Capt J_N Urtes
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten Kempten Lt Col R A Norton
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth Donauwoerth Maji_W S Reed

*G-293 LK Guenzberg Guenzberg 1st Lt W C Weisaar
*G-294 LK Markt Oberdorf Markt Oberdorf Capt S D Lubin

*G-295 LK Memmingen Memmingen Mai E R Wagner
*G-296 LK Mindelheim Mindelheim Lt Col H H Bond
*G-297 LK Neuberg Neuberg Maj H M Sebastian
*G-298 LK Noerdlingen Noerdlingen Capt J A Morris
*G-299 LK Fuessen Fuessen Capt F W Guzak
*G-300 LK Krumbach Krumbach Capt H V Worthington
*G-369 LK Illertissen Illertissen ist Lt J P Montgomery
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren Kaufbeuren Mai M G Norum
*G-372 LK Wertingen Wertingen 1st Lt W H Brownell
*G-373 LK Friedberg Friedberg Capt D J Moran
*G-374 LK Schwabmuenchen Schwabmuenchen ist Lt E C Pare

LAND BREMEN (APO 751)

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Bremen Mr T F Dunn
Wesermuende Detachement ‘Wesermuende Lt Col L S Diggs

BERLIN SECTOR (APO 742-A)
Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector Berlin Mr F L Howley

* Liaison and Security

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF