--- Page 2 ---
NUMBER 94 / 26 MAY 1947

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
ORF MARBURG
LAUTERBACH
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN

OBER *
er

OFFENBACH

ROTEN BURG

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

|EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAL

HEILBRONN

ma

LEONBER Sona
BOBLINGEN Fraps

OFSHEIM

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

The cover picture shows a group of boys
“at ihe UNRRA Jewish Camp for Children at

;

_Landenfels, The photograph was taken by TA BL E (@) F CG (6) NT E NT S

) Sam Rosenberg, photographic consultant
yassigned to the Control Office, OMGUS, Issue No. 94, 26 May 1947

Refugees:and Expellecs:!.. (0.0. I a ee aes
CUR CONTRIBUTORS Saca ofan. Expelecoue tse. 3) sth isa a tipm se Us gee
Refugees and Expellees was prepared by Combined NutnitionSurvey. 95. 2.455... . «7
“Thorley C. Mills, Refugee Branch, PW and citi
ioe ‘ Z Services Offered Visiting Buyers. . . . » ... 9
pe Division, OMGUS. The article gives a eu
_Composite picture of the problem faced by Silver Train to Hungary s 235. sous. eet te ee
. the German community in assimilating the
hewcomers. A companion article, Saga of Stagnant Inflation . . ©. ++ ++ +++ ss
am Expellee, was written by one of these F 15
newcomers giving her own reactions to this Corman aC HOnS 17 ae eee chine Co, Fe
great organized movement of peoples.
a a Bee aes Press and Radio Comment .. 2 . 2. eae Sa eee 17

Combined Nutrition Survey is taken in
part from the report issued by French, Officialtinstructions .. , a)).056) deers ey ae ee 9
British, and US Nutrition Committee mem-
bers, Facts on how the survey was con-
ducted were furnished by Dr. Charles E.
Brown, an OMGUS Welfare representative
who was on this Committee studying the
conditions in the three zones.
Silver Train to Hungary details the
restitution of three million dollars worth of

Silver, found cached in Germany, to its

rightful owner, the Hungarian Government.
The material for the article was furnished OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

by the Finance Division, OMGUS: CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
tu

he assimilation of refugees and

expellees into the German commun-
ity is one of the most formidable
problems facing the German people
today. In towns where housing, food,
public utilities, and employment op-
portunities already are scarce, all must
be shared with the one new person
in every five inhabitants. Exclusive
of the 360,000 Displaced Persons living
in US Zone Assembly Centers more
than three and one-half of the 16 and
one-half million people now in the
zone did not live there during or be-
fore the war.

Any real understanding of the eco-
nomic, social, and political conditions
in Germany should include some
knowledge of this new one-fifth of
the population. Who are they? How
does their presence affect the commun-
ities to which they are assigned?
Finally, what has been done to rid
them of their feeling of “not be-
longing”; what is being done to facili-
tate their integration into community
life economically, socially, and cul-
turally?

Nearly 500,000 Refugees

Military Government defines these
newcomers as refugees and expellees.
Refugees are German nationals who,
by reasons of the war, are either
located in Germany and are tempo-
rarily homeless or distant from their
homes, or are located outside of Ger-
many. It is estimated that there are
approximately 468,000 persons in the
US Zone in this category.

Expellees are ethnic Germans who
are being transferred from areas in

dN

Poland and that part of Germany ad-
ministered by Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Austria, and Hungary and are being
resettled in Germany in accordance
with Article XIII, Potsdam Agreement.
In the US Zone of Germany there are
1,882,000 persons from Czechoslovakia
and Hungary alone. There are an
additional 798,000 Germans from east
of the Oder and Neisse who fled into
the US Zone. This category of persons
is normally received into the British
or Soviet Zones but since they came
into the US Zone prior to organized
movements their transfer to these
Zones has not been possible.

15 Percent of Population

Altogether there are 2,582,000 of
these people, forming over 15 percent
of the total German population in the
US Zone today. If we add 262,000
Volksdeutsche from those countries
not covered by the Potsdam Agree-
ment (Rumania, Yugoslavia, etc.) and
204,000 foreigners living in the US
Zone the total is 3,048,000 or 1814 per-
cent of the over-all population of the
US Zone.

Every war has produced its home-
less refugees, but never before in
modern history has there been such
an extensive organized transfer of
population as that provided for in
Article XIII of the Potsdam Agree-
ment and reflected in the zonal figure
cited.

The, expellee is the responsibility of
the German people. This has been
recognized with the enactment of
expellee laws in each of the three
Laender (Bavaria, Hesse, and Wuert-
temberg-Baden), designed to begin

g: nd Expellees

integration and assimilation belongs
to the German communities in which
these new Germans are finally settled.

It needs no genius to foresee diffi-
culties and barriers to this under-
taking, but one of the most com-
pelling reasons why Germans and new
Germans alike must cooperate in the

Child gets a dusting of DDT powder at a re-
Army Signal Corps photo

fugee camp in Berlin.

Newcomers carry all their personal belong-
ings with them on arriving in Germany to
tind new homes. Photo by Weaver

this task with the least possible fric-
tion and delay. The actual task of

26 MAY 1947 3

--- Page 7 ---
difficult task of assimilation is the
full mutual realization that the stay
of expellees is not temporary but per-
manent. Assimilation alone can end
the friction involved and direct the
concentrated energies of the whole
community toward recovery.

Closely following the announced
transfer of populations decided upon
at Potsdam, German authorities pre-
pared an over-all plan for distribution
of incoming peoples. Working at
highest government levels, over-all
allocation tables were established.
These were based on the total num-
ber expected in the US Zone, recon-
ciled broadly according to the capa-
city of each of the three Laender to
absorb additional people and locally
according to best available estimate of
housing conditions and capacity.

Difficulty of Planning

Such initial planning naturally was
provisional because bomb destruction
had rendered pre-war statistics un-
reliable. Compilation of new data —
population, housing, habitable rooms,
available utilities — was made slow
and difficult by the dearth of ex-
perienced personnel coupled with a
natural reluctance of individual house-
holders and some local officials to
report accurately.

The Bavarian State Secretary for
Refugees, subsequent to the transfers,
describes some aspects of the plan-
ning problem:

“The State Commissioner for Re-
fugees in planning for the influx of

large masses as a result of the Pots-
dam Agreement considered to the
greatest extent possible... unequal
population situation as it existed at
the beginning of 1946. In his aim to
achieve equal and just distribution
the individual and local housing space
situation has been the basis of all
computations. The distribution of the
people into the five Regierungs-
bezirke is being handled by the State
Refugee Commissioner. Once these
people arrive at the Regierungsbezirk
camps, the Regierungscommissioner
conducts further distribution through
the Regierungsbezirk. Great care has
to be taken to consider those areas
that were closed by Military Govern-
ment for military or otherwise im-
portant reasons. Ultimate distribution
into the 166 towns and countyships
(Kreise) finally was conducted by Re-
fugee Commissioners on a country-
ship level.”

Committees Appointed

The Refugee Commissioner heads a
vitally important administrative agen-
cy at each level of civil government,
his office and operations being per-
sonally known to the millions of re-
fugees and expellees. At the top, the
Minister-President of the Land is
responsible for the acceptance and
effective assimilation of the expellees
allocated to his Land. Incident to
the tremendous and sudden influx of
expellees and refugees in the summer
months of 1946 and to the consequent
desperate search for housing space,

Refugees have a meal of soup and bread in the Mess Hall of a refugee
camp in Berlin.

Amy Signal Corps photo

committees were appointed at all
governing levels. They assisted the
Refugee officers and settled special
problems which arose, broadening the
base of responsible support for the
program. Special consultants and
statisticians were appointed to check
the implementation of the program
and the census data on which it was
based. On the local level, the Mayor's
office was expected to provide space
and assign the actual dwellings
where expellees would be housed.
On the cooperation, effectiveness, and
personality of these officials depend-
ed much of the initial success of
the expellee assimilation program.

To see the effect of this program
on German economic and social life
we might take a look at the impact
of the program on one actual com-
munity.

Mittelstadt (the fictitious name of
at town in the US Zone) had a popu-
lation of 25,352 persons in September
1939, Substantially all were native
Germans. Mittelstadt was fortunate —
thus not typical — in that only one
percent of its dwellings were destroy-
ed during the war, but since 1944
the town's population has increased
to 38,000 of whom only 25,463, or two-
thirds, are native Germans. From
Polish-occupied areas east of the Oder
Hungary. In addition Mittelstadt has
Germans from Czechoslovakia and
Neisse, 3,146 persons have come
into the town. There are 6,743 ethnic
added to its population 922 refugees
from other parts of Germany, 787
foreigners (displaced persons living
outside United Nations Assembly
Centers) and, in two camps in the
environs, 757 displaced persons.

Persons per Room Doubled

In 1939 there were approximately
4,800 dwelling places, including apart-
ments, containing 24,000 rooms of all
types. Today there is almost the same
number of houses only a few of which
have been partially destroyed and,
according to the December 1946 sur-
vey, 23,886 habitable rooms. In 1939
the town had an average of 0.96 per-
sons per habitable room; in 1947 the
average is 1.6 persons per room. The
average 1.6 persons per “habitable
room" includes space in kitchens

(Contnued to page 16)

26 MAY 1947

--- Page 8 ---
a2 of
ame yell

The failure of newly-arrived
refugees and expellees to take part
in all aspects of the German com-
munity to which they have been
assigned could lead to the develop-
ment of a sizeable minority group,
self-conscious and unhappy, pursuing
special aims, and at the mercy of
dissident elements of all kinds. With
one-fifth of the total population of
the US Zone made up of these new-
comers, success{ul assimilation is vital
to the future welfare of German
towns and villages.

One of these persons, an expellee
who came from Czechoslovakia with
her sister and nephew in midsummer
of last year to live in the US Zone
(in the town fictitiously called
Mittelstadt), gives a brief account of
her experiences. This is her own story
of her arrival in Germany, her im-
pressions and something of her “as-
similation". Some of her experiences
are far from typical, but the reader
can daw his own conclusions.

There were 1,200 people on the
expellee train formed in Prague.
My sister and nephew, a_ twelve-
year-old boy, and I made the trip to
Augsburg, about 200 miles, in a box
car with 27 other people and all our
baggage. Before we left Prague a
number was painted on each wagon
—there were forty-one wagons—and
each persons was given a lapel tag
on which his name and car number
were written. Most of the people were
farmers, seven in our car were men,
one man was 101 years old. The Car
Leader (Wagenfithrer), a former glass
manufacturer, carried a nominal roll
and identification papers for all of us.

26 MAY 1947

Wednesday morning we arrived at
the Czech-German border town of
Domazlice. The experiences of the
past few weeks made many of the
expellees glad to be leaving Czecho-
slovakia behind. Inge and I, both over
50, were quite unhappy, exhausted,
lost, and homesick; we had had to
leave behind our sick mother and
another sister whom we might never
see again.

At Domazlice we were again told
that we could have only 70 kg of
baggage each. We had brought some
of mother's things and had hoped to
slip through but began to repack so
that we would leave only the least
valuable things. At Prague one of the
men in the train had advised us to
leave excess baggage with a forward-
ing agency. We decided to keep it
with us and, as it turned out later,
the excess weight was never ques-
tioned.

At Domazlice we were not allow-
ed to leave the car and most of us
took the opportunity to get some
undisturbed sleep. Soon a Czech offi-
cer appeared at the door, gave our
Car Leader a canister of disinfactant
which, with the door closed, he
sprayed around inside the crowded
car.

A minute later the Car Leader jump-
ed down to salute an American
army officer who came along the
train. There was only one American,
a Captain, accompanied by several
Czechs. For some reason the Amer-
ican decided he would inspect our
‘wagon more closely than he had pre-
vious cars. We were all ordered out.
When we had clambered down and

5

fallen into a ragged line of blinking,
shuffling humanity, the American
vaulted into the car and using a
torch, looked around inside. In two
minutes he seemed content and was
back outside speaking to the Car
Leader. “How many people there?”
The question was translated by the
Czech customs man. “Twenty-seven,”
was the reply.

“Does all this baggage belong to
the people in this car?” “Yes, Sir, I
think so.”

“Ask the people if any of them
have anything in any of the other
cars.” Nobody replied. “How old are
you?” he asked the old man.

“One hundred and one”, said the
old man squinting. The captain was
startled and smiled.

“Is your baggage here in this car
with you?”

“Part of it.”

“Where is the rest?’

“T hope it is in the next car—there”
said the old man waving his hand
vaguely up the train. “My daughter
is in the next car.”

The captain said “Okay,” and turn-
ed to the group, speaking in Ger-
man: “Are all of you accompanied
by your immediate families?”

An awkward silence followed this
question. Most of us had members
of our families in Czechoslovakia, but
it was rumored among us_ that
complaints of being separated from
families would cause us to be put
off the train and probably into a
Czech jail. No one said anything. The
American shrugged his shoulders and
moved on to the next car.

Two hours later at 11 o'clock we
moved across the frontier to Furth
im Wald, Germany. It was raining.
The Bavarian Red Cross took over in
Furth; we were unloaded and led by
a Red Cross girl into the station
where we were “dusted”, weighed,
checked off, given a kind of identity
card, then fed a very simple but hot
meal. In spite of the commotion,
things seemed well organized. The
lapel cards we wore were useful in
keeping groups together and mini-
mized confusion.

At three that afternoon we climbed
back onto the train the Car Leader
helping our centenarian and women
into the car; another locomotive pull-
ed us slowly out of the station. We

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
learned that the entire train was
going to the Regierungsbezirk recep-
tion camp at Augsburg.

Because of delays it was nearly
9 o'clock the following morning when
we were unloaded, a car at a time,
into large, ramshackle old trucks,
and taken to camp. The weather
cleared and suddenly the whole drab
scene was bathed in warm sunshine,
immensely improving our spirits. The
baggage followed separately and was
deposited by car numbers in a locked
storeroom.

The camp at Augsburg was a large
former textile factory which had
been converted into a temporary
barracks for about 6,000 expellees.
Nearly a thousand people were there
when we arrived. It was a badlam.
My sister and I found ourselves, with
other women, sleeping on the second
floor of the factory in a double-
decker bunk consisting merely of
board shelves. There was a sack of
straw on each, but we preferred to
make our own beds out of coats and
blankets. The place was dank and
smelly, with a faint odor of disinfectant,

After almost a week at Augsburg
during which‘ time we ate fairly
well and slept badly, our “processing”
was completed. With two hundred
others, our family was sent on to a
Kreis Resettlement and Distribution
Center near Mittelstadt.

The trip by train was short, and
we arrived four hours later at the
Kreis camp, a former prisoners’ bar-
tacks, 15 miles from Mittelstadt. It
was clean but inadequately furnished.
However, the following day with
35 others we were put into two trucks
and dropped off, bag and baggage,
at Mittelstadt. The local Refugee
Commissioner met us and conducted
us to a camp located in an old, par-
tially-destroyed tavern.

We later came to know the Re-
fugee Commissioner well as my sister
went to work for him and I served
on the Refugee Advisory Council.
At the time he was nervous, seemed
conscientious and sadly over-bur-
dened. He explained that, for the pres-
ent we would have to stay two or
three nights at the tavern, but that in
a few days the Burgomaster would
assign us to homes. Meanwhile some
food was provided for our immediate
needs.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Two days later, we were visited
by the Burgomaster who had already
received a nominal roll and various
other papers about us from the “pro-
sessing” center at Augsburg.

My sister, the boy and I were sent
to the home of a Stadtschreiber (town
clerk) whom, I later learned, had bit-
terly resisted all efforts to place
anyone in his home. He had accepted
us only because he had to take
someone and he had heard we would
probably be as little objectionable as
any one else. Also, a much larger
shipment of expellees was due in a
week and the burgomaster had told
him any attempt at selection would
be difficult later on.

Our first days in Mittelstadt were
not very encouraging. Although
the house contained seven rooms and
only four persons—the clerk, his
wife, mother, and ten-year old son—
we three were crowded into one
room from which the furniture had
been entirely cleared. We were ex-
pected to get our meals out or to
cook them in a bicycle shed in the
back yard. The first two nights we
slept on the floor. On the third day,
our host provided a large double bed
and a straight-back chair. We were
permitted to use the bathroom dur-
ing the afternoon only. Neither my
sister nor I could enter the kitchen.
A week after our arrival we visited
the Refugee Commissioner who said
that he felt we would eventually get
on better if he did not interfere. He
did undertake to provide a bed for
Gerhard, and there was great sur-
prise when it arrived the next day.

We also learned there what had
happened to our colleagues in the
transport.

Of the seven families that came
with us to Mittelstadt all but one had
now been assigned to homes, although
not always together in the same
house. Of the eight men in our trans-
port, two had immediately found
work with a contracting firm which
was reconstructing the local school
house. One other, a shoemaker from
Freudenthal, had the foresight to
bring a considerable quantity of
leather in his baggage, and was al-
ready hard at work at his old trade.
Four men had not yet found work.
The principle difficulty was that they
were glass workers and there was

6

no glass industry in the town. They
had refused—at least, two of them
had refused—other work and we
heard that they were endeavoring to
arrange to move to , where
some expellees were employed in a
glass factory, working with tools that
they had brought from the home-
lands. Apart from my sister and myself
only three other women were seek-
ing work, none of them was yet able
to find a place.

Two.weeks later, my sister was
offered a job in the Commissioners’
Mittelstadt office. Mittelstadt was the
headquarters for the entire Kreis and
there was a tremendous lot of work
to be done. The job meant not only
an occupation but a chance to help
out other expellees like ourselves.
Inge took it. I had already accepted
a nursing post in the hospital.

Titles Redesignated

The proper titles of the offices for
public relations and for information
and education in the Headquarters of
the European Command have been
redesignated by EUCOM General
Orders No. 36 of 6 May 1947. By terms
of the General Orders, the Public
Relations Division, Hq EUCOM, be-
came the Public Information Division,
and its director redesignated Chief
of Information. Likewise, the Infor-
mation and Education Division, Hq
EUCOM, became the Troop Infor-
mation and Education Division, and
its chief, redesignated Chief of Troop
Information and Education.

Personnel Changes

Spencer Phenix has been appointed
chief of the Trade and Commerce
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS,
succeeding Robert Trier, who has re-
turned to the United States. Mr. Phenix
is principally concerned with imple-
mentation of the export program which
has as its objective the sale of Ger-
man manufactures abroad as a means
of paying for food and other vital
imports.

Col. Otis McCormick has been
named Chief of Troop Information and
Education, EUCOM, replacing Col.
Edward J. F. Glavin.

26 MAY 1947

--- Page 10 ---
aU TT RePPPOwN

very three to four months repre-
ee ctivcs of France, Britain, and
the United States conduct a nutrition
inspection tour through western Ger-
many to report to their respective
zonal governments. The Chiefs of Pub-
lic Health in the three zones, con-
sultants, Food and Agriculture re-
presentatives, and three nutrition spe-
cialists brought from France, Britain,
and the United States solely for the
purpose of making the survey—
all form a committee to make a
thorough check and pool their find-
ings on the current state of nutrition
and health.

The seventh of these Combined Nu-
trition Comittee tours took place from
12 through 24 April. Officials were
notified in advance in the American
Zone cities of Munich, Stuttgart, and
Frankfurt as to when the Committee
would arrive. What the specialists
saw and did in Munich is typical of
how the survey is conducted.

In the morning, the Committee met
in conference with Munich's Senior
Public Health Officer, MG's Food and
Agriculture representative, MG's Pu-

blic Welfare representative, and a
German physician in charge of local
nutrition survey teams.

After absorbing facts and figures at
the meeting, the Committee went into
the town to glean information for
themselves. They visited two schools—
one representing a more favored and
the other a less favored element of
the city population. Entire classes in
the age groups 6 to 9, 10 to 14, and 15
to 19 were examined. Prepared in
advance for each child was a card
indicating his age, height, and weight
at the last monthley check.

Surveys Made Continuously
Nutrition surveys are being conduct-
ed continously in the large cities of
the US Zone. Such a local survey
was going on when the Combined
Committee made its study. Babies and
pre-school children accompanied by
their mothers and men and women
over 60 years were selected at random
from the population and asked to
report for examinations. Industry and
white-collar workers also appeared.
Each person was weighed and

measured and given a doctor's exa-
mination. Every other person report-
globin and blood serum protein con-
ing was given a blood test for haemo-
tent. One out of ten persons was
interviewed and asked whether he
received the complete ration alloca-
tion, what he had eaten for the last
six meals, and how much.

The visiting Committee observed
these surveys and collected facts.
Finally, at the end of the day, the
Committee again met with the same
local government representatives who
had talked with them at the morning
conference and final information was
exchanged. Thus the Committee
moved through the three zones.

Specifically, the Committee recom-
mends that the present ration scales
be maintained and supplied in full
and eventually increased when food
is available; that school meals be pro-
vided as widely as possible, particu-
larly for primary school children; that
provision be made for adolescents in
industry and the aged who were
found to be suffering particularly se-
vere nutritional hardship; that nutri-
tion surveys and weighing programs
be continued in all zones provided
that, and only provided that, they be
supervised by competent Allied
personnel when conducted by Ge1-
mans; and that another combined
survey be made in September.

The main conclusions of the Com-
mittee as issued in their joint report
follow:

For a great part of the urban popu-
lation, the state of nutrition, while
remaining unsatisfactory, has been

(left) School children in a large town in an agricultural area line up for the
Nutrition Committee. (center) German doctor examines a baby as Inspector
General G. Coulon and Dr. Hugues Gounelle, French members, watch. (tight)
Dr. Gounelle examines school children. (Photos by Dr. C. E. Brown, OMGUS)

--- Page 11 ---
maintained at the level reported last
December. There has been some worse-
ning in certain groups under the
rigors of winter, and some signs por-
tending a more serious situation are
apparing. As previously, the poorest
nutrition is found in children between
6 and 14 years of age, in people
60 years and over and among normal
consumers generally.

Adult Weights Stable

Underweight, especially severe in
the elderly, persists. However, weights
of the adult population appear rather
stable compared with those reported
at the last meeting of the Committee,
both slight increases and slight de-
creases being reported. A failure to
gain weight in children, equally or
more significant than losses in adults,
is found in some groups. In the
French Zone there were indications
that body weights of children 7 to
14 years of age were, on the whole,
below those found in the American
and British Zones.

A deficiency of calories and pro-
tein, manifested by subnormal body
weights remains the principal factor
in the undernutrition, but certain
vitamin deficiencies appear to be
somewhat more frequent than before.
Hunger edema is still to be found in
some groups.

In the first report of this Committee
issued in August 1945 and again in
the sixth report in December 1946, the
nutritional value of the diets needed
to supply the minimum requirements
for the growth of children, the health
of the population and for a reasonable
output of effective work were given.
These minimum standards were ex-
pressed in detail in terms of protein,
calcium, iron, vitamin A, thiamine,
riboflavin, niacin, absorbic acid and
vitamin D and in terms of calories.
The overall shortage of food, rather
than the scarcity of a single nutrient
has, however, focused attention pri-
marily on the supply of calories.

Nutrients Insufficient

The amounts of nutrients provided
by the rations which are issued in all
three Zones of Germany which have
been surveyed are of themselves in-
sufficient to meet the nutritional re-
quirements of the different types of
individuals of which the community
is composed. A large proportion of

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the population, however, is known to
obtain food additional to the rations.
In attempting to assess the state of
nutrition, it is therefore important to
appreciate that the ration commonly
represents a part only of the total
diet.

Since the previous survey of the
Committee in December, there has
been a fall in the rations available
for issue in the French Zone. Until
the beginning of December an average
of 1425 calories was issued in the
provinces of Baden, Palatinate, Wuert-
temberg, and Rhenanie; however, for
the three months of January to March
1947 the actual issue in the town of
Trier in Rhenanie was 1284 calories;
in Freiburg in Baden the ration was
1166 calories, while in Ludwigshafen
in the Palatinate only 994 calories
were available.

The official ration for normal con-
sumers in the US Zone is designed to
provide 1,550 calories daily and at
the time of the Committee's previous
tour was, with quite minor local ex-
ceptions, fully honored. In March,
however, in the three US-occupied
provinces of Hesse, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, and Bavaria only approxima-
tely 1300 calories were in fact issued.

Supplies Less in March

The Ruhr lies within the province
of North Rhine-Westphalia. In No-
vember the rations issued to the nor-
mal consumer provided, with some
local fluctuations, approximately 1400
calories. This figure was substantially
maintained until March when, for the
four weeks of that month, the effec-
tive issue dropped to approximately
1100 calories. In Hamburg and in
Hanover in Niedersachsen the rations
available to the normal consumers
have remained unchanged since No-
vember at a level approximately 1400
calories.

It is thus clearly apparent that so
far as the rations are concerned there
has since the last tour of the Com-
mittee been a serious drop in supplies
in all three zones.

The figures which have been given
above concern the basic adult ration
and do not take into account the spe-
cial rations and provisions which are
made for children, workers and others
which are discussed later. Since,
however, approximately 45 percent of

8

the population of large towns receive

only the basic ration, its level is an
important index of the overall posi-
tion. The Committee has recommend-
ed that a minimum ration for normal
consumers of 1550 calories is desir-
able. When this amount is avail-
able, experience has shown that a
reasonably satisfactory st#te of nu-

trition, assuming there is a consump- |

tion of something approximating to
2000 calories, can be achieved. To-
day it is increasingly clear that large
supplies of food are obtained by the
population from unofficial sources,
Apart from parcels from abroad, there
is a substantial circulation of food by
post from the rural districts of Ger-
many. In all three zones visited, the
Committee observed people traveling
by train carrying heavy bags of food
and in none of the towns visited was
difficulty encountered in obtaining
black market price quotations,

Shortage of Bread Grains

It is difficult to assess the magni-
tude of the nutritional supplement
derived from non-rationed food. The
amounts obtained must very widely
depending on the circumstances of in-
dividual families. Clearly, however
it is a highly undesirable and danger-
ous factor affecting the nutritional
state of the population that certain
people should be able to obtain food
because of their privileged position
while those less fortunate can legally
obtain only a ration quite insuffic-
ient for subsistence.

The main reason for the deficien-
cies in the rations has been ashortage
of bread grains, which has been
principally responsible for the fall in
calorie levels. In certain areas,
notably in the north, large propor-
tions of corn (maize) have been used
as a constituent of the bread. While
this has reduced its acceptability to
the German population, the Committee
does not feel that this procedure will
have any significant effect on nutri-
tion provided the other constituents
of the diet are made available. In
view of the precarious state of many
supplies, it would, however, be de-
sirable, if possible, to distribute corn
throughout a wide area so that the
proportion in the diet of any single
group should not become excessive.

(Continued to page 16)

26 MAY 1947

--- Page 12 ---
SERVICES OFFERED VISITING BUYERS

otential buyers requiring food,
Prrccomodations, and transport fa-
cilities from the occupation authori-
ties will be admitted to the combined
US/UK Zones of Germany for periods
not normally exceeding 14 days, ac-
cording ,to an announcement by the
Economics Divisions of the US and
British Military Governments. Details
of the plan cited in the joint announ-
cement follow.

As accomodations are limited, the
Joint Export/Import Agency will allot
to the various countries the quota of
visitors it can accept monthly from
each, Quotas will not be increased by
reason of visitors remaining less than
14 days in the combined zones, The
quota allotted to each country will be
liable to alteration in subsequent
months at the discretion of the JEIA.

In each country receiving a quota
the national ministry which deals
with foreign trade, or alternatively
one single properly authorized agency,
will submit to the responsible Military
Permit Office (MPO) a list of its
nationals to fill the number of vacan-
cies on the quota. Such sponsorship
by the competent national ministry/
agency will be taken as an guarantee
of the bona fides of the buyers and
will be regarded as an indication that
an import license will normally be
granted if a contract is concluded and
if such a licence is necessary.

MPO’'s, subject to their overall in-
structions, will issue Military Entry
Permits (MEP) to the businessmen in-
cluded in the list of sponsored appli-
cants. Potential buyers wishing to
visit the combined zones must apply
to their competent national ministry/
agency. MPO's will refer any such
applicants to the correct authorities.

It is not essential that correctly
sponsored applicants apply for their
documents to the MPO controlling
their country’s quota. If it is more
convenient, they may apply to
another MPO; they must, however,
be able to satisfy the latter that-they
are included in their country's list
of sponsored applicants. ~

When granting the MEP, which will
be valid for both zones, MPO's will
also stamp the applicant's passport
to show that he is entitled to facilities

26 MAY 1947

-are available.

under the scheme in the US Zone.
Visitors entering the British Zone di-
rect will be instructed by MPO's at
-which Travel Bureau they must call
to collect the Letter of Recognition,
which visitors require in order to
obtain facilities in the British Zone
under this scheme and which also
takes the place of the British Zone
Authority normally required by visi-
tors to the British Zone. MPO's will
also give visitors pamphlet guides
containing all available information
about facilities in both zones. Visitors
traveling from one zone to the other
should check through the local visi-
tors/travel bureau that accomodations
When making this
check, visitors traveling from the US
to the British Zone will be instructed
at which British travel bureau to call
for their Letter of Recognition.

For the purpose of this scheme, the
issue of MEP’s against the quota of
a country where there is no MPO
willbe authorized by a MPO disignat-
ed for the purpose. The locations and
addresses of the MPO’s and the coun-
tries covered by each are as follows:

London (Foreign Office [German
Section] 20 Princes Gardens, S. W. 7.)
for United Kingdom, colonies and
British overseas possessions; Canada,
Australia, South Africa, New Zealand,
India, Burma, Eire, Newfoundland,
and Southern Rhodesia.

Washington (Military Permit Se-
cretary, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Wash-
ington 25, D.C.) for United States
and Mexico.

Paris (24 Rue Greusse, Paris 16) for
France, Part of US quota, Portugal,
Brazil, Argentine, Chile, Venezuela,
Peru, and Uruguay.

Hague (16 Carel van Bylandtlaan)
for the Netherlands.

Brussels (16 Rue du Cornet) for
Belgium and Luxembourg.

Stockholm (Houslagaregatan 2) for
Sweden and Finland.

Oslo (Rooms 218—220 Radhus-
gatan 8) for Norway.

Copenhagen (c/o British Military
Mission to Denmark, BAOR) for Den-
mark,

Bern (14Helvetiastrasse) for Switzer-
land.

Warsaw (c/o US Military Attache,
American Embassy) for Poland.

Prague (c/o US Military Attache,
Jungmannove 30, Prague 2) for
Czechoslovakia.

Vienna (Exit and Entires Branch,
Allied Commission for Austria [BE],
or Asst. Chief of Staff G-2, USFA,
APO 777, US Army) for Austria.

Rome - (c/o US Military Attache,
American Embassy) for Italy, Greece,
Turkey, and Egypt.

Budapest (Allied Control Commis-
sion Hungary [US Element], c/o Pouch
Room, OPA, OMGUS, APO 742, US
Army, or British Representative, Al-
lied Control Commission Hungary
[BE]) for Hungary, Rumania, and
Bulgaria.

Belgrade (c/o British Military At-
tache, British Embassy, or c/o US
Military Attache, American Legation)
for Yugoslavia.

Visitors will pay for accomodations
food, transport, and other services in
British Armed Forces Special Vou-
chers (BAFSV) / Military Payment
Certificates (MPC). BAFSV will be
obtained in Germany against a spe-
cial sterling letter of credit obtain-
able from the Foreign Office (Ger-
man Section) in London, or from the
British MPO, or, in countries where
there is no British MPO, the principal
British consular representative, or
against American Express dollar tra-
velers’ cheques of MPC. MPC will be
obtained in the US Zone in exchange
for a dollar instrument. Intending
visitors to both zones must arrive
provided with facilities for obtaining
both BAFSV and MPC.

Local transport will be provided in
cars. Transport between centers will
by car, rail, or possibly air. Facilities
will be provided for visitors arriving
in their own cars to obtain gasoline
and oil. Accomodations and food will
be provided in hotels run, for the
time being at any rate, by the occu-
pation authorities.

Owing to the shortage of acco-
modations, it will only be possible to
extend the length of stay beyond 14
days in most exceptional circumstan-
ces and if accomodations happen to
be available.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
train carrying a three million-dol-

lar cargo made a special trip last
month from Frankfurt/Main to Buda-
pest. This was a restitution journey,
but it was different from the hundreds
of other such projects carried out by
Military Government. Instead of paint-
ings, treasured books, or sculpture
being returned to rightful owners,
this time the 96-ton cargo was 6,783
silver bars and 38 boxes of silver
scrap—enough silver to improve the
economic condition of a whole nation.

Last August the 35 million-dollar
Hungarian gold reserve was returned
to that government. This year’s silver
importation is expected to act as a
“shot in the arm” to Hungary’s ser-
jous financial and economix diffi-
culties.

Originally the silver was held in
Hungary as part of the reserve of the
Hungarian Government. In December
1944, at Veszpren, the Nazi puppet
government which had seized control
of Hungary arranged for the transfer
of the silver from the Ministry of Fi-
nance to the Hungarian National Bank

for safekeeping. However, through
arrangements made between German
Reichsbank Directors Frommknecht
and Schaeffler, who were acting as
supervisors to the Ministry of Finance,
Hungary, custody of the silver was
returned to the Minister of Finance
and the silver sent to Germany.

The silver was loaded on seven
freight cars and sent through Vienna
to Magdeburg. Dr. Meszaros, the Hun-
garian Finance Minister, was in charge
of the transport. Because of severe

air raids suffered at Magdeburg, the
Magdeburg Reichsbank did not have
the personnel and physical means of
making a complete inventory of the
shipment, but merely gave a receipt
for the number of bars and boxes.

American 9th Army Forces found
the silver in Magdeburg on 28 April
1945 and assumed the custody of it,
sending it to Frankfurt to the Foreign
Exchange Depository, a Field Branch
of the Finance Division, OMGUS.

(left) Rows of silver in Foreign Exchange Depository, Frankfurt, being inspected
before removal to Budapest. (right) Col. William G. Brey, Chief of the Depo-
sitory, helping to transfer the silver to another car during the trip to Hungary.
(Army Signal Corps photos) :

--- Page 14 ---
This year, in the middle of March,
a joint directive from the State and
‘War Departments ordered that the sil-
ver be restituted immediately to Hun-
gary. The Finance Division of OM-
GUS began the formulation of plans
to accomplish this task. It was de-
cided that the Foreign Exchange De-
pository would coordinate all activi-
ties involved in the restitution, dealing
with the Hungarian Mission, OMGUS
Headquarters in Berlin, Restitution
Control Branch in Hoechst, American
Representation in Hungary, and
EUCOM officials.

Actual work began in the Foreign
Exchange Depository with an inspec-
tion of the vaults by personnel of the
Foreign Exchange Depository to pre-
pare a plan of operation. Officials
needed full lists by number of silver-
bar location to make arrangements for
the train and for security.

Dr. Nyaradi, Hungarian Finance
Minister, and Dr. Alexander Hahn,
Chief of the Hungarian Restitution
Mission, assisted in the restitution
arrangements, Dr. Nyaradi signed
forms in blank, the details to be filled
in on the delivery day with the con-
currence of Hungarian restitution offi-
cials.

Since some of the bars had no
weights stamped upon them it was
necessary to weigh them so that the
records would be complete and detail-
ed. Members of the Foreign Exchange
Depository and representatives of the

26 MAY 1947

Dr. Nicholas Nyaradi, Minister of Finance for Hungary, signs the document
-for the restitution of the Hungarian silver. Watching him are Colonel Brey
and Col. Walter Kluss, Chief of the Restitution Contro] Branch. (Army Signal
Corps photo)

Hungarian Restitution Mission began
a joint inventory of the bars, which
were then placed in a special com-
partment reserved for the Hungarian
silver shipment.

To coordinate the work of all agen-
cies involved, a conference was held
by Col. William G. Brey, Chief of the
Foreign Exchange Depository, to dis-
cuss the number of baggage cars need-
ed, the security angle, the question of
publicity, the number of type of
personnel to accompany the ship-
ment, and the question of clearance.
Last year's restitution shipment of
30 tons of gold to Hungary was stud-
ied as a pertinent example.

Vault operations including the
checking of the silver bullion against
the prepared listings were finally
completed. Then a final conference
on transit problems and arrangements
was held at the Foreign Exchange De-
pository. It was attended by represen-
tatives of all agencies concerned with
the restitution.

Two sets of joint inventary sched-
ules were initialed by representa-
tives of the Foreign Exchange Depos-
itory and Hungarian Restitution Mis-
sion and when final instructions came
from Washington the shipment date
was set for 21 April. EUCOM accept-
ed responsibility for clearing the ship-
ment and USFA obtained Soviet offi-
cers to accompany the train from the
Austrian border to Budapest.

On the shipment date the silver

11

was transferred from the vaults of
the Foreign Exchange Depository to
waiting vehicles which carried it to
the train at the main railroad station
in Frankfurt. Photographs and motion
pictures were taken of various phases
of the movement. After 17 truckloads
of silver had been put aboard the
train departed on schedule.

En route east of Aschaffenburg, one
of the silver cars developed a hot
box. But two additional baggage cars
had been provided for such an emerg-
ency, and the silver was quickly
transferred by passenger and guard
personnel. When the train crossed
into the Soviet Zone at the Inn river
in Austria, four Russian escort offi-
cers, as previously arranged, joined
the group.

The train was _ enthusiastically
greeted upon its arrival in Budapest.
An official reception committee was
on hand and huge crowds filled the
station.

The members of the train were
cordially welcomed and entertained
during their stay in Budapest. Acti-
vities included an official dinner gi-
ven by the Hungarian Government
for all members of the train personnel
and a reception by the Prime Minister
for members of the press.

Thus ended a successful mission
which should do much to further im-
plement the aid to Hungary provided
by the gold reserve restitution last
August.

WESKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
STAGNANT

INFLATION

arter in consumer goods, food-
Boas. and raw materials, compen-
sation trade among the business
firms, and common black market
dealings between consumers and in-
termediaries have brought about a
state of “stagnant inflation” in Ger-
many, according to a special report
in the “Trade and Commerce” annex
to the latest monthly report by the
Military Governor. Dealing with
“The Role of Prices under Present
Conditions in Germany,” the special
report says that instead of the usual
case, where rapidly rising prices
destroy the value of money, in Ger-
many today “a money without value
has tended to destroy the function
of prices.”

Although enforcement of price and
other controls has helped to prevent
inflation, barter and compensation
trading has spread; this has even
taken the edge off some price pres-
sures, Thus, “there is little opportun-
ity to influence the level or direction
of production by increases of legal
prices,” the report states, adding,
“Broad sections of the economy do
not react to price stimulation. The
significance of price adjustments is
at present largely limited to the
improvement of the liquidity or the
accounting situation of business firms,
especially in the basic industries.”

Past High Point

Referring to the barter or black
market sale of personal possessions—
one of the chief commercial factors
in post-defeat Germany—the report
says this form of trading “has prob-
ably already passed its high point
since many families have exhausted
their saleable possessions.” Partici-
pation in the free-for-all of barter
and black market results in channels
of supply of goods being threatened,
in shortages and ration breakdown,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the report continues. The full text
of the special report follows:

The fundamentally disturbed state
of the German economy has not
appeared in the form of active price
inflation. The level of legal prices
continues to apply for most trans-
actions. The legal Cost of Living In-
dex exceeds the level of the fall of
1945 by only 10 to 15 percent. Black-
market prices, while towering high
above legal prices, have failed to
show any cumulative rise. Indications
are that black market activity and
compensation trading (sales tied to
purchase) have assumed increasing
significance during the last year,
but this development has not primar-
ily expressed itself in larger money
expenditures and receipts in indi-
vidual transactions.

Money Loses Importance

Germany's inflation today is a
stagnant inflation. Instead of rapidly
rising prices destroying the value of
money, a money without value has
tended to destroy the function of
prices. To an increasing degree the
Reichsmark prices of goods have
become subsidiary and formal ap-
pendages of purchase and sale trans-
actions or have even been eliminated
entirely from transactions in favor
of a variety of direct barter ratios
between goods, especially between
cigarettes and other goods.

While the nature of black-market
and barter business makes quanti-
tative measurement impossible, direct
observations of conditions in in-
dustry and trade indicate that the
population is growing more accustom-
ed to illicit trading and bartering.
Factory managers point out that
materials, parts, and even labor have
increasingly to be bought by alloting
some usable goods or services,
mostly out of their own production,

12

to the suppliers and workers. To.
some extent, such allotments have
been approved by the Land Economic
Offices, particularly in connection
with interzonal trading. The final
exhaustion of such supplies of raw
materials as were on hand at the
end of the war has stimulated such
reciprocal trading.

Legal Prices Charged

In compensatory trading between
business firms the prices paid for
supplies or charged for the goods or
services are usually the legal prices,
but the absolute level of these prices
matters little in the transactions,
What matters primarily is the type
and quantity of goods made available
and only secondarily the price re-
lation of these goods. That is, what
is important, the rate at which a
shipment of hand tools can be charged
off against a shipment of tires, af’ bag
of cement against a sack of potatoes,
an allotment of new books against
cigars to be provided to the Printer's
workers. That goods bartered in this
fashion are priced at all is due to the
elementary requirements of account-
ing to stockholders and the tax
authorities, which business firms
cannot escape. The use of legal prices
is convenient, as it makes the buisness
acceptable to price-control authorities
and reduces the need for fraudulent
tax declarations. Moreover, bargain-
ing in this type of trade can well be
done at constant prices by reducing
or increasing the quantity or the
variety of the scarce goods offered
to the other party.

Similarly, farmers circumvent price
and marketing controls and divert
breadgrains and potatoes to feeding
livestock and retain a variety of farm
products to barter with city people
in exchange for farm supplies, equip-
ment, and services. The amount of
food lost to controlled distribution
through such channels is not known
with any precision, but it is sub-
stantial—perhaps 20 percent of the
total indigenous food production. For
example, analysis of livestock reports
from 3 December 1946 to 3 March
1947 shows a disappearance of about
450,000 hogs over and above those
accounted for by legal slaughter.
This compares with the total reported
slaughter for the same period of

26 MAY 1947

--- Page 16 ---
812,000 hogs. It is believed, however,
that this proportion of illicit market-
ing of hogs to total marketing is much
larger than is characteristic of other
foods. Usually the farmers do not
accept money but insist on barter in
these transactions.

Supplement Incomes

The tendency among the general
consumers to supplement their scanty
legal incomes and rations by the
proceeds of blackmarket sales or
barter of jewelry, cameras, musical
instruments, clothing and furniture
has been one of the chief commercial
factors in postwar Germany. It has
been officially recognized, and con-
trolled, in licensed Barter Shops or
Barter Syndicates. But this form of
trading has probably already passed
its high point, as many families have
exhausted their saleable possessions
in two years of bartering.

It appears that black market prices
play a relatively greater role in the
illicit dealings between consumers
and intermediaries than in dealings
between larger business firms or be-
tween city people and peasants. The
vast class of intermediaries that has
sprung up—unemployed youths, re-
turning prisoners of war, uprooted
German migrants, and some displaced
persons—transacts a large proportion
of the black-market business proper
done at black market prices.

Briefly, to summarize, the economic
function and significance of legal
prices has been undermined by three
development: (1) compensation trade
done at legal prices, chiefly among
larger business firms, (2) barter with-
out intervention of money and prices,
chiefly between peasants and the rest
of the population, and (3) trade at
black market prices, chiefly between
consumers and intermediaries, and
among the intermediaries,

Causes Inequities

As is to be expected, the degene-
tation of the role of prices and of
normal trade practices causes ‘con-
siderable tensions and inequities in
the economy. Some branches of buSi-
ness and some sections of the popu-
lation are unable to participate in the
free-for-all of barter and _ black
market. As a result, their channels
of supply of goods are threatened,

26 MAY 1947

and their attention is directed toward
obtaining improvement of their legal
price and income situation. The basic
industries and the industrial working
class are outstanding examples.

In the case of the basic industries,
the relatively standard character of
their products and the limited number
of producing firms facilitate the ad-
ministration of price control, The
products of the basic mining, metall-
urgical, heavy engineering, and
chemical industries do not have the
direct usefulness or easy divisibility
into small units that make the pro-
ducts of most lighter manufacturing
industries easily barterable. Fertilizer,
‘horse shoes, and small iron ware may
be used to obtain parts and materials

from some customers, but steel
shapes, sulphuric acid, and loco-
motives are not suited for distri-

bution to workers or to farmers.
Industries making such primary pro-
ducers’ goods are thus at a relative
disadvantage in attracting and hold-
ing labor and in making compensation
deals with a broad variety of
customers. Moreover, because of their
key importance to the economy, and
owing to the need of quadripartite
agreement for any changes, the prices
of basic commodities have been held
more rigidly than for many other
items. As a result, there has been
built up an accumulation of emphatic
requests for price relief for basic
industrial products.

ACA Postpones Action

Such requests have been made for
coal, steel, sulphuric acid, and other
basic commodities. The Allied Con-
trol Authority has decided to post-
pone action on the coal price, thus
extending the need for subsidies to
the Ruhr coal mines, where, in the
form of guaranteed credits, subsidies
have reached a total of RM 913 mil-
lion between the beginning of occu-
pation and February 1947. In the case
of sulphuric acid and steel, studies
have been made that point to signi-
ficant increases in the cost of pro-
duction. The cost of making sulphuric
acid rose as a result of the price
increase of over 75 percent granted
for domestic pyrites mining in De-
cember 1946. The cost of steel pro-
duction has risen considerably above
the legal price as a result of higher
material and processing costs.

13

Substantial price increases for these
commodities would have widespread
repercussions, and, especially in the
case of coal and steel, would lead
to demands for higher prices of a
multitude of secondary goods and
services. Pending monetary reform
and resolution of such fundamental
problems as importation or non-
importation of foreign ores and
determination of plant capacity re-
maining in Germany, such requests
for price increases are necessarily
wighed carefully against alternative
measures of credit and subsidization.

Price-Stop Adopted

The US Zone—and since bizonal
amalgamation the combined area—
follows a very conservative policy
in adapting the German “price-stop”
(or price stabilization) to postwar
requirements. About 400 individual
price increases were granted to firms
in the US Zone up to January 1947,
and about 70 uniform industry-wide
or Land-wide price regulations were
issued. These represent only one-
third of the total number of price
increase applications received by US
Zone Price Formation Offices during
this period. A majority of the price
increases granted concerned im-
portant firms and important commo-
dities, and most of them represented
substantial percentage increases fal-
ling roughly in the range from 15 to
40 percent for specific items of speci-
fic factories. Price increases thus far
granted have already affected the
average level of manufactured goods
prices, and their effects are felt in
the cost of living. However, price
levels just before the collapse are
practically untouched in rents, and,
disregarding the effect of subsidy
removal, also in agricultural products,
as well as, so far, in the basic in-
dustrial commodities.

The position of the urban worker
is not unlike that of the basic in-
dustries. Clearly, the worker's eco-
nomic existence is highly dependent
on a functioning system of legal
distribution and pricing. He has little
property to barter away and no newly
produced goods unless they are
provided by the employer as a bonus.
The wage structure has been held
very stable, and the opportun-
ities for black-marketing “elbow

(Continued to page 18)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
General McClure admires a leather-
bound book, the testimonial of all
ICD press control officers and the
93 licensed German publishers of
their appreciation for his leader-
ship and guidance.

PHOTO BY PRO, OMGUS

Oberammergau Play
Scheduled for 1950

The Oberammergau Passion Play,
world-famous for more than 300 years
and last presented officially in 1934,
will be staged again in 1950 under
a license to be granted by the Office
of Military Government for Bavaria.

Eric T. Clarke, Chief of the Film-
Theater-Music Branch, Information
Control Division, OMGUS, announced
that the licensed director of the
Passion Play will be Melchior Breit-
sammter, co-owner of a sawmill in the
village of Oberammergau. Breit-
sammter has portrayed Pontius Pilate
in past performance.

Lt. Col. C. Rogers, Chief of the Film-
Theater-Music Branch, ICD, OMG Ba-
varia, emphasized that Breitsammter
is one of the very few principals
among the players who was not a
Nazi Party member. There are only
3,000 inhabitants in Oberammergau,
but 800 of the population participate
in the production, Of these, 152 players
were Nazis, including those who por-

Brig. Gen, Robert A. McClure, who directed the tremendous power of psycho-
Jogical warfare for SHAEF during the war und supervised the many phases of
information control for American Military Government since, has returned to the
United States to head the New York office of the War Department's Civil Affairs
Division. He is succeeded as Director of the Information Control Division,

trayed Jesus, the Virgin Mary, and
eight of the 12 Apostles. The former
stage director of the play, Georg-

OMGUS, by Col. Gordon E. Textor.

Newsprint Reduced

Licensed German newspapers in
US area of occupation were instructed
by the Press Control Branch, ICD,
OMGUS, last week to reduce news-
print consumption by 50 percent for
the month of June. The order affects
the 44 licensed German newspapers
and Die Neue Zeitung official German-
language newspaper of Military Gov-
ernment.

Under the terms of the bizonal
economic agreement between the US
and British Zones, total production
of newsprint in both zones is divided
on a population basis, 45 percent
going to the US area and 55 percent
to the British area. The fusion agree-
ment calls for the pooling of all
resources available to both zones.
Contributory factors also are in-
volved, including uncertainties of

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

transportation, need to maintain
reserve stocks, and failure of German
paper mills to deliver full quotas in
the first and second quarters of 1947.
According to the ICD announce-
ment, plans are to restore all but
15 percent of the reduction after
1 July. Only an increase in the pro-
duction of newsprint in the combin-
ed area will permit complete restor-
ation to the present consumption of
2,100 tons per month in US-controlled
area. Production in April, actually
available for newspaper circulation
in the combined area approximately
3,200 tons but is expected shortly
to be increased to 4,000 tons.
US-licensed newspapers and Die
Neue Zeitung were compelled to take
an original 10 percent newsprint out
on 31 December 1946. However, the
cut was restored effective 1 April.

14

Johann Lang, was the Oberammergau
Nazi propaganda chief during the
Hitler regime.

However, before any Oberammer-
gau citizen may participate in the
new production, he must never have
been a party member or he must be
cleared under the Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Mili-
tarism. Meanwhile, rehearsals of
practice plays have begun in pre-
paration for the 1950 production.

The Passion Play has been present
decennially since its inception. Its
last official performance marked the
300th anniversary of its origination
in Oberammergau, which is situated
in the valley of the Ammer, a river
of Upper Bavaria, 45 miles southwest
of Munich.

The play had been presented every
ten years as a result of a vow made
by the village inhabitants in 1633 on
the cessation of a plague which had
desolated the surrounding country.

26 MAY 1947

--- Page 18 ---
Food Tops Editorial Comment

The food situation, particularly
concerning the Military Govern-
or's address before the Laenderrat
and the appeals to the farmers in Ba-
varia and Hesse, continues to receive
heavy news and editorial play in the
German press, according to the
weekly analysis by the Information
Control Division, OMGUS, of the
newspapers of the US Zone.

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) said: “The state-
ment of General Clay that American
troops would be called upon in order
to induce the German farmers to
fulfill their delivery duties very
clearly marks the crisis of our food
situation, It represents an accusation
which will have an alarming effect
in town and country because it espe-
cially stresses one side of the Ger-
man food problem.

“Citizens and farmers should re-
member that the General had also
critized the farmers before the Laen-
derrat. But he added that their re-
sistance—for instance against the re-
duction of livestock—could only be
counteracted by placing consumer
goods at their disposal. This remark
reveals very clearly the essential
point of the problem from the Ger-
man side. The farmer who today
gathers from the General's statement
that he intends to force the farmers
to deliver their goods with the aid
of troops must not forget that Gene-
ral Clay also recommended before
the Laenderrat that factories, which
sabotage the economy, be closed
down.”

Quoting “a state is as strong as its
capability to carry out its own laws,"
the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
said: “At the recent meeting of the
Laenderrat General Clay expressed
with these words that the utmost for
delivery of food is not being made
and that the German administration
offices should see to it that the deli-
very laws, which should be formu-
lated more rigidly, are fulfilled.

26 MAY 1947

“The conflict between compulsion
born of distress and the freedom of a
democratic system of a state becomes
again apparent. All those who were
liberated from Hitler's terror regime
are right when they don't want to
be hindered today by any embarrass-
ing compulsive measures. But as we
are not a community of well-fed
people, but a mass of hungry people
it is impossible to fulfill this demand."

The Kasseler Zeitung commented
in a lead editorial:

“While the Western Powers exert
effort to help us in our economic
need, while they place foodstuffs at
our disposal, although there is little
prospect that we will be able to pay
for these immediately through our
exports, we must put up with the
statement...that German bureau-
cracy, through its cumbersome appa-
ratus, would prevent the total seizure
and fair distribution of German food-
stuffs.

“At the last plenary session of the
Hessian Legislature the government
uttered its thanks to the famers for
their work. Thanks for work which
should be taken for granted. When
did a Government ever thank the in-
dustrial or mine workers for their
work, which should also be taken for
granted? It is up to only the farmers
to prevent a final catastrophe in the
cities. The cases are increasing al-
ready in which children and young
people fall victim to tuberculosis
through malnutrition.”

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth)
carried a party-polemical article by
the SPD leader Dr. Arno Behrisch,
who blamed Minister Baumgartner for
the current food crisis in Bavaria.
It said in part:

“The Landtag may feel reassured
by ethe word-streams of the minister,
the hungry stomachs of the workers
are not. And how should they place
faith in the minister, when they can
determine, in Schweinfurt, for examp-

15

milk was delivered to the distri-
bution offices. How richly must the fat
flow to the black market if a mere
speech can turn the pendulum so
sharply.”

The Muenchener Mittag (Munich)
pictured black market deals as “the
wrong course” for satisfying needs.
It associated the pressure for black
marketing with the demand for food:

“The disproportion of luxury and
wealth on one hand of impoverish-
ment on the other, which is becoming
more and more apparent, forces us
to state that the agrarian policy failed
in all zones as a consequence of the
too low delivery quotas for the far-
mers. It respected the interests of
only one class to such an extent that
brought all the rest to the abyss.
Everybody who is familiar with
agriculture will admit that the de-
livery of 3.3 liters of milk per cow in
Bavaria is far below the real average
production, just as the delivery quota
of 60 eggs per hen would reveal a
staggering low point, if these figures
corresponded to reality.”

Literary Sterility

The Frankfurter Neue Presse devot-
ed an editorial to literary sterility
of postwar Germany. It said:

“Two years ago the manuscript
drawers could be opened again, Not
only here, but in the outside world,
people ask after the new works which
they had hoped to see come out of
German spititual life. The question is
answered today. Since the collapse
there have been terribly few good
manuscripts published. Instead, very
many bad ones, And with that, the
time of the unrecognized expert is
over. Anyone who knows how to
write need not wait very long in 1947
to be recognized ... Perhaps there
are particularly cautious literary per-
sonages who are holding back their
best thoughts and works from the
public until the stabilization of fin-
ance.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
(Continued from page 4)

Refugees and Expellees

above a minimum size. If kitchens
were not included, the average num-
ber of persons per room rises to 2.0.

One of the significant facts of this
change is that over 4,500 expellees,
or over 50 percent of the total new-
comers, arrived in Mittelstadt in the
short period of three months from
June through August 1946, The in-
crease in population was neither a
gradual, natural, nor voluntary deve-
lopment. By November 1946, the town
had received its last installment of
expellees.

Examining the non-native groups,
particularly the expellees, to see what
kind and types of people they are,
these facts stand out:

As ethnic Germans, all 9,900 ex-
pellees speak German, though there
are certain dialectic differences in
speech which distinguish them from
longtime residents.

Over 90 percent of these people
consider themselves German, though
94 percent were born in what is now
Czechoslovakia.

Of approximately 9,900 expellees,
50 percent fall between the ages 14 to
50 years, 17 percent are between 50
to 65, and 10 percent or almost 1,000
persons are past the age of 65.

Most expellees in Mittelstadt came
from small villages or rural commun-
ities in their former homelands —
generally from villages with under
2,000 population. Very few miners
or professional people are included
in the group, while 25 percent of the
people previously made their living
from agriculture, 35 percent from
trades, 40 percent in various other
ways. Two out of five persons have
been able to continue their previous
or similar occupation in Mittelstadt.

The movement of expellees into the
US Zone has been suspended since
December 1946. At present 2,632,890
expellees are living in the zone and,
in addition, approximately 540,000 re-
fugees (from other zones).

Of the 2,632,890 expellees only
1,335,142 or approximately one-half,
have come into the zone in “organ-
ized’ movements. Among those who
did not belong to an organized move-
ment are nearly 800,000 Germans

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

formerly living east of the Oder and
Neisse rivers.

Of the 11,300 expellees originally
scheduled to come to the county
where Mittelstadt is located, only
9,762, or 86 percent, were actually
received in organized movements.
However, in this year’s total county
population of 47,000 are approxi-
mately 5,000 refugees from other parts
of Germany who have settled in the
county since 1945 but were not part
of the organized expellee movement.

In Mittelstadt itself, 6,750 expellees
were received as against an alloc-
ation of 7,200, but once again the influx
of nearly 3,200 refugees more than
made up the difference.

In town and country, whatever
their origin or mode of travel, ex-
pellees and refugees caused greater
strain on food and housing resources.
In a country suffering acutely from
the economic and moral depression
of complete military defeat, over
20 percent of the people are strugl-
ing for a living in an unfamiliar
environment.

(Continued from page 8)
Combined Nutrition survey

The general stringency of food
supplies overshadows the whole
nutritional picture. Aside from ca-
lories, any deficiencies of nutrients
are secondary in importance, The
total insufficiency of the rations is
reflected in the shortage of a number
of nutrients. A deficiency in potatoes
and green vegetables has been re-
flected in the appearance of some
medical evidence of incipient vita-
min C deficiency, although the si-
tuation has partly been met by the
use of substantial supplies of turnips
and other root vegetables. The fairly
severe shortage of milk, together with
that of vegetables, has resulted in a
probably minimal intake of vitamin A.
Milk has been made available to the
youngest children, but the supplies
previously recommended by the Com-
mittee for older children have not
been available. For the adult popula-
tion there is no evidence that the
shortage of protein and certain ofher
nutrients would not be corrected auto-
matically by an increase in the total
food supply. The Committee has given

16

consideration to certain disturbances
in health alleged to be the result of
the small amount of fat in the dietary.
While the Committee does not believe
that such amounts of fat are optimal
or even desirable, it wishes to point
out that there is no scientific evi-
dence clearly indicating that fat per
se is essential for man. No evidence
of harmful effects directly attributable
to low fat intake was obtained. In-
direct effects, such as those attri-
butable to deficiencies of the so-called
fat soluble vitamins, remain mild in
degree and little, if any, more fre-
quent than in many other countries.

In each of the three zones the
Committee was aware of the
threatening aspect of the future food
supply. From time to time the possi-
bility of halving the bread ration was
raised. If such a step were taken, the
Committee must emphasize its serious
consequences. Quite apart from the
obviously serious results of such a
step, the ill effects on the confidence
of the German people in the food ad-
ministration were very obvious. Such
a lack of confidence, with its direct
encouragement to black market
dealings, cannot fail in the Com-
mittee’s opinion, to aggravate the
danger of inequitable distribution
accompanied by malnutrition among
the less privileged members of the
community.

MFA&A Functions

OMGUS letter AG 007 (ED), “Per-
formance of MFA&A_ Functions,”
10 May 1947, provides:

“Monument, Fine Arts and Archives
functions, including operation of art
and archival collecting points, dis-
position of repositories, investigation
of cases involving missing looted art
objects, screening of German collec-
tions, and restitution to the govern-
ments of former occupied countries
are a continuing responsibility of
Military Government which by their
nature and because of quadripartite
commitments cannot devolve upon
German agencies. Despite, therefore,
reductions in personnel in other func-
tions, MFA&A functions as required
by MGR Title 18, Chance No.1 and
the approved Functional Program
must be continued.”

26 MAY 1947

--- Page 20 ---
everal US newspapers commenting
Son second anniversary of end of
war in Europe, balanced steps achiev-
ed toward securing peace against
unsolved world problems. Although
expressing regret that firm peace had
not yet been assured, they pointed
to positive results of the Allied victoy,
and called for continuing efforts
to make worthwhile the tremendous
sacrifices of those who contributed
to victory.

The Washington Star said in part:

“Two years ago German surrender-
ed totally ..... Japan's days were
clearly numbered .... Now a stricken
humanity could hope that out of this
great Allied victory would be fashion-
ed a peace, a decent and enduring
new order, under which peoples
everywhere might have a chance to
prosper and be secure together for
generations to come.

“Today, two years later, it is only
too easy to yield either to a mood
of cynicism or mood of despair .....
The fruits of victory that have been
gathered up to now have been not
sweet but bitter...

New Safeguard Policy

“The grand coalition of wartime
allies is in ominous deadlock over
the future of Germany. Worse than
that, there is such a gulf in ideologies
and apparent aims between Russia
and western democracies that the lat-
ter, not without reason, have begun
to suspect the former of a deliberate
effort to spread its dominance by
promoting chaos and exerting direct
and indirect pressures in the key
areas of world, Result has been a
Steadily growing trend toward the
creation of two antagonistic blocs,
one totalitarian and one not—a trend
that has forced United States to
undertake a history-making new po-
licy to safeguard sovereignty of
Greece and Turkey against actual or
potential threats from Moscow.

26 MAY 1947

Hope for Firm Peace Still Seen

“This is not peace. Stripped to its
essentials, it is grim power politics...
It is a bitter thing that this must be
said two years after V-E. Yet the bit-
terness of it ought not to be allowed
to distort our perspective. Picture is
not all black by any means. No power
wants a major armed conflict; no
power, excepting United States, is
physically equipped to wage one; all
peoples—as peoples have come to
loathe war. Moreover, the United Na-
tions is in being; it is young and re-
latively powerless, but it is maturing,
and there is still reason to hope that
it will evolve into an effective in-
strument for collective security....

“A world has been ripped apart as
never before; time, patience, unflag-
ging effort, affirmative action—with
or without Russia—will be required
to put it together again. In the age
of the atom, men and governments
can give up striving for a good peace,
can yield to a sense of hopelessness,
only at the risk of engulfing them-
selves, sooner or later, in a cataclysm
of mutual annihilation.”

Philadelphia Inquirer: “Our heart-
fealt desire for a stable peace is
known to all of us; we must convince
the Russians of  it.....Having
struggled the ordeal of war, we have
struggled through two years of
uneasy peace. We shall be failing
those who bought the V-E Day sur-
render with their lives if we do not
continue to struggle for a peace that
will last in a world of free men.”

Philadelphia Evening Bulletin: “Bad
as things are today, it is not true to
say that another great war is imminent
or inevitable. None of the great prow-
ers wants war. There is reasonable
ground for believing that world can
expect a period of prolonged,
although uneasy, peace, which will
give the nations time to build for
peace and security on the foundations
already laid.”

The New York Times: “Promises
of victory have not all been realized;

17

the problems ‘
thus far defied 3
solve them; the internatiOna
remain full of thunder clouds. But in
the frustration and the anxieties of
the moment let us not forget either
the glory, or the sacrifices, or the
blessings of that victory, which can
never fade, whatever happens.

“For the triumph of the great al-
liance over Hitler's Germany marked
the end of the most ambitious, most
savage, and most nearly successful
attempt at world conquest ever ven-
tured. It is wise now to recall the
days when the Axis armies bestrode
three continents with seemingly irre-
sistible force, when they swaggered
in Paris, Tripoli, and Singapore, when
they knocked at the gates of Moscow.
All this must be remembered, to find
a proper comparison with the ills
that remain or to measure our pre-
sent apprehensions against the ago-
nizing tensions of Stalingrad, El Ala-
mein, and D-Day.....

New Dedication to Aim

“Insofar as victory has fallen short
of its promises, this should also be a
day of new dedication to make these
promises come true. Five years of
war and two years of conferences
and debates have failed to produce
peace. The deadlock among the vic-
tors is today greater than ever. Like
many other wartime coalitions crea-
ted by a common enemy, the grand
coalition that crushed the Axis is also
in danger of falling apart over the
terms of peace. That is all the more
deplorable because the outlines of
the peace were supposedly well pre-
pared in the wartime agreements,
from the Atlantic Charter to the
United Nations Charter. Surely, in the
long run, the solution to the present
stalemate must be sought in a return
to those agreements.”

Detroit News: ‘However great the
difficulties of these times....we re-
quire no proof that the situation is
far more hopeful for all of humanity
than would have been the case if
Hitler had become victor."

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
(Continued from page 13)

Stagnant Inflation

grease” are not large. Therefore, ma-
nual and clerical workers champion
policies that once more would give
effective purchasing power to their
wages and salaries through better
distribution and stable prices.

In the face of the wage stop the
increase in the legal cost of living
has weighed on the worker's house-
hold budget. Reduction of commuters’
railway fares to their pre-March 1946
level has caused a slight drop of
the legal cost of living index in Janu-
ary to a level 10 percent above Octo-
ber 1945. Yet a growing number of
cases are reported in which workers’
legal incomes are insufficient to buy
their rations and necessities at legal
prices. The trade unions continue to
endorse the broad principle of wage
stability and limit their requests for
wage increases to the building mate-
rials, construction, and other “pro-
blem” industries and to the worker
categories whose pay falls short of
the cost of necessities. Instead of
using the higher cost of living as an
argument for general wage increases,
German trade unions demand empha-
tically the enforcement of price sta-
bility and a rolling back of price in-
creases permitted up to now. Their
standing with the workers and their
very existence as peaceful and so-
cially constructive organizations are
bound up with the outcome of this
issue.

Under the prevailing conditions of
raw material supply, production, fin-
ance, and administration in Germany,
there is little opportunity to in-
fluence the level of direction of pro-
duction by increases of legal prices.
Broad sections of the economy do
not react to price stimulation. The
significance of price adjustments is
at present largely limited to the im-
provement of the liquidity or the ac-
counting situation of business firms,
especially in the basic industries.
Price adjustments also prepare for
reasonable cost-price relations for the
day when prices regain their function
in the economy and correct or pre-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

vent inequities to those who have to
rely on their legal rations of con-
sumers’ goods,

As long as money is almost use-
less—as at present in Germany—as
a means of saving and, rationed
goods apart, as a means of legal
buying, prices must either spiral up-
ward or lose their function through
the spreading of barter and compen-
sation trade. While enforcement of
the price-stop and of other economic
controls has barred price inflation, it
has been unable to bar its alterna-
tive. In fact, the development of bar-
ter and compensation trading has
taken the edge off some price pres-
sures. It may be considered that, in
the disturbed state of the present-
day German economy, emphasized
by the superabundance of money, it
is almost impossible for private enter-
prises simultaneously and consistenly
to operate at stable prices and to
avoid barter arrangements.

Report Responsibility

The necessity of certain forms in
connection with reporting injuries
and/or death incurred in the perform-
ance of duty by civilian employees
whose salaries are paid from appro-
priated funds is noted in EUCOM
letter AG 230 GAP—AGE, “Em-
ployees’ Compensation for Disability
and Death,” 28 April 1947. The letter
directs:

“Preparation of such forms is a
supervisory responsibility and is not
a function which can be delegated to
civilian personnel officers, Employee
Relations Staffs, or others in like posi-
tions. Services of such persons may
be solicited for technical assistance
and certain follow-up action; how-
ever, the actual preparation of the
forms, and the certification as to
correctness of information included
thereon, must be accomplished by
the employee and his supervisor.”

Mail with Yugoslavia resumed

International postal service has been
resumed between Yugoslavia and Ger-
many for those categories of mail
presently authorized by the Allied
Control Authority.

18

Ban on US Part
In German Cases

Attention is called by-OMGUS to
continuing violations of the prohibi-
tion against members or employees
of the US Forces appearing as wit-
nesses in denazification hearings. The
full text of a cable sent 16 May to
all MG installations follows:

“Reference is made to OMGUS
cable dated 14 March 1947, reference
number V-15366, which prohibits
members or employees of the US
Forces from appearing as witnesses in
denazification tribunals except upon
written request of the chairman of
the tribunal, and after that request
has been approved by appropriate
authority, as specified in OMGUS
Circular No.154, dated 15 October
1946. There is the further instruction
in OMGUS cable No. CC 8253 of
3 July 1946, as well as Military Gov-
ernment Regulation 9-802, that no
member or employee of the US Forces
may deal with a denazification tribunal
except through the local Special Branch.

“These instructions, which have
gone out to all United States Mili-
tary Units, are still being violated
from time to time. Hereafter, you
will request the Minister of Libera-
tion to report such violations through
the Chief of the Special Branch,
giving the name and all the parti-
culars with specific charges, which,
after verification, will be transmitted
to the superior or commanding officer
of the person concerned.

“Liaison and Security Officers are
instructed to take this matter up with
the commanding officers of military
units in their areas to the report
offenders to commanding officers for
disciplinary action.”

EUCOM Hg Building

The designation of the building
housing the headquarters of the
European Command in Frankfurt/Main
is specified in General Orders No. 39
of Hq EUCOM, dated 10 May 1947,
It directs that this building in
the Frankfurt Military Post “is de-
signated the Headquarters Building,
European Command,” and adds that
“reference to this building as ‘IG
Farben’ and ‘Farben’ is prohibited.”

26 MAY 1947

--- Page 22 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Change 12 to Title 9, Public Safety,
AG 014, 12, OMGUS, 16 December
1946, Seven changes and 18 additions
to MGR. Text of changes and addi-
tions dated 12 December 1946.

Change 3 to Title 6, Public Health,
AG 014, 12, OMGUS, 3 February 1947.
Supersedes previous Title 6 and Chan-
ges 1 and 2, Full text of new Title
6 issued same date.

Change 1 to Title 16, Monuments,
Fine Arts and Archives, AG 014. 12,
OMGUS, 12 February 1947, Super-
sedes previous Title 18. Full text of
new Title 18 issued same date.

Change 2 to Title 2, Eradication of
Nazism and Militarism, AG 014. 12,
OMGUS, 17 February 1947. Replaces
MGR 2—240.5. Text of new MGR
issued same date.

Treatment of Civilian Employees
Contracting Venereal Disease, AG 230
GAP—AGE, Hq EUCOM, 2 April 1947.

Enlistment in the Enlisted Reserve
Corps, AG 342.06 AGP—B, Hq
EUCOM, 2 April 1947.

Literacy Training, AG 353 GCT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 April 1947.

Fresh Milk Distribution, AG 430
RMJ-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 April 1947.
Lists priority for distribution in Eu-
ropean Command.

Food Conservation Poster, AG 430
RMJ-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 April 1947.
Provides for destruction and retention
of certain posters.

Routing Electrical Communications,
AG 311.2 SIG-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
3 April 1947. Prescribes procedure.

Military Posts, AG 322 GCT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 4 April 1947, Revises
previous letter of 21 February 1947
in respect to Hq US Constabulary
and Hanau Military Post.

Local Efficiency Rating Commit-
tees, AG 334 GAP-AGE, Hq EUCOM,
4 April 1947, Conforms to WD Ci-
vilian Personnel Regulation No. 95
of 20 February 1947.

16 mm and 35 mm Entertainment
Film and Newsreels, AG 413.53 SSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 4 April 1947.

Property Accountability, AG 140
GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 5 April 1947.

26 MAY 1947

Court Reporters, AG 250.4 GAP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 5 April 1947.

Organization, Command, and Ad-
ministration of Military Districts in
the US Zone of Germany and the Bre-
men Enclave, AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 5 April 1947, Amends part
of USFET letter of 31 January 1947.

Grafenwohr Training Center, AG
3232 GCT, Hq EUCOM, 8 April 1947.
Lists schedule.

Standardization of Rail Warrants, AG
531 RYT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 8 April
1947.

Physical Examinations, AG 201.5
MCH-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 10 April
1947. Substitutes for USFET letter AG
201.5 GAP-AGE of 9 November 1946.

Direct Enlistments for Counter In-
telligence Corps, AG 342.01 AGP-B,
Hq EUCOM, 11 April 1947. Rescinds

letter of 19 February 1947, and quotes
WD Memorandum No. 600-750-4 of
25 November 1946 and Change 1 of
19 March 1947,

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

Evaluation of Enlisted Men's Sui-
tability for Further Military Training,
AG 342.06 AGP-B. Hq EUCOM,
11 April 1947. Quotes from WD letter
AGSE-P 342.06 of 28 March 1947.

Furniture — Army Service Clubs
and American Red Cross Clubs, AG
414 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 11 April
1947. Provides for accountability as
Special Services property.

Quarterly Reports, Part C, Real Pro-
perty Record, (Engineer Form 1266),
AG 601 ENG-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
11 April 1947.

Detail of Officers in Special Ser-
vices, AG 210.31 AGP-B, Hq EUCOM,
14 April 1947, In accordance with AR
605—145 (C 2 of 26 February 1947).

Application of Civilian Personnel
Regulation 155 for Return of De-
pendents, AG 292 GAP-AGE, Hq EU-

19

COM, 14 April 1947. Gives procedure
for return of dependents to the Uni-
ted States when employees desire to
remain for a further tour of duty.

Routing Electrical Communications,
AG 311.2 SIG-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
15 April 1947. Substitutes paragraph
in letter of 3 April 1947 (noted above).

Enlistment of Congressional Medal
of Honor Men, AG 342.06 AGP-B, Hq
EUCOM, 15 April 1947.

1947 European Command Amateur
and Professional Golf Championships,
AG 353.8 SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
15 April 1947,

1947 European Command Company
Level Softball Championship, AG
353.8 SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 Aprit
1947,

1947 European Command Archery
and Horseshoes Championships, AG
353.8 SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 April
1947,

1947 European Command Badminton
Championship, AG 353.8 SSP-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 15 April 1947.

Spot Checking of German Trucks
for Presence of Military Tires, AG
333 PMG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 16 April
1947. Discontinues practice.

Personnel Visiting Rome, AG 200.4
GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 17 April 1947.
Instructs visitors to contact American
Military Attaché on arrival.

Time Limitation Governing Mili-
tary Awards, AG 200.6 GAP-AGP-B,
Hy EUCOM, 17 April 1947. Rescinds
USFET letter AG 200.6 GAP-AGP-Q
of 24 January 1947 and points to
limitation in AG 600-45 of 22 Sep-
tember 1943 as amended.

Rescission of Classification Hand-
book (Revised), AG 461 GAP-AGP-B,
Hq EUCOM, 17 April 1947. Cites
TM's 12-406 and 12-427 as amended
as official source documents,

Shipment of Toxic Chemical Muni-
tions by Land and Water, AG 520
CML-AGO, 18 April 1947. Rescinds
Hq ETOUSA letter AG 470.6 OpCW
of 18 March 1945 and cites provisions
given in AR's and TM's.

1947 European Command Track and.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 23 ---
Field Championships, AG 353.8 SSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 19 April 1947.

Cancellation of Requisitions, AG
400.312 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
19 April 1947, Gives procedure due
to reorganization. First indorsement,
AG 400.312 (CO), OMGUS, 6 May
1947, repeats EUCOM letter for in-
formation, guidance and necessary
action by Land OMG’'s, and says it
does not apply to any OMGUS ele-
ments located in Berlin. Paragraph
on cancellation is amended in the
indorsement.

Plan for Reorganization of US For-
ces in the European Command, AG
322 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, #1 April
1947, Gives Annex No. 3 — Civil
Affairs Plan.

Transfer of Alien Bride Activities,
AG 292 AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 April
1947. Gives responsibility for pro-
cessing administrative matters to Hq
EUCOM.

Clothing and Equipage Inspections,
AG 333 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
22 April 1947.

Unit Histories to Which Recently
Activated Units in the European Com-
mand are Entitled, AG 314.7 GCT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 23 April 1947,
Lists units.

Demobilization of Officer Personnel,
AG 370 GAP-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM,
23 April 1947, Changes paragraph in
USFET letter of 28 February 1947,

Personnel and Supply Movement
Estimate for May 1947, AG 370.5 RYT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 23 April 1947.

Army Safety Program, AG 729.3
PMG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 24 April
1947, Quotes and implements WD
letter.

Transient Billets for Indigenous
Drivers, AG 624 GDS-AGO, Hq EU-
COM, 25 April 1947. Gives procedure.

Military Posts, AG 680.3 GDS-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 25 April 1947. Concerns
accomodations,

Criminal Investigation Detachment,
AG 322 PMG-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
26 April 1947.

V-E Day and Memorial Day, AG
006 GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 28 April
1947,

WEEKLY INFORMATICN BULLETIN

Employee's Compensation for Dis-
ability and Death, AG 230 GAP-AGE,
Hq EUCOM, 28 April 1947. (See se-
parate item.)

Local Efficiency Rating Committees,
AG 334 GAP-AGE, Hq EUCOM,
28 April 1947. Substitutes paragraphs
in EUCOM letter of 28 April 1947
(note above).

Publications by and for Displaced
Persons, AG 383.7 GEC-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 28 April 1947. Substitutes
for USFET letter of 9 September 1946
and USFET message No. SC-27051 of

a? December 1946,

Military Posts, AG 322 GCT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 30 April 1947, Changes
Amberg Military Post to Grafenwohr
Military Post in USFET letter of
21 February 1947.

European Command _ Tentative
Equipment Modification List and
Tables of Allowances, AG 400.34
GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 30 April
1947, Corrects recission in EUCOM
letter of 25 April 1947,

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS, 2 May
1947, Concerns actions taken 29 April
1947,

Army Commendation Ribbon, AG
200.6 AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 2 May
1947, Repeats WD letter of 21 April
1947,

Enlistment of Conscientious Ob-
jectors, AG 342 AGP-B, Hq EUCOM,
2 May 1947. Repeats WD letter of
18 April 1947 on instructions to
recruiting personnel,

Policies with Respect to German
Dependents, AG 292 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 2 May 1947. Concerns com-
missary privileges,

Ration Scale for German Civilian
Internees under Direct Control of US
Forces, AG 430.2 GEC-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 3 -May 1947. Concerns
change in USFET letter of 27 Novem-
ber 1946 on strength report.

Administration of Indigenous Civi-
lian Employees in US Occupied Zone,
Germany, Civilian Personnel Circular
No. 12, Hq EUCOM, 6 May 1947.
Concerns policies and implementive
procedure governing the use of in-
digenous personnel by the military
forces in the US Zone.

20

Troops and Schools, Training
Memorandum No. 1, Hq EUCOM,
6 May 1947, ,

Military Government Law No. 57
on Custodians for Certain Bank Or-
ganizations, AG 010.6 (FD), OMGUS,
7 May 1947. Concerns Deutsche Bank,
Dresdner Bank and Commerzbank.
Texts in English and German included.

Correction of German Translation
of Control Council Law No. 43, “Pro-
hibition of the Manufacture, Import,
Export, Transport, and Storage of
War Materials," AG 010.6 (LD),
OMGUS, 7 May 1947. Corrects Ger-
man translation in Official Gazette of
the Control Council.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS, 6 May
1947. Concerns actions of 3 May 1947.

Circular No. 25, Hq EUCOM, 8 May
1947. Section I, Allowances of In-
secticides. Section II, Assistance by
US Army to Foreign Governments
and their Representatives in US Area
of Control in Germany and Austria,
changes portions of EUCOM Cir 6 of
1947, Section II, Leaves, Passes, and
Travel in the European Command,
amends EUCOM Cir 9 of 1947 as to
commanders authorized to grant
leaves, passes, and oral permits.

Circular No. 27, Hq EUCOM, 9 May
1947. Section I, Property Account-
ability in European Command, substi-
tutes part of EUCOM Cir 14 of 1947
on auditing of accounts. Section II,
Civilian Uniform Regulations, amends
EUCOM Cir 15 Sec III of 1947 as to..
American Red Cross personnel and
members of the Army Hostess and
Librarian Service. Section III, Enlist-
ment and Reenlistment in the Regular
Army, substitutes in USFET Cir 17 of
1947 the citizenship proof clause.

Performance of MFA&A Functions,
AG 007 (ED), OMGUS, 10 May 1947.
(See separate item.)

Correction of German Translation
of Military Government Law No. 53,
“Foreign Exchange Control", AG
010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 12 May 1947.
Gives correct meaning to “bullion”.

Requesting and Effecting Civilian
Personnel Actions, AG 200.3 (PO),
OMGUS, 15 May 1947.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF