--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 91 / 5 MAY 1947

ane
i sar debdnnd-t.
i i
x
Lee
a eet
Ae |

Ns
x

4

}

pS) SSres: .
a ,
j =:
4. =
| 8 +
}
fp fae ES +
|
a
ie. fh. cae Bs Seess
j x b.@et i jt
# &, { @} ie
—_
—
ye 0
.
noe

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG
BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG
mS LAUTERBACH, |

FRIEOBERG

FRANKENBERG | FRITZLAR @ Et

OBER =
LAHNKREIS

BODINGEN

QBERTAUNU!
WIESBADEN Renna?

OFFENBACH
IAUBER BISCH -
OFSHEIM.
IEIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAL
HEILBRONN
.
ps BACKNANG
PEORZHEIM

BOBLINGEN Frases

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

Photo by Rosenberg

/, 2 ANSPORT—Franktart's railway sta-
‘s featured on this week's cover, a sym-

© the central role rail transportation — TABLE OF CONTENTS

pet io aS oo egy) ] Coal “Producto oo) fos. ag ye mis ates aslo en oa ee

: : : Restoraon eee ek fayisniws cack foecicml aulet ee ieee

OUR CONTRIBUTORS Bremen MG Policy Outlined . . ....... 7

Material for Coal Production was pre- a
pared: by the Coal Section, Economics Di- Health: Resorts: {io0 . a)i\'s dois golly bemoan

Press and Radio Coniments:. 4: #5. sche seu ott

German ‘Reactions’ .* <j a} aniieud oe iblae $b sold

Officral Instructions’... nie y.eaayowe seco «Te /AalG

Division, is the story of MFA&A's work
during this past year including its treasure
‘s, return of art objects to proper owners,
< reconstruction of damaged cultural in-
tations, ;
Malion supplied by the PRO’s of the various
steics im the US Zone. At one time, most
Harope's nobility visited Germany's baths;
Wit! post-war reconstruction, these famous

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY U.S.)
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Msc ry
Ue
Mal ih

ack of coal is the number one
eee problem of Europe today
and tomorrow. Its principal sources
of supply are Europe itself and the

United States. Imports from the
United States cannot be expected to
contribute much more than an aver-
age of two and a half million tons
per month, owing partly to shipping
difficulties and partly to a high “‘de-
livered” price and low dollar credits.

The United Kingdom, which for-
merly exported some 39 million tons
per year, is not in a position to make
any contribution at present to the
relief of other European countries
and has been barely able to supply
its own needs. Poland has a surplus
production of 20 to 25 million tons
annually, of which about 10 million
tons are committed to the Soviet
Union. Later, there may be 10 to
15 million tons available for export
and distribution particularly to such
countries as Austria, the Scandina-
vian countries, and Eastern Germany,
but to date transportation difficulties
and political and exchange problems
have prevented any appreciable deliv-
eries from this source. Germany has
been called upon, from the beginning

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

aii).

of Allied occupation, to supply a con-
siderable part of the fuel needs of
continental Europe in addition to her
own requirements.

The American, British, and French
Governments recently announced that
an arrangement has been made to fix
the proportion of coal exports from
the western zones of Germany to the
coal importing countries of Europe for
the six months period beginning
1 July 1947. Exports will be fixed in
terms of percentages of net merchant-
able coal production beginning at 21
percent when the daily output of
clean hard coal in the western zones
reaches 280,000 tons a day, and rising
to 25 percent when it reaches 370,000
tons a day.

The scale of percentages takes
account on the one hand of the needs
of coal for the reconstruction of the
liberated countries of Europe, who
have always been dependent on im-
ports of German coal, and on the
other of the essential requirements of
the German economy.

If and when the economic incor-
poration of the Saar with France has
been decided upon, a joint notifica-
tion will be made to the European

2

that in the future France will present
to ECO both the resources and the
needs of France and the Saar as a

~whole,. and inviting ECO to - take

account of this new situation.

There are two principal types of
fuel produced in Western Europe. The
term “Steinkohle’, embracing both
anthracite and bituminous, is trans-
lated as “hard coal" to distinguish it
from ,,Braunkohle”, a soft inferior
grade of lignite containing, at mining,
some 50 percent of moisture. Germany
is by far the world's largest producer
of Braunkohle, which is principally
consumed as briquettes — produced
by drying and compressing the raw
lignite—and in the raw state in spe-
cially-constructed | power _ stations
alongside huge open “‘strip’ pits.
Braunkohle briquettes require special
equipment for efficient combustion
and—because of their low fuel value,
bulk, and friability—transport over
long distances is uneconomical,

The Ruhr, in the British Zone, is
Germany’s largest producer of Stein-
kohle. The average daily net pithead
production in 1938 was 448,000 tons;
at present it is 225,000 tons. This coal
field produces practically all grades
of anthracite and bituminous coal,
principally the latter. Employment at
the mines is 90 percent of that in 1938,
but there is a disproportionate num-
ber of men working on the surface

5 MAY 1947

--- Page 6 ---
repairing war damage and worn out
mining equipment. The Ruhr area,
because of its war potential, suffered
worse war damage than any other
section of Germany. The second larg-
est brown coal field is near Cologne,
also in the British Zone.

In contrast, the US Zone has only
two small brown coal and one small
“pech coal” (sub-bituminous) field
whose combined production is negli-
gible even in the German picture.

Second largest hard coal field in
present-day Germany and strategically
located alongside the border of France
proper is the Saar, in the French Zone.
Daily net pithead production here in
1938 was 48,000 tons. The present
average is 33,000 tons.

By far the largest brown coal
mining development of the world is
in Middle Germany in the Soviet
Zone. The industry was developed
extensively because of the consider-
able distance from sources of hard
coal and opportunities for low-cost
mining. In 1938 the daily net pithead
production of raw brown coal here
was 423,800 tons, from a part of which
were produced some 101,000 tons of
briquettes. The present daily produc-
tion is 305,000 tons of brown coal and
78,000 tons of briquettes. A large
tonnage of the briquettes is used in
distillation to produce synthetic oil
and other products. These mines,
power plants, and oil refineries were
only slightly damaged by the war.

In Silesia, now under Polish control,
there are two important fields whose
combined 1938 daily net pithead pro-
duction was 102,000 tons of hard coal.
At present these fields are supplying
some coal to the Soviet Zone of Ger-
many.

The problem of coal in Germany is
not only production, but also trans-
portation, particularly from the Ruhr
area where, during the last four
months, over 1,300,000 tons of coal
were added to stockpiles in the vicin-
ity of the mining plants. Contribu-
ting ‘causes were the freezing of all
inland waterways, decreased  effi-.
ciency of railroad operating per-
sonnel, and failures of locomotive
equipment due to the unusually cold
weather. Inland waterway traffic has
now been resumed and will be utilized
to its fullest extent during the warm

5 MAY 1947

weather period. This together with
rail transportation facilities offers an
opportunity to build stockpiles of coal
in strategic locations. Even so, unless
immediate steps are taken to increase
repair of transport and thus increase
tail capacity, transportation could be-
come a limiting factor to rising coal
production this fall.

As for general production itself,
there are two distinct problems in the
Ruhr today: additional labor and in-
creased productivity of labor. These
difficulties can further be broken
down to. housing and _ furnishings,
morale and the physical conditions of
workers, and mine supplies. Any
source of worker discontent can be
traced almost unfailingly to the scar-
city of food and consumer goods. On
the mechanical side, large numbers
of workers must be used to keep old
equipment in repair who otherwise
could be employed in the actual
mining of coal. Most critical needs
in the mines are for steel and pit

props.

At the Neumueh! mine in Hamborn. Here,
large
numbers of workers must be kept above
ground to keep old equipment in repair.
Photo by Byers

as at most German mines today,

What has been done and is being
done to solve these problems? Inten-
sive recruitment and even “direction”
of labor has been carried out in the
British Zone to increase the miner
population for the Ruhr area, and
recruitment is being carried on now
in the US Zone and Berlin. The coal
miner has been given a “favored”
classification, his food rations have
been raised to 4,000 calories per day
for underground workers as compared
with the basic German civilian ration
of 1500 calories; and he has been
given the only large wage increase in
Germany. Further, a “points scheme”
has been put into effect to provide
those miners with good attendance
and productivity records with scarce
food items, clothing, and other con-
sumer goods. These factors have
attracted recruits to the point that
today the largest bottlenecks are
housing and household furniture.

Publicity measures are used to in-
doctrinate the miners with their re-

(continued on page 15)

--- Page 7 ---


--- Page 8 ---
rt intelligence, which seeks to

locate cultural treasures which
disappeared during the war, has been
dramatically successful during the
past six months. Though constituting
only one function of Monuments, Fine
Arts and Archives, Restitution Branch,
OMGUS, this work nevertheless makes
possible most of the other tasks of
MFA&A: to safeguard art objects
from theft and exposure, unscramble
the. confused records of ownership,
and return the objects to owner
nations.

Starting with important year-end
discoveries, over a half-dozen treasure
stores which have been sought ever
since the end of the war have been
located. Perhaps the most sensational
find was the discovery of the treasures
of the Martin von Wagner Museum,
Wuerzburg, in an air raid bunker at
Schweinfurt. The cache consisted of
82 paintings (some by Palma, Teniers,
and Tintoretto), 13 framed Coptic tex-
tiles, and 11 pieces of sculpture (four
of them Riemenschneider, as well as
a terracotta by Luca della Robbia),
making good one of the greatest single
losses suffered by any museum in the
US Zone. These objects had been the
subject of an 18-months’ search by
American and Germany agencies.

An all-out drive one month last fall
to recover looted works of art resulted
in the confiscation of some 30 paint-
ings from black-market dealers in
Munich alone.

Three missing tapestries belonging
to Cologne churches were found in
January at the Gobelin worshop in
Nymphenburg, to which they had
been brought in 1945. Another January
find was the discovery of the library
of the Kiev Institute for Research in
Chemistry and Physics. The 15,000
volumes of this great library, together
with a considerable amount of lab-
oratory material, were found in the
Festspielhaus (the great theater) at
Bayreuth.

Also highly important was the dis-
covery in February of 45 paintings
belonging to the Coburg State Found-
ation, which had disappeared from
Rosenau Castle in Bavaria, to which
they .had been evacuated during the
war. They had later been transferred
to Thambach Castle in Bavaria—where
they eventually were found—for

greater security, and the documents
on the transfer were lost in the chaotic
period of Germany’s downfall.

These are only some of the more
recent dramatic highlights of the work
of MG’s art detectives. Their dis-
coveries have ranged from old
masters, antique rugs, and tapestries
to priceless furniture and jewels,
stolen from private citizens and
famous collections all over the con-
tinent.

Like all war-threatened countries,
Germany tried to protect her art
treasures from bomb damage by mov-
ing her most valuable pieces from
museums in the city danger zones to
the comparative safety of the country.
As the Allied armies closed in, almost
all important works which could be
moved, both legitimate German prop-
erty and material looted from the
occupied countries, were hastily hidden
in air raid shelters, salt mines, or
church steeples—anywhere that seem-
ed to promise shelter. With the de-
struction of records in the bombings
and the scattering of museum staffs
after the defeat, the location of many
of these treasure troves was forgotten,
as in the instance of the material lost
from the Martin von Wagner Museum.

It is believed that the great bulk of
the art caches in the US Zone already
have been located, but because there
were so many of them, and some were
so carefully concealed, new ones are
still being uncovered at the rate of
about 30 each month. A survey of
local museums in Hesse during Febru-
ary, for example, led to the discovery
of 26 previously unreported repos-
itories. Some 1425 repositories had
been reported in the zone by 1 April
1947, of which nearly half had been
inspected and 43 percent had been
evacuated or returned to German
custody.

But painstaking work of this kind is
only part of the 1947 program of MFA
&A. Last May, the Coordinating Com-
mittee approved Directive No. 30 for-
bidding the construction of any statue
or monument, and the display of any
posters, tablets, or insignia glorifying
war or the Nazi Party. It provided that
any such structures which were erect-
ed after 1 August 1914 were to be de-
stroyed, although exceptions would
be made for those of unusual artistic

Schwaebisch-Hall in Wuerttemberg-Baden, dating from 1730—35
and severely damaged during the war, is typical of famous
buildings being reconstructed all over the US Zone. Here the

townspeople restore the cupola to the old rathaus.

Photo by Curlis

value or essential public utility. Direc-
tive No. 30 also prohibited the reopen-
ing of military museums and exhibi-
tions, and provided for their liqui-
dation not later than 1 January 1947.

Basic work on the destruction, re-
moval, or alteration of objectionable
monuments was completed in Bavaria
by March of this year. In Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, 33 monuments had been
recommended for destruction, remo-
val, or alteration, and work has been
accomplished on 16, with a decision
on the others to be reached shortly. In
Hesse, by February of this year, MG
officials recommended that no further
action be taken since sufficient chang-
es already have been made. Work is
in progress on memorials in some
36 localities in Hesse. Still to be com-
pleted is the destruction of two monu-
ments in the US Sector of Berlin, rec-
ommended by the Fine Arts Commit-
tee of the Kommandatura.

On the constructive side, German
peacetime activity in the cultural field
was resumed in December when US
Military Government Law No. 52,
“Blocking and Control of Property,”
was implemented to authorize the Min-
isters President of the states to li-
cense art dealers to resume business.
The implementation gave a definition
of “works of art, or cultural material
of value or importance” and provided
for a report and inventory of art ob-
jects valued at RM 10,000 or over.
This policy is facilitating the export
of art items (as licensed) for dollars
and provides a method of screening
art dealers’ stocks for looted material.

The peace treaties signed with Bul-
garia, Finland, Hungary, Italy, and
Roumania in February 1947 provide for
restitution to those nations of property
removed by the Germans through
force or under duress. This clause will
formalize the return of art to ex-enemy
satellites.

Interzonal exchange also is under-
way. A year ago, the US and British
Zones agreed to establish a system of
interzonal exchange of works of art
and other cultural material which be-
longed in one zone but had been evac-
uated to places for greater safety in
the other during the war. This policy,
intended to hasten the reassembling
of German collections under German
control, was put into effect in May,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
when the library of the Hamburg In-
stitute of Foreign Politics, which had
been in the custody of US Military Gov-
ernment at the Ministerial Collecting
Center in Berlin, was returned to Ham-
burg. The great bulk of British Zone
material had been sent back from US
Zone repositories by the end of the
year, and significant quantities of US
Zone material had been received from
the British Zone, Although no formal
agreement has been concluded with
the French and Soviet authorities,
some cultural material has been in-
formally exchanged with the French
Zone and 23 freight-car loads of books
and archives have been returned from
the US Zone to the Prussian State Li-
brary in Berlin.

More than 30 important art resti-
tution shipments also were made to
formerly occupied countries (Czecho-
slovakia, France, Greece, the Nether-
lands, Poland, and the Soviet Union)
during the pas year. In addition, sev-
eral shipments of cultural material,
ranging from priceless paintings to the

Austrian portion of the Kremsmuen-
ster Treasure, were received by US
Forces in Austria (USFA) on behalf of
the Austrian Government, and over
1,000 items (including world-famous
works by Cranach, Duerer, El Greco,
Murillo, Rembrandt, Tintoretto, Leo-
nardo da-Vinci, and Van Dyck) were
returned to Hungary. (Since the pro-
gram began late in August 1945, over
70 art shipments, excluding archives,
have been made to the above coun-
tries, as well as Belgium and Luxem-
bourg. France has received about
three-quarters of all art objects resti-
tuted.)

Since its activation on 1 March 1946,
the Offenbach Archival Depot has
shipped nearly two million books to
Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, Great
Britain (items taken from the Channel
Islands), Greece, the Netherlands, Po-
land, and the Soviet Union. In addition,
about 200 linear feet of archival ma-
terial has been returned to owner na-
tions. The Library of Congress Mission
has shipped some 150 cases of Nazi

records to Washington, and more than
a thousand cases of books, the prop-
erty of German learned societies in
Florence and Rome, were transferred
to the custody of the International
Union of Academies of Archaeology,
History, and History of Art in Rome,

Another important step in the policy
field of MFA&A which is being car-
ried out in 1947 was the issuance of
a directive circulated in the US Zone
last year requiring Collecting Points
to segregate and inventory all cultural
objects known or suspected to have
been the property of Jewish or other
former German nationals dispossessed
under the Nazi regime. Material in
this category includes all property
confiscated by the Nazis, whether or
not the owner retained his German
nationality. This was the first step
toward restitution of such “internal
loot”; the procedures governing its

actual return to its ex-owners have

not yet been established.
The former Collecting Point in Mar-

(continued on page 12)

After the war, only the exterior walls of Schwaebisch-Hall remained, In its dilapidated
condition, droftsman (left blow) found it necessary to reconstruct the rathaus complete-
ly on paper before work could begin. Today, more than two-thirds of the restoration
work is completed (right below).

Photos by Curlis

--- Page 10 ---
BREMEN MG POLICY OUTLINED

Thomas F. Dunn Tells People MG Will Advise, Aid, Guide New State;
Germans Responsible for Solving Problems, Establishing Democracy

Speaking to the people of Bremen
who soon will have an opportunity to
adopt a constitution and elect govern-
ment representatives, Mr. Thomas F.
Dunn, Director of Military Govern-
ment for Bremen, outlined in a radio
talk 22 April 1947 the problems for
which the German people are respons-
ible and the duties retained by Mili-
tary Government. The text of his
address follows.

ou have been told many times,

first by General Eisenhower and
later by Generals McNarney and Clay,
that the US occupation of your land
is temporary—that we do not wish to
stay any longer than is necessary for
your democratic elements to dem-
onstrate that they are capable of
controlling your government and
forcing it to do your bidding. The
work of Military Government will be
finished when you prove that you will
make it impossible ever again for one
man or one group of men to use the
rich resources of Germany’s man-
power and material wealth for the
destruction and the subjugation of
your neighbors...

The pattern for the occupation has
been laid down in general terms many
times and you have seen it being
carried out day by day through the
twenty-three months that have elapsed
since the capitulation in Rheims. Con-
trol of more and more of your own
affairs has been returned to you. Mil-
itary Government is withdrawing
progressively from the operation of
your affairs. More and more respon-
sibility for your own destiny is being
Jaid on your shoulders and more is to
come. Many of these responsibilities
you have accepted and discharged
well. Let it be understood that the
ultimate solutions of your problems
lie with you no matter how much help
or guidance we may give you, and
both we are giving freely. Let no one
think that our occupation was intend-
ed to find the answers for the problems
created for you by the Nazi reign of

5 MAY 1947

twelve years. We are here to aid you
but the answers will be yours within
the outline of democracy that we
have set up for you to follow.

Many controls have not been turned
back to you and some will not be for
a long time to come. How many and
how swiftly they are relinquished by
us will depend upon how well you
handle those that have been given to
you—how firmly you as people hold
them and use them to see that your
government serves humanity’s inter-
ests and yours.

New Freedom

The people of Bremen face a new
period of freedom, one already en-
joyed in the other three Laender.
Soon you will have an opportunity to
adopt a constitution—a set of rules to
govern your government and legis-
lation. Then you will elect men of
your own choosing to enforce these
tules. Soon the task of completing
the denazification which we have
started will become yours also. These
perhaps are the most important con-
trols that will be entrusted to you in
the near future.

So there may be no confusion in
your minds as you come to con-
template the responsibilities that are
in sight, I wish to review the situation
as it stands today as to what re-
sponsibilities are German and which
are retained by Military Government.
Those that are yours have been del-
egated to your elected representatives
and are discharged through normal
German agencies which they have
under their control. The controls
retained by Military Government are
exercised through these same officials
and agencies. In the main, Military
Government’s controls are in the form
of policy directives as, for instance,
those pertaining to the distribution of
coal. The present orders from Military
Government are that coal will be
supplied to essential services only.
The actual allocation within these
services is purely a German govern-

7

mental matter. The transportation,
the guarding, and the distribution of
coal is completely in the hands of
your own people.

In general the whole field of eco-
nomics has been turned back to Ger-
man control. Through German chan-
nels Land Bremen bids for its share of
what is available on a bizonal level,
arranges for its own transport and
makes its own distribution. Even on
the question of production Military
Government has retained only policy
control. What happens to German
products made from German raw
material after they have left the
factories is purely your affair. If they
find their way into the black market
you should ask yourselves, not
Military Government, why this is so.

German Obligation

With the establishment of the Ger-
man Executive Committees for Eco-
nomics, Food and Agriculture, Com-
munication, and Transport and the
German Joint Committees for Finance
and Civil Services, responsibility for
the solution of the day-to-day prob-
lems in these fields has been placed
upon the Germans.

When difficulties arise they should
be placed before the appropriate Ger-
man authorities for solution and not
referred to Military Government. For
example, if an allocation of potatoes
is not delivered as scheduled, the
Minister of Food and Agriculture of
the recipient Land should take the
matter 1p directly with his colleagues
in the Land from which the shipment

was‘ have been made. If satisfaction
can'.t be obtained, the matter
should be discussed between

the respective Ministers President,
and if a solution is still not found, the
problem should be laid before the
German Executive Committee for
Food and Agriculture at Stuttgart.
Only in the event that all of these
steps prove unsuccessful should the
matter then be referred to Land
Military Governments for assistance.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Similarly, if questions arise regard-
ing the supply of materials or power,
the Land Minister of Economics con-
cerned should attempt to find a so-
lution, referring the matter to the
respective Ministers President if ap-
propriate, and finally laying the prob-
lem before the German Executive
Commitee for Economics at Minden.

The same principles will obtain for
the solution of everyday problems in
the other bizonal fields. In all cases
the Land Minister of that field should
first attempt to find the solution and
then, if unsuccessful, lay the problem
before the appropriate German bi-
zonal committee.

In the field of Public Safety, large
responsibilities rest with the German
police force. It is responsible for your
safety, for public order, and for en-
forcing German laws. If law enforce-
ment does not satisfy you, complain
to your elected representatives. They
have the power to initiate remedies.

The control of wages, hours, and
working conditions, the formation of
workers councils, trade unions, and
certain employers’ organizations, and
the operation of labor courts for con-
ciliation and arbitration machinery
lies entirely in German hands. Even
the wages of Germans employed by
Military Government are fixed not by
Military Government but by the Ar-
beitsamt. It is German law under
which workers must register and
which governs their placement and
transfers, and it is the German Police
and the German courts which enforce
these laws. Military Government re-
tains the right to have available the
labor the occupation forces require
and to see that Military Government
policies are carried out.

Religious and Cultural Affairs are
entirely in German hands under
Military Government supervisic '. The
operations of local governmer. are
almost entirely in German hands as
well. Military Government suggests,
advises, and consults by means of
conferences with the Buergermeister
and other local officials, but unless a
matter of MG policy is involved, it
does not tell the Germans to do one
thing rather than another. It is true
that certain principles have been
established by Military Government

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

regarding the drawing up of local
constitutions, such as the inclusion of
guarantees of individual right, but no
attempt is made to dictate specific
provisions of the constitution.

Exceptions Noted

Politically you are entirely free ex-
cept that Nazism, nationalism, and
militarism will not be allowed to
obtain a hold upon your government.
Military Government is here to pro-
tect you from these dangers. Other-
wise you are free to form any political
parties you wish, hold any political
meetings you wish, take any political
stand that you wish, providing it is
not inimicable to the general pattern
for democracy laid down by Military
Government and you may elect to
public office anyone you desire under
your own rules so long as he is not
a Nazi. With the establishment of the
new Land Government which will be
of your own choosing you may dictate
to it any legislation you feel will
benefit you.

In the field of Public Health and
Welfare, Military Government’s pri-
mary responsibility is to restore Ger-
man agencies concerned with the care
of the indigent. The operation of
these services is entirely a German
matter. Military Government is giving
to this program in many ways, as for
instance, the distribution of penicillin
and insulin for treatment of Germans.

In the field of Law, Military Govern-
ment is concerned only with relation-
ships involving the occupying powers
and the Germans. Disputes among
Germans are to be settled in German
courts. Problems such as probate of
estates, marriages, divorces, guardian-
ships, trustees, transfer of real pro-
perty, etc., are matters entirely within
German jurisdiction. MG courts are
concerned only with crimes committed
against MG laws. In other words, the
handling of normal legal matters per-
taining to the life of the people has
been returned completely to German
control.

The imposition and collection of
taxes also are German matters. Since
November 1946, responsibility for the
control of property seized from the
Nazis has been the duty of the Fi-
nance President. Even the seizure of

8

Nazi-owned property is a responsibil-
ity of the Amt fiir Vermégenskon-
trolle which is under his jurisdiction;
the implementation of MG Laws 8, 52,
and 53 has been given to this agency.

Among the controls which have not
been turned over to the German people
are those pertaining to education,
publishing, press, radio, theater, and
the entertainment field in general. The
opportunity for propaganda by the
Nazis through these media is too
great in your midst but even in this
field steps have been taken towards
self-determination. Your newspaper is
not subject to censorship, its editors
are free to discuss any subject they
wish and to give you any information
you wish. Military Government re-
serves the right to insist that your
press be accurate and not used for
propaganda purposes.

Recapitulation

To recapitulate, Military Govern-
ment’s principal mission now is to
advise, aid, and guide you in establish-
ing a democracy within your Land.
Generally speaking, control of your
own affairs has in a large measure
been returned to you. Military
Government stands ready to recall it
if it is used in an undemocratic
maneuver. But that will not happen if
you observe the guiding principle of
democracy: that government and the
state exist only to serve the people—
and all of the people—not just one
small and select group.

The suffering that has followed the
war is a price which the German
people have had to pay to regain con-
trol of their own affairs. Take care
that you don’t lose it again. Keep
yourselves informed. See that your
newspapers give you the information
you require. Then use this knowledge
to impose your will upon your govern-
ment. Don’t permit yourselves to be-
come its servants. Make it serve you.

Uniforms Restricted

Effective 1 June 1947, the sale of
outer uniform clothing as prescribed
for civilian wear will be discontinued,
according to EUCOM circular No. 15
of 7 April 1947. The civilian uniform
will not be required for wear after
1 June 1947.

5 MAY 1947

--- Page 12 ---
fhe natural springs of Germany,

famous as far back as the year
59 A.D. once more may attract
thousands of visitors after the, effects
of war have passed.

The defeat of Germany knocked
this million-dollar industry down to
only two or three percent of its
former figure, but continued interest
in Germany's health resorts and belief
in the curative powers of their waters
indicate that they will again play a
major role in Germany's economy.

Bavaria, especially, has increased
its wealth through the exploitation of
such watering places and health areas.
In fact, its resorts have become so
famous that according to German
authorities the income from them be-
fore the war exceeded that from any
other industry in Bavaria. The value
of this business in Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden also reached a
high level before 1939.

It is estimated that 11 of the prin-
cipal spas of Bavaria accommodated
an average of 200,000 summer visitors
yearly, from 1936 through 1938, and
that these tourists spent some
RM 55,000,000 annually for rooms,
treatments, and entertainment. The
entire tourist trade of Bavaria reached
100 million dollars annually in normal
times. War damage and the influx of,
refuges, expellees, and bombed-out
city dwellers who needed living space
were the major factors reducing this
one-time enormous business to only
a fraction of its former value.

5 MAY 1947

‘

Claims for the curative powers of
Germany's springs sometimes may be
disputed by health authorities. But
according to literature and legend, the
baths have cured ills ranging from
asthma to anemia. As far back as
1547, a physician, Dr. Ruland, named
the ingredients of the mineral waters
of Kissingen and wrote in his
“Balnearium Restauratum” of the
large number of illnesses treated
successfully by the use of these
waters.

Today’s German baths (Baeder), how-
ever, offer more inducements to health
improvement than mere curative
waters. There is skiing, mountain-

climbing, golf, horseback riding, tennis,
and a number of other sports near the
comfortable, often luxurious hotels. A
social life of dancing, music, and

entertainment also is usually a part
of the German spa.

Best known of Germany's baths are
those of Bavaria where the largest
resorts—Bad Kissingen, Bad Reichen-
hall, Bad Brueckenau, and Bad Steben
—are operated by the Land Govern-
ment. Reichenhall and Brueckenau
have suffered bomb damage to some
extent, while much of Kissingen has
been requisitioned by the occupation
forces.

Most famous of the Bavarian re-
sorts is Bad Kissingen, internationally
known for its six different mineral
springs, elaborately-equipped hotels,
baths, and places of amusement.
Modern Bad Kissingen was born in
1736 when Bishop Friedrich Karl of
Schoenborn ordered his architect to
erect dams in the Saale River to pro-
tect the adjoining flower gardens of
the spa. An old spring of Roman times
was rediscovered in this same year.
A first list of visitors and regulations
was issued in 1741. The regulations
provided that guests must pay certain
fees, and that reserved accommodations.
must be paid for one month in
advance. A physician was on duty
to give his advice gratis.

In 1769, the springs and facilities
were taken over by the Duke of
Wuerzburg from the city of Kissingen
to provide better accommodations
and bathing facilities for the ever-
increasing number of visiting nobility.
Public baths and a number of hotels
started operations in 1838, and addi-

--- Page 13 ---
tional springs were discovered and
developed during the following years.

King Ludwig I of Bavaria gave Kis-
singen its modern appearance, making
it one of the most up-to-date resorts
in the world. Emperor Alexander of

Russia, King Ludwig of Bavaria,
Empress Elizabeth of Austria, Bis-
marck, and many other prominent men
and women were frequent visitors to
Bad Kissingen giving it the name
“diplomats” spa. Three drinking
wells, three bathing pools, and some
500 bathrooms are provided.

Other Bavarian spas are patterned
largely along the same lines as Bad
Kissingen, with variations as to cures
claimed, variety of waters, and
manner of treatment.

The strong salt springs of Bavaria’s
Bad Reichenhall drew health seekers
in prehistoric times. The village of
Reichenhall has been for many years
the most important salt-producing
city of Bavaria. While at first facilities
for mineral-water baths were the prin-
cipal attraction to visitors, soon
inhaling halls and pneumatic chambers
were erected, making Reichenhall the
most important German center for the
treatment of all lung diseases. The spa
is located in a valley, surrounded by
wood-covered hills and protected
from winds.

Also famous for a water-curing
treatment for lung disorders is Bad
Woerishofen, discovered by the priest,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Se

NS

—

Sebastian Kneipp. Kneipp was born
in 1821, the son of a poor village
weaver, who later entered the
monastery of the Dominicans at
Woerishofen. Kneipp is said to have
cured himself of a lung disease by a
cold water treatment, later using his
methods successfully on friends and
fellow students. His reported successes
soon became famous, bringing people
to Woerishofen from all over the
world.

When prospectors drilled for oil at
Bad Wiessee in 1904 they discovered
the newest of Bavaria’s famous baths—
a sulphur spring whose waters
contain iodine. The discovery led to
the establishment of a spa which ex-
panded so rapidly that by 1929
facilities were available for 150,000
treatments a year. The Bad Wiessee
mineral springs are reported to be
unique in the world, with the highest
iodine and sulphur content of any
waters of Germany. Another spa
noted for its high iodine water
content is Bad Toelz where sufferers
from heart disease find relief.

Because of the iron content of the
waters, the springs of Bad Brueckenau
are supposed to be excellent in the
treatment of kidney ailments and
anemia. Persons who have patronized
this resort include Friedrich Wil-

helm II; Friedrich Wilhelm, Prince of
Prussia; the Dukes of Hesse, and the
Earls of Reuss.

Bad Steben in the Franconian forest
is the site of springs described as

possessing strong “iron-sour waters
particularly adaptable for female
guests . . . The waters have the
strongest radio activity in Europe...
Under-developed youths are benefited
by these waters as well as persons
with anemia and heart diseases. Poor
appetite, malaria, and diseases of the
stomach are successfully treated.”

Wildbad Kreuth claims a “well-
deserved reputation for its lower air
pressure which causes an improved
blood circulation in the skin“ and
“diseases of the nerves and the
stomach as well as the muscles are
benefited, and rheumatic and arthri-
tic conditions improved." Bad Aibling
widely advertises its mud-baths, and
at Bad Neustadt the mud-baths are,
advocates say, justly celebrated for
their healing qualities.

In Hesse, Wiesbaden draws much
of its fame as a fashionable center for
the spring and fall tourist trade,
offering fine hotels, musical events,
and sports programs for the enjoy-
ment of its guests. Before the war, an
average of 10,000 persons annually
sought the healthful benefits of the
city’s mineral waters, according to the
local municipal bath administration.

With one exception, all of Wies-
baden’s 24 mineral wells contain hot
water ranging up to a temperature of
112 degrees Fahrenheit. These waters
have been taken for the relief of
rheumatism, gout, nervous diseases,
throat, and intestinal ailments.

(continued on page 15)

eS

5 MAY 1947

--- Page 14 ---
PRESS and RADIO COMME

Press on Foreign
Ministers Progress

The slow pace of the Council of
Foreign Ministers Meeting in Mos-
cow in reaching any agreement on
major German and Austrian peace
problems, the reasons for it, and what
developments there may be for the
future are receiving considerable dis-
cussion in the American press,

Washington Post columnist Barnet
Nover noted that during the “four
weeks of strenuous debate at Mos-
cow, the Big Four find themselves al-
most as far from an agreement on the
German problem as on the day the
present conference began” although
few minor points have been disposed
of and the respective points of view
“have been given a thorough airing.”

He added, however, that “even if
nothing happens between now and
the adjournment date to break the
present deadlock, that would not ne-
cessarily mean that the Moscow
Meeting was a dead loss." He pointed
out the time and effort consumed in
bringing about a final agreement on
satellite treaties, and added: “The
German problem is infinitely more
important, more complicated and
more explosive. In fact, neither
Marshall nor any other members of
the American Delegation left for Mos-
cow in any optimistic mood as to
what would be accomplished there...
Under the happiest and best of cir-
cumstances, they did not expect the
German problem to be solved at one
conference or two. They have assum-
ed from the beginning that it will
be the subject of Four-Power dis-
cussions for a long time to come.”

Need for Patience

The Americans have learned, Nover
said, that “in dealing with the
Russians, the indispensable need is
patience’ and Marshall is demon-
strating that at Moscow where the
Russians “have resorted once again
to their old familiar tactics of delay
through endless repetition of their
demands."

5 MAY 1947

St. Louis Star Times said while “the
tone of dismal hopelessness has per-
vaded most of the news from Mos-

cow, there are, however, at least a
few indications that things may not
be quite so bad as they seem. For
example, Marshall suggested a com-
promise on reparations, and, while
discussing the form of a new gov-
ernment for Germany, he observed
that debate seemed to be largely
about definitions...

The real safeguard, of course, is a
vigorous, vigilant democracy which
is not tempted to the extremes of the
left or the right by an unbearably
weak economy. (Thus) the best in-
terests of Russia and the Western
Powers would be served... The Ger-
man settlement, of course, depends
utterly on the achievement of a gen-
uine working agreement between
Russia and the West. The prospect
does not offer the foundation for un-
bridled optimism, but one can be
grateful there is at least a glimmering
of hope.”

Philadelphia Inquirer said that
“Practically nothing has been accom-
plished“ because the Russians are
practicing the “dreary technique that
has seldom varied through the two
years since Nazi Germany collapsed..
(But) a vicious German settlement
would be worse than the conditions
which now prevail. If we have to
wait out the Russians then we'll
have to wait them out until they show
a disposition to agree to something
and stick to it.”

“Voice of America” correspondent
in Moscow, David Penn, noted that
“in a body where the rule of una-
nimity reigns, movement must come
from all sides — from four and not
three of its Four Power membership.
Inflexibility of a single delegation
and its refusal to amalgamate its
position into the common accord can
make — and has made — it necessary
time and again to pass over issues
without a concert of views.”

However, in reviewing the con-
flicting positions of the Four Powers
on major questions, Penn pointed

i1

out D
Council meetings, the Md6v erhent to-
ward agreement “on any one of these
issues would probably bring a move-
ment on all of them. It may not
even be immediately perceptible.
When it is felt, however, it is usually
the beginning of a chain reaction that
brings with it important decisions,
where a few hours earlier there was
only indecision and disagreement.”

Mutual Broadcasting System corre-
spondent Robert Hurleigh saw three
alternatives for Marshall in view of
deadlock: “He may throw up his
hands and go home—a most unlikely
move; he may suggest that the diplo-
mats take up the undiscussed matters
on the agenda, a step opposed by
Russia, or he may try to get together
with Premier Stalin in an effort to
break the deadlock.”

Pledge Free Press

The American Society of Newspaper
Editors has pledged itself to continue
“with full vigor its effort to promote
peace through attainment of free flow
of information and opinion among
nations.”

The editors, in a resolution adopted
at a final session of the Society's

_ three-day convention in Washington,

pointed out that the “United States,
as a foremost exponent and benefi-
ciary of freedom of expression, should
continue to promote this freedom on
an international basis by taking the
lead toward appropriate agreements
with other peoples. Therefore, if the
United Nations, or other means of
multilateral action, fails to produce
results in reasonable time, this society
urges that the US Government make
a beginning through negotiation
of bilateral treaties with individual
nations.”

Acting Secretary of State Acheson
last week recalled US efforts to pro-
mote freedom of information through
the US Commission on Freedom of
Press and the UN Educational, Scien-
tific, and Cultural Organization.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Restoration (cont'd from p. 6)

burg was turned over to the German
authorities in September as a major
repository for German-owned books
and archives, and the art objects pre-
viously stored there were transferred
to the Wiesbaden Collecting Point.
New Sub-Collecting Points were estab-
lished during the following month in
Nuremberg and Bamberg. The extent
to which the work of restoring cul-
tural material to its rightful owners
has been speeded up during the past
year is shown by the fact that the
great Collecting Point at Munich re-
ceived nearly 320,000 art objects (ex-
clusive of books and archives) and
released about 150,000 between 1 April
1946 and 1 April 1947. A year ago it
had received 202,000 art objects but
had released only 33,000. The Wies-
baden Collecting Point received about
180,000 art items, and released some
21,000 during the past year, whereas
from the beginning of the program in
the summer of 1945 until April 1946 it
received (excluding 250,000 items of
Wiesbaden museum property already
in the building when Military Govern-
ment took it over) only about 34,000,
and released approximately 1,200.

On 1 March 1946, when the Offen-
bach Archival Depot was activated as
the sole collecting point for unsorted
library material in the US Zone, it con-
tained more than 1,840,000 items.
Since then it has received upwards of
701,000 volumes, and has released
about 1,910,000. Most of these books
were restituted to owner nations, no-
tably France and the Netherlands, but
some were loaned to the American
Joint Distribution Committee for use
in displaced persons camps, others
were returned to German institutions,
and certain Nazi material was requi-
sitioned by the Library of Congress
Mission for shipment to Washington.
Somewhat more than 630,000 items
remain in the depot, over one-sixth of
them crated and ready for restitution.
More than 500,000 volumes, most of
them written in Hebrew or by Jewish
authors, are awaiting a decision on
restitution policy. About two-fifths of
these books are still unidentifiable. In
addition to processing over 2,500,000

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

items of library material written in 35
different languages, the Offenbach De-
pot was made the sole collecting point
for Jewish religious material, and its
facilities will be used for the distri-
bution of some 5,700 church bells from
the US Zone which were removed for
scrap during the war and are now
stored at Hamburg in the British Zone.

As of 16 March the “Official List of
Protected Structures of Installations
of Architectural, Artistic, Historical or
Cultural Importance in the US Zone of
Germany” was issued. It was based
on the original “SHAEF List of Monu-
ments and Other Buildings and Sites
Exempt from Military Use in Ger-
many,” but deletes certain antique
tuins which appeared on the earlier
list because special military measures
for their protection are now considered
unnecessary. Other buildings may be
added to the current list by application
to MFA&A offices in the various
states. All cultural monuments on the
protected list which are now utilized
by American military or civilian units
will be released to the appropriate
German agencies as soon as possible.

MFA&A officers have not partic-
ipated directly in the reconstruction
of war-damaged cultural monuments
since the early post-combat days, and
all such rebuilding is proceeding at
German expense and often with Ger-
man volunteer labor. In view of the
extreme shortage of raw materials
and skilled labor, and the extraordi-
narily long and bitter winter, which
greatly hampered all types of outdoor
work, the German authorities have
made considerable progress in the re-
pair of their historic buildings. Of the
452 cultural monuments inspected as
of 1 April 1946, 317 were found to
have been damaged in the war, none
had been completely repaired, and in
nearly three-fifths of them reconstruc-
tion had not even been begun. A year
later some 1,638 buildings had been
inspected, of which 891 proved to be
damaged. About 12 percent of these
war-scarred monuments had been com-
pletely restored, and work was in prog-
ress on an additional 31 percent.
Among the famous buildings in which
repairs are being made or were com-
pleted during the past year are St. Le-

12

onhard’s Church in Frankfurt, St. Pe-
ter's Chapel and the Martha Church
in Nuremberg, the Frauenkirche, Ger-
man Museum, Amalienburg Residenz,
and St. Michael and St. John Nepomuk
Churches in Munich, the Hermitage
in Bayreuth, and the Cloister of the
Holy Cross in Regensburg.

The return of German-owned art
and library material from the respos-
itories has assisted greatly in the
rehabilitation of numerous German
cultural institutions. Notable in this
respect was the return, in April 1946, |
of 23 freight-car loads of books and
archives to the Prussian State Library
in Berlin. They had been found by the
Third Army in Czechoslovakia, and
were shipped from the Offenbach Ar-
chival Depot. No less than 55 tons of
library material belonging to the Uni-
versity of Frankfurt and the Nurem-
berg Municipal Library were returned
in September. Other cultural material,
ranging from statues and paintings to
city archives, has been sent back to
owner institutions throughout the US
Zone. By April 1947 half a dozen im-
portant libraries and 30 museums had
reopened, though some of them were
still housed in temporary buildings.

Noteworthy also is the fact that
there have been literally dozens of
German-sponsored art exhibitions in
cities and towns all over the zone
during the past year. Their subject
matter ranged from German and Dutch
masterpieces of the Renaissance
through the work of contemporary
painters to modern applied art.

Berlin-Munich Train

A special semi-weekly Diesel train
service between Berlin and Munich
has been set up, with trains leaving
Berlin every Monday and Thursday,
and leaving Munich every Tuesday
and Friday. The trip takes about
18 hours each way, with Heidelberg,
Stuttgart, and Augsburg listed as
intermediate stopping points.

Reservations from Berlin may be
made through the OMGUS Travel
Clearance Bureau. This service is for
duty personnel only.

5 MAY 1947

--- Page 16 ---
Against Guilt Denial

m a preface to two very long articles

which cover the four-columned
second page the American licensed
Der Tagesspiegel observes that “...an
aggressive tendency has... developed
in Germany to charge that the rest of
the world ... has sponsored the
Hitler regime and discouraged Ger-
man resistance circles.” In order to
cast light on the affair the Tages-
spiegel carries the voice of one re-
presentative of these circles and has
answered it through Walter Gong,
South German correspondent for the
paper.

The first article, the author of which
is Dr. Werner Ruhemann, denies the
guilt of the German people stating
that “not the people but their govern-
ment was guilty.” The article here
refers to the elections of 1933 when
it states that “almost half of the
population tried to vote ‘for the right
side’... After 1933 every resistance
became senseless — a fact which only
can: be estimated by Germans,”
claims the author.

Stating then that the illegal fighters
were step by step liquidated, the
article notes that their only hope was
with the foreign countries and that
only continuous disillusions had in-
creasingly limited the number of these
people. Here the article calls attention
to such events as the entry of Ger-
man soldiers into the Rhineland,
reintroduction of conscription, the
Munich agreement, and claims that
“it would not have been too difficult
to extinguish the flare in central
Europe in the middle thirties. But
nothing happened.”

Diplomats Charged

“On the contrary” charges ‘the
article, and takes note of the fact
that the foreign diplomatic re-
presentatives took part in festivals
and demonstrations of the Nazis and
were “on friendly terms with them.”
Other examples cited are the late

5. MAY 1947

Neville Chamberlain's trip to Godes-
berg and the attitude of foreign
diplomats toward the persecution of
Jews in Germany “when they delayed
the exit permits for these persecuted
people.”

“But these circles which, because of
their lenient attitude made possible
the catastrophe of 1933, will try to
blame now the entire German popu-
lation,” notes the article charging then
that “this is a national socialist
method.” The author here refers to
the fact that Goebbels, too, was of the
opinion that not the government but
the people, who have placed their
confidence in the government, must
be blamed for the final collapse.

Immoral Demand

Noting that the Germans were under
the sway of three types of govern-
ment — the Emperor, Weimar, and
Hitler — all of which maltreated the
country, the article admits that “it
is only right that the Allies want to
keep a keen eye on the fourth type
of government.” The country also
promises to make good the damage
it has caused, observes the article
noting then however “that it is also
supposed to wear a placard with the
inscription ‘I am guilty for every-
thing.’ This is an immoral demand.”

Stating that “after 1933 there was
no possibility for the Germans” to
overthrow the government, and all
attempts to reach this aim ended in
the concentration camp, the article
notes in this connection that “help
had to come from the outside,” and
refers to German efforts to call the
attention of the foreign countries to
the conditions in Germany . . . but
“these people had to learn that they
were not believed.”

“Nothing can save the world but a
universal feeling of remorse,” con-
cludes the author in citing this state-
ment in a book by Victor Gollancz
entitled “In Darkest Germany”.

Refuting here the various arguments
voiced above, the Tagesspiegel

13

line the fact that the German people

neglected to show opposition to
Hitler “with the assistance of the
majority which voted against him.
One must reject the attempt to bring
the German voting results together
on the same platform with the Ger-
man resistance,” says the paper.

Referring to the visits of foreign
statesman to Nazi Germany the paper
states that this fact has already been
used by the former defendants in the
past Nuremberg main war criminals
tribunal and that the court has
rebutted such arguments because the
court could not find out “what the
criminal proceedings in Germany had
to do with the necessary diplomatic
relations with Germany.”

If the other countries had, as it is
demanded by various groups now,
turned their back to the Nazis and
had intervened in Germany, this
would have been a very good reason
for the Nazis to camouflage their
intentions with phrases such as “a
peacefully-developing country has
been assailed by the agressive aims
of her neighbors,” notes the Tages-
spiegel continuing that “a concrete
cause must be given in order to be
able to launch a police intervention.”
First one had to wait for the crime...
“and that is what has been done”
in the case of Germany.

Courage Lacking

Hereafter the paper takes up the
argument that resistance was senseless
after 1933 and claims that this “was
senseless only because it was too
weak ... The recognition that at that
time we had too little experience in
democracy, too little courage, and
political instinct ... coupled with
the determination to supervise closely
our government in the future seems
to me not only more useful .. . but
also more honorable . . . for the Ger-
man national sentiment,” declares the
Tagesspiegel correspondent.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
After having referred to the moral
attitude of the German population
during the war, and their enthusiasm
for the progressing compaign the
paper declares in conclusion that of
course it would be rather profitable
and popular’ to blame the ‘foreign
countries for everything “but thereby
we should do a bad service to the
German people.” When recognizing
our responsibility for the past we have
also gained a chance to have the
responsibility for the future. We
needn't wear a placard saying that
we are guilty for everything but we
also should be careful not to show
the inscription “the others must be
blamed for everything.”

Hunger Charge False

In reply to a statement by the
Frankfurt Health Office that citizens
of Frankfurt were receiving but 1014
calories, and that 50 percent of them
were undernourished and each had
lost between 20 and 30 pounds, Dr.
James R. Newman, Director of Mil-
itary Government, Hesse, announced
that the regular monthly food survey
for the month of March (conducted
under joint Military Government and
German auspices) revealed that the
official Hessian ration remained at the
prescibed 1550 calories. Any state-
ment that normal consumers received
put 1014 calories is absurd, and could
not be based upon any accurate,
scientific check.

Systematic surveys by responsible
German and MG officials reveal that
during the past month the average
consumer in Frankfurt did not re-
ceive less than the official ration. In-
vestigation has shown that the nor-
mal consumer in Frankfurt, during the
past ration period, received 183 calo-
ries, on an average, over the official
ration. Ration periods are determined
on the basis of 28 days. Occasional
distribution delays leads the unin-
formed observer to make unfounded
guesses on the basis of a one-week
distribution. Any shortages incurred
because of these delays are made nutri-
tion experts, submitted to the same
28-day ration period.

Adults Gain Weight

A survey, conducted by German
nutrition experts, submitted to the
Public Health Division, Office of Mil-
itary Government, Hesse, reveals
that since September 1946, the aver-
age adult German male in Frankfurt
has gained five pounds and the adult
female has gained two pounds. The
picture looks

over-all nutritional

better every month. For example,
there was 1.3 percent less nutritional
edema in February 1947 than in Sep-
tember 1946. This decrease in edema,
coupled with the rise in weight indi-
cates that the weight gains are

healty.

Trade Policy Formed

The following procedure has now
been agreed by Finance Division,
British Military Government, in con-
sultation with Trade and Commerce
Branch, OMGUS, and the Joint Ex-
port/Import Agency, for handling the
foreign trade of the Combined Zones,

On the Reichsmark side a German
office for the internal payments for
foreign trade will be set up at Frank=—
furt for the Combined British/US Zones’
which, in conjunction with the Ger-
man banks, will handle all the Reichs-
mark financing of foreign trade, under
the control of the Joint Foreign
will be done through accounts with
foreign banks.

These accounts are in the name
of Military Government of Germany
(US/UK) Joint Export/IImport Agency
but are operated by the Joint Foreign
Exchange Agency in Berlin. Accounts
have so far been established with:
Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
(opening balance one million four
hundred and forty-four thousand dol-
lars) and Bank of England, London
(opening balance nineteen million
three hundred and forty thousand
pounds). Offset accounts have been
opened with Banque Nationale de
Belgique, Brussels, and De Neder-
landsche Bank, Amsterdam. "Cate-
gory A” imports will be handled by
the British and US Government direct.

| The German newspaper, Sued-Ost Kurier, of Bad Reichenhall in Bavaria, satirizes the food situation. |

Breakfast

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Lunch

14

ev

Dinner

5 MAY 1947

--- Page 18 ---
COAL (cont'd from p. 3)

sponsibility and allay their fears con-
cerning their own and Germany's
future. A tremendous effort has been
and is being made to repair and re-
place the worn and damaged equip-
ment of the mines.

Constant pressure has been main-
tained to secure from Germany's li-
mited steel production an adequate
supply for the manufacture of mining
equipment and maintenance items.

But still much remains to be done
if coal production is to continue to
tise. A definite program for the pro-
vision of adequate housing for miners
in the Ruhr area must be carried
through. Food and materials for issue
under the “points scheme” must be
maintained. Sufficient stocks of food
must be supplied to fulfill the miners’
ration, and equally important, to fulfill
the declared ration for the miners’
families. The definite program of coal
exports in relation to German con-
sumption has been publicized to coun-
teract the damage being done by false
rumors concerning the percentage of
German coal production destined for
export. The problem of civilian space
heating must be solved for the 1947
and 1948 winter season. Sufficient
steel and other materials must be
made available to the mining indus-
try. Adequate transport and regu-
larity in car supply must be provided
by a coordinated program of rebuilding
and construction of railroad equip-
ment. An adequate supply of power
must be assured for mining and its
supporting industries.

Because of its location with respect
to transport facilities, its physical ca-
pacity for greatly increased produc-
tion, and its volume and quality of
fuel, an important factor in economic
recovery in Western Europe lies in
increased production from the Ruhr
area and increase in transport capa-
city to consumers.

Time Change in May

The Coordinating Comittee at its
119th meeting in Berlin 23 April 1947
agreed to introduce double summer
time throughout Germany at 0300
hours 11 May 1947 when time will be
advanced one hour.

5 MAY 1947

Health Resorts (cont'd from p. 10)

Of Wiesbaden's prewar total of 73
hotels and boarding houses, largely
supported by guests visiting mineral
wells, 22 were completely destroyed
and 34 have been taken over by the
occupation forces leaving 17 available
for the German population. Of 18 pre-
occupation hotels possessing their
own mineral bath facilities, one is
now open for indigenous use. An
estimated RM 5,000,000 is estimated
as the war damage done to the Wies-
baden mineral water industry.

In addition to Wiesbaden’s resour-
ces as a health resort, Hesse possesses
mineral water and bathing facilities
at Bad Schwalbach, whose
springs are used for the relief of
female ailments; Bad Soden, where
sulphur baths are taken for general
internal complaints; Bad Nauheim,
popular as a cure center for heart
diseases; and Bad Wildungen, visited
for the treatment of kidney disorders,

iron

The most important health resort in
Wuerttemberg-Baden is Bad Mergent-
heim, where the merchants and towns-
people once depended very largely
on the annual influx of guests for
their livelihood. Today it is a hospital
center under the supervision of the
Wuerttemberg-Baden Military Govern-
ment, Public Health Branch, and the
German Health Ministry. Only one
hotel is now being used as a health
resort. Other health centers in this
Land are located at Bad Cannstatt,
Bad Bool, Bad Ueberlingen, Bad
Dietzenbach, Radium Solbad Bad
Rappenau, and Bad Wimpfen.

Realizing the importance of all
these centers as a part of the German
economy, Military Government has
set aside a small number of accommo-
dations in each resort for indigenous
sick persons. A doctor's certificate is
now necessary to obtain a room and
treatment. Political persecutees and
displaced persons receive preferential
treatment in accommodations, but no
one can extend his visit over the
maximum of four weeks.

15

Interzonal Travel

Soviet border control authorities
are being instructed that any German
from the US Zone with a work docu-
ment properly validated by the Ar-
beitsamt of his place of residence will
be admitted to the Soviet Zone in
order that he may report to the Kom-
mandatura for Soviet validation of his
work document, and that he is per-
mitted to re-enter the US Zone on the
basis of the work document validated
by the Soviet Authorities. If the Soviet
Authorities refuse to validate the
work document, they will provide the
German with any document necessary
to assume his unhindered return to his
zone of residence.

The US border control authorities
will be instructed to admit anyone to
the US Zone who has a work docu-
ment validated by the Soviet author-
ities and to permit the individual to
return to the Soviet Zone when the
work document has been validated by
the Arbeitsamt in the US Zone. If the
Arbeitsamt refuses to validate the
work document they will supply the
German worker with a statement to
that effect for presentation to the
border authorities to assure unhinder-
ed passage out of the US Zone,

The work document required by
paragraph 3, Control Council Directive
No. 42, will be validated by the Soviet
Kommandatura in the Soviet Zone and
by the German Arbeitsamt in the US
Zone,

New Trains Announced

Rail service for authorized personnel
in the US Zone is expected to increase
approximately 33 percent when Mili-
tary Government assumes control of
the Zone’s military railway service on
4 May.

The new services will feature day-
light trains between Berlin and Frank-
furt with connections to Wesermuende,
a morning train between Frankfurt
and Munich with connection to Gar-
misch-Partenkirchen, a new daylight
train between Frankfurt and Weser-
muende, and a through sleeping-car
service between Berlin and Munich,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Unit Publications, AG Cir 8, Hq.
EUCOM, 1 April 1947.

Leaves, Passes and Travel in the
European Command, AG Cir 9, Hq.
EUCOM, 2 April 1947,

Ice—Issues and Sale, AG Cir 12, Hq.
EUCOM, 4 April 1947. Procedures
for the procurement, determination of
requirements, and distribution of wet
ice within the European Command.

EUCOM Motion Picture Service;
Army Exchange Rations and Allow-
ances; Uniform Clothing and Acces-
sory Ration Cards, AG Cir 15, Hq.
EUCOM, 7 April 1947.

Property Accountability in the Euro-
pean Command, AG Cir 14, Hq.
EUCOM, 7 April 1947.

Publications and Blank Form; Re-
scissions; Mailing of Parcels to Unit-
ed States, AG Cir 17, Hq. EUCOM,
17 April 1947.

Safety Program for US Sector of
Berlin, AG Cir 81, Hq. Berlin Com-
mand, OMGUS, 17 April 1947.

Quarterly Submission of Unit Chan-
ges, AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq. EUCOM,
17 April 1947.

Assistance from US Military Sources

to Civilian Agencies and Personnel;
Fees and Allowances of Civilian Wit-
nesses, Reporters, and Interpreters in
US Army Courts-Martial, AG Cir 18,
18 April 1947.
Liability of Non-US Military Person-
nel or Agencies, AG Cir 1, EUCOM-
SOP 100, 18 April 1947, Accounting
for lost, damaged, or destroyed prop-
erty, 7 April 1947, is changed by
the addition of Section VII, Liability
of Non-US Military Personnel or
Agencies. All civilian employees of
tha War Department who are on
duty in the European Command, will
be held responsible in the same man-
ner as military personnel for prop-
erty issued to them with or without
receipt, or for which they have been
designated as responsible or account-
able officers.

Report of payment or non-payment
of Enlisted Personnel; Travel Orders,
AG Cir 82, Hq. Berlin Command,
OMGUS, 21 April 1947.

Individual Transportation in the
European Command, AG Cir 19, Hq.
EUCOM, 21 April 1947. Individual
railway passenger transportation; in-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

dividual motor vehicle transportation;
individual air passenger transpor-
tation. -

Implementation of Control Council
Directive No. 42, Interzonal Travel,
US/USSR Zones, AG 010.6 (IA), OM-
GUS, 17 April 1947.

Revision of MGR 5-383, Offenses by

Displaced Persons, AG 010.6 (LD)
OMGUS, 22 April 1947. Concerns
notification of charges filed against
non-Germans.
ACA Law No. 50, Punishment for
Theft and Unlawful Use of Rationed
Foodstuffs, Goods, and Rationing Do-
cuments, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS,
10 April 19947. Any person engaged
in the production, management, trans-
portation, or custody of rationed
foodstuffs, or rationed goods who
steals them or permits their theft
shall be liable to hard labor for life
or for a term of years or to a fine
from Reichsmark five thousand to
Reichsmark five million.

ACA Law No. 51, Amendment to
Law No. 14, Motor Vehicle Tax Law,
AG 010.6 (FD), OMGUS, 17 April 1947.
When the motor vehicle tax has been
paid for 1947 prior to 5 April at the
lesser rates previously in force, the
difference between the old and the
new rate shall be paid to the appro-
priate office within thirty days from
that date, or 5 May.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

Denazification
Provisions

Instructions for the consideration
for trial of members of criminal
organizations under the German Law
for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism are contained in OM-
GUS letter, AG 010.6 (IA) of 9 April.

The decision of the International
Military Tribunal contains a finding
that membership in the Corps of Polit-
ical Leadership, the Gestapo, and the
SD was at all times voluntary, and

16

that membership in the SS was entire-
ly voluntary until 1940. It recognizes
that thereafter some persons were
brought into the Waffen SS by con-
scription and by transfer.

Military Government has decided
to entrust the trials of members of
criminal organizations to the Public
Prosecutors and Tribunals and to
permit the provisions of the Law for
Liberation to apply.

Upon proof of membership within
any of the incriminated groups of the
organizations found criminal, it will
be presumed that the member joined
or remained a member with know-
ledge of the criminal acts and pur-
Poses of the organization. This pre-:
sumption is rebuttable, and may be
overcome by evidence to the contrary
in accordance with Article 34 of the
Law. A similar presumption will come
up with reference to the voluntary
nature of a respondent's membership
in the Waffen SS.

The youth and Christmas amnesties.
do not apply to members of the crim-
inal organizations, and any Tribu-
nal findings of “Lesser Offender’ or-
“Follower do not have the effect of
exempting such respondents from the
sanctions provided by the Law.

The finding does not include many
of the offenses against the German

people which are included in the

provisions of the Law for Liberation,
and does not include all of the per-
sons in the categories listed in the
Appendix to the Law. In trying cases
involving members of criminal organ-
izations, Public Prosecutors and Tri-
bunals will therefore be entitled to
consider evidence of other matters
closely allied to its provisions which
lie outside the findings of the Inter-
national Military Tribunal.

Personnel Changes

Col. John E. Ray, general secretary
of the International Military Tribunal,
has been appointed by General Clay
as Secretary General of the OMGUS
Military Tribunals in Nuernberg.

Col. WARREN C. RUTTER, CAC, is
appointed Deputy Budget and Fiscal
Director, European Command.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF