--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 96 / 9 JUNE 1947

COLOGNE CATHEDRAL

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG

MARBURG

SILL KREIS

oeeR =

LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG
BUOINGEN

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

KARLSRUHE

PEORZHEIM

ALSFELD

GELNHAUSEN

EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAL
HEILBRONN

FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BUCHEN

OHRINGEN

j BACKNANG

KUNZELSAU

TAUBER BISCH -
OFSHEIM

HALL

\ GRAI_SHEIM

AALEN

See NSN HEIOENHEIM'
EN

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

a i
ae

Bey
Photo by BYERS
COLOGNE CATHEDRAL — In a city of a
some of the hardest fighting during the TABLE OF CONTENTS
llies’ conquest of Germany, this edifice
siands as one of the symbols of a new
fife in the country. An appraisal of the Issue No. 96 9 June 1947
Gevival of the religious life in Germany
lished 4,
epi ished ob Pgs Missing \Childrentetaicte 25. ae cos. ig ie easton aie oo
The <Germien Church 0/2. 6. igi se ee ee
) ' OUR CONTRIBUTORS New Books on Germany, Part2 ........ 6
q
) Material for The German Church was Re-educating German Youth ........+. 9
y
submitted by the Education and Religious G R ,
_ Branch, IA & C Division. The article erman Reactions 1. 2 + gue PW oars ei fei le
ives a background picture of organized re- Diet Welt 2° 90 ee Oe dS
jigion in Germany and how present-day
religious activities are affecting the moral Press and Radio Comment + \i Gg.) §-254,.. . 15
ee of the German people.
Bizonal Economic Council ~ .9: . ......- . 16

ee on German—Background Books

jis the second in a series of four articles Official InstracKians “Sluice ee: oo Phen 20
BD repared by Henry A. Dunlap, Chief Librar-

‘tae on publications available in the

OMGUS Reference Library.

. Missing Children, the story of the organ-
zed search for young boys and girls lost
ring the war, was submitted by the Public
Relations Office in Munich.

Bizonal Economic Council gives the text

Jot the MG Proclamation No. 5 and of Appen-

ix "A" for the establishment and organi- OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
oon of this body for the US/UK Zones. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
“

qrors
hs ae eo

ee sel. \ Lee
oe Dat : :
i)

--- Page 6 ---
CHILDREN

ameless and without parents—
Nina is the status of hundreds of
children in Germany today who were
caught in the misfortunes of war.

Many of the children—lost, kid-
naped, or strayed from their parents
—are now located with strangers who
have befriended them. The mother
sometimes is dead; the father perhaps
is a prisoner-of-war or is living as
a refugee in a German province. Often
he has lost track of his family and
finds it impossible to travel about
searching for them. Growing up in a
new environment, these lost children
are learning new languages and new

faces while older ones become no

more than a dim memory.

Usually without documents and
without reliable information from the
younger boys and girls, welfare work-
ers are going ahead in their work
of trying to return missing daughters
and sons to their parents. The central
Office for Missing Children (Such-
dienst) is in Munich where it is spon-
sored by the Deutscher Caritasverband,
the Red Cross, and the relief organi-
zation of the Protestant Church in
Germany.

Photographs Included

This office and all its branches in
other cities registers children who
were born after 1 January 1931 and
who are lost from their parents. Spe-
cial forms are filled out which in-
clude photographs of the missing
child. All queries from the US and
southern French Zone are automati-
cally forwarded to the central Office
for Missing Children in Munich.
Queries from the British and northern
French Zones go to the branch office
in Hamburg, while the Soviet Zone is
covered by the Office for Missing Per-
sons situated in Berlin. Close cooper-
ation between the various offices is

At the left is a sample of the many
letters received at the Office for
Missing Children in Munich, request-
ing help in locating long-lost children.

9 JUNE 1947

the policy, and joint search actions
in all zones are carried out. If a search
is successful, the parents or relatives
are notified immediately.

Sometimes, with only threads of in-
formation as guidance, it seems mira
culous that children have been found.
One mother, for example, had been
trying for nearly two years to find
her little daughter Ruth. The child
was lost in the spring of 1945 near the
railroad station of Furth when the
mother left a train and went for drink-
ing water and, returning, found the
train had left. The desperate mother
followed with the next train but could
not find her child.

Clue to Train Found

In February 1947 the Search Service
of the Office learned from a farmer
of a refugee train which ran during
the last months of the war from Bres-

‘lau to Augsburg. The train stopped at

a small station and a woman asked
a fellow passenger to watch a little
girl for a moment. The train left and
the woman did not return. The child
was turned over to the police at Augs-
burg and was placed in a children’s
home. When the children were eva-
cuated, a number of them were placed
in the farmer's home. Among them
was a pretty little girl with no iden-
tification beyond the fact that her
name was Ruth. After the children
were returned at the end of the war
to the children's home, the farmer de-
cided to keep the little girl because
he and his family had become very
fond of her. He contacted the Search
Service because he feared some rela-
tives might still be looking for her,
but said he would like to keep Ruth
if her parents were not found. The
Search Service was able to give this
information to the child's mother and
soon afterward mother and daughter
were together after their two year
separation.

At present, the Office for Missing
Children is checking the names of all
registered children to find out how
many of them have now found their

3

parents. Questionnaires are being sent
to children’s homes and foster parents
for this information. Since the war's
end, the office has reunited more than
4,000 children with their parents.

Many Media Used

The work is carried out in several
ways besides search action cases.
Many magazines and newspapers as
well as special films publicize the
faces of the missing children. Remark-
able results have been achieved, for
example, by the magazine Der Pinguin
with its picture series of 50 photo-
graphs entitled “Parents look for their
children” and “Children look for the‘r
parents.”

Perhaps the method reaching the
largest number of people has been
Radio Munich's “Lost Children" pro-
gram which began last July. Every
day except Sunday the station de-
votes 25 minutes to listing approxi-
mately 40 names and addresses cf
German children ranging from one to
15 years who have lost their families
and to families who are looking for
their children. The program applies
equally to all children whether they
be political or racial persecutees or
of unknown origin.

So far results have been very suc-
cessful. Between July 1946 and Fe-
bruary 1947 there have been 475
children reunited with their families
as a direct result of these broadcasts.
Letters have come from all over Ger-
many expressing gratitude for the
work of Radio Munich in helping to
find missing children. A message from
Cologne last Christmas is typical:

“Thanks to your efforts you were
able to give me the address of my
little son. That has been my greatest
Christmas wish and two days before
Christmas I received your letter. For
two years I have searched for my
son. Whenever an agency for missing
persons opened I contacted them. You
are the 15th agency ... Your letter
was the greatest Christmas gift I ever
received. I hope that you will be able
to give the same happiness to many
other people and to help make
children and mothers happy again. I
hope that my check of RM 50 may
give you a little assistance in your
work.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
ermany has always been a coun-
try of established churches. In
spite of threats and ridicule from the
Nazi regime, 53,7 percent of the po-
pulation of ‘Greater Germany” in 1939
belonged to the Evangelical or other
Protestant sects, 40.3 percent to the
Roman Catholic Church, 0.4 percent
to the Jewish religion, 3.5 percent
“believed in God," while the remain-
der admitted no religious belief or
belonged to certain minor groups.
But if 94 percent of the German
people were thus recorded as be-
longing either to the Evangelical or
the Roman Catholic Churches, a dis-
tinction must be noted between this
situation and that in the United States.
In Germany, every person is assumed
to belong to a church unless he ex-
pressly states that he does not, while
in America he only becomes a member
if he expressly joins a church. In Ger-
many, in other words, people are born
into a church and can leave it only
by formally resigning. Whether they

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Church at Alt Otting, Bavaria

actually go to church is another
matter, but they do belong to and
help to support it. In America, only
about 60 out of 140 million people
are recorded as church members, but
most of these 60 millions are active.

Speaking very generally, the south
and west of Germany are Catholic in
religion, the north and east are Evan-
gelical. In some districts of Bavaria
and the Rhineland, almost the entire
population is Catholic; in many parts
of northern Germany it is as fully
Protestant. The Evangelical population
again is divided into Lutheran and
Reformed Churches, while in the for-
mer area of Prussia the churches
are “United'’ and comprise both
groups.

Under Catholicism, Germany is di-
vided into six church provinces, each
headed by an archbishop: Bamberg,
Breslau (now under Polish administra-

4

(PHOTO BY BYERS)

tion), Freiburg, Cologne, Munich, and
Paderborn. Belonging to their juris-
diction are 17 dioceses, each headed
by a bishop, while the bishopric of
Meissen is directly subject to the
Holy See. Certain small districts in
Silesia belong ecclesiastically to sees
in Czechoslovakia. Each archbishop
and bishop is responsible to Rome,
and there is thus no central Catholic
organzation that can speak for all of
Germany. The annual bishops’ con-
ferences, held in Fulda, bring them
together at stated intervals for the
consideration of questions of national
importance.

The Evangelical Christians are or-
ganized in regional Land churches
(Landeskirchen); 28 in number before
the Nazi period, and reduced by
merger to 22. These are joined into
the organization known as the German
Evangelical church (Evangelische

9 JUNE 1947

--- Page 8 ---
Kirche in Deutschland), which thus is
able to speak for them all in matters
of common interest. It is headed by
Bishop Theophilus Wurm of Wuert-
temberg. The Bishop lives in Stutt-
gart. The largest of the Land churches,
as big as all the others combined, is
that of the “Old Prussian Union,"
comprising those provinces that be-
longed to Prussia in 1817, It is a “Uni-
ted" church, for the reason that the
former kings of Prussia were Refor-
med or Calvinists in their religion,
while the vast majority of their sub-
jects were Lutheran. The central
office of the Old Prussian Union Land
church is located in Berlin, and is
headed by Bishop Otto Dibelius of
Berlin. Among the other important
Land churches are those of Bavaria,
Wuerttemberg, Baden, Hannover, and
Saxony. Some of them, on the other
hand, are very small.

The Evangelical Land Churches
were formerly state churches, like the
Church of England or those of Den-
mark and Sweden. The ruling prince
(the king of Prussia or whoever -he
might be) was also the head of the
Land church, and its ministers and
officials were state officials. In Ba-
varia and Saxony, the fact that the
king was Catholic made no difference
in his headship of the Protestant state
church. Even tough political bound-
aries shifted as when Prussia absorbed

Hannover, Schleswig-Holstein, and
Hessen-Kassel in 1866 — the local
Land churches remained, and they

have continued. with some minor
changes to this day, while the states
they formerly represented have dis-
appeared as independent political
units. The prince supported the Land
church and passed on the’ appoint-
ments of church leaders, while church
affairs were watched over by a mi-
nister of his government. The clergy
were "pillars of the state; their so-
cial position was high, and with army

After being curtailed for six years by
the Nazis, the St. Boniface Catholic
Church at Bad Nauheim, Hesse, reviv-
ed its annual “Corpus Christi” holi-
day ceremony last June with a pro-
cession of the church organizations.

(ARMY SIGNAL CORFS PHOTO)

9 JUNE 1947

officers and government officials, they
were privileged to appear at court.

When the monarchy was abolished
in 1918, the former kingdoms and
other states of Germany became Free
States, and the Land churches became
independent. Their management came
into the hands of the ecclesiastical
authorities, but as they were regarded
as institutions important for the main-
tenance of law and order, the state
kept a large measure of influence in
their affairs. It could do this the
more because it continued paying
subsidies to the churches as had been
customary under the monarchy. Sub-
sidies were based on the fact that in
times past the state had on various
occasions taken over the property of
the churches, particularly of the Roman

Catholic. In partial restitution, the
state agreed to continue the payment
of subsidies, but it also demanded and
teceived a voice in church appoint-
ments and a general supervision of
church affairs. In Prussia, for instance,
the state had seen to it that the
churches kept clear of debt. The
churches held to a policy of paying
their own way, which they could do
the better because they were allowed
to levy church taxes on their member-
ship. These taxes are the most im-
portant item of the budgets of both
the Protestant and Catholic churches.

Church taxes, their imposition and
their collection, may be difficult to
understand until it is realized that
they are, in effect, the contributions

(Continued on page 8)

--- Page 9 ---
Part 2
his is the second in a series of
bibliographies, available in the

OMGUS Reference Library, on Ger-
many. The material listed below has
been collected under the general
heading of Background Books, since
they contain the type of information
needed in order to understand fully
present-day Germany.

There are many other books avail-
able in addition to those mentioned
in this article, but those listed
here constitute a bare minimum re-
quirement for those who wish to be
well-informed concerning Germany.

This list is divided into five sec-
tions: General, Government, National
Socialism, German Army, and Pro-
posed Solutions of the German Pro-
blem.

GENERAL

The Encyclopedia Americana (v. 12
p. 505—621). A good general survey
covering the history, politics, govern-
ment, language, literature, religion,
art, trade, and military aspects of
German life up to 1921.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

BOOKS

ON

Encyclopedia Britannica (v. 10
p. 232—311). A good general survey
covering the geology, population,
government, armed forces, economic
and social conditions, ethnology,
history and politics of Germany up to
the invasion of Russia in 1941.

Germany, compiled by the Great
Britain's Admirality, Naval Intelli-
gence Division, and printed under the
authority of H. M, Stationery office
(4 vols). One of the most thorough,
painstaking, and complete studies of
Germany ever written. The volumes
cover the following subjects: 1—Physi-
cal Geography; 2—History and Ad-
ministration; 3—Economic Geography;
4—Ports and Communication. These
books give a complete and well-
rounded view of the most important
aspects of German civilization.

A Political and Cultural History of
Modern Europe, by Carlton J. H. Hayes.
Published for the United States Armed
Forces Institute (4 vols). Appropriate
sections of this work supply fine
background material on German
history. Particularly valuable is
chapter XXVI, “Democracy and Dic-
tatorship.” It is recommended that
this entire work be studied by those
interested in refurbishing their know-
ledge of modern European history.

The Germans in History, by Hubertus
zu Loenstein. A philosophic study of
German hiktory from the time of
Tacitus to 1934. Exceedingly well-
documented, and contains a volu-
minous bibliography.

Germany, a Short History, by
George N. Shuster and Arnold Berg-
straesser. One of the authors is an
American, the other an exile from
Germany. This book is short, concise,
and well-written, though the reader

6

GERMANY

may not always agree with the
authors’ opinions, The general tenor
of the book is that the German people
have contributed to the arts of peace
as well as to the ruthless waging of
war. It covers the period from the
time of the ancient Germanic tribes
to the beginning of World War II.

GOVERNMENT

The Government and Administration
of Germany, by Frederick F. Blachly
and Miriam E.Oatman. An excellent
description of the governmental
system of Germany under the Weimar
Constitution, with particular stress on
the internal administrative organi-
zation of that government. Two appen-
dices contain an English translation
of the text of the Weimar Con-
stitution, and a very complete biblio-
graphy.

Federalism and Regionalism in Ger-
many: the Division of Prussia, by Ar-
nold Brecht, An analysis of federal
and regional development in German
government from 1900—1945.

Governments of Continental Europe,
by James T. Shotwell, etc. Published
for the United States. Armed Forces
Institute (v. 1 p. 281—559). This sec-
tion on government and policies in
Germany covers the ‘period from
Charlemagne to World War II. In
addition to excellent historical nar-
rative it gives the governmental struc-
ture and functions under the Empire,
the Weimar Republic and Nazi Ger-
many, plus a brief history of the rise
of Nazism. At the end of the section
is an excellent annotated bibliography.

9 JUNE 1947

--- Page 10 ---
NATIONAL SOCIALISM

Fascism and National Socialism, a
Study of the Economic and Social Po-
licies of the Totalitarian State, by
Michael T. Florinsky. An interesting
early study of Fascism and Nazism by
a scholar famed for his writings on
Communism.

Nazi Subversive Organization, Past
and Future, by Robert M. W. Kemp-
ner. An excellent study of the Nazi
party organization, with the prediction
that underground movements will
“secretly carry the torch of Nazism.”
With this in mind the author pro-
poses certain measures to defeat such
subversive movements.

Axis Rule in Occupied Europe: Laws
of Occupation, Analysis of Govern-
ment, Proposals for Redress, by Ra-
phael Lemkin. This volume gives im-
portant laws and decrees by which
the Axis Powers controlled the areas
occupied by their forces. It is valu-
able because it gives a clear picture
of the methods used by Germany,
Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Ru-
mania in occupying the territories of
other nations.

National Socialism: Basic Principles,
Their Application by the Nazi Party's
Foreign Organization, and the Use of
Germans Abroad for Nazi Aims, by
Raymond D. Murphy. A study of
Nazism based on German laws, de-
crees, official records, statements of
Nazi leaders, confidential reports by
representatives of the US Department
of State. Voluminous appendices con-
tain copies of German documents (in
English and German), glossary of Ger-
man terms, and a short index of
persons and organizations.

The Nazi Economic System, Germa-
ny’s Mobilization for War, by Otto
Nathan, with the collaboration’ of
Milton Fried. An examination of the
economic methods and _ techniques
used by the Nazis in preparing Ger-
many for World War II.

Behemoth, the Structure and Prac-
tice of National Socialism, by Franz
Neumann. This long and comprehen-
sive study covers the collapse of the
Weimar Republic, the growth of
Nazism, the economics of Nazism,
German society, and Nazi Germany
in the war. It is a thorough work,
very well documented.

9 JUNE 1947

The Nazi Dictatorship, by Frederick
L. Schuman. An amazingly prophetic
analysis of Nazism written only three
years after Hitler's seizure of power.

German Strategy of World Conquest,
by Derwent Whittlesey. An expla-
nation of the German plan to rule
the world as shown by ‘their efforts
in World War I and World War II.

GERMAN ARMY

Hitler's Generals, by W. E. Hart.
A collection of short biographies on
seven Nazi military and two naval
leaders.

The German Army, by Herbert Ro-
sinski. A short study of the German
army from the time of Frederick the
Great to World War II. Particularly
interesting and informative is the
chapter on the General Staff system.
No systematic study of Germany
would be complete without reference
to this or a similar short work deal-
ing with the organization of the
German army.

PROPOSED SOLUTIONS
OF GERMAN PROBLEM

The United States of Germany, by
K. K. Doberer, A recommendation for
the formation of a United States of
Germany made up from five to eight
states.

Germany is our Problem, by Henry
Morgenthau, Jr. This blueprint for
the occupation of Germany rests on
the central theme of making Germany
an agrarian nation. Secretary Morgen-
thau drew up the plan while he was
in the cabinet of President Roosevelt.
While the plan was not adopted, itis
nevertheless important to know in
order to better understand the occu-
pation plan now being followed. The
text of the Potsdam Declaration is
included in Appendix C.

The Control of Germany and Japan,
by Harold G. Moulton and Louis Mar-
lio. A discussion of various plans ad-
vanced to. prevent Germany and Ja-
pan from .again becoming aggressor
nations. Following the discussion of
these plans a definite scheme for
military plus economic control is out-
lined.

The third article in this series, pre-
pared by Henry: A. Dunlap, Chief
Librarian of the OMGUS Reference

7

Library, will deal with "Special
Books” on Germany. It is scheduled
for publication in next week's issue
of the Weekly Information Bulletin.

Naming of Custodians

Provided in Law 57

MG Law No. 57 concerning the
appointment of custodians for certain
bank organizations and applying to
the four Laender of the US Zone, be-
came effective 6 May.

This law provides that an indepen-
dent custodian shall be appointed by
each Land government for the Deut-
sche Bank, Dresdner Bank, and Com-
merzbank. The custodians, respons-
ible o the Land governmets, will
manage and administer the property
of these banks within the respective
Laender. They will preserve, main-
tain, and safeguard the banks’ pro-
perty and keep all necessary records
and accounts relating to the banks
operations. By a specific provision of
the law, the independent custodians
will change the names of these banks
in such a manner that the new names
will be different in each Land.

This law will, in no way, affect
existing relations between these banks
and their customers and depositors,
officials of the Finance Division, OM-
GUS, emphasized. Moreover, it was
pointed out that the present financial
position of these banks in each Land
remains unchanged.

The Potsdam Agreement set forth
the principle of economic decentrali-
zation in Germany. The establishment
of Land Central Banks, which have
been functioning smoothly in the
US Zone for some time, was in line
with the Allied objective of eliminat-
ing the control of financial operations
by a small group as exemplified by
the Reichsbank system.

Before and during the war, the
Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank, and
Commerzbank, three of the most po-
werful banking chains in Europe,
exercised a dominating influence over
financial and industrial activities.
Law No. 57 is designed to rectify this
situation in accordance with the prin-
ciples established in the Potsdam
Agreement.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
The German Church

(Continued from page 5)

of church members, levied according
to their ability to pay by making them
a surcharge on the income tax. It must
be remembered that every German is
assumed to be a member of a church
unless he expressly surrenders his
membership. Even very dilatory
churchgoers are loath to take such a
step, however, and they are accor-
dingly held to the support of their
church by paying church taxes. This
a person does by adding a certain
percentage to his income tax, which
the government authorities then turn
over to the churches, less a small fee
for acting as collecting agents. Fur-
ther sources of income are rents on
landed property, interest on securi-

ties, Sunday collections, donations,
and bequests.
As for the so-called “Free Chur-

ches,” they are called “free because
they are not subsidized or supervised
by the state, but are managed and
financed entirely by their members.
They decline state assistance in any
form. Among the Free Churches may
be mentioned the Methodists and
Baptists, Jehovah's Witnesses, the
Quakers, and Menonnites, — in fact,
almost every denomination known in
the United States is represented by
some organization in Germany.

The Jewish congregations are of
course greatly reduced in numbers,
but synagogues are being reorganized
in many cities. The synagogue in Mu-
nich, the first to be rebuilt in the US
Zone, was dedicated on 21 May with
impressive ceremonies in the presence
of General Clay and other high mili-
tary and civilian representatives.
Jewish congregations formerly had
many of the privileges that were
accorded the Protestants and Catho-
lics, notably the right to collect
church taxes, which right they exer-
cised. It was taken away from them
under the Nazi regime, and so far,
the congregations have declined to
make use of it again. It is possible
that the reduced Jewish congregations
will be content to do their own financ-
ing, following the example of the
“Free Churches".

Today, with a united country no
longer existence, and such a state as

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Prussia officially abolished, the chur-
ches, Catholic and Evangelical, find
themselves confronted by new states,
the Laender, with which they must
deal. These Laender have taken over
the responsibilities of the former
states, and are seeking new bases for
their dealings with the churches.
However, this does not mean an end
to any kind of relationship between
churches and Laender, for old commit-
ments, customs, and traditions still
carry weight. In every European
country, some kind of intercourse be-
tween the to great forces of law and
order — government and religion —
exists and is maintained by public
opinion.

The relationship between church
and government will go forward upon
a new basis now that the Allied Con-
trol Authority has repealed the Nazi
law of 14 July 1933, which gave state
recognition to the constitution of the
German Evangelical Church.

The essential accomplishment of the
old Nazi law had been to grant formal
state approval to the constitution
which the German Evangelical Church
had adopted a few days earlier. In
the recent repeal of this law it was
carefully noted that only the Nazi
approval was being repealed, not the
church constitution itself. The Nazi
law which recognized the constitution
was part of a plan to bring the Evan-
gelical Church further under govern-
mental control and religious leaders
considered it as state interference
with internal ecclesiastical matters.

Military Government's policy is to
provide full freedom of worship for all
Germans. Any interference with in-
ternal church affairs is carefully
avoided. Full utilization of the rigth
to worship in an atmosphere of free-
dom, however, has been hampered by
the many physical difficulties which
face the churches today. Lack of
heating facilities and inadequate space
due to the destruction of church build-
ings and the heavy influx or refugees
have proved serious handicaps. In
addition, there is a severe shortage
of Bibles, prayer books,
books. .

Particularly serious is the dearth of
younger clergymen, especially in the
Evangelical churches. It was Nazi
policy to discourage and ridicule theo-

8

and hymn.

logical study. Many theological stu-
dents and ministers had to serve in
the German army and a high percent-
age of them was killed. It will take
years to fill the depleted ranks.

In spite of these difficulties, reli-
gious services and activities have con-
tinued. Church attendance is generally
reported to be higher than during the
Nazi regime. Yet it can hardly be said
that there is a widespread religious
revival in Germany. Some churches
report that during the first months
after Germany's defeat attendance at
religious services was greatly incre-
ased. However, it soon became ap-
parent that with many people this
new interest in the church was pri-
marily motivated by a desire to hide
their Nazi past or by the hope of
receiving material benefits from the
churches’ relief agencies. As soon as
these expectations were not realized
many of the newcomers lost interest
again.

But today, religious youth groups
in the US Zone are flourishing. Some
churches report an increase in Sunday
school attendance of from 50 to 100
percent. While many young Germans,
through the daily struggle for exi-
stence, have become cynical about
moral values, others are showing an
interest in religious questions. Freed
from outside interference, the post-
war German church can be expected
to make its contribution toward the
religious and moral rehabilitation of
the German people.

. : :
Braille in Mail

Quadripartite authority has been
granted for the inclusion of Braille
matter in the international postal ser-
vice for Germany with all countries
of the world except Spain and Japan
and their dependencies. This service
commenced 15 May.

General regulations applying to this
service are: the weight limit for cor-
respondence in Braille is 500 grams
and for other matter in Braille five
kilograms; postal rates are three times
the pre-occupation rates and contents,
routing and other regulations are the
same as those in force for internatio-
nal letter mail and in accordance with
regulations of the Universal Postal
Union.

9 JUNE 1947

--- Page 12 ---
by Dr. Norman E. Himes

he Youth Activities Program of

Military Government and the Army
can be understood only in terms of
our military mission in Germany, The
chief objective of this mission is not
only the negative one of the destruc-
tion of Nazi ideals and war-making
power, but also the positive achieve-
ment of democratic reorientation in
order that Germany may eventually
find its place as a respected member
of the family of nations,

The voluntary cooperation of Ame-
rican women, civilians, and WAC'’s in
the youth program can assist ma-
terially in attacking the conception,
strenghtened by the Nazis, that Ame-
ricans are a selfcentered, materialistic
people who work only for their own
interests and are unprepared to make
sacrifices for the welfare of the com-
munity in general. Merely by setting
a good example we can in some
measure diffuse the spirit of demo-
cracy. By showing the constructive
aspects of our personalities as Ame-
ricans, varied as those personalities
are, we can also help to undermine
the Nazi pressure toward conformity,
which in no small measure still lives.

The Youth Activities Program is
important because we can get the
most effective results by working
with youth, because there is a strong
tradition in Germany of youth activi-
ties upon which to build, and finally
because the economic and social dis-

At the recent German Youth As-
sistance Conference held in Berlin,
Dr. Himes of the Education and Reli-
gious Affairs Branch, OMGUS, dis-
cussed—some of the problems in-
volved in the re-orientation of Ger-
man young people. For the readers of
the Weekly Information Bulletin, Dr.
Himes has selected excerpts from his
address for this article,

9 JUNE 1947

organization now current contribute
toward the feeling of hopelessness,
bewilderment, and lack of confidence
so widespread among German youth.

The program of this conference,
which has been set up primarily to
assist in the training of American
volunteers, emphasizes practical next-
steps in the program and the techni-
ques of good group work. My assign-
ment is a more general one: to place
youth activities in their broader set-
ting, as one step in the re-orientation
of the German people.

t is essential to recognize at the

outset that the youth program is
merely a small part of the far-reach-
ing task of reorientation in Germany.
Our youth program can merely assist
other institutions: a reformed school
system; more enlightened family and
religious indoctrination. The German
youth organizations serve only some
youth — say 30 percent ages 10 to
18 — for a few hours a week,

By way of passing let me mention
a few general objectives for the formal
educational system toward which we
ought to work in the immediate future:
the abolition of the two-track educa-
tional system by which youth were
predestined from an early age to
prepare, on the one hand, for the
most humble occupations or, on the
other hand, for the professions — an
undemocratic system which prejudged
human abilities and capacities, and
wasted talent. Germany needs more
equal educational opportunities for
all; more democratic standards in-
tuition and in the provision of text-
books, in support by public funds;
revised curricula, promoting inter-
national good will and understanding;
more adequate teacher training; better
health supervision in education; com-
pulsory school attendance to a later
age. These are merely a few of the

9

objectives toward which we should
work.

Just as the school system deals
with formal education, so the youth
program attempts to achieve demo-
cratic education through informal
procedures.

Before Hitler, German youth groups
emphasized free association. ‘While
religious and sport groups dominated,
as they do now, there was little pres-
sure toward conformity.

Under Hitler, youth were regi-
mented, were obliged to take up para-
military and military activities; or-
ganizations were “coordinated,” con-
solidated, and strengthened to induce
“unity” and strengthen the state.

will misunderstand, however,
the significance of German youth
organization under the Nazis if we fail
to appreciate the strong sense of com-
munity responsibiJity and loyalty to
the state which was inculcated. Hitler
youth organizations were not without
idealism. Nazism merely misdirected
this idealism into anti-social chan-
nels. The grave danger now is that
we shall assist materially and strength-
en German organizations, but will
not succeed in inculcating a different
set of ideals, in this case, morally
tenable ideals. These are necessarily
difficult to inculcate and the process
takes time.

It is difficult to teach the spirit of
a culture, in this case, democratic
ideals. But a first essential is a clear
understanding of them on our own
part. Democracy is associated not
merely with the Rights of Man and
the Four Freedoms, but with faith
in the inherent decency and poten-
tialities of the common man. It teaches
the integrity of human personality,
emphasizes freedom of individual
conduct provided that it is not de-
monstrably anti-social, Democratic re-
lations between human beings make
for the enrichment and maturation of
human personality. Many of our
problems, including aggression in the
world, would be materially reduced
if somehow we could train people to
be emotionally mature or to achieve
adulthood: This may even be more
important than purely — intellectual
training.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Democracy wishes to see each
person developed to the maximum
extent of which he is capable by
virtue of his genetic endowment. It
believes in the merit system; that
people should have an opportunity
to secure as much training as pos-
sible so that their service to the com-
munity may be maximized. Democracy
merely creates opportunities. It is not
a system for preventing people from
making mistakes except insofar as it
has a kind of automatic machinery
for making adjustments. Democracy
is more than the mechanics of any-
thing. In politics it is more than the
electoral system; it is a system of
checks and balances and above all
a means of making those who govern
sensitive to the will of the electorate.
In economic relations it does or should
mean the same thing.

emocracy is a growth, not a
finished achievement. That is one
reason why so many people grow
impatient with it. The human race is
always looking for shortcuts and
Hitlerism was merely the most tragic
form it has taken in recent centuries.
Democracy in American is certainly
not perfected; but we probably have
it to a greater degree than any other
country in the world. We have what
it takes to build it on a stable founda-
tion, namely the machinery for
making corrections as we go along.
Democracy is associated not simply
with tolerance but with an active
appreciation of differences in points
of view. Hence it respects minorities.
The spirit of democracy is essentially
the spirit of humility and of science.
In democracies, as compared with
dictatorships, we do not believe in
“pushing people arround.” We believe
in a minimum of interference, The
Nazis used all the resources of
modern science to make people con-
form. Their strutting arrogance was
the very reverse of democratic humi-
lity. This is one of many reasons why
Nazism and democratic institutions
are so far apart.

Since Nazism built on a tradition of
two hundred years of military aggres-
sion, and since militarism itself is a
compound of many other psycho-
logical attitudes deeply intrenched in

(Continued on page 12)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

NUREMBERG CASES — (above) Eight of the defendants in the Farben case
await the serving of the indictment prepared by the Office of Chief of
Counsel for War Crimes, OMGUS, at Nuremberg. (below) Wilhelm List
receives the indictment in the cases against former Wehrmacht generals on
charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity, as Maximilian von
Weichs looks on. Handing out the indictments is Col C. W. Mays (left),
Marshal of the Military Tribunals. (ARMY SIGNAL CORPS PHOTOS)

10 9 JUNE 1947

--- Page 14 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

=

Press Aids More-Food Drive

he food situation continued to be
Tues top topic in the editorial
comment in the German licensed press,
especially following the straight-for-
ward statements by leading occupa-
tional officials pointing out the most
promising way to a sensible solution
to the current critical condition.

The Frankfurter Rundschau, the
oldest licensed newspaper in the US
Zone, devoted a lead editorial to the
support of the radio address by the
Director of the OMG for Hesse,
saying:

“The speech which the Director of
the Military Government, Dr. James
R, Newman, delivered to the citizens
of Hesse, may be described as the
model of democratic frankness. It is
the speech of a man who calls things
by their names, not only as he sees
them, but as they really are...

“We must be clear on one point: no
one in the world must help us, after
what has happened, but many in the
world want to help us if we do our
share. That we do our share, how-
ever, is today not so much a question
of politics as a question of public
morality. No political party, in the
condition we must overcome through
recognition and suitable measures,
may hold anyone else responsible for
what we must all bear as a result of
the war... A frank word at the right
time can work wonders.”

The article demanded an equaliza-
tion of food conditions in town and
country, and warned: “A failure to
attain this equalization will ultima-
tely affect the food-producers just as
harshly as many of those are affected
who want nothing more today than to
eat to be able to work.”

The Neue Presse (Coburg) under-
lined the importance of fighting
hunger in the struggle against war.
It said:

“The old political device of the pa-
cifists, "War against war,’ must there-
fore be replaced by the social device,
“war against hunger’ ... The phantom

9 JUNE 1947

of hunger haunts not only Germany
+. If hunger were only a German ill-
ness, it would not be too difficult to
fight it. But nowadays hunger is not
a national illness, but a worldwide
one, and therefore it cannot be suc-
cessfully resisted by a single country
or even a single continent ...

“The world is one. In our century
hunger is indivisible, and welfare is
indivisible. War against hunger, there-
fore, can only be successful if all men
of good will, all people of the world
fight it together.”

The Schwaebische Donau-Zeitung
(Ulm) said: “Although offbicials of the
Military Government explain to the
German people in newspapers, and
over the radio the amount of food
transports from America, again and
again rumors are spread by unscru-
pulous political agitators who say that
the United States delivers food only
to those countries that can pay in
dollars. The German people will do
well to give the proper answer to
these rumor-mongers. They should
realize that such statements are only
meant to incite them so that if un-
rest results, these doubtful elements
may carry on their political machi-
nations. Recognizing how deeply other
countries had been wronged by the
Nazi regime, Germany can win back
the respect and appreciation of the
world only, if she is honestly willing
to repay and rebuild peacefully.”

Paper Shortage

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
made an unusual but convincing
coupling of bread and paper, pointing
out the value of both in democratic
reeducation. The article said:

“Our democracy needs two things
especially: bread and paper. At the
first moment this combination seems
strange—but are not those people
discontented who cannot be fed pro-
perly, and do they not oppose the

11

bread and paper. It is most regret-
iable that this shortage is still in-
creasing. A now, so far the greatest,
Paper cut occurs on the eve of the
coming critical months of hunger; a
shortage that makes the newspapers
cut down to half of their former size.

A dangerous development in the
struggle for a better Germany!

“Newspapers which are thought to
be the free voice of the people will
be published as mere pamphlets which
cannot fulfill the task given to today's
press; and this is done at a time when
consolation of the word and the de-
fense of our cultural values are
highly necessary because the hungry
people may loose their faith and may
yield entirely to stagnant disappoint-
ment.”

The Schwaebische Donau-Zeitung
(Ulm) accepted the 50 percent paper
cut with tours of resignation but re-
commended that the necessary paper
should have been taken from Public-
ations rather than Press.

“The bizonal merger demands its
sacrifices and we pull in our paper-
belts in favor of our colleagues in the
West. But: did it have to come to
this? Would it not have been possible
to husband our resources wisely, in
time, and to dam up the flood of
dispensable paper-products? Are the
72 magazines which appear in Stutt-
gart alone and the more than 200 in
the US Zone all equally good and im-
portant? We doubt it. Are the count-
less brochures about God and the
world and the immorality of the May
Beetle all necessary? We doubt it...
A bitter sour-pickle time is beginning
for the ‘black art’ and newspapermen
will do well to take their leave now."

On the same subject the Rhein-
Neckar-Zeitung (Heidelberg) said:

“How it will be possible in the
space now at our disposal to re-edu-
cate the people, and to report truly
on events of world policy and of
Germany, remains a question whose

WESXLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
significance should be known to the
bizonal Economic Office that ordered
the paper cut. We know the diffi-
culties which came up with the eco-
nomic union of the two Western
Zones. We, however, cannot under-
stand the decision of the bizonal office.
It is our opinion that even with the
present poor paper situation it would
have been possible to leave the news-
paper space as it was.

“It would also have been easier to
try the paper cut there where it was
not only possible but also necessary:
among magazines, which under the
name of journalism pretend today to
have a right to exist, and whose paper
consumption largely exceeds the de-
mand of the population. Only one look
in a book store is enough to reveal
piles of unsold magazines which often
are not bad, but too specialized to
interest a large public.”

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten an-
nounced that as a result of the paper
cut it will appear twice instead of
three times weekly, and with a two-
page and a four-page issue. It regret-
ed the cut particularly because of
the necessary reduction in straight
news and advertising “necessary for
the maintenance of the economy.”
The paper indicated the contrast in
the Soviet Zone:

“In these columns we already point-
ed out that in the Eastern Zone,
with the same food situation and
during a period of highest importance
for the whole international situation,
the danger of partition of Germany,
nearly the entire press has a larger
consumption, and that those news-
papers apparently flow more and
more to the Western Zone.”

Apology for Mann

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) was typical for the numerous
editorial comments on the statements
made by Thomas Mann on Germany:
they criticized it, but often apologized
for him. The Heidelberg paper said:

“In time, however, it became ob-
vious that the distance of oceans had
veiled his view of the course of things.
When the war was finished and the
Third Reich collapsed, Thomas Mann
addressed Germany in lenghty and

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

hardly flattering letters... His views
prove that a great author and strong
character may not necessarily be a
politician with delicate feeling.”

Prejudices Hit

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung carried
a strong editorial against German pre-
judices and intolerance, concluding:

“If we have learned to be tolerant
toward our fellow-man and to respect
his right for a personal opinion, it
will never be possible again for a
highly cultural people to tolerate
quietly the persecution and exter-
mination of hundreds of thousands of
their fellow countrymen of more pre-
judice—a fact which made the 12
years of the Third Reich so incom-
prehensible for people abroad.”

Finis to Schacht Case

In writing “finis” to the story of
Hjalmar Schacht, former German
finance minister convicted and sen-
tenced to prison, fine, and loss of
tights by a German denazification tri-
bunal, the Zeit Echo (Schwaebisch-
Hall) said:

“The greatest miscalculator of our
days has calculated wrongly for the
last time. For decades he calculated
with gold, checks, shares, and man-
power .... May he contemplate at
the end of his life whether it would
not have been better to have followed
the straight and narrow road in his
life.”

Re-educating GermanYouth

(Continued from page 10)

German culture, the replacement of
these attitudes with what we call the
democratic spirit will necessarily be
a very long-time program.

‘e cannot immediately transplant

this order of values to Germany
if we wanted to, and probably it
wouldn't be wise if we could. But we
have a moral obligation to communi-
cate such values as may prevent
Germany in the future from becoming
a warlike, aggressive power.

12

Since most of us learn “oper-
ationally,” that is the way the Ger-
mans will learn democratic ways, if
they ever do. ,

Even though we are not here to
impose our culture on the Germans
and even though the democratic spirit
is humble, we should not be overly
sensitive and timid about assisting
the Germans to take on some of our
standards of values. No faith can pre-
vail without confidence. And we
cannot win the peace except by faith
in our own cherished values.

On the purely organizational side
we have made rapid strides in assist-
ing German youth. In April 1946
there were about 2.000 German youth
groups serving 250.000 youth 10 to 18
years of age. By April 1947 there
were 7.000 groups serving 890.000
young people.

pproximately 40 percent are in

religious groups, 32 percent in
sport groups, 14 percent in cultural
organizations, 7 percent trade union
youth groups and 6 percent of a mis-
cellaneous type. Unfortunately the
number attending handicraft gather-
ings has declined in the past year
but there has been a steady increase

in cultural activities, discussion
groups, lectures, forums, musical
events, etc.

Among the outstanding current

needs in the US Zone in the field of
Youth Activities are: more training
of future German leaders in youth;
greater emphasis on girls work; en-
richment of the program, with renew-
ed emphasis on the _ educational
aspects; renewed contacts between
German youth and those of democra-
tic countries; rejuvenation of Kreis
and Youth Comittees by the election
of younger members who will be
more representative of the groups
served; More work among university
students, who have more than
average likelihood of occupying
future positions of leadership; a
stronger development of trade union
youth groups, since in  pre-Hitler
times the trade unions were a bul-
wark of democracy in Germany; and
translations into German of the bet-
ter literature on youth from the Uni-
ted States and from democratic Euro-
pean countries.

9 JUNE 1947

--- Page 16 ---
DIE WELT:

ne “overt’’ newspaper, Die Welt,
Orrmains in the British Zone. Produ-
ced under British supervision, it was
Jaunched in April 1946, with a two-
fold object: to endeavour to be an
example in objectivity to the new
German press, to set a high standard
in the separation of news from com-
ment, and to bring the German reader
into contact with the outside poli-
tical and cultural world — to break
through his isolation and to over-
throw the false journalistic standards
imposed upon the German press by
Goebbels and Dietrich.

The main difficulty which faced
Die Welt in its early days concerned
the recruitment of staff. It would have
been easy enough to recruit a body
of slick and experienced journalists
all of whom had prospered in the
newspaper world of the Third Reich.
Such men would work anywhere for
money. It was far less easy to per-
suade genuine anti-Nazi and demo-
cratic Germans to serve on a British-
supervised publication. Men who had
suffered for their convictions and re-
sisted Hitler's regimentation for years
were unwilling to contemplate serving
as mouthpieces for British authority.

It was only by convincing such men
that Die Welt would be a genuinely
free newspaper and not a hand-out
sheet or a Military Government Ga-
zette that they could be persuaded to
devote their energies and knowledge
to its service. The present chief-edi-
tor of Die Welt, Rudolf Kuestermeier,
suffered 12 years of prison and con-
centration camp as a result of defying
Goebbel's press control in 1934. The
remaining staff of 30 includes men of
many shades. of political opinion, care

This article is reprinted with per-
mission of the British Zone Review,
the official organ of the British Con-
trol Commission/Military Govern-
ment. An article on Die Neue Zeitung,
the American MG German - language
newspaper, was published in the
Weekly Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 66 of 4 November 1946.

9 JUNE 1947

having been taken to avoid building
up a newspaper with a party com-
plexion.

The broad liberal charter of Die
Welt has been implemented in a
number of ways. Every issue carries
a column of extracts from the foreign
press. The newspaper quoted range
from the Catholic Tablet to the Daily
Worker and from La Nation Belge to
Izvestia. Thus the German can read
for himself many sides of the case on
any world issue, such as Russian criti-
cism of Mr. Bevin, or the French plan
for international control of the Ruhr.
He can read attacks by American
newspapers on British imperial policy
as well as British press voices alleg-
ing unfair use of economic power by
the United States. He is in the posi-
tion of a man free to form his own
opinion.

A second and successful Die Welt
feature is a column devoted to
readers’ letters. Almost every subject
of topical interest has been ventilated
in this part of the newspaper. Protests
at the abolition of war pensions,
opinions for and against the retrial
of Tilessen, allegations that the rail-
roads have received fdvored treat-
ment at the expense of road transport,
criticism of the Dutch territorial
claims against Germany, complaints
of the slow repatriation of German
prisoners — all these themes and
many more have been discussed in
the readers’ column of the paper. In
March 1947 the number of readers’
letters reaching Die Welt daily was
just under 100. Thus from its inception
the paper set out to establish a human
contact with its readers, and the prin-
ciple has been laid down, and con-
sistently observed that every readers’
letter must be individually answered.

The close attention paid by the
staff of Die Welt to readers reactions
has enabled the newspaper to make
some positive contributions to the so-
lution of social problems in Germany.
In September 1946 Die Junge Welt, a
single page youth supplement to Die
Welt, featured a description of the

13

BRITISH ZONE
OVERT PAPER

home for 180 refugee orphans at
Klappholttal on the Island of Sylt.
The article described the destitute
plight of these children, without toys
or books, and clad in many cases in
rags. By January 1947, as a result of
“Aktion Klappholttal” gifts had flowed
in from Germans in all parts of the
British Zones, and from the British
and Swedish Red Cross, the Army
Welfare Service and the Salvation
Army. Among the contributions were
200 books, 200 exercise books, 42
dolls, 125 vitamin packets, 1,000 pen-
cils, a quantity of clothing, and
RM 19,000 in cash. In addition (as a
result of photographs published) 22
children found their parents or near-
est relatives and over 20 were re-
ceived into child welfare centers in
various parts of the zone.

A similar “Aktion” was carried
through in November by Die Junge
Welt for the destitute refugees from
eastern countries who were living in
the overcrowded township of Bad
Segeberg in Schleswig-Holstein, where
the population had increased from
50,000 to 90,000 as a result of the
unending refugee treks from the East.
In consequence of an article publi-
shed in Die Junge Welt RM 10,000
was donated as well as large quanti-
ties of toys, baby clothes and house-
hold articles. The number of homes
offered for the orphans among the Se-
geberg refugees exceeded the numbers
of such children.

In its handling of German issues
Die Welt has adhered to the principle
of the open forum. Articles express-
ing almost every viewpoint in Ger-
man political life are carried. Politi-
cal contributors range from Dr. Aden-
auer, chairman of the Right Wing
Christian Democratic Union, to Kurt
Schumacher, the Social Democrat, and
Max Reimann, the Communist. The
German reader of Die Welt can thus
form his own opinion about the ideas
and programs of the German politi-
cal leaders.

This policy of the “open forum” is
open as always to the criticism that

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
it makes for dullness and lack of
color. But in the Germany of today
where most newspapers are party-
owned and where press polemics too
often take the form of embittered
party strife a newspaper which, with-
out passion, gives the reader facts,
ideas of every complexion, and a high
standard of cultural criticism should
not be underestimated. (Editor’s note:
All licensed German newspapers in
the US Zone are politically indepen-
dent and above-party.)

In fulfilling that part of its “brief”
which is concerned with bringing the
Germans once more into cultural
contact with the outside world Die
Welt has endeavoured through its
London and Paris correspondents to
present an intelligible picture of, for
example, developments in the British
film world, and in the London theater,
of Jean-Paul Sartre's writing, and of
new British and American books on
Germany such as Victor Gollancz's
“In Darkest Germany” and Howard
Becker's “German Youth Bond or
Free?” In addition a generous allow-
ance of space is allocated for import-
ant House of Common debates.

Another function which Die Welt
has had to fulfill has been the investi-
gation and countering of false rumors.
In 1946 the rumor was current in the
British Zone that ‘the announcement
of wheat imports from Canada was
untruthful British propaganda. A la-
borer, so ran the report, had loaded
Westphalia wheat onto a truck which
was to take it to Hamburg. By mistake
he had left-his jacket on the truck
and had made his way to Hamburg
to recover it. On locating the truck
he had found all the bags of grain on
it labeled “Canadian wheat!" Die
Welt published requests for “the man
without the jacket" to come forward
or communicate with the editor or
with any leading citizen. Nothing
was ever heard from any quarter of
this mysterious character.

The main news sources drawn upon
by Die Welt are the German News
Service, the British controlled Zonal
News Agency, which is soon to pass
under German control, and, since De-
cember 1946, The Times. In that
month The Times concluded a con-
tract with Die Welt under which the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

London correspondent of the news-
paper has access: to Times despatches
and the opportunity of cabling them
immediately to Hamburg. Besides its
correspondent in London, Die Welt
has 15 German correspondents work-
ing for it in towns of the western
Zones such as Hanover, Bremen, Stutt-
gart, Munich, Baden-Baden, and Frank-
furt. (Editor's note: The German News
Service mentioned above is DPD and
entirely separate from DENA of the
US Zone. The Times noted above is
the London Times.)

The circulation of Die Welt which,
at the start, was 100,000 had risen to
600,000 in March 1947. In September
1946 a Rhineland edition was laun-
ched. This is printed at Essen in the
plant of the former Rheinisch-West-
falische Zeitung, and accounts for
one-third of the total edition. At first
Die Welt was printed twice weekly
but since October 1946 it has appear-
ed three times a week.

The fact that Die Welt is produ-
ced on a basis of Anglo-German
cooperation under general British
supervision has evoked some criti-
cism from the CDU section of the Ger-
man licensed press. It has been alle-
ged that the paper enjoys unfair ad-
vantage over other German papers.
It is interesting, however, that no
such criticism has so far been made
by Die Welt's 600,000 readers. On the
contrary over 500 letters are received
every day from Germans wanting to
take out subscription to the paper.
This is in addition to the 100 letters
containing discussion and comment
which are received daily.

The following is an extract from a

letter out of the mailbag of Die Welt.
It was received 25 March 1947.

Die Welt has gained in quality in
the last few months to an astonishing
degree. It has — in a comparatively
short time — assumed a character of
its own, an admirable and compact
character....

» “You still have too little space for
features and criticism (I know the
paper shortage in the British Zone is
the cause), yet many of your sho:t
essays express truly the character of
the times and of the newspaper....
your article on the French Zone and
on south east Europe were extre-

14

mely instructive.... and I find your
selection of foreign press extracts and
readers's letters excellent.”

The writer then went on to make
some criticism and positive sugges-
tions. He would like an informative
article on, for example Ireland, and
a series of profile biographies of con-
temporary German political leaders,
He would welcome also the devotion
of more space to articles and reports
on Russia and the Soviet Zone of
Germany.

Such letters are an encouragement
to both British and German personnel
of Die Welt. They give grounds for
the belief that the newsaper has not
failed entirely to satisfy the still sur-
viving desire of a large section of
the Germans for accurately reported
news, for as wide a mental horizon
as can be offered in the compass of
a four page paper, and for keen and
stimulating comment, criticism anJ
debate.

Personnel Changes

Col. Walker W. Hollar has been
designated Acting Director, Armed
Forces Division, OMGUS, replacing
Maj. Gen. Robert W. Harper, who is
making a special mission to the Far
East before his return to the United
States for permanent change of
station.

Col. John E.Ray, General Secretary
of the International Military Tribunal,
has been appointed Secretary General
of the OMGUS Military Tribunals in
Nuremberg.

Theo E. Hall has been appointed
Chief, Public Safety Branch, IA&C
Division, OMGUS. He had been
Deputy Chief of the Branch since
joining the Group Control Council
in 1945,

Col, Robert A. Willard has been
named Commanding Officer of the
Berlin Command, OMGUS. He had
been Signal Officer since arriving in
Berlin 1 July 1945 as one of the first
US officers to enter the city for
occupation duty.

Col. Edward F. French has been
named Acting Chief Signal Officer,
EUCOM, replacing Brig. Gen. Francis
H. Lanahan, Jr. *

9 JUNE 1947

--- Page 18 ---
ncreasing attention is being given
i United States newspapers to
further food and economic aid which
many countries in Europe and Asia
will need to achieve stability and
reconstruction. Comment before and
after a speech in which Under-Secre-
tary of State Acheson reviewed
foreign economic dislocations and out-
lined how America hopes to help,
indicates a deep awareness that world
peace and security are dependent on
economic recovery.

The Washington Post editorial,
noting heavy postwar US exports,
which currently are at a record peace-
time level, said:

“The world stjll stands in desperate
need of the food, raw materials,
machinery and other manufactured
goods that are being bought in
America. For as Under-Secretary of
State Acheson said, most of the coun-
tries of Europe and Asia are still in
a state of physical destruction or eco-
nomic dislocation or both. Further-
more, rehabilitation has been retarded
in Europe by crop failures and un-
precedentedly bad weather. Two im-
portant sources of supply for Europe
and Asia, Germany and Japan, are
now dependent upon outside aid,
Added to these unfavorable factors is
the political instability that impedes
economic recovery.

“The net result is that the im-
poverished peoples of the world turn
for succor to the one great nation
that has come through the war with
its productive machinery not only
undamaged but actually geared for
higher production.

“It is obvious, however, that we
cannot continue for long -to sell
between eight and nine billion dollars
more goods (our current annual rate
of export-over-import balance as in-
dicated from first quarter 1947 figures)
to foreign countries than we purchase
from them, if those goods have to be
paid for in cash. For the gold and
dollar assets belonging to the war-

9 JUNE 1947

Economic Recovery Vital

damaged purchasing countries have
already been drawn upon heavily
and with UNRRA supplies no longer
available, the drain on these diminish-
ing dollar reserves is being acce-
lerated.”

The Post editorial cited the dearth
of dollars problem of Britain, France,
Italy, and other countries, and con-
tinued:

"On our part there is an alternative
which would help to keep up their
purchases. We could finance them.
Through direct relief, Export-Import
Bank loans, International Bank and
Fund, and the loan to Britain, it is
estimated that about five billion dol-
lars of the anticipated 1947 export
excess can be covered. The remainder
will have to be paid for from the
proceeds of private investments,
American remittances abroad and
foreign reserves of gold and foreign
exchange but that is only for the
current year. The pressing demand
for our products from war-starved
countries will not be satisfied for
quite a number of years to come. _

“We should therefore be consider-
ing long-range plans for meeting
those needs and at the same time for
sustaining our export trade, The draft
on our resources will, no doubt,
diminish as rehabilitation goes for-
ward.

“Moreover, the countries aided will
in time be able to increase their ex-
ports to us, and so earn dollars—
provided, of course, we are prepared
to receive goods in payment. Never-
theless, further financing of hard-
pressed foreign countries beyond the
amounts already authorized will be
essential. The blunt and inescapable
fact is that the United States is the
only country in a position to meet
that financial need.”

The New York Times, noting that
the ,,desease of hunger” has spread
during and after the war from India
and China to Russia and the Balkans

15

“The United States haSidone much
in shipping food abroad. It must do
more, selling for cash where it can,
for credit where it must, on some sort
of lease-lend arrangement where no
more is possible, giving relief where
there is no other resource.”

Putting emphasis on practical aspect
the Times concluded that "We cannot
be prosperous in an unprosperous
world."

‘Commentator Joseph Alsop analyzed
problem this way:

“The prospect of a worldwide
monetary crisis is the cause. And
while the mechanics of a monetary
crisis may be mysterious to all but
the experts, the results will be more
hunger, more insecurity, a weakening
effort to reconstruct, and further poli-
tical deterioration in many of the
key regions of the world.”

Declaring that no one can predict
just when or how the developing
monetary crisis will become acute,
Alsop added:

“But the facts—that the crisis is
developing, and developing much
faster than even the pessimists had
expected—are no longer disputed.
That is the meaning of the carefully
expressed speech of warning of Under-
Secretary of State Acheson.”

The problem, Alsop and other com-
mentators agreed, entails the neces-
sity of United States making an im-
portant decision, with the choice
much the same—but on a_ larger
scale—than that of aid to Greece and
Turkey.

Erwin Canham, editor of The
Christian Science Monitor, said in a
radio commentary:

"It will take a lot of oratory to
persuade Congress to permit vast im-
ports, or to make still larger foreign
loans. Yet that is the program that
President Truman and Secretary Mar-
shall are convinced is necessary in
order to save the peace for which we
have paid such a very large price
already.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
BIZONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL

new development in the joipt
Parconomic plan for the US ano
British Zones of Germany is effective
10 June when a German bizonal Eco-
nomic Council is formed.

Gen. Lucius D. Clay, US Military
Governor, and Lt. Gen, Sir Brian
Robertson, British Deputy Military
Governor, reached agreement 29 May
on the formation of the new council
which is to act as the highest German
agency for the two zones and is to
have supervisory authority over the
bizonal German agencies now in
existence.

The Council is not to act as a par-
liament since it is to operate under
the direct control of the Bipartite
US/UK Board and its functions are to
be limited strictly to the economic
field, Bizonal agencies already in
existence are to be able to use powers
they have not before exercised, but
those powers are still subject to the
over-all approval of the Bipartite
Board. Their decisions, therefore, are
to have: the force of directives rather
than regulations.

Members of the new council are to
be chosen from the parliaments of
the various Laender, but how and
upon what basis the selection is to
be made has not yet been determined.
All expenditures of capital funds for
the new organization are to continue
as before on a 50—50 basis by the
British and United States Govern-
ments.

Proclamation No. 5, the text of

which appears below, announces the
formation of this Economic Council:

Article I, Functions of the Economic
Council — The Economic Council
shall have power, within the US Zone
(including Land Bremen):

(1) To direct the permissible eco-
nomic reconstruction of the Zone,
subject to the approval of the Bi-
partite Board,

(2) To adopt and promulate or-
dinances on the administration of
railroads, maritime ports and coastal
shipping, inland water transport, inter-
Land inland waterways and communi-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

cations and postal services; to adopt
and promulgate ordinances dealing
with matters of general policy affect-
ing more than one Land with respect
to inter-Land highways and highway
transport; production, allocation and
distribution of goods, raw materials,
gas, water and electricity; foreign
and internal trade; price formation
and price control; production, im-
portation, collection, allocation, and
distribution of food; public finance,
currency, credit, banking and pro-
perty control; and civil service
management of bizonal department
personnel; and such other functions
as may from time to time be de-
termined by the Bipartite Board.
Such ordinances are subject to the
approval of the Bipartite Board. The
approval of the Board to each or-
dinance shall be indicated by an in-
dorsement stating that it has received
such approval under the terms of this
Article. Except where these Economic
Council ordinances with Bipartite
Board approval specifically reserve to
the Economic Council or delegate to
the Executive Committee or Executive
Directors the power to issue im-
plementing regulations pursuant to
the ordinances, the Laender shall
Promptly implement the ordinances.

(3) To adopt and promulgate, subject
to approval as set forth in Par (2)
above, ordinances allocating to the
Economic Council, the Executive Com-
mittee or the Executive Directors the
power to issue implementing regu-

ations under specific existing legis-

lation which is within the fields re-
ferred to in Par (2).

(4) To delegate such of its powers
as may be deemed appropriate to the
Executive Commitee, except for the
power to adopt and promulgate or-
dinances set forth in Par(2) above
and the power of appointment set
forth in Par (5) below.

(5) To appoint, from nominations
made by the Executive Committee,
and to remove, upon its own motion,
the Executive Directors. To define the
functions of the Executive Directors
and their relations to the Economic

16

Council, the Executive Committee,
and the Laender.

(6) To consider and pass the annual
estimates of revenue and expenditure
of the Council and of its departments.

Article II, Functions of the Exe-
cutive Committee—The Executive
Committee shall have power, within
the United States Zone:

(1) To propose and make recommen-
dations on ordinances for adoption
by the Economic Council.

(2) To issue implementing regu-
lations within the scope of the
authority delegated to the Executive
Committee by the Economic Council.

(3) To coordinate and supervise the
execution of ordinances and imple-
menting regulations by the Executive

Directors in accordance with the
policies adopted by the Economic
Council.

Article III, Functions of Executive
Directors—In accordance with the
policies adopted by the Economic
Council and under the supervision of
the Executive Committee, the Exe-
cutive Directors:

(1) Shall direct the operation of
their respective departments.

(2) May issue implementing regu-
lations.

(3) Will be the chief accounting
officers for their own departments
and, subject to such instruction and
such central financial control as may
be approved by the Economic Coun-
cil, the financial and accounting oper- ;
ation of the agencies shall be under
their general management and super-
vision.

Article IV, Effect of Economic
Council Ordinances—Ordinances is-
sued by the Economic Council pur-
suant to the provisions of Article I
of this Proclamation or implementing
regulations issued under such or-
dinances shall not be inconsistent
with Control Council legislation, but,
subject to this, shall be superior to

9 JUNE 1947

--- Page 20 ---
any German enactment, and shall be
binding on all Courts,

Article V, Transitional Provisons—
Until otherwise provided by any
ordinance of the Economic Council,
Military Government Ordinance No 14,
set forth in Appendix “B" to this Pro-
clamation and promulgated herewith,
shall be in force in the United States
Zone.

Article VI, Effective Date—This
Proclamation ‘shall come into force on
10 June 1947,

ee. eS

Appendix “A” to Proclamation No.5

Preamble

Pending the creation of administ-
rative and governmental institutions
for Germany as a whole, and in order
to facilitate the solution of pressing
economic problems and the recon-
struction of economic life by populary
controlled German agencies operating
under broad responsibilities, the Mili-
tary Governments of the British and
US Zones have agreed to a bizonal
reorganization for the purpose only
of a more complete economic integ-

ration under the following plan,
which will be implemented by
Military. Government Proclamation

or Military Government Ordinance
published simultaneously in the two
Zones,

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

1. A body known as the Economic
Council shall be selected by the
Landtage of the various Laender.

2. A full-time coordinating and
executive body known as the Exe-
cutive Committee shall also be
established. Its functions and relation-
ships to the Economic Council are
defined below.

3. The administration of the several
bizonal departments shall be entrusted
to Executive Directors responsible to
the Economic Council and under the
immediate supervision of the Exe
cutive Committee as defined below.

4. Maximum responsibility for the
conduct of bizonal functions shall be
delegated by Military Government to
German agencies with due regard to
the principle of decentralization of
administration.

9 JUNE 1947

A twelve-foot bronze cannon, removed from France by the Nazis
during the war, was found in Stuttgart and returned to the Army
Museum in Paris where it had been on display from 1831 to 1940.
The cannon, weighing two and half tons and beautifully decorated,
is shown above being inspected by a group of French officials and

Capt. Edith A. Standen (right) of the Monuments,

Fine Arts, and

Archives Office of OMG for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

(ARMY SIGNAL CORPS PHOTO)

5. Decisions of the Economic Coun-
cil and the Executive Committee shall
be taken by majority vote.

ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
1, Economic Council

a. Composition—Representatives
numbering about 54 to be chosen:

(1) By the Landtage and if mem-
bers thereof to resign.

(2) One for each 750,000 popu-
lation or part thereof in excess of
375,000, but not less than one per Land.

(3) In proportion to the division
of political opinion in the Land as
shown by the popular vote in the most
recent Land-wide elections.

b. Functions:

(1) To direct the permissible eco-
nomic reconstruction of the two Zones
subject to the approval of the
Bipartite Board.

(2) To. adopt and promulgate or-
dinances on the administration of rail-
ways, maritime ports and coastal ship-
ping, inland water transport, inter-
Land inland waterways and com-
munications and postal services; to

17

adopt and promulgate ordinances deal-
ing with respect to inter-Land high-
ways and highway transport; pro-
duction, allocation and distribution of
goods, raw materials, gas, water and
electricity; foreign and internal
trade; price formation and price con-
trol; production, importation, collec-
tion, allocation, and distribution of
food; public finance, currency, credit,
banking and property control and
civil service management of bizonal
department personnel; and such other
functions as may from time to time
be determined by the Bipartite Board.
Such ordinances are subject to the
approval of the Bipartite Board. The
approval of the Board to each or-
dinance shall be indicated by an in-
dorsement stating that it has received
such approval under the terms of Ar-
ticle I (2) of the Military Government
Ordinance by which the Council is
given its powers. Except where those
Economic Council ordinances with
Bipartite Board approval specifically
reserve to the Economic Council or
delegate to the Executive Committee
or Executive Directors. the power to

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
issue implementing regulations pur-
suant to the ordinances, the Laender
shall promptly implement the or-
dinances; .

(3) To adopt and promulgate, sub-
ject f0 approval as set forth in Par (2)
above, ordinances allocating to the
Economic Council, the Executive Com-
mittee, or the Executive Directors,. the
power to issue implementing regula-
tions under specific existing legisla-
tion which is within the fields re-
ferred to in Par (2) above;

(4) To delegate such of its powers
as may be deemed appropriate to the
Executive Committee, except for the
power fo adopt and promulgate or-
dinances set forth in Par (2) above
and the power of appointment set
forth in Par (5) below.

(5) To appoint, from nominations
made by the Executive Committee,
and to remove, upon its own motion,
the Executive Directors. To define
the functions of the Executive Direc-
tors and their relations to the Eco-
nomic Council, the Executive Com-
mittee and the Laender.

(6) To consider and pass the annual
estimates of revenue and expenditure
of the Council and of its departments.

2. Executive Committee

a. Composition—One representative
from each Land appointed by the
Land Government who will serve on
a full-time basis. Members of the
Executive Committee shall attend all
meetings of the Economic Council as
non-voting members. ,

b. Functions:

(1) To propose and make recom-
mendations on ordinances for adop-
tion by the Economic Council.

(2) To issue implementing regu-
lations within the scope of the author-
ity delegated to the Executive Com-
mittee by the Economic Council.

(3) To coordinate and supervise the
execution of ordinances and imple-
menting regulations by the Executive
Directors, in accordance with the pol-
icies adopted by~ the Economic
Council.

3, Executive Directors

a. Selection—Each bizonal depart-
ment will be headed by an Executive
Director selected from nominations by

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Executive Committee and appoint-
ed and removed by the Economic
Council. The Directors will operate
under the immediate supervision of
the Executive Committee but will have
general responsibility to the Economic
Council,

b. Functions—In accordance with the
policies adopted by the Economic
Council and under the supervision
of the Executive Committee.

(1). The Executive Directors will
direct the operation of their re-
spective departments.

(2) The Executive Directors may
issue implementing regulations. ,

(3) The Executive Directors shall
be the Chief accounting officers for
their own departments and, subject
to such instructions and such central
financial controls as may be approved
by the Economic Council, the financial
and accounting operations of the
agencies shall be under their general
management and supervision.

DECENTRALIZATION OF
ADMINISTRATION

In accordance with the principle of
decentralization of administration,
maximum use will be made of.Land
Governments in the performance of
bizonal functions and in the issuance
of appropriate orders and instructions
carrying out the ordinances of the
economic Council as supplemented by
the implementing regulations.

Except for those functions which
are not under Land administration but
which are under the direct adminis-
tration of bizonal offices in accordance
with approved ordinances of the Eco-
nomic Council, the ordinances of the
Economic Council as supplemented by
the implementing regulations are bind-
ing upon the Laender and must be
promptly executed by them.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

The abolition of the Bizonal Exec-
utive/Joint Committees and the
transfer of their functions in whole
or in part to the Economic Council,
Executive Committee and Executive
Directors will be effected by an ordi-
nance adopted by the Economic
Council and approved by the Bipar-
tite Board. Until the effective date

18

of this ordinance, the Bizonal Exec-
utive/Joint Committees shall con-
tinue to function as before. During the
interim period they shall exercise
their present powers as supplemented
by these set forth in the proposed
Ordinance relating to Production,
Allocation and Distribution of Goods
and Raw Materials, and any other or-
dinance which may be approved by
the Bipartite Board.

RELATIONSHIPS OF BIZONAL OR-
GANIZATIONS TO MILITARY
GOVERNMENT

The German administrative organi-
zation set forth above shall be con-
trolled by joint Military Government
agencies which shall be given the
following titles and functions:

a. Bipartite Board

(1) Consisting of the Military Go-
vernor or Deputy Military Governors
of CCG (BE) and OMGUS;

(2) Will review and approve ordi-
nances and decisions of the Economic
Council; issue instructions to the
Economic Counicil and the Executive
Committee and exercise overall con-
trol of the operations of the entire
administrative organization.

b. Bipartite Control Office

(1) Consisting of one British and
one U.S. Chairman and the members
of the several Bipartite functional
panels noted below.

(2) Will represent the Bipartite
Board in the conduct of day-to-day
administrative control of the Exec-
utive Committee and, through it, the
Executive Directors.

(3) Will maintain a joint secre-
tariat and liaison staff as the channel
of communication between Military
Government and the Econimic Council
and its subordinate agencies.

c. Bipartite Panels

(1) Consisting of U.S. and British
representatives for each of the pre-
sent or subsequently created functions;

(2) Will observe and review and,
through the Bipartite Control Office,
exercise control of the operation of
their respective departments.

(Editor's Note: Annex “B," mentio*
ned in the above Proclamation will bé
carried in’ a future issue of the
Weekly Information Bulletin.) ate

9: JUNE toa? °

--- Page 22 ---
Duty of Democratic
Press is Emphasized

The importance of reporting news
objectively, of criticizing govern-
mental activities constructively, and
of taking the van in the fight for a
democratic Germany were emphasized
by Dr. James R. Newman, Director of
OMG Hesse, as basic obligations of
the free Hessian press.

Speaking at a luncheon conference
attended by licensees from Hesse’s
ten newspapers, Dr. Newman told the
German newsmen that they have "a
duty to be honest, a duty to expound
beliefs fairly, a duty to report the
news, and above all, a duty to keep
news reporting free from editorial
beliefs—in other words, keep the
editorials in the editorial column and
the news in the news column.”

Dr. Newman commended press sup-
port of the Hessian Government and
its officials, "This does not infer,” he
said, “that you must approve blindly
all things done by the government,
but means, rather, that you must
carry the news of its activities to the
people correctly, Futhermore, your
criticism of the government and its
affairs must be constructive, and not
based on petty dislikes or petty dis-
agreements along purely political
party lines.”

Equipment Returned

Forty carloads of hospital equip-
ment and supplies will shortly be
shipped from Neuburg in the US Zone
to Hungary in satisfaction of claims
submitted to OMGUS by the Hun-
garian Restitution Mission, according
to an announcement by the Restitution
Branch, OMGUS.

The shipment will serve to alleviate
a shortage described as desperate by
American observers in Hungary. Upon
completation of remaining investi-
gation and inventory checks, an ad-
ditional 55 carloads is expected to be
shipped from Neuburg.

The hospital equipment was ori-
ginally captured during combat ope-
rations of the Third US Army against
the German and Hungarian forces in
the vicinity of Ingolstadt, Germany.
Thereafter the equipment was turned
Over first to Prisoner of War hospitals,

9 JUNE 1947

largely populated by Hungarian pri-
soners, then to a Third US Army
operated hospital for displaced per-
sons, and in part finally to UNRRA.

Censorship Limits

All personnel within Germany are
subject to civil censorship unless
entitled or privileged to use Army
Post Office facilities as outlined in
EUCOM Letter, AG 311.7 GBI—AGO,
"Identification of Personnel Exempted
from Censorship,” 9 May 1947. Person-
nel thus entitled to use APO facilities
and the identification each must have
were listed as follows:

US Army officers (WD AGO Form 65),
US Army enlisted personnel (ET
Form 1—9), US Navy or Marines of-
ficers and enlisted personnel (N Nav
546), US civilians with US Armed
Forces in EUCOM area (WD AGO
Form 65), Allied or neutral civilian
WD employees (ETO AG Form No. 8),
dependents of US military personnel
and WD civilian employees (WD AGO
Form 65, or ET Form 1—16), De-
pendents of other personnel (ET Form
1—16), UNRRA personnel (Class "A"
identification book), military and ci-
vilian personnel of Allied and neutral
countries attached to the US Army
(validated picture pass issued by
Allied Contact Section).

The EUCOM letter also directs that
telephone, cable, telegraph, or postal
communications of persons entitled or
privileged to APO facilities, but not
established as exempted traffic under
the provisions specified in the letter,
are subject to censorship.

Form of Oath

Amendment No.3 to MG Law No.2
“German Courts", as given in OMGUS
letter AG 010.6 (LD), Form of Oath,
20 May 1947 inserts par 8a in the law
to read:

“Any person who is required to
take an oath by any Military Govern-
ment Law or German law thereof or
enacted or to be enacted hereafter
may, in lieu thereof, make an affir-
mation. Any person who shall make
a false affirmation shall be punished
as for the making of a false oath
under German law."

The German translation is included.

19

Farm Body Formed

Acting upon suggestions of Ame-
rican experts at present in the
US Zone, the Laenderrat has esta-
blished an agricultural council to
study research, education, home eco-
nomics, cooperatives, and related
phases of modern farming.

Committees of the council, with re-
presentatives from the three agricul-
tural Laender of the US Zone, are at
present cooperating with the Ameri-
can experts in their respective field
in a zonewide study of farming and
related conditions and practices with
a view toward bringing about improve-
ments.

Purposes of the council tentatively
have been outlined as follows:

To confer and cooperate with simi-
lar organizations in other zones and
with Bizonal Executive Committee for
Food and Agriculture.

To consider and make recommen-
dation on plans for the reconstruction
and expansion of agricultural edu-
cation, extension, and research.

To sponsor and facilitate the ex-
change of agricultural experts and of
scientific agricultural literature be-
tween Germany and other countries
and to establish a committee to work
with agricultural experts from other
countries.

To begin reconstructing contacts
between German agricultural insti-
tutions and those of other countries.

To consider and to make recommen-
dations on goals and programs for
German agriculture in the postwar
period.

To consider what agricultural co-
operatives and farmers’ organizations
should do to help establish and
achieve these goals.

Forms Discontinued

Land OMG Directors have been
notified by OMGUS cable V-18456
of 16 May that OMGUS contemplates
directing immediate discontinuance
of the use of Military Government/
Public Safety Form 6 as the inter-
zonal travel pass, Request is made
for an estimate of the number of
pass forms needed monthly under
Control Council Directive No. 43 for
the next six months.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Army Exchange Service Procure-
ment of Special Services Equipment
for Posts and Units, AG 400.12 SSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 April 1947.
Rescinds ETO letter AG 400.312
OpGA of 4 June 1945 and refers to
USFET letter AG 475 GAP-AGO of
7 October 1946.

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Requests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
2 May 1947. Concerns MG replies of
29 April 1947.

Consolidation of Small Unit Facilit-
ies, AG 322 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
3 May 1947.

Accounting for PeniciJlin, European
Command, AG 440 MCH-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 5 May 1947.

European Command Technical Ser-
vice Organization, AG 322 GDS-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 7 May 1947.

Travel of Dependents of Military
Personnel Overseas, AG 292 (510)
GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 7 May 1947.
Quotes WD letter concerning move-
ment as tourists on non-WD spon-
sored travel and prohibition on re-
imbursement claims.

Property Accountability, AG 140
GSD-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947.
Amends par 9 and 10 of letter of
5 April 1947.

Turn in of Ambulance Heaters, AG
451.01 ORD-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 May
1947, Concerns heaters installed in
vehicles other than ambulances.

Identification of Personnel Exempt-
ed from Censorship, AG 311.7 GBI-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947 (See
separate item).

Population Statistics, AG 091.4
(CA), OMGUS, 9 May 1947. Cites
responsibility of Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, for compiling
these figures and restrictions of
publication or use of other than CAD
compilations.

Changes No. 2, USFET SOP 89,
Command Maintenance Inspections,
Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947. Lists several
changes and required forms.

Military Posts, AG 322 GCT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947. Concerns
Frankfurt Military Post and Wies-
baden Air Field,

EUCOM Publication, Depot Bulle-
tin 9, Hq EUCOM, 12 May 1947, Lists
distribution 5 to. 9 May 1947, revi-
sions, non-reprints.

Classification of Landline Teletype
Circuits, AG 311.1 SIG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 12 May 1947. Rescinds
USFET letter AG 311.24 ASA-AGO
of 6 January 1947, and inplements
USFET SOP 66 of 3 February 1947.

Advance Revision of Title 9, Public
Safety, Military Government Regula-
tions, AG 010.6 (IA), OMGUS, 15 May
1947, Revises all parts except VIII
and IX.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

Appointment in the Officers’ Re-
serve Corps of those Officers now
on Active Duty, AG 210.1 AGP-B, Hq
EUCOM, 15 May 1947. Refers to pro-
visions of several WD circulars, par-
ticular WD Cir 97 of 1947, The first
indorsement provides applications of
MG personnel be forwarded through
OMGUS (Attn. AG Mil Pers).

Historical Program of the European.

Command, AG 314.7 HIS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 16 May 1947.

Civilian Training, AG 353 GAP-
AGE, Hq EUCOM, 15 May 1947, Con-
cerns indigenous personnel and re-
sponsibily for program.

Reaction Following the Admin-
istration of Certain Parenteral So-
lutions, AG 440 MCH-AGO, Hq
EUCOM,.15 May 1947, Concerns cer-
tain medical items.

Personal Use of US Army Vehic-
les, AG 451 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
15 May 1947. Concerns official and
personal use of vehicles in critical
supply.

Excess Stocks within Military Posts,
AG 400.7 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
17 May 1947. Gives procedure for
reporting such stocks (note amend-
ment below).

Control Council Directive No. 51,
AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 19 May 1947.

Amendement No. 3 to Military Gov-
ernment Law No. 2—"Form of Oath",
AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 20 May 1947
(see separate item).

OMGUS Action on Laenderat Re-
quests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
20 May 1947, Concerns replies of
14 May 1947.

Hours of Duty and Overtime, Per-
sonnel Bulletin H-36, F-19, OMGUS,
20 May 1947. Incorporates into one
document all existing OMGUS direc-
tives concerning hours: of duty and
overtime for all OMGUS installations.

D-Day, AG 006 GAP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 21 May 1947.

Excess Stocks within Military
Posts, AG 400.7 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 21 May 1947. Amends par
3d of letter of 17 May 1947 (note
above).

Allied Entertainment and Bands,
AG 353.8 SSp-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
21 May 1947. Prohibits hiring or con-
tracting such in violation of USFET
letter “Civilian Entertainment” - of
20 January 1947.

Chemical Corps Ammunition Train-
ing Allowances for Air Force Units,
Training Memorandum No. 2, Hq
EUCOM, 21 May 1947.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
23 May 1947. Concerns reply . of
21 May 1947.

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Requests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
26 May 1947. Concerns reply of
23 May 1947.

Administrative Trade Union Report,
Manpower Memorandum No. 80,
OMGUS, 26 May 1947. Gives revision
in frequency and form of report. :

Air Mail Service to the US, Staff
Memorandum No. 26, OMGUS,
28 May 1947. Concerns official mail:

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF