--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 97 / 16 JUNE 1947

KARLSRUHE RUBBLE

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
OPF MARBURG

LAUTERBACH.
OBER &
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN
‘eee QBERTAUNUS|
cS,

OFFENBACH

ROTEN BURG

DIEBURG
BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH

HEILBRONN

LEONBERG bf

BRUCHSAL

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

(photo by Rosenberg)

KARLSRUHE RUBBLE—Heaps of rubble,
as the one in Karlsruhe pictured on the
cover, make fine subjects for photography
_ but dangerous places for children io play.

How Karlsruhe is cleaning up this war TABLE OF CONTENTS

wreckage is told in the article on page 3.

Issue No. 97 16 June 1947

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Katisrule Cleats Tip Ge oe a he SS
Reopening Labor Courts of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden was written by Theodore Lapp, The Women and Reconstruction . pes)
Chief of the Labor Disputes and Social
§ Insurance Branch, Manpower Division, Reopening Labor: Courts: . 2 i502 ("eas ss eee,
/OMGWB. Mr. Lapp discusses the Labor
Courts of Germaay as a whole with Food Situation® Improves . <. 3) 3 eg
special emphasis on the work of the newly
opened courts of Wuerttemberg-Baden. Books on Germany, Part3 . . . .. . pancoggee
Material for Women and Reconstruction : A
was, furnished by “Bla Fay “Harenorie, US Stake in German Economic Recovery ... . 13
/ Education and Religious Affairs Branch, Genman’ Reactions 4). ga a

IA&C Division, who attended the German

Women's Conference at Bad Boll discussed 5
iy ho ‘arene: Official Instructions 4): ieee bina oe eee

: Karlsruhe Cleans Up is based on facts
j furnished by Major William T. Neel, Chief
of the Housing Branch, Manpower Division,
OMGWB, Major Neel was formerly in
. ge of Military Government in Karlsruhe.
Books on Germany—Special Books is
, the third in a series of four articles on
* Material available on Germany, past and
pPresent. The current bibliography was
Prepared ief Libra-
an, ee ome Libra- OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

“Tian, OMGUS Reference Library. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

:

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
arlsruhe stands at the head of all

German cities in rubble clearance,
having found that the clean-up pro-
gram has an important psycho-
logical influence on its citizens, The
effort to remove the scars of war has
been reflected in a more active effort
to rebuild the economy of the area
and the apathy which handicaps so
many German cities is not apparent
there. These are the views of Major
Clair S. Keena, in charge of Military
Government for the city.

The Karlsruhe program is based on
the idea of ,,Ehrendienst” or honor
work, Every able-bodied male citizen
contributes a certain number of work-
ing hours to clearing away the debris
of bombing, without pay, “for the
honor of the city.”

The program was started about a
year ago by Major William T. Neel,
who is now Chief of the housing
branch of the Office of Military Gov-
ernment for Wuerttemberg-Baden, but
who was then the energetic MG
chief of Karlsruhe. British-born Major
Neel, after an early post-war visit to
England, said: “I saw how success-
fully the British had cleaned up
Southampton and came back imbued

(left) The shell of the castle of King
Louis in Karlsruhe (photo by Rosen-
berg. (right) The men who. inspired
Karlsruhe's clean-up program. At right
is Major William T. Neel inspecting
plans with German leaders as Lt. Col.
Eugene P. Walters looks on. At left is
Chief Mayor Hermann Veit (photo
from Karlsruhe MG).

16 JUNE 1947

with the idea of getting Karlsruhe
cleaned up so rebuilding could be
started.”

It took him about six weeks to get
the idea sold to the German city
officials; he wanted the program to
be backed fully by the local citizens,
with MG merely. furnishing the
impetus. He found the Chief .Mayor,
Hermann Veit, now Minister of Econ-
omics for | Wuerttemberg - Baden,
enthusiastic. Veit wanted to get the
whole town behind the project, and
through announcement, posters, and
full page displays in the local news
paper he saw that everybody knew
about it,

The clean-up was started on a Sat-

y urday afternoon, and the mayor and

other city officials put on overalls
and led the work. “This was very
effective," Major Neel explained, “‘be-
cause of the strong German feeling
toward the dignity which holding
public office confers on a man.”
Sixteen hundred men pitched in to
move rubble along with the officials,
and the program was off to a good
start.

The magnitude of the task which
confronted the citizens of this once-
lovely little town can be visualized
by these figures: In 1939 there were
35,911 buildings of all types available
in Karlsruhe. Of these 7,790 were
totally destroyed during the war,
4,535 were 50 to 60 percent damaged,
5,218 were 30 to 50 percent damaged,
and 10,920 were damaged up to
30 percent. Only 21 percent, or 7,386
of the buildings which formerly stood
in the town, remained undamaged.
The quantity of rubble which needed
to be cleaned away was estimated
to be one and a half million cubic
meters.

The project has not always gone
smoothly. Mayor Veit ran into an in-
itial -hornet's nest over the issuance
of voluntary work cards to everyone
participating in the program. These
cards indicated that the holder was
engaged in “honor work,” but the
local political parties charged in-
dignantly that it was all right for ex-
Nazis to help clean up the havoc they

--- Page 7 ---
had wrought, but it certainly wasn't
all right for them to have the word
“honor” connected with anything they
did. This was finally ironed out satis-
factorily to all after the situation
was explained in the newspaper.

One of the chief guarantees of the
success of the program was the de-
cision of employees to continue pay-
ing the salary of all employees
absent from the job because they
were engaged in rubble clearance.

A careful scale of the amount of
honor work expected of each citizen
was drawn up. Men charged for past-
party activities reasons are expected
to work 20 days if employed, 30 days
of not employed. Men not charged
for such political reasons are ex-
pected to work 14 days when em-
ployed, 30 days when unemployed.

It was discovered that the value of
a man's work was greater if he did
it in one stretch, instead of a day
here and a day there. Working conti-
nously he became more interested
in what he was accomplishing, be-
came more efficient, achieved more.

So a bonus, in the form of fewer
required days of work was set up.
If working the whole period without
interruption a 30-day stretch is cut
by three days, a 20-day period by
two days, and a ten-day assignment
by one day.

Women have never taken part in
the project, which constitutes.one of
its main flaws, Major Neel believes.
He feels it would help the morale
and spirit of the city, in addition to
getting the job more quickly done,
if the men and women worked to-
gether, and there is plenty of lighter
type work which they could do. Two
reasons seem to have prevented this.
Karlsruhe is a city of respectable,
middle class bourgeoise, and the
women feel that engaging in manual
labor is socially degrading. In spite
of the ruin and the collapse of their
culture, this notion persists,

Then too, in a city so badly
destroyed, housekeeping and the care
of a family have become a more
complicated and timeconsuming then
before. However, if someone could

Cleared sites and neatly piled bricks mark the progress of the rubble-clearance
program in Karlsruhe. Scenes as pictured below are becoming more common

in that Wuerttemberg-Baden city.

(photo by Rosenberg)

persuade the wives of the city offi-
cials to turn out and move a few
bricks, probably the entire feminine
population would be appearing in
coveralls the next days, and the work
would get new impetus.

A great deal has been accom-
plished. Around 400,000 cubic meters
of rubble have been cleared away.
Along with clearing the streets and
opening the way for new construc-
tion, much of the rubble has been
salvaged, Six and a half million
bricks, 20,000 cubic meters of sand-
stone, 800 tons of steel beams, 500
cubic meters of lumber, and 18,000 me-
ters of gas and water piping have
been recovered.

An excellent by-product of the
work are new, highly desirable
building sites near the Rhine port,
which are being created out of marshy
land filled in with rubble. Here the
city's industries will be rebuilt, ac-
cording to the over-all plan.

The tools used have been simple,
considering what has been done:
25 kilometers of gauge railroad, seven
steam locomotives up to 100 horse-
power, 12 Diesel locomotives up to
40 horsepower, 250 small tip carts

(Continued on page 22)

--- Page 8 ---
THE WOMEN

AND

RECONSTRUCTION

fter years of suppression, German

‘women's groups again are meeting
together, gradually developing powers
of discussion and a sense of respon-
sibility for activities in their country.
Because the first steps of reorganiza-
tion are difficult after years of no
practice, the conference of German
women held last month at Bad Boll
was partially a success and somewhat
a disappointment.

Representatives of women's organi-
zations from all over Germany met to
acquaint each other with activities
now in progress, pool their experience
and ideas, and discuss the part that
women could and should play in the
reconstruction of Germany. Their first
objective was realized; the second
and third only to a limited degree, and
the Germans felt this more keenly
than the British and American guests
whose expectations had been set
less high. ¥

The effort to form a German-wide
group was unsuccessful because many
delegates believed that they did not
come provided with that authority.
They felt that such a decision would
be too sudden and that such an or-
ganization should be built more slowly
on firmer foundations. It was the
general opinion that the true and very
great value of the conference lay in
the mutual acquaintance of a large
number of leading women in different
zones from different walks of life and
political viewpoints, and that the
foundations for co-operation and un-
derstanding were being laid through
this acquaintance.

The number of delegates was deli-
berately set at only 85, the capacity
of the conference buildings at Bad
Boll, so that the women could live
together in the country and continue
their discussions unhampered between
meetings. Actually interest was so

16 JUNE 1947

By Elsa Fay Hartshorne

great that 204 delegates appeared,
some without invitations, and managed
to find places to stay in the neigh-
borhood.

Delegates from all four zones ap-
peared, although those representing
the Soviet Zone were zone workers
living in Berlin. Forty-two organizati-
ons were represented, including some
of the largest of the non-partisan
women’s organizations, such as the
Sueddeutsche Frauenarbeitskreis and
the Frauenverband Hesse. Represen-
tation was predominantly on the side
of church workers and _ professional
women, with only a scattering from
whitecollar, labor, and farm workers.
All political parties within Germany
were represented. Efforts to bring in
women from outside Germany were
unsuccessful.

The speeches, for the most part, did
not get beyond generalizations, on
which all parties agree, but a few
offered concrete applications, on
which they do not agree. The ori-
ginal plan of dividing into several
discussion groups for part of the pro-
gram, as suggested by the American
guests at the planning committee
meeting, was abandoned. Discussion
as a technique leading to action has
not been fostered in Germany. Opin-
ions were expressed with freedom
and received with tolerance, but there
was very little real discussion. It
was an encouraging sign, however,
that there seemed to be a general
tealization of this lack which is the
first step towards improvement.

The proportion of younger people
and the share they were given in the
conference were too small despite
much talk about the important part
they must play.

The principal speaker at the first
day's meeting on “Peace and Inter-
national Understanding” was Frau
von Zahn-Harnack, founder and presi-
dent of the “Wilmersdorfer Frauen-
bund 1945” and one of the early work-
ers for woman suffrage. Inserted into
the middle of her speech, to under-
line the absolute necessity of avoiding
any future war, was a description of
atomic energy and the atomic bomb
given by the physicist Freda Wuest-
hoff, from Lindau. The immense popu-
larity of this talk showed how thirsty
the women were for precise knowledge
about atomic energy, and their re-
actions indicated that widespread in-
formation might be the best preven-
tive of war.

In the afternoon, Katarina von Kar-
dorff of Berlin spoke. She is a for-
mer member of the Reichstag and her
husband was for many years its vice-
president. Hers was a plea for the
unification of Germany, for eéonomic
recoveryan appeal to women that the
fault for the past lies with men, that
the women have let themselves be
tuled too long.

A most effective talk was delivered
by Frau Thea Baehnisch of Hanover,
the only woman president of a Re-
gierungsbezirk in Germany. A woman
of about 45, a direct, efficient, and
forceful personality, she said she had
not intended, when elected, to con-
cern herself with women’s problems,
but was soon forced to do so, standing
as she did “in splendid isolation”
among the men. She had to decide
whether to execute her job as a man
(for which she had the preparation),
but chose instead to work from the
point of view of a woman and found
that her influence showed as little as
a spring in a desert. Women have
come through the war less damaged;
they are tougher, and they comprise
almost two-thirds of the votes. These
facts make the small part women now
play in public life something to be
ashamed of, she insisted. Somehow
women's interest in this work must
be captured.

Frau Baehnisch saw in non-partisan
women's organizations the solution to
this need, and said that work only
through the parties is entirely in-
sufficient. This is one opportunity to

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
crystalize women's opinions and make
them felt, she said, but warned at the
same time that if the work were not
truly non-partisan the opportunity
would be lost and with it any chance
for women’s influence for all time.

Frau Baehnisch described the con-
crete gains which had been made in
Hanover by the committees of the
non-partisan women's organizations.
On one of these a Communist labor
leader sat next to a nun working out
together such practical problems as
the creation of a women’s secretariat
to guide people through the maze of
bureaucratic procedure, the spreading
of information on the use of corn in
cooking, the designing and manufac-
turing of cheap, simple, durable fur-
niture. Frau Baehnisch closed with
the statement that a “Democratic
Women's League of Germany” was
still a dream which could be realized
only by slow and careful building
from the bottom up.

“Discussion” followed in the form
of talks by anyone who turned in her
name as having something to say.
There were pleas to work through the
political parties as the quickest and
most effective way; protests against
training girls to believe that boys al-
ways take precedence over them.
Conscientious objectors, with pro-
tection by the law, were suggested as
a solution to the problem of war.

The second day was devoted to
youth problems. Frau Heidrich from
Freiburg (French Zone) spoke from
her 20 years’ experience working in
a school in Cuba. She emphasized
the necessity of excluding all fear
from parent-teacher-child _relation-
ships. She described the “three R's”
as taught at her German school as
Reverence, Rectitude, and Responsibi-
lity, and praised the American schools
for their development in children of
a sensibility for the feelings of others,
self-help, and absolute honesty. It
would be impossible, she said, to
imagine a school in Germany where
children did not copy their work from
each other. Some in the audience in-
sisted that this was no longer true.

A place was made for approximately
15 young delegates to sit in front'and
face the room. They were introduced
by Marie Elisabeth Lueders. She was
German Democratic Party member of

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Reichstag under the Weimar Re-
public and is, even now at 60 a vivid
personality who evidently has become
very popular with the younger groups.
She declared—as an economist and
lawyer—that German youth should
bear no guilt; that it was ridiculous
to give them an amnesty, because they
should have been declared not respon-
sible. She herself also could admit
no share in the guilt since she fought
against the Nazi regime.

The young people spoke with a re-
freshing clarity and directness. Their
points of view differed widely, from
those who thought the churches had
failed completely to offer help, to
those who saw the salvation of Ger-
many in a religious revival. They
were mostly students and journalists.
Workers were represented only by a
labor organizer and there was no
delegate from the farm or country
population. Diverse as their opinions
were, they shared distrust and disillu-
sion, an unwillingness to commit them-
selves to a party, and a wish to cast
off nationalism in favor of inter-
nationalism. They had a_ private
meeting in the evening at which they
were outspoken in their criticism of
the long-winded and diffuse talk at
the conference. The ideas of Frau

Dr. Baehnisch also carried much .

weight with them.
The afternoon of the second day

was devoted to education towards

civic responsibility. Several persons
spoke briefly for coeducation and the
elimination of nationalism in teaching.
Frau Kipp-Kaule representing the
Trade Unions (Freier Deutscher Ge-
werkschaftsbund) urged a_ unified
school system without the many
branches which today allow a mono-
poly in education to those who go to
the “higher” branches.

Miss Alice Cameron of the British
Military Government described the
evolution of women's organizations in
England and some of the concrete
things they have accomplished. She
made a distinction between two kinds
of responsibility: one which carries
out orders from above—in which Ger-
mans are well schooled; and the other
which recognizes independently what
is right, and needs doing, and does it.

Frau Barbara von Renthe, new chief
of social welfare for the Soviet Zone,

6

discussed the welfare program being
carried out in eastern Germany. She
said she had the feeling that the
women of the West did not care to
hear about the East and that the West
distrusted the East because they said
“here we can live as we did before
the war.” The audience loudly ex-
pressed opposite views. “We in the
East are not going to build a house
in the old style which would then
fall in,” she stated.

Seized Arms Disposal

The disposal of surrendered or seiz-
ed weapons and ammunition now in
the custody of Military Government
units was explained in OMGUS cable
to Land OMG's. It read:

Officers in charge of MG units will
immediately contact the nearest mili-
tary post commander and arrange for
the immediate turning over and or
disposal by the military post author-
ities of all weapons, ammunition, and
explosive surrendered to or seized by
Military Government during the re-
cent arms amnesty. Army authorities
are being instructed to make arrange-
ments to accept custody and re-
sponsibility for further disposition of
such material.

‘Weapons classified as museum speci-
mens or specimens of historic value
will not be disposed of as provided
in the foregoing. MG officers having
such weapons in their possession, or
knowledge of the location of such
weapons, will request the Monuments,
Fine Arts and Archives Officer of
the Land Office of Military Govern-
ment, or such German authorities as
may be designated by that office, to
approve the classification of such
weapons as museum specimens or
specimens of historic value.

Upon approval of such classification,
the weapons may be placed in a
public museum, provided: the museum
officials approve and the museum is
secure and is not being operated in
violation of Control Council or Mili-
tary Government Enactments.

The Monuments, Fine Arts’ and Ar-
chives Officer of the Land OMG will
at his discretion turn back to the Ger-
man owner those items of this cate-
gory which have no museum value.

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 10 ---
REOPENING LABOR COURTS
OF WUERTTEMBERG - BADEN

ree and independent labor courts,
F compete to hear and try employ-
ment disputes, are again in operation
in the US Zone of Germany. Born
under the Weimar Republic, emas-
culated and rendered impotent under
Nazi domination, these courts re-
ceived a new birth of freedom under
Control Council Law No. 21, ‘“Ger-
man Labor Courts,” approved by the
Control Council on 30 March 1946.

Labor courts, even though retained
beyond Weimar days, became quite
superfluous after the smashing of
trade unionism in May 1933 and the
abolition of the Works Councils Law
by the Nazis. During the Weimar
Republic labor relations were based
upon collaboration between capital
and labor, with a considerable degree
of state intervention, An agreement
reached between various important
employer associations and _ trade
unions on 15 November 1918 deter-
mined to a considerable extent the
course of labor legislation until 1931.

By this agreement, employers re-
cognized trade unions, restrictions
upon the right to organize were de-
clared illegal, company unions were
outlawed, wages and labor condi-
tions were to be regulated by collec-
tive bargaining agreements, and
works councils elected by the work-
ers were to supervise the execution
of these collective agreements. Sub-
sequent labor legislation was but an
attempt to implement the principles
formulated in the 1918 agreement.

These principles were also em-
bodied in the Weimar Constitution of
11 August 1919 (Articles 157—165).
The numerous labor laws and regu-
lations issued during this period re-
quired a vast amount of interpretation
in -terms of ‘specific social and eco-
nomic situations. The answer to this
need was found in the creation of a
separate labor judiciary by the Ger-
man Labor Courts Act of December
1926. The removal of the whole body
of labor law from the competence of
the ordinary courts, and the vesting
of exclusive jurisdiction in a separate
system of courts constituted a re-

16 JUNE 1947

By Theodore Lapp

markable experiment in judical evo-
lution.

There is no American counterpart.
In the United States decisions of the
National Labor Relations Board, a
quasi-judicial agency administering a
law which is in many respects si-
milar to the aforementioned Novem-
ber agreement of 1918, are subject to
review by courts within the regular
federal judiciary system.

Control Council Law No. 21, with
a few important exceptions, reenacts
the German Labor Courts Act of 1926.
The law established, under the Min-
istry of Justice, a system of local
and regional (appellate) labor courts.
The local courts (Arbeitsgerichte)
were courts of the first instance, the
jurisdictional area of which usually
coincided with that of the ordinary
local courts (Amtsgerichte). In
districts where certain industries pre-
dominated and the volume of disputes
warranted, special vocational cham-
bers were set up with exclusive juris-
diction over litigation within parti-
cular industries. The bench was com-
posed of one regular member of the
judiciary as chairman, and two lay
assessors representing employers and
employees respectively.

The Regional Labor Courts (Landes-
arbeitsgerichte) were courts of second
instance and were attached to ordi-
nary regional courts (Landesgerichte).
Appeals could be brought to the Re-
gional Labor Court from the Local
Labor Court in cases where the ob-
ject of litigation, exceeded RM 300,
and in cases involving disputes of a
fundamental legal nature.

The Labor Courts were competent
to hear and try disputes between
parties to wage contracts; disputes
between employers and employees
arising out of their common work;
and disputes between employers and
employees arising out of the applica-
tion of the Works Council Law.

Jurisdiction could be totally ex-
cluded by insertion in collective
agreements of a clause referring all

7

disputes to a conciliation committee
whose composition was specified in
the Labor Court Act itself. Jurisdic-
tion could be partially excluded by
voluntary conciliation or by an agree-
ment to submit all points of fact in-
volved to extra-judicial arbitration,
leaving only decisions on points of
law to the labor court. No profession-
al attorneys were permitted to plead
before courts of the first instance.

During the Nazi regime these tri-
bunals had been gradually deprived
of much of their jurisdiction and of
their democratic composition. With
the suppression of trade unions and
genuine works councils, court juris-
diction was restricted to individual
disputes. The panels of court mem-
bers previously nominated by trade
unions, were designated by the Ger-
man Labor Front (DAF). Upon the
outbreak of war in 1939, the courts
were turned into one-man tribunals.

The operation of these Nazi do-
minated tribunals was suspended by
Military Government Law No, 77. Or-
dinary local courts (Amtsgerichte)
were permitted to reopen in Wuert-
temberg-Baden as early as July 1945.
Soon special chambers were attached
to the ordinary courts, competent to
handle those labor disputes which
had proved incapable of resolution
by the conciliation departments
attached to the labor offices (Arbeits-
amter). Prior to the reopening of se-
parate labor courts, these special
chambers attached to the local courts
had processed a total of 316 out of
the 575 cases referred to them.

Control Council Law No, 21 re-estab-
lished Labor Courts as the only com-
petent adjudicators of civil disputes
arising from coilective and individual
labor agreements and from appren-
ticeship contracts, and restored the
panel system of selecting court mem-
bers from among nominees proposed
by the unions and employers or
employers’ associations.

A noteworthy departure from the
1926 law, was the removal of labor
courts from the supervision of the
Ministry of Justice, and the placing

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
of the courts exclusively ‘under the
Labor Ministry, but for administrative
purposes only. Chairmen and deputy
chairmen of labor courts need no
longer be professional judges, al-
though the presiding officers of the
Regional Courts must have “appro-
priate legal qualifications.”

The creation of an independent labor
judiciary, completely divorced from
the ordinary judicial system, and the
manning of the courts by laymen
qualified by their experience in and
mastery of the technical field of la-
bor relations, embodies the viewpoint
that legalism is not the most com-
plete help in many labor matters and
in maintaining industrial peace,

Delays in Laenderrat

German implementation of Control
Council Law No. 21 suffered numer-
ous delays in the Laenderrat, and
the final approved regulations did not
become effective until 3 December
1946. However, in the meantime on
4 November 1946 the oath of office
was administered in Stuttgart to 20
chairmen and deputy chairmen select-
ed in accordance with the provisions
of the Control Council Law to man
the courts upon their reopening. Co-
lonel William W. Dawson, then Direc-
tor of OMGWB and himself an ex-
pert in the field of labor relations,
hailed the reopening of the labor
courts as a step in attaining the goal
of modern civilization; namely, the
substitution of law and order through
a democratic state, in place of force.

On 18 November 1946 the Regional
Labor Court at Stuttgart and courts
of the first instance at Heilbronn and
Stuttgart were opened. Since that
time, as rapidly as suitable space and
qualified personnel could be found, a
Regional Labor Court has been estab-
lished at Mannheim, along with Labor
Courts at Esslingen, Goeppingen, Hei-
denheim, Heidelberg, Karlsruhe, Lud-
wigsburg, Mannheim, Mosbach,
Schwaebisch Gmuend, Schwaebisch
Hall, Pforzheim, and Ulm.

It is believed that these two appel-
late and 14 Labor Courts will be able
to handle all labor disputes in the
land of Wuerttemberg-Baden with ex-
pedition and dispatch, The neces-
sity for a court decision indicates fail-
ure of the less formal methods of con-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

ciliation, mediation, and arbitration. The
number of cases in which court machi-
nery has been invoked to date is not
alarming. During March 1947, the
two appellate courts received 11 new
cases in addition to hold-overs, dis-
posed of five, leaving a pending bal-
ance of 31 cases. During the same
period a total of 200 new cases were
referred to the labor courts; 204 cases
were disposed of, leaving a pending
balance of 332 cases. Following the
general continental pattern, almost
50 percent of the cases were conclu-
ded by court conciliation. Decisions
had to be rendered in only 25 per-
cent of the cases. Remaining dis-
putes were settled out of court or
withdrawn.

About 75 percent of the cases settl-
ed involved conditions of payment
and dismissal. A substantial number
of the disputes consisted of claims for
back pay where the employment re-
lationship had terminated before the
occupation. Numerous dismissal cases
concerned the propriety of dismissal
as a result of allegedly personal fric-
tion between the employer and em-
ployee, and the amount of notice and
of termination pay. The majority of
cases involved only one individual.
This was probably due to the fact
that wage stabilization policies were
still in effect and to the existence of

shop agreements.

In general, procedure before the Lab-
or Courts is. governed by the Code
of Civil Procedure,
with continental practice, the judge
assumes the dominant role, and ad-
mits any evidence calculated to eluci-
date the points at issue.

Although a suit is usually instituted
by written complaint, a case may be
initiated by oral statement if both
parties are present in court. The
judge may order the personal appear-
ance of the parties at any stage of
the proceedings.

The trial is public, but the judge
has discretion to exclude the public if,
in his opinion, open sessions would
endanger public order, safety, or mo-
tals, or if there is danger that trade
secrets might be divulged.

It is the aim of Labor Courts to
furnish speedy and inexpensive solu-
tions to disputes. If possible, trial and
judgment take place in one session.

8

In accordance -

In no event is judgment to be delay-
ed for more than three days after
the trial, Usually only a single fee,
ranging from RM 1 to 15, depending on

’ the value of the matter in dispute, is

charged. Witnesses and experts are
not under oath unless the tribunal so
orders to insure elicitation of the
truth, Efforts to settle the cases by
conciliation dominate the procedure
at all times.

Summer Schools Set
At Many Universities

International summer schools are
to be held at several of the uni-
versities in the US, British, and
French Zones during the coming
summer, the Education and Religious
Affairs Branch, IA&C Division,
OMGUS, announced.

Sessions will last from two to five
weeks, and attention will be devoted
principally to current trends and
problems in the fields of economics,
international relations, philosophy,
theology, literature, the arts, medi-
cine, and engineering. Faculties will
be composed partially of German
professors, but principally of visiting
scholars from France, England,
America, Sweden, Switzerland, Den-
mark, and other countries.

A limited number of places is open
to qualified young American per-
sonnel living in Germany. Students
wishing to attend courses in the
French Zone, at the Universities of
Tuebingen, Mainz, or Freiburg, must
be at least 20 years old and must
possess-a knowledge of German.

In the British Zone the University
of Kiel will specialize in medicine,
the University of Hamburg in law,
and the Universities of Muenster,
Goettingen, and Bonn in literature,
language, philosophy and allied sub-
jects under the general heading
“Cultural Heritage of Europe.”

' Courses in the US Zone will be
offered at Heidelberg, Marburg, and
Erlangen, plus an engineering con-
ference at Darmstadt. Each course
will consist of a series of basic
lectures common to all schools con-
cerned, to be followed by a series
of special lectures peculiar to the
particular school.

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 12 ---
FOOD SITUATION IMPROVES IN GERMANY

Collections are Better and May Imports Meet Quota, Military
Governor Tells Laenderrat; Bizonal Economic Council Explained

The new bizonal Economic Council
and the food situation were discussed
by General Lucius D. Clay, the Mili-
tary Governor, with the Laenderrat
at its meeting 3 June in Stuttgart.
The text of his speech follows.

Last week I sent by special messen-
ger to the ministers-president a copy
of an agreement for the further in-
tegration of the American and British
Zones worked out by the American
and British Military Governments.
With some minor modifications in the
document as you saw it, it has been
approved and is now an agreement
between the British and American
Military Governments.

As you know, both you and our-
selves have been conscious of the
difficulty in obtaining economic in-
tegration without political integra-
tion. Nevertheless, we have not been
willing to unify the American and
British Zones politically in the fear
that it might be harmful to the early
unification of Germany as a whole.
Thus, the agreement which we have
reached still does not provide for po-
litical unification of the American and
Brifish Zones. On the other hand,
within the field of economics, and
under strictly defined powers, it does
provide an arrangement where the
views of the German people can be
given to the American and British
Military Governments on the econo-
mic policies to be followed by the
two governments.

Elected by Landtage

There is established an Economic
Council which is composed of repre-
sentatives elected by the Landtage of
the several Laender on the basis of
one representative to each. 750,000
persons, with a minimum, of course,
of one representative from each Land
of lesser population. To. the extent
Possible within each Land the repre-
sentatives of the Economic Council
will be proportioned to the political
party strength at the last election. The
Economic Council will be charged

16 JUNE 1947

with the enactment of policies and
ordinances within the field of econo-
mics, subject, of course, to the appro-
val of the British and American Mili-
tary Governments.

In addition to the Economic Council
and to assure co-ordination among the
bizonal economic agencies there is
also established an executive com-
mittee. This executive committee will
be composed of one representative
from each of the Laender. It will
nominate the heads of the executive
agencies for confirmation by the Eco-
nomic Council. It will be authorized
to issue implementing regulations
under the policies and laws of the
Economic Council. It will sit con-
tinuously and will be responsible for
the coordination and supervision of
the several economic agencies.

As an executive agency it must
operate under the policies and or-
dinances of the Economic Council.
However, it is not subordinate to the
Economic Council and it is charged
with co-ordination and supervision of
economic agencies in its own right.
There will, of course, be reporting to
this executive committee, the execu-
tive directors of the several econo-
mic agencies whose duties and func-
tions will be roughly comparable to
that of state secretaries.

The law will become effective on
the tenth of June in the hope that
both the Economic Council and the
executive committee will be selected
by the Laender and will be ready to
work without delay. I know that you
may ask yourselves what the effect of
this law will be on the Laenderrat.
As you know many of these functions
have been transferred by your own
legislation to the existing executive
committees. Moreover, the Economic
Council is not a political body and
its powers are limited.

The Laenderrat, on the other hand,
is a political body and subject to the
approval of Military Government. Its
activities cover the full range of gov-
ernment. The Laenderrat has been

9

a most effective organization since
the day it was formed and it has been
particularly helpful to Military Gov-
ernment in presenting the views of
the German people.

In a personal way it has been most
helpful to me in helping me in the
discharge of my responsibilities. I
hope that you will agree with me,
therefore, that it is most desirable
for the Laenderrat to continue in the
remaining fields of government until
Germany's political unification. That
includes the continuance of our
monthly meetings. .

I would now like to say just a few
words on the subject of food. First,
I would like to congratulate the
Ministers President on the improve-
ments which have been made in the
methods of collecting the food. These
methods, if continued and improved
as I am sure you will continue and
improve them, will do much to better
the collection record from the coming
harvests. The results to date, par-
ticularly in meat collections in Ba-
varia, have been excellent.

Imports meet Quota

At our last meeting of the Laender-
rat I think I told you that you were
at a low ebb in food stocks; that the
food situation would get no worse and
would slowly improve. I know that
it is dangerous to talk in generalities
with respect to food, particularly with
a low stock position, as ~ call-ups
against the ration will vary from lo-'
cality to locality. However, I am
certainly under the impression that
the call-ups against the ration are
improving in many localities and the
arrival of imports is constantly in-
creasing.

We had promised an import pro-
gram of over 300,000 tons of flour-
equivalent for May. During the month
we attempted urgently to get the con-
sent of other countries for the tem-
porary divergence of ships where the
stock position of the other countries

(Continued on page 22)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Part 3

mong the Special Books, which

comprise the third in this series
of articles on OMGUS Reference
Library material, are included special-
type publications that are of great
value to the person who wishes to
delve deeper into the study of
Germany and the Germans, The two
bibliographies already published were
intended to assist the reader in
acquiring only a general knowledge
of Germany. Now the type of material
recommended becomes highly special-
ized and penetrates below the surface.
Most of the books mentioned in this
article can be used only in the Re-
ference Library.

Atlases

Frequent inquiries are made at the
Reference Library concerning the
exact location of -German cities,
towns, rivers, and other geographical
features, The two atlases mentioned
below supply the answer in most
cases,

Andrees Handatlas, ausgewihlte,
véllig neu bearbeitete Ausgabe of

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

ON

‘BOOKS

GERMANY

1937, by Richard Andree. This is one
of the finest atlases in the world,
particularly valuable for locating
cities, towns, lakes, rivers, and moun-
tains by name. More than 100
excellent maps are indexed in the
“Alphabetisches Namensverzeichnis’’,
which lists more than 120,000 geo-
graphical features by name. This is

useful for locating German cities
and towns, but also covers the
entire globe.

Stielers Handatlas of 1939, by

Adolph Stieler. This is another fine
world atlas, similar to Andrees Hand-
atlas, but not exactly the same. Both
are necessary in a large library. It
contains 254 maps, indexed in a
Namensverzeichnis of more than
335,000 entries.

Travel Guides

The Reference Library has more
than 30 travel books dealing with all
parts of Germany. They include
many Baedekers and similar works.
Some are in English and some in
German. The travel guides give more
detailed information than maps and
atlases, for in addition to geo-
graphical location they list scenic
features, museums, historical monu-
ments and other facilities,

Dictionaries

The Reference Library's collection
of German dictionaries is adequate
for the needs of OMGUS offices and
divisions,

Cassell's German and English dic-
tionary, is one of the best one-volume
bilingual dictionaries. Correct pro-
nunciation is indicated by use. of
phonetic spelling for each word, It is

10

not only a guide to literary German,
but includes some modern technical
and scientific terms as well.

Der Grosse Duden, Rechtschreibung
der deutschen Sprache und der Fremd-
worter, edition of 1939, is a hand-
book for German spelling, syllabi-
fication, and grammar. Widely used
by German printers as the final
authority for spelling and_ syllabi-
fication. Arranged alphabetically like
a dictionary, it is not a dictionary in
the American sense of the word.

Der Grosse Duden, Stilwérterbuch
der deutschen Sprache, edition of
1938, is a style manual indicating
how German words, phrases, ex-
pressions are to be used properly.
Arranged alphabetically like a dic-
tionary, it includes synonyms and is
compiled for the use of teachers,
students, authors, and foreigners.

Allgemeines verdeutschendes und
erklirendes Fremdwérterbuch, by Jo-
hann C. A. Henses, This is a diction-
ary of foreign words that have be-
come part of the German language
and is particularly useful because
many German words of foreign origin
are omitted from the standard Ger-
man language dictionaries.

Muret-Sanders Encyclopedic English-
German and German-English Diction-
ary (4 vols.) is a very thorough and
complete bilingual dictionary. Correct
pronunciation is indicated by phone-
tic spelling. More than 30 years old,
it, therefore, does not include modern
words,

Deutsches Worterbuch, vierte Auf-
lage, edited by Karl Euling. This is
a dictionary of German words with
emphasis on the historical derivation.
It does not give syllabification nor

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 14 ---
pronunciation, nor does it cover col-
loquial words. It also omits all tech-
nological words,

A German-English technical and
scientific dictionary. This is the most
modern and complete work of its kind
available in the Reference Library.
It lists alphabetically the German
words and gives the English equiva-
lent. It is not useful if one knows an
English word and seeks the German
equivalent, for the works is only Ger-
man-English, not English-German as
well.

Encyclopedias

Naturally the German encyclopedias
lay great stress on those subjects
pertaining toGermany, even as Amer-
ican encyclopedias stress Amer-
ican subjects. Thus the “German
works are extremely useful for all
types of information on Germany. In
many instances an encyclopedia ar-
ticle serves as a starting point for
an exhaustive study of some parti-
cular narrow phase of German life.

Der grofe Brockhaus (20 vols.), a
good German work, profusely illu-
strated with maps, colored plates, por-
traits, and diagrams. It appeared
volume by volume between 1928 and
1935 and includes some biographies
of contemporaries and is arranged al-
phabetically, similar to American and
English encyclopedias. .

Der neue -Brockhaus (5 vols.), an
abridged version of Der groBe Brock-
haus mentioned above. Printed in 1941
and 1942, it contains more than 10,000
pictures and maps plus more than
1,000 colored plates. A good encyclo-
pedia, though many of the articles
are extremely brief. Volume 5 is an
excellent atlas, particularly for geo-
graphical information on Germany.

Meyers Lexikon (15 vols.), another
good standard German encyclopedia;
similar to Brockhaus except that it
contains no portraits. It appeared
between 1924 and 1933,

Statistics

Many OMGUS offices and divi-
sions are greatly interested in all
kinds of German statistics, and the
Reference Library has a good collec-
tion of such works. Many of the
books listed here are now extremely
Tare, since they were classified ‘“‘Se-

16 JUNE 1947

cret” by German authorities during
the war and were destroyed when the
Allied armies conquered Germany.

Statistisches Jahrbuch Deutscher
Gemeinden, (4 vols. for 1936, 1937,
1938, 1940). These contain statistical
information on more than 600 German
cities for the years indicated.

Allgemeine Statistik, by Paul Flas-
kaemper, a fine study on the theory
and practice of statistics, printed in
1944. Particularly valuable is the sec-
tion Trager der Statistik, which de-
scribes German statistical publicatjons
in detail.

Deutsche Wirtschaftskunde, ein Ab-
rif der deutschen Reichsstatistik. This
is a statistical abstract covering such
fields as districts and population, agri-
culture and forestry, trades in gener-
al, industrial production, handicraft,
commerce, transport, money and cre-
dit, prices, workers and labor market,
finance, social welfare, education, law,
and elections. It appeared in 1933,

Sondernachweis: der AuBenhandel
Deutschlands (104 vols.). A monthly
publication on German foreign trade
and commerce, The Library file, cov-
ering the years from 1930 to 1944,
lacks a few copies.

Statistik des Deutschen Reiches (523
vols.), comprises the most comprehen-
sive of all German statistical works.
Figures for population movements,
medicine, commerce, public health,
crime, agriculture, and finance appear
each year. At regular and irregular
intervals other figures appear con-
cerning population, professions, mar-
keting, public finance, and election re-
turns, The complete set runs from
1873 to 1942, but the Library has only
those from 1897 to 1942.

Statistisches Jahrbuch fir das
Deutsche Reich (34 vols.), a yearbook
made up of the most important sta-
tistics for Germany. The statistics are
compiled from other publications of
the Statistisches Reichsamt and from
those issued by other agencies. Sour-
ces of information are always clearly
indicated. Each yearly volume—
covering the time from 1905 to 1942—
contains a list of all publications of
the Statistisches Reichsamt and a
summary of important world statistics.

Vierteljahrshefte zur Statistik des
Deutschen Reiches (86 vols.), This
quarterly publication contains more

11

detailed information on the same sub-
jects as the Statistisches Jahrbuch.
The Library file is almost complete
from 1925 to 1943,

* Partei-Statistik, 1935 (4 vols), a
valuable though not recent statistical
study of the NSDAP. Volume I deals
with party members: the number, their
positions in civil life, their age
groups, winners of the party medal of
honor, etc. Volume II gives similar
figures concerning important Nazi po-
litical leaders. Volume III contains
statistics concerning members and
leaders of Nazi organizations, offices,
unions, including the SA, SS, NSKK
and HJ. Included also is the regional
organization of the party. Volume IV
deals solely with the Deutsche Ar-
beitsfront, its organization, and per-
tinent statistics.

Statistical handbook of Germany
(10 vols. of 1946). This work is in-
tended to supplement the Statistisches
Jahrbuch ftir*das Deutsche Reich,
which did not resume publication after
the end of World War II.

Wirtschaft und Statistik (33 vois.
from 1921 to 1943). This periodical
contains statistics, graphs, and excel-
lent text covering such fields as pro-
duction, consumption, trade, com-
merce, wages, prices, business, and
finance. Up to 1940 each annual vo-
lume contains a cumulative index for
the year; from 1940 on there are in-
dices only in each monthly issue.

The final article of the series will
appear in next week's issue of the
Weekly Information Bulletin. It will
deal with books concerning the “In-
ternational Scene.”

Geographical Location

Geographical location of offices is
not to be included in the return
address on the envelopes of official
mail. A new OMGUS directive made
this change in a previous announce-
ment,

However, the geographical location
is to be included in letterheads. A
cable said that effective 1 June, “all
official correspondence will bear the
geographical location and APO
number on letterheads and preceding
the dateline in indorsements.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
SURVEY OF YOUTH WORK

Ihe magnitude of the problem faced

by the American occupation forces
in reorienting the German youth is
shown by a study recently made by
the Surveys Section of the Information
Control Division, OMGUS.

A scientifically selected cross section
of one thousand boys and girls aged
10 to 18 answered a list of 46
questions dealing with the American
GYA project. The youngsters live in
Frankfurt, Kassel, Heidelberg, and
Munich, and most are elementaray,
commercial, or high school students.

Ninety percent of the girls queried
and 83 percent of the boys had never
taken part in the American sponsored
German youth program, although from
one-third to one-half said they had
engaged in youth activities before the
occupation. However, they qualified
their preoccupation participation by
saying they had taken a _ passive
rather than’ active part in youth
organizations. .

Only a small minority of the
children questioned in these cities
seemed to be well informed on the
GYA program.

About half of the youngsters con-
sidered food and candy the most im-
portant thing about the youth program.

Twenty-six percent regarded the
opportunity to participate in sports as
GYA‘s most glowing inducement, but
almost as many, 23 percent, attended
meetings in order to show “our former
enemies what Germans are really
like.”

A comparatively large proportion
of the children interviewed in each of
the cities thought the youth program
was making a very important contri-
bution to the preservation of peace.

Two questions were included to
check up on whether or not the youth
Program was succeeding in teaching
the children the ideals of democracy.
The first was “Have you yourself re-
ceived a better understanding of the
meaning of democracy through the
program?” and the second, “How many
of the youth you know have received
a better understanding... through the
program?"

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Nine percent in Frankfurt, 19 per-
cent in Kassel, nine percent in Heidel-
berg, and 12 percent in Munich said
they “understood democracy much
better as a result of the GYA pro-
gram. Over nine percent of all the
children asserted they understood
democratic ideals “somewhat better”
as a result of the program. Six per-
cent of those answering claimed that
they took part in GYA activities
specifically to “learn about demo-
cracy.” But 66 percent said they
“didn’t know” whether their acquaint-
ances had learned to understood the
democratic way any more compre-
hensively through the program. Only
five percent thought their friends had
learned complete “understanding”
through the program. Perhaps this
very unsureness can be regarded as
encouraging.

Engagingly enough, ten percent of
the kids said frankly that they went
to the meetings “to learn to know
some Americans”. Nine percent of the
kids wistfully wanted “to learn about
America from soldiers.”
~ Leaders in OMGUS Education and
Religious Affairs Branch say they are
not unduly concerned because of the
“candy and games" appeal of the GYA
which the survey reveals. It is felt
the reaction is a natural one from
children of that age group, and is
“not evidence that this was the chief
value secured from the contact.”

German Firm Named
OMGUS has designated a German

corporation to accept all releases of
materials to the German economy by
the US Army through OMGUS. This
corporation is known as Gesellschaft
zur Erfassung von Ruestungsgut m. b.H.

Effective as of 10 April, all releases
of captured enemy and US material
destined for the German economy are
to be made only to representatives of
the corporation, who are to be iden-
tified by a pass issued by the cor-
poration and countersigned. by a MG
representative of the Land in which
the release is to be made.

12

Attacks on Press
Assailed by Licensee

License Hermann Knorr wrote in the
Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg) on
the role of the licensed press, pointing
out how its “position of power” was
attacked by government offices and
parties. He defended the press:

“It became apparent that the new
German authorities showed little un-
derstanding for personal initiatives and
criticism expressed in the press, and
that their new governmental power
meant the temptation of giving direct-
ives to the press or of degrading it in
a disdainful manner as ‘non-German,’
if their wishes were not met.”

He concluded: “It cannot be astonish-
ing if the independence of the press
as it exists today will always remain
contested. But it is a fact that it is
only the licensed press which re-
presents the decisive force for devel-
oping in the German people the habit
of learning opinions of others and of
taking issue. The licensed press of
the American Zone... would be very
much missed in Germany the moment
it would cease to exist.”

Payments to Ex-POW’s

Payment of released German pri-
soners of war residing in the US Zone
who possess credit certificates in
Pound sterling has been agreed upon
by the. US/UK Military Governments.
Payment will be made in Reichsmark

at the rate of RM 15 for 1 Pound
sterling.
Payment must be applied for

directly to the Oberfinanzpraesident
Hamburg, Abrechnungsstelle fir
Kriegsgefangenengelder, Hamburg 11,
Roedingsmarkt 83.

The application must contain the
following particulars: PW-No., rank,
name, surname and all Christian names
in block letters, first name underlined,’
camp prior to discharge, date of
discharge, D.C.U. making discharge,
present address to which payment is
to be made.

The credit certificates must be
attached to the application. Payment
will be made in the form of a postal ©
cheque through the office of the Ober-
finanzpraesident.

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 16 ---
The UNITED STATES STAKE in
GERMAN ECONOMIC RECOVERY

lwo world wars and their after-

math have made it clear that the
problem of Germany is one of the
keys to world peace and prosperity.
For two years, your representatives
in Military Government have sought
a basis for the solution of this pro-
blem. They can only succeed if the
American people are aware of both
their achievements and their diffi-
culties, and if in turn the Military
Government officials in Germany
understand the attitude of the public
at home. To contribute to a mutual
exchange of such informaion is the
main purpose of this paper.

We all know that the German
economy operated in the past as one
integrated unit. Each part made its
contribution to, and received sup-
port from, the rest of the country.
This integration alone made possible
the industrial development of Ger-
many. None of the areas that con-
stitute the nation was ever self-suf-
ficient in the past or can be made
self-sufficient in the future... (How-
ever) I shall concentrate on dis-
cussing the economic problems of the
American Zone and as far as neces-
sary of the combined American and
British Zones...

Rebuilding Essential

In view of the history of German
aggression and the part played there-
in by German industry, it may be-
difficult to understand that one of
the major tasks of Military Govern-
ment is the provision of assistance
in rebuilding at least part of the
German industrial system. Such a re-
construction, however, is necessary
for two reasons: to prevent Germany
from remaining a source of perpetual

This article is the text of the address
delivered by M. S. Szymczak, Director
of.the Economics Division, OMGUS,
before The Economic Club of Detroit
on 19 May in Detroit. Mr. Szymczak
is a member of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, now
on leave to assist Military Govern-
ment in Germany.

16 JUNE 1947

By M.S. Szymczak

unrest in Europe, and to aid in the
recovery of our Allies.

In the crop year 1946-47, German
farmers in the combined American
and British Zones of occupation are
producing foodstuffs sufficient to
provide an average diet of only
about 1,000 calories daily for that
part of the population that does not
live on self-sufficient farms. Such a
diet is less than half of the minimum
standard endorsed by the United
Nations Food and Agriculture Orga-
nization. Unless we are prepared to
forego payment for the large supplies
of food that must be sent to Ger-
many for an indefinite period just to
prevent wholesale starvation, we

“must permit Germany to redevelop

its manufacturing industries which
alone can produce the exports neces-
sary to pay for food imports.

Moreover, the products of German
industry are indispensable for the
reconstruction of continental Europe.
In 1936 — the last year in which the
bulk of the German economy was
operated on a peacetime level —
Germany was the largest exporter to,
and the largest importer from Aus-
tria, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Greece,
Hungary, Italy, Rumania, Switzer-
land, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. It was
first as a supplier and second as a
market for the Netherlands, Poland,
and Sweden. Almost the entire man-
ufacturing industry of continental
Europe was dependent upon German
machinery, precision instruments,
electrical appliances, optical goods,
transportation equipment and chemi-
cals.

Reconstruction Hampered

The fact that Germany today can-
not even supply spare parts is ham-
pering economic reconstruction in
such different countries as Austria,
the- Netherlands, and Poland. The
general shortage of coal, which is the
greatest single factor in retarding
European recovery, is due largely to
low production in the Ruhr mines.

13

Lack of German potash is delaying
the rehabilitation of agriculture all
over Europe. An increase in the out-
put of coal and potash mines, how-
ever, depends upon the availability
of mining equipment and upon lar-
ger supplies of consumer goods for
miners, A German miner can earn in
two days all he needs to buy his
meager weekly rations and there-
after has little incentive to work. A
relatively small increase in consumer
goods offered to miners was an im-
portant element in raising production
in the Ruhr mines by about one-fifth
between the fall of 1946 and the
spring of 1947. A largescale revival
of German consumer goods industries
would have proportionately greater
results.

Our own economy would benefit
from the resumption of German in-
dustrial exports because the avail-
ability of German goods would help
meet the foreign demand for many
American goods which are still in
scare supply relative to our own do-
mestic demand. Furthermore, some
European countries can pay for
imports from the United States
only with the aid of © dollar
credits because they lack dollar
resources and lack exportable
commodities adapted to the Ameri-
can market. If they could import
goods from Germany, however, they
could pay for them by exporting
products ufgently needed in that
country.

Mutual Aid Prevented

In that way, they would lighten
the burden which the American eco-
nomy has had to bear both in respect
to the reconstruction of their own
economy and to the rehabilitation of
Germany. For instance, before the war
the Netherlands exported substantial
quantities of vegetables to Germany
while Germany paid for these im-
ports in steel machinery. If that com-
merce could be restored today, it
would make it unnecessary for the
American economy to extend credits
to the Netherlands in order to enable
that country to buy. American machi-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
nery ant it would make it also unnec-
essary to divert scarce American
foodstuffs to Germany.

While the principle of assistance
to German recovery has been gene-
tally accepted in this country, it has
been very difficult to carry out the
program on an adequate scale. For
obvious reasons, of justice and po-
licy, the countries invaded by Ger-
many have been given a prior claim
to our aid. Our financial and mate-
tial resources are limited and food-
stuffs and raw materials continue to
fall short of total demand. The allo-
cation of wheat and non-ferrous me-
tals, forinstance, is a task that simply
cannot be fulfilled to the satisfaction,
of all. Similarly, coal, of which Ger-
many is a major producer, is in gen-
erally short supply. In order to pro-
mote reconstruction in the rest of
Europe, we have had to undertake
substantial exports of German coal
even though the revival of German
manufacturing industry would have
been considerably if it had been pos-
sible to retain’ German production
for German domestic use.

It may be hoped that these scarci-
ties will disappear within a few
years, but other obstacles may take
their place. Concern has frequently
been expressed that the reconstruc-
tion of German industry may go too
far and restore Germany's war poten-
tial. The occupying powers have tried
to differentiate between industries
that could be used for aggressive
purposes and therefore should be
restricted, and others that might be
considered peaceful and therefore
should be encouraged. The most in-
nocuous industries, however, could
conceivably be used for war purpo-
ses, and dangerous ones frequently
are indispensable for peacetime uses.
For this reason, some of the United
Nations are critical of any move to
improve the level of German industry
even though they concede that such
an improvement would benefit them
from the economic point of view.

Finally some countries see in
Germany less a source of supplies
or a market for exports than a
dreaded competitor. At present,
such fears seem prematune since
production the world over has
not caught up with demand, and
German.- production remains a

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

negligible part of the total. As soon,
however, as world. market conditions
become less favorable to the sellers
any increase in German industrial
production and especially in German
industrial exports, may injure the
interests of some industrial group in
other countries. Although such ex-
ports will in turn make possible im-
ports into Germany and thus benefit
the economies of Germany's trade
partners as well as its own, the
groups benefiting from access to the
German market frequently will be
different from those affected by Ger-
man competition.

Despite the conflict of objectives
and the limited financial and mate-
rial means at the disposal of the oc-
cupation authorities, there has been
a degree of rehabilitation in Ger-
many.

Food and Agriculture

The. food situation continues to be
the central German problem. It is far
from satisfactory, but we have been
able to avoid not only outright star-
vation but also any serious deterio-
ration of public health. Since last fall
the official ration has been main-
tained in the American and British
Zones until recently at 1,550 calories
daily for the so-called normal con-
sumer, This ration still is more than
one-fourth below the minimum neces-
sary to insure health in the long run
and more than two-fifth. below the
German prewar standard of nutrition.
Moreover, the diet is far poorer in
quality than would be advisable from
the point of view of nutrition, a lar-
ger proportion consisting of grain
products and a smaller proportion of
so-called protective foodstuffs.

Even so, the ration has been main-
tained only by importing into the
combined American and British Zones
foodstuffs equal to about 60 percent
of their domestic production, These
imports, including monthly shipments
of 200,000 tons of bread grains and
flour, and substantial quantities of
potatoes, sugar, fish, and milk, require
an expenditure of $ 360 million in the
current crop year.

The food situation is constantly
being threatened by the fact that
stocks of supplies are dangerously
low. Food is needed in many parts
of the world. For the sake of food

14

importing countfies a further rise in
world market prices must be avoided
as far as possible and priorities must
be established by the exporting na-
tions. Every ton of food allotted to
Germany causes hardship in other
parts of the world. Difficulties in
ocean transportation frequently delay
shipments urgently needed for main-
taining stocks in Germany at the
minimum level needed for the plan-
ning of equitable distribution.

German farmers frequently fail to
deliver their quotas. Trains must be
rerouted to alleviate a crisis in some
part of Germany, thus creating a
shortage in another part. Losses from
pilferage increase in proportion to
the deterioration of food conditions.
An unfortunate accumulation of such
factors was the cause of the diffi-
culties currenthy experienced in the
Ruhr district. Delays in delivering
the full rations invariably lead to
unrest, diminish the efficiency of
labor and the output of industrial
goods, and thus add to the difficul-
ties of rehabilitation.

In the future, we expect domestic
production, collection, and distribution
to yield substantially larger quanti-
ties than this year. Such an improve-
ment will depend upon the avail-
ability of fertilizer and upon a sup-
ply of industrial consumer goods
which will induce farmers to raise
more crops for sale. It also will de-
pend upon the enforcement of a strict
program of collection and distribution
which must be efficiently performed
by German officials...

In the long run, however, the effi-
ciency of industrial labor cannot be
maintained on a diet representing less
than 2,600 calories daily for the so-
called normal consumer, The Ameri-
can and British Zones cannot expect
to produce more food than sufficient
for an average of 1,600 calories daily.
Import requirements in the long run
therefore will be the equivalent of
at least 1,000 calories daily, or about
two-thirds more than actual imports
in the current year.

Industrial Production

In 1945, most manufacturing indus-
tries in the Western Zones of Ger-
many were at a standstill. By No-
vember 1946, industrial production in
the American Zone had reached 44

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 18 ---
percent of 1936—a year of virtually
full employment in’ Germany. With
the exception of lumber, the produc-
tion of all commodities is below the
1936 figure, but by 1948 prewar out-
put is expected to be reached in a
number of important industries, In
the British zone, industrial produc-
tion had recovered last fall to only
38 percent of 1936. The British zone
includes heavy industries, most of
which are under severe restrictions
as possible war industries, while the
American Zone contains mainly light
industries, manufacturing consumer
goods.

Unfortunately, the exceptional se-
verity of the last winter has undone
some of the progress experienced
during the preceding year. Industrial
production in the American Zone fell
in December to 39 percent, in January
to 31 percent, and in February 29 per-
cent of 1936, In March it recovered
to 35 percent, but this level still is
about one-fifth below the peak of
November 1946.

In spite of the low level of produc-
tion there is little unemployment.
Even in February 1947, unemploy-
ment in the American Zone was less
than 450,000 out of a labor of more
than seven million. Only in the white-
collar classes is the number of job
openings constantly smaller than that
of job seekers. This is the result of
three facts, The labor force has been
greatly reduced by war losses and by
the Allied retention of a large num-
ber of prisoners of war in some coun-
tries. Secondly, much labor is needed
for work, such as removal of rubble
and plant repair, which does not show
in production statistics but neverthe-
less is vital for resumption of econo-
mic activity. Thirdly, for physical
and psychological reasons, the pro-
ductivity of labor has fallen consid-
erably, in some cases by as much
as two-thirds. The gradual revival
of economic activity, more food,
housing facilities, and improved avail-
ability of industrial consumer goods
will do much to remove the causes
of low efficiency.

Housing

Next to food, housing, accommoda-
tions are the most pressing require-
ments of the German people. Despite
all war losses, the population of the
American and British Zones has risen

16 JUNE -1947

Germany’s Trade in 1936
The importance of Germany for continental Europe is indicated by
the following table, showing Germany's trade in 1936 with some of the
leading European countries.
Imports* Percent Exports* Percent
Country from of total to of. total
Germany imports Germany exports
Netherlands 151 23.3 74 15.7
116 26.4 77 19.5
106 7.0 40 43
Sweden ......-. 99 23.9 61 - 15.8
Switzerland .... 92 24.8 51 19.4
Denmark ...... 83 25.3 62 20.3
Belgium .....-- 82 11.5 69 ~ 10.4
Soviet Union... . 62 22.8 23 85
Czechoslovakia . . 55 17.5 AS 14.3
Norway ......- Al 17.6 23 13.2
Austria .....-. 40 16.9 29 16.1
Turkey ....--. 34 45.1 48 51.0
Rumania ...... 33 39.0 30 211
Hungary....... 334 25.8 35 23.4
* —In millions of dollars.

by around 20 percent in comparison to
prewar, mainly because of the inflow
of Germans expelled from the area
under Polish administration and from
Czechoslovakia and other eastern
European countries. At the same
time, urban housing suffered from
terrific bomb damage during the war,
especially in the industrial and com-
mercial centers. In Bremen, for in-
stance, 55 percent of all homes were
unusable in the summer of 1945.

Reconstruction has been hampered
by the scarcity of building materials,
which in turn is due largely to the
lack of coal: approximately 12.5 tons
of coal are needed for producing the
material necessary to build a- small
apartment. . Allied legislation provi-
des for the equitable distribution of
available housing among the popu-
lation, but this measure can bring
only small relief since the complete
equalization of all housing would
only provide around 80 square feet
per person in the American, and less
than 70 square feet per person in the
British Zone.

Improvement in housing conditions
is particularly needed in the Ruhr
district since the inflow of additional
miners from the Southern area of our
combined zones, required to fulfill

15

the program of output expansion,
depends upon the availability of
homes. A short range program has
been and a long range is being pre-
pared to provide additional housing,
including temporary camps and bil-
lets and permanent reeonstruction.
In addition to building material, beds,
bedding, and furniture must be pro-
duced. While Military Government
plays an important role in drafting
the program, its execution is entrust-
ed to the German authorities. Mili-
tary Government has helped in that
task by reducing to a minimum the
Tequirements for military installa-
tions.

Domestic Trade and
Transportation

Despite the interdependence of the
four zones of occupation, interzonal
trade has been slow to develop lar-
gely because of the lack of economic
unification. Since January of this
year, trade between the American
and British Zones has been free, as
the result of the economic merger of
these zones, and trade between the
merged zones and the rest of Ger-
many will be increased under agree-
ments concluded among the zonal
authorities. Until and unless the over-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
all economic unity of Germany is
achieved, however, German recovery
will be hampered by obstacles to the
free flow of goods within the country.

Transportation has suffered parti-
cularly badly from war damage. Mili-
tary Government can be proud, how-

ever, of its record in repairing rail-
roads, inland waterways, port faci-
lities, and highways. Railroad tracks
in operation represent 97 percent of
the prewar total. Almost as many
sunken vessels have been raised in
the American Zone as in all other
zones together and the proportion of
port channels cleared is higher than
in any other zone. The American
Zone also has a larger proportion of
operating motor vehicles than any
other zone.

Despite this progress, transporta-
tion is even now in need of repair
and maintenance is a constant pro-
blem. Allocations of materials are
being made for this purpose but must
be revised as required to meet new
priority demands from other sides of
the battered economic structure.

International Trade

In 1946, the foreign trade of the
American Zone was almost entirely
confined to’ the importation of food-
stuffs and other essential goods by
the occupation forces in order to pre-
vent disease and unrest among the
population. Such imports are financed
by War Department appropriations.
The only other substantial import
transaction was the shipment of some
surplus American cotton held by the
Commodity Credit Corporation. This
cotton was delivered to German pro-
cessors; the finished goods are being
exported in an amount sufficient to
pay for the cost of the imports, and

the rest is available for German con-
sumption.

In the fall of 1946, similar arrange-
ments were made by American Mili-
tary Government for the importation
of raw materials required for the
manufacture of ceramics, optical in-
struments, building materials, chemi-
cals, and toys. The interim financing
for these imports is handled by the
US Commercial Corporation, a sub-
sidiary of the RFC. Exports from the
American Zone in 1946 were confined
mainly to lumber and hops and a few

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

industrial goods, taken from existing
inventories or produced from raw
material stocks. The amounts shipped

“were very small, in the neighborhood

of three percent of the estimated pre-
war exports of the zone’s area.

Imports into the British Zone were
similar to those of the American
Zone, but exports from the British
Zone were considerably larger, due
almost entirely to Ruhr coal. Coal
exports reached a weekly volume of
260,000 tons in the summer of 1946,
or about 40 percent of prewar, but
this involved heavy drafts on existing
stocks and inadequate allocations to
the needs of the German economy. As
a result, exports of coal had to be
reduced by about 30 percent in the
fall of 1946. Even the peak figure in
the summer of 1946 was far from suf-
ficient to meet demand in the rest of
Europe, and the reduction of coal ex-
ports was a heavy blow to the im-
porting countries.

In the first months of 1947, exports
had to be curtailed still further,
reaching a low of 103,000 tons per
week in February. Meanwhile, how-
ever, the output of the Ruhr mines
had risen and coal exports could be
increased again. In April and May,
the unsatisfactory food situation
brought about some labor disturban-
ces which kept coal output somewhat
below the March peak.

As soon as these difficulties are
overcome, a further rise in output is
expected, and in that case exports
will reach in summer a minimum of
265,000 tons per week, while at the
same time allotments for the needs
of the merged zones will be a mini-
mum of 860,000 tons per week, or
about 30 percent above the peak
allotment in 1946. The increase in
domestic allotment will mainly bene-
fit industrial enterprises, which in
this way will be enabled to raise
their output and thus to contribute
mote efficiently to the projected ex-
pansion of foreign trade.

Apart from coal exports, foreign
trade of the merged zones in 1947
will be determined by the working
of the bizonal merger agreement. This
agreement provides for the coopera-
tion of the American and British oc-
cupation authorities, and of the re-
presentatives of the German states,
in formulating an import-export pro-

16

gram for the rehabilitation of the
German economy. A major objective
of this rehabilitation program is to
put the merged zones of Germany
back on a self-supporting basis, i. e.,
to develop exports to a point where
they cover imports.

Meanwhile, however, the occupy-
ing powers must bear the cost not
only of the basic program for the
prevention of “disease and unrest,”
but also of the raw material and
equipment imports required to “prime
the pump” of German export indu-
stries, Certain funds are already in
hand for this second part of the pro-
gram, including the receipts from ex-
ports of 1945—46, some former Ger-
man external assets transferred to the
occupying powers under agreements
with neutral countries, and the cre-
dits negotiated with the US Commer-
cial Corporation,

Bears Half of Costs

The United Kingdom is participat-
ing in the program in two ways. It
bears half of the costs of sending
basic necessities to the merged Amer-
ican and British Zones, and it finan-
ces half of the funds needed for
“priming the pump” of the area’s in-
dustry. Whenever, in the future,
additional advances should be re-
quired, the United Kingdom also will
bear an equal share with the United
States,

The expected increase in imports
will necessitate, but also make pos-
sible, larger German exports. In
order to facilitate exports, the occu-
pation authorities have authorized
foreign businessmen to correspond
with prospective German trading
partners. Only so-called nen-trans-_
actional mail, i.e., correspondence
preparing rather than concluding ac-
tual contracts, has been allowed so
far, but transactional mail may be
admitted in the near future,

Military Government also provides
facilities for foreign businessmen to
travel in Germany and renew trade
contacts. Contracts have to be sub-
mitted for approval to the Joint Ex-
port-Import Agency of the US/UK
occupying powers, and all payments
have to be made to the account of
the Agency rather than individually
to German exporters. The Agency
has issued rules of procedure, stat-

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 20 ---
ing the principles which will de-
termine the approval or rejection of
contracts, and has established branch
offices in the most important trading
centers of the merged zones, mainly
the state (land) capitals. Finally, the
Agency is prepared to act as sellér
of goods if a foreign buyer is’ pre-
vented by government restrictions
from entering into legal contracts
with German nationals.

The neccessity of setting up the
bizonal export-import organization
and the hardship of the winter
months have delayed the beginning
of the new program. Despite these
handicaps, foreign trade has started
to rise. In the first quarter of 1947,
contracts for exports were negotiated
to the amount of $22 million. Ex-
port deliveries, which, however,
include coal, reached $34 million.
Imports, excluding basic necessities
imported by the occupation authori-
ties, were approved tho the sum of
$10 million. These amounts still are
far below the levels that must be
reached in order to fulfill the bizonal
program, but they represent a mate-
rial improvement in comparison with
preceding periods.

Money and Exchange

When the occupying powers enter-
ed Germany, the collapse of the cur-
rency appeared imminent. Money in
circulation had increased to approxi-
mately six times the prewar level.
The German people’s recollection of
the hyper-inflation that followed the
first World War added to the dangers
of the situation.

Despite the oversupply of money
the scarcity of goods, the occupying
powers took over the existing Ger-
man system of price and wage con-
trols and have been able to preventany
serious rise in legal prices and wages.
The official cost-of-living index stood
in December 1946 at approximately
120 percent of 1938. It is true that
only the meager official rations can
be purchased at these prices. The
supply of black market goods, how-
ever, is probably smaller than the
amount of goods distributed through
legal channels. Furthermore many
black market transactions take the
form of barter, especially for cigaret-
tes, rather than the form of sales at
high money prices,

16 JUNE 1947

The maintenance of the official
price and wage level at virtually
prewar figures has had some unfore-
seen consequences. At the beginning
of the occupation, a military ex-
change rate of 10 marks per dollar
was established, as compared to a
prewar exchange rate of 2/4 marks
per dollar. This rate was introduced
merely for the administrative use of
the occupying authorities, especially
in calculating payments in marks to
the troops. Its application for gen-
eral purposes, however, would have
tended to upset the entire price and
wage system. German domestic prices
even before the war were man-
aged in such a manner that they had
lost all relation to world market
prices. No uniform exchange rate, and
least of all the military rate, would
represent a generally applicable ratio
between domestic prices as expressed
in marks, and world market prices in
dollars.

Thus a difficult problem has arisen
in connection with the pricing of ex-
port and import goods. The German
exporter receives for his sales the
legal domestic price in marks. Simi-
larly, the German importer has to
pay for his purchases the legal do-
mestic price in marks, On the other
hand, the foreign importer of German
goods pays, and the foreign exporter
of goods receives, the world market
price in dollars.

Therefore, the occupation author-
ities have decided for the time being
to refrain from fixing a uniform con-
version factor for the translation of
mark into dollar prices, and vice
versa. Instead we have issued a long
list of various conversion factors, re-
flecting for all major commodities the
actual relation between legal domes-
tic prices in marks and world market
prices in dollars. For instance, the
conversion factor for carbon brushes
is 30 cents, and for pharmaceuticals
80 cents per mark. This means that
a certain quantity of carbon brushes
that sells domestically for 100 marks
has to be priced for exports at $30,
but pharmaceuticals that sell demo-
stically for 100 marks have to be
priced for exports at $80. As a prac-
tical matter, this is the best that can
be done until major monetary reforms
are undertaken in Germany and a
more normal price system is develop-
ed there. These problems have been

17

under quadripartite (four zones) dis-
cussion for some time and it is to be
hoped that an early agreement will be
reached.

Banking

In December 1946, Military’ Gov-
ernment established a new central
banking organization (on Land level)
in the American zone. Following the
principle of decentralization, each
German state received its own cen-
tral bank, which took over the assets
of the former Reichsbank as far as
they were located in its area. The
organization of the central banks was
largely influenced by the model of
the central banks was largely influ-
enced by the model of the Federal
Reserve System. As soon as the eco-
nomic unification of Germany is im-
plemented, the state central banks
will be coordinated by a central board,
which will issue currency through
the medium of the state central banks.
Until such time, however, the central
banks have no power to issue bank
notes or any other currency.

In consequence of our principle of
decentralization, commercial banks in
the American Zone have been order-
ed to sever their connection with
central offices in Berlin. Depositors
are free, however, to dispose of their
accounts both within the American
and in transactions with the British
and French Zones, except for
blocking measures applied in the
process of denazification, From the
beginning of occupation to the end
of 1946, deposits in the American
Zone increased by 75 percent. Most
of the rise in deposits had to be kept
by the banks in cash or with other
credit institutions since no other in-
vestment opportunities are available.
Total assets of the banks in the Amer-
ican Zone were 75 billion marks on
June 30, 1946, of which one-third was
kept in cash or bank balances, and
two-fifths in Treasury bills and other
government securities, the service of
which has been suspended since the
end of the war.

Problems and Prospects

All these achivements are merely
the first step on the road to rehabili-
tation. The obstacles that still have
to be overcome are no doubt as great
as any which we have encountered
so far.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
First of all, the provision of the
Potsdam Declaration which calls for
the economic unification of Germany
must be carried out. Unification in
itself will not solve the economic
problems of Germany, but it will en-
sure the development of the whole
German economy on a more rational
‘basis. Uncertainty as to economic
unification is a handicap in many
fields, notably in adjusting the
so-called Level-of-Industry Plan to
changed conditions. Under that plan
which was approved by all four occu-
pying powers one year ago, maximum
levels were established for most Ger-
man industries with a view particu-
larly to preventing the resurgence of
German war potential. Most experts
agree that this plan needs substantial
corrections, but the necessary amend-
ments in each zone will largely
depend upon developments in other
zones and upon the question of whether
the German economy is to be redevel-
oped as a unit or in separate self-
sufficient parts.

Another problem that urgently
needs attention is currency reform.
The disproportion between the supply
of money and of goods at prevailing
prices cannot be maintained indefini-
tely. All experts agree that a reduc-
tion in the volume of currency will
be necessary. Obviously, the execu-
tion of such a reform also dependsupon
the fate of unification. If common ac-
tion of all four occupying powers is
not forthcoming, the advantages and
disadvantages of separate action in
the merged American and British
Zones must be weighed.

Other problems arise in connection
with the political aims of occupation.
The decentralization of the German
economy must be achieved in order to
make it impossible for the country to
teorganize for aggressive purposes.
In this connection, Military Govern-
ment in the American Zone has en-
acted a drastic decartelization statute,
which is aimed at. destroying the con-
centration of economic power in Ger-
man industry. Property of allied na-
tions looted during the war has been
and.is being restituted, War plants
have been and are being destroyed,
and other plants have been and are
being removed for reparations. The
over-all problem of reparations, how-
ever, still remains to be solved.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

The lack of unified action of the
four occupying powers, moreover,
creates uncertainties that are detri-
mental to economic progress, As long
as the management of an enterprise
does not know whether or not a
plant be subject to restitution, or to
destruction, or to removal under the
reparations program, it cannot make
definite plans for reconstruction or
start an investment program which
might be interrupted at any moment.

Finally, Military Government has to
deal with the problem of reaching
equilibrium in the balance of inter-
national payments of the merged
American and British Zones. In this
connection, the question of economic
unification again becomes decisive.
As long as unification is not achieved,
interzonal trade must be treated as
international rather than domestic
commerce, with the resulting need for
controlling interzonal payments.

The problem of equilibrium is par-
ticularly interesting to the American
public. As long as -the proceeds
from exports do not exceed im-
port requirements they must be
devoted entirely to paying for cur-
rent imports. Only when an export
surplus is reached, will it be possible
for our merged zones to start repay-
ing the advances made by the occu-
pying powers for the importation of
basic necessities,

Our stake in the economic problems
of Germany, however, is greater than
our interest in receiving repayment
of our advances. We want peace, and
we know in order to have peace, we
must have economic stability in Ger-
many and in the rest of Europe.

Direct Inquiries

Inquiries from public prosecutors’

in denazification cases in the US Zone
may be made directly to police offi-
cials in the British Zone, according
to OMGUS cable V—18 313 of 13 May.
It said:

“Approval has been received from
Military Government authorities in
the British Zone for the forwarding
of Arbeitsblatter and similar inquiries
from public prosecutors in the US
Zone directly to the German chiefs
of police of the appropriate Regie-
rungsbezirk or Stadtkreis in the Bri-

18

tish Zone, without going through
Military Government channels.

“Such inquiries should be directed
to the chief of police of the Re-
gierungsbezirk where the subject was
formerly resident or employed, or to
the chief of. police of the Stadtkreis
if the Stadtkreis has a population of
one hundred thousand or more. The
police in the British Zone will assume
responsibility for securing the de-
sired information from other German
agencies to which the Arbeitsblaetter
may be directed.”

General License No. 1

General License No. 1 issued pur-
suant to MG Law No. 164, ‘Frontier
Control” as amended, and MG Law
No. 53, “Foreign Exchange Control,”
contains the following provisions:

Persons who are authorized to enter
the US Zone of Germany from another
zone of Germany, or to depart to an-
other zone of Germany, may bring
into the US zone at the time of entry,
or may remove at the time of de-
parture, ordinary household and per-
sonal effects, food, and marks in their
lawful possession, required for their
personal use, but excepting items
which are prohibited for ‘security
reasons.

Persons who are authorized to enter
the US Zone from-a-country other than
Germany, may bring into the Zone at
the time of entry, ordinary household
and personal effects, including food
and foreign exchange assets, in their
lawful possession, required for their
personal use, but excepting items
which are prohibited for security
reasons; provided that such persons
in possession of foreign exchange
assets shall be informed of the pro-
visions of MG Law No. 53.

Persons who are authorized to de-
part from the US Zone to a country
other than Germany, may. remove
from Germany at the time of departure
ordinary household and _ personal
effects, in their lawful possession, re-
quired for their personal use; but this
does not authorize the export from
Germany of foreign exchange assets,
items which are prohibited for secur-
ity reasons, or works of art and
cultural objects of value and import-
ance.

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 22 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Blame for Crisis

The Darmstaedter Echo showed
that the German food problem was
caused by the serious world-wide
cereals shortage. Indicating this was
a direct consequence of the war, the
paper said:

“The more one is silent about the
domestic balance of burdens, the
louder one calls for help from the
outside: ‘The English and Americans
probably want us to starve. Why is
there no bread and fat in Germany? ”

“It is senseless to emphasize to
those hypocrites and slanderers again
and again that Germany has no bread,
no fat, and no clothing because for
twelve years we produced guns in-
stead of butter, because we destroyed
and robbed our neighbors, because
we led a totalitarian war against the
whole world and also against our
own country, because our destroyers
allowed the. pilferage of the remain-
ing store houses before their surren-
der: dy.

Food for Thought

The Weser - Kurier (Bremen), point-
ing to the difficulties from the paper
cut, said it is especially significant at
this time when tasks of political
significance have to be fulfilled:

“In the present situation every
newspaper questioa is, more than
ever before, a matter of considerable
public significance. A clean, free,
well-informed, and carefully reporting
press is as important as our daily
bread, And in the same way as lack
of bread may bring about a crisis,
the inadequacy of newspapers which
are cut in their size, will involve
considerable consequences,

“The outlook into the world, which
is so very necessary for us Germans,
will be narrowed again. The mental
values of our people as well as oar
Surroundings will appear in a dim
light. In a time filled with political
aad mental problems every failure
of the press counts doubly. Finally
most important political and econo-
mic decisions, highly significant for

16 JUNE 1947

all as well as for individuals, can
only be stated briefly.

“Die Neue Zeitung rightly said:
‘The longing by the world public for
information has increased immensely’.
This is particulary true for the Ger-
man newspaper reader who has
starved for information for so many
years,”

Philosophies Debated

The Hochland-Bote (Garmisch-
Partenkirchen) published an interpret-
ation of the struggle between Com-
munistic and Liberal ideas. Germany
has to decide which way to go, it
said, adding:

“In this struggle we Germans also
are not only objects as it used to be
but also acting subjects. Our country
is divided, single laender and zones
have a clear majority of one or
another tendency. The silly talk about
Eastern and Western blocs and the
still sillier conclusion of a coming
war only prove the stupidity of the
monger who does not understand the
political and economic constellation
of the world. Uninfluenced by catch-
words and party programs everybody
should form his opinion on the great
ideas of this great time, and always
be aware that his attitude, too, decides
Europe's destiny as agent of power,
economy, and culture.”

More on Mann

The Wuerttembergisches Zeit - Echo
(Schwaebisch-Hall) complained about
Thomas Mann's not visiting his native
country aad commenting on Ger:
many without having acquainted
himself with the new facts:

“We would gratefully have appre-
ciated it if Thomas Mann who knew
Germany and the Germans in the
past, would have visited us, if he
had listened to the Germany which
he denies his goodwill, if he had
compared and established changes
that took place... He did more than
just leave Germany aside.”

19

mented on the Economic Council as
follows:

“The bizonal Economic Council set
up over the bizonal offices will have
authority so far unknowa to German
offices. This represents decisive pro-
gress compared with the earlier zonal
amalgamation which showed only
adequate results. True planning must
have authority. One must know the
working conditions in order to plan
at all: But in the German situation
planning makes sense only if it car-
ties out an economic policy mainly
in terms of imcreased production
rather than distribution of available
production."

The editorial concluded: “The
Potsdam decrees are based on the
economic unity of Germany, the
failure of which can hardly be
blamed on the United States and
Great Britain. The zonal boundaries
which do not mark off self-sufficient
economic-political entities, have
proved, according to Byrnes, as ‘arti-
ficial barriers against the struggle of
the German people to regain her
peace-time standards’...""

Re-educating Nazis

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth)
proposed training interned Nazis in
needed skills and teaching them
democracy:

“A large number of iaterned Nazis
have professions which, according to
law, they will not be allowed _to
practice after their release. Some
were teachers -and officials, some
were propagandists, professional sol-
diers, and so on. Therefore, it is
necessary to prepare them for a new
profession, in addition to their being
occupied with emergency and other
clear-up work, The government
should organize practical courses
where the Nazis are trained for
shortage skills such as masons, car-
penters, painters, and metal workers.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
“Another equally important ques-
tion would be the arrangement and
execution of a thorough democratic
education program for interned Nazis.
There are hundreds of democratic
teachers and politicians in Bavaria
who would be willing to give lectures
in an internment camp on cultural
problems of our time.”

Democracy Explained

Answering charges by the Taegliche
Rundschau, overt Soviet newspaper in
Berlin, against the western controlled
papers, Editor Hugo Scholz of the
British licensed Telegraf found it sur-
prising that press freedom can be
misunderstood.

“As representative of an occupation
force the Taegliche Rundschau should
be particularly careful in chosing its
words, for otherwise one would have
doubts right from the beginning of its
objectiveness,” advised Scholz.

“The journalists of the Telegraf are
shocked about the fact that in this
article (of the Taegliche Rundschau) the
independence of the Telegraf is doubt-
ed by putting that word in quotes and
by charging that the paper has receiv-
ed ‘orders from special sources to
spread deliberately false and defama-
tory news.’

“The editors of the Taegliche Rund-
schau, and particularly the officer of
the Red Army, know that the Telegraf
is neither liable to censorship nor
would any journalist of the Telegraf
obey an order of British Military
Government to publish this or that
political comment,” declared Scholz,
adding the statement that the British
Military Government has made no
attempt at all to influence the editors.
He added further that there were quite
a number of articles which the British
did not like but which they showed
understanding upon being told the
reasons behind them. |

The paper expressed the desire that
other Berlin papers find the same un-
derstanding from the occupation force
which has licensed them.

“The Telegraf is neither for an
eastern or western democracy, but for
democracy,” concluded Scholz.

16 JUNE 1947

Safeguard of Press
Advocated by Paper

Der Mannheimer Morgen deplored
that the new press laws would act
as a restriction of the press if it were
not for protection of the freedom of
the press by the Allies. It said:

“The Occupation Power intends to
give the rights of self-government in
the various spheres of public life
back to the Germans, and to let the
Germans administer their press them-
selves. But what may come of it?
If the decision on licenses, paper, and
all the other necessities of printing
plants rests with the parties and
bureaucracy, ‘without a chance of
appealing to a really neutral author-
ity, then we can already order the
tombstone for the free German press.

“It seems to be very dangerous to
entrust a still basically undemocratic
German administration with all press
matters in the present chaotic con-
dition, in which our people and the
fragments of the former ‘Reich’ find
themselves. It would be like giving
a razor blade to a baby. Is it there-
fore ‘unpatriotic’ (we*think it is rea-
sonable), to point out to the Allies
that independent newspapers establish
a stronger bulwark against new cata-
strophes than airfields of the Con-
stabulary armed with bombers’ and
cannons?”

Tone of Party Papers

The Wuerttembergisches Zeit Echo
(Schwaebisch-Hall), is one of many
papers to comment on radio address
by J. W. Naumann, chairman of
Publishers’ Association. It commented:

“He raised the question whether
the tone of the party weeklies was
perhaps more elegant than that of the
licensed papers. It is questionable, he
said, whether a future party press
would be fair enough to carry in its
columns insulting attacks on itself, as
the licensed papers do. But in spite
of all attacks, the Augsburg licensee
declared himself ready to support the
difficult labors of the Government and
Parliament.”

20

Work for Internees

OMGUS Headquarters announced
in a cable V—18 389 of 15 May that
it “has no objection to the use of
unsentenced civilian internees on
necessary construction work not on
routine maintenance tasks at US Army
installations, providing the provisions
of USFET Civilian Personnel Circular
No, 12, dated 13 March 1946, relating
to the requisitioning of the services
of civilian personnel is followed.”

“This means that an attempt should
first be made to obtain the necessary
labor from (a) Displaced Persons
sources or (b) Local Labor Offices,”
the cable added. “Any use of unsen-
tenced civilian internees must be on
a purely voluntary basis, for pay,
and must not interfere with the pro-
gress of trials before tribunals. Agree-
ment must be obtained from the
Minister of Political Liberation, if he
is in accord with the plan, on pay,
feeding, and other working conditions
and for the security and guarding of
internees who volunteer for such,
work,”

Press Talk Praised

The Muenchner Mittag (Munich)
was delighted over the first official
government press conference. It com-
mented:

“A two-day debate in the Bavarian
Landtag on food problems and denazi-
fication and the first press conference
of the Land government may be re-
garded as a sign that parliamant and
government believe that the prelimi-
nary work of the cabinet is done. For
the first time in four months the
Land government permitted itself to
be subjected to questioning. The im-
pression prevailed up to now that
parliament evades all questions of
major importance and that the
government wants to discuss impor-
tant questions only behind closed
doors.”

The paper considered the new po-
licy a good start and also welcomed
the report on denazification before the
Landtag.

The Suedost-Kurier (Bad Reichen-
hall) commented favorably on the
first official government press con-
ference:

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 24 ---
Timber Program

The executive responsibility for
forestry production, felling and saw-
milling in the US/UK Zones of Ger-
many is to be devolved on the Ger-
man Food and Agricultural Executive
Committee at Stuttgart, but the
timber requirements from the Joint
Anglo-American Zones will be de-
termined by the German Economics
Executive Committee at Minden,
after consultation with the Food and
Agriculture Executive Committee and
its forestry experts, in accordance
with policy formulated by the British
and American authorities, r

There is’a large shortage of timber
required for the reconstruction of all
countries which were involved in the
war. Germany, itself, has large re-
quirements for industrial use and
building reconstruction. It follows
that for the next few years, while
this demand continues, there will
have to be cutting considerably in
excess of normal.

German forests escaped during the
war when the timber resources of the
United Kingdom and _ neighboring
European countries were being heav-
ily drawn upon and they can, there-
fore, now make a substantial con-
tribution, both to internal needs and
export. The German economy itself
will benefit by virtue of the fact that
all timber, like other exports from
current production from the western
zones, are paid for by the receiving
countries, thus helping to pay for
imports of food and other essential
raw materials required in Germany.

The provision of adequate quan-
tities of timber to meet essential
German requirements and to fill ap-
proved export commitments requires
a major effort on the part of all
German agencies concerned. The new
definition of responsibilities is ex-
pected to accelerate the development
of the full timber program.

V-E Views Contrasted

Contrasting views were expressed
in licensed German newspapers on
the event of the second anniversary
of the capitulation of Germany. Two
examples are quoted.

16 JUNE 1947

| More Potatoes from Americ:

Potatoes from Maine and Minnesota poured into Germany from the
United States this spring to bolster the planting program of the Combined
US/UK Zones. Above is the unloading of a ship which had just arrived
in Bremen (photo from PRO, OMGUS).

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten took a
more pleasant view as follows:

“The attempt, supported by a majo-
tity of the people, to try another
round with the world after the knock-
out of 1918, led to a total defeat two
years ago... Today, after two years,
conditions are not good, but in many
instances better. In the meantime,
transportation has been revived,
streets and bridges repaired, Much
rubble has been cleared away, shelter
found for offices and people... But
the great danger lies in the fact that
the fast-living eternally dissatisfied
person forgets too soon how great
the chaos was in the beginning and
how much we have been spared only
through the aid of strangers.”

A dark view was taken by the
Muenchner Mittag (Munich) in a full
column on the V-E Dac anniversary:

“For two years the war has been
over and still no peace in Europe.
The fear of a new third world war
lies like mildew on our hearts and
takes from us every hope a bearable
future. Rumors are spread from hand

21

to hand and accepted only too gree-
dily. Hunger conducts a bitter re-
gime. No one knows a way out of the
human distress or political cares
which rise like mountains over use.
It seems, after two years, as though
much has become worse...

“Schumachers's sentence about total
victory which means total respon-
sibility is often falsely interpreted.
Many persons in Germany feel it is
up to the victors alone to form the
peace, the German people need not
work at it too. The mentality of the
spiteful child is prevalent. From here,
it is but a slight step to the reproach
that the Occupation Power is to blame
for everything and could help more,
if it wanted to.”

Change in Time

Time will be reverted to single
summer time throughout Germany on
29 June, under quadripartite agree-
ment. At 0300 hours on Sunday,
29 June, all clocks are to be turned
back one hour.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Food Situation Improves

(Continued from page 9)
were better than that in Germany.
However, we could not get an agree-
ment to such an arrangement. The
United States is shipping approxima-
tely 1,400,000 tons of wheat to various
countries each month. It is a terrific
strain on rail, port, and shipping
facilities. It was rather widely re-
ported on the radio on 31 May that
shipments for May aggregated only
276,000 tons which was less than we
had promised to bring into Germany.
While this story was factually cor-
rect, it does not give the true picture.
Five additional ships arrived in Bre-
men on Sunday with an additional
33,000 tons, an additional ship arrived
yesterday and two additional ships are
on the ocean now. Although they
have arrived and will arrive two or
three days after the month, they are
a part of the May allocation and their
aggregate will result in having
brought in some 340,000 tons under
the May .allocation. Much of this
grain or grain equivalent is in flour
and will, therefore, reach the distri-
bution lines quickly. I think, there-
fore, that I can say that what I told
you a month ago was correct: That
you were then facing your lowest
situation in food and that the situation
is improving.

Karlsruhe Cleans Up

(Continued from page 4)
an lorrys, seven dredging machines
and graspers, several steam rollers
and planing caterpiilers, and five fire
ladders 26 meters high.

The completed project will require
three years, and its total cost is
estimated at RM 16,000,000. The value

of the material salvaged will pro-°

bably run to a million and a half
Marks.

But the main ingredient for the
success of the work has been the
support which the men of the city
have given the project. Perhaps the
leaders were inspired by the motto
which Major Neel keeps on his desk,
and which all who come to talk
with him read: “Kein Regierungs-
system funktioniert, wenn nicht das

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Volk mittut. —" (No form of govern-
ment works unless the people
work, —) “and no government pro-
ject either," Major Neel adds, “espe-
cially rubble clearance.” .

Reply to CSU Attack

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
replied to a recent CSU attack on the
licensed press.

“In a letter to the Fraenkischer Tag
in Bamberg the chairman of the CSU
Minister Dr. Hundhammer, complains
that the majority of the licenses of
the 21 newspapers in Bavaria are
Social Democrats and only a few are
members of the CSU... The CSU has
not been in the’ position up to now to
name the necessary number of men
endowed with the political prere-
quisites for the post of a licensee;
the proposed persons must have an
immaculate background.”

“Information Control applies strict
standards to admittance of press
licensees and must do so. It is a fact
that there are more Social Democrats
with an immaculate political back-
ground eligible for such a post, than
men who were proposed by the
CSU.”

German Terms

An OMGUS letter, AG 312.4 (SG),
requests that English translations fo-

llow German terms used in official ©

correspondence.

Confusion and loss of time are
sometimes caused by the use of Ger-
man terms in communications without
indicating their English equivalent.
Hereafter in all official correspond-
ence, the English translations must
immediately follow in parentheses
the German terms or expressions
where used the first time. An example
is Kontrolldienst (Control Service).
Exceptions are such well-known
terms as Kreis, Landrat, Landtag,
NSDAP, Hitlerjugend, and Reichs-
bahn.

Where German place names are
used in. communications, reports, or
periodicals, they are to be capitalized
throughout and followed immediately
by the name of the Land in which

22

located. The name of the place will
be written in all capital letters fol-
lowed by the name of the Land, also
in all capital letters. Exceptions are
Munich, Nurnberg (Nurembergj,
Stuttgart, Frankfurt, §Wiesbader,
Berlin and Bremen. 3

Illegal Movement

A complaint was recently received |

from the French authorities that
numerous persons who tried to
cross the Swiss border and were

apprehended and ultimately returned
to the US Zone (their zone of
residence) were expelled by American
authorities and returned to the French
Zone.

A letter, dispatched by OMGUS to
each of the Land Directors on
29 May, subject “Expulsion of German
Nationals”, requests that responsible
US and German officials be informed
of present quadripartite agreement in
this connection. Paragraph 17 of
Control Council Directive No. 43
states that persons who illegally
change residence between zones
should be ‘carefully investigated and
returned to their former place of
residence. Quadripartite agreement as
to its interpretation provides that all
persons who illegally move from one
zone to another shall be returned to
the zone where they formerly resided.
Further, that this makes mandatory
the acceptance of such persons by
the authorities of the Zone of origin.

Vehicles for MG

All US Army vehicles authorized,
on present tables of distribution and
allowances, as well as all indigenous
sedans, are to be transferred to the
accountability of the Military Post
in which the persons or detachments
using them are stationed. Post com-
manders will have the responsibility
for operational dispatch and maint-
enance of these vehicles.

Military Government personnel and
detachments will be subject to the
same controls by the Military Post
upon the use of motor transportation
as other units or activities assigned
to the Military Post, according to
an OMGUS cable V—18973 of 31 May.

16 JUNE 1947

--- Page 26 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Centralization of Civilian Personnel
Administration, AG 230 GAP-AGE,
Hq EUCOM, 1 April 1947.

Army Assistance to German Youth
Activities, US Zone, AG 353.8 GCT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 1 April 1947. Sub-
stitutes paragraph on expendable
items in USFET letter of 5 October
1946.

Civilian Personnel, Authority and
Responsibility, AG 322.011 GAP-AGE,
Hq EUCOM, 1 April 1947. States over-
all policy and gives complete re-
ference list.

Admission to US Occupied Zone of
Germany of Dependents of Voluntary
Agency (UNRRA Personnel), AG 292
GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 3 April 1947.

Responsibility for German Youth
Activities, AG 353.8 GCT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 8 April 1947. Provides GYA
continuance under current military
organization in EUCOM.

Requisitioning of Real Estate, AG
602 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 April
1947. Sets 1 May 1947 as effective
date to stabilize policy.

Expenditures for Salaries of Stars
and Stripes Employees, AG 230 GAP-
AGE, Hq EUCOM, 9 April 1947.

Authorized Civil Postal Channels,
AG 311.1 GBI-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
11 April 1947, Rescinds USFET, letter
of 29 March 1946.

Survey and Disposal of Fortifica-
tions, Defensive Works and Former
German Armed Force Zone of In-
terior Type of Installation in Germany,
AG 388.3 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
11 April 1947.

Disposition of Records, AG 313.6
AGO-R, Hq EUCOM, 15 April 1947.

Supply of UNRRA from US Army
Sources, AG 400 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 16 April 1947. Substitutes for
previous directives.

Strength Accounting, AG 320.2
AGU-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 16 April 1947.

Army Educational Program Accre-
diation, AG 352 INE-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
16 April 1947.

Instructions for Processing Delin-
quency Reports, AG 250 .PMG-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 18 April 1947,

16 JUNE 1947

Reemployment Rights - Executive
Order 9711, AG 230 GAP-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 18 April 1947.

Assistance by American Groups to
Army Assisted German Youth Organi-
zations, AG 353.8 GCT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 19 April 1947. Implements
OMGUS program.

Manual of Accounting Procedures
for Post Exchanges, AG 331.3 SSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 21 April 1947.

Local Procurement of Foodstuffs,
AG 400.12 GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
21 April 1947. Reiterates prohibition
without OMGUS approval.

Payment of 24 December 1946, AG
230 GAP-AGE, Hq EUCOM, 21 April
1947,

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

Army Exchange Service Procure-
ment of Special Services Equipment
for Posts and Units, AG 400.12 SSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 April 1947.

Gasoline Ration Allocations for the
Month of May 1947, AG 463.7 GDS-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 23 April 1947.

Loss of Dependents Schools Text-
books and Library Books, AG 461
GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 24 April 1947.

Record Administration, AG 313.6
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 25 April 1947,
Rescinds USFET letter AG 319.1
AGN-AGO of 29 October 1946.

Move of European Air Transport
Service and Air Transport Command
to Rhein/Main Air Base, AG 370.5
GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 25 April 1947.

Responsibilities for Providing Tele-
communications Service for the US
Zone of Occupation in Germany, AG
676 SIG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 26 April
1947,

Storage of Supplies, AG 400 GDS-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 26 April 1947.

Intra-EUCOM APO Mail, AG 311.1
AGM-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 26 April
1947,

23

Reduction of Communications Fa-
cilities Serving Occupation Forces,
AG 676 SGS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
26 April 1947,

Allowances for Subsistence and
Quarters for Allied and Neutral
Civilian Employees, AG 248 GAP-
AGE, Hq EUCOM, 28 April 1947,

Courses- of Instruction at 7712
European Command intelligence
School, AG 352 GBI-AGO, Hq

EUCOM, 29 April 1947,

Manual Arts Report, AG 319.2 SSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 29 April 1947,

Officer Candidate School, AG 352
GAP-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 30 April
1947, Amends USFET letter of
13 February 1947,

Collection of Monies Due as a
Result of Punishment Imposed Under
104th AW, AG 241 GAP-AGP-B, Hq
EUCOM, 30 April 1947.

Civilian Personnel “Name” Requi-
sitions, AG 230, AGE-C, Hq EUCOM,
1 May 1947. Provides that grades
below CAF-7, P-2 or equivalent base
pay must have prior approval of the
Office of the Secretary of War. Only
exceptional cases accompanied by a
properly written Form 57 and a
statement of acceptance will be
requested for approval.

Termination of Public Law No. 790,
AG 091.311 AGM-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
1 May ‘1947. Notes that customs-
exempt mailing of gifts up to $ 50 to
United States expires 30 June 1947.

4.2" Chemical Mortar Ammunition,
AG 471 CML-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
1 May 1947,

UNRRA Travel Orders, AG 200.4
GAP-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 2 May
1947,

European Command Recreational
Areas, AG 354.1 GAP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 3 May 1947,

VIP Accommodations, AG 624 GAP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 3 May 1947.
Reduces Space used for such.

Plan for Reorganization of US
Forces in the European Command,
AG 322, GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
5 May 1947’ Gives Appendix, G - Sig-
nal Plan to Annex No, 2.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Reenlistment of Discharged Members
of the Women's Army Corps, AG 340
GAP-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 5 May
1947, Lists several amendments to
USFET letter of 22 June 1946,

Civilian Personnel, Authority and
Responsibility, AG 322.011 GAP-AGE,
Hq EUCOM, 5 May 1947. Amends
EUCOM letter of 1 April 1947, to
include Commanding General, Bremer-
haven Port of Embarkation.

Application of Forty Hour Week to
Indigenous Civilian Personnel, AG 230
GAP-AGE, Hq EUCOM, 5 May 1947.

Enlistment in the Regular Army,
AG 342.06 AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 6 May
1947. Reiterates that only US citizens
are eligible.

Implementation of Section 5, Cir-
cular 76, War Department, 1947, AG
353 GCT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 May
1947. Concerns troop information
program.

Reduction of Employment of Dis-
placed Persons in Organized Civiliau
Guard Units, AG 322 GDS-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 7 May 1947.

Evacuation and Rebuild of Sedans,
Convertibles and Roadsters, AG 451
GDS-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 7 May 1947.
Amends EUCOM letter of 19 March
1947 to include ‘“Volkswagens".

Leadership, AG 353 GCT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 8 May 1947. Incloses letter
to unit commanders giving advise in
leadership.

Appearance of Civilian Counsel
Before Courts-Martial, AG 250.4 GAP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 8 May 1947.

Belgium-Luxembourg Tour, AG 200.4
SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 8 May 1947.

Fitting of Clothing, Circular Number
26, Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947.

Military Police Training School,
European Command, AG 352 PMG-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947.
Rescinds USFET letter of 2 December
1946 and notes transfer of school from
Brake, Bremen Enclave, to Nellingen,
near Stuttgart.

Kitchen Equipment for Dependent
Families, AG 414 RMJ-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 9 May 1947.

Policy regarding Designated Loca-
tions of Dependents, AG 292 (510)
GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 May 1947.
Concerns a address on movement
overseas.

Eligibility of War Department
Civilian Employees for Transporting
their Dependents to the European
Theater, AG 230 GAP, AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 9 May 1947. Amends par Sa
of EUCOM letter of 10 February 1947,
to include “Employees with depend-
ents employed by the European Com-
mand are not aftected by this direc-
tive.”

Souvenir Weapons, AG 474 GDS-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 10 May 1947.
Quotes Restrictions.

Inter-Allied Relations Program, AG
092 GAP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 10 May
1947, Substitutes for EUCOM letter
AG 322 GAP-AGO of 22 January
1946, new program to improve op-
portunities of contact, interchange of
knowledge and understanding and a
greater appreciation between the
American soldier and Allied
temporaries.

con-

Confinement and Administration of
General and Garrison Prisoners and
Certain Military Government Pri-
soners, Circular No, 29, Hq EUCOM,
19 May 1947.

Emergency Warning Device, Motor
Vehicle, AG 451 PMG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, ‘22 May 1947. Concerns
sirens and warning lights.

Circular No. 30, Hq EUCOM, 22 May
1947. Section I, Issuance of Petroleum
Products for Vehicular Operation. Re-
instates USFET Cir 5 Sec II of 1947.
Section II, Decontamination of Fruits
and Vegetables. Warns of necessity
for care in handling QM fruits and
vegetables from indigenous origin be-
fore consumption. Section III, Repair
of Furniture. Transfers responsibility
from Corps of Engineers to the Quar-
termaster Corps.

Sale of Motor Vehicles, Circular
No. 31 Hq EUCOM, 22 May 1947.
Revises previous USFET circulars as
to prohibition of such purchases from
German economy, and _ registration
provisions under vehicle and traffic
code.

Absence Without Leave, Circular
No. 32, Hq EUCOM, 22 May 1947.
Replaces previous circulars on sub-
ject.

Holland Tour, AG 200.4 SSP-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 22 May 1947. Rescinds
EUCOM letter of 17 April 1947.

Casualty Reporting, Circular No. 35,
Hq EUCOM, 23 May 1947. Directs
accurate and prompt reports in cases
of death, absence, and serious illness,

Circular No. 34, Hq EUCOM, 23 May
1947. Section I, Disposition of Auditors‘
Files, Certificates of Audit and other
Audit Records. Section II, Allowances
of Chemical Corps Class IV and V
Supplies.

Awards and Decorations, Circular
No. 33, Hq EUCOM, 23 May 1947.
Cites recommendations considerations.

Administration of Indigenous Civil-
ian Employees in US Occupied Zone,
Germany, Civilian Personnel Circular
No. 12, Change 3, Hq EUCOM, 23 May,
1947,

Administration of Indigenous Civil-
ian Employees in US Occupied Zone,
Germany, Civilian Personnel Circular
No. 12, Change 2, Hq EUCOM, 26 May
1947,

Currency Techniques on Payments,
Collections, Negotiations, Acquisition,
Exchanges, Circular No. 38, Hq
EUCOM, 27 May 1947.

Employee Grievance Policy and
Procedure, Civilian Personnel Cir-_
cular No. 22, Change 1, Hq EUCOM,
28 May 1947,

Interzonal Carrying of Weapons by
Authorized German Police Personnel,
AG 014.12 (IA), OMGUS, 29 May 1947.

Advance Amendment of Part 4,
Histories, of Title 22 MGR, AG 010.6
(CO), OMGUS, 29 May 1947. Rescinds
Part 5 in Change 1 to Title 22, MG
Regulations, entitled “Historical Re-
ports” and substitutes Part 4,
“Histories" as to responsibility and
preparation. io

Health Insurance Reports, Man-
power Memo No. 81, OMGUS, 31 May °
1947,

English Translation to Follow
German Terms Used in Official Cor-
respondence, AG 312.4 (SG), OMGUS,
2 June 1947,

Advance Amendment to Title 15,
“Manpower Administration”, MG Re-’
gulations, AG 010.6 (MD), OMGUS,.;
5 June 1947, Amends paragraph on
“Strikes and Lockouts" is amende

Resources Boards of the US Occy:
pied Zone of Germany, AG 334 GDS='
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 26 May 1947. Lists’
members of zone, Land, and local
boards. or

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELH