--- Page 2 ---
———= + ee
ins

:
Soins Rate
aa

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

ZIEGENHAIN

ALSFELO

OBER =
LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN
aes QBERTAUNUS
ESBADEN, iar

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

VACATION-BOUND—These children were
in a group leaving Stuttgart for a lengthy
vacation offered by the Swiss Red Cross
to help rebuild their health. An article on
this work appears on page 3. (Photo by
DENA-BILD.)

INFORMATION

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

H.R. Kleinke, who provided information
for Swiss Vacations for German Children,
taught administrative and constitutional law
at University of Berlin and practiced law
before going to the United States and
becoming an American citizen. In the United

States, he acquired knowledge of American TABLE OF CONTE NTS
welfare programs and social legislation. In
October 1944 he entered Federal Civil Issue No. 107 25 August 1947

Service with Department of Justice and in
January 1946 transferred to War Department
for service in the European Theater as child
welfare officer of the Public Welfare Branch, Official Population Estimates . ........ 4
TA &C Division, OMGUS.

Swiss Vacations for German Children . . . . .. 3

New Guide for Export Buyers. . ....... 5

ee — ea MG Plan Spurs New Trade .......+.+ .- 6
Public Sanitation was furnished jointly by

Preventive Medicine and Public Sanitation . . . . 7

Lt. Col. E. J. Dehne, Chief of the Preventive
Medicine Section, Public Health Branch, German Reactions «02 Sea ee ee
IA & C Division, OMGUS, and by Capt. R.S.
Paine, 279th Station Hospital, Chief of Pre-
ventive Medicine, Office of the Surgeon, Progress in Economic Fusion. .....:+..: - 13
Berlin Command, OMGUS.

Personnel Changes Announced .. +--+... 12

Books of OMGUS Reference Library ..... . 15

Office teeeuctions 4 6 OS Se ee ee

NEXT WEEK

The functions and organization of the bi-
Partite and bizonal agencies being located in
Frankfurt will be explained in an article
written by Stephan Freeland of the Bipartite OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
Public Relations Office. — : CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
SWISS VACATIONS
FOR

GERMAN CHILDREN

FEW THOUSAND fortunate child-

ren have traveled to Switzerland
this year for three-month visit in
Swiss homes, These youngsters go
under the sponsorship of the Swiss
Red Cross, and are either chosen
from needy families in areas where
the housing and food problems are
most serious; or go at the invitation
of relatives or friends in Switzer-
land. They leave Germany pale and
under-nourished, and usually return
healthy and bright-eyed.

OMGUS, which has given the under-
taking enthusiastic support and co-
operation, believes that the children
gain doubly by their stay in Switzer-
land. In addition to the improvement
in general health, the children have
an opportunity to absorb the atmos-
phere of Swiss family life, which
may have a lasting effect on their
characters,

Recent studies by psychologists into
the German nature have indicated
that the structure of German family
life, with its dominantly paternalistic
motivation, may supply a partial ex-
planation for easily-dominated, sadis-
tic yet sentimental type of German
mind which produced the Third Reich.
Old patterns are hard to change,
especially when they involve anything
as basic as family life, but these
intimate contacts with the far more
democratic home life of the Swiss
may effectively influence the young
Germans who benefit by them.

The Swiss Red Cross began the
vacation program in the British and
French Zones shortly after the war.
At the end of last year they decided
to extend their assistance to German
children in the US Zone, and the first
group of 450 left last January.

RIGINALLY the program provided

for vacations for 450 children a
month, aged between four and ten
years whose health was seriously
impaired, but who were free from
communicable diseases. German health
and welfare officials selected the
children and made the initial exam-
ination. Later, Swiss doctors and
social workers visited the areas, and
after further examinations made the
final selection.

The Swiss provide transportation on
a special Swiss train, with nurses in
attendance. Last minute physical
checks assure that no child on the
train is likely to contract a con-
tagious disease from any traveling
companion. The youngsters are wel-
comed on their arrival by members
of the families with whom they are
to stay, so they do not have a chance
to feel lonely or homesick. For the
first few days they are often shy
and diffident, but they eagerly gulp
tall glasses of milk, and within a
week they are usually happily ad-
justed to their new environment.

They are encouraged to write fre-
quent letters home, and their Swiss
“foster parents” treat them with the
affection they reserve for small cous-
ins, because since the youngsters
must return home at the end of the
three-month period their hosts must
not allow themselves, or the children,
to become overly attached.

As they become stronger the child-
ren are taken on picnics, and camping
trips into the beautiful Swiss country-
side. If ef school age they may
continue their education in a Swiss
school,

CHILDREN LEAVING FOR SWITZERLAND (opposite page)—(upper left) A Red
Cross nurse (one assignet to each coach) leads a group to the waiting train.
(Middle left) A last minute physical check-up is given. (Lower left) A group
in Frankfurt, Swiss trainmen in background. (Lower right) Nurse getting last
word of advise at Munich. (Photos from Heute and DENA-Bild.)

25 AUGUST 1947

3

ARLY THIS summer the program

was expanded to provide also
for organized travel to Switzerland
of children who have relatives or
friends in that country who request
them as guests. These “nominated
children" may be between four and
15. They too must pass physical exam-
inations before they are granted
permission to make the trip. The dur-
ation of their stay is also limited
to three months, and except in cases
of illness they return to Germany in
a group at the end of this time.

In addition to’ the regular trips of
450 children a month, 600 nominated
children left Hesse the last of July,
600 went from Bavaria in early
August, and 600 went from Wuerttem-
berg-Baden 5 Agust. Also 550 under-
nourished children and 70 children
threatened with tuberculosis left
Berlin 20 August. Except for the
Wuerttemberg-Baden transport, for
which a German train was used, the
children were all moved in special
trains supplied by the Swiss.

N_ INTERESTING check on the

value of the vacations was provid-
ed by an examinatien of 370 children
in Mannheim who had returned from
such a stay in Switzerland. All except
four had increased in height and
weight “more than could be expected
in three months," all others had either
increased their height or weight
or both beyond the average for that
period. This was regarded as espe-
cially favorable since the children
were particularly weak and below
normal standards, and medical expe-
rience shows that it is usually ex-
tremely difficult to increase the weight
of such children.

The care by the Swiss of children
threatened with tuberculosis repre-
sents another aspect of the program.
Beside the seventy such children
which left Berlin in August, 70 left
Frankfurt in April and other move-
ments are scheduled. These children
are sent to Swiss health resorts and
sanitoriums for special eare for peri-
ods of four to six months. This eare,
which is expensive, is financed by
voluntary contributions in Switzerland,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
Official Population Estimates

IHE CIVILIAN population of the US

Areas of Occupation in Germany
totaled 18,514,000 persons an 1 July,
according to the official quarterly pop-
ulation estimates compiled by the Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS.
These estimates, determined by an
Inter-Divisional Committee on Popu-
lation Statistics, are the only figures
to be used for all official purpose by
US Military Government.

The population increased between
1 April and 1 July by 109,000 persons,
of which 27,000 was accounted for by
excess of births over deaths, and the
remaining 82,000 by migration and
return of prisoners of war. The total

also included 2,000 civilian internees
under US Army control with residence
in the US Zone.

There is a proportion of 124 fe-
males to every 100 males, according to
another CAD table giving the per-
centage age and sex distribution of
the German population as of 29 Oc-
tober 1946. The proportions may be
applied to the current population with
the reservation that they are changing
slightly with the return of prisoners
of war, of whom 65,000 had been
received in the zone between 1 Jan-
uary and 30 June 1947,

The official tables are:

_ POPULATION ESTIMATES AS OF 1 JULY 1947
(Thousands of Persons)

Classes j Wuert- | US Sector | rota)

of Population Eset) Be | Baden | ee Berlin a
Civilian Population ... | 8,024 | 4a07 | 9657 | 407 | 904 18,179
DP’s in Camps ....... 223 58 | Bo) 6 | (388
Civilian Internees .... 2 | - | - | - - 2
TOTAL v.00... | 9449 | ateo | 3,708 | _497_—‘| 4,000 18,514

DISTRIBUTION BY SEX AND AGE GROUPS

Age Groups in Years bas a No. of females

° Male | Female | Total to 100 males
under 6... 10.4 | 8.0 | 94 95
6 told. 15.8 12.2 | 13.9 96
14 ,, 20 10.0 | 8.6 | 9.8 106
20 ,, 25. 6.0 | 8.3 | 1.3 171
25, 30. 5.0 \ 6.9 6.0 170
380, 40. 18.0 | 16.1 14.7 153
40 ,, 50. 1A 15.0 15.0 123
50 ,, 60. 10.8 11.5 11.8 133
60 ,, 63... 4.6 46 | 4.6 124
65 and over 9.3 8.8 | 9.0 117

Teachers in Sweden

Sixty German adult education
teachers in the US Zone will go to
Sweden 1 September at the invitation
of the Swedish Government for six
weeks’ reorientation and democratie
reeducation training. The project is
sponsored by the Joint Committee for
Democratic Reconstruction at Stock-
holm,

MG Land office authorities will
assist German educational leaders
in selecting the 60 teachers, subject
to approval by the Swedish com-
mittee, The latter will provide trans-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

portation, room and board and funds
for clothing and incidental expenses.
Tuition is free.

After the six-week course, 40 of the
German teachers will be selected for
a full winter term of training at
various adult education schools in
Sweden.

Union Membership Doubles

As of 31 May, there were 1,309,000
trade-union members in the US Zone,
almost twice the number recorded as
of the same date last year. The
increase was greatest in Bavaria.

4

MG Circulars Note
Changes in Policy

IRCULARS ARE being initiated
by OMGUS to promulgate imme-
diately all changes in MG policies
and directives and to eliminate the
publishing of lengthy letters and
cables, MG Circular No.1, setting up
this procedure under OMGUS Staff
Memo No. 35 of 23 July 1947, declared:
“This is the first of a numbered
series of Military Government Circu-
lars which will contain directives
published by this headquarters of a
permanent or semi-permanent nature.
These circulars will consolidate and
afford a uniform publication of
directives of a Military Government
nature to Military Government in-
stallations and their subordinate units.
“All new Military Government
policies and directives will be an-
nounced in this circular in the same
way as War Department directives
and changes are announced in WD
Circulars. Henceforth, lengthy letters,
cables, etc., will be published only in
unusual circumstances,

“All addresses are enjoined that
the file of these circulars is to be kept
current.”

Details of these circulars also will
be carried over the official OMGUS
broadcasts and in the Weekly Infor-
mation Bulletin as is done with all
official instructions and general in-
formation for MG personnel.

Juvenile Case Services

The progressive provisions of the
German Child Welfare Law and
Juvenile Court Act are being brought
in full effect in Wuerttemberg-Baden,
with the adoption of a detailed plan,
similar to one which has been in
operation in Berlin for some time,

The child welfare offices will pro-
vide probation and case work service
in each juvenile case which comes
before a German court, A revision
of MG Regulations, Title 5, now pro-
vides that all MG courts use the ser-
vices of the child welfare offices in
the same manner as do the German
courts. This brings the juvenile work
of the MG courts into conformity
with German juvenile legislation and
practice.

25 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 8 ---
NEW GUIDE FOR EXPORT BUYERS

HE Bipartite Export Buyer's Guide,

a pocket-size handbook published
by the US and British Military Govern-
ments, contains essential information
to aid businessmen in planning to
visit the Combined US/UK Area for
the purpose of negotiating commercial
export contracts.

This booklet, a development from
the Export Buyers Guide to Germany
issued last spring by the Economics
Division, OMGUS, is concise and in-
formative, and covers the many prob-
lems which a visiting businessman
may encounter. Its contents include
sections on regulations and procedure
for export, regulations for imports,
procedure for entry into Germany,
travel and visitors’ bureaus, financial
arrangements, travel facilities, accom-
modations, communications services,
legal position of businessmen, and
permitted business operations in Ger-
many. :

In the introduction to the booklet,
the sponsors commented: “Every effort
will be exerted to make your visit
comfortable and productive, but condi-
tions in’ Germany will call for your
patience and consideration. Visits of
businessmen will, it is hoped, be a
means of improving conditions in Ger-
many. Trade resulting from your con-
tact with German exporters will enable
a German peaceful economy to revive
and make its contribution to world
economic reconstruction, thereby help-
ing Germany to pay her own way
and so relieve the cost borne by the
British and American peoples in financ-
ing imports of food and essential raw
materials into Germany."

IOPIES are available at Military

Permit Offices (MPO‘s) which are
in touch with US and British Embassies
in various world capitals, at the Ger-
man Departement of the Board of Trade,
from the Foreign Office (German Sec-
tion) in London, at the US Department
of Commerce in Washington, at
various field offices of the Commerce
Department located in some 45 cities
throughout the United States, at the
Joint (US/UK) Export-Import Agency
offices and at travel bureaus through-
out the British and US Zone of
Germany.

25 AUGUST 1947

The Joint Export-Import (JEIA) with
central offices at Minden, Germany,
has the responsibility of promoting
and directing the foreign trade of the
fused zones. All commercial exports
from the US/UK Zones require the
approval of this agency. No contracts
for exports from Germany are valid
until approved by an office of the
JEIA, No set form of contract is
required, but the contracts must con-
tain certain mandatory clauses as to
delivery, title, risk and payment. They
also must fulfill several general con-
ditions as to price and nature of
export.

JHE CONTRACTS must provide for

Payment to an account of the
Military Government of Germany
(US/UK) in a currency acceptable to
the Military Government. Normally,
a contract will not be approved until
after receipt of notification of the
establishment of an irrevocable letter
of credit with an acceptable financial
institution.

At the discretion of the buyer,
deliveries may be made FOB German
border, river vessel at a German river
port, ocean vessel at a German
seaport; airplane at a German airport,
or at the factory. At present it is not
possible for the German suppliers to
insure goods beyond the German fron-
tier,

JEIA approves the pricing of export
contracts, The basis for pricing will
be world market prices, with the view
to obtaining maximum proceeds for
exports within the framework of a
sound, long-term commercial policy.

Because of the grave shortage of
accommodations in Germany, it has
been necessary to limit the number
of visitors who can be allowed in the
Combined US/UK Zones al any one
time. This is effected by permitting
entry on a quota basis, quotas being
allocated monthly to various coutries.

N AMERICAN businessman wish-
ing to visit the US/UK Zone of
Germany applies to the Passport
Division of the Department of State
for a passport, stating the nature of
his mission. His application may be

5

filed with the clerk of any federal
court or the clerk of any court having
naturalization jurisdiction, If his visit
is approved and is within the quota
allocated the United States, the appli-
cant is granted a military entry permit
valid for a specified two-week period
in the Combined Zone, The permit
is issued by the Military Permit Sec-
tion, Civil Affairs Division, War
Department,

Commercial buyers visiting the US/
UK Zones report on arrival to a visi-'
tor’s bureau in the US Zone or to a
travel bureau in the British Zone. The
bureaus arrange billeting and mess
accommodation. and provide trans-
portation when necessary and available
at the visitor's expense and, in cases
where the buyer is traveling in his
own car, arrange for purchase of
gasoline.

JRAVELERS to the US Zone must

carry travelers checks or other ac-
ceptable dollar instruments with which
to purchase Military Payment Certifi-
cates in Germany from offices of the
American Express Company or from
other licensed foreign banking institu-
tions. Travelers intending to visit the
British Zone may purchase sterling
letters of credit from the Military
Permit Office which will be exchanged
by the travelers bureau for British
Armed Forces Special Vouchers.

Businessmen may bring their pri-
vately owned cars into the Combined
Zones, but are entirely responsible for
making their own shipping arrange-
ments for their cars through com-
mercial agencies, ‘

The military entry permit which is
issued to the commercial visitor, for
travel in the US/UK occupied areas
of Germany, is granted with the under-
standing that the purpose of the travel
is to establish trade relations with
German firms, in accordance with
procedures established by the JEIA.
Thus, the visitor may not acquire or
dispose of any property, settle a debt
or claim, use bank accounts owned by
a person outside Germany, remove
any property from Germany, or enter
into any contract or agreement except
as authorized,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
MG Plan Spurs New Trade

HE first phase in a long-range plan

for the financing of foreign trade
in the Combined US/UK Zones was
completed with the signing early this
month of a financial agreement with
Czechoslovakia. This plan, drawn up
more than two years ago by OMGUS
experts, was aimed at assisting the
restoration of monetary trading in
Europe.

Pointing that this agreement with
Czechoslovakia disproved the fears
of some European economic experts
that a “dollar curtain’ was being
erected across central Europe, Jack
Bennett, financial advisor to the Mili-
tary Governor, declared:

“Military Government reversed the
pressure for unsound barter and
clearing practices which originated
with the Nazi government in Ger-
many. This radical alteration in Ger-
man trade practices may well exert
considerable leverage in moving the
European economy into a sound fin-
ancial condition, which will help
trade instead of hindering it.”

The basis of the new trading system
is a series of so-called offset agree-
ments, now completed with. Belgium,
Holland, France, Italy, Austria,
Switzerland, and Czechoslovakia. Ne-
gotiations are well advanced to in-
clude other countries in Europe, par-
ticularly to the north and east of
Germany. Military Government's off-
set agreements provide that payments
for trade and services flow through
foreign accounts in local currencies,
established with the national banks
of the countries concerned.

N average of three and one half

months is allowed to the debtor
on either side, in which to settle his
bill by sale of goods or services to
the other party. Thereafter, the ba-
lance becomes due in dollars or sterl-
ing at the choice of the crediter.

This system, OMGUS experts feel,
cuts down the need for hardcurrency
payments to the net balance in trade,
thus sparing Europe's resources, while
at the same time avoiding the pit-
falls of bilateral clearing. The refusal

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

of Military Government to fix quotas
to balance trade with each country,
is “increasingly recognized to be the
only means of putting European eco-
nomy on a sound basis," Mr. Bennett
said. “We are far ahead of most of
the countries in Europe in Eliminating
bilateralism.”

By establishing hard currency pric-
ing and maintaining the principle of
periodic hard-currency settlements,
costly and inefficient exchange of
merchandise under political pressure
are avoided on both sides. In addi-
tion, the desire of European countries
to minimize the amount of hard-cur-
rency settlements causes them to
make special efforts to find goods
Germany can buy, thus increasing
the flow of trade in Europe. MG ex-
perts consider this tactic an effective
antidote for the so-called “seller's
market.”

HE fear that German exports would

be used to draw dollars out of
Europe is without substance, Mr. Ben-
nett stated, According to the Anglo-
American fusion agreement, Germa-
ny's food requirements, the main drain
on hard currency resources, are paid
for exclusively by the US and British
taxpayers, These amount annually to
about $3 per capital in the US, and
$10 per person in Great Britain.
“All dollars made in Europe by ex-
ports of German products, plus a part
of the hard currency earned else-
where, are available for expenditure
in Europe," Mr. Bennett said. “Right
now, our main problem is to find
suppliers of the goods we heed and
can pay for, and we are looking for
them in Europe.”

Funds now available for purchases
in Europe include about $30 million
per quarter for general imports for
the civilian economy, plus a capital
fund of up to $100 million for in-
vestment in raw materials and semi-
finished goods to produce exports un-
der sound programs, These funds will
increase in direct proportion to the
increase in German exports, it was
declared.

Two-zone Business
Groups Permitted

IBERALIZATION of restrictions on

membership in business and pro-
fessional organizations in the Com-
bined US/UK Area, previously limit-
ed in scope by Military Government
Regulations to the Land level in the
US Zone and to the zone level in
the British Zone, was announced
jointly by OMGUS and CCG(BE).

The new policy permits bizonal
federations of associations (Arbeits-
gemeinschaften) embracing a major
industry or profession. It affects such
groups as business associations, pro-
fessional societies and guilds, and
applies similarly to chambers of
commerce.

The main purpose is to make
cooperation between economic as-
sociations and the new _bizonal
agencies easier and more effective.
Hitherto, bizonal economic agencies
were obliged to negotiate with at
least one association from the British
Zone and up to four Land associations
from the US Zone whenever they
desired the advise of functional ex-
perts. Henceforth zonal and Land
associations of the Combined Area
will be able to represent their inter-
ests jointly.

The liberalized membership restrict-
ions give members of one industry
or profession ample opportunity for
mutual exchange and coordination of
ideas and information essential to
the peacetime economic recovery of
the Combined US/UK Area.

The new policy reaffirms the pre-
vious territorial jurisdiction of as-
sociations but permits persons or
enterprises in any one Land to join
an association in another Land within
the Combined US/UK Area in cases
where (1) the interested persons or
enterprises in one Land are too few
in number or size to warrant estab-
lishment of an association in that
Land, or (2) where an_ enterprise
domiciled in one Land does the
greater portion of its business in
another Land.

However, the basic principles for
non-governmental economic as-
sociations, as expressed in the US
MGR Title 13 and the British Tech-
nical Instruction No.12, remain un-
changed.

25 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 10 ---
HE OLD ADAGE about an ounce

of prevention has as much vera-
city in Germany today as in any
other place where large groups of
Americans are living. Potentially a
country as shattered as this could
spawn terrible epidemics. Rigid
health controls have kept this menace
from materializing.

The Preventive Medicine Section
of Berlin Command, OMGUS, is
typical of the organizations through-
out the US Zone which safeguard the
health of American personnel and
dependents. In a general way the
activities of this section correspond
closely to those of the public health
department in any community in the
United States. Close cooperation is
maintained with the Public Health
Branch of OMGUS, which supervises

public health work among the Ger-
man population.

Sanitation work is under the super-
vision of the sanitary engineer.
Routine checks are made on water,
milk, ice cream, beer, soft drinks,
and similar commodities which might
become carriers of infection. The
sanitary engineer makes recommen-
dation to the surgeon and the com-
manding officer on all sanitary
measures affecting the health of the
command, An example of safety
measures decided in this connection
was the decision to declare the beach
of Wannsee, a large lake bordering
on the US Sector of Berlin, “off
limits’ to American personnel this
year because of the pollution of the
water.

ILLUSTRATIONS—(above) Rapid filter gallery of Gallenklinge water works in
Berlin. (Page 8) Laboratory assistants at 279th Station Hospital, Berlin, identity-
ing bacteria and testing drinking water. (Page9 top to bottom) US Army tech-
nician testing milk; alum being placed in dosage apparatus of swimming pool
at Andrews Barracks, Berlin; US Army soldier taking water samples in swim-
ming pool for testing. (Page 10) First sergeant having his innoculations brought
up to date with typhoid booster shot. (Photos by Byers and Army Signal Corps.)

25 AUGUST 1947

7

HE SANITARY ENGINEER super-
vises all swimming pools used

by Americans, whether they are
those assigned to troop units, or used
by clubs, or even located in grounds
of private billets. Chemical testing
and treatment of water is done under
his supervision and advice given as
to the desirable frequency for chang-
ing water.

The sanitary engineer exercises
technical supervision over rodent and
insect control, while the actual exe-
cution of this work is done by the
Corps of Engineers. A firm of Ger-
man exterminators is employed and
their services are available to elimin-
ate rodents or cockroaches in troop
units and clubs, following recom-
mendation by the sanitary engineer.

The mosquito control program in-
cludes use of power sprayers mount-
ed on trucks and aerial spraying
operations conducted by the Army
Air Forces.

Among his other duties the sani-
tary engineer supervises sanitary
aspects of garbage and trash disposal.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
HILE THERE has never been an

epidemic affecting American
personnel here, the possibility always
exists due to the low resistance to
disease of the German population
and the high incidence of certain
diseases among them. Constant close
supervision is made of all cases of
communicable diseases admitted to
the hospital in order to recognize at
once the possibilities of any local
outbreak, These are investigated on
the spot, and recommendations made
as to control measures which should
be taken to prevent further spread.

Diphtheria and tuberculosis cases
are watched with especial care. Effort
has been made to acquaint all Ameri-
can personnel, especially soldiers in
the younger age groups, of the
dangers of tuberculosis.

Tuberculosis is very common among
the German population and there are
numerous “open cases’ (infectious
for other persons) walking the streets
because of lack of hospital beds in
which to isolate them. The incidence
of tuberculosis among Americans has
not been high (about 1.5 cases per
1,000 men per year), but the tragedy
has been that the great majority of
cases. discovered have been in
moderately or far advanced stages
when detected. Three of these cases
died in the process of being returned
to the United States. One reason for
this problem is inability of the
average soldier to recognize this
disease,

NN MOST CASES the manner in

which the victim becomes infected
is undetermined, Efforts have been
made to acquaint every soldier with
its early symptoms and non-com-
missioned officers have been given
orientation on this subject, in order
that they may be watchful for the
symptoms among their men. Persons
having had close contact with TB
cases are located and X-ray ex-
aminations are made.

Diphtheria is the only other non-
venereal communicable disease which
has given our health authorities
serious concern.

There have been numerous cases of
infectious jaundice throughout the US
Zone but the incidence of this disease
has been constant, and there have been
no temporary increases. A fine, modern,
well-equipped hospital in Bayreuth,
which was one of Hitler's model
“baby farms“ has been turned into a
clinic, and all American patients are
taken there for treatment and study.

The immunization program is all-
important in keeping Americans in
this zone healthy. The Preventive
Medicine Section organizes this pro-
gram and makes facilities available
for carrying it out. The down-curve
of diphtheria cases in the US Area
of Germany bears testimony to its
success,

The figures below, which strikingly
demonstrate this point, are given on
a precentage basis, give the diph-
theria rate per 1,000 US troops in
this zone and total deaths. The per-

centages for the incidence of the
disease among US _ civilians is
closely parallel; and show the same
decided drop in 1947.

1946 1947
tate deaths rate deaths

Jan... . . 4.53 7 3.84 0
Feb... . ., 6.01 3 2.96 1
Mar. . . . 8.27 6 1.49 0
Apr... . . 9.87 2 0.67 0
May .... 456 .3 119004
June. . . 3.59 0 1,29 0
July. . ... 2,83 1 0.75 0
Aug. = = 1, Se 2 _ _-
Sep... . . 143 0 a ee
Oct. . 2 we BM9 0 _ -
Nov. oo. «4:23 0 - -
Dec... . . 3.76 0 = —

The cases which come into the
hospitals now are usually persons
who never finished their immunization
shots. These are usually lighter cases,
because the partial innoculation
provided some protection against the
disease. However, paradoxically,
when deaths occur as a result of
such infection, it is usually because
the lightness of the case prevented
the disease from being promptly
recognized. In some instances anti-
toxin is not used until too late, and
damage is done the nerves and
muscles of the heart.

DRIVE IS currently being carried

on to bring all immunizations up
to date. In the case of military per-
sonnel this is accomplished by unit
commanders, and civilian personnel
Officiers are checking immunization
registers, but dependents’ immunizat-
ions are their own responsibilities.

--- Page 12 ---
The Medical Department is respon-
sible for the medical aspects of VD
control, and for making recommen-
dations as to control measures to
commanding officiers. An active
publicity campaign is carried on,
including eye-arresting posters, and
special programs. The Preventive
Medicine Section supervises prophy-
lactic facilities,

The Preventive Medicine Section
makes routine inspections of all
clubs, messes, and snack bars to
insure maintenance of proper sanitary
standards. A medical team is also part
of the command inspection team
which visits major troop units reg-
ularly. This team checks for sani-
tation of barracks, latrines, and mess-
es, for completion of immunizations,
and for proper operation of unit
dispensaries.

ND IN HAND with the work of

the Preventive Medicine Section
goes the work of the public health
functions of Military Government.
It would be as impossible to guard
the health of one slice of the popu-
lation of a country without super-
vising the health of the remainder of
the people as it would be to keep
a spot on an apple from spreading.
The safety of the American occupation
forces in Germany is to some extent
contingent on the level of health of
the German people.

A comprehensive environmental
sanitation program is one of the
essentials of a well-balanced public
health program, In the United States
this is achieved by having a public
health officer in each community. He
and his staff are responsible for
water supply, sewage disposal, in-
dustrial hygiene, food and restaurant
sanitation, control of nuisances, and
milk sanitation.

German practice spreand all these
functions over different and often
unrelated agencies of the German
government.

Because MG officials have felt it
essential to obtain a complete picture
of the status of sanitation in each
community they required the Ger-
man Public Health Officers to report
periodically on all phases of environ-
mental sanitation. In order to make
these “reports to Military Govern-

ment it was necessary for German
health officers to maintain a constant
liaison with other German agencies.
As a result they often found that they
could make important recommenda-
tion for the belterment of conditions,
and they did so in informal liaison
with the respective officials. For the
first time the jigsaw picture of com-
munity health was beginning to fit
together into a recognizable whole.

ATER SUPPLIES were not gener-

ally under a close supervis-
ision by health department officials,
except in some of the larger cities.
Actual examiation of water supply
facilities by competent health depart-
ment or laboratory personnel were
sometimes years apart. However,
German laws and regulations were
specific with regard to the pro-
tection of water sources, and in
general provided excellent protection
when carried out.

The effects of the war, with
dislocation of people and the great
increase of population in the US
Zone, together with a lessening of
supervisory activity, resulted in the
deterioration of many water supplies
with an accompanying increase in
small outbreaks of water-borne dis-
ease. To meet this situation a close
supervision of all water supplies was
necessary. This was arranged by the
various health departments and lab-
oratories, with complete surveys
and laboratory examinations to be
made at intervals of from six months
to one year.

A schedule for periodic exami-
nation of water supplies has been
established with a followup at fre-
quent intervals for those supplies
which show unusual contamination.
The larger cities have their own lab-
oratory facilities and make labora-
tory examinations frequently, in some
cases daily tests are run. Laboratory
procedures are excellent when the
proper facilities and supplies are
available.

The usual German practice in
insect and rodent control programs
calls for annual or semi-annual
rodent extermination. Insect control
usually involved only measures
required for the elimination of in-
sects affecting agriculture.

--- Page 13 ---
VERCROWDED housing con-

ditions in all parts of Germany,
obviously increase health hazards.
Inequitable population distribution
resulted in some communities in the
US Zone being more overcrowded
than others, so the health depart-
ments commenced reporting on the
degree of overcrowding and when a
maximum density of 2.4 persons per
room was reached, made recommen-
dations to the appropriate German
agencies that such places be closed
to new inhabitants until housing
facilities were improved. Much of this
work was initiated and carried out
by various functional offices, but the
responsibility for this work was
deemed a proper German respon-
sibility and where possible the
execution of these measures was left
to the German officials.

The expulsion of racial Germans
from neighboring countries for re-
settlement in occupied Germany
resulted in the mass transport of

over two millions of persons into the
US Zone of Germany. Since some of
these people were coming from areas
in which typhus fever still occurred,

stricts anitary border control measures
were necessary to prevent the impor-
tation of typhus fever and other com-
municable diseases into the US Zone.
A border control program, set up
under US supervision, required that
all persons entering the US Zone be
deloused with DDT dusting powder
and given a brief physical ex-
amination for evidence of com-
municable disease. DDT was fur-
nished by Military Government from
US Army stocks until late in 1946,
when production of DDT delousing
powder at Farbwerke Hoechst was
adequate to permit German purchase
from German sources.

IOOD SANITATION activities are

normally divided in Germany
among various agencies, with super-
vision of food processing plants
under one ministry, milk control
under another, and routine inspec-
tion of food vending establishments
done by a section of the German
police agencies. In the past two years
the health departments have studied
the activities of these various agen-
cies and have developed periodic

liaison to discuss work in progress
and to suggest changes which might
improve the overall food sanitation
program. This phase of environmental
sanitation is still being developed by
the German health departments.

The improvement of the standards
of performance of the lower level
health department workers who are
frequently inspectors with no pro-
fessional background has been recog-
nized as essentital. Methods of accom-
plishing this vary, but occasional lec-
tures, seminars, and circular letters
are now being used to inform these
“helpers” as they are called of chang-
es in policy and improvements that
they can make in their work.

German health departments have
barely begun to develop information
programs to secure adequate support
of public health programs, Under MG
supervision, there habe been exten-
sive campaigns in this direction on
the subjects of venereal disease and
tuberculosis control, and now a cam-
paign is being instituted to inform the
German population of the extent, cau-
ses of, and methods of prevention of
intestinal parasitic infections which
are transmitted to a large extent by
inadequate control of the disposal of
human wastes and of the use vege-
table crops fertilized by human
wastes.

Law Violations

German offenses against Military
Government law in the US Zone of
Germany show a sharp increase in
the monthly report on police and fire
statistics issued by the Public Safety
Branch, IA&C Division, OMGUS.

A 20 percent rise in June, as com-
pared to May 1947, was attributed
principally to increases in boundary
travel violations—27 percent in Hesse
and 74 percent in Bavaria—and in
black market violations—71 percent
in Hesse.

The reports said that since August
1946, when the present reporting
system was started, the efficiency of
the German police has improved
through training programs, more and
better equipment and the experience
police recruits received on the job.

--- Page 14 ---
Aim of Marshall Plan

Editorializing on the Marshall Plan
and US economy, the Frankfurter
Neue Presse said:

“The Marshall Plan, which will not
come, into full existence for some
time, is to be regarded more as an
American emergency program to
maintain production and standards of
living than as an attempt to secure
political influence by extending mar-
kets abroad.

“The European nations, mainly the
non-agricultural countries, will per-
haps suffer from a temporary decrease
of their own export through the plan,
and, therefore, will need large-scale
financial aid from America. The
loans, then, may ‘contribute’ to a sta-
bilization of the tense economic
situation of America. America herself
hopes for good business prospects
for the coming decade.”

Denazification Defended

The Passauer Neue Presse, criti-
cizing a sermon on denazification
delivered recently at the Internment
Camp Moosburg, declared:

“Our eyes are open to the difficul-
ties of our people. We clain the right
to free criticism wherever it is
proper. We stand up for justice,
and for justice alone, and have
been willing to accept criticism
for the sake of justice. For this
reason, we oppose any attempt to
poison our people...

“In view of our knowledge of gas
chambers, of mass executions, of
starvation of hundreds of thousands,
of the cruel experiments on internees
and the conscious killing of sick
people, we should be ashamed to use
the word concentration camps when
speaking of the Internment Camps
of 1947" (as mentioned in the sermon).

The Offenbach Post said: “The Par-
liamentary Council of the Landtag is
debating about denazification again.
If they worried just once about the
Victims of Fascism, we could under-
stand their worry about block and
cell leaders and fellow travelers . .

25 AUGUST 1947

“General Clay declared he. was
ready for some change in procedure
if it would bring about a quicker end
to denazification. But he will not
change the law itself. Denazification
is in America the most important
criterion of policy toward Germany.”

Occupation Directive

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) empha-
sizing the importance of the new
directive for US occupation policy in
the present difficult state of German
politics, said:

“In all these questions of vital
importance to us no _ occupation
power, not even England, has de-
veloped a plan which is so well
coordinated and so considerate of our
tight to exist. It need not necessarily
be limited in its effect to the
American Zone or the combined US/
UK Zone but also includes some ele-
ments for a complete solution...

“America, however, with her im-
mense technical and financial resour-
ces and her consciously developed
political conceptions is wholly aware
of her pioneer role in post-war Eu-
rope . .. In any case it is note-
worthy that General Clay, in com-
menting on the directive given him
by his government, states that the
United States intends to follow in the
future a ‘less rigorous’ policy towards
Germany, especially where economy
is concerned.

“It was the frankness with which
the United States declared its future
policy in Germany to the whole
world and to the defeated German
people, that demonstrated most con-
vincingly the power and honesty of
democratic foreign policy.”

Lend-Lease Proposal

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
and other Bavarian papers suggested
that Germany retain her industrial
plants on a “lend-lease” basis instead
of dismantling them. The Munich
paper said:

”The basic quesition arises whether
the time has not come to regard the

11

other viewpoints, above all
more sensible economic one. We
believe it would be worth careful
thought and common effort to in-
vestigate the idea of whether dis-
mantling could not be combined with
World War II lend-lease procedure.
“We submit the following proposal:
instead of outright destruction, which
in too many cases results in economic
destruction without a corresponding
increase of industrial potential, the
plants concerned (insofar as they are
essential for peace production on the
basis of the industry plan) are to be
maintained and continue working
under international control. The
countries to which part of the pro-
duction equipment was _ granted,
should leave their machinery on the
spot on the basis of a ‘lend-lease’
agreement.”

Newspaper Exchange

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich),
commenting on the interzonal ex-
change of newspapers, remarked:

“For the first time since the end of
the war the zonal boundaries were
officially opened a few days ago for
the exchange of news and for the
bearers of this news — the news-
papers .. . Measured by paper tons
it will be a somewhat one-sided
exchange at first. The newspapers of
western Germany which are great-
ly handicaped in their development
by the paper shortage, can spare only
a few copies which will scarcely
counter-balance the anticipated im-
ports from the East....

“Each occupation zone of Germany
teflects more or less the conceptions
and politics of the occupation power
that controls it. The Germans may
be condemned to inactivity because
they were the activists of this fatal
war. But nobody should force them
to be parrots who endeavor to
imitate on a small scale what
they learned from their respective
victors."

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
PERSONNEL CHANGES ANNOUNCED

Curtis Grover Shake, formerly of
the Indiana Supreme Court, is named
Presiding Judge of MG Tribunal No.6
at Nuremberg. Other members of the
tribunal bench are James Morris,
former chief justice of the North
Dakota Supreme Court, and Paul
Macarius Hebert, dean of the Law
School, Louisiana State University.
The alternate judge is Clarence F.
Merrell. Tribunal No.6 is scheduled
to hear the IG Farben case.

James L. Sundquist is appointed
Control Officer, OMGUS, in addition
to his duties as Director of Manage-
ment Control, EUCOM. Mr. Sundquist
has been associated for six years
with the US Bureau of the Budget
and last spring was with a Budget
Bureau team which made an or-
ganizational survey of EUCOM prob-
lems. Waldemar Thorson, who has
been acting Control Officer, retains
his duties as Assistant Control Officer.

Loyd V. Steere is acting Director of
the Office of Political Affairs, OMGUS,
succeeding Donald R. Heath who has
been transferred by the State Depart-
ment to another post.

Jacob D. Beam, who has been
Special Assistant on German Affairs
to the US Political Advisor, has been
transferred by the State Department
to Moscow as First Secretary and
Consul.

Thomas P. Headon, New York news-
paperman and former lieutenant
colonel with the Psychological War-
fare Division and the Office of War
Information during the war, is Deputy
Director of the Information Control
Division, OMGUS. He fills the
vacancy caused by the return of Lt.
Col. William Kinard to the United
States.

Alden E. Bevier has resigned as
Chief of the Public Welare Branch,
IA&C Division, OMGUS, to return to
the United ‘States as assistant director
of the Division of Welfare and
Medical Care, New York State Depart-
ment of Social Welfare. He is suc-
ceeded by Miss Mildred Biklen, Chief
of the Welfare Branch, OMG Berlin
Sector.

Dr. Roger H. Wells, Deputy Director
of the Civil Administration Division,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

LEAVES GERMANY—Henry Parkman,
Governmental Affairs Advisor to the
Commander-in-Chief, European Com-
mand, and US Military Governor in
Germany, is returning to the United
States to become a partner in a Boston
law firm. Formerly a brigadier gen-
eral in the Civil Affairs Division, War
Department, he was appointed Virec-
tor of the Civil Administration Divi-
sion, OMGUS, in November, 1945, and
continued in that capacity until named
to the staff of CINCEUR last March.
(Photo by PIO, OMGUS.)

OMGUS, has left for the United States
to resume his duties as professor of
political science at Bryn Mawr
College.

Recent appointment in the Finance
Division, OMGUS, include Albert F.
Bender, Jr., former chief of the Ex-
ternal Assets and Intelligence Branch,
as Executive Officer; Samuel M. Rose,
formerly of the Foreign Funds Control
Division, US Treasury, as Chief of the
External Assets and _ Intelligence
Branch; Frank J. Miller as Deputy
Chief of the same branch.

12

Recent appointments in the Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS, in-
clude Kenneth Dayton, former budget
director of the City of New York and
treasurer for UNRRA, as Deputy
Director of Bizonal Affairs; Philip
Mettger, former food and agricultural
advisor to the director of the RGCO,
as Chief of the Legislative Branch;
Alexander R. Forest, formerly as-
sociated with Civil Affairs work of
SHAEF, USGCC, and OMGUS, as
Chief of the Council of Foreign
Ministers Secretariat, OMGUS.

As Chief of the Legislation Branch
Mr. Mettger is responsible on behalf
of CAD for the conduct of analyses
and preparation of policy recommen-
dations and procedures concerning
the approval, modification, dis-
approval, or suspension of all types
of German legislative proposals, in-
cluding Land legislation, Laenderrat
legislation, bizonal legislation, and
ultimately, federal legislation, for the
immediate guidance of the Legislation
Review Board in making its final
recommendation as the OMGUS
“Supreme Court” on legislation to
the Deputy Military Governor and
Military Governor.

As Chief of the Council of Foreign
Ministers Secretariat of OMGUS, Mr.
Forest is responsible, under general
direction of the Director, for Ad-
ministrative and technical coordi-
nation of the work being carried on
by various Divisions at OMGUS to
implement and enforce CFM de-
cisions. Arranges preparation of such
OMGUS materials for presentation at
future sessions of CFM and Deputies
for Germany as State Department
may request. It is the center for all
coordinative activities connected with
the basis of peace conferences,

Brig. Gen. William Hesketh has been
named Deputy Inspector General,
EUCOM, replacing Col. Stanley G.
Saulnier.

Lt. Col. Blake C, Miller has been as-
signed by Hq EUCOM as Senior US
liasion officer to Headquarters, British
Army of the Rhine at Oeynhausen,
British Zone.

25 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 16 ---
PROGRESS IN ECONOMIC FUSION

Pump must be Primed, British Deputy Military Governor Tells Newsmen;
Unity of all Germany Still Prime Aim; Financial Reform is Necessary

Progress in the economic fusion of
the Combined US/UK Zones and steps
which must be taken to overcome
the many problems were detailed by
the British Deputy Military Governor,
Lt. Gen. Sir Brian Robertson, at a
press conference in Berlin 14 August.
Excerpts from the official report of
his remarks follow.

HE IMPORTANCE of a speedy

and substantial recovery in the
German economy is now generally
recognized... After the problem
presented by ,the present economic
situation of Great Britain herself,
there is perhaps no question more
ardently discussed in public speeches
and in the press in the United States,
Great Britain, and other western
countries. It is clear that this re-
covery depends on external assist-
ance. The pump must be primed.

An ‘attempt at this was made
when the agreement for the economic
fusion of the American and British
Zones was signed last December. It
was, however, fully realized at that
time that although the assistance
which would be injected into the
1omy of the two zones under
22: agreement would impose a very
considerable burden on the British
and American Governments yet it
would not be adequate. It was,
however, all that was, at that time,
practicable...

It must be remembered that the
fact of fusing the two zones does not
detach them from the rest of Ger-
many. One of the most serious
brakes retarding economic recovery
in the bizonal area is failure to in-
stitute financial reform. We cannot,
however, reform the finances in the
two zones independent of the rest of
Germany. Such a step would indeed
mean a division of Germany and we
are quite unwilling to take it unless
and until we are forced to do so.

'T WAS NEVER ‘to be expected that
fusion would solve all economic
difficulties in the two zones. On a
Previous occasion I described fusion

25 AUGUST 1947

as a useful step but warned that it
would not a panacea for all
ills. Fusion became effective on
1st January of this year. In the early
months Germany was in the grip of
one of the hardest winters experi-
enced in recent times. The economy of
the two Zones was frozen literally.
When the thaw came a fresh disaster
occurred in the form of a breakdown
in the supply of food. These circum-
stances which occurred during the
infancy of fusion have had a very
serious effect in retarding its
development.

IHE INSTRUMENT which we have

chosen for reconstituting the bizonal
economy is the Economic Council
which we have set up at Frankfurt,
together with the Executive Com-
mittee and economic administrations
which are subordinate to it. I think
that the Economic Council itself has
so far displayed an encouraging atti-
tude and zeal for its task. During its
last session it devoted principal
attention to the critical questions of
food administration, transport, and
economic planning. Useful discussions
took place on coal allocation, price
control, and other important subjects.
I believe that this Econmic Council
means business.

I was disappointed, however, regard-
ing the steps taken to appoint the
executive directors of the various
administrations. These executive
directors are civil servants. They
should be chosen for their technical
competence, and certainly not for
their political views. It remains our
policy to persuade the Germans to
accept our views as to the essen-
tially non-political character of a civil
service, In this instance lengthy bar-
gaining took place between the chief
political parties. In the end all ap-
pointments were filled by the nominees
of one political party while the other
retired into constructive opposition.

This result is not regarded as
satisfactory either by the Amer-
icans or by ourselves. However,

13

we must hope that the men who
have been chosen will realize that
they have been selected to carry out
a task of supreme difficulty and im-
portance in thé interests of their
fellow countrymen and not to promote
the narrow interests of apolitical party.

It has to be admitted that it is
extremely difficult for the Economic
Council and the Executive Committee
to carry out their task effectively at
the present time when the various
administrations are still dispersed.
Effective coordination and _ conirol
will not be possible until the import-
ant economic and transport admin-
istrations have been transferred from
Minden and Bielefeld respectively to
Frankfurt. The physical difficulties
about effecting these concentrations
are immense. The provision of ad-
equate accommodation for the German
staffs and of communications are the
principal difficulties. The United
States administration at Frankfurt is
doing its utmost to overcome them,
but there is still much to be done.

I wish next to remind you that
economy of a country cannot be re-
vived by Governmental machinery
alone. Our present arrangements have
been widely criticized as cumbersome
and over-bureaucratic. To a very
large extent I agree with these
criticisms, The difficulty is that the
complement to governmental machi-
nery does not exist. Under the
government there must be efficient
machinery within industry and com-
merce themselves to coordinate and
master this critically serious eco-
nomic situation. The fabric of industry
and commerce in the two zones which
was destroyed by the collapse of
Nazism has not yet been recreated. It
must be recreated.

BELIEVE that one of the most ur-

gent tasks for the Economic Coun-
cil is to insist that industry and
commerce should see to it that
the voluntary types of trade organi-
zation normal in any industrial coun-
try are effectively created so that

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
the administrative departments may
be able to enlist expert advice in
the planning of resources and
requirements which is so urgently
necessary.

The requirements and the capacity
of industry must be assessed by in-
dustry itself and the true facts pre-
sented to the departments concerned.
Trade, internal and externat, must be
promoted by the coordinated efforts
of commerce. The problems which are
produced by this economy of extreme
shortages must be grasped by those
who have the knowledge and ex-
perience to handle them. They must
play their part in proposing and in

implementing practical solutions.
There is a field for government
action, and a field for action by

industry and commerce. They must
work together, each making his pro-
per contribution to the common effort.

Lastly, I must refer to the German
worker. He has many causes for
justifiable complaint. The recent food
shortage is the most serious of them.
The lack of positive incentives is
another. I can understand and sym-
pathize with his grievances However,
I feel still bound to say this. The
German worker, and particularly the
miner, is not today working to his
full physical capacity. The recovery
of his country depends on his efforts
more than on anything else. This
should be his big incentive.

HE GERMAN economy has got

into such a mess that all who
have any responsibility for it must
unite their maximum efforts if it is
to be redeemed. I have never been
one to throw all blame on the Ger-
mans, either on those who are in
positions of responsibility orthose who
work in the mines and factories. I re-
cognize fully that the Occupying
Powers have heavy responsibilities
in this matter. On the other hand it
is no good for the Germans to sit back
and blame the Allies. It is time
for all to put their backs into it, and
I repeat that the German worker can
do better than he is doing at pre-
sent...

A critical and fair test of the suc-
cess of the fusion arrangements is the
progress made towards making the
economy of the combined zones self-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

supporting. I have always believed
in judging by results and do not dis-
pute that it is a fair test in this case.

The progress to date has not been
very encouraging. In the first seven
months of this year the combined
areas’ exports were valued at
$ 89,000,000, and of this amount over
$ 55,000,000 came from export of coal
and $15,500,000 from export of tim-
ber. There are some additional ex-
ports in the way of port and transit
charges which have not yet been
fully assessed but which are quite
substantial. Manufactured goods,
which contributed so much to the
total of Germany's pre-war exports,
are still contributing.only relatively
small amounts. This is not nearly
good enough. Improvement, of course,
would result from a general raising
of the bizonal economy...

HE DIFFICULTIES encountered in

restoring Germany's export trade
are very great. First of all there is
the general low level of the German
economy which restricts production
in all forms. Secondly there is a cer-
tain reluctance on the part of the
Germans to export to other countries
goods which are badly needed in
Germany itself. That is quite natural
but the Germans must make sacrifices
in order to obtain foreign exchange
with which to purchase the materials
and other things they need from
abroad. Just as we in _ the
United Kingdom are denying our-
selves many things we need in order to
raise the volume of exports quickly,
so the Germans, in no less measure,
will have to do. Iam sure that the time
is approaching when responsibility
for making ends meet, subject to a
defined extent of Allied assistance,
must be placed firmly on German
shoulders.

Then there is the break of German
contact with other countries which
has got to be repaired and many
prejudices to be overcome, Everyone
should recognize that it is necessary,
in the interests of world trade, to
bring Germany back into the family
of trading nations, and should make
it as easy as possible for individual
Germans to resume their commer-
cial contacts. -

14

Wage Negotiations
Permitted by Order

PPROXIMATELY 600,000 workers
including 25,000 women will be
affected by the quadripartite agree-
ment date designating the building in-
dustry and related trades and the
building materials industries as in-
dustries in which wage adjustments
are authorized in order to eliminate
inequalities imposed during the Nazi
regime, according to an announcement
by the Manpower Division, OMGUS.
This authorization will permit the
trade unions representing such crafts
as the carpenters, masons, plumbers,
electricians, and painters, and such
industries as sawmills, brick, cement,
concrete block, and natural stone to
proceed to negotiate ‘new collective
agreements with their employers. The
new agreements may, within limita-
tions, raise the level of wages in the
respective trades and industries in
order to correct inequities.

This ACA decision concludes the
efforts of the trade unions of the US
Zone to correct injustices introduced
into the wage structure during the
Nazi period of war and war pre-
paration and seeks to encourage the
building industry in the peaceful re-
covery of the German economy. The
adjustments granted in these in-
dustries are expected to stimulate the
expansion of employment and the
development of housing and other
needed construction.

Bonds Required

All custodians and their’ assistants
responsible for non-appropriated funds
are to be bonded, at the expense of
the funds, in amounts that will protect
the funds from loss, according to
OMGUS directive, AG 168 (FD),
“Boding of Custodians of Noappro-
priated Funds, 19 July 1947.

Position schedule forms of bonds
covering the position and not the
individual by name will be used.
Only corporate sureties approved by
the War Department and qualified
with the Treasury Department may
furnish such bonds.

Application for bonds will be made
to the Office of Chief of Finance,
European Command, APO 757 (Atten-
tion: Personnel and Bonding Branch).

25 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 18 ---
BOOKS AT OMGUS REFERENCE LIBRARY

HM271
Mi
825
M22

PSS507

M2

JC423

M3
sTN2597
M52
TX1975.AL
M5
HV9471
M5

JS331
MS
D821.U8
MS

PN4121
M7
DK290
M77
HG538
M721
E38

M7
HD2766.A6
M7
D825
M7
HG153
M7

D648
M72
JN318
M9

eed

Mg
Ref.
JS301
M92

HC286.3
Ni

HD6974
N1

JS101
N12

DD253
N3

HF5547

HB236.U5
N7

PZ1

015

Ref.
D505
044
HM66
04

25 AUGUST

Martin, E. D., Liberty (c1930)

McCormick, T. C, T. (ed.), Pro-
blems of the Postwar World; a
symposium on postwar problems,
by members of the faculty of
the Division of the social studies
at the University of Wisconsin
and others (1945)

McDowall, T. (ed.),
Literature (c1944)

Mencken, H. L., Notes on Demo-
cracy (c1926)

Middleton, W. L., The
Political System (c1933)

Miller, D. H., The Drafting of the
Covenant (1928)

Millspaugh, A. C., Crime Control
by the National Government
(1937)

Millspaugh, A. C., Local Demo-
cracy and Crime Control (1936)

Millspaugb, A. C., Peace Plans
and American Choices; the pros
and cons of world order (1942)

Monroe, A, H., Principles of
Speech; military ed. (1943)

Moore, H. L., Soviet Far Eastern
Policy, 1931—1945 (1945)

Morgan, C., Bretton Woods: clues
to a monetary mystery. (1945)

Morison, S. E., The Growth of the
American Republic (1942)

Mosher, W.E., Public Utility Reg-
ulation (1933)

Moulton, H. G., The Control of
Germany and Japan (1944)

Moulton, H. G., Financial Organi-
zation and the Economic system
(1938)

Moulton, H. G., War Debts and
World Prosperity (c1932)

Muir, R., How Britain is Govern-

America in

French

ed; a critical analysis of
modern developments in the
British system of government
(1940)
Municipal Police Administration
(1943)

The Municipal Year Book 1946;
the autoritative resume of acti-
vities and statistical data of
American cities.

Nathan, O., The Nazi Economic
System; Germany's mobilization
for war (1944)

National Industrial | Conference
Board, Inc. Industrial relations
programs in small plants (1929)

National Municipal League. Model
state constitution; with explana-
tory articles (1941)

Neumann, F., Behemoth; the struc-
ture and practice of National
Socialism 1933—1944 (1944)

Neuner, J, J. W., Office Manage-
ment and Practices (ci941)

Nevins, A., America, the Story of
a Free People (1942)

Newman, B., The New Europe
(1944)

Nourse, E. G., Price Making in a
Democracy (1944)

O'Brien, E. J. (ed.), The Best
Short Stories 1936 and _ the
Yearbook of the American Short
Story (1936)

Official German Documents relat-
ing to the World war (1923)

Ogburn, W. F., Sociology (1940)

1947

Books of value in presenting
a better understanding of inter-
national and local affairs are
constantly being added to the
OMGUS
located in Room 3002, Director
Building, Hq OMGUS, Berlin. A
list of recent acquisitions has
been prepared by the Chief Li-
brarian.
repeating this list is printed on
this page and more will appear
as space allows in future issues.

The book are arranged in
alphabetical order of authors or
titles with the date of publi-
cation, The number at tlhe left is
the
liberary. Those marked

“ cannot be taken from the library.
The letter at the start of the top
number
matter. The key to these num-
bers follows:

Key to List

Reference Libary,

The third in a series

its filing in the
“Ref"

key to

indicates the subject

A—General Works
B—Philosophy and Religion
C—History and Auxiliary Sciences
D—History (except America)
E—America

F—America

G—Geography and Anthropology
H—Social Sciences
J—Political Science
K—Law

L—Education

M—Music

N—Fine Arts

P—Language and Literature
Q—Science

R—Medicine

S—Agriculture
T—Technrology

U—Military Science
V—Naval Science
Z—Bibliography

JK421
0412
E302.H
06

JC585
088

PS586
095

Ref.
PE1625
095

Ref.
PF3683
Pl

Ogg, F. A., Essentials of Ameri-
can Government (c1943)

Oliver, F, S., Alexander Hamil-
ton; an essay on American union
(1927)

Orton, W. A., The Liberal Tra-
dition; a study of the social and
spiritual conditions of freedom
(c1945)

The Oxford Book of American
Verse; chosen and ed by Bliss
Carman (1927)

The Oxford English Dictionary;
being a corrected re-issue...
of a English dictionary on
historical principles (1933)

Paechter, H., Nazi-Deutsch; a
glossary of contemporary Ger-
man usage (1944)

15

PS1331.P1
PL

DKA4L
PL
DK290
P18
HCS55
Pl
HBI71
P3
JIX1425
P3.
HV8143
P3
PE1477
P3
HJ1119
P7
1JX1975.P5
P7

HC405
P76

TRi46
Qg
PRI175
Qa

1LB2805
R3

D659.G3
R3

HD3611
R3
HD91
R52

DD255
RS

HF1456
R74
E660.R5
R7133

DD101.5

Paine, A. B., Mark Twain; a bio-
graphy; the personal and lit-
erary life of Samuel Langhorne
Clemens (c1912)

Pares, B., A History of Russia
(1944)
Pares, B., Russia and the Peace

(1945)

Patterson, E, M., The World's Eco-
nomic Dilemma (1930)

Peek, G. N., Why Quit Our Own
(1936)

Perkins, D., The Monroe Doctrine
1826—1867 (1933)

Perkins, R. M., Elements of Police
Science (1942)

Perrin, P, G., Writing Good
English (1940)
Poole, K. E., German Financial

Policies 1932—1939 (1939)

Potter, P, B., An Introduction to
the Study of International Or-
ganization (1935)

Privredni godignjak jugoslavije i
prirutnik za trgovinu i promet

u Jugoistognoj Evropi, 1935—40;
urednik A. M, Premuzié (c1940)

Quarles, G. G., Elementary Photo-
graphy (1940)

Quiller-Couch,A. (ed.), The Oxford
Book of English verse, 1250—
1900 (1910)

Reeder, W. G., The Fundamentals
of Public School Administration
(c1941)

Reinhold, P. P., The Economic,
Financial, and Political State of
Germany since the War (1928)

Requa, M. L., The Relation of Gov-
ernment to Industry (1925)

Ridgeway, G. L., Merchants of
Peace; twenty years of business
diplomacy through the Inter-
national chamber of commerce
1919—1938 (1938)

Ripka, H., Munich: before and
after; a fully documented Cze-
choslovak account of the crises
of September 1938 and March
1939. 1939,

Robbins, L., Economic Planning
and International Order (1938)
Robbins, L., The Great Depression

(1934)

Rogers, J. E, T., The Economic
Interpretation of History (1894)

Rogers, J. C., World Policing
and the Constitution; an inquiry
into the powers of the President
and Congress, nine wars and a
hundred military _ operations,
1789—1945 (1945)

Rohlfing, C. C., Business and Gov-
ernment (c1941)

Roosevelt, T., Selections from
the correspondence of Theodore
Roosevelt and Henry Cabot
Lodge 1884—1918 (1925)

Rosinski, H., The German Army
(c1944)

Rosner, Ch., The Writing on the
Wall 1813—1943 (1943)

Rowe, H, K., The History of Re-

ligion in the United States
(1928)

Russian Pubiic Finance during the
War (1928)

Salvatorelli, L., A Concise History
of Italy; from prehistoric times
to our own day (1940)

(To be continued)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

EUCOM WAC Athletic Advisory
Committee, AG 334 SSP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 19 May 1947.

Change 5 to Title 22, Reports and
Histories, AG 014.12, OMGUS, 1 June
1947, Supersedes Title 22 and Changes
1 through 4. Text of new title issued
same date.

Phase out of Finance Offices, AG
322 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 June
1947. Pertains to the establishment of
Finance Office US Army in Paris by
1 July.

Organizational Maintenance—Auto-
motive Activities, AG 451 GDS-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 10 July 1947. Cites re-
sults of spot‘check survey for 20 June
to 29 June.

Enlistment in the Army Security
Agency, AG 342.06 AGP-B, Hq
EUCOM, 11 June 1947, Cites the
necessary qualifications.

Financing and Reporting Costs of
Care and Handling Surplus Property,
AG 400.703 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
13 June 1947. Gives instructions for
preparation of monthly reports.

Personnel Survey of the Army,
31 March 1947, AG 201.3 TIE-AGU,
Hq EUCOM, 17 June 1947. Reports
tabulated survey data of military per-
sonnel.

Move of Restitution Control Branch,
OMGUS (Rear) and Claims Office
Team No. 7726 to Karlsruhe, AG 322
GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 17 June 1947.

Distribution of P & A Policy Cables,
Staff Memorandum No. 49, Hq EUCOM,
18 June 1947. Requests staff divisions
discontinue asking for SMC copies of
WD cables on P&A policy matters.

New Location of Units (ECGOT-13),
AG 322 GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
18 June 1947, Rescinds USFET Mes-
sage No. SC-19506, 19 October 1946.

Circular No. 46, Disposition of
Effects, Hq EUCOM, 23 June 1947. A
guide for all concerned with the
disposal of : personal effects of
deceased personnel subject to mili-
tary law and in the European Com-
mand,

‘Graphic Training Aids—AG 060
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 1 July 1947.
Pertains to training posters for sol-
diers.

Physical Examination of Indigenous
Household Servants, Mess Attendants,
Bakers, Barbers, etc., AG 702.3 MCH-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 July 1947.

Report of Personnel in Army Ex-
change Activities, ETAES-4, AG 331.3
SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 21 July 1947.
Rescinds USFET letter of 21 February
1947.

Circular No. 62, Hq EUCOM,
31 July 1947. Section I, Abence with-
out Leave; Section II, Duty Travel
Orders and Clearance; Section III,
Photography; Section IV, Recission of
Obsolete Circulars.

Circular No. 63, Overseas Sepa-
rations, Hq EUCOM, 1 Aug. 1947. Cites
provisions and establishes respon-
sibilities governing overseas sepa-
ration of eligible personnel.

Circular No. 64, Hq EUCOM,
1 Aug. 1947. Section I; Reassignment
of Officers; Section II, Reporting of
Crimes, Offenses and Serious Inci-
dents; Section III, Individual Trans-
portation in the European Command.

Military Government Regulations,
AG 010.6 (CO), OMGUS, 2 Aug. 1947.
Gives current list of Titles and Chan-
ges to Titles of MGR’s.

Standing Operating Procedure No.
52, Security of Supplies, Hq EUCOM,
2 Aug. 1947, Supersedes USFET-SOP
52 of 22 June 1946,

Tables of Allowances, AG 400.34
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 5 Aug. 1947.
Concerns principles governing the
use of and accountability for author-
ized equipment.

US Army Logistical Support of IRO
Operations and IRO Personnel in the
US Occupied Zone of Germany, AG
400 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 Aug.
1947, Supersedes former instructions
which may conflict with this direc-
tive.

60mm and 8imm Mortar Ammu-
nition with Fuze, PD, M52 and M53,

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

AG 471 ORD-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
6 Aug. 1947. Concerns the withdrawal
of this ammunition and the reporting
of same by 31 Aug. 1947 on Reports
Control Symbol ECORD-OT-35,

Assignment and Use of Message
Precedence, AG 311.2 SIG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 6 Aug. 1947. Cites policy set
forth in Circular 140, WD, 4 June
1947,

Status of Captured Enemy Material
and Aluminum Scrap Dumps, AG 386.3
GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 Aug. 1947.
Concerns former US Army instal-
lations presently guarded by German
police or civilian guard personnel.

Leaves, Passes, and Travel in the
European Theater, AG 210.711 GPA-
AGP-B, Hq EUCOM. 6 Aug. 1947.
Rescinds USFET letter, 30 December
1946,

Reparation of US Army Requisition
Forms 6GA and 6GR, AG 400.12 GSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 Aug. 1947. Cites
common errors in preparation of
procurement documents,

School for Mess Stewards and Food
Service Supervision, AG 352 GOT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 7 Aug. 1947.

Branch Offices, Combined Travel
Board, AG 322 (AG), OMGUS, 7 Aug.
1947, Refers to future boards in the
four Laender and their responsibilities.

Objectives of Military Government,
AG 092 (SS), 8 Aug. 1947. Refers to
OMGUS letter AG 201 of 18 July
1947 and changes file number to AG
092 (SS).

Leipzig Fair 2—7 September 1947,
Leipzig, Saxony (Soviet Zone), AG
001 (ED), OMGUS, 8 Aug. 1947. Gives
full information concerning the Fair
and the allocation of Fair Identity
Cards.

Relations of Bipartite Control Office
and Existing Control Groups, AG 091.3
(SG). OMGUS, 9 Aug. 1947. Concerns
transfer of responsibilities and func-
tions from the Control Groups to the
Bipartite Control Office in Frankfurt.

Travel Authorization for US Allied
and Neutral Civilian Employees, OM-
GUS, Berlin Command, Berlin Sector
and OCC, Berlin, AG 200.4 (PO),
OMGUS, 12 Aug. 1947.

MG Circular No, 2, OMGUS, 14 Aug.
1947. Cites advanced notfice of amend-
ments to MG Circular No. 1.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF