--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 108 / 1 SEPTEMBER 1947 :
Library of the
NCT 13 1947

.. University of Wisconsin

HESSIAN HARVEST

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG
BIEDEN~
R
ore MARBURG

LAUTERBACH
OBER =
LAHNKREIS.
FRIEOBERG
fine ast BODINGEN
gs QBERTAUNUS|
fp

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

WAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH

EIDELBERG)
BRUCHSAL
HEILBRONN
ae: BACKNANG

LEONBER ee
BOBLINGEN Foases\

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

HARVEST — The agricultural yield of this
summer is one of the major situations
facing the Occupational Powers in Germany.
Three articles in this issue seeking to
portray this situation are: Four-Zone Inspec-
tion. of Food & Agriculture on page 3,
Farmers Strive for High Crop Yield on
page 6, and Fair Harvest Predicted in UK
Zone on page 7. (Photo by Army Signal
Corps)

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

A Quadripartite Inspection Team of lead-
ing food and agriculture specialists of the
Four Powers recently visited all four zones
to study the progress being made in farm-
ing and harvesting. It was accompanied on
most of the tour by Arthur Settel, public
information officer of the Economics Divi-
sion, OMGUS, who prepared the article,
Four-Zone Inspection of Food & Agriculture,
from the observations and comments of the
team. Mr, Settel, a newspaperman in the
United States before the war and a former
public relations officer with the US Air
Force, has been PIO with the Economics
Division for above two years.

Bizonal Organization was written by
Stephen L, Freeland, public relations officer
with the bipartite agencies headquarters in
Frankfurt. He is closely associated with the
progress of the rapidly developing economic
fusion of the US and British Zones.

NEXT WEEK

The development of Civil Liberties among
the Germans since the start of the occupa-
tion will be described by Henry Parkman,
recently advisor to the Military Governor
on governmental affairs and formerly direc-
tor of the Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS. He prepared the article before he
left to return to the United States to enter
@ private legal firm.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 108 1 September 1947

Four-Zone Inspection of Food & Agriculture .

Farmers Strive for High Crop Yield .
Fair Harvest Predicted in UK Zone .
Press and Radio Comment
Industrial Index Higher .

Bizonal Organization

Structural Chart of Bizonal Organization .

German Reactions
Books of OMGUS Reference Library
Official Instructions

Station List .

INFORMATION

Oooh Ge

10
11
12
17
19
20
21

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
FOUR-ZONE INSPECTION
OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE |

BY ARTHUR SETTEG: .

he

E SOILS of Germany are seriously

depleted of plant nutrients. They
must be replenished with nitrogen
and phosphate fertilizers in great
quantities if they are to do the work
demanded of them. These soils have
been overworked and undernourished
in the past two years with the result
that the population of Germany, now
hovering close to 70 millions, is hav-
ing difficulty in feeding itself. But
given the necessary amounts of
fertilizers, these soils will produce
the highest yields per acre in Europe,
except Belgium.

Much of continental Europe is in
the same plight, with acute shortages
not only of: fertilizer but also of
critically needed high quality seed,
farm implements and machinery,
fodder for cattle, and skilled labor.
The situation is grim but not des-

(above) German worker tending plants before
being transferred
(below) Cutting lettuce to help feed the
population
Signal Corps)

to gardens in Berlin.

in Berlin. (Photos by Army

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

Hessian

perate. It can be eased only if the
Germans work hard, get out of the
black. market, distribute existing
supplies equitably and fairly, and
develop enough export industries to
enable them to pay for the vast quan-
tities of food which they must import
from overseas.

This was the general concensus of
a party of 24 officials who rep-
resented the Food and Agriculture
Branches of US, British, Soviet and
French Military Governments who
returned recently from a 3,500-
mile inspection tour of all four
zones of occupation. The problem
of feeding the Germans is one
which is worrying not only Ger-
man officialdom but also the
occupying authorities. Workers can-
not be expected to produce their
maximum when they themselves or
their families are hungry. Likewise,
Germany will have little or nothing
to offer by way of contributing to
the recovery of Europe as long as
the present stalemate persists.

3

farmers

'N THE INTEREST of hastening a

solution to this problem, more
specifically, to come face to face
with the German farmer and hear
from his own lips the problems with
which he must wrestle, the four
elements comprising the quadrilateral
Food and Agriculture Directorate of
the Allied Control Council organized
a thoroughgoing inspection tour of
the four zones. The writer ac-
companied the group by courtesy of
the Economic Directorate.

The tour was concerned with fact-
finding and an over-all exchange of
information as to harvest prospects,
import needs, maximum production
of basic food crops and interzonal
exchange of agricultural products
which are in surplus. Senior members
of the party, outstanding experts in
their field, were in their questioning
never satisfied with statements of
fact. They wanted to know why the
potato crop in Schleswig-Holstein was
superior to early spring estimates.
Were new methods being used which

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

ahh rye which had been
harvested early this year. (Army Signal Corps photo)

--- Page 7 ---
could profit farmers in other areas?
Was Minnesota seed superior to
Fruehbote (early spring variety of
German potato)? Officials were not
satisfied with the assertion by Ernst
Matz, tenant at Farm Quarnbeck
near Achterwehr in the British Zone,
that his herd of “Angle breed” cows
(so called because the Angles who
invaded Britain centuries ago in-
habited this area) were producing
4,220 liters of milk per year, milk
with a fat content of 3.86 percent, a
near record figure. They wanted to
know why.

IE TOUR left Berlin in mid-July,

spending three or four full days
in each zone. In the British Zone,
prospects for the next harvest were
described as “slightly better than
expectations.” At first blush this in-
telligence seems” reassuring - but
closer questioning revealed that ex-
pectations were not very good be-
cause of the past severe winter, and
that certain grain crops look better
than others.

From the vantage point of a train
window the fields appeared de-
ceptively lush and green, and as the
tich countryside unfolded its chang-
ing panoramas, an observer wonder-
ed why there is a food shortage in
Germany. The answer lay in the pre-
dominance of women laborers who
till the soil at a ratio of several
women to one man; in the inordinate
quantities of manure piles with which
the earth must constantly be re-
plenished so that the crops will grow
and prosper; in the sight of milk
cows drawing the plow for want of
oxen and horses; in the primitive
implements which the farmer is
forced to use for want of tractors
and threshing machines.

The officials visited pedigree cattle
farms where scientific efforts are
made to eliminate the dread tuber-
cular cow whose milk is the scourge
of Germany. They studied land re-
clamation projectcs where plans are
in execution for the conversion of
swamp and forest land to agriculture.
They spent hours at plant breeding
and research institutes where scien-
tists pit their knowledge against the
infinite variety of pests which are
constantly attacking crops. They
climbed into subterranean wine

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

cellars in the Mosel Valley and
visited dairies in the hills of Wuert-
temberg.

T THE GREAT sprawling Port of
Hambuig, the party was taken
by motor launch to the quays where
American ships were discharging
their cargo of grain which is being
hauled to Germany at the rate of
more than 300,000 tons per monfh for
use of the Combined US/UK Area.
By coincidence, the name of one of
the ships was “The American Far-
mer,’ a unique reminder of the debt
of gratitude owed the USA by many
nations of the world, which, but for
these great cargoes of wheat, might
be swept by famine and epidemic.
In Mariensee, between Hamburg
and Hanover, the party was given a
demonstration of the technique of
artificial insemination of cattle by
which dairy herds are scientifically
improved. Operated under the aus-

pices of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute,

the center maintains two Holstein-
Frisian bulls which are booked out
to farms within a distance of 40 kilo-
meters, The offspring of Gunthe, one
of the two bulls, were examined at
one of these farms and proved to be
of highly superior quality.

At Scharnhorst, officials examined
the various plant diseases which
afflict crops in the Hanover region.
Particular attention was paid to ex-
periments with the soy bean growing
in comparative culture solutions. The
bean should prove especially valu-
able to the German economy in view
of its many uses as nutritional meat
substitute, a source of fiber, and
many plastic derivatives,

IONSIDERABLE interest was evi-

denced by the quadripartite
group in a coal miners’ canteen situ-
ated at Oberhausen, in the heart of
the Ruhr not far from Duesseldorf.
Typifying one of the most important
of steps being taken by Military Gov-
ernment to increase coal production,
the well-stocked canteen is directed
and operated by Germans under Brit-
ish supervision and, through the
supplementary meals and sandwiches
distributed to the coal miners, may
yet spell out the answer to the vital
problem of how to increase coal pro-
duction.

Coal output in this mine averages
one ton per man per day for the 2,300
workers it employs. A wartime high
of 8,000 tons which were produced
daily by 5,000 miners employed in
the same mine between 1939 and
1944, is the goal at which the coal
mine is aiming. The mine directorate
attributed the drop to lack of incen-
tives in the form of consumer goods
and insufficient food.

Last autumn Military Government,
conscious of the fact that without
sufficient coal the European economy
would continue to remain unstable
and dependent on foreign aid, intro-
duced a food incentive program for
coal miners. Under the provisions of
the scheme the cost of which is being
borne equally by the US and UK
Gevernments, coal miners -receive
substantial supplementary rations fix-
ed according to the type of work per-
formed. In addition, points which are
awarded for attendance and produc-
tivity are exchanged for bacon,
schnapps, tobacco, shoes, clothing,
and other commodities which are not
generally available to the average
consumer.

A survey of the Osterfeld-Ober-
hausen canteen disclosed that 2,300
warm meals, with a calorific value of
982 units per meal and consisting of
sweet bread soup and _ potatoes,
sausage and sour cabbage, are served
between shifts to the miners each
working day, These meals are varied
over a period of six days to include
groats, a form of wheatmeal; vege-
table soup; stew and noodles; bean-
soup with bacon; peasoup; meat and
various: vegetables,

'N ADDITION, each miner is given

a sandwich which he eats while
in the mine pit. It consists of 155
grams of bread, 18 grams of butter,
35 grams of sausage or 40 grams of
cheese. A very heavy underground
worker gets two such sandwiches,
bringing the total number of calories
which he receives daily to 4,000
which exceeds the per man per day
ration issued to the US soldier.

In general, the problem of the Ruhr
is the problem of Germany. In the
period between the two great wars,
this country outstripped the rest of
the world in its development of
arable land from swamps and forestry

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 8 ---
bach fisheries research establishment
in Konstanz, rounded out the tour
through the French Zone.

The shortage of skilled male farm
labor and the almost complete ab-
sence of modern farm machinery is
partly compensated by the large num-
ber of women who are to be seen,
not only in the British and French,

(left) Quadripartite inspection team during
visit in Stuttgart — left to right: Alexander
F, Kabanov, Soviet representative; Phillip
Jussieux, French representative; Col. Hugh
B. Hester, US representative; Brig. Gen.
Townsley, commander of Stuttgart military
communily; Sumner Sewall, Director of
OMG Wueritemberg-Baden; A. Khunar, Brit-
ish representative. (below) German farmer
using slow, tiresome method for harvesting

land, and in its general application of

fertilizers to scientific agriculture.
Despite well organized efforts to
attain self-sufficiency, Germany has
always depended heavily on imports.
When the area east of the Oder-
Neisse was detached from Germany
and put under the administration of
Poland, Germany lost 25 percent of
her arable land. The problem was
aggravated by an influx of nine mil-
lion persons into the Combined
US/UK Area from eastern areas in-
cluding Czechoslovakia, by lack of
chemical fertilizer and quality seeds,
by loss of manpower particularly
skilled farm labor, by black market
brought about through lack of con-
sumer goods and a stable currency.

(E SITUATION in the French

Zone was summed up by Occu-
pation authorities and local German
farmers as being “not too good but
with prospects for improvement.
The harvest is expected to exceed
expectations by between 10 and 20
percent provided drought conditions
are broken in some areas. Like the
other zones, French authorities are
required to purchase grains out of
their meager supplies for import into
Germany but despite these efforts,
they have been unable to meet the
ration level in some areas. The
‘French Zone is short in many vitally
important food products principally
sugar beet, artificial fertilizer and
wheat grains which have to be pro-
cured either from the other zones or
abroad.

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

The Food and Agriculture party evi-
denced ‘great interest in a plant en-
gaged in the manufacture of powdered
milk and milk products in tablet
form. The plant, located at Kempten,
Allgaeu, is equipped with machinery
which was referred to by one of the
American visitors as being “compar-
able to any plant of its kind in the
United States." The hugé drying
boiler, the enormous separation vats,
the pasteurization machine, glistened
in immaculate cleanliness. Besides
full milk powder which when mixed
with water is the nutritional equi-
valent of real milk, the plant pro-
duced skim milk powder for wurst
skins, cakes, etc.; a fatty by-product
used in the manufacture of butter;
irradiated milk tablets; acidolpholus
milk used for the treatment of diges-
tive ailments; buttermilk tablets. With
its 76 workers, the plant uses nor-
mally between 17,000 and 18,000 liters
of milk daily but it has a capacity
for processing 40,000, Dr. Leo Karner,
director of the plant, said there was
no problem of coal or electric power
or labor supply. ‘‘All we need is more
milk,” he said.

IHE PARTY spent a day in the

vineyards of the Rhine and Mosel
Valleys. Members sampled the well
known champagnes and wines pro-
duced in the cooperative cellars of
Mainz and Bernkastel, Wegenrohr,
and Trier. Outside of the town of
Waldshut the commission spent an
afternoon inspecting a farm which
was described as typical of other
farms in the zone. A day at the Auer-

5 .

his grain. (photos from DENA-Bild)

--- Page 9 ---
but also the US Zone. An official of
the British delegation observed that
the labor supply in Germany is the
country’s greatest industrial potential.
Most of the fields are very small and
split up, with the result that most of
the harvest has to be cut by hand.
In the US Zone, the food officials
were briefed in each of the three
main Land capitals by German agri-
culture officials and then escorted
through representative areas where
organized efforts at maximizing agri-
cultural production can be seen. At
Bierstadt, in Land Hesse, the party
examined a project showing a sample
of 60 new small gardens which were
typical of 100,000 additional plots
allocated last spring; a potato seed
multiplying plot indicative of the
attempt to increase Hessian seed po-
tato production this year; a demon-

*K

stration of how American imported
seed potatoes fare in this climate.

At Erbenheim the party visited the
Hessian state stud farm, and at Ma-
tildahof an example of large-scale
farming on _ state-owned property
where the specialty is production of
seed grain.

‘N LAND Wuerttemberg-Baden the

commission was conducted to the
Stuttgart Dairy Cooperative to view
an improved butter machine, through
the Filder area to observe the early
cabbage harvest, the Altdorf fertilizer
experiments and the Hohenheim Agri-
cultural College. Officials spent some
time interviewing recently settled farm-
ers, most of them refugees from
Bessarabia and the Sudetenland, who
have been established on the land
under the Land Reform Law. A garden

* * *

development on former sheep pasture
and other land reclamation projects,
featured the visit to Bavaria.

Despite the drought conditions
which prevail in many parts of Ger-
many, it is generally agreed that the
weather has been excellent, provid-
ing close to perfect agricultural con-
ditions, Heavy showers have broken
the long periods of sunny hot days
so that rye, which is the heaviest of
all grain crops in Germany, barley
and oats, plus peas, beans and other
pulses, were ready for harvesting in
July. It is the considered opinion of
specialists that if farmers make full
delivery and German officials make
equitable distribution, existing calorie
levels can and will be met during the
next 12 months. This assumes that
imports will continue at their present
rate from the United States.

*k

Farmers Strive for High Crop Yield

Observations made on the quadri-
partite Food and Agriculture tour were
made by Dr. Conrad Hammar, deputy
chief of the Food and Agriculture
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS,
in a radio address 22 August over
RIAS, the station in the US Sector of
Berlin. Excerpts from the text of his
talk follows.

N EVERY area the party got close

to the soil and to farm operations,
talking to German farmers in their
barnyards and fields, and to officials,
on land reclamation areas, land settle-
ment projects and at experiment farms
and seed testing stations... Every-
where we went there were evidences
of tremendous efforts to get maximum
production. There were no idle fields
and where there had been winter
killing, farmers had carefully replanted
with spring crops. Some fields were
weedy because winter killing had
thinned out the wheat and occasional
pastures and meadows showed evi-
dences of neglect but the great majority
of fields were beautifully tended and
clean. Farmers, as usual, had been
working hard.

On the other side of the picture,
there were some things the farmers
had not done. Not enough meadow
had been plowed up for the production

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

of food crops for direct human con-
sumption on the one hand, and there
had been planted too much oats, bar-
ley and other fodder crops on the
other... Some oats and barley are
needed for draft animals: horses, oxen,
and cows; but the area planted to
them is too great and must be cut. As
a member of the party pointed out,
the choice is too nearly one of pro-
viding food for pigs or for children
and too many farmers are still think-
ing of their pigs.

Farming depends on weather as
well as on what farmers do and the
weather this year has been as usual.
Like human beings, weather is always
partly good and partly bad. The best
growing season has been in the
British Zone where crops, particularly
potatoes and beets, are very promis-
ing with prospective yields much
above last year. The season has been
worst in Hesse and the adjoining
areas of the French Zone with a late
spring and a severe summer drought.
The dry weather in these areas has
cut grain yields though not as much
as many farmers and some officials
claim. Potatoes and beets were hurt
but after the recent rains they should
make a recovery sufficient for a good
crop. In the American Zone, Wuert-

6

temberg-Baden has enjoyed the best
season. Farmers in Bavaria complain-
ed of too dry weather and there was
some suffering from drought in the
Soviet Zone.

\N THE prospective yield from the

American seed potatoes that
were shipped in to fill the gap made
because so much of the supply of
German seed froze during the winter...
it is still too early to be completely
sure about the yields and it is true
that these potatoes are, after all, a
long way from home even if they
were from the northern part of the
United States where the best seed is
produced. However, farmers and Ger-
man experts everywhere reported that
the plants were doing excellently and
in places better than the German
varieties. The fields we viewed sup-
ported this conclusion. Large, vigorous
plants are the best insurance of good
yields and both farmers and experi-
ment station officials were hopeful.
One thing is certain. The import of
these seed potatoes will mean a great
increase in total production.

One characteristic of these Ameri-
can potatoes to which the German
consumers are going to have to
accustom themselves next fall and
winter is that the American potatoes

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
are white while choice German varie-
ties of eating or table potatoes are
yellow. The nutritional qualities and
the taste of both are the same, how-
ever, and German consumers should
have little difficulty in adjusting
their tastes to the white potatoes.

CROP NO better than, and per-

haps poorer than last year is a
serious matter for consumers and
places great burdens upon Military
Government and German Food and
Agriculture officials. The help that
can be supplied from the United States
is limited. There are too many other
countries clamoring for food. The US
Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Ander-
son, stated emphatically that the
United States was doing all it could
and gave assurance on his recent
visit here that Military Government
officials could count on the arrival of
300,000 tons of bread grains per month.
To count on any more than that, he
said, would be dangerous. He pointed
out that of all the countries of the
world, only England was receiving
more bread grains from the United
States than the bizonal area of Ger-
many. It is for this reason that Mili-
try Government has been hammering
on the fact that food production in

*

This article is reprinted by per-
mission of the British Zone Review,
monthly magazine of the Control
Commission for Germany (British
Element).

IARMERS WITH years of experi-

ence behind them and British
officials, equally well qualified, are
of the opinion that this year’s harvest
will be as high as last year; some put
it at ten percent above last year's
average, but the exact rate cannot, of
course, be known until all grain crops
have been gathered and threshed.
The reason for these prospects is the
excellent weather which has provided
well-nigh perfect growing conditions.
Spells of strong sunshine interspersed
with heavy showers of rain have
brought on the grain crops at such a
speed that by the middle of July rye

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

Germany must be increased and

. collections maximized.

The Quadripartite Party was inter-
ested in what was being done to in-
sure full food collections. In. the
US/UK bizonal area, food collection is
very much the responsibility of the
German authorities themselves. Ad-
ministration of collection programs is
somewhat different in each Land in
this area but in all the Laender, a
corps of Allied and German inspectors
will be used from now on to insure
that not only willing but even the
most unwilling farmers deliver their
quota of food to market. These in-
spectors will get right out on the
farms as they are already doing and

check the records of individual
farmers...
A farmer in Kreis Nuertingen

(Wuerttemberg-Baden) was asked if
all the wheat being threshed by a
machine working on one of his farms
had come from that farm. He replied
that the wheat had been raised on
two farms. When Military Govern-
ment officials wanted to see the
second farm, he led them to a distant
field where he said part of the wheat
had been raised. Examination showed
that the second field had produced
only barley and the man was fined

* * *
Fair Harvest Predicted in

was ready for cutting and the winter
wheat was not far behind it. Barley
and oats were almost as promising,
and those other crops known as pulses
(peas, beans, etc.) which are used in
this country as breadgrains had bene-
fited equally well.

The severe weather of last winter
had a delaying effect of two kinds on
the preparations for the harvest;
firstly the severe frost gripped the
newly-sown grain before it was cover-
ed with a blanket of snow, nature's
usual protection, and, as a result,
some of it was killed and had to be
resown in the spring; secondly the
thaw was so long delayed that by the
time the ground was dry enough for
ploughing the season was already a
month or more late. It was presumed
that because of this late cultivation

7

and given seven days in jail and an
additional seven days’ suspended
sentence,

O support these inspectors, the

Food Ministry in Hesse will place
an official checker with every thresh-
ing machine in the Land. There are
1,700 machines, to thresh the grain
from 350,000 hectares and for 64,000
farmers. But maximum food collec-
tions must be insured no matter how
big the job. Similar active measures
will be undertaken in the other
Laender of the US/UK occupation
area...

No magic is going to make living
in post-war Germany comfortable for
a while. For years the price that must
be paid for the war and Hitlerism will
have to go on. These food and agri-
culture programs are a necessity if
the population is to survive. Food for
the cities will aid reconstruction of
industries that can produce the ma-
chinery, building material, fertilizers
and other things the farmer needs.
Farmers’ sacrifices are like other
peoples’ sacrifices during these years
of hard necessity and the hopeful
aspect of the situation is that a peace-
ful democratic reconstruction is under-
way.

*

UK Zone

and sowing the growing time had
been so reduced that yields were
bound to be below that of last year’s,
but the weather has since then more
than made up for its past behaviour.

Rye is by far the heaviest crop of
all grain in Germany and the yield of
this cereal, judging by the quantity
already cut, is likely to be good. The
hopes of a like harvest of wheat are
as high as those for rye and together
these two breadgrains should make a
difference to the grain stocks position
in the zone. Although more rain
would benefit those crops such as
potatoes and sugar beet it will not be
welcome from now until the harvest
of grain has been gathered. Heavy
rain during harvesting operations
would make cutting difficult or even
spoil the grain while in stock, and

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
the result would be a decline in the
yield of millable grain.

JHERE HAVE been other handicaps

besides the severe weather to this
year's food production. One is the
inadequate application of fertilizers,
The soil of the Northwest German
plain is at best a light sandy loam and
in order to get high yields it must be
given as much plant food as possible.
This is done by raising the content of

humus as high as possible and the.

means used are the application of
farmyard manure, or the ploughing—
in either of a green crop planted for
the purpose or of grassland. The sec-
ond of these has not been used to
any appreciable extent, except the
case of grassland no longer needed
as pasture because of the reduction of
livestock, in a Germany obliged to
use every possible arable acre for
the production of breadgrains. Arti-
ficial fertilizers are used to make the
plant food in the soil available to the
crops more quickly than they would
be naturally, and the provision of
sufficient fertilizers has again proved
to be impossible, although a consider-
able increase on last year has been
achieved.

To show what has been done it may
be said that since 1945 there has been

a considerable increase in the avail-
ability of artificial fertilizers made to
the German farmers. In that year a
comparatively small percentage of the
years 1938/42 was available. Nitrogen
totaled only 26 percent of that aver-
age, phosphate 19 percent, potash
45 percent. That means that we had
only 18 percent of the nitrogen re-
quirements, 12 percent of the phos-
phate and 35 percent of the potash in
both Zones. For the crop year
1946/47 we were able to apply to the
land 60 percent of the average appli-
cation of nitrogen used in 1938/42,
28 percent of the phosphates and
51 percent of the potash. This has
proved a considerable aid in raising
yields to their present increase.

IHE STEEL for renewal and replace-

ment of agricultural machinery is
still extremely short, including reapers
and binders and threshing machines,
required for the purpose of harvest-
ing. As with all other agricultural
machinery these are in extremely
short supply and many of them are
old and almost worn-out. The same
story recurs in the matter of the pro-
visions of such requisites as binder
twine. This has again proved to be
extremely difficult this year and great
efforts have been made to obtain a

FAMOUS FREIBURG Passion Play was presented in Frankfurt last month.
The above scene was of the crucifixion wilh N.G. Fassnacht in the role of
Christ. (Photo from DENA-Bild)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

supply of this very necessary require-
ment from Switzerland. Skilled labor
is still very short, but there are a
large number of unskilled but willing
hands to help with the harvest. Many
of those latter are old men, and
women and children, who have been
expelled from Eastern territories and
have found refuge on farms in the
Zone; their labor will go far to make
up in numbers what it lacks in skill.

Potatoes, a staple diet of the Ger-
mans, promise well, but the late
varieties may have been spoiled
slightly from being planted during the
very hot weather. Sugar beet has
benefited greatly from the very good
growing weather and there should be
no doubt at all that the British Zone
can continue to meet the needs of the
Zone for sugar throughout the next
twelve months.

Personnel Changes

George B. McKibbin, lawyer and
former state director of finance for
Illinois, has assumed his new duties as
Director of Internal Affairs and Com-
munications Division, OMGUS. He
succeeded Dwight P. Griswold, re-
cently appointed director of the Amer-
ican Mission for Aid to Greece.

Mr, McKibbin, prominent in phil-
anthropic, civic, and religious organ-
izations, was once a candidate for
mayor of Chicago. Born at Keosauqua,
Iowa, 26 April 1888, he attended Iowa
Wesleyan College and the University
of Chicago law school.

Illegal Search

A Wuerttemberg-Baden town mayor
was given a three months and one-
week sentence by a German court
because he had illegally ordered the
arrest and confinement of a citizen in
his community as well as illegally
ordered the man’s apartment searched,
according to a report to Civil Ad-
ministration Division, OMGWB.

Erich Nuthmann, mayor of the com-
munity of Blaubeuren in Landkreis
Ulm, was convicted of violation of
Articles 5 and 6 of the Wuerttemberg-
Baden constitution which protect any
citizen from arbitrary arrest and un-
authorized search of his home,

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
PRESS OPINION strongly sup-
U ported the establishment of
a European Customs Union as the
basis of a long-range plan for reco-
very of Europe. Editorial writers
noted the turn of the Paris economic
conference to the consideration of a
Customs Union and _ cite the
BENELUX agreement among Belgium,
the Netherlands, and Luxembourg as
the first move toward a _ unified
Europe.

Columnist Anne O'Hare McCormick
in the New York Times called the
BENELUX agreement as the first
counter-move against Europe's fatal
drift toward division and disinte-
gration. ‘

“The, Marshall proposal has set in
motion most thorough-going survey of
Europe's assets and liabilities that
has ever been made, she wrote.
“More, the inquiry has convinced
experts that the economic coopera-
tion which Secretary Marshall called
for means economic integration, Their
balance sheets show clearly that in
a long view salvation depends on
battering down economic frontiers
and giving nations of Europe, a con-
tinent so much poorer, smaller, and
more populous than ours, the bene-
fits of free trade among the states
that is the chief factor in prosperity
of the American Union. This in itself
justifies the Marshall initiative.”

The Wall Street Journal estimated
that a Customs Union could aot
materialize in less than 10 years but
considered it part of long-range plan
of what Europe can and will do to
help itself. The editorial continued:

“A Customs Union would be a first
step toward full integration of the eco-
nomies of the countries concerned, and
that is, for example, the final objec-
tive of BENELUX. For all practical

economic, purposes, the several
countries gradually become one
country. This is tremendously im-

portant as constituting progress

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

European Customs Union

toward that most necessary of goals,
from point of the view of peace and
prosperity, a United States of Western
Europe.

“It is generally conceded that the
beginnings of the European federation
must be made along economic rather
than political lines. With such an
economic beginning made in form
of a Customs Union, there is a
reasonable chance that political
accord would follow.”

The New York Herald Tribune
said the attempt to secure world-
wide agreement on tariff and trade
policies at Geneva hasmade a Euro-
pean Customs Union almost manda-
tory. It then said: “As a matter of
primary importance, a union would
facilitate exchange of goods among
member states and strengthen the
western community, weakened by
enforced secession of eastern nations
under Russian pressure.

“It would mitigate exaggerated
nationalism which has been Europe's
curse and the cause of so many
wars, giving participants a sense of
their common needs and common
destiny. And perhaps, in the course
of time, the dream of so many Euro-
pean statesman might be realized in
political union, not forced by a
conqueror nor imposed by the strong,
but springing from day-to-day collabo-
ration in a field of joint interest.”

The Philadelphia Inquirer called a
Customs Union a _ necessity if
countries west of the “Iron Curtain"
are to take full advantage of US aid
and continued:

“One major condition in the
proposal of Secretary of State
Marshall is that to obtain our aid,
European nations ascertain their own
needs and help themselves as far as
they are able. Helping themselves,
it appears to us, should certainly
include a Customs Union to facilitate
trade and all economic relations.’

9

The electricity supply position in
Germany last winter was chaotic.
Whole areas were deprived of electri-
city and only the most vital industries
were able to carry on. Both Military
Government and the German author-

ities are determined that such a
position shall not be repeated during
the coming winter and strenuous
efforts are being made to ensure that
there are coal stocks at power stations
which will be sufficient to secure the
maintenance of a reasonable supply
of electricity.

Due largely to the efforts of the
miners and the transport employees,
increasing amounts of coal are being
delivered to the power stations. At
the same time, however, more coal is
being used in power stations than was
anticipated and if the present rate
continues, the winter stocks of coal
will be endangered.

This is due largely to two reasons:
(a) The severe drought which has
seriously reduced the generation of
electricity by hydropower and (b) the
increasing consumption of electricity
by all classes of consumers.

At the beginning of July a plan
was put into force throughout the
Anglo-American Zone for the restric-
tion of electricity consumption, each
Land being given a maximum weekly
consumption figure which was not to
be exceeded. This figure necessitated
a reduction in over-all consumption
of electricity of approximately ten per-
cent of the actual consumption in
April, not a very heavy sacrifice to
make in order to ensure a reasonably
satisfactory supply during the coming
winter. Unfortunately, instead of a
ten percent decrease, consumption has
actually increased, the latest figure
showing an increase of about five per-
cent over the April figure.

The remedy lies largely in the hands
of the German people, each one of
whom can help by avoiding all pos-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
sible waste of electricity. Electricity
is vital for the economic recovery of
Germany and every German is called
on now to do his bit to help in
this recovery.—Joint US/UK announ-
cement,

Added Medical Check

The ministers of political liberation
- have been notified that Military Gov-
ernment no longer will approve the
release of interness unless their phys-
ical or mental incapacity is certified
by an American doctor or by an im-
partial physician who is a known
opponent of National Socialism.

This cabled directive has been put
into effect because of the situation
uncovered at Augsburg. An American
doctor examined 26 internees in the
Augsburg Camp whom German intern-
ment camp physicians had classified
as physically incapacitated and whose
release was urgently recommended.
Nineteen such classifications were
found to be unjustified, and among
the 19 were some of the most highly
incriminated persons in the camp.

Ruhr Coal Discussions

While US and British officials in
Washington were discussing increase
in coal supplies from the Ruhr Valley
of Germany, a report from the Ruhr
area stated production reached
its highest point since the war on
16 August with a total of 239,527
metric tons that day.

A State Department spokesman
said the 16 August figure represented
a steady increase from 223,000 metric
tons produced 1 August. Daily pro-
duction, however, is still little more
than half of prewar output.

The spokesman attributed the
increase to the cumulative effort and
improved food conditions. Meanwhile
the conference named a new sub-
group to study the food problems of
miners. This group is in addition to
the groups studying mining equipment
and housing for miners.

Leipzig Fair Stamps
A special issue of postage stamps
for the autumn Leipzig Fair has been
authorized by ACA. Two. stamp
designs of 12 and 75 pfennig denomi-
nations are to be printed.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Industrial Index Higher

IHE PERCENTAGE increase in the

index of industrial production,
from 49 percent of the 1936 average
in June to 53 percent in July 1947, is
due rather to the longer month than
to greater actual daily output, the
Economics Division, OMGUS, said in
a report dealing with manufacturing
activity in the US Zone.

Except for those industries, such as
iron, steel and basic industries, which
operate around the clock, plants in
the US Zone worked 24 days in June
as against 27 in July, while daily out-
put by the average worker, an essen-
tial factor in the industrial picture,
has remained unchanged, the report
stated.

The heavy industries, mining, iron
and steel, vehicles, and stones and
earths, showed an improvement on a
production-per-working-day basis. US
Zone production of iron and steel in-
creased to a post-war peak by more
than a quarter to 58.5 percent of the
1936 average.

These industries are expected to
receive their full coal allocations
during the coming months, with still
further production gains in con-
sequence, the announcement said.
Occupation highs were also recorded
during July in the output of vehicles,
which gained 17 percent over June,
and stones and earths, which rose
15 percent. Sawmill output increased
5 percent and the July quota of ship-

ments to the United Kingdom and the
Netherlands, 70,000 cubic meters, was
met in full.

On the other hand, rate of output
of glass, cameras, and most consumer
goods, such as leather, paper and pulp,
and textiles, declined in July. Output
of ceramics, however, rose 17 percent
over June to 98 percent of the 1936
level. The arrival during July of long-
awaited decorating materials resulted
in concentrated efforts to decorate
existing stocks of household and dec-
orative porcelain, important items in
the export program.

HE MAJOR factor in manufacturing

activity in all groups continued to
be coal. Although mine production
increased, manufacturing benefited
only moderately because the top prior-
tiy groups, railroads, public utilities,
and military and domestic consumers,
are stockpiling substantial quantities
of coal for the winter. ‘

At present, transport is still a limit-
ing factor in distribution and during
the heavy movement of crops during
the fall, no improvement can be ex-
pected. Steady. and substantial im-
provement in the overall industrial
picture cannot be looked for until
the basic problems, the continuing
shortages of raw materials, labor, and,
above all, fuel and transport have been
solved.

Phone Service

Although a majority of the telegraph
offices maintained by the various US
commercial companies in the US Zone
of Germany have been transferred to
the German Deutsche Post for oper-
ation, all classes of messages, such as
“Expeditionary Forces Message” for-
merly offered to the occupational
forces are being continued.

Special types and deferred rate
telegraph messages to the United
States and all other countries at a
reduced cost to the sender are still
available to all US and Allied person-
nel in the US occupied area, it was
announced by the Communications

10

Branch of IA&C Division, OMGUS.
US commercial companies continue
to maintain offices in Berlin to provide
international service for US and Al-
lied personnel. All internal communi-
cations with Berlin are handled by the
Deutsche Post.

American telegraph companies for-
merly operated offices in 42 localities
within the US Zone. Since operations
have been turned over to German
control, numerous Deutsche Post
offices have been authorized to handle
Military Payment Certificates to pro-
vide convenient service to all points
for Allied personnel and ‘additional
offices are being established as the
demand arises.

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
HE APPROVAL by the Bipartite

Board, composed of the Military
Governors of the US and British Zones,
of the Transfer of Power Act for the
newly formed Bizorial Economic Coun-
cil, achieved a milestone on the road
to German economic recovery.

The first step on this long road was
taken in the Potsdam Agreement, when
the Occupying Powers agreed that
“during the period of occupation, Ger-
many shall be treated as a single
economic unit.” That was in August
1945. The next step was made a year
later when the Deputy Military Gover-
nors of the two zones met and formed
the Bipartite Board to effect an eco-
nomic fusion of the two zones. This
step was confirmed in December, 1946,
by the Bevin-Byrnes Agreement.

Shortly thereafter a Bipartite Secre-
tariat was set up and this was fol-
lowed by the formation of functional
agencies to execute the decisions of
the Board and implement its declared

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

policies. These agencies, six in number

-—Civil Service; Economics; Food and

Agriculture; Finance; Post, Telephone,
and Telegraph; and Transport—were
organized each with a Bipartite Panel
for policy decisions and technical

Official Terms
BIZONAL applies to German
agencies, personnel, and actions,

BIPARTITE refers to US-Brit-
ish personnel and actions.

advice, a Bipartite Control Group for
administration and control, and a Ger-
man Executive or Joint Committee for
day-to-day operation.

HE CONCRETE accomplishments
of these agencies were many in
the face of the devastation and eco-
nomic demoralization that gripped
Germany, but perhaps their most

11

Former Reichsbank building in Frank-
furt, which is the headquarters for
the Bizonal Organization. (Army Sig-
nal Corps photo)

significant work was that they paved
the way for the present Bizonal Organ-
ization. Had the agencies not shown
that the United States and Great Brit-
ain could get the cooperation of the
Germans in economic rehabilitation, it
is doubtful if the current program
would have been put into operation.
But at best the agencies as organized
were provisional bodies.

On 29 May 1947, following months
of discussion and planning, the Mili-
tary Governor of the US and British
Zones agreed that the time had come
to provide for elected, rather than
appointed, German agencies to take
on a greater share of responsibility
for the management of German eco-
nomic affairs. Based on that agreement,
on 16 July US MG's Proclamation 5

(Continued on page 14)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
BIZONAL OR

: BIPARTITE
BOARD

SECRE TAR PAY

ADVISORS
ae ECONOMICS COMMUNICATIONS
a FOOD: & AGRICULTURE FINANCE
| aioe? TRANSPORT CIVIL? SERVICE
'
‘ 1
4
’ LEGISLATION '
' REVIEW ‘aU Se sixes asad BIPARTITE '
' BOARD VETTING PARTY '
' (PROPOSED) ‘
, 1
, t
' S
CHAIRMAN - |
Cc

‘ BIPARTITE CON EROL OFFICE ee
. Represent Bipartite Board in administrative control of Executive Committee and, through it, the Bi t
§ Executive Directors under a broad delegation of authority; serve as channel of communication A
$ between Bipartite Board and Economic Council and subordinate agencies; coordinate and Ro erento
' direct functional branches of Bipartite Control Office; take final action on decision of bizonal He 4
i economic agencies when so authorized by Bipartite Board. T i
‘ t
' ‘
‘ GOVERNMENTAL # ADMINISTRATION 1
' AFFAIRS REPORTS & '
i ADVISORS - PUBLIC RELATIONS 1
' i
fee. 5 bs mit Cl ll tla Pall aded Se Se SYS SSS Sale mislcle slew eid ieing

SARTRE ROSE t

ECONOMICS eon TRANSPORT | COMMUNICATIONS FINANCE CIVIL SERVICE

BRANCH BRANCH BRANCH BRANCH BRANCH BRANCH
(PANEL) (PANEL) (PANEL) (PANEL) (PANEL) (PANEL)

Under direction of chairmen of Bipartite Control Office observe and report on operations of Executive Directors; furnish tech-
nical advice as appropriate.

Bee lg ne a oe mm "a atten 109.12 GOUPEMENMML quot socimoteciisboniivisesheow ieee

PCTS RATES ra me COMMAND CHANNEL
oo ee oe ee en ae ee ee FUNCTIONAL (CHANNEL

JOINT COMBINED
US-BRITISH GEA ‘US:BRITISH

--- Page 16 ---
ORGANIZATION

BIZONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL

(1) Directs the permissible economic reconstruction of the two Zones subject to
the approval of the Bipartite Board. i

(2) Adopts and promulgates ordinances, subject to the approval of the Bipartite

Board, on those economic functions previously delegated to the Bizonal

Executive/Joint Committees, orin the future delegated to the Economic Council.

7 (3) Adopts and promulgates, subject to the approval of the Bipartite Board, or-

dinances allocating to the Economic Council, the Executive Committee, or the

Executive Directors, the power fo issue implementing regulations under specific

existing legislation which is within the fields referred to in Para. (2) above.

(4) Delegates such of its powers as may be deemed appropriate to the Executive

Committee, except for the power to adopt and promulgate ordinances set

forth in Pora, (2) above and the power of appointment set forth in Para, (5)

re below.
et (5) Appoints from nominations made by the Executive Committee, and removes,

upon its own, motion, the Executive Directors. Defines the functions of the

‘ Executive Directors and their relations to the Economic Council, the Executive
‘ Committee and the Laender.
' (6) Considers and passes the annual estimates of revenue and expenditure of the
; Council and of its departments.
1
1
a's ‘
t ‘

SSNS 2 > Sto ieuanen eieanie ene mpesiG, mit = tyeuctnne!

hh (

r t }

 #(« “DPERATIONAL CONTROL

2 ecraunthaee

| f

4 ‘

(«tl
i]

a BIZONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

' (1) As a full-time coordinating and executive body, proposes and makes re-
I commendations on ordinances for adoption by the Economic Council.
' (2) Issues implementing regulations within the scope of the authority delegated

isin to the Executive Committee by the Economic Council. ‘

ee ' (3) Coordinates and supervises the execution of ordinances and implementing

; a tegulations by the Executive Directors, in accordance with the policies adopt-
ed by the Economic Council.

IL SERVI

RANCH

PANEL)

furnish t

- een awe TBO ewe Tee ee eee ee ee

| EXECUTIVE DIREC7 ORS

Under Military. Government delegation to German a: i i i
f : n ) gencies of maximum ii i i
ee a dolices Gisied oe responsibility for conduct of bizonal functions

th ¢ Council and und isi i i i
| Speridion of ther texpecive Gen ler supervision of Executive Committee, direct

ts; issue implementing regulations as authorized,

FOOD &

ECONOMIC AGRICULTURE TRANSPORT COMMUNICATIONS FINANCE CIVIL SERVICE

--- Page 17 ---
(Continued from page 11)
Bizonal Organization

and British MG's Ordinance 8& were
issued, setting up the framework for
the Bizonal Organization.

HE STRUCTURE is an interesting
one, without exact parallel in
any other democratic organization in
the world. It consists of an Economic
Council, and Executive Committee,
and five departments each headed by
an Executive Director. The Council is
selected by the Landtage: “one mem-
ber for each 750,000 population or part
thereof in excess of 375,000, but not
less than one per Land; in proportion
to the division of political opinion in
the Land as shown by popular vote in
the most recent Land-wide elections.”
At present the Council number 52.
The Executive Committee is made
up of eight members appointed by the
Land Governments. The Executive
Directors are nominated by the Exe-
cutive Committee, which supervises
their activities, but their appointment
or removal from office is controlled

by the Council. This has given rise to
some “political” jockeying, since the
CDU has a thin majority in the Coun-
cil, while the other major party, the
SPD, has a 6—2 margin in the Exe-
cutive Committee. As a result, the
five Executive Directors who head the
departments were originally all CDU
members, reflecting the party com-
position of the Council, rather than
the political complexion of the Exe-
cutive Committee. Much has been
made of this anomaly in the German
Press, but it is probably fairer to
regard it as a symptom of growing
pains which will pass away when the
Bizonal Organization actually is gath-
ered in Frankfurt and gets to work.

OVING TO Frankfurt is in itself

a difficult task. The former
banking capital of Germany offers
many advantages; it is a rail and
communications center; it has a tra-
dition as an economic headquarters
and it is approximately in the middle
of the two zones. These were con-

trolling factors in its selection. But
Frankfurt is crowded; housing, labor,

‘Army

and building materials have all been
scarce, and the question of moving in
some 4,500 German workers for the
Bizonal Organization, plus their fa-
milies, plus approximately 850 Bipar-
tite personnel with their dependents,
is a serious one.

Headquarters Command, EUCOM,
charged with the responsibility of
providing office space and housing,
brought labor and materials from
projects throughout the US
Zone. It made available one Ameri-
can meal a day together with work
shoes and clothing. In conjunction
with the chief mayor and his staff, it
surveyed the entire Frankfurt area,
including Hoechst and Bad Homburg.
And by 9 August, little more than a
month after the first plenary session
of the Executive Committee and the
Economic Council, the first of the field
agencies — Food and Agriculture —
had begun to move its offices and
personnel from Stuttgart to the new
headquarters. Economics from Minden
and Transport from Bielefeld are
expected to be settled in Frankfurt by
early autumn.

Once the entire organization, with
its Bizonal and Bipartite components
is consolidated in Frankfurt, its oper-
ation in broad outline will be com-
paratively simple, although, of course,
in detail it will be as complex as com-
mercial and economic life is anywhere.

HE ECONOMIC Council has the
power:

“(1) To direct the permissible eco-
nomic reconstruction of the Zones
subject to approval by the Bipartite
Board.

“(2) To adopt and promulgate ordi-
nances on the administration of rail-
ways, maritime ports and coastal ship-
ping, inland water transport, inter-
Land inland waterways and commu-
nications and postal services; to adopt
and promulgate ordinances dealing
with matters of general policy affect-
ing more than one Land with respect
to inter-Land highways and highway
transport; production, allocation and
distribution of goods, raw materials,
gas, water and electricity; foreign and
internal trade; price formation and
price control; production, importation,

Mayor Walter Kolb of Frankfurt pre-
senting shoes and work clothes to
German construction workers to speed
repairs in Frankfurt for housing the
Bizonal Organization personnel. (Army
Signal Corps photo)

--- Page 18 ---
collection, allocation and distribution
of food; public finance, currency, cred-
it, banking and property control; and
civil service management of bizonal
department personnel; and such other
functions as may from time to time be
determined by the Bipartite Board.
Such ordinances are subject to ap-
proval by the Bipartite Board. °

“(3) To adopt and promulgate, sub-
ject to approval.... ordinances allo-
cating to the Economic Council, the
Executive Committee or the Executive
Directors to issue implementing regu-
lations under specific existing legis-
lation....

“(4) To delegate such of its powers
as may be deemed appropriate to the
Executive Committee except the
power to promulgate ordinances....
and the power of appointment....

“(5) To appoint, from nominations
made by the Executive Committee,
and remove, upon its own motion, the
Executive Directors. To define the
functions of the Executive Directors
and their relations to the Economic
Council, the Executive Committee and
the Laender.

“(6) To consider and pass the an-
nual estimates of revenue and expend-
iture of the Council and of its de-
partments.”

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

View of the first working meeting of the Bizonal Economic Council in the Stock
Exchange hall in Frankfurt. The principal speakers were the British and American
Military Governors, Air Marshal Sir Sholto Douglas and Gen. Lucius D, Clay. (Army

Signal Corps photo.)

(O EXERCISE these broad powers,

the Council meets in plenary ses-
sion once a month, usually for three
or four days. In the interim, its own
committees are active in the field gath-
ering information and working up
reports on all the matters assigned to
it by Proclamation 5 and Ordinance 88.
So far, in addition to adopting a pro-
visional set of Rules and Procedure,
which will be reconsidered in October,
the Council has selected the Executive
Directors and passed a Transfer of
Powers law, giving the directors con-
trol over their departments-and abo-
lishing the current administration of
the agencies.

The Executive Committee, which is
empowered to “propose and make re-
commendations on ordinances
issue implementing regulations....
and “coordinate and supervise the
execution of ordinances and imple-
menting regulations by the Executive
Directors,” remains in continuous ses-
sion. And, naturally, the department
heads stay on the job, too.

15

HE PRESIDENT of the Council is

Dr. Erich Koehler of Wiesbaden.
A lawyer by training. Dr. Koehler is
also head of the Chamber of Com-
merce, a founder of the CDU in Great-
er Hesse and vice-Chairman of the
CDU party in that Land.

Another lawyer from Hesse, Ludwig
Metzger, former mayor of Darmstadt,
heads the Executive Committee. The
Executive Directors are: Dr. Johannes
Semler of Bavaria, former head of an
accounting firm, member of the Con-
stitutional Assembly (Economics); Dr.
Albrecht Hartmann, former chief of
the Budget Department of the Bavar-
ian Finance Ministry (Finance); Dr.
Hans Schlange-Schoeningen from Ham-
burg, deputy chairman of the German
Executive Joint Committee for Food
and Agriculture (Food and Agri-
culture); Dr. Hans Schubert of Bavaria,
former head of Posts in that Land,
(Communications); Dr. Edmund Frohne,
former minister of Transport for
Lower Saxony (Transport).

These, then, are the principal Ger-
man figures in the Bizonal Organ-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
ization. Their powers and those of
their colleagues are broad, offering
ample scope for German initiative, but
advisory powers remain with the Bi-
partite organization at every level. In
the departments themselves, the Bi-
partite personnel assist the Germans on
day-to-day matters of advice, obser-
vation, reporting, and liaison. The
Bizonal departments will be in their
own buildings, scattered throughout
the Frankfurt area — including
Hoechst, Bad Homburg, and Offen-
bach — while the bipartite panels will
be concentrated in their own offices,
in the heart of Frankfurt, in the Alli-
anz and Reichsbank buildings.

OP POLICY control remains witl

the Bipartite Board in Berlin, of
course but liaison between the Board
and the. Economic Council is main-
tained through the Bipartite Control
Office, which is also empowered to
make policy decisions on all but the
highest levels, This Control Office is
headed for the US Element by Mr. C.
L. Adcock, former Assistant Deputy
Military Governor for Operations. and
Deputy to the Commanding General,
OMGUS. Mr. Adcock retired last fall
from active duty in the Regular Army
with the rank of major general. His
British counterpart is Lt. Gen. Sir Gor-
don Neville Macready, formerly re-
gional commissioner for Land Lower
Saxony.

The chairman and the staffs of the
Bipartite Control Office, likewise,
exercise their control through advice
and suggestion rather than direct
order, They bear in mind and keep
alive in the minds of the Bizonal Or-
ganization the words which General
Clay addressed to the Economic Coun-
cil on the occasion of its second
plenary session. He said:

“There is no easy road ahead, and
the way to a reasonable standard of
living cannot be traversed overnight.
Physical incentives cannot for the
moment be substantial, and your
people must, in the face of limited
food and even more limited consumer
goods, work with the realization that
only through work can these incen-
tives be obtained.

“Sound export programs will devel-
op credit. When the economic
machine is once in gear and moving
it will gain momentum and your way

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

of life will become easier. There must
be the will to give the momentum
and hope to prevent despair. You
must have the will and the hope...

“The firm growth of democracy and
the development of a reasonable
standard go hand in hand, Neither
can be sacrificed for the other. Just
as you have in your hands the eco-
nomic future of forty-two million Ger-
mans, so do you have in your hands
the exercise of your economic powers
in a democratic way for the benefit
of your people as a whole.”

Germans Restricted
On Military Trains

ERMAN personnel are prohibited
G under OMGUS directive AG
200.4 (TD) “Travel Authorization for
German Personnel,” of 28 July from
boarding or riding all military trains
and military coaches in German
civilian trains unless they possess
competent travel orders issued by
OMGUS, a Land OMG, or a military
headquarters,

Letters and all other documents
addressed to “To Whom It May
Concern” or to train commanders by
any unit, detachment, office, or
organization claiming to authorize
travel, will be forfeited by the person
presenting such letters or documents.
These will be forwarded to the Adju-
tant General, OMGUS, for a appro-
priate action.

Travel orders must contain the
following essentials: The full name of
the person for whom travel is
authorized; the Kennkarte number; a
statement that clearance has been
obtained in accordance with EUCOM
Circular “No. 13, dated 4 April 1947;
and a statement directing the in-
dividual, if he is bound for Berlin,
to report upon arrival in Berlin to the
Indigenous Personnel Office, Tele-
funken.

Travel orders covering movement
to and from Berlin must include five
copies in Russian.

German personnel are prohibited
from the possession of Military rail-
road tickets purchased with Military
Payment Certificates.

16

Trade Group Criticized

The US-licensed Der Tagesspiegel
criticized the Free German Trade
Unions organization in Berlin for its
handling of the current strikes.

Citing recent strikes in transport
firms, the paper observed that the
strikes were held because the employ-
ers did not want to accept the FDGB
drafted contracts calling for coopera-
tive rights of the laborers. The
paper stated that the trade unions have
the right to submit these proposals to
the employers but they should not
become one-sided dictation.

The paper said that the owners will,
of course, check the proposals and
make the greatest efforts to meet the
desires of the workers.

“However,” claimed the paper, “the
way taken by the Communist FDGB
... 4s one-sided dictation and does not
correspond to democratic principles.”

The paper accused the FDGB of
following the example of the National
Socialist workers front by drafting
contracts and demanding their accept-
ance, “All detailed negotiations are
rejected and the employer faces the
alternative either to sign the contract
or to face boycott by the trade
unions,” said the paper.

Myth in Making

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) commenting on “the Myth of the
Twentieth of July,” pointed to the
reasons for the failure of the 1944
attempt on the life of Hitler:

“If the Twentieth of July had any
value it is mainly for the fact that it
showed the fatal consequences of the
lack of a genuine political idea or its
nihilistic disregard... Judging it this
way it confuses still more the present
conceptions of guilt and atonement
which already appear to be too ortho-
dox-theological. Only our present. and
future attitude can truly exonerate us.

“In view of these facts and con-

- clusions the all too positive inter-

pretations of the Twentieth of July
appear suspiciously like the formation
of a myth. They assume the character
of a political assurance for the sur-
vivors of the unsuccessful enterprise,
whose future respect will, it is to be
hoped, be rejected by the German in-
stinct of self-preservation.”

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 20 ---
[GERMAN REACTIONS |

Survey on Movies

The Frankfurter Neue Presse
published a selection of solicited
letters-to-the-editor on the question
what kind of movies the German
public wants. While the paper ad-
mitted that the number of letters
received was too small to permit
statistical use, it found, nevertheless,
certain generalizations justified.

"It is certain that the entertaining
film is given preference over the
documentary, in most cases, however,
conditional on artistic quality. "Not a
calling to account but a contribution
to the conquest of mental distress’ —
so one of the letter writers formulates
his opinion...

"The sufferings of the day seem
still to lie too heavy on people: so
that they are not ready for discussions
of the great questions of our time or
the most recent past. But the time for
that will surely come, just as it came
after the last world war with a time
lag of 10 years."

The letters that the newspaper
published demand pictures in German
language, modern French pictures,
and "pictures that have really some-
thing to say to us." The newspaper
added: "Many (of us) can't warm up
to average American films because
from our conception of life they
simply seem to play in a vacuum.”

Conflict in CSU

The Passauer Neue Presse enumer-
ated many instances of conflict in the
Christian Social Union and declares:

“If the party consists only of wings
. . the situation becomes intolerable
for Bavaria. It is certain that the
CDU has not found the synthesis that
would entitle her to leadership in
Bavaria. The generous plan of build-
ing a refugee village (in Neuheim at
the Roemerweg) was choked off and
now suddenly has become a question
of party-political prestige. That never
should have happened.

“It is easy to nullify projects, but it
will be hard to help refugees and the
people in their need with party fan-
fares. The situation is really simple

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

“Only for Americans”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung voiced
a complaint about the many signs
saying ‘For Germans Forbidden’
that have recently appeared in
Stuttgart.

“One of our readers questions
if such a sign serves to encourage
the people or perhaps the cause

could only have been Germans
who ordered this particular word-
ing because the desire to forbid
lies in their very blood...

“Certainly the words into which
this prohibition was cast, were
poorly selected. Why not a sign
‘Only for Americans’? That
sounds quite different."

enough: If the refugee question can-
not be solved organically and by
working together, then it will some
day be solved by collectivism. Then
the ‘property citizeris' can thank their
representatives for losing their necks.
But then it will be too late.”

Reply to Niemoeller

In the Giessener Freie Presse Ludwig
Lewy said the German press has kept
silent about Pastor Niemoeller "in
order to spare a man who after all
had sat in one of Hitler's concen-
tration camps.” But now, Niemoeller's
blast against the licensed press
furnished occasion to delve into Nie-
moeller's past. Lewy accused Nie-
moeller of membership (in 1919 and
later) in one "legal" and one clearly
illegal military underground organi-
zation of the "Freikorps" type.

"The republic continued to show
magnanimity while one of her de-
fenders after the other was murdered
by Navy Lieut. Niemoeller's comrades
in the various illegal organizations.
The crime that cost the life of foreign
minister Rathenau elicited from Nie-
moeller no other reaction than the
dry comment: ‘A great political explo-
sion, the Rathenau murder.’

17

of democracy and he thinks it -

“We do not believe that this time
he will accuse the press—or—of
spreading untruths, because the pre-
ceding quotes and testimony are
taken from a book that bears the
title ‘From Submarine to Pulpit’. Its
author's name is Niemoeller."

Economic Council

The Wiesbadener Kurier found that
the Christian Democrat Union not
only has become sole government
party in the Economic Council in
Frankfurt, but has become identified
by selecting Semler and Schlange-
Schoeningen, with its own right wing.
(Note article on bizonal organi-
zation). The Kurier said:

“The CDU must ask itself if its
selection was not a mistake, not only
because a compromise with the ad-
herents of planned economy has
become impossible, but because per-
haps its own left wing will draw
conclusions which in Bavaria have al-
ready becoming quite evident...

“Or do the CDU members of the
Economic Council regard the splitting-
up of Germany between East and
West as an irrevocable fact? Do they
believe that the economic reconstruc-
tion of the western zones can be
hoped for only with dollar sup-
port?... Then perhaps one would

-have to conclude that the CDU has

chosen a favorable moment for its
start.”

Weimar Constitution

The Hochlandbote (Garmisch-Par-
tenkirchen) commemorated the 28th
anniversary of the Weimar Constitu-
tion in a brief editorial:

“The younger generation does not
know what this August 11 once meant
for the German people and to what
importance it might have risen:
11 August 1919, the birthday of the
Weimar Constitution, the freest con-
stitution of the world! The great de-
mocracies of the world celebrate the
anniversary of their constitution as
the biggest holiday of the year.

“We in Germany permitted reac-
tionary persons under the leadership

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
of Hugenberg and Papen to pour :

buckets of filth and suspicion on the
constitution and its servants. We per-
mitted Hindenburg to betray and sell
out the constitution to which he had
sworn allegiance for the mess of
potage of some shabby millions. We
could not bear the freest constitution
of the world.

“For that we had to get along with-
out any constitution, but with a
‘Fuehrer’ August 11 is a thing of
the past.” .

Lack of Initiative

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung com-
plained about lack of German initi-
ative, urging the German people to
adjust themselves to European thought
and action:

“The German people, especially
German youth who are partly scepti-
cal, embittered, and hopeless, must be
lifted out of this pool of apathy, re-
jection, and despair. They must learn
to think and act along European lines.
This is the task of the governments,
parliaments, politicians, trade unions,
in short of all people qualified to
arouse European feeling and thinking
in Germany and to guide the German
people into a future which guarantees
us salvation from spiritual and physi-
cal distress.

“Such a European-thinking people
will be able to survive the tensions
resulting from the struggle for Euro-
pean unity. It will then also be in a
position to value the various Paris
Conferences lying behind and ahead
of us in a way in which they must be
judged, viz. as the birth of a federation
of all European states on the basis of
genuine democracy.”

British Situation

The political editor Horst Fluegge
in Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
raised the question if British foreign
policy “still has a long range and a
British point of view.’ He wrote:

“If the Laborer Government wants
to win the fight for Britain's existence

. it will have to return soon to a-

policy of “more socialism and more
democracy.” Without this return to
the essentials of the Labor program
the Conservatives must gain in influ-
ence...and without it there cannot be
that independence that must remain
the basis for Great Britain's policy.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung, writing on
‘the British Situation, said: “We must
distinguish between policies of the
British Government and practices of
Military Government. We want to
remind the quickly discouraged that

Squelching Rumors Told by Germans

In squelching rumors that German
butter is being sent to England, the
Soviet-licensed CDU organ, Neue Zeit
(Berlin) advised it has
successfully to track down any facts
behind such claims, It said it learned
that “nowhere in the British occu-
pation zone are butter packages sent
to England.”

“There are no margarine factories
nor any other fat producing factories
which produce fats for export," con-
tinued the paper, “It was furthermore
declared that in the past 18 months
no food at all has been exported from
the British zone to England or to
any other country. Nor is it intend-
ed to send German food to any
country in the near future.

"The English have declared that
they have never met a man who has
seen butter being loaded into ships
or trains, nor have they met anyone
who saw this butter unloaded and

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

tried un-.

sold in shops. All German press
representatives are free to go to the
factories and ports to learn whether
these rumors are true or not."

The paper said that no sooner had
it received this information than a
man came to the office and said that
he had seen at an airfield near Senne-
lager fruit and vegetables being flown
to England every day.

“Here another alarming report: the
Westphalia Zeitung has reported that
according to news arriving in Ham-
burg the Russians plan to cut down
completely the Thuringian woods and
the Harz woods," declared the paper.
“This rumor is also an example that
there are certain rumors which cannot
be quieted down although they are
silly lies. These lies come up in all
zones... Although it is almost im-
possible to find the initiators of these
rumors one should at least try to
disprove them."

18

England was first to support the re-
construction of German economy and
to demand, already at the time of
Potsdam, an 11,000,000 tons steel pro-
duction for German industry. England
realized that a low German living
standard would depress her own..’

The article praises the liberation of
India as a “world historical decision,"
“a hopeful sign of the introduction of
civilized methods into politics.”

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg) expressed admiration for
the “astonishing realism" of British
Prime Minister Attlee in not counting
on further American loans and on his
“clear grasp of the situation” shown
in demanding “heavy and unpopular
sacrifices" from the English people.

Ruhr Conference

The Schwaebische Donau Zeitung
(Ulm) defined its point of view re-
garding the Ruhr coal conference in
Washington as follows: “As much
Ruhr coal, as much Ruhr steel, as
much Ruhr chemistry as possible, for
the world and. for Germany, under
German responsibility and under
world control.

“It is true that if this world fails,
if its unity dissolves in spite of the
Security Council and peace organi-
zations, then Ruhr steel and Ruhr
chemical products may become a war
potential.”

Reconstruction First

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) commented on the
Military Governor's recommendation
to put reconstruction first, political
questions second as follows:

“Most Germans will welcome Gen-
eral Clay's word. But the advocates
of consistent political ideologies who
fight for immediate realization of their
ideas will reject it... . In fact, how-
ever, the situation of Germany—that
alone must dictate to us the rule
according to which we have to act—
justifies General Clay's.point of view.
That rule clearly is: Reconstruction
first!"

The article went on to warn that:
“However urgent is the reconstruc-
tion of Germany, it is continually
endangered by political laziness and
irresolution in regard to the enemies
of reconstruction.”

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 22 ---
BOOKS AT OMGUS REFERENCE LIBRARY

PN6122
S1

HF5361
Si9

D425
S2

LA226
s2

Ref.
DK402.5
$2

DS1i1

$2

Ref.
JX1982.A1
s2
BRS563.G3
S24

DD253
s2
DD253
$21

HB3711
$24

D619
$2

Ref,

D610

$27
HD2356.R9
S2

HF5549
S82

HB75
$3

PR1109
S45
PR2759
S45

DD354
S41
JX1395
S4
JF107
S45
HB195
S56

Ref.
PE1580
S56
HV7965
S63

Sarett, L. (ed), Modern Speeches
on Basic Issues; compiled and
edited by L. Sarett and W.T.
Foster (1939)

Saunders, A. G., Business Reports;
investigation and presentation
(1940)

Schapiro, J. S., Modern and Con-
temporary European History,
1815—1945 "(1946)

Schilpp, P. A. (ed.), Higher Edu-
cation Faces the Future; a
symposium on college and uni-
versity education in the United
States of America (1930)

Schmitt, B. E. (ed.), Poland (1945)

Schmitt, B. E., Triple Alliance and
Tnple Entente (cl934)

Schnapper, M. B, (ed.), United
Nations Agreements (c1944)
Schneider, C. EB. The German

Church on the American Fron-
tier; a study in the rise of
religion among the Germans of
the West; based on the history
of the Evangelischer Kirchen-
verein des Westens (Evangelical
church society of the West)
184U—1866 (1939)

Schult, S., Germany will Try It
Again (1944)

Schuman, F.L., The Nazi Dicta-
torship; a study in social pa-
thology. and the politics of
Fascism (1936)

Schumpeter, J, A., Business Cycles;
a theoretical, historical, and
statistical analysis of the capi-
talist process (1939)

Scott, J. B., A. Survey of Inter-
national Relations between the
United States and Germany;
August 1,1914 — April 6, 1917;
based on official documents
(1917)

Scott, J. B. (ed.), Diplomatic Docu-
ments Relating to the Outbreak
of the European War (1916)

Scott, J., Behind the Urals; an
American worker in Russia's
city of steel (c1942)

Scott, W. D., Personnel Manage-
ment; principles, practices, and
point of view (1941)

Seligman, E, R. A., Principles of
Economics; with special reieience
to American conditions (1909)

Shafer, R., From Beowulf to
Thomas Hardy (c1939, 1940)

Shakespeare, W., Twenty-three
Plays and the Sonnets; with
general introduction, special
introduction for each play, and
notes; by Th. M. Parrott (c1938)

Shanahan, W. O., Prussian Military
Reforms, 1786—1813 (1945)

Sharp, W. R., Contemporary Inter-
national Politics (c1940)

Shotwell, J. T., Governments of
Continental Europe (c1940)

Silberner, E., The Problem of
War in Nineteenth Century
Economic Thought (1946)

Skeat, W. W., A Concise Etymo-
logical Dictionary of the English
Language (1887)

Smith, B., Rural Crime Control
(1933)

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

HG3903
s7
HD82
S88

DD90
$83
D643
S88
Di18
S838
HC285
S38

CT782
888
JC321
S88

#HD9000.6
S88

D639.S 9
S83

HF3029
T7
DA30
T76
D827
U66

PN6014
U66

Ref.
IX232
UBiL
PF3683
U662

D829.J1
U8

JX232
U664

Ref.
Z1002
U66
Ref.
HC286.6
U65

Southard, F. A., Foreign Exchange
Practice and Policy (1940)

Staley, E., World Economy in
Transition; technology vs. poli-
tics, laissez faire vs. planning,
power vs. welfare (c1939)

Steinberg, S. H., A Short History
of Germany (1945)

Stephens, W. E,. Revisions of the
Treaty of Versailles (1939)

Stephenson, C., Mediaeval History
(c1943)

Stolper, G., German Economy
1870—1940; ‘issues and trends

| (1940)

‘Strachey L., Eminent Victorians
(1929)

Strauss-Hupé, R., Geopolitics; the
struggle for space and power
(c1942)

Struve, P. B., Food Supply in
Russia during the World War;
under the general direction of
P, B. Struve .., Organization
and policy, by K. I, Zaitsev ...
and N. V. Dolinsky ... Food
prices and the market in food-

stuffs, by §S. S, Demosthenov
(1930)
Struve, P. B., Food Supply in

Russia during the World War;
under the general direction of
P. B. Struve, by K. I. Zaitsev,
N. V. Dolinsky, S. S. Demosthe-
nev (1930)

Tansill, C. C., America Goes to
War (1938)

Taussig, F. W., Principles of Eco-
nomics (1911)

Tell, R., Nazi Guide to Nazism
(1942)

Thornton, R. H., An American
Glossary; being an attempt to
illustrate certain Americanisms
upon historical principles (1912)

Tolischus, O, D., - They Wanted
War (1940)

Tosdal, H. R., Problems in Export
Sales Management (c1922)

Trevelyan, G. M., A Shortened
History of England (1944)

Universities Committee on Post-
war International Problems.
Final report on the work of
the Committee 19421945, by
R. B. Perry, chairman (1945)

Untermeyer, L. (ed.), Modern
American Poetry; modern British
Poetry; a critical anthology (1942)

US, Treaties, etc., Treaties and
other international acts of the
United States of America (1931)

U.S.Army Glossary of German ad-
ministrative and political ter-
minology, for use by officers
and officials of the American
Forces of Occupation. ,

U.S, Education Mission to Japan.
Report submitted to the supreme
commander for the Allied powers
(30 March 1946)

U.S. Dept. of State, A report on
the International control of
atomic energy (1946)

U.S, Library of Congress.
graphical sources for
countries (1945)

U.S. Office of Military Govern-
ment for Germany. A Year of
Potsdam; the German economy
since the surrender (1945)

Bio-
foreign

19

Key to List

Books of value in presenting
a better understanding of inter-
national and local affairs are
constantly being added to the
OMGUS Reterence Library,
located in Room 3002, Director
Building, Hq OMGUS, Berlin. A
list of recent acquisitions has
been prepared by the Chief Li-
brarian. The fourth and last in a
series repeating this is printed on
this page.

The books are arranged in
alphabetical order of authors or
titles with the date of publi-
cation, The number at the left is,
the key to its filing in the
library. Those marked “Ket”
cannot be taken from the library.
The letter at the start of the top
number indicates the subject
matter, The key to these num-
bers follows:

A—General Works
B—Philosophy and Religion
C—History and Auxiary Sciences
D—nistory (except America)
E—America -
F—America

G—Gevyraphy and Anthropology
H—Social Sciences
J—Political Science
K—Law

L—taucation

M—Music

N—Fine Arts

P—Language and Literature
Q—Science

R—Medicine

S—Agriculture
T—Technology

U—Military Science
V—Naval Science
Z—Bibliography

Ref. U.S. Office of Military Government
HA1231 for Germany. Statistical Hand-
U8 book of Germany (1946)
Ref. U.S. War Dept. A digest of
UB500.4 opinions of the Judge Advocates
us General of the Army (1917—1940)
Ref. Van Doren, M. (ed.), The Ox-
PS645 ford Book of American Prose
D7 (1932
Git Van Valkenburg, S., Elements of
vi Political Geography; —_carto-
graphy by F.C. Erickson (1944)
G126 Van Valkenburg, S., Europe (1935)
vi
Ref. Vizetelly, F.H., A Desk-Book of
PE1460 Idioms and Idiomatic Phrases in
vs English Speech and Literature

(c1923)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
HV7921 Vollmer, A., Crime and the State

v7 Police (1935)
PS1331 ‘Wagenknecht, E., Mark Twain; the
wi man and his work (1935)

NC997 Wallace, C. E., Commercial Art
wi (1930)

CBS7 Wallbank, T, W., Civilization;
wi past and present (ci944)

LA25 Walsh, J.J., Education; how old
wi the new (1910)

Ps92 Ward, A. C., American Literature
wi 1880—1930 (1932)

PN4781 Warren, C., Modern News report-
WL ing (c1934)

Ref. Webel, A., A German-English
T9 Technical and Scientific Dic-
w3 tionary (1945)

Ref. Webster's Dictionary of Syn-

PE1591 onyms ... a dictionary of dis-

w32 criminated synonyms with ant-
onyms and analogous and
contrasted words (c1942)

HV8143- Weckler, J. T., The Police and

w3 Minority Groups; a program to
prevent disorder and to im-
prove relations between differ-
ent racial, religious, and national
groups (1944)

DAs Welles, S., The Time for Decision

W36 (c1944)

D753 Welles, S., The World of the

w3 Four Freedoms (1943)

PS85 Wendell, B., A. Literary History

w3 of America (1909)

DC392 Werth, A., France in Ferment

w3 (1935)

Ref. West, W. M. (ed.J, A Source

E178.1 Book in American History to

w3 1787 (1913)

HD21 Withbeck, R. H., Economic Geo-

was graphy; a regional survey
(1941)

E457 Whitlock, B., Abraham Lincoln

was (1930)

DK288 White, W. L., Report on the

was Russians (c1945)

HC101 Wile, F. W. (ed), A Century of

ws Industrial Progress (1928)

F2208 Williams, M. W., The People and

ws Politics of Latin America (c1938)

E168 Wilson, C. M., Roots of America;

ws a travelogue of American per-
sonalities (1936)

HV8143_ Wilson, O, W., Police Records,

Ws their Installation and Use (1942)

E312 Woodward, Ww. E., George

w7 Washington;. the image and the
man (1928)

GR105 Wright, L. B, (ed.), The American

wie Tradition; national characteris-
tics, past and present (1943)

JX1952 Wriston, H. M., Strategy of Peace

wW76 (1944)

HBI71 Young, A. A., Economic Problems

Y7 New and Old (1927)

Orders Boom for Hops
Orders valued at more than

$1,000,000 for the Bavarian crops
were placed within a week after
announcement of prices for the 1947
crops, contract may be negotiated
directly with German hops dealers.
Names and adresses of dealers can
be obtained from the Brauwirtschafts-
verband Bayern, Munich 2, Seidl-
strasse 7; or JEIA, US/UK, OMG
Bavaria APO 407, cable adress BAVEX.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Change No. 23 to Title 23, Military
Government Legislation, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 9 June 1947. Gives list of
superseded and reprinted legislation.
Text of MGR Change No 23 issued
same date.

Change 24 to Title 23, Military Gov-
ernment Legislation, AG 014.12, OM-
GUS, 3 July 1947. Lists additions ‘to
Title 23. Text of Change 24 issued
same date.

Signal Technical Circular No. 14,
Maintenance of Telegraph Printer
Equipment, Hq EUCOM, 5 August
1947, ©

Fiscal Station Code, AG 130 BFD-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 7 August 1947.
Amends USFET letter, AG 130 FDD-
AGO, 30 December 1946, and lists

four Fiscal Stations that have been -

inactivated.

Operating Agencies and Assigned
EUCOM Code Numbers, AG 130 BFD-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 7 August 1947.
Assigns code number for Budget and
Fiscal Director, European Command.

Circular No, 65, Hq EUCOM,
8 August 1947. Section I, Mail Ship-
ments to the US; Section II, Table of
Clothing and Equipment Allowances
for European Command; Section III,
Table of Clothing and Equipment
Allowances for Issue to Enlisted
Women in the European Command.

Arrangements for French Speakers
Before Military Groups, AG 353 TIE-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 8 August 1947.
Discontinues US program for lack
of maintenance funds but notes that
French Government has established
a special section to provide speakers
for military groups in the US Zone.

Status of Chemical Corps Supply,
AG 400 CML-AGO, Hq EUCOM
8 August 1947.

Recruiting Publicity, AG 340 GPA-
AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 8 August 1947.
Concerns the collection and forward-

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

20

ing of suitable material through PID
channels of EUCOM Hq.

Luxembourg Week-end Tour, AG
200.4 SSP - AGO, Hq EUCOM,
11 August 1947. Concerns a weekly
three-day tour from Frankfurt.

USAFE Regulation No. 55-28, Clear-
ance of Aircraft to Foreign Countries,
Hq USAFE, 11 August 1947. Outlines
requirements, prerequisites and pro-
cedures for clearance of USAFE air-
craft into, over or within foreign
spheres of influence.

Civilian Groups, AG 230 GPA-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 11 August 1947, Gives
substitutions for EUCOM letter AG
230 GAP-AGE, 1 April 1947.

Emergency Return of Military Per-
sonnel to the Zone of Interior, AG
210.711 GPA-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM,
12 August 1947, Gives substitutions
for EUCOM letter, 25 July 1947.

Arrest and Detention — Germany,
AG 253 GCA-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
12 August 1947. Cites amendment to
USFET letter, AG 250.3 GEC-AGO,
2 February 1947,

Circular No. 66, Hq EUCOM,
14 August 1947. Section J, Company
and Separate Unit Post Offices; Sec-
tion II, Table of Clothing and Equip-
ment Allowances for the European
Command; Section III, Firearms in
Billets and Quarters.

Circular No. 67, Hq EUCOM,
15 August 1947. Section I, Assistance
from US Military Sources to Civilian
Agencies and Personnel; Section Iq,
Fitting of Clothing; Section III, Indi-
vidual Transportation in the European

Command; Section IV, Control of
Venerial Disease.
Circular No. 68, Hq EUCOM,

15 August 1947, Use of US Govern-
ment Motor Transportation Rented
by Individuals, Organizations or
Agencies. Gives the correct rental
tates.

Distribution of Directorate Docu-
ments to War Department and Euro-
pean Command, AG 010.6 (SG), OM-
GUS, 18 August 1947. Cites the cor-
rect distribution and addressing of
documents.

Audit of Nonappropriated Funds,
AG 130 GSP-AGO Hq EUCOM,
18 August 1947. Refers to information
required by 25 August 1947,

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 24 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Lucius D. Clay
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Wuerttemberg-Baden

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 154)

Brig Gen Cornelius E Ryan

_Asst. to Deputy Mil Gov

Mr Sumner Sewall

Hq ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Mr Sumner Sewall
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart 1st Lt H McCallion
Wuerttemberg Area
*LK Aalen Aalen Maj C A Pallette
“LK Backnang Backnang Capt R Forrest
“LK Boeblingen Boeblingen Capt M P Emst
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim Capt R C Lawton
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko Jr
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Lt Col A G Spitz
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Maj L H Kyle
*SK/LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Lt Col CH J West
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt T E Griswold
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt S P Giunta
“LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Capt E P Oja
“LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt B V Bloom
*LK Nuertigen Nuertingen Maj J F Capell
*LK Oehringen Oehringen Capt G H Caple
*LK Schwaebisch-Gmuend Schwaebisch-Gmuend Maj R Lascoe
*LK Schwaebisch-Hall Schwaebisch-Hall Maj S A Warren
“SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col I L Harlow
*SK/LK Ulm Ulm Maj M L Hoover
“LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Capt R Urbach
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Maj F A Hubbard ©
Baden Area
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Capt R C Stenson
*LK Buchen Buchen Capt C H Wright
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col C L Jackson
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj C S Keena
*SK/LK Mannheim Mannheim Lt Col CH H Rue
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt J Zecca i
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj RH Stimson
“LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Capt J E Switzer
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
LAND HESSE

Office of Mil Gov for

Greater Hesse Wiesbaden Dr J R Newman

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 633)

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden Lt Col S S Graham
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden Ist Lt P J Weiss
“LK Alsfeld Alsfeld Capt S A Karas

“LK Bergstrasse Heppenheim Maj A R Gill >
*LK Biedenkopf Biedenkopf Capt W L Culbertson
*LK Buedingen Buedingen Capt G P Johnson

* Liaison and Security

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

21

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*SK/LK Darmstadt
“LK Dieburg

*LK Dill

*LK Erbach

“LK Eschwege
*LK Frankenberg
“SK Frankfurt
“LK Friedberg
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Gelnhausen
SK/LK Giessen
“LK Gross Gerau
SK/LK Hanau
“LK Hersfeld

*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Huenfeld
*SK/LK: Kassel
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Limburg

*LK Main-Taunus
*SK/LK Marburg
*LK Melsungen
“LK Ober:ahn
“LK Obertaunus
*SK/LK Offenbach
“LK Rheingau
“LK Rotenburg
*LK Schluechtern
“LK Usingen

“LK Untertaunus
“LK Waldeck

“LK Wetzlar

“SK Wiesbaden
“LK Witzenhausen
“LK Wolfhagen
“LK Ziegenhain

Office of Mil Gov for
Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Gov Regt
Hq & Sv Company

*A-210 SK/LK Wuerzburg
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Bad Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen

*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Brueckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemuenden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*A-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt

*A-339 LK Koenigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Darmstadt
Dieburg
Dillenburg
Erbach
Eschwege
Frankenberg
Frankfurt
Friedberg
Fritzlar
Fulda
Gelnhausen
Giessen
Gross Gerau
Hanau
Hersfeld
Hofgeismar
Huenfeld
Kassel
Lauterbach
Limburg
Hofheim
Marburg
Melsungen
Weilburg
Bad Homburg
Offenbach
Ruedesheim
Rotenburg
Schluechtern
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Korbach
Wetzlar
Wiesbaden
Witzenhausen
Wolfhagen
Ziegenhain

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Rgt (APO 407)

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wuerzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Brueckenau
Ebern
Gemuenden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Koenigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfe'd
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt (Saale)
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Lt Col J C Rose
Capt M S C.ark
Maj L H Brown
Capt E H Jackson
Maj E J Hart

Maj L S Williams
Maj G C Sola
Maj P E Perry

Maj W C Gipple

Lt Col J K Schmidt
Capt C D Fexy
Maj G R Moore
Capt W N Condon
Lt Col C H Reed
Maj John Connelly
Maj W Baymor
Capt W G Westbrook Jr
Lt Col G J Albrecht
Capt C R Argo
Capt J S Chapin
Maj J C Nelson

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj A C Bergis

Lt Col M A Meacham
Maj C A Vollrath
Maj W R Sheehan
Capt W L Young
Capt S Kershaw
Capt O F Howard
Capt J N Francis
Maj M E Chotas
Maj D J Heffernan
Maj C F Russe

Col C H Boucher
Maj B L Bassinor
Capt V K Ledbetten
Capt T W Harris

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Lt Col J W Bender

Lt Col M W Crouse
Lt Col W R Bepze
Maj J E Breland
Maj E H Emry

Maj R C Jernigin
Capt A T Neumann
Maj R C Gesell
Capt D J Huffman
Maj JS Sullivan
Capt R L Rigg

Maj R J Ho.mes
Capt J H Biery
Capt W A Farrilmylin
Capt R F. Hellmig
Capt H P Rice

Ast Lt J G Purcell
Capt I A Lowell
Maj A C McIntyre
Maj G B Munioe
Capt H A McEndry
Capt J O Barnett
Maj E C Wimberly

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 26 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER.

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nuernberg
*B-222 SK/LK Bamberg
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreuth
*"B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 SK/LK Coburg
*B-226 LK Kronach
“B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Fuerth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
LK Staffeistein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hoechstadt (Aich)
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
“B-255 LK Pegnitz
*B-256 LK Muenchberg
“B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
“B-261 LK Dinkelsbuehl
*B-262 LK Eichstaett
“B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
“B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
“B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
“B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf
“B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
“B-347 LK Naila
“B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Ansbach
Nuernberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Copurg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Fuerth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hoechstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Muenchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuehl
Eichstaett
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf

Neustadt (Aisch)
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Col E M Haight

Lt Col J C Barnet

Lt Col J A McEboy
Lt Col S R D Smith
Lt Col J A Thompson
Lt Col F Robie

Capt A J Pippen
Maj F Meszar

Lt Col F Yardley

Lt Col R R Reed

Maj T B Stuart
Capt O M Cole
Capt M B Moorfield
Maj H L Woodell
ist Lt J H Pheeters
Maj T Cleary

Maj R C Anderson
Capt G Hultzen
Capt F J Cramer
Maj A F Adams
Capt R Julien

Capt N C Petty
Capt L W Edgar
Capt J R Lewis
Capt A A Gunter
Maj C W Collier
1st Lt F L Roessler
Maj H T Lund
Maj C J Cody

Ist Lt L J Pickrel
Maj F C Smith
Capt G B Jones
Capt J H Campbell
Maj F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz ‘

Co D
*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg
*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
(Wald)
*D-243 SK/LK Passau
*D-244 SK/LK Amberg
*D-245 SK/LK Landshut
“D-246 SK/LK Straubing
*D-274 LK Cham
*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld
*D-276 LK Parsberg
*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth
*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*D-279 LK Eschenbach
*D-301 LK Deggendorf
*D-302 LK Eggenfelden
*D-303 LK Grafenau
*D-304 LK Kelheim
*D-305 LK Landau (Isar)
“D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen
*D-307 LK Regen
*D-308 LK Vilshofen
*D-309 LK Vilsbiburg
*D-310 LK Wolfstein
*D-349 LK. Kemnath
*D-350 LK Nabburg
*D-351 LK Oberviechtach
*D-352 LK Riedenberg
*D-353 LK Vohenstrauss
*D-354 LK Roding
“D-355 LK Wa'dmuenchen
*D-356 LK Beilngries

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zwiesel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj J F Ray

Maj C G Doy'’e

Maj J Mullholland
Maj J G Shackelford
Maj R E Boyd

Maj E O Carlson
Capt I R Mariels
Capt E C Phillips
Maj R W Hitchcock
Capt E A McNamara
Maj S Kommel

Maj E Fitcher

Maj J J Maher
Capt M Glossop

1st Lt D F Razynski
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickham
Capt K K Miller

Lt Col G M Foster
Capt G H Segur
Maj R E Levy

Capt R N McWhorter
Mai V M Corbin
Capt T J Hansen
Maj H A Hardt

Capt M C_ Gibbons
Mai B B Coul’ahan
Maj L P Rhodes
Capt R W Bussington
Maj R O Woodward

1 SEPTEMBER 1947

23

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*D-357 LK Neumarkt (Opf.)
*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*D-375 LK Bogen

*D-377 LK Dingolfing
*D-378 LK Griesbach
*D-379 LK Koetzting
*D-380 LK Mainburg
*D-381 LK Mallersdorf
*D-382 LK Rottenburg
*D-383 LK Viechtach
*D-385 LK Wegscheid

Co E

*E-213 SK/LK Munich
*E-231 SK/LK Freising
*E-232 LK Miesbach
*E-233 LK Traunstein
*E-234 LK Altoetting
*E-235 SK/LK Rosenheim
*E-236 LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt
*E-280 LK Erding

*E-281 LK Laufen

*E-282 LK Muehldorf
*E-283 LK Wasserburg
*E-284 LK Toelz

*E-285 LK Aibling

*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*E-287 LK Landsberg
*E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 LK Starnberg
*E-290 LK Weilheim’
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden
*E-361 LK Ebersberg
*E-362 LK Aichach

*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-367 Dachau‘

*E-368 Schongau

*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg
*G-239 LK Dillingen

*G-240 LK Neu-Ulm

*G-241 LK Sonthofen
“G-242 SK/LK Kempten
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth
*G-293 LK Guenzberg
*G-294 LK Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 LK Memmingen
*G-296 LK Mindelheim
*G-297 LK Neuberg

*G-298 LK Noerd:ingen
*G-299 LK Fuessen

*G-300 LK Krumbach
*G-369 LK Illertissen
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren
*G-372 LK Wertingen
*G-373 LK Friedberg
*G-374 LK Schwabmuenchen

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen
Bremerhaven Detachement

Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Koetzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Garmisch
Ingolstadt
Erding

Laufen
Muehldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz

Bad Aibling
Fuerstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach ;
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Dillingen
Neu-Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwoerth
Guenzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Fuessen
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Noerdlingen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmuenchen

LAND BREMEN (APO 751)

Bremen
Bremerhaven

BERLIN SECTOR (APO 742-A)

Berlin

‘Maj T A Crhristophil

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Capt R W Ziegler
Capt V D Dygert
Maj G J Spellman
Maj W J Pugh
Capt C G Dansby
Capt L O Thibodeau
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones
Capt J T Clegg
1st Lt H L Oerter
Capt N Ugland

Lt Col R J Philipott
Lt Col J H Kelly
Maj V L Thom
Capt W A Forys
Capt C W Larimer
Maj D S Root

Lt Col S R Place
Lt Col R T Shelby
Lt Col J A Crewe
Capt G D Jacobson
Capt T Eshleman
Maj M E Hough
Maj L R Day

Maj A O Froede
Maj W Williams
Capt L R Shelton
Maj K B Cassidy
Maj H E Reed
Capt B B Posey
Maj C A Brown

Maj W W Perham
Maj C A Rein

Capt A T Kutauskas
Capt Jesse L Ott
Ist Lt J A Walker
Maj A J Le Fevre

Lt Col J R Hector

Lt H F Fenzel

Capt D C Dunn

Capt J N Urtes

Maj H E Howlett
Maj H Sebastian
Maj A Yokss
Capt S D Lubin

ist Lt C O Shell
Maj S J Manngqimelli
Maj W S Reed

Capt R H Knowles
Capt J A Morris
Capt H W Worthington
1st Lt J Christian
Maj M G Norum

Ist Lt E G Conner
Capt D J Moran
Capt G H Waters

Mr T F Dunn
Lt Cot Alfred L Haig

Mr F L Howley

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF