--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 105 / 11 AUGUST 1947
4 DQ@CUMENT CENTER)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG

AUTERBACH

OBER —

LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN
pe pee
IESBADEN, (Recruge
OFFENBACH

ROTEN BURG

OFSHEIM

BRucHsAle
HEILBRONN
\— eal BACKNANG
LEONBER |

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

7771 DOCUMENT CENTER — The record
of every Nazi, affiliate, and most followers
is on file at the Center. It can be easily
obtained, evaluated, and dispatched to in-
terested authorities, as illustrated on this
week's cover. The story of the Center
begins on page 3. {photo by Byers)

INFORMATION

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

The material for 7771ist Document Center
was furnished by Kurt Rosenow who has
been working with documents in this theater
since August 1944 when he was on the staff
of the SHAEF G—2 Document Section. He
is now Chief of the NSDAP Records Branch
of the 7771st Document Center.

Walter Hinrichsen, Music Control Officer,

Information Control Division, OMGUS, sup- TABLE OF CONTE NTS
plied the information for the Inter-Allied

Music Library. Mr. Hinrichsen was a master Issue No. 105 11 August 1947
sergeant with the 106th Division before he
joined OMGUS in 1945.

John D. Ryals, Jr. of the Reports and 7771st Document Center. ........... 38
Statistics Section, IA&C Division, OMGUS, Restoration of Communications... . . 5
wrote Restoration of Communications. Mr.

Ryals has been in Europe four years, serving German Reactions . 9

with the Army Service Forces before joining i eG Gel: Lib

OMGUS two years ago. Before the war he nter-Allied Music Library . ©)» +) ss. Wl

"was with the Civil Aeronautics Authority. Press and Radio Comments: \wpeg oer ho. 18
Problem of Uniform Laws . = © oy + 6G. «2 14
Official Instructions «9 4) « 40d) cee 8 16

NEXT WEEK

The efforts made by the occupational
forces and the results obtained by the Ger-
mans in maximizing agriculture and in-
creasing the food supply were surveyed re-
cently by a quadripartite team of experts.
Some of the situations and the progress will
be explained in Issue No. 106. Another
article will deal with the farm women of
Germany. Also scheduled is the presenta-
ae of the practice play at Oberammergau OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
_in preparation for the Passion Play in 1950. CONTROL OFFICE. APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
I11\st

the. US Seventh AQ
Munich were , _ the . most important
records of. the ‘Nazi Party,, The whole
Central Membership , Card. Index ‘of
the NSDAP lay there in burlap sacks,
to “be opened,’ “by pop-eyed, | “taud-
stained GI's.

‘Party leaders were well aware how
damning these cards. would be if they
fell into’ “Allied ‘hands,and when
defeat? appeared imminent they réshed
them ‘Gf to’ be ‘pulped,’ With’ implicit
ordets thatthe pulping’ was to begin’
at once. Howevér, in thé confusior
and excitement just ‘befote the fall’ of
the city they failed t8 overséé the job
with -their ‘customary efficiency,’ ‘and
the owner ‘of the mill procrastinated:
So the detaited dossiers of the eight
and a half miflion’‘members of one of
the mhdést vicious political organization
the world has'‘éver known wére pre-
served to say “j’ in many a

ay . arched into

‘j'accuse”
courtroom in the zones of Germany,

Other important Nazi records cog-
tinued to turn’ up from hiding ‘places
where they had beén sent for Safe-
Keeping. Some were in the salt mi nes
in the Tyrol mountains, gthers | in
mountain caches in” “Bavaria and
Austtia, With ‘them it ig pdssible to
determine just who had’ been a Nazi,
and how fanatic a Nazi he” had been.

These records ate now kept at the
US Army's 777tst Ddcumént' Center
in Berlin, and are available for use by

On, a busy day. the,.Army's;:7771st
Document Center receives, Ww Hl over
11,000 queries about people. who lived
in ‘Germany during the Nazi regime.
In ‘the’ picturés’ (upper ‘Tett and left
center), carefully screenéd workers
are checking thé master ‘file’ of the
Nazi Party membership. The worker
Gower Jeft) is removing the personnel
record from aq. file which. gives data
on every doctor. Whe. practiced. in
Germany , duririg ‘the. Third Reich.
(Upper right) The race and setflement
files of the SS are being used. These
give elaborate data on’ every S$ man
and his-wite or francéeé. (Cenfer and
Jower. right) The: reeards: of Getman
teachers ..and . university; professors
are being used. (Photos by Byers)

44 AUGUST. 1947

DOCUMENT CENTER

all Allied Bowers. “The stati handles
more than 4,000 queries. daily, with
speed. and efficiency.

HERE is an eerie quality about the

7771st Document Center. This is
curious, because the, center really
consists of long rows, gf conventional
filing cabinets.: Carefully screened
German workers bend earnestly ovet
folders. Yet the long underground
rooms are vaguely reminiscent of thé
sét for a movie thriller.

Probably this atmosphere rises..from
the fact that .the. rows. of cards in
these rooms have such a dread ‘im-
portance for the future of ‘all-'thée
living persons _ whose names are
written on them. Perhaps it is because
of the armed guards pacing outside
the building, the meticulous security
checks inside the building.

‘Most of the documents filed at the
centér were in great disorder when
captured, and. upon’ their arrival’ in
Berlin: much time ard labor was
required to' restore them to usable,
alphabetical sequenée. Some of this
sorting is still going on, but’ the job
is now almost complete.

-The information. service. was - in-
stituted. 1:: April, 1946, although the
work of restoring the documents to
order was still taking place. Among
the first agencies 46 use the Document
Center was the ‘International Military
Tribunal: at. Nuremberg,--which | relied
extensively :upon material supplied
from this source in the ‘conviction of
the major. waf! criminals. ‘Brig. Gen.
Telford Taylor, Chief of Counsel for
War--€rimes, . asserted in. a letter
written: 26 May :1947:, “It may be
stated for. the: récord: that::the: In-
ternational ;, Military. Tribunal made
extensive.use,,of (German documents
from:.the, Berlin; Document Center...
the. trials new. being. conducted rely
most .-heavily upon, docunientary
proofs. nt

INCE then MG. agencies of the oc;
gupying powers, and other mem-
bers of the United Nations. have made
extensive use of, these: records;: as
well as the FBI, the US Immigration
Service, the, .State Department, va-

3

rious Conigressional committees, ‘and
Federal | Courts in the United States,
All MG courts were directed, in.an
official order. of 15 July 1947, to take
judicial notice of, the, fact that the
777Ast, Document Center is in possqs-
sion of the official and central mem-
hership.: records of, the. Nazi Party,
and that the, ‘records. are believed to.
be complete as to more than 90 .per-
cent of the total Party membership.
The directive. explains that the
NSDAP files were kept “with meti-
eulous accuracy,. and in, Such detail
that they listed. even such information,
as,, whether or not individual mem.
bers paid, their dues oR time, trans-
ferred from one subordinate Party.
group to. another, were expelled, , or
reinstated., Decision of Party Courts,
and issuance of, membership books
are included, in the wealth of data.
Courts are instructed, by this order,
that as long as otherwise admissible,
these records are not to be excluded,
on technical grounds of hearsay, and
that unless the issues, before, the
court can be resolved only by produc-
tion of the original records, photo-
static: copies of such. records}? tc
companied -by: certification ‘by: the
Docuniert. Center Custodian, are’ te
be accorded’ admissibitity. © -

ANY.:former Nazis,-remain. un-

aware. how complete these files
are until, they. hear their carefully
drawn: tissue of lies collapse in a
courtroom. Many, especially expellees
from - the . Sudetenland, and East
Prussia, and Western Poland believed
all records..of their.-former political
affiliations were -lost or, destreyed
during. the. war. They, do not realize
that. there..were three. different. files
of the NSDAP. membership. The first
was the application blank which the
candidate for party: membership signed
with: his ‘own handwriting .and sub-
mitted to.the loeal Ortsgruppe of the
district in which: he maintained his
residence. If .this -was .approved at
local . level :,the..- application . went
through, channels..te -party,. head-
qparters in. Munich, Beginning . in
May 1937 a detailed Fyagebogen was
also filled out.by.:the; applicant. him:

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
self and submitted thtough ghannels
along with the. application.

“When the endorsed appliation was
received at party headquarters if its
plea for party membership was
viewed favorably it was given a
number in a box in the upper right
hand corner. Two record cards were
made out from the data on the ap-
plication form, one for an alphabet-
fcal master file, and one for a file
which was kept geographically, with
members indexed according’ to the
district in which they lived. The
names were also entered in a Mém-
bership Register, which was kept on
a chronological basis.

Along with these permanent record
cards a pink-colored © membership
card was filled out stamped with the
membership nuniber, and dispatched
back to the new Nazi's’ “ward” or
Ortsgruppen, where it was issued to
the member by ‘the ward leader.
When he received this card hé was
a full-fledged party member, entitled
to wear the party badge.

If the card from one of these files
happens to have been lost during the
time the documents were hastened
into hiding, at least one of the other
two is almost sure to be in éxistence.

RTY- membership was regarded

as a privilege tobe especially
sought, and. jealously: guarded. The
German who whines plaintively that
he was taken into the party without
his knowledge is simply labeled .as
lying. In fact it was so“ much a
privilege that Reichsmarshal Her-
mann Goering was thrown into a
tizzy when he discovered tardily in
1938 that his wife, the buxomly
handsome Frau Emmy, was not a
Member. The “second” Nazi took time
off from his official duties to keep
the wires and the mails busy between
his office’ and. party headquarters
trying to arrange a "fix". ‘

On Christmas Eve a telegram from
the Fuehrer arrived, which rewarded
his efforts by announcing that Hitler
had decided to confer the coveted
party membership, back-dated to 1932,
on Frau Goering as a Christmas gift.

Ex-Nazis often claim that they were
automatically “absorbed” into’ the
party, when another ‘organization of
which they “were a member was
incorporated into the party. This was

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

lever. done, not: “even in: ‘the case of
the Hitler Youth. Upon deaching .the
age of eightéen a limited, selected
group of the HJ and BDM were re-
commended for admission to the Nazi
party (about 20 percent of the boys
and five percent of the girls) but

on 20422 om

Siew

inline 7 Cingete.
‘Ansgetr. :
: 9 i

oh JED he et ang
‘Dohaung Pahl +

pee Bt a.

Wioanng _

9.8. Cun

Hitler's membership card found in
the Nazi Party. files now held at the
Document Center. This. card carries
the. number “1” whereas his original
number was seven.

these became members ‘only after
submitting’ their applications and
going through the ‘required routine.

ESIDE the NSDAP master file, the
777ist Document: Center . also
houses records of affiliated organiza-
tions, the party -court records, and
voluminous -records sconnected with
high-ranking party officials,.such as
the diaries of Himmler. :
The filesiof the Race anid Settlement
Office which were found in the Harz
mountains by the Ninth Army are fas-

-cinating psychological studies. They

contain detailed information pertain-
ing: to around 500,000 individuals.
Every SS man and police officer who
was ‘already married or wished to
marry was required to get an approv-
al from the Reichsfuehrer SS, He
had ‘to submit very detailed informa-
tion about himself and his wife of
fiancee, with three pictures of each
of them, and a family tree of both,
in his own handwriting ‘and ‘the
handwriting of the woman concerned.

4

tt ts. interesting to ‘note * ‘the -way'
these young women’ were sometimes
described’ in the “character tefer-
ences” which accompanied the appli-
cation: “sturdy and healthy", “good at
sports", “an adept heedlewoman, 4’
capable housekeeper.” An SS matt
who wanted ‘to get married was de-
scribed in his medical report: “manly
chest, abdomen taut." ;

This collection also includes’ "spme
of the records of girls who. were
employed in higher SS headquarters
or, concentration camps,

The personnel files. of SS officers,
which are. the equivalent of, the
American. .officers’ 201 files and 66-1
cards, are now atthe Berlin Docu-
ment. Center, as are the SA files,
containing personal Fragebogen of
SA leaders and: men , and files of
disciplinary actions taken against
SA members, This file also contains
information on. some NSKK and NSKF
members, These records were turned
over to the 777ist. Document Center
by American and British document
centers,

JHE files of the National Socialist

teachers’ organization, and NS
university professors organization
consist of index cards which give
names, personal data and _ party
membership numbers of members of
these organizations. These files, found
in Bavaria by the. Third Army are
believed to be complete.

The records of the NS organization
of German technicians which were
discovered in Marktschwaben and
Solnhofen usually disclose some pro-
fessional information on the individual
as well as membership in the party.
The “Reichsaerzteverzeichnis” ‘con-
tains ‘about 40,000 individual record
cards on German medical doctors,
party members or not, and gives in-
formation concerning. their medical
specialities,

The files of the re-immigrants
office contains information on' persons
who had left Germany for abroad and
then returned to Germany. It pertains
to German, citizens in general, ‘not
just party members, and the , thor-
oughness with -which.it was ‘com-
piled often comes as a shock. to: Ger-
mans who now ‘seek to retumn:to the

(Continued on page 10)

11 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 8 ---
HE success of the MG program for

the restoration of the vital postal
and telecommunications services of
the German Reichspost is graphically
illustrated by a comparison of 1937
monthly statistics with those recorded
in the US Zone during May 1947.

More than three times the number
of civilian telegrams, twice the num-
ber of long distance telephone calls,
and approximately 10 percent more
letter mail were processed during last
May as were in a month before the
war. These figures do not include a
substantial volume of traffic trans-
mitted over Reichspost facilities by
the Occupational Forces.

The monthly total of more than
1,500,000: gift relief parcels, of which
more than 500,000 were addressed to
the US Zone, arrived in Germany via
international parcel’ post. .This was
probably the largest volume ever
distributed by a national postal
system. While complete post check
statistics are not available, total trans-
actions amounting to RM 4,000,000,000
were processed through the five post
check offices during May, comparing

11 AUGUST 1947

By John D. Ryals, Jr.

favorably with best estimates of pre-
war figures.

More than 70.percent of the tele-
phones and approximately 98 percent
of the prewar telephone central offices
have been restored to service. More
than 33,000 military telephones con-
nected to civil switchboards and a
number of Reichspost telephone and
telegraph exchanges serving head-
quarters and. establishments- of the
Occupation Forces are not considered
in these percentages.| The rehabilita-
tion of long distance ‘cable facilities
has progressed as rapidly as materials
become available, but are still inade-
quate for current requirements. The
continued transfer of long distance
lines employed by. the Occupational
Forces will do much to relieve this
shortage.

IONSIDERABLE progress has been
attained in the MG program for
the return of all civil facilities to the
operation and control of German
agencies. A major portion of the long
distance lines communications system

5

in the US Zone, formerly. controlled
by the military forces, was transferred
in June 1946, This program, scheduled
for completion.by,1 October, will re-
sult in the transfer -of;all remaining
facilities to the Reichspost and: place
full responsibility for the provision of
telecommunications services for the
Occupational Forces. on | German bi-
zonal agencies. In addition, the phas-
ing out of various US commercial
telegraph companies, . licensed , for
certain international communications
operations in Germany;,is well ad-
vanced and it is anticipated that their
operations will be assumed entirely
by the bizonal communications agency
prior to the end of 1947.

‘Although the success’ of the pro-
gram. for restoration of) Reichspost
services is encouraging,' certain re-
strictions affecting interzonal and in-
ternational communications are reduc-
ing the usefulness of the civil system
and retarding the return to normalcy
of the German economic structure. US
communications personnel serving as
delegates on quadripartite committees,
subcommittees, and working parties

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
engaged in communications activities
are currently renewing their efforts to
eliminate zonal barriers and expand
international: services to the degree
necéssary to ifisure the success“of the .
oceupation.An adequate and efficient
communications “system is a recog-
nized. prerequisité for the economic re-
covery of Germany and the Rare
ment of US objectives.

RIOR to the war, Germany: maine
tained one of the most complete
communications system in the world.
All postal, telephone, and telegraph
- services were provided by a govern-

mental agency known as the Reichs-
post,: which functioned as ‘e da
“ment of a national: jyovernnient i
ed by a Cabinet Minister responsible
directly to the head of the state.”
_ The Reichspost also provided ah
extetisive postal banking, system con-
sisting of two independentif-ofrated
services: the post check system, in-
tended primarily for smail business
“men and persons in the low income
» brackets, but widely ‘used by large
*“corporatiéns and government agen-
cies; **and the, comparatively new
postal savings seivice. The latter was
introduced after the annexation of

* tation. has been sharply.

Austria in 1938 when the Austrian
Postal, Savings, ‘Bank ‘was absorbed by

largest cone | ‘jnotorbus™ ‘sygtom:
; consisting of more ‘than:
5,000 lines carrying. thou Is of
passengers as well as mail,

and freight in active competition with

independent. companies ‘and. other
government agencies. Since the be-
ginning of the occupation, Reichspost
participation in’ commercial’ transpor-
reduced,
Passengers and baggage thay now be

RESTORATION OF REICHSPOS1

DATES AUTHO

“SERVICES (US ZONE)

Intrazonal.,. ‘Se : =
POSTAL SERVICES Brow Berlin
Letters & Postcards ....,.+.. | 25.$ep, 48 “| 24 Oct, 43° 24 Oct. 45
Printed Matter .... 25 Sep. 45 20 Oct. 460°: } 20 Oct. 46
Mixed Articles .. 25:Sep. 45 24 Oct. 45 . 24 Oct. 45
Small Packets .. 6 Oct. 45 10 Nov. 46° 15 May 47
Parcel Post ..... 6 Oct. 45 10 Nov. 46 15 May 47
Registered Letters . 12 Oct. 45 24 Oct. 45 24 Oct. 45 24 Oct. 45 24 Oct. 45
|., Registered Parcels 12 Oct. ..45 -
sured Mail Matter 12 Oct. 45°
WDieei edie lees 5 Dec. 45 ue ; . .
express Letters & Postcards”. | 12 Oct. 45 ; 20 Oct. “45 20 Oct. 4B
» Newspaper’ Subscription Sérvice 5 Dec. 45 16 Sep. 46° 16Stp. 46° , oe
" Morey Orders +: 5 Ded. 45 10 Navi46%| 9 4Jan. 47 ! y
Post Check: Service . 5 Dec. 45°" 10°Noved6 82). 91 Jan, 47° é
Postal Savings Service. . 20: Oct. .45 1. Jan 42 4 Jul. 47
TELEPHONE SERVICES ’
Station’ to Station 1 Aug. 45 "7 Jan. 46 nl 2 Jan. 460°
Petson to Person .. 7 Jan. 46 10 Nov. 46 J. er ;
Urgént Calls... 19 Aug. 45° [' “10 Nov.46 45 Jan. 47
Flash Calls "19 Aug. 45° “P 10 Nov. 467° : yes
Collect Call 21 Aug? 45° |. 10'Nov? 46 15 Jan. 47
Conferénce-Calls. 27 Aug. 45> $f 10 Nov. 46 Pe ote
Anpoittment § Calls ivei cece cee 14 Jan. 46 - 10 Nov. 46.”
TELEGRAPH SERVICES . 5 fon
Ordinary Felegrams .. TNov. 45 "| Nov, 46. 7 Jan. 46.) 9 Jans 46° 7 Jan. 46
«Urgent Telegrams : 7 Nov. 45 10'Nov. 46 ° f bbeku Pa eds
. .Flash Telegrams ..;. 7 Nov. 45 “| 10 Nov. 46 devi do hevibe a
si Reply Paid Telegram: TNov. 45'~] (10 Now. 48 +7" ok} Jan..47) 4. 15 Jan. 47.
. Luxury Telegrams... _ 10 Nov. 46 10 Nov. 46 [ther a) gee tees aft Bas
. Letter Telegrams, 10 Nov. 46 10 Noy.,A6 . de :
, Government Telegrams " TNov.45. [10 No — wo ;
|. Press Telegrams ..’. TNov. 45°F 10.Nov..46 | . aa .
Urgent Press Telégram: : 7 Nov. 45°" ’ i0'Nov.'6” “ i ; «
Subsribers’ Telegraph Service. |" 10 Nov. 46 10 ‘Nov. 46° [1 : i Dota
“Network * .. {10 Nov. 46 =} 10 Now 46° ~

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN 6 14-AUGUST 1947

--- Page 10 ---
carried only, in, br gaging actively in teséarch and -devel- trol, and will be placed under, Land
conveyance. of mails... : he @pment sand acting ‘as the licensing broadcasting corporations to be estab-

The Reichspost swas -also: active.. dn agelicy: for: other tadio: services. This lished. by the. Laenderrat. Reichspost
radio’ services, -operating all. public phas participation in this field is currently
broadcast transmission ‘facilities, .en- limited to the provision of. wire and

POSTAL SERVICES, , | .. USSR. Berlin

Letters & Postcards ~ a) a) iApr. 46/ a) 1 Apr. 46
Printed Matter ». b) ——
Mixed Articles .

Small Packets. . Q a cok Re aes 5 i ho
Parcel Pogt,.... d) 15 Jan. 47 d), 15 Jan. 47:}"-d) 15°Jan. 42:)..d) 16. Jans 477].

Registered Letters
Registered ‘Parcels
Ingured Mati Matter

Express Letters & Posttards '..'
Newspaper Subscription Savice “
Money Orders: | :

Post Check Service-
Postal Savings, Service,

eee Db eo a ees Ith f :

TELEPHONE SERVICES. ; pies a ete

Station-to Station:
* Person to Person +
Urgent Calls ....
Flash Calls...
Collect,Galls .:.
- Gonference cals we
Appointment © i

id

“a6 Dec. 46. |

Urgent Telegrams
Flash Telegrams
} Reply Paid Telegrams?
Luxury-Telegrams:
Letter! Lelegrams,; >
Government. ed

. press Telegrams. ..+ ¢
: Urgent Eas Lele
; om Ser

d. domestig’ nature ‘with q-waight limit of 2» grams;
:20,¢0.,500. grams 1 1 Feb 1947;
Germany js ; authorized

a)'On date of xeopening.:ef seivice,; international mail Limited 3f matigis
: -fontent extended - to imelyde, matters, of. a, non- -transactiona nature on)
,and content extended to, include transactional ‘métl eiettived’ 15! ‘Sund” fod * tr Tdddition, ‘onte- -way aigmai) s service
fronr ‘the following count * United tes, United Kingdofi}Delimark, Steidedj BotadU'and Switzerlanll.
b) From thé “United "States oily. -fsee: footnote “’c") mo ‘ .
©) Froia “the ‘Ustteé' Kingdom: ana United ‘States 9t0/ thes URES Zond) *ogu ad reveal to permit transmittal from UK-+-US Zone to! the
. United :Kingdem and.Urited, States, effective 1-iAprinsogz> i eitechibene fe
@) Onerway -parcel post: (gift parcels) to. all, zones. and, the j
Initially authorized from,
3. Initially ‘limited Yo nlatter
““users must: Be’ Ueeised ’
1} Authorized. for,,outgoing traffic only.

count jes, except, Japan, and Spain and their. ‘dependencies.
in. August, French Zone in September 1946.
1 r“commnbidfeabtons * dtfective 15 “June Agi” Gdrmait

7: )) Aw@Rbrize for tdemthg traidetomty: 3 | iad 7 ot

11. AUGUST 1947 q WEEKLY. INFORMATION : BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
cable facilities and the collection of
radio receiver fees. These steps are
in conformance with MG policy for
general economic’ decentralization
where practicable.

URING the war, the efficiency and

grade of Reichspost services de-
teriorated rapidly as the Nazi govern-
ment pursued the policy of total war.
Of the 500,000 persons employed by
the German Reichspost in 1939, more
than 175,000 had been drafted into the
German armed forces by the end of
1944. This represented a large pro-
portion of the highly trained special-
ists, technicians, and administrators
required for the successful operation
of a national communications system.
The reservoir of the young apprentices
and trainees for higher positions was
seriously depleted.

Equipment suffered heavy destruc-
tion from Allied bombs, particularly
communications facilities which could
not be replaced from dwindling stocks
of national resources. This condition
culminated in the cessation of all
operations on VE-Day by order of the
Supreme Commander.

The rehabilitation of Reichspost
services has been a continuing pro-
cess, principally on a month-to-month
basis. By the end of 1945 all important
services had been restored within the
US Zone and Reichspost officials were
instructed to proceed’ with the re-
establishment of all pre-occupation
communications activities as rapidly
as availability of personnel and equip-
ment would permit. Since the econo-
mic merger of the US and British
Zones in January 1947, all Reichspost
services rendered prior to the occu-
pation have been re-instituted within
the bizonal area.

Major postal and _ telecommuni-
cations services have also been re-
established interzonally with the
French and Soviet Zones and the City
of Berlin; and all postal financial ser-
vices have resumed among the three
western zones. Parcel post service
has been reestablished between Ber-
lin and the occupied areas and efforts
are in progress to resume post check
and money order services between
that city and all zones. Quadripartite
agreement has not been reached for
the resumption of postal financial ser-
vices with the Soviet Zone, due pri-
marily to the absence of a common

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

On the occasion of the overhauling
of the 10,000 motor car for the US
Army, an exhibition was held at the

Bosch-Werke in Stuttgart. Shown
above is an US Army ordinance offi-
cer pointed out the features of a
model of the */s-ton truck.

(Photo from DENA-Bild)

financial policy for Germany and
various political and technical differ-
ences,

The restoration of international ser-
vices for Germany involves numerous
and difficult problems and categories
of services remain limited and some-
what restricted. However, internation-
al, postal service for letters and post-
cards was resumed in April 1946 and
considerable progress has been made
toward extending classifications of
service rendered and weight limita-
tions. One-way airmail to Germany is
available from the United States and
the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and
Poland, and plans are now in progress
to introduce outgoing airmail service.
One-way parcel post service (gift re-
lief parcels). was authorized from the
United States to the US Zone in June
1946, and by 15 January 1947 the
ACA had extended this service to all
occupied zones and the City of Ber-
lin from all countries. Foreign credits
earned by the Reichspost for the deliv-
ery of these parcels in the US/UK
Zones currently amount to more than
300,000 dollars per month.

NTERNATIONAL.. telecommunica-
tions involve a variety of compli-
cations and it was not until January
1947 that quadripartite approval in
principle was reached on the reestab-
lishment of these services. Unlike

8

postal communications which are
handled almost entirely on a recipro-
cal basis, telephone and telegraph
traffic requires various financial con-
siderations which must be negotiated
with the country -of destination, and
periodic settlements of accounts are
necessary. The difficulty thus encount-
ered is easy to realize, when con-
sidering that German currency has no
standing whatsoever on the _inter-
national exchange.

Through special arrangements, both
international telephone and telegraph
services were established in the US/
UK Zones on 1 April 1947, and are
now available to the United States
and all countries in the western hemi-
sphere, the United Kingdom, Ireland,
Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland,
Belgium, France, Switzerland, Czecho-
slovakia, Luxembourg, and Italy. Re-
sumption of service with other
countries is dependent upon agree-
ment on rates and technical arrange-
ments, and quadripartite discussions
are in progress to extend these ser-
vices to all of Germany.

Although these services are avail-
able to all US and Allied personnel in
the UK/US Zones and the US and UK
Sectors of Berlin who. must make 'pay-
ment for both domestic and inter-
national services in dollars, only
those German residents of the UK/US
Zones who are engaged in business
activities beneficial to the economic
recovery of Germany are licensed by
the Joint Export-Import Agency
(JEIA) to initiate international traffic
payable in Reichsmark,

OWEVER, collect telephone calls

to other countries ‘have been
authorized and Sweden and the United
States have agreed to accept this type
of traffic; and prepaid telegrams from
all countries will be accepted in the
bizonal area. All German residents of
the UK/US Zones may participate in
these services since payment in for-
eign currencies is not involved. There
are no restrictions on incoming calls
and messages with the exception that
all communications must comply with
ACA, MG, and German laws.
Discussion. of Germany's
assets is prohibited; and all foreign
credits earned by the Reichspost
accrue to export proceeds which are
used by JEIA toward paying for the

(Continued on page 15)

external

11 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 12 ---
Visit of US Secretaries

The, Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung ; (Heidel-
berg)commented on’ the visit to» Ger-
many of ;US: Secretaries ‘Harriman, of
Commerce, ,and« Anderson of» Agri-
culture .as follows:

“According to, figures Sidiianadt by
the. Economic Division; ;OMGUS, -the
American and British, taxpayers pay
for every second slice of bread‘ con-
sumed in the two western zones. Quy
annual export_is not enough. to. pay
for these slices of bread even for one
week. In 1947 the cost will amount
to $692 millions... This is to us cold
comfort because nobody understands
the gratitude that he owes.

“Two ministers, from the United
States have visited our country. Now
it is time to realize fully what the
Secretary of Agriculture said in Berlin
and in Stuttgart. America is going to
ship this year 300,000 tons of grain
to the two western zones. It was not
just “anybody who said so, but a
responsible member ‘of the US govern-
ment... That means ‘that. we can
count and plan with ‘that quantity . .
Sectetary | of ‘Commerce ee nen
spoke’ of _an increase in our steel
production. This, too, is a “word that
means more that just a swallow for
our summer.’ 7

° Proof of Democracy

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Re-
gensburg) said that the rise of Alfred
Loritz, recently disposed as Bavarian
denazification minister, was proof not
of a failure of democracy but of the
political immaturity of the German
people.

“The Bavarian people have too long
been accustomed’ to grandiloquent
thetoric, So, at the. first attempt. at
free political action apart of the
peoplé—fortunately an insignificant
part—have been unable to distinguish
between appearance and reality.

“Whether the’ majority of the
Bavarian Landtag | ‘did “well when’ !t
gave Loritz the responsibility of a
minister is ‘another question. The
Tesultsat any rate is that the public
Once more had occasion to learn ‘that
the loudest shouter is not necessarily

1” AUGUST 1947

Hope in Directive

The Oberbayerische Volksblatt
(Rosenheim) gave a_ hopeful
interpretation of the new US
polity <ditectives ; for »Germeny:, §)
uThe directive which Washing-
ton handed over to General Clay

is the formal acceptance of
an already existing situation,
even though there are some sen-
tences which go beyond that—
as for example certain details on
developing German export.” j

The  Fraenkische Landeszeitung
(Ansbach) said: “The new direc-
tive ... represents a welcome
improvement for us, even through
the international agreements and
hence the Potsdam Agreement.
are still considered law.” :

the best statesman. Happily, in a
aemocratic State—in contrast to the
totalitarian regime—such men cannot
permanently sconce aise in

positions of power.”
avab ins tan

Criticism of Council

“The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) criticized the Bizonal Economic
Council for its political maneuvering
that culminated in the exclusion of the
SPD from the directorates:

“As the final result of the election,
namely the nomination of five CDU
politicians to the bizonal offices, in-
dicated clearly it was all a game for
party-political power. The needs of
the public counted for nothing: It is
indicative of the disturbing’ develop-
ments in the Economic Council that
a sleepy silence prevailed “in ‘the
room when the reports on elimination
of distress were to be debated,” ©

-Periodical Exchange

In‘an editorial on “the ~ permission
for: exchange of periodicals among
the zones of Germany, the Essgeler
Zeitung said: “The Control’ Council
has signed a mew” directive, which
settles the exchange of newspapers,
magazines, and films in all four zones

9

changed with Ruseisielicended news-
papers.,and, magazines ;.. j
“We have seen ‘once, -how. a mis-
guided press of enormous circulation
Jed an entire nation into.war and
misery. We know how necessary.it
is to be. able to, compete in quantity,
as well as in quality, The: circulation
figures of different papers. should. be
compared with each other and the
smaller ones should, be adjusted to
the bigger ones, even on. condition
that less. important pub’ ications, dis-
appear for. the time being

iv

* The ‘Frankfurter Neue’ Pres e di
scribed life of young people ranging

between 16 ‘and 25 years, who have
made ‘their homes in the railroad
stations. The older ones are mostly
former officers ‘or students. They’ of
each other “ toga. ? bs TSTEG

“The average income of a magger’
tanges between 300 and “500 marks
daily. The money is adequate for the
daily néed of food and stimulants
which, of course, must all be provided
illegally...

“Beside_ the ‘maggers’ who earn
their living by plac marketing there
are those living on ‘opress':(Spritzen)
as>all those ‘deals are called :where
one takes without paying. Booty that
is difficult, to, dispose,.of goes. into
DP .camps_ almost, without exception,
That's, also. where. the; wholesale
suppliers come. from. A small part, of
the ‘maggers’. live .on the. girls, who
do not play..an important role within
the ‘community.’ They are sent to. the
soldiers of the occupation army. for
‘provisioning’ in the evening...

“The «desire to join, thé Foreign
Legion is: not very strong. Only those
who’ were mot ‘at all or only for a
short time in the army fell for that,
and someof them went over the hill
very soon! Their political views are
summed up in the sentence: ‘We ‘can
be deceived only. once!’"* y oot

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Communists Quitting

After the Communist members of
the Spruchkammern of Southern
Hesse announced their intention to
resign from office, the Offenbach-Post
interviewed Leo Bauer, KPD ‘leader. in
the -Landtag, -about the background of
this .detision, His replies were
published as follows:

“‘What is the reason for ‘this de-
cision: of the KPD?’

“‘The fact that the denazification
has recently developed into a re-
nazification...’

“"Will the ‘Communists’ resignation
from the Spruchkammern not ‘be re-
garded’ as’ an’ escape* from’ respon-
sibility?’ :

“’We cannot be expected to assume
the responsibility for ‘people being
assigned to’ the Economic Council
who should’ be rather summoned’ to
the Spruchkammer, or that by order
of Minister. Binder: : fer Teasons of
humanity Nazi-criminals are no longer
returned to the Soviet Zone.’

, “Will all KPD members of the de-
nazification courts..resign their man-
dates?!

“Without doubt. At all: meetings
held so far the decision of the KPD
Land directory has beea endorsed
unanimously. In the district of Darm-
stadt, for example, 50 “Communists
are going to stop working ‘for the
Spruchkammern following today's Te-
solution.’ ”

. Young Men Needed

| The Frankfurter Neuve Presse asked
for-'.a chance for e ..' younger
generation in German political life:

"Inthe times’ of the Weimar’ Re-
public’ ‘there’ ‘was a sarcastic saying
often: quoted among the ' younger
people: ‘Why ’do only ‘men‘in their
seventies rile us? Answet:' Because
thé octegenarians ‘are mostly dead!’.!.
“In recent days we have seen
evidence of reactionary tendencies in
Germany which’ again'would like to
exclude the young people:completély.
Nobody will of: course openly admit
that... During the past. weeks, how-
ever, it happened that two politicians
of two. different parties: used: the | ar-
gument agdinst.another than’ who had
criticized .their work, that Le .was
‘too young’ forethat -glic fy oarab ¢

WEEKLY: INFORMATION . BULLETIN

“This time we ought to get away
from the inherited idea that a man
can be given a responsible position
only after he has reached the age of
forty. Otherwise new catastrophic
reaction of the younger generation-is
with certainty. to.be expegted.”

(Continued from page 4)

TT1 st Document Center

country they. left when. they re-
immigrated to Germany. It gives the
reason the individual came back to
Germany handwritten, by himself, and
it's easy to check whether he came
to see his "poor, old, sick Aunt Gre-,
tel" or whether he came because he
“believed in the glorious world-role!
‘of the « gonqilering ‘Third Reich, “

The ‘files’ of the Central Immigra~
tion Office contain about a million
‘and a half names and include’ data
on many individuals “who immigrated,
into Germany, ‘ especially ‘during the
war, and discloses whether or not
‘they applied for German citizenship.

IHE files. of the. Supreme Party

Court, ,have proved. a. trap. - to
many a hypogritical.ex-Nazi,.wha got
dismissed from the party, for some
crime such as.embezzlement. These
individuals. fave. ,offen jrarisen in
court to testify ,that-.they,, are entitled
to special, cons eration because
although once Nazis, and party mem-
bers in good. standing, they, ,became
so dissatisfied with. the trend the
party was, taking that’ they were
bepted out because of their iberal
speeches: and actions,; hy

They. must find; it, somewhat: Ais-
congerting to be. confronted. ..with
volumingus., documents. which -prove
that. they. bitterly fought expulsion,
sweating...at the.4ime that .a better
Nazi never said ~Sieg Heil."

The personnel: files -of the~ party
court judges reund out: the list of
records available at the center.

Sonte:"epécial itenie" "Sich Us Hit-
ler's number:..tne: party «dard and: the
wills he: made ‘at. intervals. beginning
in' 1934: are’ ‘carefully: locked saway’.in
a safe. Hitler's number one¢.eard:dates
from-"1925. : In-:the - original:National
Socialist workers’. party, » dissolved
after the ‘abortive: Munich putsch ‘on

10

9 November 1923, he was member
number seven.

A visitor's sense of history is
stirred by the row on row of mis-
cellaneous papers and documents of
men -who were high in the party
hierarchy, and..whdse names caused
nations to tremble. Hess, Himmler,
Seyss-Inquart, and Heydrich, appear
over and over. on Document Center
folders. A little of everything seems
to have been kept here, even a play
manuscript which:was apparently sent
Streicher - for reading and ‘criticism.

IHE'7771st Document Center, which

Processes an average of 4,000
requests for information, receives
more than 5,000 requests each day, so
théreis ‘always necessarily a small
backlog. Routine inquiries normally
require about four weeks for pro-
cessing, Any ‘Allied authority writing
to. the Document Center for in-
fotmation should supply the family
name, ‘first and’ middle name, date
and place of birth, and occupation
of the person concerning whom the
query is being made. It frequently
facilitates “checking if additional in-
formation about the person's political
affiliations or other activites during
the ‘Nazi regime are briefly stated
with pertinent places and dates. If
there is any doubt about. the person's
exact date of birth it should be
checked with police records. AIn-
formation is not given to German
agencies ualess,a-requestiis made by
Military Government,

Original documents do not’ leave
thé Document Center except in very
Spécial cases, but photostatic copies
of orfginal, documents. may be ob-
tained’ ‘on request. Urgent requests
made by telephone, or, letter are: an-
swered. within 48 heurs.

“Such cases ‘as thit of Johannes Unt,
the former $S ‘major who held ‘ a high
position with UNRRA for two years
before a.routine check with the 7771st
prevente ; is .entry into the United
States. point. out,,, the, Value of, the
Berlin Document Center's place. in
the occupation of, Germany..In the
impottant job. of. separating the: chaff
from the wheat.it provides the final
cheek: for reliability.

11. AUGUST ‘1967

--- Page 14 ---
INTER-ALLIED
MUSIC
LIBRARY

HE most heartening aspect of the success of the
T Inter-Allied Music-Lending Library is the harmony
with which the four Allied powers have worked to-
gether for a common cultural goal. No hint of friction
or disagreement has ever marred this effort of Britain,
France, the United States, and the Soviet Union to
bring new life into the musical Sahara which Ger-
many became during the years of the Third Reich.

The idea. of establishing this inter-Allied music
exchange), must) be, credited to the United States,
through ‘the Information Control Division of Military
Government. Germany, traditionally a home of great
music, became completely sterile creatively during the
Nazi regime. Composers like Hindemith, Schoenberg
and Téch were forced to’ flee Germany, and the musi-
cians Who ‘remained ‘were deprived of all contact with
music being written and performed in other countries.

The German people lived in a sort vacuum mu-
sically speaking. They were unaware of the im-
portant music being written in Russia. They never
heard the works of Shostakovich or Miaskosky, nor
the important contributions of the Englishmen Vaughan
Williams and William Walton, nor American music of
Maine's Walter Piston, Oklahoma's Roy Harris, New
York's Morton Gould, Douglas Moore, or other Ameri-
can composers who, made great progress in their mu-
sical, development, during, this. period.

Through the IntersAllied Music-Lending Library much
of the music written during those years when Germany
lived behind her artistic Great Wall is being made
available at last for Germans.’ Professional musicians,
music’ teachers and ‘students who''come ‘to the" library,
located in the State Library building on historic Unter
den’ Lindén in Berlin; find it‘an exciting ‘experiente''to
read this music for the first time/“ Two grand? pianos
in, the library, encoutagé'them’ to try passages which
interest them immediately: Chambet music works may
be, withdrawn from ‘thé ‘library and kept two weehs
by students.

HE library is a ‘friendly, place, consisting of two

pleasant rooms attractively-decorated with musical
signs, and-symbols, and, shelyes of scores listed under
the country,in which. they were composed. Reference
books include Groves’ six volume “Dictionary of Music
and Musicians,” lives of Russian, American, British
and. French Composers, books on allied, arts such as
the, ballet, and the theater. Magazines such as Notes,

Upper—Visitors at the Library, studying a wall display.
Left—Because of the shortage of printed music, the

scores are copied for use. (Photos by Byers)

--- Page 15 ---
The files.iof: musical scores are. easily accessible to ‘visitors.
above contains music from the United States and Soviet Russia.

Musical Courier, and. Musical Quar-
terly tempt, the browser.

The staff consists of one head
librarian and, two assistants, The chief,
Mrs. Maria Peterka, was.formerly in
charge of Goethe's Music Library in
Weimar. Her husband was the Ger-
man composer Rudolph Peterka; she
herself studied under Godowsky. The
fact that she and her two children
were imprisoned nearly three years
in a concentration camp during the
Nazi regime gives the work she does
in the Inter-Allied Music Library an
especial significance for her.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

The section shown
(Photo by Byers)

The library, collection of scores has
made it possible for much of the new
music to be heard for the first time

throughout Germany. To date around
3,000 withdrawals of music scores are
listed in the library's records. One
thousand of these loans are of the
works of American composers,

Through frequent performances of
these compositions on radio programs
they are? reaching a wide listening
audience;

The’success of the library has been
so gratifying to Military Government
that’ branch libraries will be opened

12 F

at'an early date in Frankfurt, "Munich,
and Stuttgart, and in’ Duesseldorf and
Hamburg in the Britis Zone. Thesé
branches,will-bein. continuous. contact
with the parent library in Berlin, and
scores “Will* be™ exchanged « between
them. Musicians in the zone will thus
be enabled to examine many com-
positions. and. benefit more fully.

At the present time orchestras in
Laender throughout the US Zone have
found it very easy to obtain special
compositions, which they wish to
perform, very quickly, through the
cooperation of MG music officers and
the. Inter-Allied Music-Lending _Li-
brary. If Wiesbaden, for example,
wishes to perform Berezowsky's Con-
cert for Viola with Orchestra, the
music officer there telephones’ the
music officer’ at ICD, OMGUS, °re-
questing the score, which is borrowed
from the Lending Library and'promptly
forwarded.

'USIC | copyright laws are; fully

respected in/Germany.. Perform-
ance fees are, automatically. jcollect-
ed by the German Performance Rights
Society in all four zones. This So-
ciety, known as GEMA (formerly
STAGMA), is. affiliated with ASCAP
and other international copyright so-
cieties.

Before the library was officially
opened ICD decided to waive rental
fees for a time for all works, as an
experiment, in order ‘to learn by’actual
experience in chosen’ test cases'which
type of US music met with the great-
est interest in Germany and was of
the greatest benefit to German per-
formers and audiences.

Beginning with the opening of the
library, rental fees for works by Amer-
ican, British, French, and Russian com-
posers have been charged in accord-
ance with the schedule of rental fees
established by the German Music
Publishers Association (DMV) for rent-
al material of its own members rent-
ed to German performers.

US music made available for re-
orientation is. being  petformed
throughout Germany. 98 chamber-
music works, orchestral works and
one opera composed by 47 American
composers have had 374 performances
in all 4 zones of Germany during the
period January 1946 to 31 July 1947.
‘The 374 performances were held in
. 3 (Continued on page 14)

11 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 16 ---
Industrial Problems Reviewed

pg importance “of increasing coal
output “of ‘the° Ruhr and the
problém of raising German industrial
level so as to! fit ‘into an integrated
European recovery plan are’ receiving
considerable attention in American
press’ comment. Editorials“ also have
taken note of ‘the French view that
a revived German industry might
menace her security. Several papers
suggest that’ to allay such fear ‘the
40-year German disarmament and de-
militarization treaty, proposed by the
United States’ last “year,’‘might be
effected as a US, British, and French
Agreement.

‘The viewpoint frequently expressed
is that, if. a cooperative economic
rehabilitation program drawn up along
lines of the US proposals is to succeed,
the three major western-powers must
resolve differences as to Germany's
économie future without undue delay.

Washington. Post editorial .said, in
part: “It. is. absurd to think that we
are. giving -Germany,. prior, con-
sideration, But the fact remains that
the United. States is responsible .for
the administration of its own zones.in
Germany, It is our own. task .to. put
a prostrate Germany. back. on its, feet:
But:what we are aiming at under|the
Marshall Plan is the integration of
German resources in a ‘working
economy of Europe.

“Actually the experts in’ Paris are
at..work to achieve precisely ‘this
objective. To be sure, the political
future of Germany still remains to be
settled, and we agree with the French
that ideally this ought to have been
settled prior to any ‘cooperative
attempt to reconstruct Europe.

“However, the stumbling block in
this. respect: is the Soviet Union,
though there has never been a meet-
ing of minds on this problem among
the other Allies. The French could
help to promote such a meeting of
minds in several ways that would
insure their own security in respect

11 AUGUST 1947

of Germany. (They could. join. their
zone with ours, as-the British have
done: They could have a 40-year pact
with’ this. country, governing German
militarization. 1

"Such ‘actions would insure control

of Germany, and it.wasshown in the
years betwéen wars that it was’ the
atrophy »of Allied statesmanship: and
Allied ‘controls (and, of course, the
retirement of “America from Europe)
and /not secret -rearmament «that
accounted for the comeback: of san
armed Germany.
“Such gestures on the part of the
French would pave the way for an
overdue political settlement of the
Ruhr, the power-house of military
Germany. In the meantime, the new.
object in France’s and Europe's
interest should be to make the Ruhr
the power-house for a pacific and
progressive Europe.”

Commentator Barnet .Nover,, wrote
in, part: , “From.the, viewpoint, of
Europe's, over-all ,recovery, there _is,
very much.-to be said for.the new
German..directive. (US, policy,.state-
ment made public recently)... None-
theless, bearing France’s.deep-rooted.
fear. of a,powerful, Germany.in mind;
it is essential.that, France's views re-
garding the German, industrial level
be taken into: account.

“The French must be persuaded
anew that America’s basic aim is the
recovery of Europe as\a whole or at
least that part of it which is prepared
to join in‘a program of self-help. Such
a program will inevitably require that
greater use be made of Germany's in-
dustrial and mineral resources than
has been the case since V-E Day. This,
does not mean and cannot mean re-
storing anys: warmaking ca-
pacity.”

Hartford Courant: “France shies
away from increased German steel
production on which German power
has been built in the past. Never-
theless, German production of not

13

only steel<-bui
goods as well is
recovery. Therefore, that
must be increased, without at the
same time risking a future military
threat.

“There is no way to accomplish this
twin objective except through the
principle of the . Marshall . Plan—
namely, fundamental changes toward
the integration, of all. Europe's
economy. If the nations now struggl-
ing at Paris have the will, they can
find the way, through continued joint
control, toward that recovery of their
own economies that can come only
with the help. of German industry.
And the same will can achieve that
recovery without inviting the rebirth
of the German Army...

“The United States alone cannot
bail Europe out. It can only help those
who. help themselves, even if that
involyes pioneering mutual economic.
helpfulness.”

More CARE Packages

CARE has been authorized to
distribute seven new types of
packages including those for lard,
flour, household linen, knitting wool,
kosher food, baby food, and layette.
These packages will be priced’at $ 10,
éxcept for the flour and ard, which
will be sold for $4.

Previously, OMGUS has authorized
CARE to distribute a food package,
a blanket package, a cotton textile
package and a woolen textile package.
These packages may ordered from
CARE Inc., 50 Broad Street, New
York City, for $10. CARE has pre-
pared these new packages on the
basis of numerous requests by per-
sons desiring to help friends and
relatives by supplying critically short
items. :

‘More than 700,000 CARE packages
have been distributed in the US Zone
and the City of Berlin, Included in
this figure are over 30,000 “bonus”
packages donated by CARE for distri-
bution free to needy families selected
by ‘leading German private welfare
agencies. © ‘

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Problem of Uniform Laws

At the 23rd meeting of the Laender-
rat in Stuttgart on 5 August, General
Lucius D. (Clay, the Military Gover-
nor, spoke of the problém of uniform
legislation‘ among the Ldender of the
US, Zone, the need for trucks’ for
harvest collections, and the necessity
for immediate implementation ‘of ‘the
Land constitutions. The text of his
address follows. : :

INCE our’ last meeting I have ‘had

a-letter ‘from your. chairman
pointing’ out the difficulties which
you ‘have ‘expérienced: in obtaining
Military Government: approval’ ‘of
uniférm'‘laws. As’ I told’ you many
months ago, it is’ very difficult indeed
to distinguish between. a ‘law which
should be enatted by a Land and ‘one
whith should be approved by the
Ldenderrat to be promulgated in all
of the Laender. Z

Howevér, in examining the record,
I believe that we have been too
restrictive in respect to the approval
of laws which the’ Laenderrat thinks
should be uniform in the four Laen-
der. I think that is particularly true
since, the: Laenderrat now hag: the
advice of the Parliamentary, Advisory
Council, ,

We shall .reexamine | those laws
which have.been.disapproved with.
this. end in view. On -the other hand,
I shall.ask. the Laenderrat, in sending
further laws to us for approval,. -to
explain why they believe it is de-,
sirable, for uniformity..to be obtained
in. -the several, Laender..
making a decision with respect ta the
approval of a law we will have the
benefit:of the views which .led you to
propose it as a uniform law for. alt
of the Laender in the American Zone
of «Occupation.

‘WOULD like to refer to the always

pressing problem of food. Now that
the collection season is at hand, the
problem of transport , becomes ‘most
important. I think it necessary that in,
each of the Laender control be exer-,
cised aver, truck transportation to be
sure it is not used for less ‘essential
purposes and is available for, the
transport of food from the farms to.
the centers of collection, In. con-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Thus,: im

nection with the food ration, the bi-
zonal food and agriculture agency
does not believe its present stock
position adequate to permit a full
call-up df'the bread ration. However,
we believe that the necessity for the
¢all-up is urgent and ‘that the stock
position will permit it to be done,
although with great difficulty, There-
fore; the British. and American: Mili-
tary Governments have taken ‘the
responsibility to authorize the call-up.

I should like to refer once again
to: the. necessity for the Landtage.in
the several Laender to enact legis-
lation which willfully implement
their: constitutions. It has now been
seven months since the Landtage
were formed under the constitutions
and it seems to be most important
that the legislation which will make
the constitutions effective. be im-
plemented at the earliest possible
date.

HERE is one other matter about

which I should like to speak: Re-
cently a German public official, and
one occupying a rather prominent
position, charged the displaced per-
sohs’ with maintaining the black
market’ and with being a disorderly
gtoup within the United States Zone
of Occupation in Germany.

‘To’ me, such a charge makes no
sense at ail. You know, as well as I
do, ‘the ‘source of the black market.
For a Germain official not to accept
the résponsibility for the black market
operations conducted by the German
people and to blame it exclusively
om:the displaced: persons in the Amer-
icdn Zone is at least unfait and. in-
accurate, We will never attain a state
of tolerance and understanding with
inflammatory public statements of
this. kind. .

(Continued from page 12)
Music Library

the four zones of Germany (including
their Sectors in Berlin) as follows:
US Zone, 285; Soviet Zone, 77; British
Zone, seven; French Zone, five.

As of 31 July, 56 German performing
grganjzations gave 285 performances

14

of 89 different American chamber-
music and orchestral works of Ame-
rican composers in 27 cities of the US
Zone and US Sector of Berlin. Approx-
imately 20 English, 40 French and
30 Russian contemporary music works
have been .berformed in the UB. Zone
and US. Séctor’ of Berlin” since ‘May
1945.

A printed catalog of all American
works in the Library has been pub-
lished in June 1947; in addition, the
catalog contains biographical sketches
in German of 94 American composers,
In the near future, recording machines
with phonograph records of all avail-
able American Music will be distrib-
uted through ICD to the Interallied
Music Lending Library and its bran-
ches throughout Germany.

Besides. of introducing American
music to Germany in connection. with
its Reorientation Program, ICD is
sponsoring lectures by. leading Ame-
rican musicologists, conductors, ,.and
other American musicians, who are
using the American music materials
at the Interallied Music Lending Li-
brary to illustrate their lectures.

Cashing POW Credits

Military Payment Ordérs: and‘ Cer-
tificates of Credit are non-negotiable
but are paid promptly in the US Zone
at the local Land Central Bank
branches and in the British Zone at
thelocal branches of the Reichsbank,
Finance Division, OMGUS, announced.
It is emphasized that payment will be
made only in Reichsmarks and” that
those: ex-prisoners of war who. are
holding these certificates in hopes: of
receiving dollar payments will be
disappointed.

Former German prisoners of war
are advised not to send their Military
Payment Orders and Certifivates of
Credit to financial institutions in the
United Stdtes as only German banks
are authorized. to cash Military. Pay-
ment Orders and Certificates of Credit.

No arrangements have been made
as-yet for the settlement of Certifi-
cates: of Credit and Military: Payment
Orders held by heirs of deceased. pris-
oners of war. As soen as the nee:
essary procedures have been agreed
upon, a public announcement will be
made.

41 AUGUST 1947

--- Page 18 ---
(Continued, from. page 8)

Communications

import of needed supplies from. other
countries, and for. the settlement of
telecommunications accounts with
foreign administrations if, necessary.

Reorganization of the Reichspost in
the US Zone was accomplished ‘ona
progressive basis. In the early days
of the occupation, the US Zone was
apportioned into six administrative
areas known as Reichspost Districts
staffed by directorates of German
officials in an organization very similar
to the pre-occupation administration.
These, directorates were, under: the

direct ‘control, of the occupational
forces. In January 1946, a zonal
agency, , the, Senior, Directorate of

Communications, and. Posts, composed
of German. officials, was established in
Munich, under, the Laenderrat. to
operate .and administer Reichspost
activities in the US Zone. The Laender-
rat was in turn responsible to Military
Government for these, functions sub-
ject only to observation and inspec-
tion, by Communications Branch,
OMGUS, to insure that. US. and
quadripartite policies were carried out.

IOMMON policies were provided
by the Allied Communications
and Posts Committee of the ACA.
Subsequent to the economic amal-

gamation of,the.British and, US Zones,
the Senior Directorate was combined
with a similar agency in the British
Zoné in March 1947 to form the Main
Administration for Communications
and Posts located in Frankfurt’ which
is now responsible for the supervision
of ‘the ‘15 Reichspost’ districts in’ the
bizonal area.

The Potsdam Protocol provides for
the establishment of central agencies
fo administer Germany as a single
economic unit. The US proposal for
the formation of a central department
to administer postal and: telecommuni-
cations services on a uniform basis
throughout the occupied’ areas was
submitted to the appropriate quadri-
partite committees late, in: 1945. . To
date, agreement has not»been,reached
for the establishment of this agency,
but discussions. are continuing as to
its. structure, responsibilities, func-
tions, and, methods of control.

Much of the work which ‘should be
done by civilian agencies is now :per-
formed by the Allied Communications
and Posts Committee (ACPC), its three
subcommittees, and. four , working
parties.. This small group, of Allied
personnel is performing some of the
tasks formerly assigned to the Reichs-
post Ministry and other central agen-
cies in Berlin which employed more
than 2,000 administrators and ‘techni-
cal specialists in 1939; During the first

six months .of. 1947, a total-of 1,479
items appeared on the agenda of the
ACPC and its subordinate committees,
of which it was necessary to forward
only 12 disagreements’ to higher
authority for final decision, This figure
does not include hundreds of routine
administrative matters and requests
for information from foreign govern-
ments which are handled by. the
secretaries by mutual agreement of
the delegates.

IERTAIN responsibilities are a
function of the occupation and
will not be transferred to civil agen-
cies under current policies. These in-
clude ratification of international
agreements, determination of the level
of development in the communications
industry, inspection and observation
to ascertain that approved policies
are effected and all matters pertain-
ing to research and development.
However, a multitude of functions
may be delegated to a central depart-
ment when formed including negotia-
tions\and changes to services within
occupied Germany, certain questions
concerning international communica-
tions and changes in rates and stamp
designs. A central department would
do much to facilitate the formulation
and maintenance of common policies,
practices and procedures which are
essential to the efficient operation of
a national communications system.

Scenes in the Reichspost office in Berlin-Dahlem (US Sector). Stacks of newly-
arrived packages are shown on page 5. Cusiomers paying their telephone bills are
shown below.

(Photos by Byers)

i, wanes

Fi.

--- Page 19 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Change 2. to Title 15, Manpower
Administration,. AG 014.12, OMGUS,
15 May 1947,. Supersedes previous
Title 15 and Change 1. Text of new
title issued same date.

Delinquent Payrolls and Personnel

Rosters, AG 330.3 AGO, Hq EUCOM,
17 June 1947, Gives detailed in-
struction for preparing rosters.
;, Change 4 to Title 6, Public Health,
AG 014.12, OMGUS, 30. June 1947.
Supersedes Part 3, Preventative Med-
icine, of Change 3 to Title 6,

Corrigendum 1—Change 1 to Title 5,
Legal and Penal Administration, AG
014,12, OMGUS, 30 June 1947, Cor-
rects typographical errors.

Conservation of Solid Fuels,
AG_ .463.3..GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
1 July 1947.

Signal ‘SOP. No. 70, Signal Messenger
Service, Hq EUCOM, 3 July 1947.
Supersedes Signal SOP No. 70 of
18 March 1947,

Military Police on Military Duty
Trains, AG 322 PMG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 3 Jul 1947. Cites MP's re-
sponsibility for checking all US-em-
ployed personnel for proper clear-
ance to enter the Berlin and. Vienna,
areas.

Corrigendum 1—Change 1 to Title 3,
Political Activities (1 April 1947),
AG 014.12, OMGUS, 9 July 1947, Cor-
rects typographical errors.

Signal Messenger Service, SOP, Hq
EUCOM; 10.July 1947. Change No. 1
to Signal SOP No, 70, 3 July 1947.

Ordnance Specialist Training—In-
digenous Personnel, AG 353 ORD-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 10 July 1947. Gives de-

tailed information pertaning to the
selection of students and to the
courses of instruction.

Corrigendum 1—Change 1 to Title 1,
General Provisions, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 11 July 1947. Corrects typo-
graphical errors.

Circular No. 58, Hunting and Fishing
Policy, Hq EUCOM, 23 July 1947. Re-
Plates USFET Circular No. 11 of
46February 1947.

“Currency Exchange for Nonappro- .—

‘ priated Funds, AG 123.7,FIN-AGO, Hq

EUCOM, 23 July 1947. Substitutes for
paragraphs 4 and 5, USFET letter, AG
123.7 GAP-AGO, 27 November 1946.
. German Language Study by US Per-
sonnel in the Field, AG 230.437 (PO),
OMGUS, 25 July 1947. Lists the dates
for oral tests on German language
proficiency for those individuals com-
ing under the requirements of OMGUS
directives 28 March and 15 April 1947.

Furnishings for Clubs and Day
Rooms, AG 414 SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
25 July 1947, Gives substitution for
USFET letter. of 30 January 1947.

Amendment No. 2 to Military Gov-
ernment: Ordinance No. 2, “Military
Government Courts,” AG 010.6 (LD),
OMGUS, 25 July 1947. Cites Judge
Advocate General's Ruling that de-
pendents, visiting American and Allied
businessmen, and accredited mem-
bers of Allied Missions are not to
be tried by courts martial for vio-
lations of orders, circulars or other
directives of the Theater Commander.

Amendment No. 1 to Military Gov-
érnment Ordinance No. 1, “Crimes
and Offenses," AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS,
25 July 1947.

Circular No. 61, Hq EUCOM,
26. July 1947, Section I, Authorized
Allowances of Quartermaster Expend-
able Supplies, Section II, Assistance
for US Military Sources to Civilian
Agencies and Personnel, Section III,
Disposition of Effects and Section IV,
Occupation Expense Fiscal Policy.

General ‘Orders *No,.:61,

General Orders No. 30 and No. 33;
Section II, Organization of Legislation
Review Board, states that the functions
and responsibilities of this ‘Board will
be contained in a Staff Memorandum.
(Note below.)

Travel Authorization for German

Personnel, AG 200.4 (TD), OMGUS,
28 July 1947.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating ©
headquarters.

26 July 1947. Section.I, regcinds *

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests, L 21-2, L 21-3, L’ 21-4, L. 19-3.
and L 21-6, AGO 14.1 (SG), OMGUS,
30 July 1947. Cites Military Govern-
ment replies to the Laenderrat Re-
quests on Draft Law Concerning Re-
cission of Law for Prevention of
Abuse of Judicial Execution; Draft
Law Concerning Recission of Law on
Settlement of Old Debts; Draft Law
Concerning Recission of Law on Inter-
polation .of the Public Prosecutor in
Civil Cases; Draft Supplementary Law
of ... to the Law Concerning Punish-
ment of ‘National: Socialist Criminal
Acts, 15 June 1946 and Draft Amend-
ment to Supplementary Law to Law
Concerning Punishment of ational
Socialist Criminal. Acts. «

Staff Memorandum No. 38, Legis-
lation Review Board, OMGUS, 31 July
1947. Indicates the ‘scope of LRB re-
view and criteria to be applied, and
outlines the basic procedure to be
followed by agencies.-concerned with
legislation.

Advance Notice of Amendment to
Title 13 “Trade and Commerce," AG
010.6 (CO), OMGUS, 31 July 1947.
Gives amendments to OMGUS letter;
19 March 1947.

Jurisdiction Clarified °

Two recent amendments to Military
Government law clarify the situation
with respect to jurisdiction of MG
Courts over certain categories of per-
sons who might otherwise be sup-
posed to be subject to court-martial
jurisdiction. A recent ruling of the
Judge Advocate * eral declared
that dependents, siting American
and Allied businéssmen, and methbers ,
of Allied Missions would not be tried
by courts-martial, ;

Effective 22 July, Amendment No. 2
to. MG. Ordinance No.2 (Military:
Government . Courts) confirms this

‘ruling, while Amendment No. 1 -to

‘MG Ordinance No, 1 (Crimes and-'
Offenses) states that for violations ‘of
EUCOM. or ~USFET circulars thesi
persons will be’ subject* to, impriso!
ment not to efceed five years or a
fine of not morethan RM 100,000, or
both. In ‘no “case,” however, will the
punishment be. more severe than a
‘court-martial would impose fori 7a
similar offense, :

“DRUCKHAUS TENIPELHOF