--- Page 2 ---
NUMBER 101 / 14 JULY 1947

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
WALDECK

FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

FRANKENBE RG

BIEDEN-

opr MARBURG

ALSFELD

LAUTERBACH,
oees <
LAHNKREIS
32) FRIEDBERG
rex QBERTAUNUS|

NESBADEN,

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBERBISCH —
OFSHEIM

HEILBRONN

Luowieseu GACKWANG

LEONBERG

paeaty xk HEIOENHEIM

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

Gotton for Germany—Part of 8,000 bales of
cotton on the Bremen docks which have
been imported from the United States for
use in the Germany ecohomy. MG's concern
with the rehabilitation of the cotton manu-
facturies is the subject of the article on
page 2.
(Photo by BOWLDS, PIO, OMGUS)

INFORMATION

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Material for Cotton Plan for Germany
was furnished by the Textile and Consumer
Goods Section, Economics Division.

The Administration of Justice Branch,
Legal Division, submitted the facts used for
the article on New Role in MG Courts.

Germany Votes was prepared by Richard TABLE OF CONTE NTS

M. Scammon, Chief of the Elections and

Political Parties Branch, Civil Administration

Division. Mr. Scammon, a Detachment Issue No. 101 14 July 1947
MGO during the war, was Political Officer
in Wuerttemberg-Baden for the late Col. W.
W. Dawson from July 1945 to October 1946;
since that date he has been in Berlin in his Naw Rotean MG Courts (Cae ee ee 4
present office.

Cotton’ Plan for Gemmany.- 4... i ee

Mr. Richardson Bronson, IG Farben Con- Decartelizing IG Farben. . » - . . - ss ee 7
trol Officer for the US ot Decartelization Germany Votes Gs ne es a ae a
Branch, Economics Division, furnished the
material for Decartelizing IG Farben. In June MGR Title I (Third Installment) . . ..-. .. . dl
1945 Mr, Bronson was a member of the US
Group Control Council, the forerunner of Press and Radio Comments. . . . .... . . 18
OMGUS. He was loaned to IG Farben Con- < iB
trol Seizure in June 1945, and has been with ee ACO OS eee ee eee
them since that time. Official Instructions sje see ho no hed ore

NEXT WEEK

Issue 102, 21 July, of the Weekly Infor-
mation Bulletin is scheduling articles on the
international summer schools being held in
the US Zone, the control of insects by
use of DDT, and the youth parliament of
Stuttgart. The final installment of MGR Title I
also will appear in this number of the OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

magazine. ; CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OTTON is as important to Ger-

many right now as it is to Sena-
tor John Bankhead of Alabama, or
any US political leader from the mag-
nolia and cotton-picking belt. For in
the rehabilitation of Germany cotton
products can play a vital and im-
portant part, and have a significance
undreamed of in the days when Ger-
many's economy was built on her
supremacy in heavy industry and
chemicals.

Military Government's occupation
policy in Germany is to make the
country, if possible, self sufficient
through industries which cannot be
converted to war production. Obvious-
ly the production of cotton textiles
fits the recipe. The present world
shortage of textiles and the fact that
the United States is a cotton-export-
ing nation adds to the desirability of
increasing the output of finished cot-
ton goods in the zones of occupation.

The German textile plants in the
British and US Zones were around 25
percent destroyed during the war. At
present there are about 1200 textile
plants in the American Zone. In 1939
there were 14 million spindles in Ger-
many. Today, there are a maximum of
4,200,000 in the combined zones, with
the chance that in the next six months
three-fourths of a million additional
spindles may be rehabilitated.

Last winter's severe cold shut down
textile production almost completely,
but it is hoped no such situation will
curtail output during the coming win-
ter. Coal is being stockpiled to keep
the plants workable. The textile plants

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

in the US Zone are predominantly run
by hydro-electric power, and if the
rivers freeze as they did during the
past winter planned production sched-
ules cannot be met. From the point of
view of fuel consumption cotton pro-
ducts are much more practical for
Germany than synthetics—it requires
14 tons of coal for every ton of rayon.
The hydro-electric-run plants used in
cotton textile production here use
only two tons of coal for one ton of
finished goods. If, as is often the case,
the mill owns and operates its own
individual power plant, about four
tons of coal are required per ton of
finished goods.

The Economics Division of CMGUS
sees manifold advantages for high
cotton production. The German econ-
omy needs goods desperately—baby

“outfits, clothing, uniforms for doctors

and nurses, tire cords, sewing thread,
fire hose, conveyor belts, waddings,
bandages, twine, and fishing nets
among others. The German economy
also needs dollar credits to pay for
food imports. The export of highly
finished cotton goods is a partial
answer to the country’s most serious
problem.

IROM the point of view of the

United States, it is highly desir-
able to establish US cotton in this
market. American cotton has certain
disadvantages on the world markets.
Russia, India, and Brazil ship net
weight; the United States ships gross
weight, and its bales are considered
unwieldy and hard to handle. Our

2

cotton is not considered as cleanly
picked as cotton received from count-
ries where peasant labor is extremely
cheap. Cotton brokers in Bremen re-
port that Russian cotton, which they
received in rather small quantities be-
fore the war, was regarded as highly
desirable, because it was so clean.

Russia grows around three and a
half to four million bales of cotton a
year, mostly in the Soviet State of
Georgia. Almost all of it is used at
home, and grown by very crude
methods, but under the new five year
plan they expect to modernize and
greatly increase production.

RAZIL produces two and a half to
three million bales of cotton a
year, and Britain has brought some
Brazilian cotton into its zone.
American cotton brokers have long
fumed because cotton growers have
persisted in baling cotton in jute,
grown in India, instead of using cot-
ton itself. This may be changed as far
as cotton intended for the German
market is concerned. The suggestion
has been made that the textile indus-
try here manufacture cotton bagging
for wrapping. The drawback to such
a plan is the cost—burlap of the qual-
ity now used costs 16 cents per square
yard; cotton bagging which meets US
Department of Agriculture specific-
ations would cost 24 cents per square
yard in the US Zone. Textile mills
may by able to produce it more
cheaply.
The question of financing cotton im-
ported from the United States to the
British and American Zones has been

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 6 ---
(Photo by BYERS)

Financial and cotton experts in Berlin for discussions with British and US Military
Government officials relative to proposed general plan for the importation, process-
ing, financing, and sale of cotton and textiles in the joint US/UK Zones. Left to right:
Carl F. Bartz, American Cotton Supply Corporation, Dallas; B. J. Williams, Pope
Williams Company, New Orleans; Paul Cleveland, War Department Civil Affairs
Division; Sydnon Oden, Anderson Clayton Company, Houston; August Maffry, Export-
Import Bank; Henry Koch, State Department; iH. C. Schuebeler, European Agent G. H.

studied recently by a group of cotton
experts from the United States who
toured the zone inspecting mills and
processing methods, and confering
with MG officials. The mission in-

cluded Colonel Paul Cleveland, of the
War Department Civil Affairs Division;
Henry Koch, of the State Department;
Julius Schnitzer, from the Department
of Commerce; August Maffry and
George Galloway, both of the Import-
Export Bank; Benjamin J. Williams,
of the Pope Williams Company in
New Orleans; Sydnon Oden of the
Anderson, Clayton Company, Houston,
Texas; Carl F. Bartz of the American
Cotton Supply Corporation, in Dallas,
Texas; and H.C. Schuebeler, G. H. Mc-
Fadden & Bros.

HESE experts reached an agree-

ment with representatives of Brit-
ish and US Military Governments,
which provides for setting up machin-
ery to finance importation, processing,
and sale of cotton and textiles in the
British and US Zones. :

This plan (which must be approved
by the American Cotton Supply Cor-
poration and the American Export-Im-
port Bank) provides for setting up the
American Cotton Supply Corporation
of New York, of which any shipper
of American cotton, who is a US re-
sident, can become a member. The
corporation will accept drafts for cot-
ton deliveries to the joint British-
American areas in Germany at Bre-
men or other German ports, if the im-
port has been authorized by the Joint
Export-Import Agency at Minden. Ger-

14 JULY 1947

McFadden & Bros.; Julius Schnitzer, Department of Commerce.

man mill operators in the two zones
will arrange for imports from the
corporation through agents, after they
have received the license from the
JEIA.

The drafts which will be accepted
by the American Cotton Supply Cor-
poration will be for nine months, un-
less earlier payment is made and the
Joint Export-Import Agency agrees to
put the American Cotton Supply Cor-
poration in funds to meet the draft.

The draft will be payable in dollars,
although sales may be made in any
currency acceptable to the JEIA. Sales
will also be arranged as much as pos-
sible through normal commercial chan-
nels, Colonel Cleveland said, but for
the benefit of the Joint Export-Import
Agency.

The American Export-Import Bank
has given a commitment to discount
or purchase directly or through a
shipper's home bank drafts up to the
amount of $ 19,000,000 outstanding at
any one time. The yearly interest rate
charged by the Export-Import Bank
will be two and a half percent and
additional charges will be made to
cover the expenses of the American
Cotton Supply Company. Initially the

3

charge should not exceed three-fourths
of one percent.

REAT flexibility of operation will

be given the Joint Export-Import
Agency. through this method of financ-
ing. Sole security for the draft will be
the general undertaking of the Agency
to put the American Cotton Supply
Corporation in funds to pay drafts at
maturity. At the same time no specific
lien or title will be kept on the cotton
or textiles manufactured from this cot-
ton, by the American Cotton Supply
Corporation.

It is anticipated that the first cotton
tobe shipped under this agreement
will reach Germany this fall, probably
in October.

The all-important question of
whether this cotton will be brought in
at American price, or American eX-
port price has not yet been settled.
Cotton heretofore brought to Germany
came at the American price (the
average price at ten markets on the
day the cotton moved to port). Ameri-
can export price would be about four
and a half cents less, although, of
course, the fluctuating market in cot-
ton is one of the planning difficulties
of any exact long-range program.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
=

/ a

'N those first months after guns

ceased firing in Germany, the job
of the Military Government courts
was protecting the occupation. Se-
curity was their watchword and their
consideration of cases was governed
by that viewpoint.

But today, MG courts are playing
a new role, Acting more as civil than
military courts, they now have the
thoughtful task of impressing upon
the German people the doctrine of the
rights and responsibilities of the in-
dividual,

‘For too long, the people of Germany
have considered courts as a type of
paternal organization guided by the
grace of the sovereign. They did not
consider the law as their law giving
them rights and responsibilities. The
US doctrine that law is the exercise
of the sovereignty of the people
establishing rights and responsibilities
is still generally unknown to them.
MG officials see in the new role of
the courts a way to demonstrate this
concept.

It is also an opportunity to show
the German people that the Laender
constitutions they have drawn up are
full of meaning. The democratic
rights and privileges stated in the
constitutions should to be protected
by the MG courts, and justice should
be meted out to all persons with
these democratic principles always in
mind.

Accomplishing this new task with
effectiveness requires time. Although
burdened with a great number of
cases, the judges nevertheless must
give studied consideration to each
case and they have had difficulty in
treating each one with the study
required. Present trends indicate that
the number of cases is increasing
rather than decreasing. In 1946, there
were a total of 159,536 cases tried. In

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

CEO
M (7 (OURTS

the first four months of 1947 there
were 48,197 cases brought before the
Military Government courts, as
compared with 47,088 cases in the
first four months of 1946. ;

T will be necessary, therefore, to

reduce the number of cases coming
before the MG courts. The courts
should not be burdened with trivial
cases and technical violations of the
law when the interest of Military
Government and public order is not
involved. Some cases could now be
heard by German courts and methods
of effectuating their transference are
under consideration.

Cases which might be transferred
include minor thefts, lack of proper
identification, and cases involving
ordinary police problems. As a
general policy, cases should not be
transferred from MG to German
courts where the accused is before
the MG court because of his personal
status, such as being a UN national.
Land Directors should be given
discretion in the matter of determining
which cases falling within these
general classifications are to be trans-
ferred from one type of court to
another. Any arrangement for a
transfer of such cases is purely
administrative and will create no
tight in an accused to have his case
tried in one court or another. The
determination of the court to try the
case will remain in Military Govern-
ment. As a general rule, however,
cases involving violations of German
law by Germans should always be
tried in German courts.

A reduction in the number of cases
and efficiency in their handling also
may be effected through closer
cooperation with the Constabulary
and the Provost Marshal. Members of
the Legal Division have taken part in
conferences with the Constabulary

4

giving information talks on such
subjects as arrest and the preparation
of cases for trial. Good investigation
and accumulation of relevant evidence
and its proper presentation saves
much time when the case comes to
trial.

When a case comes before a court
in the United States, the US judge
is the least informed person as to
the facts of that case. Under conti-
nental law the judge is the most
informed person and must know in
advance the evidence to be in-
troduced so he. can interrogate the
accused intelligently, for under conti-
nental law the judge examines the
witnesses, Procedure in MG courts has

combined these two systems. But
since the German lawyers are
unaccustomed to our _ procedure

whereby the lawyer conducts the
presentation of the evidence, an MG
court judge must be alert to see that
the rights of an accused are protected.

ILITARY Government has three

types of courts in which to try
its cases: the Summary courts, with
one judge who has power to impose
sentence of one year or less and fines
not in excess of RM 10,000; the In-
termediate courts, with one to three
judges, who can impose any lawful
sentence except death or imprison-
ment not in excess of 10 years or
RM 100,000; and General courts, with
three or more judges, which may
impose any sentence including the
death sentence except that any death
sentence must be confirmed by the
Commander-in-Chief, European Com-
mand, or his designee. All cases are
subject to review by the Reviewing
Authority. In the US Zone and Berlin
Sector there are a total of 216 Sum-
mary, 38 Intermediate, and 11 General
MG courts.

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 8 ---
In addition, there is one clemency
board in each of the Laender, plus
the OMGUS Clemency Board, whose
jurisdiction embraces the entire US
Zone of Occupation. The latter has
heard 363 cases in 11 sessions.
Certain cases were specifically re-
ferred to it by MG legal officers. The
largest number of cases (174) have
been weapons cases; while the second
highest in number (64) have involved
Fragebogen problems.

EAPONS cases are numerous but
W usually involve technical viola-
tions having no sinister motive. Many
farmers and hunters hid guns for
their own use and did not surrender
them in 1945. The original guide set
for sentence in weapons cases was
severe—10 years for unlawful posses-
sion, Large numbers of persons con-
victed under this law now are appear-
ing before clemency boards.

As MG courts move toward their -

goal of increasing the  respon-
sibilities of the German authorities
they see a need for indoctrinating
American concepts into the minds of
those Germans charged with the ad-
ministration of justice. German pro-
secutors versed in the American
approach and procedure are very
scarce. One Legal Officer has ar-
ranged for young, promising Germans
to work with American prosecutors
and later as prosecutors before MG
courts. Watching the procedure in
the MG courts, such “trainees” are
gaining invaluable experience for
later work in their own German
courts, Education of German lawyers
and law students is a long process
and under present handicaps is very
difficult.

One of the most effective ways of
educating the Germans in our concept
of democratic justice is through the
MG courts, That is one of the main
teasons why each of these courts
should be zealous to see that those

concepts are followed in the consi-.

deration of cases before them.

(ARMY SIGNAL CORPS photos)
MG Court in Frankfurt. (Below) A
view of the MG court room at the
Military Government building, Nu-
remberg. Today, MG Courts are acting
more as civil than military courts.

14 JULY 1947

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
(Photos by ILLUS; KEYSTONE VIEW)

Friedrich Bayer and Company, Lever-
kusen, was one of the two most
powerful chemical firms in Germany.
It pooled its assets with another
company in Ludwigshafen—and this
was the beginning of IG Farben,
although not until the merger of nine
firms in 1925 was the present IG born.
This, however, was the parent plant.
(below) Some of the 4 directors of the
IG Farben concerns. Geheimrat Her-
mann Schmitz was president of the
board of directors (Vorstand) of
Farben; Georg von Schnitzler was
commercial director of the division
which controlled all dye-stuffs, com-
mercial chemicals, and pharmaceu-
ticals; Dr. Fritz ter Meer, an outstand-
ing scientist, was chief of the technical
board of the Vorstand. All these men
pictured—once so powerful in IG
Farben—are awaiting trial,

--- Page 10 ---
IG FARBEN

VERYBODY is afraid of IG Farben.

American congressmen who listen-
ed to the Military Affairs Committee
hearings on the convolutions of the
Farben empire, plain American citi-
zens who read of it and shivered a
little over their morning coffee, GIs
who look at ruined buildings in
shattered Europe, all think of Farben
as some monstrous evil that spread
like the Black Death.

This reaction is one which the
Allied Military Governments consider
fully justified. The job of deactivating
Farben is one of the most important
MG undertakings in the US Zone.

Without Farben, Germany could not
have waged war. Not only did 1G fur-
nish Germany with the tools of de-
struction, but it constituted one of the
Nazi's most effective weapons of eco-
nomic and political warfare against
the other nations of the world. So
tremendous and complex were its oper-
ations that their full significance and
scope may never be known. In anti-
cipation of Allied victory thousands
of Farben's secrets went underground
along with other German resources
to “lay the foundation for World War
Ill; and thousands of its important
files were destroyed just before they
could be captured by Allied troops.

Officials of IG Farbenindustrie started
planning for reconstruction from the
moment a realistic analysis showed
them the inevitability of defeat in the
war. Farben had always prided itself
on outwitting governments.

In May 1945 when all the leading
officials of IG were detained for inter-
rogation, a letter from Max Ilgner
(key Farben official and nephew of
Dr. Hermann Schmitz, chairman of the
IG managing board), was intercepted
by US authorities. Ilgner wrote to two
of his associates in the Farben central
finance department. He instructed
them to keep in as close touch as pos-
sible with each other and with other
Farben leaders. He predicted that the

14 JULY 1947

American authorities would eventually
permit resumption of IG operations
and stressed the need of keeping the
organization alive in expectation of
this development.

[AR more serious and dangerous

moves to keep IG Farben’s inter-
national inter-connections have come
to light through the alterness of the
American Military Intelligence chan-
nels, and have been thwarted.

One problem faced by the quadri-
partite control authority is to keep
those Farben plants in operation which
are necessary to the German eco-
nomy, while at the same time destroy-
ing the capacity of the Farben organi-
zation to reassemble itself as a threat
to the peace of the world at any
future time. The US IG Farben Control
officer is fully aware that his job is
not only to dismember Farben now,
but to make it impossible for Farben
to rise again.

It is interesting to note that approxi-
mately 58.55 percent of the properties
actually a part of the former IG Far-
ben ownership were located in the
Soviet Zone, that approximately 20.20
percent were in the French Zone,
11.50 percent in the British Zone, and
9.75 percent in the US Zone. How-
ever, IG Farben had extensive inter-
ests through “participations” in other
enterprises, not to mention invest-
ments throughout Germany and the
world, so that actually, in the US Zone,
the percentage represented by the US
Zone is far greater than 9.75 percent.

What, exactly, has been done?

Mr. Richardson Bronson, the present
US IG Farben Control Officer says,
“At the present time, IG Farben, as
such, does not exist, nor does it own
or operate any property. All of the
plants formerly owned by it in the
US Zone, which have been or are to
be retained as necessary to the Ger-
man economy, are under the admini-
stration of Military Government, and
no longer may be classed and con-
sidered as IG Farben plants. In six

7

months, IG Farben will be remembered
as only a bad dream.”

HE United States led in taking

active stepsin breaking up1IG Farben.
Under General Order No. 2, issued on
5 July 1945, all IG Farben properties
and assets in the US Zone were
seized. Col. Edwin S. Pillsbury was
appointed Control Officer by General
Clay. Col. Pillsbury delegated author-
ity to Sub-Control Officers to take
charge of the various properties
throughout the zone, and a staff was
built up to carry on the administra-
tion. Two weeks later the French
followed suit, then the Russian a
month later, and finally the British in
November.

The next step in the dissection of
IG Farben was the promulgation of
Control Council Law No. 9 which pro-
vided quadripartitely that all assets
owned or controlled by IG Farben in
Germany were vested in the Control
Council. Four Control Officers were
provided for by the Law, one for each
zone, who became the quadripartite
IG Farben Control Committee. Each
Officer became responsible for the
Farben assets in his respective zone.
The Farben assets outside of Germany
are provided for under Control Coun-
cil Law No. 5, which vested in the
German External Property Commission
the title to all German assets outside
of Germany. Within each country,
however, different administration has
been adopted. This is a matter out-
side the jurisdiction of the four IG
Farben Control Officers.

'NDER Law No. 9, the IG Farben

Control Committee has certain
definite objectives to be accomplished:
to make properties available for re-
parations and for destruction as war
potential; dispersion of ownership of
the remaining properties and assets;
control of research and production in
the various operating properties; and
the termination of all cartel relation-
ships. These various objectives have
been accomplished in each zone,
dependent upon the existing admini-
stration for such over-all objectives
as applicable to German industry. In
the US Zone, coordination has been
maintained with the US represent-

WFEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN,

--- Page 11 ---
atives of the Reparations Directorate;
with the agency responsible for the
destruction of the war potential; with
the group responsible for control of
research; and _with the Industry
Branch of the Economics Division res-
ponsible for the control of production
in the US Zone. In each instance, the
Farben properties are considered as
part of the over-all problem, subject
to the fact that Farben, to a substan-
tial degree, is treated as an individual
problem in accordance with Control
Council Law No. 9.

Many Farben plants or elements of
plants have been designated for re-
parations; many having an intrinsic
war potential have been destroyed.

ERTAIN plants and properties are

necessary for the German economy,
and these are being retained but are
being established as independent eco-
nomic units. In the US Zone approxi-
mately 50 of such economic units
have, in fact, been established, and
throughout the four zones it is ex-
pected that approximately 200 of the

former Farben properties will be estab-
lished as independent units.

In the US Zone, the approximately
50 properties which US Military Gov-
ernment has considered necessary
for retention and for operation are
now separate independent economic
units under the control of a separate
trustee for each appointed by the US
IG Farben Control Officer, following
nominations made by the Minister-
President of the Land in which each
plant is located. For the last year and
a half, all of the properties were under
the control of Property Control Branch
of Finance Division, but now have
swung back for their administration
and control to the IG Farben Control
Office. In order to keep the appoint-
ment of the trustees from becoming
political selections, all nominations for
trustees are of men who were for-
merly connected with the plant. The
trustee cannot have been a key Far-
ben man nor can he have had an
objectionable political background.

As the plants are set up, new names
have been adopted for most of them
as a psychological program to destroy

the Farben idea and the Farben com-
plex, and actually to establish an exist-
ence independent of the Farben back-
ground. The only exceptions provided
for to. date are uses of the former
names when they are sufficiently apart

from the Farben background and
history that they are considered
acceptable.

The trustee runs the plant and en-
gages in normal manufacture; but no
article may “constitute an intrinsic
war potential.” If the trustee decides
he wants to extend the business, he
can't do it without MG approval. The
trustee uses Farben patents; can ob-
tain credits on commercial loans, pro-
vided the term of the loan doesn't
exceed a year. He can enter into
trade agreements—for. one year
only. With the consent of the IG
Farben Control Officer he can dis-
charge a mortgage, open and close a
bank account, ‘acquire fixed assets,
and delegate part of his duties to a
third party. He can even use certain
trade mark or trade names formerly
belonging to Farben, but this requires
express approval of the Control Of-
ficer. He can conduct litigation in his
own name as trustee.

Dr. Max Ilgner talking to a friend on board a plane. Dr. Ilgner built up a world-
wide spy ring for IG Farken's economic espionage. Today he is behind bars at
(Photo from DEUTSCHER VERLAG)

MONG the things the trustee

can't do are: lease any property of
the enterprise for a period of more than
a year, give a mortgage on any of
the real estate of the enterprise, or
place a charge on any of its fixed
assets, such as machinery or equip-
ment.

Nuremberg awaiting trial.

Research by IG scientists is re-
garded with great wariness by the IG
Farben Control Offices. No one wants
to muzzle legitimate ‘scientific experi-
mentation which might result in great
peacetime benefits to Germany and
the rest of the world. On the other
hand, the lurking suspicion persists
that skilled men of fanatic national-
istic loyalties might secretly carry
on research which could menace the
structure MG is trying to rebuild in
Germany. Therefore rigid controls of
research in IG establishments in the
US Zone have been put into effect.

One of the main difficulties faced
by Farben Control Officers who are
charged with destroying this great
combine is the deep loyalty IG em-
ployees felt for the Corporation, Far-

(Continued to page 16}

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 12 ---
g00-——

ITH the balloting in the three

French Zone states on 17 May
the election of German representative
bodies in all areas of Germany is now
complete. Without any prior collec-
tive decision by the Allies, the elec-
tions of these Landtage, or state legis-
latures, have almost themselves de-
limited the boundaries of the future
German states — five in the Soviet
Zone, four in the British and American,
three in the French. In all, 16 states
have now chosen legislative bodies;
with the addition of Berlin, whose
status as city, state, or zone remains
unsettled, each of the 17 major politi-
cal sub-divisions of Germany now has
an elected body as the respresentative,
of its citizens. {

These 17 sub-divisions (now all popu-
larly called Laender with the excep-
tion of Berlin and the Hansestadt Ham-
burg) vary greatly in population—rang-
ing from half-a-million in Land Bremen
to upwards of 12 million in Land
North Rhine-Westphalia—and differ
in physical size, for Berlin, Hamburg,
and Bremen are small-area metro-
politan districts. Despite these vari-
ations, there are remarkable likenesses

14 JULY 1947

By Richard M. Scammon

in the various representative bodies
elected. Excepting the three urban
areas, all are labelled “Landtag;" all
are fairly uniform in size, the differ-
ence between the 60 delegates in the
smallest Landtag, that of South Baden,
and the 216 in the largest, North
Rhine-Westphalia, being considerably
less than the American range—35 in
Delaware to 443 in New Hampshire.

LL 17 legislatures were elected

within a seven months’ period of
time (13 October 1946 to 17 May 1947);
all were elected on the basis of po-
litical conflict between political parties;
all were elected by systems of propor-
tional voting, though these systems
were somewhat modified in the British
Zone and in Bremen. While the special
circumstances of the Soviet Zone and
the elimination of the Social-Democrats
there made the political picture in
Eastern Germany somewhat different
from that in the three western zones
of occupation, voters for all these
legislative bodies seemed to be inter-
ested in the same general over-all pro-
blems: economic improvement (food,
clothing, shelter), expellees, dismantl-

9

ing of plants, land reform, the future
of Germany. In none of the election
contests was there much stress on
purely local questions; rather the
tendency was to highlight broad policy
and general approaches to public pro-
blems.

Among the various parties contest-
ing the elections the most important
were the Social-Democrats, the Chris-
tian Democrats, the Communists, and
the group of moderate parties labelled
“Democratic’ (Liberal Democrats, Free
Democrats, Democratic Peoples’ party,
and so forth). The first, the SPD, under
the leadership of Dr. Kurt Schumacher,
is a well-organized moderate socialist
party based primarily on the organized
worker,

IHE Christian Democrats are not,

like the SPD, a single political
party with a recognized Germany-wide
ieadership; rather the various Christian
Democratic and Christian Social parties
form a sort of loose federation, each
state organization having complete
autonomy. Under these circumstances
it is difficult to set down a specific
program or to identify a leader, within
various local groups of the Christian
Democrats there are wide variations
of policy under numbers of different
leaders. Thus the CDU in Berlin, with
Jakob Kaiser as its leader, is a fairly
progressive group with strong cen-
tralist. tendencies; alternatively, the
French Zone parties affiliated with the
CDU tend to be very conservative in
their social and economic policy and
to be federalist or even autonomous
in their ideas of the future structure
of German government. Broadly speak-
ing, wherever it may be found, the
CDU is based on the farmers, the
church-minded voter (especially Catho-
lic), and the more conservative ele-
ments in the towns and cities,

The so-called “Democratic" parties
are even harder to classify, Like the
CDU, they form a loose federation,
with each state organization having
an independent status. Unlike the CDU,
they do not have even the unifying
force of the churches to keep a meas-
ure of uniformity in their policy. In
some states, notably Wuerttemberg-
Baden, the Democrats are a socially-
minded, progressive force; in others
they tend to go even further to the
tight than the CDU. In almost all areas
the Democrats tend to be a party which

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
finds its strength in the larger towns
and cities, especially with middle-class
and professional people. Having neither
the church (CDU), nor the organized
working class (SPD, KPD) on
which to base their “apparatus,” the
Democrats are much less well-
organized than the other parties and
their membership figures are the lowest
-of all the major party organizations.

S for the Communists, (KPD), they

, are at one and the same time the
most active and the least effective of
the major parties. Though theirmember-
ship is numerous and constantly en-
gaged in political -work-meetings,
parades, demonstrations—the result
of these efforts has not been very en-
couraging. Throughout the western
zones the percentage of Communist
votes goes above 10 only in the larger
industrial cities such as Mannheim,
in industrial suburbs (as.in Frankfurt),
and in the complex of industry in the
Ruhr area. Though the Communists in
the western zones are based largely
on the industrial worker, they have
made strenuous efforts to enlist support
from other elements as well—middle-
class, young people, farmers, “new
citizens’*— all these groups have been
the aim of specially-devised Commu-
nist propaganda.

While these efforts to secure sup-
port from non-industrial working
class groups have had _ consider-
able success in other countries in
Western Europe (in France, Belgium,
the Netherlands, and in the Scandi-
navian countries local Communist
parties have registered huge gains in
post-war elections), they have had
little success in western Germany. In
the Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern area
(Wahlkreis 31 in pre-Hitler days), the
KPD polled nine percent of the total
valid vote in Landtag elections in the
US and French Zones into which it is
now divided. In the three Reichstag
elections of 1932—1933, the Commu-
nists polled 11.0, 14.5, and 9.2 percent,
getting more support in the March
1933 voting, in which they were virtu-
ally outlawed as a party, than they
have today.

In northern Germany, in Schleswig-
Holstein, a ‘similar example may be
cited. In this area (Wahlkreis 13 for
pre-Hitler Reichstag voting), the 1932
to 1933 KPD vote of 10.7, 13.3, and

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

10.7 percent fell to 4.5 percent in last
April's Landtag balloting. In the whole
of Bavaria “east of the Rhine” the
Communists polled 8.0 percent in the
July 1932 Reichstag voting, but drop-
ped to 6.1 in the December 1946 Land-
tag elections. In Hamburg, a strong
point of German Communism and
home of the late party leader and
Presidential candidate in 1932, Ernst
Thaelmann, the KPD polled 17.7, 21.9,
and 17.6 percent in the 1932—1933
Reichstag elections, but fell to 10.4 in
last October's election of a Hamburg
council. 1

‘VEN in Berlin's city council elec-

tions in October 1946 the SED,
despite its allegations to be the “unit-
ed" socialist party, polled but two-
thirds of the pre-Hitler Communist
vote. Outside Bertlin, in the Soviet
zone proper, the SED (Socialist Unity
party) did well, but it has a special
character as a “government’ party
which makes difficult any comparisons
with the KPD, its western zone sister
party. The Social-Democrats aie not
authorized in the Soviet Zone and the
two competitors of the SED, the Chris-
tian Democrats and the Liberal-
Democrats, operate on a limited scale
and as a quasi-"loyal opposition.”

As among the major geographical
areas.of western Germany the lines of
political cleavage indicated in this
seven months’ series of Landtag elec-
tions is about as might be expected
from the economic and religious char-
acter of the various Laender. In the
far south, in Bavaria, South Baden,
and South Wuerttemberg, the strong
Catholic feeling of the population and
its predominantly rural status ensured
a clear Christian Democratic majority.
In Bavaria the CDU holds 104 seats in
a Landtag of 180, in South Baden 34
out of 60, in South Wuerttemberg 34
out of 62. In Bavaria the Social-Demo-
crats are the major competitors of the
CDU, the SPD polling heaviest in such
industrial centers as Munich, Augs-
burg, and Nuremberg, but in the two
French Zone states the Democrats ran
a very good third, especially in South
Wuerttémberg.

HE large Catholic population of the
southern Rhineland nearly gave
the CDU aclear majority in the Rhein-
land-Pfalz Landtag as well as in the
southern Laender, but heavy voting

10

for the SPD in the larger cities in the
Pfalz and Rheinhesse (Kaiserslautern,
Ludwigshafen, Frankenthal, Worms)
cut down the CDU seats in the legis-
lature to 47 out of 100, with 34 Social-
Democrats, 11 Democrats, and eight
Communists filling out the total.

HE four states running north-south

from Bremen to the French-US
zonal boundary (Lower Saxony, North
Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, and Wuert-
temberg-Baden) formed a fairly defin-
able pattern: wherever there were
large concentrations of Catholic voters,
tural or urban, the CDU obtained a
heavy vote; in non-Catholic rural areas
the CDU tended to be the largest-
party, with opposition from the SPD,
save in those districts in which one of
the other non-Marxist parties became
the main representative of anti-social-
ist opinion. This was particularly true
in Lower Saxony (where the NLP, o:
Lower Saxon State party, has emerged
as a party of protestant rural elemenis)
and in North Rhine-Westphalia, where

. the CDU and the Democrats (in this

state called “Free Democrats") formed
an election alliance.

The Social-Democrats carried almost
all the cities in these four states, ex-
cépting only those largely Catholic in
teligious feeling or those with special
interests (such as the university city
of Heidelberg), and heavy Communist
voting was confined to the industrial
centers. The various Democratic par-
ties had varying luck in these states,
their best showing coming in Wuert-
temberg-Baden where they won nearly
one-fifth of the Landtag seats.

It is typical of the political contest
in this four-state area that in no one
of these Laender did any single poli-
tical party win a clear, over-all major-
ity of the seats in a Landtag. In Pro-
testant Lower Saxony and Hesse the
Social-Democrats are the plurality
party (65 out of 149 in Lower Saxony,
38 out of 90 in Hesse), but the CDU is
a strong second alone in Hesse and
nearly equals the strength of the SPD
in Lower Saxony with the addition of
‘the NLP seats. In both states the addi-
tion of the Democrats to the CDU (plus
the NLP in Lower Saxony) gives the
anti-SPDers actually more members
than those of Dr. Schumacher's organi-
‘zation, though an SPD-Communist co-

(Continued to page 14)

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 14 ---
ART 4 deals with the “Functional

Organization of Military Govern-
ment” and in Section A, relates in de-
tail the responsibilities of War and
State Departments. The State Depart-
ment formulates governmental policy
with regard to US participation in
the occupation and government of
occupied areas, and the War Depart-
ment executes and administers that
policy. For proper coordination of
policy the State Department has coop-
erated with the War Department in
the establishment in Washington of
the State-War-Navy Coordination
Committee (hereafter referred to as
SWNCC) under chairmanship of the
State Department.

14 JULY 1947

SWNCC is responsible for the co-
ordination of US policy with respect
to the government of occupied areas
and for its communication through
appropriate channels. to US represen-
tatives in the field. It discharges its
responsibilites for coordination of
US policy through the Directorate of
Occupied Areas. The Directorate is
headed by an official of the State De-
partment and performs the following
duties: :

a. Coordinates and expedites the
work of the State, War and Navy De-
partments and, where appropriate,
consults with other interested Depart-
ments and Agencies in order to de-
velop US policy for such occupied
areas;

11

Third Installment

b. Receives communications from
the field involving policy matters and
transmits US policy through appro-
priate military channels for imple-
mentation;

c. Creates such temporary or per-
manent subcommittees of SWNCC to
facilitate the development of US poli-
cy in occupied areas.

HE Chief, Civil Affairs Division,

War Department Special Staff,
formulates policy, prepares plans, and
takes action in coordination with
other War Department agencies, other
agencies of the Government, and in-
ternational or voluntary relief and
welfare agencies on civil affairs/MG
matters, including war crimes. He in-
sures that the Secretary of War, the
Chief of Staff, and interested staff
divisions are properly advised on civil
affairs/MG matters.

The basic policy documents govern-
ing the machinery of the Allied
Control Authority for Germany is the
agreement set forth by the European
Advisory Commission, 14 November
1944, as amended 1 May 1945, This
basic policy was agreed to by the
United States of America, the United
Kingdam, the USSR and France (see
MGR 23—55, MGR 23—56 and MGR
23—57 all published 5 June 1945).

Supreme authority in Germany is
exercised, on instructions from their
respective governments, by the sev-
eral Commanders-in-Chief of the
Armed Forces of the United States, the
United Kingdom, the USSR and France,
each in his own zone of occupation,
and also jointly, in matters affecting
Germany as a whole in their capacity
as members of the Control Council.
Action taken by the Control Council
affecting Military Government in the
US Zone is published in these Regula-
tions (Parts 1 and 2, Title 23, MGR).

The Coordinating Committee is com-
posed of the Deputy Military Govern-
ors of the four zones of occupation
acting as the representatives of each
of the Commanders-in-Chief. Actions
affecting Military Government in the
US Zone are implemented by direc-
tives to the field and, where continuing

effect on MG administration, are in-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
corporated as revisions of MG Regu-
lations (see MGR 1—417).

N Allied Secretariat, composed of

the four national secretaries, is
responsible for the agenda and min-
utes of the Control Council and the
Coordinating Committee, translation of
papers, issuance of decisions of the
Control Council and the Coordinating
Committee, and official contacts with
foreign military missions accredited to
the Control Council. It acts as the
channel of communication of the Con-
trol Council and Coordinating Com-
mittee in all matters presented by the
Control Staff and other agencies.

Ten quadripartite directorates, re-
ferred to collectively as the Control
Staff Directorates, serve under the
Coordinating Committee as functional
specialists, preparing laws, directives,
etc. Chairmanship in the Coordinating
Committee, the Directorates, and in
the Secretariat rotates in accordance
with the nationality of the chairman
of the Control Council for the period
of one calendar month.

The Control Council has estab-
lished an Administrative Bureau,
composed of a representative of each
of the occupying powers, to provide
the ACA with the necessary security
guard and with services for the proper
offices. This Bureau is headed and
organized by the US element and
functions directly under the US Sec-
retary, ACA.

The Inter-Allied administration of
the Greater Berlin Area is the respon-
sibility of the Allied Kommandatura
Berlin. It is immediately subordinate
in the chain of command to ACA.
The basic agreement providing for
quadripartite government in _ the
Greater Berlin area is contained in
Article .7 of the European Advisory
Commission Agreement on Control
Machinery in Germany, 14 November
1944, amended 1 May 1945. A re-
statement of this policy was made on
5 June 1945 (see MGR 23—55). There
are three successively higher levels
of command at the Allied Kommanda-
tura Berlin. Chairmanship at each
level of the Kommandatura rotates
monthly in accordance with the na-
tionality of the Commandant of the
Allied Kommandatura who serves as
chairman during a particular calendar
month.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Assistant to the Deputy Mili-
tary Governor represents the US
Government as US Commandant of
the Kommandatura. The Director,
OMG Berlin Sector, is the US Deputy
Commandant. OMG Berlin Sector is
directly responsible to OMGUS and
is governed by the policies of OMGUS
to the extent that they do not con-
flict with Kommandatura rulings.

Implementing instructions on qua-
dripartite policies contained in ACA
laws, directives, orders, proclamations,
and other policy papers are prepared
by the appropriate division/office of
OMGUS and transmitted to the field
offices, making clear the manner in
which these policies will be executed
in the US Zone.

Section C covers OMGUS and
OMGs. OMGUS is the US organiza-
tion which provides the US Element
in the ACA and in the Bipartite or-
ganization and has over-all MG re-
sponsibilities for the US Zone (as de-
fined in MGR 1—107.1c), as well as
the US Sector of Berlin (as defined in
MGR 1—430.5).

Commander-in-Chief, European Com-
mand (CINCEUR) commands all
US troops in the European Command.
He is Military Governor of the US
Zone, Germany, and the representative
of the United States on the Control
Council (MGR 1—411) and the Bipar-
tite Board (MGR 1—510.2). In the
absence of CINCEUR the Deputy Com-
mander-in-Chief, EUCOM, acts as
Commander-in-Chief and as Military
Governor.

OMGUS serves as the primary staff
of CINCEUR for MG in Germany. For
negotiations in ACA, or anything of
a purely MG nature, CINCEUR acts
through OMGUS. (For functions of
Office of Director of Civil Affairs,
EUCOM, formerly G—5, USFET, see
MGR 1—426.)

IHE Deputy Military Governor is
the Commanding General, OMG-
US. Under the direction of the Mil-
itary Governor he exercises full con-
trol, over OMGUS, RGCO, the OMGs

for Bavaria, Hesse, Bremen, and
Wuerttemberg-Baden, Berlin Sector,
Berlin Command, OMGUS (Rear),

Office of the Chief Counsel for War
Crimes and Military Tribunals. He is
also the US member of the Coor-
dinating Committee (see MGR 1—421).

12

The Assistant to the Deputy Mili-
tary Governor is the US member of
the Allied Kommandatura Berlin (see
MGR 1—416.1).

OMGUS provides the US Element
for the ACA and for the Bipartite or-
ganization. OMGUS is organized into
staff and executive offices and func-
tional divisions to cover the extensive
and diverse responsibilities of MG.
More detailed statements of individual
functions and functional relationships
of OMGUS appear in appropriate
Titles.

Various units of OMGUS offices
and divisions are located in Frank-
furt area and are attached to the
OMGUS (Rear) Echelon executive
office for administration. The Chief
is responsible directly to the Chief of
Staff, OMGUS. He is charged with
making necessary travel arrangements
for OMGUS personnel, and administra-
tive coordination with Office of Di-
rector of Civil Affairs and Headquart-
ers Command, EUCOM.

N 1 March 1946, the State Depart-

ment reopened four consular offi-
ces in Germany—Berlin, Frankfurt,
Hamburg, and Stuttgart; on 1 April
1946 offices were opened at Bremen
and Munich. Consulates in Germany
today are accredited to the Allied Mil-
itary Government occupying the terri-
tory.

Effective 15 March 1947 the Office
of the Assistant Chief of Staff, G—5,
primarily responsible for maintaining
liaison with OMGUS and for troop
coordination in the field with MG
agencies, was redesignated as the
Office of Director of Civil Affairs,
EUCOM. Where MG policies and in-
structions are related to the respon-
sibilities of other elements of the
EUCOM staff, these must be coor-
dinated through Director of Civil
Affairs, EUCOM, before being issued
by OMGUS. OMGUS prepares and
transmits to Director of Civil Affairs,
EUCOM, functional reports on major
developments in MG.

Supervision of Land OMG's by
OMGUS is generally through command
rather than functional channels, each
Land Director being responsible for all
MG activities within his area.
Command channels between functional
divisions of OMGUS and divisions of

(Continued to page 18)

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 16 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

IONTINUING heavy American

press and radio discussion of the
Marshall proposal for an integrated
European reconstruction program has
placed considerable importance on
the need for greater coal output for
the continent's industries.

Newspapers generally have agreed
that‘ the impetus and blueprint for
a ‘self-help’ program, buttressed
by US financial assistance must come
from the European countries jointly.
In discussion , of Europe‘’s present
difficulties, however, several editor-
ials have pointed to the necessity
of rehabilitating the Ruhr industrial
areas—particularly from the stand-
point of more coal production.

A Washington Post editorial, in
full, stated: “The World Bank's ex-
pression of interest in a development
scheme in the Ruhr is an event of
considerable significance. President
McCloy is reported as saying that
the Ruhr is the key to European
reconstruction. Such a _ statement
from the World Bank head indicates
that if the nations concerned could
get together in the establishment of
a Ruhr coal authority, finance would
be forthcoming.

“A feature of the new suggestion
is that the authority should give
ample operating powers to one man.
It is evidently the feeling that the
coal czar should be an American
who could introduce modern methods
of mining operation.

“The suggestion should spur action
in Europe. There are several hurdles
to overcome, and they are not all
European.

“Our occupation authorities in Ber-
lin think of the Ruhr as within their
jurisdiction and Ruhr development
as within their competence. As to
jurisdiction, they are correct, but the
governments could and should re-
move it. As to competence, the Ruhr
is still staggering along at 40 per-
cent of capacity. Enough opportunity
has been given to the present men

14 JULY 1947

Coal for Self-Help Program

on the spot to revive the Ruhr, and
they must now step down. Develop-
ment of the Ruhr is the condition
precedent of success for any con-
tinental scheme of reconstruction in
response to the Marshall initiative.
What is the good of modernizing
European industries if the coal is
lacking to sustain them?’

'N a previous editorial, the Post said

in part: “Coal is the king of
recovery. And the Ruhr is the heart
of the coal problem. If a plan could
be suggested for putting the Ruhr on
its economic feet again, the first
step on the way to real recovery
in Europe would have been taken.
All the western countries now have
to draw on American coal, and this
dependence entails one of the
greatest dollar drains on their supply
of dollars... Such a plan should go
hand in hand with an agreement on
the principles of economic integration
in Europe.”

Columnist Barnet Nover wrote:

“Just as the essential corollary to
the Truman Doctrine is the Marshall
Plan, so the indispensable supple-

ment to the Marshall Plan is the
proposal for the immediate ex-
pansion of the Ruhr’s coal spro-
duction...

“It is essential, first of all, that
something be done right away to
take care of Europe's immediate and
pressing needs, Among the greatest
and most urgent of these is coal. If
France had all the coal needed by
her factories, her power plants, her
railroads, her homes, she would be
much further along the road to
recovery than she is. The same is
true of Great Britain, of Italy, of
The Netherlands and other countries.

“In 1946 the United States shipped
around 18 million tons of coal to
Europe. Our coal exports this year
may reach the incredible total of
36 million tons as against prewar
exports of only a million tons 4
year. American coal has been in-

13

~

cost to the purchasers
tremendous. For Europe as a whole
it has meant a vast drain on wholly
inadequate dollar balances. For this
and other reasons, the rehabilitation
of Europe's coal production and the
restoration, is one of the first es-
sentials of European. recovery."

After discussing the importance of
Secretary of State Marshall's recent
Harvard University speech, Columnist
Walter Lippman said: “The needs of
Europe are urgent. Nevertheless, now
that we have made the right start,
we shall do well to make haste
slowly, to let seeds planted in the
speech germinate and bear their
fruits in Europe. For we can help
effectively only as fast in Europe as
a whole, or in any part of it, for
example the Ruhr, as the nations
most concerned are able and willing
to act together.”

OME comment has emphasized the

need for speed in devising a pro-
gram to rebuild Europe's lagging econ-
omy. The New York Times Foreign
Affairs Writer Anne McCormick said:
“Europe is sick of conferences that
get lost in. technicalities and pro-
cedures and seem to meet only to
postpone decisions. There is no time
for delay in starting the work of
reconstruction, and everybody in
Europe knows it."

A Times editorial, after noting the
“gratifying change in the whole
political and moral climate of at
least western Europe'’"—evident from
early reaction to the Marshall Plan
—said:

“ ..The second (result) is the
complete shift in all discussions
from the political to the economic
field, in which talk of territorial
barters and _ borders, reparations,
destruction of industry and deport-
ation of people, which still domi-
nated Potsdam, has been subordinated
to talk of reconstruction and pro-~
duction, irrespective of territorial or
ideological frontiers, as the - only
road to the survival of all.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
(Continued from page 10)
Germany Votes

alition would have a clear majority in
Hesse and come close to it in Lower
Saxony.

In Catholic North Rhine-Westphalia
the CDU, like the SPD in Lower
Saxony, has a plurality without a
clear majority. In a Landtag of 216
members the Christian Democrats
have 92 seats and their Free Demo-
cratic associates an even dozen. On
the other side of the fence are the
SPD with 64 and the Communists with
28, the “latter's strongest represent-
ation in any Landtag in the western
zones. With 104 members being classed
as “anti-Maixist" and 92 as “Marxist,”
the balance of power in the Duessel-
dorf parliament lies with the newly-
organized Zentrumspartei. Unlike its
namesake of Weimar and Imperial
days, the new Center party dis-
associates itself from formal religious
ties and supports a quasi-socialist
policy.

S in North Rhine-Westphalia, the

balance of power in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, most southerly of this
group of four states, lies with a centrist
group, though here it is the Demo-
crats who occupy this strategic parlia-
mentary position. Unlike their counter-
parts in several of the other Laender—
notably in Hesse and in the British
Zone as a whole—the Democratic
Peoples’ party in Wuerttemberg-Baden
has taken a ‘“middle-of-the-road”
stand, joining the CDU to vote down
any leftist economic measures but
joining equally with the left against
the CDU on most other questions, not-
ably on the matter of state versus
church schools. In a Landtag of just
100 members, the CDU holds 39 and
the two leftist parties 42 (32 SPD and
10 Communists), so the 19 DVP mem-
bers are nearly always in a position
to call the turn on most controversial
issues. It is no accident that the only
Minister-President of the western
zones who is not a member of one of
the major parties is the Wuerttem-
berg-Baden DVP leader, Dr. Reinhold
Maier.

In the three far northern Laender
(Bremen, Hamburg, and Schleswig-
Holstein), the political composition of
the legislature has been complicated

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

by the introduction of a strong meas-
ure of plurality voting into the pro-
portional systems used elsewhere.. In
the various elections to. choose repre-
sentative bodies in these states the
Social-Democrats polled 48.4 percent
in Bremen and Wesermuende-Bremer-
haven, 43.1 percent in Hamburg, and
44.4 percent in Schleswig-Holstein.
Due to the favoring of the plurality
party by the special systems of voting
adopted, however, the SPD now holds
65 of the 100 seats in the provisional
Bremen Landtag, 83 of 110 in the Ham-
burg municipal assembly, and 43 of 70
in the Schleswig-Holstein Landtag.
Under these conditions, the SPD, over-
represented in each instance, has no
challenge to its control of the govern-
ment.

Opposition in the northern states
is largely CDU in Schleswig-Holstein
(with a Schleswig autonomous move-
ment having some support in the
northern Kreise bordering on Den-
mark), and CDU-Democratic in Bremen
and Hamburg. In these last two areas
the Democrats have an especially
good chance to develop, since the
Catholic population is small and the
interest of both cities are industrial
and commercial in nature. While the
KPD. has little strength in Schleswig-
Holstein, it is somewhat stronger in
Bremen and Hamburg, due to this
same industrial-commercial character,
though it is not yet as strong in either
city as it was in the years imme-
diately preceding Hitler's seizure of
power.

JHOUGH the electoral contest in

the Soviet Zone states was super-
ficially much the same as in the western
zones, the liquidation of the SPD in
the five Laender of that zone, the re-
striction of political activity to but
three authorized parties (SED, CDU,
and LDP) and certain minor “demo-
cratic anti-fascist organizations" of
farmers, women, young people, work-
ers, and so forth, and the special
position of the SED as a “government
party" make comparisons difficult, In
all five Soviet Zone Landtage the SED
holds approximately one-half of the
total seats. With the exception of a
few seats won in each ot fhe assem-
blies by the Peasants’ Mutual Aid
group, the remainder are divided
between the CDU and the LDP, the

14

latter having the margin in Thuringia
and in Sachsen-Anhalt, the former in
Brandenburg and in Mecklenburg-Vor-
pommern. In Saxony itself the two
“opposition” parties are virtually equal,
the CDU having 28 members, the Liber
al-Democrats 30.

IHOUGH in the pre-Hitler period
5 there were wide variations in po-
litical sentiment in the areas now
included within the Soviet Zone, these
do not appear today. “Red" industral
cities of Saxony, triumphantly so-
cialist long before the first World
War and farming communities of
Mecklenburg with centuries old neo-
feudal political leanings, both turned
in about the same SED margins of
victory. In some instances, the in-
dustrial cities- actually showed less
enthusiasm than the farmer for the
new Socialist Unity party. With the
elimination of the SPD in the Soviet
Zone and given the role of the SED
as “government party’, normal poli-
tical analyses become very difficult in
terms of the social, economic, and
religious interests which normally
motivate political action in a demo-
cratic society. All that can actually be
set down as the end result of the
Landtag voting in the Soviet Zone
20 October is that the SED has a major-
ity, or very close to it, in each of the
five Landtage and that opposition,
such as it is, cannot be expected to be
very effective.

In Berlin itself the situation is quite
different. There, efforts to merge the
SPD with the KPD were frustrated by
an overwhelming vote of the SPD
membership and the party continues
to enjoy a separate existence. In the
municipal elections held last fall the
Social-Democrats not only came out
the leading party, but their 48.7 per-
cent of the total vote won them very
nearly an over-all majority in the city
council, Among all 17 German states
the SPD vote was highest in the city
of Berlin. Equally high, on a relative
basis, was the SED vote of 19.8 per-
cent. In the western zones the best
the Communists could do was 14 per-
cent in North Rhine-Westphalia, largely
as a result of votes cast in the Ruhr
district. Even so, the SED vote fell far
below the 45 to 50 percent polled in
the Soviet Zone.

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 18 ---
IOMMENTS pro and con on the

Bizonal Economic Council have
received considerable space in the
German press. In one of the three
critical comments recently appearing
in Soviet-licensed papers, the Berliner
Zeitung expressed suspicion that a
government and parliament has been
set up in Frankfurt for part of Ger-
many, despite claims to the contrary.

“This real character of the
Economic Council was underscored
when representatives of the occupa-
tion forces spoke of the great
‘historical’ importance in the estab-
lishment of this Council,’ observed
the Soviet-licensed paper, stating that
the dangers this Council creates are
real because “There are powerful
interests which want such a develop-
ment.” S

The paper cited Walter Lippman,
whom it characterized as the “best-
known propagandist of American
monopoly capital, as stating that the
US wants to further in Europe the
political decentralization of Germany
without compromise and to join the
three western zones into a federalist
state if necessary. The paper further
contended that the aims of such a
western German state were well de-
scribed in the speech of Minister-
President Stock of Hesse who sa‘d
that the solution of the German
question is closely connected with
the Marshal plan. The Berliner Zeitung
observed that though one must
welcome aid in principle, if the
Marshal plan means the dismember-
ment of Germany it must be rejected.

In a stronger criticism, the Taeg-
liche Rundschau said that the fact
that the Council meets in Frankfurt is
symbolic because this city is the
“center of capitalist Germany.”

“Behind this Economic Council,”
advised the paper, ‘forces of German
and foreign capital are at work who
want to make western Germany...
a’ kind of ward of the big inter-
national trusts and monopoly capital.”

14 JULY 1947

Economic Council Criticized

Noting that one stressed the unity
of Germany at the opening of the
Council, the paper said this is rather
suspicious because the characteristic
picture of this council is support of
the dismemberment of Germany.

|AEGLICHE Rundschau claimed
that reactionary circles in the
Council want to get the Ruhr area
under the control of “the foreign
masters behind them’ and want to

-nip in the bud socialization of the

Ruhr and land reform in the British
Zone, Because one cannot realize
this aim on an all-German scale one
has given up the east zone, contended
the paper, and German reactionaries
have sacrificed German unity for their
business interests.

“The Economic Council is a product
of the splitting policy and is neither
a contribution to the establishment
of a German peace economy nor a
contribution to the revival of
European economy,” concluded the
paper.

Neues Deutschland, Socialist Unity
Party organ, found the first session
“very unsatisfactory," declaring one
misses a ‘certain aim’ in the
Economic Council. The SED paper
claimed that the only committee
members who showed up on time
were the Communists. It said much
time will have to be spent on ad-
ministrative questions before tackling
practical work.

In its. article on the Bizonal
Economic Council, the US licensed
Tagesspiegel pointed out that the next
month will prove whether the fine
words spoken at the first session will
be carried out in practice.

“Tt seems to us a good sign,” noted
the paper, “that in their opening
speeches all members left open all
factors, both positive and negative
ones. Thus there is hope that the
western German economic parliament
will be able to circumvent the great

15

become a
of achieving

discussion group ins
concrete work .. ."

S another possible danger, the

paper said there is a tendency to
bureaucratize the already unwieldy
economic organs.

Continuing, the paper said that the
establishment of the Economic Council
is a step on the way towards setting
up a federal republic.

“That's why one must, prevent all
attempts to centralize the body,
attempts which are closely connected
with bureaucratic concentration,”
warned the paper. “It will be up to
the Frankfurt representatives whether
the Bavarian farmer and the West-
phalia worker will not get the feeling
they are governed from Frankfurt.
Centralism is bad not only when it
comes from Berlin, but also if it
comes from other places.

“Central direction of economy is
undoubtedly necessary, but centralism
in principle is not.”

Winter Aided Shipping

The freezing of the Rhine during
February and March afforded inland
water transport the opportunity of
carrying out urgently needed repairs
on its tug fleet. When navigation was
again restored, the Bizonal Fleet was
in an excellent position to make full
use of its available equipment.

Plant Reports Checked

A study is being made by MG
officials of the accuracy of reports
submitted by manufacturing plants to
higher level German agencies. One
reason is to ‘check whether inven-
tory, production, and similar reports
are being understated so that excess
over the amount reported can be
channeled to worker distribution and
compensation trading.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
(Continued from page 8)

Decartelizing IG Farben

ben employee policy was extremely
shrewd. There were great advantages
associated with a Farben job. A man
.lived in a better house, was better
paid, had many social welfare bene-
fits, and always was respected in the
community. He was very definitely in
the good graces of the government.
Most of these men look back on the
heyday of the Farben empire as a

golden age. Many of them ‘would pro- .

bably do anything they could, in a
quiet, safe way, to help Farben re-
cover its former glory.

Probably very few of these dedi-
cated workers realized the fabulous
evil which IG Farbenindustrie fathered.

NE of our Congressional reports on

the Farben hearings says: “IG Far-

ben, nominally a private business

enterprise, has been ..., in fact, a

colossal empire serving the Germea

State as one of the principal industrial

cores around which successive German

drives for world conquest have been
organized.”

The report goes on to state un-
equivocally that “overwhelming
proof” shows that Farben officials had
full prior knowledge of Germany's
plans for world conquest, and “knew
and approved of each of the Nazis’
aggresive acts, in advance.”

Between 1933 and 1943 Farben de-
voted its enormous resources to re-
search designed to produce ersatz war
materials to replace Germany's de-
ficiencies—to compensate for a lack
of bauxite, for example, the raw mate-
rial necessary in the manufacture of
aluminium, IG concentrated on the
development of magnesium. To make
Germany independent of rubber im-
ports, IG experts developed the buna
process for the manufacture of syn-
thetic rubber. In this connection Far-
ben skillfully played on the greed of
an American firm with which it had
cartel agreements, to keep US compa-
nies from experimenting in the ersatz
rubber field. According to data pre-
sented to the Truman, Bone, and Kil-
gore committees, by the Department
of Justice, synthetic rubber even in
the United States was to come under

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Farben's “sphere of influence” under
the so-called Jasco cartel agreements.

TANDARD Oil- was the firm

through which Farben -worked
in this instance, and IG did a
neat job. of wool-pulling. Every-
body in the rubber field knew of
Farben’s success with buna, and
every American tire company wanted
the formula. Standard Oil-was eager
to have a monopoly in the production
of this synthetic when Farben finally
released the American. rights to the
process. So Standard fully accom-
plished IGs purpose of dissuading
American rubber companies from
undertaking independent research.
This was done by Standard's falsely
creating the impression that it had
already received buna process from
Farben and was trying to work out a
scheme for licensing the process to
American rubber companies. This ex-
cuse worked nicely for a while but
by 1939 the rubber companies got tired
of being put off, and began to clamor

‘for the process. An official of Stand-

ard met IG representatives in Basle
in October, 1939, and stated that he
had to be provided with an excuse for
not getting the formula released. IG
obligingly cabled Standard Oil to the
effect that the authorities would not
permit the information to be given
American firms.

IG used its cartel agreements with
American firms to obtain for Germany
certain invaluable processes. Among
these was the process for producing
tetraethyl lead, which is essential for
the manufacture of aviation gasoline
and which was obtained for the Nazis
by IG Farben. In this connection an
IG official said:

ITHOUT lead-tetraethyl the pre-

sent method of warfare would be
unthinkable. The ‘fact that since the
beginning of the war we could pro-
duce lead-tetraethyl is entirely due to
the circumstances that shortly before,
the Americans. had presented us with
the production plans complete with
experimental knowledge; thus the
difficult work of development (one
need only recall the poisonous pro-
perty of lead-tetraethyl which caused
so many deaths in the United States
of America) was spared us, since we
could take up the manufacture of this
product together with the experience

16

that the Americans had gathered over
long years."

The German Government was dis-
satisfied with progress made in pro-
duction and development of poison
gases until IG took over in 1938, and
eventually achieved 95 percent of the
country’s poison gas production. An
IG Farben official at Wuppertal-El-
berfeld developed a gas so deadly
that it could penetrate any gas mask
in existence. Experiments were carried
out first on monkeys, then on human
beings. Luckless concentration camp
inmates were the guinea pigs for this
experimentation. Dr. Fritz ter Meer,
one of the outstanding IG scientists,
stated that this was very practical
actually—the concentration camp
inmates would have been killed any-
way, and the lives of countless Aryan
workers were saved thereby, since |
they didn't have to be used. Later the
gases were used to exterminate whole
groups in camps such as Auschwitz.

Farben executives were fully aware
of the part they were playing—even
boasted of it; Dr. von Schnitzler,
member of IG's managing board said
in an address of welcome to the Spanish
Ambassador in 1943:

“But only during the war could
German chemistry prove itself worthy
of the task. It is not exaggeration to
say that without the services of Ger-
many chemistry performed under the
Four-Year Plan the prosecution of
modern war would have been un-
thinkable."

IARBEN was of invaluable aid to

the Third Reich in yet another
way—the company's world Wide list
of plants and industrial contacts fur-
nished the basis for an elaborate spy
net-work. IG's NW 7 office in Berlin
which was formed originally as IG's
liaison office with the various govern-
mental agencies in Berlin was trans-
formed by Dr. Max Ilgner into the
economic intelligence arm of the
Wehrmacht. From 1937 on this office
concentrated on preparing surveys of
factories in foreign countries. These
surveys were used by the Luftwaffe
in selecting bombing targets.

Farben amassed great profit by
arming the Wehrmacht for war. As
the Nazi territorial expansion pro-
gressed through the stages of political

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 20 ---
and then physical force, IG as the co-
aggressor reaped the fruits of con-
quest. Depite the monopolistic posi-
tion it already held, IG proceeded to
annex an industrial empire such as
the world had never seen before. Far-
ben played an outstanding part in ex-
ploiting conquered countries for the
Nazi war maschine, In France, Nor-
way, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland,
Belgium, IG acquired plants, proper-
ties, and intangible assets which it
had coveted for years.

Now that Farben's dream of a “‘Neu-
ordnung”, in which it would rule su-
preme over a world-wide chemical
empire has been given a staggering
set-back, the Allied Control Authority
has the job of making sure that Farben
‘can't be revitalized as a strong and
dangerous chain of affiliated units.
The problem of the US Control Office:
is a delicate and difficult one involv-
ing diplomacy, detective work, and a
keén financial insight.

At present every cartel has been
terminated, interlocking directorates
have been banned, centralized sales,
purchases, and management eliminated.

HERE never was a Farben stock-

holder's list: the IG capital struc-
ture as of 1945 consisted of 3,928,838
shares of common stock with a par
value of RM 1,360,000,000 and 40,000
shares of preferred stock at a par
value of RM 40,000,000. The common
‘stock were bearer shares. (In accord-
ance with German custom bearer
stock was deposited in banks, the
banks collected the dividends, and
voted the stock by proxy). At the last
meeting of the stockholders in 1943
only 10 percent of the stock was
voted by shareholders who were pre-
sent,-90 percent by banks. Of the
40,000 preferred shares outstanding,
38,000 shares were registered in the
stock register of IG under the name
of Amoniakwerk Merseburg, a subsidi-
ary wholly owned by IG. The remain-
ing 2,000 shares in bearer form, were
in the possession of the Deutsche
Laenderbank, the Farben home bank.

As a result of such a financial set-
up great obscurity could cloak the
responsibility for the policies of any
corporation.

14 JULY 1947

In the establishment of the in-
dependent units, each such unit will
have a corporate entity of its own,
and where practicable, will be organiz-
ed as a joint company, with all the
stock being registered stock. At an
appropriate time this stock will be
placed in the hands of new owners.
No announcement has yet been made
as to the disposition of this stock or
how, in fact, it will be offered to its
ultimate owners. Nevertheless, one
definite objective will be accomplish-
ed: the ownership of these enter-
prises will be separate and distinct
from the ties of the former IG Farben-
industrie AG. Interlocking director-
ship and interlocking ownership will

17

(Photo from DEUTSCHER VERLAG)

Buna factory in Schkopau, branch of IG Farben. The unusual building still is in
existence today. It was constructed without walls, doors, or windows.

be precluded. Centralized control by
the equivalent of the former IG Farben
organization will be impossible; centra-
lized selling and buying agencies will
be prohibited. Each such enterprise
must and will engage in free competi-
tion and free enterprise.

To accomplish all this, control must
be established and maintained. This
control can be kept up without great
difficulty during the period of occu-
pation. When the occupation is over,
there will be another problem —
whether or not an evil concentration
of power such as was IG Farben or
its equivalent will ever be permitted
to be reestablished in Germany.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
(Continued from page 12)

Mil. Gov. Regul ations

‘OMGs in the US Zone is through the
Chief of Staff, OMGUS. This does
not, however, preclude the use of
technical channels for information,
advice, and review of field operations
by divisions/offices (see MGR's 1—600
and 1—601). ‘

FFECTIVE 1 January 1947, the

jurisdiction and responsibility of
US Military Government was extended
to the whole of Land Bremen as de-
fined in MGR 1—430.4 and it is now
defined for such purposes as an inte-
gral part of the US Zone (MGR
1—107.c). By MG Proclamation No.3
(MGR 23—303), 21 January 1947, Land
Bremen assumed equal status with the
other Laender in the US Zone as pre-
viously constituted by MG Proclama-
tion No. 2 (MGR 23—301). Pending
adoption of a constitution, the exist-
ing German government of Stadt
Bremen is recognized in MG Proclama-
tion No. 3 as the provisional govern-
ment for Land Bremen, and enjoys re-
presentation in the Laenderrat, in the
bizonal Economic Council and all
other bizonal agencies (MGR 1—510.3).
British Military Government, however,
retains jurisdiction over that part of
the former Bremen Enclave which was
not included in Land Bremen; how-
ever, US Foices contiune to be respon-
sible for the area security of the entire
Bremen Enclave. Upon the promul-
gation of MG Proclamation No. 3 all
existing British MG enactments were
repealed thereby and US Military
Government legislation. made effec-
tive; however, rights and liabilities,
including criminal offenses, which
had previously accrued therein under
British MG legislation were continued
in force and effect.

MG Liaison and Security Offices
are established and maintained in each
Stadtkreis of the US Zone and in each
Landkreis containing no Stadtkreis.
Functions of a Liaison and Security
Office are: to help insure that Ger-
mans, UN nationals, US personnel,
and others comply with MG laws,
quadripartite agreements, and US
occupation policy; to observe, assist,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

and advise (but not to direct) German
governmental agencies in the administ-
ration and enforcement of German
laws (see MGR 5—433.3).

HE function of MG administrative
T units in each Land is to provide
the administrative support for its Liai-
son and Security Offices and to re-
lieve the detachments of all administ-
tative burdens.

The geographical components of the
four Laender comprising the US Zone
are. set forth in detail in MG Pro-
clamations No. 2 (MGR 23—301) and
No. 3 (MGR 23—303).

OMG Bavaria has responsibility for
MG in Land Bavaria, constituted now
as it was in 1933, less the Rhenish
Palatinate (Regierungsbezirk Pfalz)
and the Kreis Lindau.

OMG Hesse has responsibility for
MG in former Land Hessen east of the
Rhine, in the former Prussian Pro-
vinces of Kurhessen and Nassau, and
a small tip of territory between the
town of Witzenhausen and Allendorf.
(See MGR 1—430.2).

OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden has re-
sponsibility for MG in the Stadt and
Landkreis Stuttgart. (See MGR 1—
430.3).

OMG Bremen has responsibility for
Military Government in Stadt Bremen,
Landgebiet Bremen and Stadtkreis
Bremerhaven (Bremerhaven and form-
er Stadtkreis Wesermuende).

OMG Berlin Sector has responsibi-
lity for MG in districts of Berlin:
Kreuzberg, Neukoelln, Schoeneberg,
Steglitz, Tempelhof, Zehlendorf. (See
MGR 1—416.1 for special case of Ber-
lin Sector.)

Part 4, Section D, covers “Military
Districts and Military Posts” and
“Functions of Post Commanders Re-
lating to Military Government.” The
first installment of this series detailing
the provisions of Part 4 erroneously
named it as Part 5, Section C. (See
MGR 1—470, 1—470.1, 1—471 and
1—471.1.)

The fourth and. final installment in
next week's issue of the Weekly In-
formation Bulletin deals with Part 5,
“Relationship of Military Government
and German Government.”

18

Bipartite Committee

A Bipartite Organization Com-
mitttee has been established to
implement and coordinate the
Bipartite Organization with exist-
ing elements of OMGUS and to
comply with the policies of the
Military Governor. The members
chosen to make up the Committee
are: Mr. E. L, MacDonald, Bi-
partite Control Office; Mr. W.
D. Schroder, Control .Office; Ma-
jor Gordon L. C. Scott, Bipartite
Secretariat; and Mr. E. C. Wolfs-
perger, Civil Administration Di-
vision. .

The Committee will report to
the Chief of Staff, OMGUS, from
time to time on various subjects
under survey and study.

Activity and Interest

In Politics Compared

Writing in the US-licensed Tages-
spiegel in Berlin, Karl Germer
advised that the masses should not
necessarily be politically active, but
should be politically interested. Edu-
cation towards democratic ideals, he
said, is not identical with a guidance
of the masses toward political acti-
vity, for a democratic people does
not have to be politically active as
a whole.

Real democracy, continued Germer,
is achieved by the activity of a cer-
tain group of politically active people
and of the masses whom these people
keep politically interested,

The present trouble with all Ger-
man parties is that their party polit-
ical principles have not developed
so far that they can meet the polit-
ical tasks of reality, said Germer.
He declared there are two groups
among present party leaders: those
old party warhorses who stick to
ideological traditions and party doc-
trines, and those who really want to
be political active and gain political
maturity but are prevented by the
oldtimers.

The main important point to watch
for in seeking political leaders is that
they stick to their political, convic-
tions and try to realize them, said
Germer,

14 JULY 1947

--- Page 22 ---
ae ‘
ILFERING — Pilferers who broke
into this German freight car pawed

hastily through broken-open trunks
and boxes to find light, easily trans-
ported valuables and cigarettes.
Thieves sometimes hide in box-cars
and allow themselves to be sealed in

Le

for the trip, in order to rifle the con-
tents of the car at leisure. Confede-
rates at the other end of the journey
help the robber cart away the loot.

Part of the pilfered goods in this car
belonged to American dependents who
had recently reached the zone.

However, pilferage has decreased
recently as a result of determined
efforts by the railway security police,
and because the longer daylight hours
of summer make it more difficult to
get away with looting.

(ARMY SIGNAL CORPS Photo}

Education System to be Revised

ASIC Principles for Democratiza-

tion of Education in Germany,”
Directive No. 54, has been approved
and signed by the Coordinating Com-
mittee. Instructions to implement the
directive soon will appear. The 10
principles which will be put into
effect are:

1, There should be equal education-
al opportunity for all.

2. Tuition, textbooks, and other
necessary scholastic material should
be provided free of charge in all edu-
cational institutions fully supported
by public funds which cater mainly
to pupils of compulsory school age.
In addition, maintenance grants
should be made to those who need
aid. In all other educational insti-
tutions including universities, tuition,
textbooks, and necessary material
should be provided free of charge,

14 JULY 1947

together with maintenance grants for
those in need of assistance.

3. Compulsory full-time school
attendance should be required for all
between the ages of six and at least
15—and thereafter, for those pupils
not enrolled in full-time educational
institutions, at least part-time com-
pulsory attendance up to the com-
pleted age of 18 years.

4. Schools for the compulsory pe-
tiods should form a comprehensive
educational system. The terms “Ele-
mentary Education” and “Secondary
Education” should mean two con-
secutive levels of instruction, not two
types or qualities of instruction which
overlap.

5. All schools should lay emphasis
upon education for civic responsibility
and a democratic way of life, by
means of the content of the curriculum,

19

textbooks and materials of instruction,
and by the organization of the school
itself.

6. School curricula should aim to
promote understanding of and re-
spect for other nations, and to this
end attention should be given to the
study of modern language without
prejudice to any.

7. Educational and vocational guid-
ance should be provided for all pupils
and students.

8. Health supervision and health
education should be provided for all
pupils and students.

9. All teacher education should take
place in a university or in a peda-
gogical institution of university rank.

10. Full provision should be made
for effective participation of the people
in the reform and organization, as
well as in the administration of the
educational system.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Personnel and Supply Movement
Estimate for July 1947, AG 370.5 RYT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 5 June 1947.

Assignment of Military Posts and
Intallations for Quartermaster Supply,
AG 609 CGM-AGO, Hq EUCOM,

3 June 1947. Gives key supply points..

European Command Technical Serv-
ice Organization, AG 322 GSP-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 5 June 1947. Hg EUCOM
letter, 5 April 1947, is amended to add
several changes.

* Enlistments in the Army Security
Agency, AG 342.06 AGP-B, Hq
EUCOM, ‘11 June 1947. Lists quali-
fications necessary for service in
the Army Security Agency.

Financing and Reporting Costs of
Care and Handling Surplus Property,
AG 400.703 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
13 June 1947. Concerns the preparation
of. various reports.

Personnel Survey of the Army,
31 March 1947, AG 201.3 TIE-AGU,
Hq EUCOM, 17 June 1947.

Application of Forty Hour Week to
Indigenous Civilian Personnel, AG 230
GAP-AGE, Hq EUCOM, 19 June 1947.
EUCOM letter, 5 May 1947, para-
graphs 1e (2) and 2, are rescinded
and revised paragraphs are sub-
stituted,

Discharge of Displaced Persons from
Organized Labor Service Units, AG
383.7 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 19 June
1947, Lists several statements under
which personnel may be discharged.

Quotas for Recreation Areas, Gar-
mish and Berchtesgaden, AG 354.1
SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 20 June 1947.

Report of European Command In-
effective Personnel, Reports Control
Symbol ECGPA-15, AG 319.2 GPA-
AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 20 June 1947.
Rescinds USFET letter 22 August 1946
and quotes new substitution.

Emergency Return of Allied and
Neutral War Department Civilian
Employees, AG 230.53 GPA-AGE, Hq
EUCOM, 21 June 1947. Lists agencies
who have agreed to receive and relay

messages from families to their kin

in the US Zone and installations in

unoccupied countries.

Circular No. 47, Hq EUCOM, 23 June
1947, Unit Publications, This directive
concerns. existing War. Department
and command directives re the
operation of unit .publications and to
establish further policies governing
the production of. such in _ the
European Command.

Fiscal Station Code, AG 130 BFD-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 23 June 1947.
Amends USFET letter, 30 December
1946,

International Road Signs and Ger-
man Adaptations, AG 415 PMG-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 23 June 1947. Refers to
European Command Safety Poster
No.1i showing the road signs used
throughout the US Occupied Zone of
Germany.

Implementation of Control] Council
Law No. 54, Amendment to ‘Control
Council Law No. 27—Tax on Alcohol,
AG 010.6 (FD), OMGUS, 24 June 1947.

EUCOM-SOP 37, Changes No. 1, Hq
EUCOM, 25 June 1947, Concerns
changes in Standing Operating Pro-

“cedure 37.

Organization of the Office of the
Commander-in-Chief, European Com-
mand, AG 322 GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, *
25 June 1947.

Establishment of the Eucom Ex-
change System, Circular No. 48, Hq
EUCOM, 27 June 1947.

Visitors to Germany and Austria,
Circular No. 49, Hq EUCOM, 27 June
1947, Paragraphs in Circular 9, Hq
EUCOM, 2 April 1947 referring to
authorized dependents on _ personal

visits are rescinded. USFET letter,
16 December 1946, same subject is
rescinded.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

Establishment of Bipartite Or-
ganization Committee, Staff Memoran-
dum No.32, OMGUS, 27 June 1947.
(See separate item.)

Budget and Fiscal Procedures, In-
structions and Information, AG 110
(CO), OMGUS, 28 June 1947. 7

Messages to UN

It is contrary to US Governmental
policy for official Governmental offices -
or agencies to transmit messages
from or the views of non-Govern-
mental organizations to the United
Nations Organization. Such messages
or views should be sent directly from
the concerned organizations to the
Secretary General of the United Na-
tions.

AR 340—10 prohibits the trans-
mittal of private mail in penalty
envelopes for the purpose of avoid-
ing payment of postage. USFET Letter,
AG 311.7—AGM—AGO “Unauthor-
ized Use. of Army Postal Channels.”
13 July 1946, states that “with the
resumption of international postal -
service between Germany and the
world on 1 April 1946... there
remains no justifiably humanitarian
need for unauthorized use of Army
postal channels.”

All Military Government ‘organ-
izations and personnel should, there-
fore, decline to accept messages or
views of non-Governmental organ-
izations or of private individuals for
transmittal through either official
channels or the Army postal service.

Personnel Changes

Col. Milton T. Hankins has been
named Chief Chemical Officer,
European Command.

Col. George E._ Wrockloff, Jr., is
announced as Acting Chief of Trans-
portation, European Command,
effective 1 July 1947.

Col. Vance W. Batchelor is the new
Chief of Military Labor Service,
European Command, and Commanding
Officer, 9th Labor Supervision Area,
effective 15 June 1947,

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF