--- Page 2 ---
AGRICULTURAL SITUATION

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG

BIEDEN~
OPE MARBURG
OBER &
LAHNKREIS

pds FRIEOBERG
N,

FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD"

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBERBISCH ~
OFSHEIM

EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAL

HEILBRONN

Yo BACKNANG
PEORZHEIM
LEONBERG

BOBLINGEN Frases

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

AGRICULTURE SITUATION — The weather
has adversely affected the crops in Germany
this summer, as illustrated by the Hessian
farmer's examining his storm-damaged rye
field near Bad Nauheim. An article on the
basic food deficiency begins on page 3.
(Photo by Army Signal Corps)

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Marjorie A. Yahraes wrote the article on
Show Windows for Bizonal Exports as her
last assignment for the Weekly Information
Bulletin. A former newspaper and magazine
writer in the United States, she had been
the chief writer on the WIB staff since the
first of the year. Mrs. Yahraes left Germany
with her husband early this month for
Mexico City where he will resume his
position as correspondent for a leading
American magazine.

Halder’s Diary was prepared by Miss F. M.
Boyle of the Public Information Staff, Office
of the Chief of Counsel for War Crimes, in
Nuremberg, from the translation by Phillip
Wilner, chief of the German Court Reporting
Branch, OCC-WC, Mr. Wilner, in three
months, transcribed the seven-volume diary
which is a daily record in German shorthand
of military strategy followed by the German
atmy from September 1939 until September
£942, and contains notes on Hitler’s secret
conferences.

The Food & Agriculture Branch, Economics
‘tivision, OMGUS, compiled a detailed sum-
mary of the indigenous farming and food-
producing situation in the US Zone, entitling
the report Maximization of German <Agri-
culiure. This will be presented in a series
of five articles, the first in this issue being
Basic Food Deficiency.

Foreign Trade Based on Reichsmark is
from the Trade and Commerce annex of the
monthly Report of the Military Governor,
No. 25.

NEXT WEEK

The coordination of rail transportation
and the rehabilitation of the meteorological
Service are included among the articles
Scheduled for Issue No. 113. There also is to
be an account of the day care centers, The
second in the series on maximization of
German agriculture will be food production
planning, The Station List for October will
be published.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 112 29 September 1947

Review of US Occupational Activities .
Maximization of Agriculture, Part 1
Halder's Diary.

Foreign Trade Based on Reichsmark .

Show Windows for Bizonal Exports .

Germany — Key to European Recovery .

German Reactions .

Official Instructions .

INFORMATION

OLS Oe) 65 |

dt
13
16

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
REVIEW OF US OCCUPATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Digest of Semi-Monthly Military Government Report No. 75

PUBLICATIONS—Wider utilization
in German periodicals of articles
appearing in American magazines
was made possible through receipt
by Military Government of a list of
87 US magazines which have granted
blanket clearance for reprints of
their contents ... The Bavarian re-
print service has received 1,049
items of this type to date which have
been made availlable to German
editors. «

PUBLIC HEALTH—Except for pul-
monary tuberculosis, typhoid fever,
infectious dysentery, and an out-
break of poliomyelitis in Berlin, the
rate of incidence of all major commu-
nicable diseases was lower in August
that in the same month of 1946...
There was a slight increase in rates
for gonorrhea, diphtheria, typoid
fever, dysentery, and poliomyelitis
in August as compared with July.

INTERNAL TRADE—Under current
interzonal trade programs, deliveries
of pit. props from the Soviet Zone
and of refractory raw materials from
the French Zone are lagging behind
commitments. Because the Combined
US/UK Area is importing truck tires
for dollar payment, no truck tires,
size 600 and above, are to be allo-
cated to the Soviet Zone. However
efforts will continue to be made to
supply smaller size tires under the
current commitment.

CONSUMER GOODS—Of the 55,000
short tons of raw cotton imported
under the US Commercial Company
contract, less than 4,400 remain in
Bremen warehouses and approximately
14,300 are in spinning-mill ware-
houses, The remainder is in various
stages of textile processing. In an
attempt to minimize theft of finished
textiles for export, all railroad cars
carrying such textiles will be sten-
ciled “property of American Govern-
ment.”

DRAMA—As the result of con-
ferences in Salzburg between US
Military Government officials of
Germany and Austria, all transla-
tions of US plays to be performed in
Germany and Austria will be published

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

DroughtHampers Economy

Described as the severest
drought for Germany in a
hundred years, the dry period
has adversely affected various
phases of the German economy.

Preliminary estimates indicate
that the drought will be responsi-
ble for reduction of from 20 to
40 percent in the over-all fall
crop. Hydrogeneration of elec-
tric power dropped 22 percent
on account of the dry weather;
the deficit had to be balanced by
the more expensive coal gener-
ation and imported power.

The shortage of electric power,
also due to the drought, has
necessitated canceling schedules
of certain electric trains. The
drought-induced electric power
shortage has curtailed work in
locomotive and freight car repair
shops in the US Zone and has
resulted in temporary stoppage
of this work in some cases.

Owing to the low water levels,
inland water transport is ex-
pected to be able to handle only
about 50 percent of scheduled
tonnage in the fall crop move-
ments, thus placing an additional
burden on rail transport.

exclusively by OMGUS offices in
Berlin. It was agreed also that
visits and performances by leading
US artists should be utilized for
reorientation purposes in both
countries,

TRADE UNIONS—A decision was
reached at a meeting of leading trade
union representatives from the
US/UK Zones in Frankfurt to under-
take the merger of trade unions in
the two zones since the establishment
of bizonal economics agencies had
raised new problems. The Military
Governor informed the union leaders
that US Military Government would
interpose no obstacles to the estab-
lishment of a bizonal trade union
federation,

TRANSPORTATION—At the end
of August, the Soviet Zone.owed the
US Zone about 17,000 open railroad
cars while the US Zone owed the
Soviet Zone about 5,000 cars of all
other types. In order to balance
partially the growing Soviet car debt,
the furnishing of empty closed cars
to the Soviet Zone was discontinued.

COAL—Ruhr coal output in the
British Zone averaged 266,635 short
tons per day for the first week in
September, and a new postwar high
of 268,488 short tons was reached on
4 September ... With the low water
level, attainment of the scheduled
September coal movement program
of 264,000 short tons for the Rhine
River will be difficult... An average
of 253,000 underground and suface
workers were actually on the job
every day during August in the
Ruhr .... Absentees was seasonally
high at 17 percent ... The recruiting
program in the US Zone has sent
6,528 volunteers to the Ruhr.

FOOD—The official ration scale
for the bizonal area during the 106th
tation period of 15 September to
12 October remains unchanged. The
full bread ration for the normal con-
sumer is to be met. However, low
stocks permit the issuance of only
two-thirds of the potato and meat
amounts, and three-fourths of the fat
amount ... With the herring season
near its peak, the German fishing
fleet landed 46,685 short tons of fish
during August, more than double the
July landings.

AGRICULTURE—Owing partly to
the early grain harvest, farm-to-
market. deliveries of breadgrains in
the US Zone in July were 64 percent
higher than those of the correspond-
ing period of 1946. Potato deliveries
were less than one-third of those in
the preceding year, owing partly’ to
the drought as well as the earlier
grain harvest.

LAW AND ORDER—There is a
general upward trend of reported

offenses in Bavaria, Hesse, and
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden. Increases in
(Continued on page 6)

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 6 ---
ation of |

Food Production Planning

ESTERN GERMANY is today

one of the great food-deficit
areas of the world, With increasing
concentrations of industrial popu-
lations crowding upon the limited
land suitable for agriculture, the
Combined US/UK Zones area is ex-
ceeded only by the British Isles as
the world’s heaviest food-importing
area. Accordingly, a basic objective
of the US/UK occupying forces must
be the maximum increase of Ger-
many's own indigenous agriculture,
with continuing emphasis on the pro-
duction of food crops for direct
human consumption.

Even with the most intensive efforts
to that end, the remaining imports
which must be supplied to maintain
minimum feeding levels in Germany
will be extremely difficult for avail-
able world food supplies to provide
and constitute a heavy continuing
financial burden to be financed either
by the US and UK taxpayers or by
increased exports from revived Ger-
man industrial production.

The German economy is basically
industrial, and has been seriously
deficient in food production for more
than a hundred years. This food de-

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

ficiency contributed to Germany's
defeat in 1918; and Hitler, fully re-
alizing this, exerted great efforts to
force her to feed herself. Germany
already had exceeded most other
countries in reclamation of heath and
moor land, drainage of low land, and
intensive application of natural and
chemical fertilizers,

Y CONTROLLED planting and by

large subsidies to farmers Hitler
reached a prewar production maxi-
mum in which more than 80 percent
of the food consumed in Germany was
produced indigenously—but this re-
quired large feed and fodder imports
for the livestock population, equal to
15 percent of Germany’s total caloric
consumption of food. Thus, in the peak
prewar production year, Germany’‘s
total food, feed, and fodder imports
were equal to about one-third of her
food consumption.

Eastern Germany—especially east
of the Oder River—was known as her
“bread basket." This region contri-
buted enough surplus food to feed
nearly six million people in western
Germany, besides taking care of the
needs of its own population. At Pots-
dam most of this eastern area, pro-

3

ducing 25 percent of Germany’‘s nor-
mal food production, was placed
under the administration of Poland
and of the Soviet Union,

The millions of Germans in that
area, as well as several millions from
Czechoslovakia and from other coun-
tries have been forced back into the
truncated remains of Germany as ex-
pellees and refugees. The bizonal
area's population increased from
34,160,000 at the end of 1939 to an
estimated population by the end of
1947 of 43,250,000 (including 1,650,000
in the western sectors of Berlin, who
are now dependent on the bizonal
area). This is an increase of about
25 percent.

ERMANY'S total population to-
day is almost as large as before
the ‘war, compressed within narrower
boundaries and with its food-producing
area cut by 25 percent. In addition,
lack of fertilizers and seeds have
reduced yields and planting in the
remaining agricultural land of western
Germany until total production is
only 70 percent of the prewar peak in
the same area.
But it must be emphasized that
Germany's food deficiency is basic

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
and not a temporary result of these
present conditions. Even if she were
at some future date to be supplied
her full fertilizer and seed require-
ments—with all the necessary farm
equipment, and with incentives in the
‘way of consumer goods for farmers
to buy, sufficient to restore the high-
est level of prewar production—there
would not be available for the pre-
sent increased non-farm population
more than half their prewar food
consumption.

Over the past 12 months the indi-
genous food supply available to the
rationed population amounted to less
than 1,000 calories per person per day
(less than 800 for the “normal con-
sumer"). It had been hoped to in-
crease this indigenous food supply
with the present harvest, but the com-
bination of a most severe winter with
a very dry summer makes it extremely
difficult to harvest and collect any
more food than last year if as much.

The Byrnes-Bevin Agreement for
economic unification of the bizonal
area called for the attainment of a
minimum ration level of 1,800 calories
for “normal consumers” as soon as
world food ‘supplies permit, Since
German worker groups necessarily
receive supplementary rations this
would require an over-all ration level
averaging about 2,100 ‘calories per
person per day — this is considered
by the Public Health Branch, OMGUS,
the minimum on which continuing
deterioration of health can be halted
and a beginning of economic recovery
made.

T WOULD REQUIRE imports of

5,500,000 short tons of food and to-
tal expenditure of US/UK appropria-
ted funds of over $800,000,000 (pre-
sent prices) to meet this target over
a 12month period. There are at
present neither funds nor supplies in
sight to sustain even such a minimum
subsistence level this year, The
appropriations so far made by Con-
gress and by the Parliament fall
nearly $200,000,000 short of paying
for the food needs at such a level;
and the supply forecasts of the Inter-
national Emergency Food Council in-
dicate world shortages of grains,
pulses, and other inexpensive foods.

Under these conditions German
food and agriculture authorities fully

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

realize the necessity for forcing the
utmost production out of Germany
herself, It is clear to all that only the
most strenuous efforts to produce in
Germany a maximum portion of her
own food requirements — as well as
a greatly increased rate of import —
can ever sustain the feeding levels
required for German economic recov-
ery.

HE PRELIMINARY Marshall Plan

proposals worked out for the
Paris conferences by US and UK
food-import authorities call for steadi-
ly increasing a beginning 1,800
calory ration level over the four year
period 1948 through 1951 — with a
feeding target reaching 90 percent of
the German prewar dietary standards
(in energy value, though not in qua-
lity) in another four to five years.

It is alread evident that if any such
“normal” feeding standards are ever
to be obtained German agriculture
must necessarily contribute at least
half of the necessary increments over
present inadequate ration levels; and
German industry and trade must pro-
vide export proceeds to finance the
remaining balance which Germany
could never produce hereelf.

To achieve any substantial increase
in present German food production is
not, however, a simple problem, In-
creased food production can come
only from a combination of planting
more actual land in food crops plus
increasing average crop yields. But
prewar Germany had already pushed
the forcing of available land into
agricultural use further than any
other large area; and by intensive
use of labor, fertilizer, and other pro-
duction aids Germany's yields for
most of the major food crops were
among the highest in the world.

Nor is the land surface actually
under cultivation easily increased.
German soil is in general of poor
natural fertility. Both the north Ger-
man plain and the south German
plateau are basically great glacial
deposits of gravel and sand. Only
where alluvium has been locally de-
posited by ancient river channels,
or loess soils spread by wind and
water action, is the land capable of
normal yields without intensive ap-
plication of natural and chemical ferti-
lizers.

Although after World War I it
took ten years for German agricul-
ture to recovery its prewar levels —
the present occupation forces and
German officials are today faced with
the stark necessity of reaching and
exceeding the maximum production
attained by the prewar Nazi admin-
istration within a much shorter
time. The approved crop-planting pro-
gram calls for reaching and exceed-
ing the maximum prewar plantings
by this fall, as well as for greatly
increasing the proportion of planting
in direct food crops, at the expense
of feed and fodder crops.

LTHOUGH THIS is only a target

to shoot at, and yields per acre
will necessarily recover more slowly’
the Marshal Plan proposals sent to
Paris envisage restoration of prewar
peak production levels within four
to five years. This is admittedly a
tremendous assignment — and will
certainly not even be approached
unless German feeding levels and
general German economic activity
and production of consumer goods
be greatly increased by the invesf-
ment of substantially higher levels
of food and raw material imports
into Germany over the coming month.
The lines of organization, however,
which under these circumstances
might accomplish such a maximiz-
ation of German agriculture are al-
ready being worked out,

Always provided requisite money
credits, food imports, and raw ma-
terials are eventually made available
by the occupying powers, it is still
not too late to rebuild an economi-
cally self-sustaining Germany, organ-
ized democratically along lines that
will insure its effectiveness for world
stability and peace,

Cost of Occupation Salaries

Nearly $53,000,000 has been spent
by the United States for salaries for
non-indigehous employees of Military
Government in Germany up to 31 July
1947, Accrued pay of US civilians and
Allied nationals totaled $21,644,558
and approximately $31,105,200 has
been expended for the purpose of
maintaining military personnel as-
signed to MG duties.

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 8 ---
N THE LAST day of July, 1940, Hitler and

his military advisers gathered around a
conference table at the ‘Eagles’ Nest’’ above
Berchtesgaden, and decided to destroy Russia
in the spring of 1941. “With Russia smashed,”
Hitler told his subordinates, “England's last
hope will be gone... Germany then will be
the master of Europe and the Balkans.”

This and other information on Hitler's secret
conferences, remarks about his disagreement
with officers of the German Army and the
Navy, and interesting sidelights on European
political strategy are revealed in a seven-
volume diary kept in German shorthand from
September 1939 until September 1942 by Gen-
eral Franz Halder, German army chief of staff.

j (Photo from PIO, OCCWC)
TRANSLATING and transcribing the seven-volume Halder diary took
Phillip Wilner (above), chief of the German Court Reporting Branch of
the Office of Chief of Counsel for War Crimes in Nuremberg, and his

staff three months to complete.

Halder resigned as army chief of
staff in 1942 and was put under pro-
tective custody in a concentration
camp where he stayed until 1944. He
was living in retirement at the close
of the war when the American forces
arrested him and found his diary. At
present he is employed by the Histor-
ical Division of the European Com-
mand at Neustadt near Kassel. The
Office of Chief of Counsel for War
Crimes in Nuremberg has been tran-
scribing and translating the diary for
possible use as evidence in the war
crimes trials.

According to the diary, the crushing
of Russia was not Hitler's only con-
cern at his July 1940 conference, It
was not enough to destroy England's
“last hope.” He apparently wanted to
crush that country as well, because
at that same meeting Germany's pro-
posed invasion of England was dis-
cussed. Former Admiral of the Fleet
Erich Raeder, who was sentenced to
life imprisonment a year ago by the
International Military Tribunal at

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

Nuremberg for participation in war
crimes and crimes against humanity,
was present at the conference. On
this occasion, he said preparations
for landing in England could be com-
pleted by the following 13 September,
but he added that May or June, 1941,
would be more favorable,

REPARATIONS for England's sub-

jugation were carried on during
the next few months, and on 14 Sep-
tember another conference was held,
this time at “the Fuehrer's” office.
It this meeting, Hitler said, “War
would be ended most promptly by
invasion of England.” He set 27 Sep-
tember as the tentative invasion date.
Since weather conditions and techni-
cal factors were uncertain for the end
of September, 8 October was also to
be considered. Also at this meeting
Hitler touched on the war production
program in the United States. With
egotistical confidence, he remarked,
“America’s rearmaent will not reach
full effect until 1945.”

5

One month later Hitler abandoned
the feverish preparations for invading
across the channel; acknowledged
that the project was a mistake, and
decided Germany would have to
figure out some other way to get at
England. In spite of the necessary
delay in his program for victory,
Hitler, according to Halder’s diary,
boasted that the war was won, and
assured his subordinates that “the rest
is a question of time.”

T THIS SAME period in the war,

14 October 1940, Halder made
some interesting notes about the
Brenner Conference during which the
demands of Germany, Spain, and
Italy were discussed. On this date
the general commented in his diary
that collaboration with Spain was of
interest to Germany only because of
the importance of Gibraltar, and he
stated that the Rock had to be seized
by force of arms. He related how,
at this conference, Hitler introduced
the question of Spain’s payment of

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
indebtedness resulting from the Civil
War. Suave Cerrano Seiner, Spain's
foreign minister, answered “the
Fuehrer” cleverly: “Such mixing of
idealism with materialism is incom-
prehensible for a Spaniard.”

More about Spain and Franco's
wishes to assist Hitler's aggressive
schemes in a surreptitious matter are
noted in the diary on 24 October
1940. Under the heading, “From
conferences with the Fuehrer,” the
general wrote: “The Spanish project
(Gibraltar) is basically not yet quite
clear... Spain is, in principle, willing
to go along; but only when the mili-
tary action really starts does she want
to side with us for all to see.
Although she has promised orally to
join the Axis, nothing has been signed
as yet. There still seems to be con-
siderable fear of England.” _

‘WO VOLUMES of the diary are

devoted to the Russian campaign.
On 3 July 1941, Halder wrote: “...1
guess it is not an overstatement to
declare that the campaign against
Russia has been won within two
weeks.” He added, however, that the
large area and the unyielding resist-
ence of the Russians “will keep us
busy for many more weeks.” Five days
later the diarist made a note of
Hitler's wishes with respect to the
Tuthless methods in store for his
eastern neighbors. “It is the Fuehrer's
firm decision to level Moscow and
Leningrad to the ground and to
Prevent, in this way, people remain-
ing there whom we would have to
feed during the winter... (It must
be) a national catastrophy.”

It did not take the Russians long,
however, to show Hitler and his
generals that. total destruction, or
even defeat, of the USSR was not
nearly so simple as the Germans had
thought. On 8 August 1941, the fifty-
first day of the Russian campaign,
Halder wrote: “It is becoming in-
creasingly .evident that we have
underestimated the Russian Colossus
who deliberately prepared for the war
with the abandon characteristic of
totalitarian states ... At the outset of
the war, we allowed for 200 enemy
divisions, Now We are already count-
ing 360. What if these divisions
are not armed and equipped by our
standards, and their tactical leader-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

ship often is poor? They are here, and
if we smash a dozen, the Russian
simply puts up another dozen. He has
the time to do it because he is close
to his power resources, while we are
putting an ever greater distance
between us and our resources, And
so, our troops, thinly spread as they
are, have no respite from the enemy's
attacks no matter what their
depth...”

PRINKLED throughout the diary

are remarks that demonstrate the
resentment Halder and other Wehr-
macht generals felt jat Hitler’s inter-
ference in tactical problems in the
field, and their contempt for his habit
of seemingly dissapproving their ideas
and then incorporating the same plans
in “instructions from the Fuehrer.”
On 6 June 1940, during the campaign
through France, Halder remarked,
“The Fuehrer considers the change-
over to the operation as proposed by
me as too risky at this time. He
wants to be sure... In other words,
it is the old story. One does not have
the courage to make a great move
toward a great objective. Instead,
one performs minor manipulations,
hiding behind the allegation that
there is no hurry. Anyhow, we can
expect to get the same idea, which
we have presented today, back within
36 or 48 hours, contained in an in-
struction from higher headquarters.”
Four days later the diarist commented
in the same vein: “If it were not
so funny, one could cry. What I had
proposed several days ago, is now
coming out, step by step... as an
idea of the very highest leadership.”

'N THE FIRST month of the advance

through Russia, after Hitler had ex-
pressed his displeasure over the
movement of a certain panzer group,
Halder wrote: “The constant inter-
ference of the Fuehrer in things of
which he does not know the inside is
becoming a plague which is getting
to be unbearable.”

In July of 1942, when the Russian
campaign was in its second year,
Halder penned these bitter words:
“The Fuehrer does not want to release
from the west the SS Adolf Hitler
Division, which would be an important
factor in the attack of ist Tank Army.
Let's hope we won't have to pay
dearly for that!”

(Continued from Page 2)
Review

arrests occurred in all Laender except
Bavaria where there was no marked
change. In Bremen there was an in-
crease in arrests for theft offenses and
illegal possession of Allied property.
In Bavaria, increased police patrols
are being conducted to prevent the
theft of crops and vegetables at the
outskirts of towns.

BORDER CONTROL—Soviet border
authorities have refused to accept
the return to the Soviet Zone of ille-
gal border crossers through the
refugee exchange point at Hof, Ba-
varia, and border control agencies
were advised to: discontinue until
further notice sending such indivi-
duals to Hof. The control of per-
sons infiltrating into Hesse from’ the
Soviet Zone continues to be the chief
Occupation of the Hesse border
police,

EDUCATION—Schools . throughout
the US Zone and Berlin Sector are
beginning their fall terms... Short-
ages of coal and school furniture
still make school operation difficult
in the Laender; in addition, labor is
scarce and bookcover and binding
materials are short. Military Govern-
ment is making special efforts to
Procure necessary stocks to com-
plete the books.

YOUTH ACTIVITIES—Under the
sponsorship of the Swedish Govern-
ment and with the cooperation of
youth officials of Military Govern-
ment, the Swedish Girl Scout Council
has selected 12 Girl Scout leaders to
go to Sweden for a month of train-
ing. By giving the leaders the
necessary skill to work with youth,
such leadership training programs
are contributing significantly: to the
effective development of girls’ acti-
vities in the US Zone.

FILM—The number of movie thea-
ters totaled 1,010 in the US Areas
of Control on 31 August, distributed
as follows: Bavaria 464, Hesse 262,
Wuerttemberg-Baden 182, Berlin
Sector 64, and Bremen 38. These
theaters have a total seating capa-
city of 377,899. The critical shortage
of film rawstock was relieved by the
receipt of 4,000,000 feet of positive
film from the War Department for
the use in documentary prints,

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
FOREIGN TRADE BASED ON REICHSMARK

Export-Import Pricing of US Zone Extended to Bizonal Area on Fact
That German Internal Economy is Mainly Isolated From Outside World

ASED ON THE FACT that the Ger-

man internal economy is mainly
isolated from the outside world, the
directive, “Concerning Reichsmark
Prices in Foreign Trade,” was pro-
mulgated by the Main Price Depart-
ment of the Bizonal Executive Com-
mittee for Economics to extend to the
Combined US/UK Zones the essential
features followed in the US Zone since
export-import pricing was first defined
in 1945. With no exchange rate, there
has been and there is not yet any
general bridge between the German
internal price structure and prices
abroad.

This directive lays down the prin-
ciple that all imported and exported
goods and services will be priced in
Reichsmarks in accordance with the
German price law currently in force
for domestic transactions. The Ger-
man price authorities of the economics
committee have thus vetoed sugges-
tions of certain German manufacturers
and chambers of industry and com-
merce that exports be exempt from
the provisions of German price law.
Legally, exports are sales by German
exporting firms to German govern-
mental agencies, and not, as are nor-
mal export transactions, sales to non-
Germans.

lso, German policy is to grant price

adjustments to German manu-
facturing firms on the merits of their
claims of increased costs for their
whole output, without trying to apply
two sets of price increase criteria for
domestic and export sales. In the
face of anti-dumping legislation in
foreign countries, including the United
States, the German price authorities
of the economics committee have
turned down proposals for an outright
export bonus in Reichsmarks of 10 or
20 percent. However, special costs
encountered in foreign trade but not
in domestic sales can be taken into
account.

AS TO EXPORTS, there can be no
basic differential between domes-
tic and export prices. The lawful

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

home market price for an identical or
comparable item at the time of deliv-
ery at the frontier is the basis of
pricing. To this price a wholesale
margin is added at the rate usual in
the industry concerned. In addition,
export costs (selling, packing), which
are not included in the price of similar
articles sold domestically, may be
added. The actual working out of the
export price in accordance with these
regulations is left to the exportes,
subject to review.

As to imports, the same principle is
followed. Imported goods are valued
at the lawful domestic German price
for comparable items at the frontier.
Import costs not reflected in corre-
sponding domestic prices may be paid
to the importer out of the Reichsmark
sums collected by the Foreign Trade
Clearing Offices. Subsequent transfers
of imported articles are handled in
accordance with German price law
exactly as though the articles were of
German origin. Normally, initial
Reichsmark import prices will be
established by the bizonal price
authorities, who reserve the right to
handle import prices at variance with
the general rule.

AN INTERZONAL philosophers’ congress was held at Garmisch-Partenkirchen

HERE FOREIGN GOODS are

imported for reexport after
processing, refining, or repair, the
value of the processing is computed in
conformity with legal price regu-
lations. The work is regarded as an
export transaction, and payment in
Reichsmarks is received from the For-
eign Trade Clearing Office.

Where there is no legal German
processing formula, the value of the
processing is computed by subtracting
the appraised Reichsmark value of the
imported item from the legal home
market price of a comparable finished
item. Where processing in Germany
is compensated for in full or in part
by the delivery from abroad of goods,
the payment “in kind” is regarded as
an import, and its Reichsmark value
is subtracted from the value of the
finished goods exported.

If the Reichsmark value of the pay-
ment in kind is less than the Reichs-
mark value of the processing service,
the difference will be treated as a
straight export transaction. If the
Reichsmark valu- of the payment in
kind is greater than the Reichsmark
value of the German processing, the
difference is considered an import,

(Continued on Page 15)

—the first since the war. Among the guesis were (left io right) Prof. Nicolai Hart-
mann of Goettingen, Dr. Alois Wenzel of Munich and Prof. Linke of Jena.
(DENA Bild)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
T THE OPENING of the Hanover Trade Fail
A August, Lawrence Wilkinson, director of the
nomics Division, OMGUS, told of a Hanoverian wit
asked: ‘What is the difference between the black marke
and a trade fair?" The answer to the riddle was ‘In th
black market there is nothing on display, but you ¢
buy anything you want."

In exaggeration form this is the basic problem faci
German, British, and American officials whose joD
is to help German economy to its feet through expo
Foreign businessmen will be willing to resume tral
ties again with German manufacturers on a large sd
only when they know their orders will be filled i
specified time and with quality products.

Cut off from normal channels of communication Wi
the outside world, Germany has become an unknow
quantity. Other countries do not know what Germany ¥

|

--- Page 12 ---
be able to produce or how soon. Businessmen outside Germany have lost
track of their old contacts with German manufacturies; the war caused
a complete disruption of these economic communications.

O MEND these threads of contact and to show what postwar Ger-

many has to offer, the US/UK Zones have held trade fairs in
Hanover, Munich, Stuttgart, and Wiesbaden. By gradually culling out
those manufacturers which cannot yet live up to contract deadlines,
these fairs are proving to the outside world—and to the Germans
themselves—that German industry has begun the slow climb back to
export production in a peaceful economy.

Germany's present export mainly consists of bulk products such as
coal, wood, hops—raw materials which might also be used for manufactur-
ing export merchandise. Gradually, however, isolated groups of
finished products are coming to the fore as materials which can now
be produced in quantities large enough for export, such as cameras,
ceramics, toys, motor vehicles and equipment, textiles, chemicals, electric
goods, and machinery. These products will be produced in increasingly

--- Page 13 ---
large quantities when essential raw
materials are available.

But lack of raw materials is not
the only obstacle created by the war.
For the exchange of goods, trade and
clearing agreements are necessary
particularly with European countries
which formerly took up to 80 percent
of Germany’s expor: trade but now
are handicapped by lack of foreign
exchange. Twelve trade agreements
have been concluded ,but many more
are needed so that German trade con-
nections will not be lost. The fact
that Germany is split economically
into zones, that there are detailed
regulations governing trade—all com-
plicate the export picture. Fortunately,
through the medium of the zonal trade
fair these problems have been brought
tothe surface so that practical so-
lutions can be worked out.

HEN THE FAIRS first were
opened they were naturally ona
modest scale. The Bavarian Export Ex-
hibit at Munich was an early sign of the
gradual recovery of Germany as an
exporting nation. When this fair be-
gan 15 months ago, it occupied only
a few rooms in the Haus der Kunst.
Since then, the exhibition has ex-
panded over two floors in one wing of
the building, and into the adjacent
English Gardens. Here, a whole “ex-
port village” was on display, featur-
ing prefabricated houses and furniture
which can be manufactured in Bavaria.
Last year, the exhibit primarily was
of handicraft. Today, it displays toys,
chemical products, china and glass,
textiles, fine machinery, cameras, and
electro-medical equipment—an indica-

ILLUSTRATIONS on pages 8 and 9
(and source credits): (Top center)
Entrance to Hanover Fair (Byers) and
House of German Art in Munich
(Army Signal Corps). (Upper left) Bell
exhibit at Hanover (Byers). (Middle
left) Diver's suit at Hanover (Byers).
(Lower left) Decorative, festive candles
at Hessian Trade and Industry Ex-
position, Wiesbaden (Army Signal
Corps). (Lower center left) Electric toy
trains and building sets at Stuttgart
Exhibit (Byers). (Lower center right)
Model of bridge construction at
Hanover (Byers). (Lower right) Wood-
carving at Munich (Walter Brunner).
(Middle right) Fashions modeling at
Munich (Brunner). (In.circles) Views
of porcelain, brewing, and electrical
machinery displays at Munich (WIB
staff)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN,

tion of the expansion which has oc-
curred in one year in the manufactur-
ing plants of southern Germany.

The toy industry is: an example.
Before the war, Bavaria, Saxony, Thu-
ringia, and the Erzgebirge were the
centers of this manufacture. During
the war, more than 50 percent of the
plants were destroyed. Toy manu-
facturers after the war found them-
selves out of touch with the tastes
and interests of the countries to whom
they would be exporting. Gradually,
through trade fairs and other means,
contacts with foreign markets were
established, and the toy industry
embarked upon a new program featur-
ing intricate mechanical toys which
appeal to the imagination of children
living in a streamlined age.

SIMILAR story can be told about

the ceramics and glassware in-
dustries. A year ago at the Munich
export fair they were just beginning
to emerge from the paralysis of war;
today they have adapted themselves
to the needs of the foreign buyer. Last
year the chinaware exhibit consisted
almost exclusively of expensive
luxury dinnerware. Now the plants
are turning out utility china, earthen-
ware and heat-resistant china—pro-
ducts which the world needs. The
well known German porcelain and
ceramic names like Nymphenburg,
Rosenthal, and Fuerstenberg soon will
be associated not just with the most
luxurious of china products but also
with attractive-but-inexpensive goods
which are in greater demand. Glass-
ware plants also have caught up with
the times—graduating from heavy, ex-
pensive cutglass objects to modern
crystal and stemware. And export
buyers at the Munich fair have ap-
proved the transformation by choos-
ing over $2,000,000 worth of glass and
china during the past 15 months.

The textile industry in the two
zones also has shifted emphasis. Last
year finished clothing was the largest
textile item on display at the Munich
fair. This year, following the demand
for woolen and cotton whole cloth,
displays at Munich and Hanover are
made up largely of fabric. The fact
that German styles are outmoded ac-
cording to western standards may
account for this change.

The textile industry as a whole is
greatly handicapped because it must

10

depend almost exclusively upon im-
ports of raw materials. Since the ne-
cessary foreign .exchanges for the
buying of wool and cotton are not
available, companies in the United
States and Britain have furnished raw
cotton of various grades to be con-
verted into goods. A part of the or-
ders placed in the US/UK Zones by
British firms has been earmarked for
re-export to Africa. There are enough
orders for textiles for England alone
to keep many mills operating at ca-
pacity for some time. Similar con-
tracts were made with Sweden, who
is furnishing cellulose wood to Ger-
man textile companies,

F AGREEMENTS can be made in

which the foreign country will furnish
raw materials in advance, German
textile firms will be able to rebuild
this branch of her industry in record
time. However, Germany has yet to
bring her styles in cloth designs and
finished dress products up to modern
standards if she is to sell in large
quantities to western countries.

In all, 400 firms in 15 different in-
dustrial groups display their products
at Munich. This fall, Hanover held an
export fair which accommodated three
times as many exhibitors. The swift-
ness with which the modern, well-
designed industrial show was organiz-
ed is an indication of how quickly
Germany’s economy could recover,
given materials and direction.

Hanover was approximately 60 per-
cent destroyed by the war; its food
ration—like that of the rest of Ger-
many—is well under prewar stand-
ards; yet in three months an entire
plant was dismantled and its build-
ings turned into exhibition halls; spe-
cial restaurants, booths, and gardens
were built; flags of all nations hung;
until the whole brisk pace resembled
that of a fair in the United States. Ex-
hibits included electrical machinery
and equipment and electrical domestic
appliances; fine mechanical and opti-
cal instruments and equipment; medi-
cal, surgical and dental apparatus and
instruments; light and metal products
and hardware; general machinery;
agricultural machinery; building ma-
chinery; printing machinery and gra-
phical products; food processing ma-
chinery; textiles and clothing; cera-
mics, glass, and woodware; leather

(Continued on Page 15)

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
GERMANY — KEY TO EUROPEAN RECOVERY

Steps Necessary to Overcome Problems Outlined by US State Department
Official in Speech before International Organization in Philadelphia

ERMANY must contribute its

share to the over-all production
increase which is the key to European
recovery, said Charles E. Saltzman,
US assistant secretary of state for oc-
cupied areas, in addressing delegates
and observers from 25 nations at the
International Council of Women meet-
ing in Philadelphia.

Describing the problems of Euro-
pean recovery and outlining steps al-
ready taken and those still necessary
to overcome them, Mr. Saltzman em-
phasized the determination of the
United States to limit German in-
dustrial development to a point short
of war potential. “We reaffirm our
determination to see to it that the
terms of the four-power agreement on
demilitarization of Germany are re-
spected,” he asserted.
~The present low ebb of the world’s
economy can be attributed to the
factors arising directly from the war
and to other factors which have im-
peded and retarded’ the recovery
efforts, Mr. Saltzman said. After list-
ing coal, transportation, and food as
the principal physical factors delay-
ing European recovery, he declared:

“In simple languag2, the situation
amounts to this: Most countries need
goods in large quantities, but they do
not have the necessary foreign ex-
change to pay for them. And they
are unable to obtain foreign exchanges
because their productivity is not high
enough to give them an export sur-
plus. Finally to complete this vicious
circle, the financial resources of
Europe are so depleted that few, if
any, countries are in a position to
extend credit to others.”

MOST IMPORTANT factor in
tetardation of European recovery,

he said, is the low level of operations
in Germany, which had formerly been
the nerve center of Europe’s trade,
important producer of iron, steel and
coal, a purchaser of raw materials and
food from other parts of the continent
and a major supplier of manufactured
goods to the majority of continental

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

countries. The effect of the virtual
disappearance of Germany from the
European economy, Mr. Saltzman said,
could be seen in the case of the
Netherlands, nearly one-fifth of whose
trade was conducted with Germany
before the war. He said the Dutch
industrial production is “stagnating”
from lack of spare parts, equipment,
and materials of all types formerly
supplied by Germany.

“As long as German production is
less than half of prewar, and with her
trade lagging far behind even that
low level, there can be no recovery
for Europe,” he declared.

Mr. Saltzman reviewed the US
activity and policy in aiding European
reconstruction, saying in part:

“In this unhappy situation, what
has been the record of the United
States? We have sought to cooperate
with all nations in an atmosphere of
genuine friendliness, both within the
United Nations and through normal
diplomatic and commercial channels.
We have made substantial contri-
butions to programs of emergency re-
lief through loans, grants, credits, and
disposal of surplus property. And we
have proposed and joined in financing
plans designed to promote economic

US Fidelity to United Nations

UR "fidelity to the United

Nations”... goes deep. Our
faith in the United Nations has its
roots in the basic moral values and
spiritual aspirations of the American
people. These aspirations of ours are
identical with the purposes and prin-
ciples of the UN Charter.

The late President Roosevelt had
this in mind when he spoke of
freedom of speech and expression,
freedom of worship, freedom from
want, and freedom from fear—every-
where in the world.

How do we translate these general
principles into practical terms? What
precisely does our support for the
United Nations mean?

First, it means that we ourselves
must faithfully live up to our obli-
gations under the Charter.

Second, it means that our public
acts must be consistent with the
Charter, whether they are carried out
through the United Nations or through
other means.

Third, it means that we must refer
to the United Nations problems which
have failed of solution by other
peaceful means and which require
solution under the Charter.

Fourth, it means that we must work
persistently and loyally within the

11

several organs and agencies within
the United Nations toward the
successful accomplishment of their
assigned tasks.
Fifth, it means that we must seek
to improve the procedures and
machinery of the United Nations
Organization itself and to join with
others in providing the resources
which are necessary for its efficiency.
Sixth, it means that-we must join
with other members to make it un-
mistakably clear that aggression
against the territorial integrity or
political independence of others, will
be resisted by the combined efforts of
the members of the United Nations.
Seventh, it means that we must
exert every possible effort to conclude
the remaining peace treaties, thereby
creating the normal conditions under
which the United Nations was designed
to function, It is intended to function.
It is intended to maintain peace, not
to make peace, after this war.
Eighth, it means that we join with
others in seeking to improve the
world’s economic situation, to bring
about the economic conditions ne-
cessary to international stability.

Secretary of State Marshall in
New York speech 14 September

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
stability and world-wide prosperity
on a long-term basis. The International
Bank, International Monetary Fund,
and International Trade Organization,
which has been proposed by the
United States for the fundamental
purpose of expanding world commerce
through breaking down barriers to
trade, are cases in point.

44 (MINCE THE END of fighting, the
United States has made available
to European relief and reconstruction
grants and credits in the amount of
nearly $11,000,000,000, of which more
than $8,000,000,000 had been expended
up to 30 June 1947, Finally, we have
consistently endeavored to establish,
in collaboration with other nations,
those conditions—political, economic
and social—that will enable the
peoples of the earth to live together
in peace and increased well-being.
“But in spite of our strenuous
efforts, combined with those of other
countries working toward the same
objectives, we, in this country must
not lose sight oft the sober fact that
the world today is still in a critical
condition from the effects of war. In
the first place, there has been some
underestimation of the extent of the
price rises in this country. Second,
because of tremendous need, aid has
necessarily been concentrated on re-
lief, rather than on recovery and re-

construction. In addition, there has
been a lack of wholehearted inter-
national cooperation, due to differ-
ences in national interest, political dis-
agreement, and lack of appreciation
of economic interdependence of Euro-
pean well-being. In its most acute
form, this lack of cooperation has
appeared to be positive obstructionism.

“Tt is for this reason that Secretary
Marshall proposed that Europe take
the initiative in making an inventory
of the maximum resources it could
utilize in effecting its own recovery,
and in estimating the minimum ad-
ditional resources required to supple-
ment is own money, goods, and labor
in order to get the job done.

4I'TYRODUCTION is the key to Euro-

pean recovery and Germany has
its part to play in the over-all in-
crease required. For more than two
years the United States has attempted
to obtain implementation of the Pots-
dam agreement to treat Germany as a
single economic unit and improve the
level of industrial production but with
little success.

“The recent directive to General
Lucius Clay, and the joint decision
calling for a higher level of industry
in the British-American Zones of Ger-
many are confirmation of the fact that
the United States does not intend to
wait longer to fulfill its obligation

BOOKS DEALING with Switzerland were contributed to DENA, US-licensed

German news agency, by the Swiss consulate in Frankfurt-am-Main. The pre-

sentation took place in Bad Nauheim. Shown examining the books are (left to

tight) DENA reporter Kurt Klinger, John Stuart, chief control officer of DENA;

Paul Hochstrasser, Swiss consul; Prof. Rudolf Agricola, and chief editor Walter
Fritze. (DENA Bild)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

under the terms of the Potsdam Agree-
ment. These actions served notice
that further needless delays would not
be tolerated.

“On the other hand, these actions
do not, by any stretch of the imagi-
nation, mean or imply that the United
States will condone the development
of industry in Germany to the point
where it will be a potential or even
threat to peace. We reaffirm our
determination to see to it that the
terms of the Four-Power agreement
on demilitarization of Germany are
tespected.

“We cannot deny the Germans
economic hope, and we must see to
it that they have means to provide
themselves with a decent living, but
at the same time, a standard of living
that, as set forth in the Potsdam
Agreement, is not higher than that of
Europe as whole.

4¢TN THIS CONNECTION, Secretary
Marshall stated the American
policy during the conference of For-
eign Ministers at Moscow in these
words: ‘The United States is opposed
to policies which will continue Ger-
many as a congested slum or an eco-
nomic poorhouse in the center of
Europe... We want Germany to use
its resources of skilled manpower,
energy, and industrial capacity to re-
build a network of trade on which
European property depends; ulti-
mately we desire to see a peaceful
Germany, with strong democratic
roots, take its place in the European

and world community of nations.’
“These are objectives of a free
people who believe in the power and
tesponsibilities of freedom—who are
convinced that the more broadly these
principles are applied, the more
abundantly will people everywhere
prosper and live in peace. These are
the objectives of a people who be-
lieve that enterprise and production
are the way to a richer life—who be-
lieve that fair dealing and cooperation
are true paths to peace and prosperity.
These are the objectives of a people
who believe that any totalitarian rule
by fear, force, and fraud will event-
ually be found out for just what it is.
These are the objectives of a people,
who with other freedom-loving peoples,
are prepared to make sacrifices now
in behalf of peace rather than invite
(Continued on Page 15)

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 16 ---
HE landing of the Jews from the
“Exodus” at Hamburg early this
month prompted the German licensed
press of the US Zone to call on the
German people to make amends for
their attitude during the Nazi regime.
Excerpts from these editorials follow:
The Wiesbadener Kurier: “There
is much talk in Germany about the
solemn duty of making amends for
the millions of murdered people.
Here one could have made amends.
We waited for that German Land, for
that German city which would wel-
come these 4,300 homeless men,
women, and children, these wander-
ing Jews of 1947, with the words:
‘Come to us, you will find here a
new, a real home. We will give you
a room to live in, a few pieces of
furniture and the most necessary
things for living. As to work you
will find plenty in devastated Ger-
many.’

“This willingness for making good,
in our opinion, would have helped to
efface in the hearts of a few people
what has been sinned against their
whole race. We did not hear that
word. Germany kept silent, where
she should have spoken...

“Now, we want to take the initia-
tive: if any land, city, or village
wishes to give these victims of racial
mania a home, the Wiesbadener
Kurier will contribute 28,000 marks to
the expense of this restitution, And
‘we appeal to anybody who has pre-
served in his heart the ability to feel
for the sufferings of others to join
with us!”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung: “Weighed
against the number and horror of the
crimes committed by Germans under
the Hitler dictatorship the very term
‘restitution’ becomes a_ hollow
mockery. You cannot make amends
for so much outrage against human
dignity... and you cannot make
testitutions to the dead.

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

Aid Urged for ‘Exodus’ Jews

“But we should have proved to the
survivors that we are ashamed and
that we are willing to atone at least
symbolically by demonstratively
giving preference to them (even if
they are DP’s), by honoring them and
by handling their claims for damage
promptly and generously.

“Unfortunately, there has been
very little of all this, It took the
Laenderrat two years to pass a ‘Com-
pensation Law’ last March, and there
has been no further mention of it
since... So we needn't be surprised
if the world doesn't believe that the
Germans have changed.”

In a different editorial approach,
the Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel)
said: “Their being sent back to Ger-
many must have been like a blow in
the face. The bombed and desolate
harbor of Hamburg must have ap-
peared like Dante’s entrance to hell
with the inscription: ‘Leave all hope
behind youl’... Paradoxically as it
may seem: We Germans—with the
stains of intolerance and guilt on us—
can perhaps feel more deeply the
greatness of this despair, because we
know what it is like to live in this
hell... We do not believe that Ger-
many will remain silent, when it
realizes the whole extent of this trag-
edy of misery.”

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
teaders among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not ne-
cessarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

13

of the US-licensed newspapers met at
Coburg, Bavaria, from 4—7 September
to discuss common problems and to
hear representatives of the US, French,
Swedish, Dutch, and Swiss press. Two
Prominent Americans, Mr. Eugene
Meyer, publisher of the Washington
Post, and Mr. Geoffrey Parsons, Jr.,
editor of the Paris edition of the New
York Herald Tribune, addressed the
convention. This was the first time
publishers of US-licensed newspapers
were present with a group of foreign
newspaper editors at a convention.

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung in an
editorial on the Coburg Press Con-
ference said:

“The German press must keep itself
independent of any government in-
fluence. The press must get leading
government officials accustomed to
the idea that a government must al-
ways be subject to criticism if it is
not to become master rather than
servant of the social order from which
it has sprung. The press must awaken
and develop in the great majority of
the German people a feeling of per-
sonal responsibility for its govern-
ment and its actions. Otherwise Ger-
many will always represent a danger
for the world.”

The article pointed out that German
officialdom was still prone to regard
objective criticism as a personal
attack. There was little realization
that a newspaper neglected its duty
if it did not regard its government and
its acts with a certain amount of
scepticism.

“To some extent newspapers which
consistently publish unpopular truths
are today almost as isolated as they
were in the twelve years when they
were compelled to silence.”

The Heilbronner Stimme called the
conference “a milestone in the devel-
opment of our embattled press... For
the first time one had the feeling that
these papers are no longer more or
less successful attempts, on certain
ventures (as their numerous enemies
in the government and parties eagerly

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
declare), but that they have won
stability; that they are on the way to
get the indispensable legal and eco-
nomic basis without which a news-
paper cannot remain permanently in-
dependent...

“German correspondents will be
permitted to participate at the great
diplomatic conferences...

“The silence has been broken—a
beginning has been made. That is the
dominating impression we brought
back from Coburg.”

The Frankfurter Neue Presse re-
plied to a letter-to-the-editor that ex-
pressed scepticism about the fine
speeches made at Coburg. The paper
said the mere fact that foreigners
appeared there was ground for hope:

“More and more foreign leaders in
politics, intellectual circles, and
public relations are coming here to
see and report and to discuss such
matters with us... Such men as Mr.
Meyer, editor-in-chief of one of the
most important American papers,
carry their messages to millions in
their home countries and mobilize
sentiment there. It is the duty of our
press to maintain courage... The
doors and windows to the world are
beginning to open again.”

Gordian Knot in Ruhr
The Mannheimer Morgen said that
“at the Ruhr a Gordian Knot exists
that possibly may be undone with the
sword; but the same sword will split
Germany and the world in halves.”
It continued:

“General Clay announced at the
24th Laenderrat meeting that the US
has achieved her high living standard
and free conditions of life only
through her free enterprise. That does
not mean that the United States in-
tends to dictate to the German people
in regard to her form of economy.
But it does mean that for the time
being the economic system of the
Ruhr will continue in a state of
private-capitalistic suspension...

“The new industrial plan has been
shaped with the intention of undoing
the knot peacefully. It will be able to
count on the support of every pa-
triotic German—as General Clay wish-
ed—on that day when it becomes
evident that it will not result in two
Germanys, two Europes, two worlds,”

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten warned
that the psychological factor must not
be overlooked in the Ruhr, saying:

“Ruhr workers are politically-mind-
ed. They will ask themselves for
whom this increased production is to
be... General Clay has said that,
although America prefers private
enterprise, democracy. comes first.
This obviously means that Germans
themselves will have to decide for or
against socialization... It should be
made clear that under no circum-
stances will the Ruhr be returned to
their former owners... The interests
of the many must precede the inter-
ests of the few... Cooperation in pro-
duction and just distribution does not
necessarily mean nationalization.”

Victims of Nazism

The Wuerttembergisches Zeit-Echo
(Schwaebisch-Hall) explained the ori-
gin of the VVN (Association of the
Victims of Nazism):

“At the gallows, in the quarries,
barracks and Gestapo cellars—every-
where where brave fighters against
the Nazi dictatorship were murdered,
the survivors vowed: ‘You will not ie
forgotten, the fight goes on!’ Those
who returned from prisons and con-
centration camps are keeping that
oath and with them all those who are
convinced that the struggle for the
liberation of the German people from
militarism and Nazism is not yet
ended. For that reason about 800,000
survivors have joined in the VVN.”

The article gave some statistics
about the millions that were arrested
by the Gestapo, and the hundreds of
thousands that were convicted of
political crimes. But it has to admit:
“Only very slowly do our people be-
gin to recognize the great historical
merits that those who resisted acquir-
ed for their people.”

In the Darmstaedter Echo, Hans J.
Reinowski used the Day of the Vic-
tims of Nazism for a moving plea for
Germany. He told of .the desperate
struggle of the German emigrants—of
whom he was one—to convince the
world what Hitlerism meant:

“We know of hundreds of thou-
sands in concentration camps... We
could confound the murderers who
claimed that ours were ‘atrocity fairy
tales’ by sworn statements and docu-
mentary evidence...

14

“To be frank: we mostly preached
to deaf ears. People were disturbed
by our noise. They did not believe
us. They wanted to go after their
daily bread in peace...

“Pardon me, dear sir, what-you say
about Hitler-Germany can’t be true.
We went to the Olympic Games and
got as far as Wernigerode, but we
nowhere discovered anything that
looked like terrorism or concentration
camps. On the contrary! All Germans
were enthusiastic about the Fuehrer.
The SS-men treated us very nicely
and looked very smart.’)

“Then at the end of the war, when
the concentration camps were opened
and millions of non-German victims
were found, the world put the entire
blame on the Germans:

“You Germans must have known.
‘We can’t understand that in Germany
no hand was raised to fight this in-
sanity. In our country that would
have been impossible. You Germans
are a wicked, evil nation!’

“But fortunately ten thousands re-
gained freedom. They bore witness
that our nation in her disgrace pos-
sessed heroes to be proud of... And
we experienced the great happiness
to see many hone3t men rise up in
foreign countries as witnesses for
these facts.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung said:
“Much more discouraging... is the
refusal of so many to take cognizance
of the 11,000,000 victims of Nazi
bestiality. In many cases this is
simply a childish hide-and-seek game
that people play with themselves. The
whole world knows and millions of
relatives and comrades-in-suffering
who happened to remain alive testify
as to what has been committed by
monsters who called themselves
Germans.

“But those (of whom we are speak-
ing) regard it as their duty toward
national honor to close their mind
and conscience against facts that they
cannot deny... But the 11 million
dead will not be silenced. They will
not give us peace until they have
effected a change in our feeling,
thinking and acting which will for
ever make impossible the recurrence
of conditions which led to. the fate
that they suffered.”

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 18 ---
(Continued from Page 7)

Foreign Trade

and a corresponding Reichsmark pay-
ment is made to the Foreign Trade
Clearing Office.

(E GERMAN Foreign Trade Clear-

ing Offices acting under the super-
vision of the Joint Export/Import and
Exchange Control Agencies, pay
Reichsmark to German manufacturers
for the full amount of their export
shipments, with the exports valued as
if sold on the German internal market.
German importers pay Reichsmark to
these German Foreign Trade Clearing
Offices to the full domestic value of
the imported goods, as if they were
of German origin.

Thus, despite the absence of an ex-
change rate and disparities between
the foreign and German price levels,
import and export transactions are
fitted readily into the working
structure of German controlled prices.
As long as imports into Germany
greatly exceed in value (in dollars or
Reichsmark) exports from Germany,
the German Foreign Trade Clearing
Offices accumulate very substantial
Reichsmark balances. To all effects
and purposes, these amounts are
blocked or sterilized: they are out of
the money supply, out of the banking
system, and entirely out of the current
budgets of the Laender of the com-
bined area.

(Continued from Page 10)
Bizonal Exports

goods; plastics and rubber products;
pharmaceuticals, dyestuffs, and chemi-
cals,

GUARD against displaying goods
TS the fair which could be merely
seen but not bought, all 1,200 ex-
hibitors were cleared by German and
MG officials as to their ability to pro-
duce. It was the policy of these offi-
cials that no company could show its
product which was unable to turn out
goods.

Hanover’s fair was a revelation of
Germany's industrial development of
indicating items Germany can produce
to help meet the needs of a motorized
the past year. Modern products were
achieved, especially in the motor
vehicle line—trailers, _ refrigerator
trucks, spare parts for motor cars—
world. Comparative figures from pre

29 SEPTEMBER 1947

war days show that motor vehicles
were used abroad to a much larger
extent than in Germany. While there
was only one automobile for every
44 persons in Germany, there was one
for every 20 persons in Britain, one
for every 19 in France, and for every
four persons in the United States.

The export figures of the last three
years before the war show a growing
demand for German cars abroad. In
1936, the export figure for German
autos was RM 75,600,000; in 1937,
RM _ 135,800,000; and in 1938 Reichs-
mark 147,200,000.

Since the war, this industry has
shown a steady revival. In 1946, there
were 21,000 motor vehicles and 3,320
trailers turned out in the British Zone,
In the US Zone during the last quarter
of the same year 478 trucks and 370
motor cycles were produced. With
Europe’s needs for these products at
a high level this field should have
interesting export prospects for Ger-
many.

IHROUGH THE trade fairs and ex-

hibits, it is apparent that Ger-
many's hopes for export no longer
belong in the realm of dreams.
Gradually, the way is being mapped
toward a working industrial economy.
But the present years are critical.
Now, world trade ties are taking
shape and if Germany is to take part
in them she must be able to contribute
goods during these formative years.
It will be an uphill struggle to eke
out sufficient raw materials, to battle
transportation deficiencies and coal
shortages, but if Germany industry
continues to receive positive encour-
agement from the occupying powers
it gradually will assume importance
in the export world.

(Continued from Page 12)
Germany

greater sacrifices that would be de-
manded by a third world war.

4“¢*@@ ACRIFICES we must make for

peace for they are a small price
to pay for the benefits and rewards
of freedom. Acceptance of the re-
quisite sacrifices is a test of the
moral strength of a nation—strength
which, in final analysis is rooted in
the national character. It is equally
true that the survival capacity of a

15

free and unregimented civilization
depends upon the character of those
who choose it against all other
systems. :

“The -choice we make today will
shape the destiny of human kind for
generations to come.”

German Red Cross
Handles PW Parcels

OCAL AND LAND German Red

Cross units in the US Zone and
the US Sector of Berlin are authorized,
when adequate parcel post service
does not exist, to collect parcels con-
taining comfort articles from the next-
of-kin of German prisoners of war
held outside Germany and to export
such parcels by rail or other means
of transportation, to prisoner of war
camps in countries outside of Ger-
many through the facilities of the In-
ternational Committtee of the Red
Cross, according to OMGUS letter,
AG 010.6, “Advance Copy of Change
7 to Title 7, Public Welfare,” 10 Sep-
tember 1947.

The International Committee of
the Red Cross will produce documents
indicating that the country holding
the prisoners of war affected will
accept the proposed shipment. Pre-
paration, collection, and shipment of
such parcels will be subject to the
following conditions:

Parcels shall not exceed 22 pounds
in weight, nor shall more than one
parcel be directed to a single recipient
in any one shipment.

Food, jewelry, precious stones and
metals, medical supplies, articles of
export potential and articles which
have been imported into the US Zone
or articles of a similar nature shall
not be included in such parcels.

An itemized list of contents, certified
by the sender, shall be attached to
each parcel. Lists will be reviewed
and certified by officials of the Ger-
man Red Cross societies sponsoring
the collection of parcels.

Spot checks of parcels in each ship-
ment will be made by representatives
of the International Committee of the
Red Cross to ensure conformity with
these requirements and with other
Military Government Regulations, The
International Committee of the Red
Cross will be responsible for attesting
that each shipment is valid.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Change 25 to Title 23, Military
Government Legislation, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 26 July 1947, Lists legis-
lation superseded and reprinted and
gives recent legislation.

European Command Technical Ser-
vice Organization, AG 322 GSP-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 21 August 1947, Amends
inclosure 1 to letters AG 322 GDS-
AGO, 5 April 1947.

Declassification of Documents, AG
312.1 AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 September
1947, Gives list of correspondence to
be declassified as of 2 July 1947. ~

Weekly Directive No. 4, Hq
EUCOM, 5 September 1947. Contains
following sections

Sec I — Closeout of Nurnberg Sig-
nal Depot, AG 322 SIG,

Sec II— Assignment of Air Force
Officers, AG 210.3 GPA, States when
assigned to non-Air Force units they
may be expected to serve for the nor-
mal three years from date of assign-
ment to Hq EUCOM.

Sec III — Conservation of Paper
Bags, AG 462 CGM. Concerns the re-
using of paper bags because of the
paper shortage.

Sec IV— Exchange of Officer Type
Restee Spaces Between USFA and
EUCOM, AG 510 GPA. Cites quota
policy.

Sec V—Emergency Medical and
Ambulance Service, AG 451 GPA,
Outlines proper procedure to be
followed.

Sec VI—Roster of Key Officers,
AG 330.3 AGX. Corrects date in
Sec IX, Weekly Directive No. 3,
29 August 1947.

Sec. VII— Reenlistment in the Reg-
ular Army, AG 340 AGP-B.

Sec VIII— Army Photography Con-
test for Military Personnel, AG 353.8
SSP. Amends EUCOM letter of
21 July 1947.

Sec IX—Graphic Training Aids,
AG 353 AGL, States limited stock is
available upon requisition.

Sec X—Misappropriation or Loss
of Entertainment Motion Picture Pro-
grams, AG 353.8 SSP. Instructions for
personnel concerned with the distri-

bution and exhibition of all film
prints.

Sec XI — Individual Recreational
Travel to and within Italy, AG 200.4
GPA. Cites the current provisions
pending revision of Circular 9, Hq
EUCOM.

Sec XII—Mailing of Duty Free
Gifts to the United States by Mem-
bers of US Armed Forces, AG 311.16
GPA, Cites pertinent information.

Advance Copy of Change 7 to
Title 7, Public Welfare, AG 010.6 (IA),
OMGUS, 10Septembere 1947. Concerns
parcels for German prisoners of war.

Signal SOP No. 14, Signal Commu-
nications, Hq EUCOM, 10 September
1947, Supersedes Signal SOP No. 14
of 17 October 1945.

Signal SOP No.1. Signal Commu-
nications, Hq EUCOM, 10 September
1947. Supersedes Signal SOP No.1 of
10 August 1947,

Military Government Regulations,
AG 010.6 (CO), OMGUS, 13 Sep-
tember 1947. Gives ilst of titles and
changes MGR’s in effect.

Corrigendum 1— Change 2 to Title
15, Manpower Administration, AG
014.12, OMGUS, 13 September 1947.
Corrects typographical errors.

Corrigendum 2 —-— Change 1 to
Title 5, Legal and Penal Administra-
tion, AG 014.12, OMGUS, 16 Septem-
ber 1947. Corrects typographical
error.

Military Government Ordinance
No. 18, Being Amendment No. 1 to

Military Government Ordinance
No. 6, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS,
16 September 1947,

Weekly Directive No. 5, Hq

EUCOM, 12 September 1947, Con-

tains following sections:

SecI— Personnel Receiving Addi-
tional Pay (Other than AAF), AG 241

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

AGP-B, Requests that Control Symbol
WDGPA-98 Reports for period
ending 30 September be submitted to
Hq EUCOM not later than 7 October
1947,

Sec II— Enlistments and Reenlist-
ments in the Regular Army, AG 340
AGP-B, Cites substitutions for para-
graphs 13a (1) (b) and 13a (2) WD
Circular 31 OF 1947,

Sec III — Evacuation and Rebuild of
Sedans, Convertibles, and Roadsters,
AG 451 ORD. Substitutes paragraph
in EUCOM letter of 19 March 1947.

SecIV—Assistance to British
Licensed German News Represent-
atives, AG 000.76 PID.

SecV—Change of Address, AG
311.18 AGX. States the Atlantic Divi-
sion Air Transport Command has
changed its location to 35, Rhein-
strasse, APO 633, US Army, Wies-
baden, Germany. The new telephone
numbers are as follows: Colonel Jack
Roberts, 7938, and Major Byron W.
Skillin, 7914, 7881.

Sec VI— Change of Time, AG 003.
GOT. Conforms to ACA instruction
for end of summer time in Germany.

Sec VII— Preparalion of Official
Communications for Transmission by
Signal Messenger Service, AG 312
AGO. Amends Hq EUCOM letter,
AG 312 AGO of 3 July 1947,

Sec VIII — Repatriation Handbook

for War Department Civilian
Employees, AG 230.366 GPA.
Sec IX — Motor Transportation

Furnished IRO, AG 451 GSP. Cites
procedure,

Sec X — Safety Bulletin, AG 729.3
PMG. Cites instructions and infor-
mation,

Personnel Survey of the Army
Reports Control Symbol WDGPA-35,
AG 320.2 AGU, Hq EUCOM, 12 Sep-
tember 1947. Cites current instruc-
tions,

Change No. 4 Part 8, OMGUS,
Title 21, Information Control, 17 Sep-
tember 1947. Concerns reorientation
activities and information centers
and exhibitions.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF