--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 114 / 13 OCTOBER 1947

Ta

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
OPF MARBURG
OBER ~
LAHNKREIS

ime FRIEOBERG
rom Jwoateldoaaear

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU|
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD’

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAD

HEILBRONN

mo

ee
BOBLINGEN Frases

OFSHEIM

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATORS—Rep.

John Taber of New York, who is chairman

of the House Appropriations Committee, and

other Congressmen are shown at the dis-

placed persons camp in Berlin. In the picture

are (left to right, foreground) Rep. Taber,

Harry Messec, executive officer of the PW&

DP Divisions, OMGUS; Rep. Clarence Can-

non of Missouri; Harold Fishbein, director I

of the camp, and Rep. Richard Wigglesworth H

of Massachusetts. (OMGUS PIO)

OUR CONTRIBUTORS
Material for Bavaria Crime Laboratory was
prepared by the Public Safety Branch, Office
of Military Government for Bavaria. Lionel TABLE OF CONTEN TS
S. Partegas is chief of the Crime Laboratory
Section of that office. He came to Germany Issue No. 114, 13 October 1947
in 1945 and for one year taught fingerprint
identification at the European Theater In-

telligence School, CIC Division. From 1940 Bavaria Crime Laboratory 3
2 De Sein casstcaes Maximization of Agriculture, Part 3 6
expert for the Identification Section, US
Navy Department at Washington. He was Bavarian Coal Production Soars 7
assigned to his present job in July 1946. Priority on Travel Requests . 8
Pictures illustrating Bavaria Crime Laboratory
were supplied by the Public Safety Branch, Newspapers Assured of Keeping Plants 9
OMGB. 3 - German Girl Wins Scholarship . ...... . 10
The article on Newspapers Assured of -
Congressman Explai i : ;
Keeping Property was written in the In- 2 pee ecco sat a 0
formation Control Division, OMGUS. : Food Substitution Forbidden .°... 04... 20404012
Maximization of Agriculture, Part 3 of German enc Gash. 6/665 eG city 8 ee ee
which appears in this issue, was prepared Revi 4 Ub,
by the Besa and Agueainue Bronce Bee eview of US. Occupational Activity ...... 15
nomics Division, OMGUS. MOT MerasraneEraCtONS a4 Gai be! ss |e San ee

NEXT WEEK

Articles scheduled for issue No. 115 deal
with civil aviation in Germany, Part 4 of
Maximization of Agriculture, the Friends in
Germany, and zone conferences for liaison OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
and security officers. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
AVARIA HOLDS an enviable po-

sition among the criminal in-
vestigating agencies of Germany in
that it came out of the war with its
complete fingerprint register and crim-
inal case history file dating back
to the early days of the century.

Berlin's Central Police Identification
Bureau was completely wrecked, and
all that could be salvaged from the
rubble were approximately 2,000 old
records. The Land Central Offices of
Criminal Identification in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and in Hesse have re-
tained only a few hundred records.
The once-famed Dresden collection
was completely destroyed and burned.

But fortunately the Bavarian Cen-
tral Office of Criminal Identification
has intact the file of more than
700,000 records of criminal finger-
prints, mame cards, case histories,
modi operandi, rogues gallery photo-
graphs, nicknames, and stolen prop-
erties. Not a single record from the
Bavarian State Central Kripo and
Police Identification Records Bureau
was destroyed or burned.

Included in this file were the fin-
gerprints and case histories of all
known professional criminals arrested
and fingerprinted in Prussia, Saxony,
Wuerttemberg, and other Laender,
together with fingerprints and crim-
inal case histories acquired through
exchange of information over the
years with the United States, France,
England, Switzerland, the Nether-
lands, Denmark, Norway, Sweden,
Italy, Russia, Belgium, Poland, Egypt,
Australia, Africa, and other countries
in the systematic registration of
known international criminals.

(Top left) Fingerprint expert classifying
prints at the Crime Laboratory Section,
Public Safety Branch, OMGB. (Top right)
Fingerprint assembly, assorting and receiv-
ing department. (Center) A section of the
crime laboratory showing the bureau's
specialists at work. (Bottom left) Lionel
S. Partegas, chief of the Crime Laboratory
Section, checking microscopic findings of
the bureau's specialists. (Bottom right) The
bureau's apparatus used in examining and
identifying evidence. Photo at right: Actual
case history picture of a bureau expert's
identification of a latent left-thumb finger-
print.

13 OCTOBER 1947

Thus the record of a bank robber
and safe breaker operating in London
in 1930, arrested in later years in
Chicago for a similar crime and reg-
istered with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in Washington, D.C.,
will be found in the files of the Ba-
varian Central Office of Criminal
Identification. In the same way a
grey haired pickpocket now entering
Germany under an assumed name
could be confronted with his finger-

3

prints, which might have been taken,
for example, by the Budapest Police
and sent to Munich when he was
still a young novice in his art.

The Bavarian Central Office of Crim-
inal Identification operates as a ser-
vice agency, independent of any
police organization, but cooperates
fully in providing information to Ba-
varian police departments. It also
exchanges data with the central off-
ices of criminal identification in the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
The bureau, headed by Dr. Robert
Heindl, operates directly under the
Ministry of Interior of Bavaria. MG
supervision of its activities is pro-
vided by the Crime Laboratory Sec-
tion, Public Safety Branch, OMG Ba-
varia. Dr. Heindl, a noted German
criminologist, had been living in re-
tirement in southern Bavaria when he
was requested to become president
of the bureau. The personnel under
him totals approximately 150 experts,
specialists, technicians, and clerical
workers,

In addition to the fingerprint and
case history file, an extensive reg-
ister of personal descriptions and
photographs of local German, dis-

placed person, refugee national and

other Laender of occupied Germany,
and in other European countries,
international criminals is at the dis-
posal of the Bavarian police depart-
ments in their criminal investigative
work. The register soon is to be
supplemented by copies of an ex-
tensive criminal record, photographic,
and internationally known criminal
reference register used by the Cen-
tral Police Identification Bureau at
Berne, Switzerland. Arrangements
were made with the director of the
Central Police Bureau there to have
the copies sent to Bavaria.

NOTHER IMPORTANT feature of

the bureau is its centralized col-
lection of latent fingerprints found at
scenes of crime throughout the Land.

The Crime Laboratory, in October,
November, and December of 1946
identified 922 such prints received
from Bavarian police agencies. Sub-
sequent expert and specialist testi-
mony in court by the bureau’s finger-
print experts resulted in verdicts of
guilty in all 922 cases,

Equipped to handle all types of
criminal evidence, the bureau’s daily
work in fingerprint identification,
ballistic identification of weapons and
ammunition, moulage, tool marks,
tire marks, questioned handwriting
and typewriting, chemical analysis of
blood stains, ink, poisoned foods, and
other traces, is useful to all law en-
forcement and criminal investigation
units in Bavaria.

Further expansion of the various
departmental sections of the bureau
has been planned. Dr. Heindl is com-
pleting a chemistry and _ physics
laboratory for assisting in preparing
evidence for the courts. Laboratories
for mineralogical and botanical ex-
aminations will follow..In these lab-
oratories, and in classrooms allotted
the bureau at Munich University,
theoretical lectures on criminology,
scientific crime detection, police
statistical reporting, fingerprint identi-
fication, palmprint identification and
chemical analysis of evidence, will be
taught to employees for the bureau.

URING THE FIRST half of 1946,

the following sections were
established in the central office:
(a) central fingerprint collection,

(b) crime laboratory, (c) photographic
laboratory, (d) crime reporting, statisti-
cal and historical, (e) missing person
and unidentified dead, (f) editorial
office of the Bavarian Police Bulletin,
(g) Gipsy identification and records,
(h) communications, (i) administration.
The second half of 1946 was devoted
to systematic reorganization of the
various sections.

In the Central Fingerprint Identi-
fication Section, the fingerprint cards
were classified or reclassified, accord-
ing to the Henry-System, with a total
now estimated at more than 1,000,000
entries.

From 1 July 1945 to 30 June 1946,
7,143 fingerprint records were received
by the identification office from many

--- Page 8 ---
countries of Europe, while from 1 July
1946 to 30 June 1947, the office re-
ceived 52,748 fingerprint records or an
approximate increase of more than
600 percent.

With the help of MG authorities
and through the cooperation of the
Bavarian Ministry of Interior, the
Crime Laboratory was established and
put into operation. As an illustration
of its value, the activities of the tech-
nical laboratory between 1 July 1946
and 30 June 1947 included:

General: 3,254 latent fingerprint
traces were examined, 2,128 latent
fingerprint traces were photographed,
2,881 comparisons of master finger-
print records with latent fingerprint
traces were made.

Ballistics: 65 examinations of fire-
arms and ammunition were made,
10 reports, and 30 opinions in regard
to examinations of firearms were
given.

Examinations of Handwritings: 241
opinions were rendered on the labor-
atory and microscopic analysis of
handwriting.

Examinations of Instruments: 25 ex-
pert examinations and comparisons of
tool traces were made.

Opinions given by the Central
Office in: 11 examinations of blood,
11 examinations of hair, 12 examina-
tions of foodstuff, 20 other exami-
nations and chemical analysis.

The photographic laboratory, with
four specialist photographers, has
some of the finest photographic, en-
larging, and developing equipment in
Germany for the photography and
handling of criminal and documentary
evidence.

A recent activity of this section is
shown in its report for last July:
769 photographs were taken, 189 re-
productions of documentary evidence
were made, and 11,373 enlarged photo-
graphic prints of such photographs
and copy reproductions were made
and processed.

The Criminal Information and Case
History Section between 1 July 1946

MAIN BUILDING of the Central Office of
Criminal Identification, Police Statistics
and Communications for Land Bavaria, at
Munich, is shown (left). (Right) Dr. Robert
Heindl, president of the Central Office.

13 OCTOBER 1947

and 30 June 1947 processed 13,320
case histories on crimes, offenses and
serious incidents and 1,728 other re-
ports and teletype requests.

IN ADDITION to a large collection

of criminal case histories, this section
maintains the modus operandi file, or
special register, on individual work-
ing methods of all professional crimi-
nals known to the police, the central
stolen vehicle and property file, the
nickname and alias file, and many
other criminal record registers which
play an important part in the daily
work of the bureau.

Crime statistical reporting in Ger-
many prior to occupation was not
deemed a matter of importance by
German police authorities. Because
of this feeling little effort was ex-
tended in compiling uniform crime

5

a

statistics. Needing this statistical in-
formation in evaluating and formulat-
ing opinions on crime trends, MG
authorities directed the establishment
of a Crime Reporting, Statistical and
Historical Section in the Bureau,

In accordance with MG directive,
this section compiles statistics from
information received from police
agencies for submission to Public
Safety Branch, OMGB, and prepares
periodical reports concerning offenses
against German laws, offenses against
MG laws, police personnel, police
equipment, and cases of death and
injury.

Large colored maps of Bavaria are
designed each month to give a picture
of the development of crime in the
Land. These show at a glance the

(Continued on Page 12)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
HE ANNUAL crop-production plan
for the bizonal area seeks to
maximize food production by increas-
ing the total planted area and by
emphasizing the increase of direct
food crops and the reduction of feed

and fodder crops, meadows and
pastures. The plan is drawn up by
the production specialists of the
various Laender in consultation with
the farmers’ associations and the
Land minister of agriculture, and after
agreement among the German author-
ities it is subjected to close scrutiny
and criticism by US and UK officials
before final approval.

The occupation authorities have
insisted upon the highest planting
goals believed possible of attainment.
A considerable use of premiums in
kind has been attempted in encourag-
ing the growing of sugar beets, oil
crops, and fiber plants. Thus 4.4 pounds
of oil are granted as a bonus for
every 220 pounds of rape seed pro-
duced, 26.4 pounds of sugar for every
11 short tons of sugar beets, and
25 percent of the flax value in linen

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

articles for small scale deliveries of
flax straw.

In some Laender there are special
fertilizer allowances for high planting
quotas. It is planned in the future to
reserve 25 percent of the total
available fertilizer for use as an in-
centive. Because of varying farming
conditions—climatic and natural fer-
tility variations—it is not believed
practical to make a larger distri-
bution of fertilizer as a premium to
the better performers; seeds are also
allocated to farmers on the basis of
their undertakings to plant.

[HE APPROVED over-all production

program is transmitted to the
various Laender which allocate the
quotas among the separate Kreise.
The latter in turn, subdivide the
assigned acreages within the commu-
nities where in most cases community
farmers’ committees, composed of the
best qualified farmers working on an
honorary basis, assess the production
quotas among the individual farmers.
This assignment of acreage takes full
account of the historical records of
production from the separate farms

6

and makes every effort to assign in-
creased planting quotas to the areas
capable of such increase. Farmers are
frequently asked so subscribe their part
of the called-for increase and de-
creases—after which the unsubscribed
remainder is assigned by the com-
mittee. Often the total assigned ex-
ceeds the quota of the local area—to
allow for some individual failures to
accomplish quotas.

After the allocations have been
made they are reported to the Kreis
offices which then formally notify the
individual farmers of their production
quotas. In most of the Laender today,
at the suggestion of Military Govern-
ment, a written acknowledgment is
required from each farmer as to his
assessed cultivation area.

An actual enforcement of the plant-
ing quotas, however, still presents
great difficulties. The basic occu-
pation policy calls for a federalized
rather than a highly centralized Ger-
man government, and this necessarily
limits the executive powers of the
central German agencies. Implemen-
tation of the cropping plan is, there-

13 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
fore, dependent on the voluntary
cooperation of the Laender and on the
pressures which the latter can bring
on individual farmers. The supplies
available for incentives are still ex-
tremely inadequate, since, except for
fertilizer and seed, producers and
consumers goods are completely in-
sufficient for minimum needs.
Furthermore, close check-up on
what has actually been planted is
virtually impossible, because of the
extraordinary extent to which German
farms tend to be broken up into small
parcels — especially in the south.
There are about 1,500,000 agricultural
enterprises in the bizonal area with
an average size of less than 20 acres.

HE BEST encouragement for carry-

ing out the assigned cultivation
plans would be the establishment of
sound relationships between farm
prices and the producer and con-
sumer goods which a farmer needs to
buy. The use of ordinary economic
incentives to encourage production
activity is fundamental to the Ameri-
can conception of democracy but is
impossible under present German con-
ditions. That assigned production
goals have been achieved as far as
they have been may be considered a
tribute to the cooperativeness of the
German farmer and his fundamental
willingness to produce as much food
as possible.

It should be clear that the neces-
sary increase of total German food
production will be extremely difficult
to realize within the next four or
five years. It may confidently be
asserted that such an increase will
not be realized so long as the pre-
sent low level of feeding in Germany
and general economic stagnation
continue,

Indigenous production available to
the non-self supplier last year was
less than 1,000 calories per capita per
day (less than 800 for “normal con-
sumer”). Under the favorable assump-
tions associated with the preliminary
Marshall Plan it should be possible
to raise this level a total of 300 to
400 calories over the next three or
four years.

GRAIN FIELDS are reaped and the
crop is in, but this family—like others
throughout rural Germany—adds to
its rations by gleaning. (DENA-Bild)

Bavarian Coal Production Soars

AVARIAN coal production is now

substantially exceeding the pre-
war output due to the exploitation of
new mines and an incentive program
for miners, the Coal and Mining
Section, Industry Branch, OMG Ba-
varia, announced.

Production for the first eight months
of 1947 has averaged 248,893 tons
monthly, as compared to 241,747 tons
monthly in 1938, the peak year of
prewar production. An enlarged labor
force, totaling about 11,800 workers,
as compared to 6,900 in 1938, has
been employed in the mines.

In addition to the 4,000 calories of
food daily for heavy workers in the
mines, the incentive program pro-
vides special rations of schnaps and
tobacco for miners with good atten-

dance records. The extra rations
range up to 34 liter of schnaps and
100 grams of tobacco depending upon
the type of work performed and the
attendance record of the miner. For
each pit a weekly production esti-
mate is published in advance. If the
pit attains this goal, each member of
the immediate family of the miners
in that pit is issued extra rations
of 400 calories per day.

While Bavarian mines produce a
low quality brown and pech coal,
and only small amounts of soft coal,
every ton produced reduces the

amount of coal required from the
Ruhr and relieves correspondingly the
burden on the transportation system,
MG coal and mining officials said.

--- Page 11 ---
The following statement was
issued by General Lucius D. Clay,
US Military Governor of Germany:

JHE PRESIDENT of the United

States has called on the people
of the United States to conserve
food and has appointed a Food
Committee to develop a conserva-
tion program, so that more food
may be made available from Amer-
ica to millions of underfed people
elsewhere.

Here in Germany, we see daily
the effects of an inadequate food
supply and realize fully the ex-
treme need which makes it essen-
tial that no food be wasted any-
where.

From the beginning of the occupa-
tion we have had food conserv-
ation measures in effect. How-
ever, conditions are even more se-

Food Saving in EUCOM Urged

tious now than when these meas-
ures were first installed. We
must make a wholehearted effort
to see that all food conservation
measures are carried out and that
no food is wasted.

In this way, we can demonstrate,
as in no other, our devotion to
the accomplishment of our ob-
jectives in Germany and at the
same time earn the satisfaction
which comes only as we play our
part in making a better world in
which true democracy can survive
and grow.

Therefore, I ask every American
man, woman and child in Ger-
many to do their part in eating
less and avoiding all waste of food
so that we may join with those
at home in meeting our President's
request.

Priority on Travel Requests

IE COMBINED Travel Board will

give priority to requests for Mil-
itary Exit Permits for German business-
men whose foreign travel is desired
by the Joint Export-Import Agency
or any of its branch offices, according
to OMGUS directive AG 014.331, “Pro-
cedure for Procuring Military Exit Per-
mits for German Businessmen,” dated
9 September 1947.

The requests should be made at the
same time steps are taken to procure
the required visa from the country or
countries to be visited. Time will be
saved if both procedures are accom-
plished at the same time.

Sponsorship by the Joint Export-
Import Agency branch office is suffi-
cient and reference for sponsorship
‘need not be made to the head office,
but the application should be for-
warded through channels to the Land
office of the Combined Travel Board.
In the case of the JEIA branch in
Berlin the application should be for-
warded through channels to the Com-
bined Travel Board in Berlin.

Each such application should be
plainly marked: “This application is

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

made in connection with neccessary
export-import business and is spon-
sored by the (blank) office of JEIA.
It is requested that clearance be
granted on a priority basis.”

HERE PRACTICABLE, such ap-

plications should be hand-
carried through proper channels to
the Land office of the Combined
Travel Board which should obtain any
further clearances by telephone, and
should normally be able to give ap-
proval or disapproval within a few
days.

After the first Temporary Document
and Military Exit Permit have been
issued to a particular applicant, the
only formality necessary for a sub-
sequent exit by the applicant is a
letter of sponsorship from the JEIA
branch office (or head office) and sub-
mission of the Travel Document al-
teady issued. These subsequent appli-
cations do not go through channels
but may be submitted directly to the
designated Land Office of the Com-
bined Travel Board and should norm-

(Continued on Page 14)

8

Payments Arranged

For Ex-War Prisoners

IORMER GERMAN pprisoners of
war, released by the French author-
ities and residing in the British or
American Zone, can obtain settlement
of payment certificates issued to them
by French authorities upon release,
according to Finance Division, OMGUS.
The former prisoner of war must
report personally to the nearest
branch of the Land Central Bank or
Reichsbank and present the following
documents: (1) discharge certificate;
(2) payment certificate (clearly en-
dorsed on the back with the address
to which the claimant wishes payment
to be made); and (3) civilian identity
card. Failure to appear personally or
to produce all of these documents will
result in a refusal to accept the claim.
The discharge certificate will be
clearly stamped to the effect that the
payment certificate has been retained.
The bank will forward the payment
certificate to the French authorities
who, after checking, will remit, by
postal money order, the sum due to
the claimant at the desired address.

If the former prisoner has died since
release, his family may obtain settle-
ment of the payment certificate by
submitting the following documents
directly to: The Paymaster-General,
French Occupation Zone, Prisoner of
War Branch, Baden-Baden (17b):

(1) Discharge certificate of deceased
prisoner; (2) payment certificate of
deceased prisoner (clearly endorsed
on the back with the name and
address of the claimant acting on be-
half of the estate); (3) a certificate
drawn up by the Amtsgericht testi-
fying that the claimant is acting
legally on behalf of the estate and is
entitled to receive the funds due to
the prisoner. After verification, pay-
ment will be made by postal money
order directly to the address given on
the back of the payment certificate.

Book Export Contract Signed

The story of scientific development
in Germany from 1939 to 1946 will
be published under terms of an export
contract concluded between the Cam-
bridge (Mass.), Book Publishing Co.,
Schoenhof's Publishers Inc., and the
Hessian Printing Firm, Dietrich’sche
Publisher of Wiesbaden,

13 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
NEWSPAPERS ASSURED
OF KEEPING PLANTS

RROTECTION of the _ property

tenure of the 48 licensed German-
language newspapers in the US occu-
pied area for a minimum of five years
and, in certain cases, for a maximum
of eight years, has been assured by
the US Military Government, through
the Information Control Division, in
its determination to lay a solid found-
ation for an intependent and demo-
cratic press in Germany.

This protection involves mandatory
property leases in cases where the
US-licensed publishers have been
unable to negotiate voluntary agree-
ments with owners of printing plants.
If, at the termination of the five-year
mandatory lease, the publisher has
been unsuccessful in his attempts to
find other printing facilities, after a
thorough search, then Military Govern-
ment will effect another mandatory
lease for a period of three years.
Thus, a newspaper publisher, under
certain circumstances, is protected
against possible eviction for eight
years,

Col. Gordon E. Textor, director of
the Information Control Division,
OMGUS, said this property safeguard
was instituted because of the un-
willingness of newspaper plant owners
to sell or lease their properties,
despite the fact that they could not
qualify as newspaper publishers.

“Attempts to effect voluntary leases
have been succesful in only a few
cases,” Colonel Textor said. “Most of
the printing plants are owned by
former Nazis, many of whom have
been cleared by denazification courts
and still retain their properties, only,
of course, if their penalties did not
include property confiscation. But
apparently these people never did
and never will accept the idea of a
free or democratic press. And so to
protect our licensed publishers, who
by their own background and their
efforts as editors since 8 May 1945
have been demonstrating their belief
in democratic principles, Military

13 OCTOBER 1947

Government has decided upon man-
datory leases.”

NEW REGULATION provides
that a voluntary lease between
an owner and a newspaper licensee
of the Information Control Division is
to be preferred over a mandatory
lease made between a property con-
trol custodian and a newspaper licen-
see. A mandatory lease will not be
transacted until it is clear that a
voluntary lease is unobtainable. How-
ever, if no voluntary lease has been
concluded by 30 days after the licen-
see's first offer to negotiate a lease,
then the presumption arises that the
owner has no real intention of con-
cluding a voluntary lease and a
mandatory (involuntary) lease will be
concluded forthwith by Military
Government.

The terms and conditions of volun-
tary leases will be determined by the
agreement of the parties to the lease
except that the minimum term of the
lease shall be the same as is provided
for in the case of mandatory leases.
Where an owner having voluntarily
entered into a lease agreement vio-
lates the lease in such substantial
manner as to constitute a breach of

the contract of lease and as to.

justify its rescission, property control
custody may be reasserted over the
property and a mandatory lease

thereupon made through a property
contro] custodian.

The regulation stipulates ‘that a
mandatory lease made through 4
property control custodian shall re-
quire the payment of a fair rental
by the newspaper licensee. The rental
rate shall be subject to review and
revision in the light of changing
economy and financial conditions at
the close of each 12-month period,
starting with the effective date of the
lease and in case of a major change,
such as the introduction of a new
currency, as soon as practicable after
such major change takes place. The
rental rate shall be fixed in conform-
ity with applicable local ordinances
or regulations of the community in
which the property in question is
located by mutual agreement between
the parties concerned or, if they are
unable to agree, by such non-judicial
body or agency, consisting of persons
experienced and skilled in business
and commerce, which normally per-
forms arbitration services in business
and commercial disputes, or by such
other methods as may be designated.
by Military Government.

CITIES WHERE only one news-
paper printing plant is available
and more than one newspaper licensee
is established, all newspaper licensees
shall have equal printing privileges
or equal opportunities of management
and control of the property. This shall

Bavaria to Fill All Hop Contracts

All export contracts from the 1947
Bavarian hop crop, amounting to
2,700 tons and worth $5,500,000, will
be filled as a result of a rapid labor
recruiting program which saved the
crop from major losses through
drought, the Export-Import Promotion
Section, OMG Bavaria said.

A labor force, recruited primarily
from refugees through cooperative
action by the MG Manpower and

°

Economic Divisions and the Bavarian
Labor Ministry, was rushed to the
fields to pick the hops when they
ripened prematurely as a result of dry
weather in September.

Major buyers of the 1947 crop,
amounting to 3,700 tons, of which
2,700 tons went for export, were the
United States, Denmark, Belgium,
France, the Netherlands, Switzerland,
and England.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
be accomplished by one of the follow-
ing methods:

1. The property shall be directly
managed and operated by the pro-
perty control custodian who will print
the newspapers of the licensees upon
a job contract basis. The custodian
will grant equal treatment to all
newspaper licensees and will fully
perform his contract with such licen-
sees before doing printing work for
others,

2. The property shall be managed
and operated by an independent
printer who will lease the property
from the property control custodian
upon the same conditions as_ is
provided for in the case of other
mandatory leases. The independent
printer shall print the papers of the
newspaper licensees upon a job con-
tract basis. The terms of the printer's
lease will be such that he will be
required to grant equal treatment to
all newspaper licensees and to fully
perform his contracts with such
licensees before undertaking printing
work for others.

3. The newspaper licensees will join
together in the formation of a printing
company or partnership in which
they will all have equal capital partici-
pation, The printing company will
lease the property from the property
control custodian upon the same
terms as provided for in the case of
other mandatory leases.

JHE PROPERTY in question may in

some instances consist primarily
of printing equipment suitable for
general contract printing and only
secondarily, and in minor part, consist
of equipment suitable for the printing
of a newspaper. Where that part of
the equipment for newspaper printing
is thus relatively small compared to
that part of the equipment devoted
to general printing, the owner may be
allowed to remain in possession of the
property and given opportunity to
contract with the licensees for the
printing of the newspaper on a job
contract basis. Such a contract will
be subject to the same conditions as
apply herein to voluntary leases.

All mandatory leases shall contain
a stipulation to the effect that the
lease may be cancelled by the author-
ity of Military Government at any
time without prior notice.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Girl Wins Scholarship

(Photo by PIO, OMGWB)

MISS GOERDELER receives from John P. Steiner, director of the Education and
Religious Affairs Division, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, her papers for her plane
tlight to New York, her entry into the United States, and her study on a
scholarship at the Briarcliff Junior College for Women.

AZI OPPRESSION faded more

into unpleasant memories as
Benigna Goerdeler, 18-year-old student
residing in Stuttgart since the war,
headed toward the United States. to
continue her education toward be-
coming a doctor of medicine.

Miss Goerdeler was selected for a
scholarship by Briarcliff Junior College
for Women in New York City from
a list of five candidates submitted by
the Wuerttemburg-Baden Ministry of
Culture, in cooperation with the
OMGWB Education and Religious
Affairs Division.

She will study biology, chemistry,
physics, and liberal arts courses at
Briarcliff for two years, with all ex-
penses, including passage to and from
America, paid by the college. She

10

left Stuttgart two weeks ago for
New York.

Miss Goerdeler is the youngest of
four children of the late chief mayor
of Leipzig, Karl Goerdeler, who was
executed by the Nazis for a leading
role in the unsuccessful bomb plot of
20 July 1944 against Hitler. She spent
nine months in a Nazi concentration
camp in the Dolomite Mountains until
her liberation by US Army troops.

Two Branches Abolished

The Program Control Branch and
the Organization Branch of the Con-
trol Office, OMGUS, have been
abolished and their functions del-
egated to the newly-created Organ-
ization and Program Branch,

13 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
CONGRESSMAN EXPLAINS AID PROCEDURE

Representative Dirksen Orients Germans in Basis of U.S. Government
Fact-Finding Survey of Conditions in Europe

And in Reasons for

HE GERMAN people of the US-

Occupied Area were oriented in
the governmental foundations of the
United States and in the reasons for
the fact-finding survey of European
conditions by several members of the
US Congress in a radio address on
1 October in Stuttgart by Rep. Everett
M. Dirksen, chairman of a joint House
Armed Forces-Appropriations Com-
mittee. The address, made in German
by Representative Dirksen, Republican
from Illinois, was broadcast over the
radio stations Stuttgart, Frankfurt,
Bremen, and RIAS Berlin.

After explaining the fundamental
principles of the three distinct branch-
es of government, the broad sense
of “law” in the United States, and
the method of providing funds for
governmental expenditures, Represent-
ative Dirksen declared:

“I am accentuating these things,
because the men who more than 150
years ago formulated the Constitution
of the United States were endeavor-
ing to insure the welfare of the
people and to protect them by putting
the authority to levy taxes and to
spend money into the hands of the
representatives of the people, and by
making it possible through periodic
elections to remove these represent-
atives from their offices if they mis-
used this authority. This has always
been one of the greatest and most
cherished safety factors in the whole
Constitution.”

His address continued in part:

“And now, this fact becomes espe-
cially important in regard to the sub-
ject of the assistance in destroyed
countries or for assistance to countries
which are now wholly or partially
occupied by American troops and

SHOWN AT LUNCH at Truman Hall,
Berlin, are (left to right) Rep. Everett
M. Dirksen (Illinois), Rep. Clarence
Cannon (Missouri), Rep. John Taber
(New York) and Rep. Richard B.
Wigglesworth (Massachusetts). The
Congressmen came to Germany to
study conditions, (PIO OMGUS}

13 OCTOBER 1947

under the complete or partial juris-
diction of American authority.

“Whatever assistance may be in-
tended for Germany, or whatever ex-
penditures may be needed in order to
put the so-called Marshall Plan into
effect, such acts of help and support
must be decided in the House of Rep-
tesentatives and in the Senate, the
two equally authoritative bodies of
Congress. It is their responsibility. In
the last analysis they have to decide
what American policy is to be, inas-
much as this policy is to be carried
out in using public money, or goods
and equipment, which would have to
be bought with public money.

JHE MEMBERS of the American

Congress have a real and per-
manent interest in world affairs, in
rehabilitation of destroyed countries,
so that freedom, independence, and a
democratic concept of life, for which
two world wars have been fought,
can be made a reality. We have never
asked anything of any country, except
that its people be free and that they
may live their lives without the con-
stant shadow of fear. We have always
enjoyed complete freedom in our
country. And we want to be sure that
the people in other countries enjoy
the same rights. That was the basic
aim of our battle which ended more
than two years ago, and which carried
such tremendous destruction into so
many territories of the world.

“There is still much fever and un-
rest in the world today. There is
hunger in many territories. There is a
great need for help, so that destroyed
countries may be reconstructed, and
so that they may again attain eco-
nomic independence for their peoples.
Realizing what great appeals would
be made to the American Congress
and to the American people, we mem-
bers of the Congress believe that we
will be able to understand these needs
better, and that we can better judge
the problems which the world is
facing, by coming to Germany and to
other countries in order to get a first-
hand picture of what is necessary to
reconstruct industry, agriculture and
the general economy of these coun-
tries, and especially of Germany.

“T came as chairman of a general
committee, consisting of members of
Congress belonging to the Armed
Forces Committee and the Appropri-
ations Committee in the House of Rep-
resentatives. My regular work in
Congress concerns the committee
which deals with the use of public
funds, and in this capacity I wanted
to gain a clear and final impression of
the German problems ...

“I can assure the German people of
our sincere wish to be of help in the
solution of the problems they are
facing, and I believe that I can say
that the American people share this
feeling. It has been a stimulating visit

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
which will bear real fruit in the mak-
ing of the decisions which must be
made in the days which lie before us.
Permit me to express my best wishes
for your welfare.”

(Continued from Page 5)
Bavaria Crime Laboratory

monthly changes in crime incidence
in every city and Kreis in Bavaria.
Prepared by the statistical section, the
maps are furnished all interested MG,
Allied and German authorities. Crime
Statistics, information, and reports in
tabular form are prepared by this
section for forwarding to interested
American authorities in accordance
with existing MG regulations.

UCH REPORTS have aided ma-
terially in surveying and contol-
ling the incidence of crime and its
economic background, and have prov-
ed valuable in fields of practical
police work and criminal investigation,
especially in tracing individuals and
gangs committing crimes in one lo-
cality of Bavaria and then traveling
to other localities to commit similar
crimes. .

Identification of dead and missing
persons is a major problem of law
enforcement agencies. The Missing
Persons and Unidentified Dead Section
of the bureau during the 1946-47 year
received 814 reports on missing per-
sons and 119 reports on unidentified
dead. Of this number 331 cases of
missing persons and 68 cases of un-
identified dead were cleared.

The activities of the Gipsy Identifi-
cation and Record Section embraced
the task of checking persons classified
by police agencies as gipsy wanderers
who make application or claims for
maintenance and reparations at the
Bavarian welfare office. This section
seeks to determine and evaluate the
extent of claimed persecution for
racial or criminal reasons by these
individuals.

The Teletype and Communication
Section of the Central Office of Crim-
inal Identification in Munich is con-
nected with the main cities of the US
and British Zones. This section is
directly responsible for supervising
the maintenance of this teletype net
and is helping to expand the police
communication network of the US and
British Zones,

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Food Substitution Forbidden

ERMAN FOOD and _ agriculture

authorities have been forbidden
to substitute food supplies imported
for German civilians in the US-UK
Occupied Areas for indigenous foods
that had not been fully collected or
properly distributed on the official
tation.

In a cable, V-23385 of 2 October, to
the Bipartite Control Office with in-
formation copies to each of the Land
MG offices, the Economics Division,
OMGUS, said:

“The present serious food situation
requires that imported foods should
not be used to discourage maximum
indigenous food deliveries, and that
proper controls be established to
guarantee this objective. It is, there-
fore, desired that instructions be
issued that no substitutions of im-
ported food for indigenous food be
made without your approval, and that
all German proposals for the use of
imported food should be scrutinized
with care.”

The cable added that in enforcing
the general policy regarding the use
of imported food, it was desired that
the Bipartite Control Office insure
that the following policies are ob-
served:

1, Imported foods will not be used
to meet shortfalls of an indigenous
item resulting from failures in collec-
tion or distribution.

2. Imported foods will only be distrib-
uted on the officially authorized
ration or on approved feeding pro-
grams.

3. Imported foods will only be pro-
cessed when such processing will not
result in substantial manufacturing
losses.

4, Imported foods will be utilized
strictly for direct human consumption
and not for fodder or industrial pur-
poses. By-products resulting from the
processing of imported foods will be
distributed only under programs ap-
proved by the Bipartite Control Office.

The cable said such further controls
as were deemed necessary by the Bi-
partite Control Office to insure com-
pliance with the general policy should
be initiated and enforced by that
office.

12

At the same time, the OMGUS Food
and. Agriculture Branch announced
that during September 498,3000 short
tons of bread grains and flour and
1,650 short tons of other foodstuffs,
including dried milk, rolled oats, pul-
ses, and miscelldneous items, arrived
from the United States to help feed
the German population in the bizonal
area.

These imports were valued at appro-
ximately $50,000,000 and were paid
for in equal shares of United Kingdom
and United States appropriated funds.
In addition to these food arrivals from
the United States, imports of fish and
British unilateral purchases arrived in
September from various European
countries.

This was the third highest tonnage
imported this year and brought the
total of cereal imports since the be-
ginning of 1947 to nearly 3,300,000
short tons, which is an average of
363,000 tons a month.

Harvest Aid Pledged

British Army and Royal Air Force
transport will be used to help gather
the harvest in the British Zone, thus
relieving the burden of overworked

German transport, CCG(BE) an-
nounced.
Service and CCG officials have

agreed that local burgomasters may
tequest kreis commanders to ask for
assistance from local army units. Such
units will place all available first-line
vehicles at the disposal of the kreis
commander, for use within a radius
of approximately 30 miles.

The army also agreed, during the
harvest period, to relinquish its day-
to-day hirings of licensed German
trucks, except in Hamburg, where
hirings will be substantially reduced.
The released vehicles will be switched
to harvest work.

“War is Organized Murder”

“Educate first ourselves and later,
if possible, other nations to the reali-
zation that war... is organized
murder,” editorialized the Main Post
(Wuerzburg).

13 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 16 ---
PRESS and

Predicts End of UN

The Main Post (Wuerzburg), in
predicting the end of the United
Nations, said:

“At the UN meeting in New York
the opponents have locked horns. In
all probability there will very soon
be an open break. The United States
is going to have a big majority for
the plan of a permanent commission
that will be something like a small
world council" ...

“If the plenary meeting comes to
the point of voting—and the United
States is not going to be satisfied
without a vote—then this smaller
council will ake over and no veto
tight will be provided. With a quali-
fied majority of two-thirds or three-
quarters economic or military sanc-
tions will be resolved. The great
powers or, if need be, the United
States alone could be charged with
its execution.”

“Russia—if it remained a UN mem-
ber—would have to submit to such
majority votes, That it does not want
that is evident... The situation is
clear. The UN as a federation of all
nations will shortly cease to exist.”

Food Complaints Criticized

The Nuernberger Nachrichten called
complaints about food scarcity “‘illogi-
cal and irrational,” saying:

“The world knows our need, but
the world is hardly better off than
we are! . . . England has rationing
and food queues just as we have; the
French get less bread than we; the Ital-
ians are not much better off. This win-
ter the United States may be compelled
to institute rationing again and food
prices are terrific, because the world
—which includes us—must be helped.

“Because of drought in Europe the
demands on the United States will be
increased, but will hardly be fulfilled.
Many short-sighted, perhaps malicious
‘Germans overlook this and criticize
American food help, without which
they wouldn't be here to criticize.

13 OCTOBER 1947

They forget that Germany began and
lost the war; that Nazi policies are
responsible for our misery and the
world’s misery.”

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) commented on the
plan for the US Zone, approved by
Military Government, which pre-
scribed a production inventory for all
industrial and consumer goods in
order that they may be fairly distrib-
uted: |

“Its success is dependent upon
whether our German authorities have
sufficient courage and energy to
remove the existent evils. The chief
disadvantage of the plan is that it
applies only to the American Zone,
whereas the illegal barter with agri-
cultural and industrial products is
distinctly bizonal ... The press
demands that the results shown and
the consequent action taken be cur-
rently publicized.”

Challenge Goes Unheeded

Der Neue Tag (Weiden) asked the
political parties for statements re-
garding the resignation of the SPD
from the government. The paper
offered to give them equal space.

“Day in and day out one hears the
complaint that the above-party press
gives the political parties so little
chance to explain their views to large
groups of readers. Our. democratic
offer was to provide such an occasion
—but it was not welcome. The repre-
sentatives were attacked by an uneasy

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not ne-
cessarily to give any concurrence

to their views and opinions.

13

feeling about stating

them—their very own Opi
rather felt cornered by us. They ans-
wered: They wouldn't want to anti-
cipate party-official opinions; in-
quiries and conferences would first
be necessary. Of democratic courage
there was none...”

Germany — Mirror of World

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) stated that Germany
has become a mirror of the two
halves into which the world has
split. The character of each of the
world is reflected in Germany pri-
marily in political parties.

“The Eastern Zone is so far iden-
tified with the SED (Social Unity
Party) that one calls it SEDistan. For
a long time we have been cautious
enough not to publish anything but
agency reports from the Soviet occu-
pied part of Germany. In the mean-
time, however, many reports have
come from p-ople who have fled
from the Soviet Zone and whose
descriptions reinforce each other:
Mrs. Yetta Schaar who resigned from
the SED directory, the mayor of Jena,
Mertens, the former Minister Presi-
dent’ Paul ... All this has greatly
increased the interest in the Soviet
Zone and the SED. We therefore use
the occasion to publish an opinion
on both and more...”

There followed a letter by a former
Communist, Fritz Loewenthal, as
printed in the Telegraf (British-licens-
ed newspaper in Berlin), Loewenthal
who, for 12 years until December 1946,
was in Russia, told of deportations,
concentration camps, cellars of a
secret political police, and called
Bolshevism “no less a danger for
mankind than Fascism.”

The Sueddeutsche Allgemeine(Pforz-
heim) quoted Die Neue Zeitung (US-
published zonal newspaper) on large
amounts of grain, wood, and cattle
going from the Soviet Zone to Russia:

“The Soviets and SED at every
occassion demand German unity.
Both accuse constantly the western

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Germans as well as the British and
the Americans that inclusion in the
Marshall Plan means a break in Ger-
man unity... But what is the true
situation? The Americans bring us
victuals and save us from starvation,
while the Soviet Zone must deliver
cattle and grain to Russia.”

The paper then tells of a resolution
adopted at a kreis meeting in Son-
dershausen (Soviet Zone) to merge
immediately the Soviet Zone with
Russia.

“So the eastern zone was to become
the 17th Soviet State! ... So one
talks to the west about unity and
addresses reproaches to us, but one
looks to the east, seeks political
attachnent there, even delivers
without objection what the west and
also the eastern zone need to pre-
serve naked life!”

The Offenbach Post wanted the
people to distinguish carefully be-
tween Russia, Communism, and SED:

“We must not be anti-Russian ...
The Russians are an old people with
an old culture and we have no reason
to be against any people on this
earth...

“Today the prejudiced judgment of
Communism that, incidentally, led the
Nazis to a completely false estimate
of Soviet power, is experiencing an
astonishing revival ... We should
not be anti-Communist either ...

“But what are we against? ... We
are against the fact that the SED
speaks exclusively the language of
the Soviet Union... We are
against conditions in the Soviet Zone
that strongly resemble the methods
for which Hitler was outlawed by all
European peoples ...

“We are not anti-Russian, but we
are against all violence and we shall
criticise whatever infringes the prin-
ciples of liberty. The Russians are
a great people... Any conflict must
be fought in such a way that one
may build new bridges once the
system changes.”

Anti-War Bill Praised

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) reported
a bill introduced in the Bavarian
Landtag that consists of two brief
sentences:

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

“No citizen may be compelled to
undertake military service or war
activities, No disadvantage may
accrue to him because of his exercise
of this right.”

The Main Post highly approves:
“On former occasions many readers
have written to this paper demanding
the right to refuse war service. Now
this wish shall become reality! The
SPD (Social Democratic Party) pro-
posed the law and a majority of the
Constitutional Committee agreed...

“For the first time in the history of
German democracy the population of
at least one German province may
have the possibility to protect itself
from the nightmare of German mili-
tarism.”

Canada to Put DP’s
In Clothing Industry

The Canadian government has
agreed to accept 2,114 displaced per-
sons from the British and US Zones
of Germany and Austria for employ-
ment as tailors and seamstresses in
Canada’s clothing industry, under an
agreement reached recently with the
International Refugees’ Organization.

A total of 500 DP’s will be accepted
from the British Zone of Germany,
while the US Zone allocation is 400
Jews and 264 others. The remainder
will be recruited in Austria. Appli-
cants must be between the ages of

18 and 55 years. A married man may
be accompanied by his immediate
family.

First movement of the DP garment
workers from Germany, by IRO char-
tered ship, is expected in November.

(Continued from Page 8)
Travel Request Priority

ally be cleared on the same day, par-
ticularly if hand-carried.

These subsequent applications
should show on their face that a Tem-
porary Travel Document and Military
Exit Permit for the named applicant
have already been issued and should
state that the present application is
for subsequent travel of the same
applicant, is sponsored by (blank)
office of the JEIA, and that the travel
document is being submitted for entry
of the exit stamp.

The Combined Travel Board issues
the Military Exit Permit but is not
concerned with the foreign exchange
required for the travel. This matter
must be acted on by the branch office
of JEIA, either on the basis that the
necessary travel cost is being pro-
vided from outside Germany without
expense to JEIA or that the travel is
of sufficient importance to the export-
import program so that JEIA is pre-
pared to advance the necessary for-
eign exchanges as a business expense.
Advances by JEIA for this purpose
will be made in accordance with in-
structions to be issued shortly.

Prisoners Suffer From Hunger Edema

PPROXIMATELY 50 percent of
320 German prisoners of war who
returned recently to the US Zone from
the Soviet Zone suffered from hunger
edema, the Public Health Branch,
IA&C Division, OMGUS, disclosed.
The results were obtained from a
survey made by a joint US-German
nutrition team late in August at the
Hersfeld Homecomer's Camp in Hesse.
Of 320 men who were examined,
the average weight was about 16
pounds below what is considered the
minimum weight necessary for health
and about 26 pounds below American

14

average weights for men of similar
age.

Returning prisoners in the 20 to
39-year age group averaged 126.5
pounds, or about 18 pounds below the
minimum health standard as compared
to an average of 130.6 pounds for men
of the same age in the US Zone. Those
between the ages of 40 and 39 averag-
ed 129 pounds or 17 pounds below the
minimum standard.

The returnees’ average nutritional
state was much below that of the
average citizen of Land Hesse, the
nutrition survey team reported.

\ 13 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 18 ---
REVIEW OF OCCUPATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Digest of Semi-Monthly Military Government Report No. 76
For the Period Ended 29 September 1947

Electric Power—Shutting off of
power for industry throughout the US
Zone occurred for several hours each
day, thus reducing consumption by
nearly 15 percent. The drop in con-
sumption was slightly greater than
that of hydrogenerated power.

Transportation—The first shipment
of 2,323 tires with tubes for German
highway transportation arrived in
Bremen from the United States, and
was sent to designated distribution
points... After two and half years of
single-track operation on the Regens-
burg-Munich line, completion of re-
pair work on vital bridges has per-
mitted the resumption of double-track
operations... Probstzella in the Soviet
Zone is being used as an additional
railroad exchange point between the
US-UK Zones and the Soviet Zone.

Coal—Altthough employment in the
Ruhr mines incrased to a new high,
averaging 257,032 workers actually
on the job per day, the daily rate of
coal output declined by about one per-
cent. German officials stated that they
were unable to employ more workers
efficiently. Military Government
pointed to the important factor that
the new and inexperienced labor
lowered the average daily output per
worker.

Law and Order—The Wuerttem-
berg-Baden rural police have formu-
lated extensive plans for protection
of the potato harvest, including co-
operation with the urban police in
controlling pedestrian traffic at rail-
road terminals in harvesting areas,
establishment of road blocks, and
detailing additional men to border
control posts.

Housing—About one-third of the
total German personnel of the bizonal
offices eventually to be moved to
Frankfurt have been accommodated
as a result of the reconstruction pro-
ject. The personnel of these offices
are moved into Frankfurt as housing
becomes available.

Industrial Production—The rate of
industrial output remained virtually
unchanged from July to August,

13 OCTOBER 1947

Low Water Level Offset

To aid in offsetting the ex-
ceedingly low water level of the
Weser River, a large part of the
reservoir behind the Eder Dam
has been released, and release
of the water from the Eder See
has been controlled so that no
water passes through the Hameln-

Minden stretch on Saturday
afternoons or Sundays.
The production of hydro-

generated power was forced
downward during the first two
weeks in September to 32 percent
below that of the last two weeks
in August, reaching a new low
for the occupation.

Austrian hydroelectric plants,
which provided power to elec-
trified rail lines in Bavaria, were
forced to close down. Reduced
rail movements throughout Ba-
varia resulted.

Lack of Rhine barge transport
occasioned by the drought li-
mited lumber exports to 547,150
cubic feet in two weeks, while
some 1,412,000 cubic feet awaited
shipment in Rhine port areas.

although the index of industrial pro-
duction declined from 53 percent of
the 1936 average to 51 percent. Most
industries, working on a one or two-
shift basis, worked 26 days in August,
or four percent more than they did in
July which had 27 working days.

MFA&A—A valuable 17th-century
Gobelin tapestry and a portrait of
Madame de Brand, which had been
removed from the Eremitage at Bay-
reuth, Bavaria, reached the Munich
Central Collecting Point... The Main-
fraenkisches Museum of Wuerzburg,
Bavaria, formerly the Fraenkisches
Luitpold-Museum, reopened in the
Marienberg Fortress, Wuerzburg.

Restitution—During the first half of
September, nearly 7.5 short tons of
resin, restitutable although not remov-

15

ed by force, was certified as essential
and released to the German economy,
in accordance with the interpretation
of the restitution agreements reached
in the Allied Control Authority.

Reparations—A total of more than
4,400 short tons of reparations equip-
ment was dispatched to nine countries.
Initial shipments were made to Bel-
gium from the Dornier- Werke at
Aubing, Bavaria, and from the Dampf-
saegewerk at Grafenaschau, Bavaria,
and to the Netherlands from the
Fabrik Allendorf at Allendorf, Hesse.
The USSR received the final shipment
from the Noris Zuendlicht A.G. at
Nuremberg.

Finance—Quadripartite agreement
was reached on exchange of public
finance data for all four zones. The
first exchange was scheduled for
1 October to include information on
revenues, expenditures, cash balances,
and borrowing at the Land level.

Communications—The US Depart-
ment of the Army has approved the
transfer to the German Administrative
Department for Posts and Telecom-
munications of dollar-purchased equip-
ment, including US-constructed open
wire and associated facilities, for-
merly operated and maintained by the
US military forces... Telegraph rates
on all international traffic from the
Combined US-UK Zones of Germany
to the United States and its posses-
sions, with the exception of Expedi-
tionary Forces Messages, were in-
creased approximately 25 percent
effective 10 October.

Press—Military Government sent
three protests to the Soviet Military
Administration for articles and car-
toons which have appeared in the
Soviet official or licensed German
press in violation of ACA Directive
No. 40 “Policy to be Followed by
German Politicians and the German
Press.”

Publications—To increase the prac-
tical value of Radio Munich’s school
broadcasting program, the first issue
of 30,000 copies of the education
magazine Schulfunk (School of the

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Air), has been published in Bavaria
with the cooperation of Radio Munich.
It contains the monthly radio program
as well as articles and pictures on the
subject broadcasts. — :

Information Centers—Military Gov-
ernment hat approved the formation
of an architectual committee, com-
posed of leading Germans in the fields
of architecture and construction, to
select material received from the US
National Housing Administration for
an architecture, housing, and city-
planning exhibit... The Ulm center
is the first to institute a special
children’s program featuring a weekly
story hour.

Radio—The world-wide significance
of US Secretary of State Marshall's
speeches before the United Nations
assembly and the ensuing debates
were highlighted in the news reports
and in commentaries broadcast by the
five US-controlled stations,

Theater—A People's Free Stage has
been established in Berlin, by US,
British, and French MG officials.
Soviet authorities already had set up
its organization. Because of a short-
age of legitimate theaters in the US
and British Sectors, the French agreed
to release one of theirs for use for
performances sponsored by the other
two sectors,

Education—Three licensed German
publishers in,Munich, with MG ap-
proval and ‘cooperation of other
Bavarian schoolbook publishers, have
completed five parts of the Arithmetic
Book for Bavarian Elementary Schools,
in. editions of 170,000 copies each.
They were finished in time for the
new school term.

Youth Activities—The first athletic
stadium ‘to be rebuilt in the US Zone
during the occupation was opened at
Karlsruhe-Muehlburg, Wuerttemberg-
Baden. It has a seating capacity of
2,000 and standing room for 18,000.

Public Health—The incidence of all
‘major communicable diseases did not
change significantly from the August
average, except for the poliomyelitis
epidemic in Berlin, which increased
further during September,

Public Welfare—The number of per-
sons receiving public assistance in the
US Zone during August was approx-
imately 1,290,000, or 51,000 fewer than
during July,

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 71, Hq EUCOM,
22 August 1947. Visits by Fiancees to
Germany.

Official Travel —- War Department
Civilian Employees, AG 230.42 GPA-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 27 August 1947.
Cites regulations governing all travel.

Reduction of the Load Placed on
the German Civil Communications
System hy the Occupational Forces,
AG 311 (IA), OMGUS, 28 August 1947.

Military Post and Sub-Post Strength
and Quarters Report, AG 320.2 GPA-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 28 August 1947.
States this report will bear Reports
Control Symbol ECGPA-43 and will
be submitted as of the 15th of each
month,

Arts and Crafts Contest for US
Military and Civilian Personnel, AG
353.8 SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 8 Sep-
tember 1947, Cites the rules govern-
ing the entries submitted,

Promotion of Enlisted Personnel,
AG 220.2 GPA-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM,
9 September 1947, Rescinds USFET
letter, AG 220.2 GAP-AGP-B, 14 Feb-
ruary 1947, and cites new instruc-
tions.

Changes No 3, USFET-SOP 72, Hq
EUCOM, 11 September 1947. Cites
further amendment to Standing Oper-
ating Procedure No 72, USFET,
26 November 1945.

Memorandum No 99, H. EUCOM,
11 September 1947. Gives substitution
for EUCOM Memorandum 89, para-
graph 4, b, (1), 18 August 1947,

Circular No 79, Hq EUCOM, 19 Sep-
tember 1947. Section I — Allow-
ances of Class V Chemical Corps
Supplies; Section II—-EUCOM Motion
Picture Service; Section III — Indivi-
dual Transportation in the European
Command; Section IV — Military
Justice; Section V — Monthly Status
Report and Roster of Labor Service
Units; Section VI — Reassignment
of Officers; Section VII — Reclassifi-
cation of Officers; Section VIII —
Recissions.

Small Arms Competitions, AG 353
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 20 September
1947, Lists. winners of .the 1947
EUCOM Rifle and Pistol Matches.

Routine Procedure for Providing a
Means for Checking Deutsche Post
Bills, AG 311.2 SIG-AGO, Hg EUCOM
22 September 1947,

Signal SOP No 70, Signal Messenger
Service, Hq EUCOM, 22 September
1947, Supersedes Signal SOP No 70
of 25 August 1947.

1947  EUCOM Football Champion-
ships, AG 353.8 SSP-ALO, Hq EUCOM,
23 September 1947. Cites rules and
responsibilites for the 1947 EUCOM
football season.

Weekly Directive No 7, Hy EUCOM
26 September 1947. Contains follow-
ing sections:

Sec I — Enlistments of Persons
Discharged for. Dependency or Hard-
ship, AG 340 AGP-B. Rescinds
EUCOM letter, 13 August 1947,

Sec II — Omission of Film Subjects
from Regularly Scheduled Motion
Picture Programs, AG 331.7 SSP, Con-
cerns the deletions of newsreels and
motion picture trailers from theater
programs.

Sec III — Dependent School Serv-
ice in Occupied Zones, AG 352 GPA.

Sec IV — Budget and Fiscal Pro-
cedures, Instructions and Information,
AG 120 BFD. Concerns filing reports
on Forms .WD AGO .14—131 and
14—132 in triplicate with the Office of
the Deputy Budget and Fiscal Di-
rector on or before the 15th of each
month, E

Sec V — Board of Officers Proceed-
ings, Army Exchange Service, AG
333.5 GPA,

Sec’ VI — Dependents Schools
Tuition Fees, AG 352 GPA. Cites
instruction and responsibility’ for
collecting tuition accounts.

Sec VII — Military Police on
Military Duty Trains, AG 322 GSP.

‘Amends para 3a/of EUCOM letter AG

322 PMG-AGO, 29 May 1947,

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Weekly Information

Bulletin may be obtained by

, Writing directly to the originating
headquarters, :

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF