--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
opr MARBURG
LAUTERBACH
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
BODINGEN

OFFENBACH
GRossz
GERAU
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD’
BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH
7
OFSHEIM
EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRUCHSAE
HEILBRONN
as BACKNANG
PEORZHEIM
LEONBERG
BOBLINGEN Foases|

ROTEN BURG

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

JUVENILE DELINQUENTS—A general view

of the inside grounds of the Niederschoenen-

feld reformatory in Bavaria, as the inmates

take a walk. An article on juvenile delin-

quents appears on page 5. (Photo by Hannes
Betzler)

OUR CONTRIBUTORS IN EF O R MAT I O N

Plants for Reparations was compiled from
the official announcements by the US and
British Military Governments, and the texts
of speeches by leading officials handling the
bipartite arrangements in detailing the final
list of war and surplus industrial plants
declared for reparations from the two zones.

Material for Reforming Juvenile Delin-

quents was provided by the Prisons Branch, T ‘ABLE OF Cc ONTENTS

Legal Division, OMGUS. The photographs
were made by Hannes Betzler, Munich, at

the Niederschoenenfeld reformatory in Issue No1i6 27 October 1947
Bavaria.

Collections is the last in the series on
Maximization of Agriculture as adapted Review of Occupational Activities. . ....- 2

from a document prepared by the Food and
Agriculture Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS. Reforming Juvenile Delinquents. ....-..+.- 5

Feeding the Hungry in Bavaria was written

Plante for Reparations 2 j <:7. te egt hata eh eee

by Haynes R. Mahoney, chief of the Public Feeding the Hungry in Bavaria. . . . . - + 8
Information Branch, OMGUS, from infor- Maximization of Agriculture, Part5. . .... + 11
mation obtained from the Food and Agricul-

ture Branch, Economic Division, OMGB. Mr. German Reactions bans Onan cenit Soo ip
Mahoney, an officer with the artillery dur- Plants Listed for Reparations. . ..-.-++ + 17

ing the war, was acting deputy chief of the
Public Information Branch, OMGB, between
May 1945 and March 1947, after which he
was appointed to his present job. He is a
native of Jacksonville, Fla.

Official Unstructionss/b | Gute sisisit cease) +) coated asne

NEXT WEEK

Articles scheduled for Issue No. 117 deal
with machinery and optics, impounded Ger-
man films, Army assistance to the GYA, and
public information. A directory of key per-
sonnel in Military Government will be in- OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
cluded with publication of the Station List. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
REVIEW OF US OCCUPATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Digest of the Semi-Monthly Military Government Report
No. 77 for the Period Ended 13 October 1947

Bizonal — The Bizonal Economic
Council has been instructed that im-
ported bread grains are to be made
available to the Laender only in the
quantities necessary. To supplement
approved indigenous delivery quotas,
and that failure to deliver such
quotas is to be reflected immediately
in the ration level of the defaulting
Land, rather than at the end of the
collection season,

Law and Order — Crime incidence
and arrests continued to decrease in
all Laender of the US Zone ....
Special measures employed by the
Wuerttemberg-Baden rural police for
the protection of the potato harvest
have shown excellent results. Har-
vests have been reaching the desig-

nated collection points with a mini-

mum of police assistance. ... In-
structions on riot control have been
prepared by the minister for the
interior for Hesse to be forwarded to
police agencies of that Land.

Border Crossing — The number of
persons arrested for illegal border

Action on Coal Thefts

In order to reduce coal pilferage
during the coming winter, the
German General Administration
for Inland Waterways and Inland
Water Transport has instructed
individual masters and crews of
their responsibility for the safe
delivery of cargoes. Arrangements
are to be made with German
police forces in areas bordering
the routes to insure that added
assistance will be available in
cases of necessity,

crossing and the number of persons
attempting to cross the border without
valid travel documents decreased in
Bavaria. No illegal border crossers
have been expelled through the Ref-
ugee Exchange Point at Hof, Bavaria,
since 28 August as a result of the
Soviet policy of non-acceptance of
illegal border crossers at this point.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Rationing — The normal consumer
in the US-UK Zones will receive an
average of 1,425 calories of rationed
food per day during the 107th ration
period of 13 October to 9 November,
as compared with 1,430 calories dur-
ing the preceding period. The dif-
ference is due to the fact that the
drought has lowered dairy production
so that only half of the authorized

Information Centers

“Amerika Haus” has been
selected as the new name for the
US Information Centers in Ger-
many. Because of its effective-
ness in the reorientation pro-
gram, the Information Center
program will be expanded with
the establishment of seven addi-
tional centers, including one in
Hamburg, British Zone, under
supervision of the US Consul
General. There are 20 Amerika
Haeuser now in operation in the
US Occupied Areas of Germany.

Railroads — Because of critical
shortages of manpower for rehabili-
tation of railroad repair shops, ap-
proximately six percent of shop per-
sonnel have been transferred from
rolling stock repair to shop rehabili-
tation .... The US Army has te-
leased to the German Railroad System
35,000 shirts, 100,000 jackets, 20,000
mackinaws, and 50,000 woolen trou-
sers as winter clothing.

Road Transport — Of the vehicles
turned over in 1946 to the German
authorities, 300 more have been re-
paired and placed in service in tne
German highway transport economy
... A total of 31,535 tires has arrived
in Germany from the United States
and the United Kingdom under the
tire import program formulated to
bolster the transportation economy.

Highways — German authorities
have been instructed to repair the high-
way between Munich and Fuersten-
feldbruck, Bavaria, an important
link in the military road net.... A
20 percent reduction in the fuel con-

cheese ration of 125 grams per nor-
mal consumer can be distributed.

Food Imports — During September,
food imports valued at $50,000,000
arrived from the United States for
German civilians in the US-UK Zones.
Shipments consisted of 498,300 short
tons of breadgrains and flour and
some 1,650 short tons of other food-
stuffs, including dried milk, rolled oats,
pulses, and miscellaneous items. In ad-
dition, about 870 short tons of meat,
cheese, vegetables, and miscellaneous
food items purchased in Europe at a
cost of $229,000 arrived in the bizonal
area.

Inland Waterways — Jn order to
keep all serviceable craft in active
use, the German General Administra-
tion for Inland Waterways and In-
land Water Transport has directed
the Bremen Transport Zentrale to
issue a port regulation stating that
no craft is to be used for storage
purposes unless the Zentrale gives
permission.

Good -Will Fellowship

An organization has been form-
ed in Stuttgart under the name
of International Good-Will Fel-
lowship. Membership is non-politi-
cal and open to young persons
irrespective of race, creed, or
nationality. The fellowship plans
to promote interchange of groups
and individuals from foreign
countries, to arrange for foreign
correspondence, to organize lan-
guage courses, and to sponsor
entertainment and recreational
activities.

sumption of authorized German pas-
senger cars and motorcycles has been
ordered in the bizonal area duriag
October, thus making approximately
4,950 short tons of gasoline available
for use in motor vehicles engaged in
transporting the harvest crop.
Electric Power — As a result of
the severe drought, hydrogeneration

(Continued on Page 20)

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 6 ---
NE HUNDRED and eighty-six

specifically named war and sur-
plus industrial plants in the US Oc-
cupied Areas of Germany are listed
as available for distribution as rep-
arations among the 20 Allied nations
which suffered from German aggres-
sion. The distributions are to be made
in accordance with procedures of the
Allied Control Authority and the
Inter-Allied Reparations Agency.

The plants are among 682 war and
surplus industrial factories listed by
the Military Governors of the US and
British Zones for reparations from the
Combined US-UK Area under the new
Bizonal Level of Industry Plan. This
total compares with the more than
1,660 which originally had been con-
sidered for reparations in the two
zones under the old evel of industry
plan.

In a radio address to the German
people detailing the background prior
to the announcement of the new list
of plants, Maj. Gen. George P. Hays,
US Deputy Military Governor, de-
clared:

“The Potsdam Agreement established
the principle that one of the pri-
mary objectives of the occupation of
Germany was the establishment of
military and economic security
against renewed German aggression,
not the maximizing of reparations re-
ceipts. Second, it was agreed that rep-
arations should be paid by Germany
in kind, rather than in cash, the pay-
ment in kind to be made out of such
German assets as would—if left under
German control—constitute an eco-
nomic base for future aggression but
would, if received as reparations,
hasten the economic recovery of the
United Nations.”

27 OCTOBER 1947

Referring to the Four-Power agree-
ment of March 1946 on the extent of
these reparations, General Hays con-
tinued: “Experience has taught us
that this plan was impracticable. A
cut and quartered Germany, with
economic barriers separating the four
zones, could never become self-sup-
porting. The United States and British
Military Governments were determined
to reduce the cost of the occupa-
tion, and at the same time assist the
Germans in recovering a tolerable
standard of living so that they could
assume their place in the world com-
munity.

“It was decided, therefore, in view
of the failure of the powers to agree
upon economic unity, to make it pos-
sible for the bizonal area to get back
on its feet and make its contribution

3

TWO PULVERIZERS from a power plant at
Gendorf, Bavaria, being dismantled for ship-
ment to Russia as reparations.

(Signal Corps photo)

to general European recovery. The
only way to do this was to increase
the industrial capacity to be left in
Germany, and take immediate steps
to dismantle the reparations plants
considered surplus to a level of in-
dustry to that of 1936.”

HE ADOPTION of the revised

industrial plan was announced
jointly on 29 August by General Lu-
cius D. Clay and Marshal of the Roy-
al Air Force Sir Sholto Douglas, Mil-
itary Governors, respectively, of the
US and British Zones. Likewise they
announced jointly on 16 October the
list of plants to be made available

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
ty

for reparations under the new plan,
saying:

“We have been conscious of the
importance of enabling German in-
dustry to have the certainty which
is the basis of sound plannings, and
the list now published will clear
away the doubts which have pre-
viously existed. It contains plants
which have already been removed as
well as those which must still go.

“Among the former are all the war
plants of the two zones, although a
large proportion of these have al-
ready been dismantled or destroyed,
and also the advanced reparations
plants which were made available by
the zone commanders in the fall of
1945, It now names in addition those
plants which are not required to sup-
port the new level of industry, and
which will now be declared to the
Allied Control Council as available
for reparations to those, countries
which suffered from the war of
aggression.

“The surplus capacity has been
chosen with great care to ensure that
a balanced industrial economy, ca-
pable of self-support and of making
a large contribution to the economic
rehabilitation, not only of Germany
but also of Europe, is left in Germany.
In the selection of plants particular
care has been taken to avoid wher-
ever possible the creation of local
unemployment.”

The appropriate German economic
agencies at Land level were given the
opportunity to submit within 14 days
after the announcement of the list
“well-founded suggestions for the
substitution of equivalent individual
plants” for consideration. As was
emphasized in every official state-
ment on the subject, the list “does
not contain plants in certain prohibited
industries, the future of which is
under review.” The joint statement of
the Military Governors concluded:

“The very substantial increase in
the bizonal level of industry and the
corresponding reduction in the num-
ber of plants to be made available
for reparations reflect the importance
attached by Military Government to
the reestablishment of a viable
economy in Germany. Conversely, the
fact that it has been necessary to

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

: . .
Revised Level of Restricted Industries
The following figures show the revised level of restricted industries in
the. US/UK Zones of Germany:
wwe Estimated Revised | Productio
Industry or . iJon | Revised | Existing | Revise see
; Unit + 1936 ity | Level as | as % of
Branch of industry Production | Level | Capacity lop"Cr i936] existing
capacity
1. Steel 0.0.2... poodboae . | Mill. tons 14.9 10.7 19.2 2
(rated
; cap.) q
2. Primary Nonferrous Metal
a. (Production) «
Copper, Crude... «| 1000t 128 184 96
Copper, Refined . 2] 1000 215 231 93
Zinc, Refined . | 1000 t 180 180 100
Lead, Refined - vs. | 1000¢ 141 141 100
b. Semi-fabricating and
Casting
Copper and Zinct 1000 t 596 535 605 90 88
Lead 1000 t 72.5 52.2 52.2 72 100

8. Mechanical Engineering
Machinery
Heavy Machinery .. | Mill. RMs 619 500 175 80 6
Light Machinery . : | Mill. RM 769 916 | 1,195 119 77
Machine Tools -.. +.| Mill. RM 206 170 259 83 65

4. Automobile and Tractors
Passenger Cars... 1000 units 160 190 84
Commercial Veh. 1000 units 61.5 65 95
Agricultural and Roa‘

Tractors. 1000 units 19.5% 16.5 lOver100

5. Fine Mechanics and Optics | Mill. RM* 180 248.7 | 307.7 | 188 81
Electrical Equ. vee | Mill. RM 830 1,237 | 1,291 149 96
Cement ....... Mill. t 7 8.9 114 | 127

(pro- (rated
duction) | cap.)

6. Chemicals TOTAL . Mill. RM* | 2,325 2,071 | 4,194 98 ba
Basic chemicals . Mill. RM 270 283 288 103 98
Synth. ammonia‘ Mill. RM 95 118 118 124 100
Inorg. chemicals ...... Mill. RM 180 180 240 100 br
Misc. chem. (incl. military
explos.) .... 1,095 1,066 | 2,821 7 38
Organic chemicals 160 160 225 100 7
Dyestufis ....... 180 173 176 96 98
Pharmaceuticals . 270 228 263 84 8?
Tar Distillation .- br 63 63 84 100

1 Combined, as capacity is mainly for production of alloys in the same plants.

* Existing capacity is less than proposel level.

3 Measiired in 1936 prices.

« Temporarily retained. *

curtail the reparations due to the
victims of German aggression makes
it imperative that the surplus plant
capacity as now determined be made
available without delay.

“In announcing these decisions, we
wish to make it clear that all ne-
cessary steps for the speediest pos-
sible fulfillment of the program will
be taken so that on the one hand
German industry may get ahead with
its constructive tasks, and on the
other hand, that the nations receiving
reparations of capital plant and equip-
ment may be able to turn these re-
sources to good account during these
next few years when the economic
recovery of Europe must be expedited
by every possible means,”

F THE 186 FACTORIES being
removed from the US Occupied
Areas, there are 104 plants which

4

had been erected or put into use sole-
ly for making war equipment,
supplies, and apparatus, while the re-
maining 82 plants were found to be
surplus under the new level of in-
dustry plan. The locations of these
by regiogal areas are:

%
g oa § és
Industry & ¢ $8 33
5 2 33 § ua
a © BA s 5D
War Plants ...... 64 27 9 4&4 0
Ferrous Metals’! 1) 0 3 1 1 0
Non-Ferrous Metals’; 2 2 1 0 0
Chemicals ....... 7 8 3 0 0
Mechanical
Engineering ...... 13 11 24 0 1
Electrical
Engineering ...... 0 0 0 0 0O
Shipbuilding” 3:31! 0 0 0 1 0
Power Piants | 200 1 1 ~«0
Total 88 51 39° 7 «1

(Note: The complete list of these
Plants is given at the end of this

article.) (Continued on Page 15)

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 8 ---
Reforming

ORE THAN 2,000 youths between
14 and 18 years of age are in
juvenile correction institutions in US-
occupied Germany, mainly for of-
fenses resulting from current economic
conditions, such as petty thievery.
Unlike old German prison conditions,
the delinquents live in an atmosphere
designed to bring about their rehabili-
tation and reformation.

The Prisons Branch, a unit of the
Legal Division in each Land OMG
and at OMGUS, is aiding the Germans
in maintaining this atmosphere. A
dozen prison officers make regular in-
spections of the 270 prisons in US-
occupied territory. They are guided
by Allied Control Authority Directive
No. 19, “Principles for the Administra-
tion of German Prisons", which sets
forth as basic objectives the exact
execution of the sentence imposed,
and the rehabilitation and reformation
of the offender.

To bring about the second of these
objectives, it directs that provision be
made for work, to show the prisoner
that it is a practical substitution for
criminal ways; for schooling, so that
he will be fitted upon release to take
his place in society as a law-abiding
and self-supporting citizen; for spe-
cialized care, in order that the indi-
vidual physical and psychological dif-
ficulties of the prisoner may receive
appropriate treatment; and for “re-
cognition of the principle that no
human being shall be considered as
abandoned or perverse beyond re-
demption.”

The traditional German prison con-
sisted of separate cells with solid
masonry walls and a solid door, in
which a prisoner slept, worked, and
ate alone. A primitive bucket-type
toilet, a wash basin, and a pitcher of
water were provided in each cell. The
only interruption in this solitary con-

JUVENILE delinquents planting, exercising,
and chopping wood at the Niederschoenen-
feld reformatory, Bavaria.

finement occurred once a day when
the prisoners were taken to walk in a
circle, in single file, for a half-hour
exercise period. Recreation was un-
known, and education neglected. As
the prisons often lacked sufficient
work to occupy the majority of their
inmates, the prisoners were forced to
do little but sit in their cells and
brood.

HE FIRST modern unwalled re-

formatory in the US Zone was
established at the instigation of MG
prison officers at Laufen-Lebenau, in
the southeastern corner of Bavaria, in
March 1946. It is situated in beautiful
mountain country in the midst of a
large nursery serving the German
forest maintenance service. Much
healthful outdoor work is thereby
available for the boys and there also

DELINQUENTS in the classroom, singing in
to use the sewing

a chorus, and learning
machine.

(Photos by Hannes Betzler)

--- Page 9 ---
is ample space for athletics and other
recreational activities. Large dormi-
tories house thé inmates, instead of
individual cellls. When opened, it was
the only major institution in the US
Zone where inmates were fed in
groups in dining halls, rather than
singly in their cells.

The first director of the Laufen-
Lebenau reformatory was a Catholic
priest, Johann Neumair, who initiated
a program of building discipline from
within the individual delinquent and
groups of delinquents, rather than im-
posing it from above. As a result, the
boys developed a higher morale, re-
placing the spirit of repression gener-
ally characterizing German prisoners.

Despite the absence of walls or
other strong safeguards, the number
of escapes has not been excessive.
Laufen demonstrated to German pri-
son authorities that for juveniles at
least, with proper classification and
management of inmates, the costly
and restrictive security devices typic-
al of other German prisons are un-
necessary.

EDERSCHOENENFELD reformat-
ory, in Bavaria, a remodeled 17th
century cloister, was chosen by Military
Government to demonstrate to the Ger-
mans that despite many poorly con-
structed prisons, improvements over
prevailing practices could be achieved
by more enterprising and imaginative
management. The education program
at this institution had consisted of the
weaving of grass mats in the cells
and scheduled English classes. The
latter actually existed only on paper,
in what apparently was an attempt to
please MG officials. There was no
constructive discipline, no recreation,
the food was poorly prepared, and
the institution was inexcusably dirty.
After months of futile attempts to
improve conditions by offering sug-
gestions to the old staff, the chief
prisons officer for OMG Bavaria per-
suaded the Bavarian Minister of
Justice, on 1 November 1946 to ap-
point a new, progressive director. He
was Dr. Wilhelm Flick, who had been
a lecturer on psychology for teachers.
Dr. Flick very quickly impressed
upon the staff that reformation and
rehabilitation were the objectives

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

RECREATION plays a part in the reformation program at the Nieder-
schoenenfeld institution. Here, two boys put on the gloves as other in-
mates look on. (Hannes Betzler)

6 27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
of prison operation instead of severe
punishment. Each of the inmates of
Niederschoenenfeld was given a thor-
ough individual psychological exami-
nation to find the type of work for
which he was best suited, what his
interests were, what led him to com-
mit the crime for which he was im-
prisoned, and whether his education
could be improved.

It was not long before each prisoner
had a work assignment for at least
part of the day, with a part spent in
school, The school curriculum has
been steadily expanded to include a
variety of academic and vocational
subjects. Intramural sport programs
were organized and the library was
greatly improved by contributions
solicited from various outside agencies.

The inmates were encouraged to
decorate their cells, particularly with
photographs of friends and relatives
and with products of a painting and
handicraft program developed in the
prison. Several choirs and an
orchestra were organized, and regu-
lar entertainment programs were ar-
ranged for the prisoners, utilizing
inmate talent. Sunday and holiday
hikes and tours outside the institution
were organized for groups of boys
whose behavior had been exemplary.

Dr. Flick also insisted that the entire
institution be kept spotless and by
diligent effort obtained a greater
variety of foodstuffs for the prisoners’
diet, improving its mineral and vitamin
content, and causing a definite rise
in the average weight and general
health of the inmates. The effect of
all these changes was to totally
transform Niederschoenenfeld, despite
the disadvantages of the decrepit
structures in which it is situated, so
that it has become probably the best-
run juvenile institution in US-occu-
pied Germany.

Early in 1947 the reformatory at
Laufen-Lebenau was reorganized and
a psychologist also was placed in
charge there. Under the new director,
Dr. Hans Buettner, discipline is stricter
but morale has increased. A testing
program has been started, as well as
a system of classifying the boys on
the basis of their behavior. A variety

(Continued on Page 18)

INMATE of Niederschoenenfeld re-
formatory, Bavaria, using the parallel
bars as part of the institution's re-
creation program. (Hannes BetzJer)

--- Page 11 ---
fpee AVERAGE Bavarian frequently complains

that the food situation is terrible, he cannot
live on his ration card, and the only people living
well today are “those gangsters—the big—time
black marketeers,’’ but a little study of the
situation reveals that he is fortunate to get as
much to eat as he does from indigenous sources,
with the addition of the huge supplemental im-
ports of food from the United States into the
Combined US—UK Area.

How can a land which formerly fed 6,000,000
persons, and shipped only small amounts of
potatoes, fat, and meat to its neighboring states,
now feed some 9,000,000, and continue its ex-
ports despite deteriorating farm equipment, lack
of fertilizer and an inflated currency? The answer
lies in close cooperation between Military

MAJ. BROOKS BOOKER, executive officer of the Munich
Military Government Detachment, inspects freshly-dressed
beef in the storage plant of the stock yards at Munich.

(Signal Corps photo)

Government and the civilian govern-
ment, and leadership by German food
administrators,

The present collection and distri-
bution machinery has been completely
rebuilt since the collapse of the Nazi-
created system before the sweep of
the American armies across Bavaria
in the late spring of 1945. At that
time, little of the complex Nazi food
organization remained. Officials fled.
Offices closed. Records were removed
or destroyed. Grocery stores and
bakeries shut down overnight and did
not reopen. Warehouses were looted.

Military Government teams moved
in with the armies and quickly as-
sumed control. Each team assumed
the authority needed in terms of the
local situation. Ration scales, centrally
announced by radio, were modified
locally according to food availability.
Transportation from-surplus to deficit
areas was virtually impossible.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Food stores, bakeries, butcher
shops, warehouses, and processing
plants were immediately ordered to
reopen and continue operations under
locally enforced rationing systems.
Officials in the local food offices and
agencies were ordered to resume nor-
mal operations as far as possible.
Food stocks were located and trucks
were requisitioned to transport food
to them. Gradually a semblance of
order began to appear out of the
chaos as the food supply problem lo-
cally came under control. The people
were fed.

In June 1945, a Military Govern-
ment team was established at regional
level in Munich to act as counterpart
and supervisor to the new Bavarian
food and agriculture section whose
function was to untangle the confused

8

authority over food and agriculture
and establish a legal guardian for the
food supply. Food supply problems
were magnified by the influx of ref-
ugees, fleeing Nazis, and retreating
soldiers, raising the Bavarian popula-
tion from 7,500,000 in 1944 to 10,000,000
in the summer of 1945. The Bavarian
Population today has become sta-
bilized at slightly more than 9,000,000
persons, .

RIOR to the occupation, food and

agriculture authority in Bavaria
had been split several ways. Agri-
cultural research and_ production
functions were carried on by a séction
of the Bavarian Economics Ministry.
Food production and delivery opera-
tions were directed by Reich-con-
trolled cooperatives, to which all farm-
ers belonged by law. The processes

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
of collection and delivery of the food
to market were directed from Berlin
through marketing associations which
by compulsion embraced all whole-
salers, food handlers, and other dis-
tributors. Also directed from Berlin
were the agencies charged with su-
pervising storage and use of food re-
serves brought in from occupied
countries. At Land level was a poly-
glot organization charged with super-
vising the rationing system and po-
licing the other sections of this or-
ganizational octopus.

With the elimination of the central
Reich food control, and the emphasis
on a decentralized government, the
first objective of Bavarian Military
Government's food and agriculture
section was to establish a Land au-
thority to take over the remaining
strands of the disintegrated Nazi sys-
tem. Accordingly a food and agri-
culture administration was organized
under the Bavarian Economics Min-
istry, with a farm-manager and form-
er member of the Bavarian People’s
Party appointed by the minister pres-
ident as its first chief. Under his
leadership the task of reestablishing
food control began.

Hundreds of Nazi-tainted officials,
at all levels were barred from office,

cords reassembled or created anew.
All Wehrmacht and Reich food re-
serve warehouses were placed under
control of the central authority.
However, there was little inclination
on the part of local officials to follow
orders of the land food office to ship
reserves to deficit areas when this
meant depriving their communities of
obvious sources of supply.

Gradually, as railroad bridges and
trackage were repaired, rolling stock
put back into use, gasoline supplied
for requisitioned trucks, and telephone
systems reactivated, the transportation
and communication system began to
link all parts of Bavaria with its
central control, providing for a more
even food distribution.

Y THE BEGINNING of the 77th
ration period on 25 June 1945,
there seemed to be assurance that
central orders would be honored. For
this period the normal consumer ra-
tion was 1,000 calories daily, having
risen from 850 at the time of the
German collapse, Well-stocked cellars
retained by many families, and extra
rations at the discretion of local of-
fices, raised the average caloric in-
take well above these levels.
Meanwhile, the new agriculture
authority continued to improve its

ciently established to assure that all
official orders could be met. With this
improvement of distribution, plus the
discovery of new reserves and the
receding tide of illicit trading, the
ration scales could be increased to
1,300 calories daily for the normal
consumer by fall.

In November 1945 a series of MG
agricultural conferences in Frankfurt
resulted in the establishment of zonal
control of agriculture and the raising
of the official ration to 1,550 calories
daily. In Bavaria this provided. a
higher bread ration, but a reduction
in meat supply. Shipments of food to
other Laender began. The fact that
zone-wide ration scales could be
established, and interzonal shipments
of food begun indicated the good pro-
gress in reestablishing food and agri-
culture control] machinery.

With the dismissal of the first Ba-
varian minister president and his cab-
inet in September 1945, and the for-
mation of a new Land government,
the food and agriculture administra-
tion was lifted to ministry status
under the direction of Dr. Josef Baum-
gartner, an anti-Nazi who had fled to
Austria in 1933, Under his administra-

POTATO collection being inspected by Maj.

and replacements found; offices had Brooks Booker, executive officer of the

administration until by the fall po-
to be located and repaired, and re-

tato harvest, control had been suffi-

Munich Military Government Detachment,
and a Bavaria farmer in Landkreis Munich.
(Signal Corps photo)

--- Page 13 ---
tion food and agriculture controls
continued to improve.

Today, the record of the Food and
Agriculture Ministry compares favor-
ably with the best records of the past.
Potato collections have been higher
than the amounts collected by Nazi
food administrators; grain is about
the same, meat also is higher, due to
forced slaughter because of lack of
feed, and while milk deliveries have
suffered because of feed shortages,
the level had not dropped as far as
in other dairying areas of Germany.

This record has been achieved
without the threats of strict punish-
ments used by the Nazis, such as
drafting farmers or their sons into the
army for failure to deliver. It has
been achieved without the war psy-
chology of “sacrifice for the father-
land," and in spite of the greater

shortage of fertilizer, the deterioration .

of farm equipment and the deflated
purchasing power of the mark.

MG food and agriculture officers
give two important reasons for this
success: First, that Bavaria remained
intact as a geographical unit, allow-
ing it to quickly reorganize the col-
lection and distribution machinery
abandoned by the Nazis, and_ sec-
ondly the leadership and initiative
of Dr. Baumgartner and his staff.

The agriculture minister personnally

» addressed hundreds of meetings with

farmers, food officials, mayors and
Kreis officials, and enlisted the sup-
port of all agencies involved with
food production, collection, and dis-
tribution. Another factor was the
influence of the church. Local priests
wielded a strong influence among the
farmers, and church authorities gen-
erally supported the‘food program.

|O “MAINTAIN: its good record, the
Food and Agriculture Ministry.
converted the Reich-controlled system

~ toa land-directed administration. An

agriculture branch under the ministry
assigns planting and delivery quotas
to each farm through its local agri-
culture offices. A food collection
branch supervises collection of the
quotas from farms through its food
offices “A” in each Landkreis. For
this three or four inspectors and spe-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

cialists are attached to each office to
check collections and investigate the
activities of farmers with short de-
livery records. In addition, the min-
istry maintains a control and in-
Spection section, which includes a
group of 75 inspectors who act as
“trouble shooters” investigating areas
where deliveries have been especially
bad, and carrying out special pro-
grams of the ministry.

Currently supplementing the min-
istry’s local and central inspectors—
MG Liaison and Security officers—are
checking local potato production as
to the degree of Bavarian accuracy
in crop estimates.

In the distribution picture, there
are several quasi-governmental mar-
keting associations for grain, po-
tatoes, milk and fat, livestock and
meat, and fruits and vegetables. These
associations receive food stocks from
producer and arrange for sale and
distribution to wholesalers and other
food handlers.

For the final step, food offices “B"
in each Kreis effect distribution of
ration tickets and control the final dis-
tribution of food to stores, shops,
and restaurants. Three or four in-
spectors assigned to each office en-
force rationing and pricing reg-
ulations.

Altogether, some 3,000 persons are
engaged in supervising the production
of food on some 500,000 farms and
the distribution to 6,500,000 non-self
suppliers in Bavaria.

HE BAVARIAN Agriculture Min-

istry and. the Bavarian farmers
have not always responded satis-
factorily to Military Government di-
rectives or to emergency require-
ments. The land reform program has
lagged because of long delay in de-
veloping implementing orders to the
law, but a recent meeting between
Bavarian and MG officials concerned
has produced a cooperative drive to
complete transfer of title to new
landowners by 31 December. Farmers
in Bavaria, as in other Laender, have
resisted the livestock readjustment
program which required a 10 percent
reduction in the livestock population
to provide more land for human-con-

10

sumption crops, until the current
drought and resulting shortage of
forage forced delivery of cattle to
the slaughterers.

Farmers also failed to increase their
Planting acreage this year, according
to plan, owing in part to the failure
to reduce livestock and the land re-
quirements for feed production, and
in part to the unwillingness of farm-
ers to take on added soil cultivation
with the current shortages of farm
implements, seed and fertilizer.

The fertilizer supply has ‘been in-
creased and greater imports of seed
are promised, so that a better chance
exists for attaining the objectives of
this program next year, which re-
quires an increase in acreage to the
1938 level, Germany's most productive
year.

An original Bavarian reluctance to
meet delivery quotas of food to other
Laender of the US Zone during 1946
has now been corrected through pres-
sure from Military Government and
a growing awareness of Bavarian.
officials of the necessity of coopera-
tion in the bizonal program. During
the past summer, Bavaria exceeded
its delivery quotas in meat, fats, and
cheese to Berlin, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
Hesse, and the British Zone.

The present machinery for distri-
buting a limited amount of food to
the greatest number has proved
soundly serviceable. Ninety-five per-
cent of the available food has gone
into the shopping bags and bread-
baskets of the hungry multitudes.
Black marketing and compensation
trading have been slight.

But for the future, the Bavarian
food and agriculture administration
faces a greater test during the next
year than ever before, as the con-
tinued shortage creates greater dan-
ger of increased black market acti-
vities and uneven food distribution
through illlegal channels. The final
battle in the struggle against hunger
is far from won, but for the first two
years the Bavarian agricultural ad-
ministration has successfully with-
stood the economic pressures of a
hungry population.

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
NLY AT THE TIME of the harvest
can the last word be said as to
the total amounts of food actually
available in each area. The planting
record of each farmer is already on
file in his local food office and his
delivery obligations are, in general,
listed on the same records. Increasing
efforts are made to check actual deliv-
eries against actual harvest. That is,
in each locality the collection of prin-
cipal crops is supervised by a re-
cently established procedure under
which the local agricultural author-
ities cooperate with the local mayor
and with representatives of consumer
and labor groups to make ‘sure that
each farmer delivers the maximum.
It is a case of farmers being
checked by their own neighbors—who
are in best position to know how
much food each farmer has actually
harvested—and whose interest as con-
sumers and local officials are to get
the highest possible deliveries for use
of the rationed populace. A summary
of the Kreis collection records is kept
by each Land ministry of agriculture,
where card indexes are balanced
monthly.

27 OCTOBER 1947

The delivery of the main crops is
also limited as to time. Forty percent
of breadgrains must be delivered by
31 October, 75 percent by 31 Decem-
ber, and 100 percent by February 1948.
Earlier delivery is difficult because
of the practice of threshing during
the winter months. For potatoes,
60 percent must be delivered by
31 October and 100 percent by 30 No-
vember,

Special incentives are provided to
encourage full delivery of*quotas by
even earlier dates. For example, in
Land Hesse the grain millings left
over from flour extraction are pressed
into fodder cakes which are allocated
solely to farmers who complete their
full grain-delivery quotas ahead of
schedule. Burlap bags and certain
other production essentials are also
distributed on a similar basis.

Limitation of supplies suitable for
this purpose has prevented an ex-
tensive development of a premium
plan; but it is hoped that when future
world foods supply conditions permit
lowering the present extremely high
extraction rates required in Germany
(99 percent for clean wheat and rye),

11

then a larger supply of millings for
fodder cake incentives might be made
available. Since extremely-high-ex-
traction flour has a relatively low
digestability coefficient, the difference
between a 90 percent and a 99 per-
cent extraction is only partly avail-
able nutritionally—and it may well be
that development of such an incen-
tive plan, based on fodder cake from
millings, might actually result in
higher total availability of calories
from indigenous deliveries than does
the present system.

PECIAL MEASURES have been put

into effect to requisition all trans-
portation at harvest time—especially
because of critical shortage of local
storage facilities at delivery point in
tural areas.

Other premiums generally in effect
are for edible oil seeds delivered to
the crushing mills for which premiums
are higher the earlier the oil seed is
delivered; refined sugar for sugar-beet
deliveries, and extra butter rations
for above-average milk deliveries,

Supplies of machines and im-
plements, saddlery materials, such as

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
harnesses and leather for repairs;
fuels for tractors, materials for build-
ing and repair; and hand tools and
equipment are too limited to be effec-
tive incentives. Nevertheless the farm-
er can generally obtain such scarce
articles only through his local food
offices.

Since this office is continually in-
formed concerning the delivery per-
formances of the individual farmer
and since this office is in turn
responsible to its superior office for
the fulfillment of the total delivery
obligations of its district, it naturally
allocates the few supplies it has at
its disposal only to such farmers as
cooperate by prompt delivery.

For late deliveries and for farmers
wilfully evading their obligations to
deliver, there is an increasing array
of penalties. First, for many crops
there are automatic, though slight,
reductions of price for deliveries later
in the season, At the end of the year
fines are levied for poor delivery per-
formance. In some areas where milk
deliveries fall below average, the but-
ter allowance for the household is
reduced, and in severe cases of non-
delivery the entire butter ration for
the household can be withdrawn.

Priority in fodder allocations is
given to the best deliverers, while
poor deliverers are considered in
assigning the livestock adjustment
slaughter quotas. Withdrawal of home-
slaughter permits, sugar-ration cards,
and, as a last resort, confiscation of
crops and livestock or even compul-
sory release of the farm or its confis-
cation for resettlement can be in-
voked.

Statistics on such penalties are,
however, difficult to obtain, since the
prosecutions are local. The legal basis
for fines and confiscation has only
recently been fully clarified, and pro-
secution of offenders is held up by
the generally overcrowded dockets of
the German courts.

As evidence that such penalties are
actually being enforced, however, is
the fact that for failure to live up to
milling regulations (not achieving re-
quired extraction rates) some 70 to 80
mills were closed down in Land Hesse
alone; and 163 mills in Bavaria, for

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

periods ranging from six months to a
year, with additional fines levied ex-
ceeding 2000,000 Reichsmark.

HEN AREAS as a whole are
behind delivery quotas they
also are penalized. When a surplus
Kreis is not meeting livestock or meat
shipments to another Kreis, the local
meat ration is held up until out-ship-
ments are completed. Certain areas do
not receive allocations of imported
grain until domestic grain deliveries
are up to expectations. The bizonal
German officials undertake to enforce
performance by the separate Laender
and to apply appropriate penalties for
failure to live up to Land obligation.
Penalties alone, however, can never
prevent evasion of collection controls
as long as people are hungry. It can
be said in summary that the system
for collection is a thoroughgoing one,
based on the closest controls which
the pre-occupation German officials
were able to devise and augmented
more recently and more democrati-
cally by local committees of pro-
ducers and consumers working to-
gether.

There are, in addition, inspections
by Military Government, by the bi-
zonal German offices, and by Laend-
er and Kreis officials covering each
link from production to final account-
ing in an effort to maximize the deliv-
eries of each locality. The system is
producing results which—in view of
currency devaluation, inadequate con-
sumer goods, and the terrific food
shortages in the towns—are considered
a remarkable achievement.

When normal economic relation-
ships can be restored between the
farmer and the rest of the economy,
this collection system can be expected
to operate even more effectively.

US Seed Potatoes Thrive

Spotchecks on the present potato
crop in Hesse reveal that American
seed potatoes, imported to implement
the German yield, produced a far
healthier crop than the German
strains, according to Food and Agri-
culture officials, OMG Hesse.

12

Eight Coal Companies
On Market for Sale

IGHT COAL distribution com-
panies in Stuttgart have been put

on the market for immediate sale
under specific conditions in order to
carry out certain basic MG objectives
and to establish a pattern for the dis-
posal of other industrial properties
under similar conditions. The deliv-
ery of the order to the minister pres-
ident of Wuerttemberg-Baden to pro-
ceed immediately with the sale was
announced by the Decartelization
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS.
The companies are: Jakob Trafz and

Soehne; Franz Bauerle K.G.; Louis
Thier & Cie, GmbH; Westermann
GmbH; Wuerttembergisches Kohle-

geschaeft GmbH; Raab Karcher & Cie,
GmbH; Haniel GmbH, and Kohlen-
kontor GmbH.

This action was described in the
announcement as the first step toward
the establishment of a pattern for the
sale of billions of Reichsmarks worth
of industrial property which await
disposition under the decartelization
program and the plan for dispersing
the assets of the I. G. Farben combine.

The present sales were limited in
number in order to provide “‘labora-
tory data” upon which future dissolu-
tion procedures will be based. An-
other motivating factor was the need
for information as to the market-
ability of the companies involved.
There are 166 coal distributing pro-
perties in the US Occupied Area
which remain to be sold.

The sale also was ordered to fulfill
a basic MG objective designed to in-
sure complete separation “in law and
in fact" of the coal distributing firms
and the coal wholesalers situated in
the US Zone, from companies or
organizations engaged in the mining
or processing of solid fuels.

Opel Production Rises

The Opel plant in Ruesselsheim,
Hesse, produced 350 Blitz trucks and
more than 660 electric refrigerators
during September. This was the best
monthly production on both items
since the end of the war.

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 16 ---
Revival of Comintern

The Frankische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) believed that the
revival of the old Comintern in a new
form ushers in the last phase of the
showdown between historical materi-
alism and a democracy based on
genuine religion and the idea of the
free individual. It said:

“For the German, too, the hour of
political decision has struck; be-
cause tomorrow's world will to a large
extent depend on him. The hard
times are a temptation to extreme
radicalism although up to date there
has been no indication that political—
economic radicalism can cure hard
times.

“The experiences that we Germans,
especially the workers, have passed
through, incline us to the West. In
spite of all counterpropaganda the
German mentality leans more strongly
than ever in that direction. Of that
there is no doubt.”

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten pointed
out that the new setup is simply the
old Comintern slightly changed and
“could only become dangerous if the
credulous, the ignorant and the
despairing are fooled by it and if the
true democratic forces capitulate be-
fore it.”

It continued: “We often hear that
we in Germany and perhaps Europe in
general must choose between the
American form of democracy and
Russian Communism. To accept such
an alternative would be capitulation,
too. Because the true function of de-
mocracy is not to copy or initiate,
but to work out solutions that spring
from our own soil.

“There is no safeguard against
Communism except the removal cf
misery, hunger and hopelessness. The
fate of democracy will be decided by
the way these questions are ans-
wered,.”

The Offenbach Post quoted from the
Badische Zeitung (Freiburg) that the
founding of the “Information Bureau”
in Belgrade means that Stalin is
taking back the gift he made to the
Allies after the North Africa landing.

27 OCTOBER 1947

“The new Communist International
represents itself as champion of the
independence of all countries against
‘American imperialism’.” With this
battle cry it reveals its double pur-
pose: not only to further Communist
ideology but at the same time to
serve as an instrument in the great
struggle for power between the Rus-
sians and the Americans ...

“The British, Dutch, Belgians, the
Swiss, the Scandinavians, and last but
not least the Germans are as yet aot
represented. Presumably they will
follow. However that may be, it will
not change the decisive impression:
this is not just a party-political in-
cident but a pregnant event of world
politics.”

Vote in Saar

The Siiddeutsche Allgemeine (Karls-
tuhe) pointed out that the majority
vote in the Saar for economic union
with France was almost the same as
that for Germany 12 years ago. It
continued:

“We do not want to compare the
two elections. However, the enthu-
siasm in the Saar for Hitler soon
evaporated; the Saar was pulled
down into the general chaos; it
paid heavily and bitterly for its first
decision. One may therefore regard
the present decision as a natural
reaction to 12 years of Hitler.

“Economic motives were the prime
consideration. Germany in its pre-
sent state is not very attractive...

Editor’s Note

This section ‘is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not ne-
cessarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

13

dismantlings and was spared
flux of DP’s...

“We can only hope that the Saar
may be the first step to the formation
of a United States of Europe.”

The Fraénkische Landeszeitung (Ans-
bach) regarded the result of the
Saar vote as a tragedy for all con-
cerned, unless, as is possible, it turns
out to be the first step toward a
United States of Europe.

“The mayor of Saargemuend said:
‘The Saarlaenders now turn to France,
because there is more food there; but
at heart they remain German.’ ...
That is tragic for the French, who
must admit that the population turn-”
ed to them out of purely material con-*
siderations; it is tragic for the Saar-
laenders, who desert Germany for the
fleshpots; and tragic for us Germans,
because we were unable to hold on to
our brothers.

“There is only one hopeful aspect.
It was pointed out by a woman
politican, Angelica Braun ... that she
regarded the (economic) union of the
Saar with France as the first step
towards a United States of Europe.
Only if she proves to be right can
the decision be welcomed. In any
other case we as Germans must regret
it deeply.”

Truman Aid Action

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) said President Truman started
his action of help for Europe “with
a use of personalities, means of in-
formation and moral effects that
would have done justice to intro-
duction of a ‘holy war.’ It continued:

“Nevertheless, Truman did not need
to win the Americans for the idea of
his action—only for the urgency of
it and methods to be used... . His
tactical approach is well thought out:
He has enlisted the private initiative
of the Americans. This nation——
men, women, and _ children——is

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
quite privately going to get the Mar-
shall Plan under way...

“The President knows, of course, as
well as his Secretary of State that
the aid now started is no more than
a hint at the efforts the United States
will have to undertake to make the
Marshall Plan successful . . . In ans-
wer to the Russian argument that
the United States is using its food-
stuffs as a political weapon one
would have to ask if Moscow ever
has granted aid in form of food to
countries that do not share its ideo-
logy . . . The democracies will be
able to recognize in the spontaneous
winter program of the American
people a sample of the Marshall
Plan.”

The Frankische Landeszeitung (Ans-
bach) declared that President Tru-
man's earnest words to the American
public as well as the many visits
to Germany by American Congress-
men and publicists are proof of the
serious consideration that is being
given to the German food problem
and asked:

“Is every German prepared to share
his food with a starving countryman?
So long as this question cannot be
answered with an honest affirmative,
no one has the right to overlook the
difficulties which American states-
men must overcome , . . They are
striving to get the American majority
to agree to plans for help which will
cost billions and mean personal xe-
strictions,

”Not all Americans regard it as
their duty to pay increased taxes to
raise the living standard of a people
whose ‘Fuehrer' declared war on
them, Those Germans . . . who re-
proach the entire American people
for that are rendering the German
people the same disservice as for-
merly when they insisted that guns
were more important than butter.”

Spiritual Power

The Siidost-Kurier (Bad Reichen-
hall) declared that the recent ex-
change of letters between President
Truman and Pope Pius XII means that
our century “cannot afford to ignore
the spiritual power which is the
moral backbone of a time turning to
Christianity.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

It also said: “For the first time the
Vatican departs from its hitherto
closely guarded neutrality and openly
takes the American side in the con-
flict between East and West ... This
means that it puts its entire moral
weight behind the only power that is
in a position to prevent the Sovietiz-
ing of Europe .. .This may make pos-
sible the return of Germany to the
West European family of nations...”

Ferrous Metal Output Up

The incentive provided by the
revised Plan for the Level of In-
dustry in the US/UK Zones, combined
with the stimulating effects of in-
creased coal deliveries, have resulted
in general increases in production of
ferrous metals in the US Zone, ac-
cording to the monthly industry an-
nouncement. of the Economics Di-
vision, OMGUS.

Pig iron production from six blast
furnaces totaled 28,508 tons during
September as compared with 26,704
tons in August, an increase of 6.7
percent.

This figure represents an

AN EMERGENCY shipment of 300,000 doses of cholera vaccine is loaded on &

all-time high since the beginning of
the occupation.

Rolling mill operations yielded a
record output of 17,957 tons of milled
products, as compared to 16,479 tons
in August, an increase of 8.8 percent.
The rise reflects better operational
efficiency of the plants and the end
of summer holiday shutdowns.

In spite of drastic power curtail-
ment because of the severe drought,
foundry production remained approxi-
mately at its August level. Total
output amounted to 14,323 tons as
against 14,501 tons in August. Steel
and malleable castings continued at
353 tons and 121 tons, respectively.

Ingot steel output during Septem-
ber declined to 20,636 tons from an
August total of 21,094 tons, due
mainly to the shutdown for relining
of a 30-ton open hearth furnace at
the Roechling-Buderus plant in Hesse.
Forgings, pressings and stampings
declined to 496 tons from 567 tons in
August. Iron ore production decreas-
ed from August's 97,480 tons to
82,870 tons, mainly due to partial
shutdown of the mines in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden.

plane at the Rhine-Main Airport for use in combatting an epidemic of the
disease in Egypt. Mary J. Breedon, airport traffic supervisor, and Otto Dobbeck
(right), a representative of the pharmaceutical products export division, Farb-
werke Hoechst, check the shipment. Hesse MG officials waived customary ex-
port procedure and drew up an export license in record time to speed the

vaccine on its way.

14

(PIO, OMGH)

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 18 ---
{Continued from Page 4)
Plants for Reparations

General Hays pointed out that the
186 plants from the US Occupied
Areas include 117 which have al-
ready been declared war plants and
advance deliveries. The 117 have
been 50 percent dismantled and ship-
ped. This leaves only 69 additional
plants on which removal is to be
started. Some of these, especially the
surplus industrial factories, are de-
scribed as “part plants” from which
only a specific portion of the equip-
ment, sometimes only a single piece
of machinery, is to be removed.

UESTIONS brought out at a press
‘@) conference held by General
Hays and Lawrence Wilkinson, di-
rector of the Economics Division,
OMGUS, included the possibility of
unemployment of the workers in the
designated plants, the possibility of
German resistance to the removal of
the plants, the length of time anti-
cipated for completion of the pro-
gram, and the effect of the announce-
ment of the list on the stop order
of March 1946 on new deliveries of
reparations.

To the unemployment
Mr. Wilkinson replied:
anticipate any unemployment. There
will be temporary adjustments ne-
cessary without a doubt but we will
require all the manpower available in
the US Zone in order to attain the
maximum output of those plants
which will remain .... We are making
arrangements for the shift of that
Jabor force to the other plants as
needed.”

Concerning the number involved in
the temporary adjustment, Mr. Wil-
kinson said, “Presumably all of the
workers in all of the plants (declared
for reparations) now operating will
be affected by it. But whether they
are affected beyond the point of
having to walk across the street aad
going to work in a neighboring
factory, or whether they will have to
find a new home and a new pro-
fession, it is much too soon to
evaluate.”

Asked to comment on the anti-
cipation of possible resistance, Gen-
eral Hays said. “We think this is a
very reasonable plan which should be

question,

27 OCTOBER 1947

“We don't -

accepted by the German people as a
just plan. We are going to make
every effort to explain the entire
situation to them.... Beyond at-
tempting to gain their cooperation by
educational means and explanations,
I am not willing to state what steps
we would take if we had resistance,
except that I assure you that the
plan will go through.”

In his subsequent radio broadcast,
General Hays declared: “The list of
reparations plants is very much
smaller than anyone outside of
Military Government anticipated. We
do not expect any trouble. The
German people must recognize that
they have a titanic job to do in re-
constructing their national economy.
The sooner the reparations program is
completed, the better off they will
be.”

A correspondent at the press con-
ference recalled that delivery of rep-
arations, in addition to those
already declared for advance deli-
veries, had been suspended in March
1946 until economic unity of Ger-
many had been obtained. To this,
Mr. Wilkinson replied, “The stop
order is no longer applicable. It
refers to the old level of industry.”

ENERAL HAYS estimated that

about 95 percent of the plants
on the new reparations list of the US
Zone have already been inventoried
and the remaining five percent would
be by 15 November. He could not
estimate how long it would be
before the removal of the plants has
been completed “because it has to
go through the machinery of quadri-
partite procedure with the allocation.”

The procedure now is for the Allied
Control Council to have the list of
Plants available for reparations
delegated to one of its directors for
evaluation and allocation. Upon
quadripartite agreement of this, 25
percent of the total is allocated to
Soviet Russia which provides a share
to Poland, and the other 75 percent
to the Inter-Allied Reparations
Agency which makes the distribution
among the other 18 Allied nations.
After completion of the allocating
procedure, the work of dismantling,
packing, and shipping begins.

An example of the actual distri-
bution under this arrangement was

15

given in the latest Semi-Monthly
Military Government Report for the
two weeks ending 9 October. More
than 5,950 short tons of reparations
equipment were dispatched to 11
nations from 17 plants in the US
Zone,

Initial shipments were made to
Albania from the Fabrik Hessisch
Lichtenau at Fuerstenhagen-Kassel,
Hesse; to France from the Deutsche
Sprengchemie at Kraiburg, Bavaria;
to Czechoslovakia from the Heeres-
munitionsanstalt | Wildflecken et
Brueckenau, Bavaria; to New Zealand
from the Dornier Werke at Aubing,
Bavaria; to India from the Messer-
schmitt plant at Eschenlobe, Bavaria;
and to Yugoslavia from the Henschel
Flugmotorenwerke at Ziegenhain,
Hesse. Final shipments were made to
Norway from the Pulverfabrik Has-
loch, Hesse, and to Luxembourg from
the Kollis Metallwerke GmbH at
Noerdlingen, Bavaria. Previous re-
ports told of shipments to the Soviet
Union.

'N HIS RADIO broadcast over the

German network in the US Zone,
Mr. Wilkinson declared, “The uncer-
tanties and fears which have sur-
rounded this problem for the last two
years are now swept away. German
industry and German labor in the
bizonal area now know that they
will have the means, with hard and
intelligent work, to make their
country self-supporting and to regain
a decent standard of living... It will
require hard work, determination,
and self-sacrifice on the part of all
Germans to build a successful new

life Military Government is
providing food, money, materials,
and technical assistance. But the

final result will be determined by
the willingness of Germans to make
the joint effort upon which success
depends.”

Lt. Gen. Sir Brian Robertson,
British Deputy Military Governor,
also went on the radio “to talk
directly and frankly to the German
people in the British Zone.” Speaking
in German, he stated the following
“certain facts, plain and unmistakable
facts:”

“The first fact is that there is an
industrial capacity in the British

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Zone in excess of that which is
necessary for the peacetime economy,
and in excess of that which can be
used during the next six years at
least.

“The second fact is that Germany
during the war did great injury to
the industry of many other countries.

“The third fact is that the Allies
are unanimous in their determination
that the industrial war potential of
Germany must be reduced and that
simultaneously Germany should make
some contribution for the damage
which she has caused by providing
reparations from her surplus in-
dustrial capacity.

“The fourth fact is that the
American and British authorities have
established a new plan for the level
of industry in their combined zones
and that this plan will place no
serious brake on the economic re-
covery of those zones within the limit
of the probable availability of food
and raw materials for some years.

“The fifth fact is that the American
and British authorities intend io
carry this plan out.

“The sixth and last is that the
economy of the combined zones can
only be revived by the provision of
help from American and Great
Britain, and by means of cooperation
between the American and British
administration on the one hand and
the German people on the other. If,
instead of cooperation, there is
conflict, any hope of reviving the
German economy will disappear.”

In conclusion, General Robertson
said, “Germany today stands in debt
to the nations whose industries she
despoiled in the war. The people of
the UK and US Zones are now given
an opportunity to settle part of that
debt on generous terms. If they
discharge that debt willingly and
promptly, they gain immensely in
dignity and respect among the comity
of nations.”

Of the 496 plants listed for rep-
arations in the British Zone, 251 had
already been allocated as war plants
or as advance deliveries. The war
plants totaled 198, and the remaining
surplus industrial plants included:
ferrous metals, 87; non-ferrous metals,
6; chemicals, 24; mechanical engineer-
ing, 175; electrical engineering, 4/
shipbuilding 2.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

DISMANTLING an 80-ton boring mill at the Fritz Mueller plant, near Stuttgart.

Feeding of Internees

Provisions of Section 3, Public
Law 239 of the 80th Congress, approv-
ed 25 July 1947 were cited in EUCOM
cable SC—22644 of 14 October:

“In the interpretation of the follow-
ing statutory provisions, the date
when this joint resolution becomes
effective shall be deemed to be the
date of the termination of any state
of war hereto before declared by the
Congress and of the national emer-
gencies proclaimed by the President
on September 8, 1939 and on May 27,
1941...

“All offenses committed on or after
25 July 1947, in violation of said Ar-

OMGUS Rear Echelon

OMGUS Rear Echelon at Frankfurt
was deactivated by EUCOM General
Order No. 115, dated 10 October.
Headquarters Command, EUCOM,
assumed all administrative and supply
functions formerly performed by
OMGUS Rear.

16

ticles of War, are peacetime offenses
and punished accordingly. Executive
Orders No. 9683 and 9772 of 19 Janu-
ary and 24 August 1946 respectively,
are not affected by Public Law 239.”

New Law Cited

The feeding of civilian internees
under direct military control will be
a responsibility of Military Govern-
ment beginning 1 November 1947,
according to cable V—23833 citing
an agreement between OMGUS and
EUCOM. It continued:

“The ration will be supplied from
German indigenous sources and/or
food supplies imported for German
civilians and will be the same as that
provided civilian internees under the
control of German authorities and in
accordance with OMGUS_ cablé
CC—4868, dated 4 October 1946. This
ration provides 700 calories daily for
normal consumer with additional
supplements for workers, persons
under medical care, and the aged.”

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 20 ---
List of Reparations Plants from US Zone

The following are taken from the
official list of 186 war and surplus
plants in the US Zone declared for
reparations under the recent announce-
ment by the US and British Military
Governors. The asterisk (*) preceding
a name designates that the plant had
already been allocated for reparations
by the Allied Control Authority. Other
special explanations are given under
“footnotes” at the end of the list.

LAND BAVARIA
WAR PLANTS

*Dornier-Werke, Inzoll, plant, airplane fuse-
lages.

*Franziskanerkeller,
fuselages.

*Mechanical Workshops Ludwig Reith, Gross-
weil, plant, airplane fuselages.

*Oberlandhalle Miesbach, Miesbach,
airplane fuselages.

‘Bachmann v. Blumenthal Behm & Co., Aschaf-
fenburg, plant, aircraft .parts.

*Press-, Stanz- u. Ziehwerk Ru. Chillingworth,

Munich, plant, airplane

plant,

Nuremberg, plant, pressed parts and
stampings.
*"Noris” Zuendlicit AG, Nuremberg, Feld-

gasse, Tucherkeller, plant, ignition equip-
ment and small generators.

*Kelheimer Parkettfabrik AG, Kelheim, plant,
airplane fuselages.

*Reichsautobahn-Strassenmeisterei,
plant, airplanes.

*Weilheimer Holzhaus- und Barackenbau, Weil-
heim, plant, airplane fuselages.
Dornier-Werke GmbH Hodchlandhalle,
heim, plant, airplane fuselages.
*Maschinenfabrik A. Schlueter, Freising near
Munich, part plant, airplane fuselages,

wings, ‘accessories.

*Sperrholzfabrik Aug. Monalt, Bad Toelz, plant,
ditto.

*Hoerndl-Trailer
ditto.

“‘Dornier-Werke GmbH, Werk Weilheim, Weil-
heim, Kaltenmoser Str., plant, ditto.

“Messerschmitt GmbH, Flugzeugbau, Augsburg,
six plants, ditto.

“Messerschmitt GmbH, Regensburg, five plants,
ditto.

“Messerschmitt GmbH, Sinzing, plant ditto.

*Messerschmitt GmbH, Bodenwoehr, plant, ditto,

*Messerschmitt GmbH, Pfreimd, plant, ditto.

“Messerschmitt GmbH, Frontenhausen, plant,
ditto.

‘Messerschmitt GmbH, Marienthal, plant, ditto.

“Messerschmitt GmbH, Neustadt, plant, ditto.

*Messerschm‘:tt GmbH, Flossenburg, plant, ditto.

*Messerschmidt GinbH, Oberzell, plant, ditto.

*Messerschmitt AG, Oberammergau, plant, air-
craft.

“Messerschmidt AG, Straubing, plant, aircraft.

“Helmut Sachse, Kempten-Allgeau, plant, air-
craft.

*Messerschmitt, Augsburg, plant, aircraft parts.

“Messerschmitt, Garmisch, plant, aircraft testing
laboratory.

*Fabrik Kaufbeuren der GmbH zur Verwertung
chemischer Erzeugnisse, Kaufbeuren, plant,
smokeless powder.

‘Fabrik Aschau_ der
chemischer Erzeugnisse,
nitrocellulose.

“Fabrik Ebenhausen der GmbH zur Verwertung
chemischer Erzeugnisse, Ebenhausen near
Ingolstadt, plant, smokeless powder and
nitrocellulose.

“Wehrmacht Ordnance Plant, Heeresmunitions-

Siegsdorf,

Weil-

Factory, Etterschlag, plant,

GmbH zur Verwertung
Muehldorf, plant,

anstalt, Strasse near Guensburg, plant,
storage and filling of ammunition.
‘Deutsche Sprengchemie GmbH, Geretsried-

Wolfratshausen, plant, loading of shells.
“Wehrmacht Ordnance Plant, Heeresmunitions-
anstalt, Deschnig, plant, shell casings,

27 OCTOBER 1947

‘Fabrik Muenchen der GmbH zur Verwertung
chemischer Erzeugnisse, Munich-Aichach,
plant, armaments.

*Collis Metallwerke GmbH, Noerdlingen, plant,
shell cases.

*Atlas Werke AG Zweigwerk, Munich, plant,
under-water sound tools.

*Mikronwerk GmbH, Aschaffenburg,
precision parts and dies.

“‘Fruehwald & Jaeger, Eisen- und Presswerk,
Nuremberg, plant, sea mines and generators.

“Bayerische Motorenwerke (BMW) AG, Plant 1,
Munich, part plant, aircraft engines (note
surplus plant list).

“Bayerische Motorenwerke AG, Plant 2, Mu-
nich-Allach, plant, aircraft engines.

*Dornier-Werke, Oberpfaffenhofen, plant, air-
planes.

*Dornier-Werke, Aubing, plant, airplanes.

‘Dornier-Werke, Neuaubing, plant, airplanes.

*Dornier-Werke, Landsberg, plant, airplanes.

*Dampfsaegewerk, Grafenaschau, plant, air-
plane fuselages.

*Luftmunitionsanstalt Weichering, Weichering,
plant, loading of shells.

*Luftmunitionsanstalt Oberdachstetten, Ober-
dachstetten, plant, filling and assembling
of shells.

‘Fritz Sauer, Fabrik fuer Leucht- und Signal-
munition, Feuerwerkskoerper, Augsburg-
Gorsthofen, plant, war chemicals.

*Paraxol GmbH, Werk Welden, Welden, plant,
high explosives.

*Versuchswerk Kaufering der Sprengstoff-Ver-
suchs GmbH., Kaufering, plant, nitrocellu-

plant,

lose.

*Paraxol GmbH, Werk Schrobenhausen, Schro-
benhausen, plant, high explosives.

“Dynamit AG, vorm. Alfred Nobel & Co. Fabr.
Nuremberg, Nuremberg, plant, cartridge
cases,

Heeresmunitionsanstalt St. Georgen, St. Geor-
gen-Traunstein, plant, loading ‘of poison
gas shells and m‘nes.

‘Messerschmitt GmbH, Eschenlohe, plant, air-
plane _fuselages.

‘Fabrik Wolfratshausen der GmbH zur Ver-
wertung chemischer Erzeugnisse, Wolfrats-
hausen, plant, explosives.

‘Fabrik Bobingen der GmbH zur Verwertung
chemischer Erzeugnisse, Bobingen, plant,
explosives.

“Deutsche Sprengchemie GmbH, Werk Kraiburg,
Kraiburg, plant, smokeless powder.

“Dynamit AG, vorm. Alfred Nobel & Co.
Werk Kaufering, Kaufering near Landsberg,
plant, ammunition,

“Dynamit AG, vorm. Alfred Nobel & Co., Sta-
deln, plant, paper- and metal cases guns.

*Heeresmunitionsanstalt, Wildflecken, Bruecke-
nau, plant, loading of shells.

*Heeresmunitionsanstalt, Klein-Koet,
loading of shells.

SURPLUS INDUSTRIAL PLANTS

Non-Ferrous Metals Semi-Fabricating
and Casting Plants

Heinrich Diehl, Plant No. 3, Rothenbach, plant,
aluminum and copper fabrications.

Wieland Werke AG, Ulm-Voebringen, part
plant, aluminum, copper, zinc fabrications,

Anorgana, Gendorf, three part plants, chlorine,
caustic soda, acetaldehyde, glycol.

Dr. Alexander Wacker, Burghausen, two part
plants, plastics, solvents,

1.G. Farben, Gersthofen, part plant, wax.

Kopp & Co., Munich, plant, soap products.

Chem, Werke v. Transche & Co., Gersthofen,
plant, hydrazine hydrate.

Vereinigte Flusspatwerke, Stulln, five part
plants, hydroflueric acid, sodium fluoride,
synthetic cryolite, potassium bifluoride,
sodium fluoro silicate,

Electrochemische Werke, Munich, part plant,
hydrogen peroxide.

Heavy and Light Engineering

Geiseler, Munich, plant, machine tool acces-
sories.

Leistriy; Mafa, Nuremberg, plant, prime movers,

“*Kugelfischer, Schweinfurt, plant, ball bearings.

17

plant,

M.A.N., Augsburg, part plant, prime movers.

Maschinenfabrik Beilhack, Rosenheim, plant,
material handling equipment.

Maurer, Munich, plant, boilers & accessories.

Ernst Reime, Nuremberg, plant, machine tool
accessories,

Johann Schiesser, Nuremberg, plant, chemical
equipment, construction and material proc-
essing equipment.

Suedwerke, Bamberg, plant, trucks.

Schmidt & Sohn, Nuremberg, plant, material
handling equipment.

Ultrapraezisionswerk, Aschaffenburg,
machine tool accessories.

‘Bayerische Motorenwerke, Munich, part plant,
passenger autos, motorcycles.

Herkules-Werke GmbH, Nuremberg, part plant,
motorcycles,

Power Plants

*Anorgana GmbH, Gendorf, plant, electrical
power plant.

“Toeging, Toeging near Muehldorf, part plant,
power plant.

LAND HESSE

WAR PLANTS

"Fabrik Hessisch Lichtenau, Betrieb Eschen-
struth, Eschenstruth, plant, dies.

‘Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Kassel-Alte-
bauna, plant, airplane engines.

*Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Ziegenhain,
plant, ditto.

*Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Holzhausen,
plant, ditto.

plant,

‘Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Waldeck,
plant, ditto.
“Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Hersfeld,

pant, ditto.

‘Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Melsungen,
plant, ditto.

*Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Wege, plant,
ditto.

‘Henschel Flugmotorenbau GmbH, Remsfeld,
plant, ditto.

“Junkers Flugzeug- und Motorenbau AG Werk
Kassel, Kassel-Bettenhausen, plant, ditto.
*Junkers Flugzeug- und Motorenbau AG, Ziegen-

hain, plant, ditto.

“Junkers Flugzeug- und Motorenbau AG Werk II,
Veckershagen, plant, ditto.

*Gerhard Fieseler Werke GmbH, Kassel-Betten-
hausen, plant, aircraft.

“Gerhard Fieseler Werke GmbH, Frankenberg,
plant, aircraft.

‘Gerhard Fieseler Werke GmbH,
plant, aircraft.

"Gerhard Fieseler Werke GmbH, Lohfelden,
plant, aircraft,

"Gerhard Fieseler Werke GmbH, Moenchedorf,
plant, aircraft.

*Gerhard Fieseler Werke GmbH, Wigenhausen,
plant, aircratt.

*Continental Metall AG, Oberursel, plant, air-
craft parts.

*Continental Metall AG, Heddernheim, plant,
aircraft parts.

*Continental Metall AG, Gross-Auheim, plant,
aircraft parts.

‘Fabrik Hessische Lichtenau, Fuerstenhagen-
Kassel, plant, military explosives.

*Pulverfabrik Hasloch GmbH, Hasloch, plant,
smokeless powder.

‘Fabrik Allendorf der GmbH zur Verwertung
chemischer Erzeugnisse, Allendorf, plant,
organic and war chemicals.

*Paraxol GmbH Werk Lippoldsberg, Lippolds-
berg, plant, high explosives,

“Continental Metallwerke AG, Langenaubach,
plant, hubs for aircraft propellers.

‘Continental Metallwerke AG, Graevenwies-
bach, hubs for aircraft propellers, trans-
missions, and generators.

SURPLUS INDUSTRIAL PLANTS

Steel Producing Plants

Haas & Sohn, Sinn, part plant, one two-ton
converter.

Fraenkische Eisenwerke, Niederscheld, part
plant, one two-ton converter.

Eschwege,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Roechling-Buderus, Weblar,
20-ton electric furnace.

Non-Ferrous Metals Producing Plants

Kurhessischer Schieferbergbau, Sontra, part
plant, smelting equipment.

Non-Ferrous Metals Semi-Fabricating

and Casting Plants

V.D.M. AG, Heddernheim, part plant, alu-
minum, copper, brass, magnesium products.

Chemicals

Kalle & Co. AG, Wiesbaden, part plant,
methyl, ethyl, cellusose type products.

Chem. Werke Kurt Albert, Wiesbaden, two
part plants, phenoplasts, artificial copals.

M. Kappus, Offenbach, plant, soap products.

1.G. Farben Hoechst, Hoechst, seven part plants,
uresin, polyvinyl acetate, carboresin, sul-
phur black, solvents, chlorinated solvents,
dinitrobenzene.

part plant, one

P.S. Mobs, Giessen/Lahn, two plants, soap
products.
Roehm & Haas, Darmstadt, part plant, soap

powder.

1G. Farben Sauerstoffwerke Griesheim, Gries-
heim, plant, industrial gases.

LG. Farben Sauerstoffwerke, Kassel-Mittelfeld,
plant, industrial gases.

Heavy and Light Engineering

*Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deug,
diesel engines.

Fr. Krupp, Geisenheim, plant, pneumatic equip-
ment,

Lavis H, Shoehne,
and accessories.

Maschinenfabrik Wiesbaden, Wiesbaden, plant,
material handling equipment, boilers and
accessories, chemical equipment.

Mueller & Wagner, Wallau, plant,
lurgical equipment.

Rheinhuette, Wiesbaden, plant, prime movers,
general engineering.

Schiele, Eschborn, plant, prime movers, pneu-
matic equipment.

Stoehr, Offenbach, plant,
equipment.

Adlerwerke vorm. Kleyer AG, Frankfurt, part
plant, passenger cars (1),

Dr.-Ing. Heymans, Auerbach near Darmstadt,
plant, fine mechanics.

Oberursel, plant,

Offenbach, plant, boilers

metal-

material handling

*Hensoldt-Werke, Herborn, plant optical
equipment.
LAND
WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN
WAR PLANTS

“Deutsche Waffen- und Munitionsfabriken AG,
Grotzingen, plant, motor- and machine gun
parts,

*Collis Metallwerke GmbH, Reichenbach-Aalen,
plant, shell casings.

*Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deuts AG, Werke Ulm,
Ulm a. D., part plant, submarine parts.

*W. & W. Schenk Leichtguss-Werke KG, Maul-
bronn, plant, machine and aircraft castings.

*Luftfahrigeraetebau Gebr. Haage, Stuttgart-
Vaihingen, plant, aircraft parts.

*Hans Klemm Flugzeugbau, Boeblingen, plant,
aircraft parts.

*Elma GmbH, Waiblingen, plant, aircraft parts.

"Gustav Genschow AG & Co., Durlach near
Karlsruhe, plant, ammunition.

‘Daimler-Benz AG, underground aircraft & truds

engine parts’ plant  (Goldfischh GmbH),
Neckarelz-Obrigheim a.N., plant, aircraft
engines.

SURPLUS INDUSTRIAL PLANTS

Steel Producing Plants
Dillingerhuette, Mannheim,
two-ton converter (2).

Non-Ferrous Metals Semi-Fabricating

and Casting Plants

Elektron GmbH, Bad Cannstatt, plant, magne-
sium castings.

Chemicals

Deutsche Pyrotechnische
plant, pyrotechnics.

Kramer & Flemmer,
products,

Saline Ludwigshall, Bad Wimpfen, three plants,
sodium fluoride, aluminum fluoride, syn-
thetic cryolite.

part plant, one

Fabrik, Cleeborn,

Heilbronn, plant, soap

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Heavy and Light Engineering

H. Frank GmbH, Mannheim-Birkenau, plant,
machine tool accessories, physical testing.

Fulmina-Werke (Pfeil), Mannheim, plant, met-
allurgical equipment.

Hommel-Werke, Mannheim,
tool accessories.

Kiefer Maschinenfabrik, Stuttgart, plant, pneu-
matic equipment and material processing.
Klein, Oberesslingen, plant, pneumatic equip-

ment,
Mahler, Esslingen, plant, chemical equipment,
Meissner & Wurst, Stuttgart, plant, pneumatic
equipment.
Ortlieb & Co., Esslingen, plant, machine tool
accessories and machine tools.
Rohleder Kesselschmiede, Stuttgart,
boilers and accessories.

Saeuferer & Co., Plochingen, plant, machine
tool accessories,

Fr. Schuler, Muehlacker, plant, machine tool
accessories. e

plant, machine

plant,

Stiefelmeyer, Esslingen, plant, machine tool
accessories,

Streicher, Bad Cannstatt, plant, boilers and
accessories.

Sueddeutsche Arguswerke, Karlsruhe, plant,
general engineering.

Sueddeutsche Praezisionswerke, Geislingen,
plant, machine tool accessories.

Gebrueder Wagner, Stuttgart, plant, boilers

and accessories,

Ad, Zaiser, Stuttgart, plant, material handling.

*Bohner & Koehle, Maschinenfabrik AG, Ess-
lingen, plant, machine tools.

‘Index Werke, Esslingen, plant, machine tools.

‘Fri Mueller, Esslingen, plant, machine tools,
hydr. pumps, material processing, food
processing, metallurgical equipment.

Schmidt & Schaudt (formerly Unger), Stuttgart,
plant, machine tools.

Vorrichtungsbau Hueller, Ludwigsburg, plant,
machine tools and machine tool accessories (3).

Motorenfabrik Wilhelm Gutbrod, Stuttgart-
Feuerbach, plant, trucks.

Kodac AG, Werk Einsingen, Einsingen, plant,
phototechnics,

Power Plants

*Grosskraftwerk Mannheim AG, Mannheim-
Neccarau, part plant, power plant only.

LAND BREMEN
WAR PLANTS

Focke-Wulf Flugzeugbau GmbH, Bremen, plant,
airplane fuselages.

“Weser’ Flugzeugbau GmbH, Werk Farge,
Bremen, plant, airplane parts.

Theodor Klatte, Huchting near Bremen, plant,
aircraft.

*Carl F. W. Borgward, Auto- und Motoren-
werke, Bremen, part plant, torpedos.

SURPLUS INDUSTRIAL PLANTS

Blast Furnace

*Norddeutsche Huette AG, Oslebhausen, plant.
coke, pig iron, nickel iron, cement, ferro
vanadium (4).

Power Plants

*Hastedt Steam Power Plant, Bremen, plant.

Shipbuilding
"Deutsche Schiffs- und Maschinenbauwerk,
‘Weser, plant, shipbuilding plant including

the steel making capacity declared surplus.

BERLIN DISTRICT
SURPLUS INDUSTRIAL PLANTS

Fri; Werner, Berlin, part plant, machine tools.

Footnotes

* Already allocated for reparations by the
Allied Control Authority.

(1) Equipment necessary for the production of
office equipment, bicycles and spare parts
for existing Adler motor vehicles is retained.

(2) Foundry in which steel making equipment
was installed during the war. Converter
available for reparations.

(8) Facilities for the manufacture of shoe
machinery are to be retained.

(4) Coke Ovens are being temporarily retained.

18

(Continued from Page 7)
Reforming Juvenile
Delinquents
of privileges are offered as incentives
to good conduct.

OME OF THE innovations in Ger-

man practice which have been
instituted at Laufen and Nieder-
schoenenfeld are slowly being adopt-
ed by other German prisons. Recently
Military Government encouraged Ger-
man welfare officials to undertake the
next step in improving the care of
offenders—probation. In a series of
informal conferences with the direc-
tor of the Augsburg prisons, German
welfare officials, and the mayor of
Augsburg, a Military Government
prison officer explained that it might
be cheaper for the German govern- ‘
ment, as well, as more beneficial to the
community and the prisoners, if select-
ed inmates were released before
expiration of their normal terms, and
permitted to live with their families
and work at their trades under the
occasional supervision of a trained
city welfare worker.

Should the prisoners violate the
terms of their probation, they may
be returned to the prison to com-
plete their sentence there. Should
they comply with all conditions,
however, upon completion of their
sentence they are already established
in the community and on the road to
leading a normal law-abiding life.

The period of supervision is an
intermediate stage and helps the pris-
Oner bridge the gap between impris-
onment and free society. This pro-
gram has received support and favor-
able comment from German officials.
Similar programs are under way in
Nuremberg and Bremen, and may
gradually be adopted throughout the
US Zone of Germany.

MG Prisons Branch has as its im-
mediate objective in encouraging
such prison reformsthe fuller protec-
tion of the occupation forces and
society as a whole from the depre-
dations of criminals. The long-range
objective, which it is hoped the Ger-
mans themselves will come to endorse,
is that the prison can serve the com-
munity best by assisting the prisoner
to eventually become a productive,
law-abiding citizen.

27 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 22 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 75, Notification of
Permanent Station Address, Hq
EUCOM, 28 August 1947. Rescinds
EUCOM Circular 21, 21 July 1947,
“Household Goods,” and gives sub-
stitution.

Change No. 2 Part 3, Political
Activities, OMGUS, 1 September 1947,
Supersedes Part 3, Change 1. (New
material in italics.)

Change No. 14 MGR _ 9-1145.12
through 9-1156, Public Safety OMGUS,

9 September 1947. Supersedes MGR_

9-1145.12 through 9-1156 in C-13, (New
material in italics.)

Change No. 26 MGR 23-1002, Mil-
itary Government Legislation Revised
Plan for Level of Industry US-UK
Zones of Germany, OMGUS, 29 Sep-
tember 1947, :

Change No. 3, Accounting for Lost,
Damaged or Destroyed Property, Hq
EUCOM, 30 September 1947. Gives
substitution for EUCOM-SOP 100,
paragraph 15b (3), 7 April 1947.

Training Memorandum No. 4 Am-
munition Training Allowances, Hq
EUCOM, 30 September 1947. Refers to
estimate of requirements for the
training year.

Change No.7 Part 4, Public Welfare,
OMGUS, 1 October 1947. Supersedes
Part 4, C-5. (New material in italics.)

Change No. 27 MGR_ 23-121.57,
MGR 23-121.58, MGR 23-301, MGR
23-306, Title 23 Military Government
Legislation, OMGUS, 1 October 1947.
This title refers to Allied Control
Authority Control Council Law No. 57
“Dissolution and Liquidation of In-
surance Companies Connected with
the German Labor Front;”” Law No. 58
“Supplement to Appendix to Control
Council Law No. 2 Providing for the
Termination and Liquidation of Nazi
Organizations;” Military Government-
Germany US Zone Proclamation No. 2.
This supersedes MGR 23-301 in
Change 1; and Proclamation No. 6
amending Proclamation No. 5—Eco-
nomic Council,

Officer Candidate Schools, AG 352
AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 1 October 1947.
Gives substitutions for paragraphs 4a,
4d and 9b, EUCOM letter, 20 June
1947,

27 OCTOBER 1947

Top Secret Control Procedures, AG
371.2 AGO, Hq EUCOM, 1 October
1947. Replaces USFET letter AG 371.2
GBI-AGO, of 12 August 1947,

European Command Tables of Allow-
ances, AG 400.34 GOT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 2 October 1947, Gives a list
for information and guidance.

Physical Examinations for Integra-
tion in Regular Army and Air Force,
MCH 210.12-PS, Hq EUCOM, 2 Oc-
tober 1947, Cites the location of the
nearest hospitals for final examination.

Weekly Directive No. 8, Hq
EUCOM, 3 October 1947. Includes
following: Sec I—Security of United
States Mails, AG 311.1 AGM, Sec II—
Procedure for Return of Military
Personnel to the Zone of Interior for
Rotation, Separation or Discharge,
and for Return of Dependents of Such
Personnel, AG 210.31 GPA. Sec VI,
Weekly Directive No. 6, Hq EUCOM,
19 September 1947, is amended by
deletion of paragraph 2b (2). Sec III—
Charges for Banking Services-Ameri-
can Express Co, Inc, AG 531 FIN.
Sec IV—Screening of Labor Service
Companies (Civilian Guard, Polish),
AG 370.093 GSP. Sec V—Meal
Tickets, AG 430.2 RYT. Refers to the
issuance of meal tickets, for dining
car to all enlisted persons on duty
travel. Sec VI—Exchange of Tour-
Recreation Center Quotas Between
USFA and EUCOM, AG 200.4 SSP.
Sec II, Weekly Directive No. 1,
EUCOM, 15 August 1947 is amended
by substitutions for paragraphs 2
and 3. Sec ViI—Return of Enlisted
Men Below the First Three Grades
and Civilian Employees Below Civilian
Group III with Their Pregnant Wives,
AG 220.31 GPA.

Sec VIII—Operational Status Report
of Technical Service Units, AG 319.1
GSP. Sec IX—Mail Routing Certificate,
Advance Notice, AG 311.1 AGO.
Sec X—Procurement of Volkswagen

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters,

19

Spare Parts, AG 451.01 GSP. Sec XI—
Boards of Officers, AG 334 FIN. Cites
instructions for reporting findings
and recommendations in complete
form with supporting documents.
Sec XII—Quarterly Inventory and
Report of Penalty Material, AG 311.1
AGM.

Operating Agencies and Assigned
EUCOM Code Numbers, AG 130 BFD-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 3 October 1947, As
of 1 September 1947 the code number
is 1036, APO 757, Agency, Fiscal
Liquidating Branch, D/BFD, EUCOM,
Mailing Address, Office of Deputy
Budget & Fiscal Director, EUCOM,
APO 757, US Army.

Fiscal Station Code, AG 130 BFD-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 3 October 1947.
Cites and additional Fiscal Station
No. as 00-152,

Supplementary Education and
Training of Officers, AG 353 GOT-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 3 October 1947.
Refers to the Training Circular 5
Course taught at the Constabulary
School at Sonthofen.

OMGUS Action on  Laenderrat
Request L 23-2a-e, AG 014.1 (SG),
OMGUS, 7 October 1947. Cites cable
teply 23579, 7 October 1947 regarding
L 23-2-a Draft Law on Certified Public
Accountants, Auditors, and Tax Ad-
visors; L 23-2b Supplementary Draft
Law to the Law Concerning Missing
Persons; L 23-2c Draft Law on Settle-
ment of Recurring Commitments in
Connection with Judical Execution
upon Immovable Property; L 23-2d
Draft Law Concerning Administration
of Associations of Persons; and L 23-2e
Draft Law Concerning Suspension of
Legal Consequences Contingent on
the Concept “End of War.”

Discontinuance of Statistical Form
MG/PS/10/F and MG/PS/4/A, AG 014.3
(IA), OMGUS, 8 October 1947.

. Changes No. 2, Corrected Copy of
Check and Search Operations in Unit-
ed Nations Displaced Persons’ As-
sembly Centers, Hq EUCOM, 8 Oc-
tober 1947, Cites changes in para-
graph II, USFET-SOP 81, 16 May 1946.

Circular No. 84, Hq EUCOM, 9 Oc-
tober 1947. Section I-Disposition of
Effects; Section II-Disposition of Re-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
cords; Section III-Enlistment and
Reenlistment in the Regular Army;
Section IV-Currency Regulations and
Section V-Reassignment of Officers.

Circular No. 85, EUCOM Motion
Picture Service 16 mm & 35 mm) Hq
EUCOM, 10 October 1947.

Weekly Directive No. 9, Hq EUCOM,
10 October 1947. Includes following:
Sec I-Training of Acting Post Chem-
‘ical Officers and Noncommissioned
Officers, AG 353 CML. Sec II-Military
Post and Sub-Post Strength and Quar-
ters Report (ECGPA-43), AG 319.1
GPA. Cites substitutions for EUCOM
letter, AG 320.2 GPA-AGO, 28 August
1947, Sec III-Printing of Greeting Cards,
AG 486.4 AGL. Prohibites the use of
Army paper stocks, etc., for the print-
ing of Christmas or similar cards.
Sec IV-Messages to Headquarters,
MTOUSA, AG 311.2. Cites for in-
formation and guidance “Numerous
messages addressed to this Head-
quarters, MTOUSA, have required
further transmission to CG TRUST
and Co AGRS/MZ. Request TRUST
and AGRS/MZ (no longer members of
this Command) be included in all
book and multiple addressee cables
for this Theater.” Sec V-Establishment
of EDCMR, AG 330.33 AGU. Cites in-
formation for computing EDCMR.
Sec VI-Army Ground Forces Pilot
Training, AG 353 GOT. Sec VII-Infor-
mation for Prospective Visitors to
Belgium, AG 200.4 GPA. Sec VIII-
Choice of Service for Individuals
Who Enlist or Reenlist in the Regular
Army for Three, Four, or Five-Year
Periods, AG 340 AGP-B. Sec IX-Prep-
aration of Morning Reports, AG
330.33 AGU. Sec X-Military Police on
Military Duty Trains, AG 322 PMG.
Gives substitutions for EUCOM letter
AG 322 PMG-AGO, 29 May 1947.
Sec XI-Ownership and Operation of
Privately Owned Aircraft in US Zone
of Germany, AG 452 GOT, Sec. XII-
EUCOM Automotive Maintenance In-
spections, AG 333 GSP. Cites sub-
stitution for EUCOM letter AG 333
GSP-AGO, 30 June 1947. Sec XIII-
Tables of Distribution, AG 311.2 AGO.
Sec XIV-Classification of Personnel,
AG 220.01x 210.01 AGU. Refers to
CIC MOS's. Sec XV-Holidays, AG 006
AGO. Cites Tuesday, 11 November
1947, Armistice Day, and Thursday,

27 November 1947, Thanksgiving Day
as the coming holidays. Sec XVI-
Payment of Military Payment Certi-
ficates to Personnel in Labor Service
Companies (Civilian), AG 248 GSP.
Cites substitution for EUCOM letter
AG 248 GDS-AGO, 25 March 1947.
Sec XVII-Administration of Military
Justice, AG 250.4 JAG. Cites the Sec-
retary of War (now the Secretary of
the Army) 20 August 1947 letter.
Sec XVIII-Home Instruction Courses
For Pupils In Isolated Communities,
AG 352 GPA. Sec XIX-Discontinuance
of 7756 War Crimes Investigation
Team, AG 322 GOT.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests D 40-1 and D 40-2, AG 014.1
(SG), OMGUS, 13 October 1947. Cites
substitution for D 40-1 “Amendment
of MGR 13-120 and 13-121 and for
D 40-2 “Scholarships to German Unt-
versity Teachers and Diplomlandwirte
for Study in USA (Cable No 23761,
11 October 1947)” it advises that the
program requested is already un-
derway.

Advance Copy of Change 3 to
Title 5, Legal and Penal Administra-
tion, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 13 Oc-
tober 1947,

Advance Copy of Change 3 to
Title 3, Political Activities, AG 010.6
(CA), OMGUS, 14 October 1947. Part 7,
Title 3, Political Activities, is super-
seded by Part 7 Elections.

Downgrading of JCS and CCS Pa-
pers, AG 380.01 (AG), OMGUS,
14 October 1947.

(Continued from Page 2)
Review

in the US Zone declined in Septem-
ber by 37 percent below the preced-
ing month and 50 percent below Sep-
tember 1946,

Industry — A new radio set manu-
facturing plant opened in Wetzlar,
Hesse, making 250 sets in the first
month ... The US Navy agreed to
telease 20 operating floating docks to
the Germany economy ... The ex-
port of lumber from the US Zone to
Great Britain failed by 35 percent to
meet the quota set for September
because of the drought.

Interzonal Trade — The French Mil-
itary Government has tentatively
agreed to deliver to the bizonal area
a minimum of 120,000 camera shut-
ters and 90,000 lenses during the
coming year. In return, the French
Zone will receive an equivalent value
of cameras and optical raw glass.

Communications — A target date of
1 December has been approved on a
quadripartite basis for the inaugura-
tion of international telegraph service
among all occupied zones of Germany
and all countries of the world except
Spain and Japan and their dependen-
cies. The German Administrative De-
partment for Posts and Telecommuni-
cations (US-UK Zones) is construct-
ing and international radio station at
Frankfurt to provide overseas service.

Publications — Among recent new
periodicals were a medical journal
and a bulletin for teachers ....A
total of 160 new book titles has been
issued by the 334 US-licensed German
publishers,

Radio — News and press review
broadcasts dealt extensively with the
campaign in the United States for
effective food and financial aid to
Europe. Equally stressed were the
US Military Government's explana-
tions of US-British dismantling policy
under the new level of industry
plan... . With the installation of a
new transmitter, US Military Govern-
ment began broadcasting the pro-
grams of Radio Stuttgart over short
wave.

Film — The American feature film
“Our Vines have Tender Grapes,”
as well as two documentary films by
the Motion Picture Export As-
sociation, “Panama” and “California
Boomtown,” have been synchronized
with German-language tracks.

Education — Radio Munich begana
regular series of school broadcasts
with the reopening of schools... .
In Frankfurt, the commercial voca-
tional school, changing its name to
high school for economy, has in-
creased its course from two to three
years to prepare students for college
«... The first correspondence school
in the US Zone was established in
Hesse under sponsorship of all Hes-
sian labor unions,

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF