--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 119 / 17 NOVEMBER 1947

———
BREMEN INDUSTRIES

é

array a

AS
Al N@

YT ™/~ Ani

i oe

an

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

COVER PICTURE

BREMEN INDUSTRIES — Vessels are shown
being repaired on a slipway at Bremen, An

article on the postwar revival of industries
in Bremen appears in this issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

The article mentioned above, Bremen
Industries, was written by Harry A. Jacobs TABLE OF CONTENTS
after he made a study of key plants inLand
Bremen, where he is on duty as a Military
Government trainee. He also supplied the Issue No. 119 17 November 1947
pictures which accompany the article, as
well asthe cover photo. Mr. Jacobs,a grad-

wate of the Georgetown University School Policy on Public Information 2
ef Foreign Service, fought in Europe with Bremen Industries a
the 4th Armored Division during the war. “i
Decartelization 6
Phillips Hawkins, who wrote Decarteliza-
tion, was chief of the Decartelization Branch, Outlook for Winter Described . 9
Economics Division, OMGUS, woe his re- Data on Potsdam Germany ........... 10
cent appointment as Deputy Director of the it
Economics Division. A patent attorney, he British Occupation Aims Explained . . .... . il
formerly held posts with the Hercules Pow- ‘Gernad@heactions? 405.0 ve vec fe hou lg geet eag
der Co., of Wilmington, Del., and the Rubber nab
“ Oiictalmeracuonss pen yest ce ate ew we ek
eserve Co.

Lt. Gen. Sir Brian Robertson, new Military
Governor of the British Zone, has begun a
series of weekly radio talks to acquaint the
Germans with Britain's policies and purposes
in Germany, The text of his first talk appears
in this issue under the title British Occupa-
tion Aims Explained.

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
HAAR

Policy on Public Information

In addressing MG Public Information officers at the opening session of a two-day con-
ference in Berlin on 6-7 November, Gen. Lucius D. Clay, the Military Governor, made
the following statement of policy:

AM ONE of those people who has very decided views about Public Information....

First, except as it involves real security or matters under diplomatic negotiation, no
public agency has a right to hide or withhold any information. It is the responsibility of the
public agency which is serving the people of the United States to furnish material to ac-
credited press representatives on our activities — good, bad, and indifferent.

There are only two exceptions: where there is a real security danger and where the
matters are under diplomatic negotiation and it would be dangerous for the United States to
disclose its position until negotiations have been completed. That is the kind of policy
we have tried to operate on since the first day Military Government was set up. It is some-
times referred to as the “Goldfish Bowl" policy, and I guess that is about as good a
description as you can give it.

It, therefore, becomes a primary duty of the Public Information representative to see

“that information is made available to the public, and when it is being withheld it is your duty
to inform the person to whom you are responsible that you are not fully presenting the facts
to the public.

Second, the Public Information representative can frequently see that news and informa-
tion are interpreted correctly. Frequently statements given out by functional divisions
have factual information only and unless interpreted in the light of the picture it is
susceptible to misinterpretation.

The Public Information representative must have a complete and full knowledge of all that
is going on within his bailiwick, in which case he can either advise the functional division
that the information it is making available is capable of misinterpretation, or he can suggest,
himself, the correct and proper interpretation. He can only do that if his own interpreta-
tion is correct, and it can be correct only if he has a complete and full knowledge of what
is going on.

Finally, the Public Information representative has to have courage. It is frequently easier
not to give information out than it is to give it out. In case of doubt, give out the informa-
tion. Don't hold it back! We have nothing to gain by withholding information. Even our
own mistakes, if thrown back to us by our own press and publications, will in themselves
help us to do a better job.

I think that these reasons will explain why I personally attach so much importance to the
task of Public Information. To exercise it you have to have a more comprehensive
knowledge of Military Government, of what we are doing, and of US policy than any of
the representatives of the functional divisions.

I think that we have gained the respect of the press by the fact we have willingly
placed the facts on the table whether they are good to us or whether they hurt us. Very
obviously if we have gained that respect, it was from the work you people have done. I
would like to thank you for it and to ask you to continue to the very best of your ability and
to remember always that you will never be criticized by me for giving out facts whether
they are good, bad, or otherwise....

SHA

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 17 NOVEMBER 1947

--- Page 6 ---
By Harry A. Jacobs

EY INDUSTRIES in Land Bremen
K are showing remarkable econo-
mic recovery in spite of the lack of
raw materials, shortage of labor, and
uncertainty of power supply. A study
of Bremen’s nine foremost industrial
plants reveals that their output in-
creased 85 percent during the last
year.

These nine plants had produced
RM 216 million worth of goods and
services in 1936. During the first 12
months following the end of hostilities
their production dropped to a low of
RM 34 million, but during the period
between 1 October 1946 and 30 Sep-
tember 1947, it rose to RM 63 million.

It is interesting to observe the
pattern of their renewed activity. In
almost every instance, although the
firm's prewar lines are still being
manufactured, something new has
been added.

The Francke Werke A.G. is pro-
ducing equipment for public utility
plants such as gas, electricity, and
water works, and items like oil storage
tanks, fuel pumps, and oxygen. While
its present public utility output is
less than before the war, its manu-
facture of oxygen is considerably
larger. Because of the great need for
oxygen in industrial establishments
and hospitals, and the availability of
Taw material, the company's plant is
working on a 24-hour schedule to
produce oxygen at an annual rate
of 305,000 cubic meters.

Prior to World War II the Francke
Werke exported almost 70 percent of
its total dutput. The firm built public
utility plants for cities in Germany
and many other European countries,
and vegetable oil producing plants

17 NOVEMBER 1947

EE

for India. Although the company is
unable at present to resume its export
trade on a large scale, it has received
many inquires from abroad concern-
ing possible future deliveries.

The Francke Werke is participating
in the bizonal locomotive repair pro-
gram, since its repair shops are suitable
for making complete general overhauls.
It is contributing to the restoration
of the Bremen port facilities, having
repaired 60 three-ton cranes on Bre-
men's docks. The firm has developed

3

A CRANE picks up a boiler at the
Francke Werke A.G., Bremen.

a self-propelled peat digger, which
has been utilized to increase the
production of peat, a substitute for
coal, on the moors around the Bremen
Enclave.

NE OF THE best known German
tobacco manufacturing enter-
prises, the Martin Brinkmann com-
pany, is situated in Bremen. During
the war 50 percent of its production

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
facilities were damaged in air raids.
By employing an aggressive program
the company has been able to repair
90 percent of its damaged buildings.

On the basis of its raw tobacco
allocation the Brinkmann Company
manufactured 300 million cigarettes
and 500,000 kilograms of tobacco dur-
ing the past 12 months, This repre-
sents only 10 percent of its total
capacity. The critical tobacco shortage
is the company's greatest concern.
By’ March 1948 all of the 1946 crop
will have been exhausted. The bulk
of the 1947 harvest will not be
available until the autumn of 1948.
But by an accelerated process of fer-
mentation, it may be possible to use
a part of the early 1947 crop as a
stop-gap measure.

Among its better known brands
there are “Lux” and “Basra” cigarettes,
“Brinkmann's Auslese” and the “Ca-
valla" tobacco mixtures. The “Lux”
is considered one of the best German-
made cigarettes on the market today.
It is made only from foreign tobacco,
including 25-percent Virginia, which
is obtained from a prewar reserve
stock, The “Basra” contains a mixture
of Italian, Hungarian, and German
tobacco. The occupation has had a
great effect on the appearance of the
cigarettes packages, and in place of
the prewar cardboard boxes, cigarettes
are sold in American-type packs con-
taining 20 cigarettes.

The Bremer Wollkaemmerei is the
largest wool scouring and combing
plant in Germany. Out of 1,700

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

combing machines in the Bizonal Area,
1,200 are in the Wollkaemmerei. This
is the key wool processing plant of
the western zones, supplying 70 to
80 percent of the total requirements.
Its present capacity is limited by the
labor shortage, and the need for
auxiliary material such as tampico
fibers, sisal, manila hemp, jute, and
olive oil. Twenty-five percent of the
current output is consumed by a
special wool processing program for
the United Kingdom. The remaining pro-
duction is used to meet indigenous
clothing requirements and industrial
needs like felting and driving belts.
An important by-product of wool-pro-
cessing is lanolin, which is removed
from the raw wool and sold to cos-
metic and pharmaceutical factories.

Since the Wollkaemmerei is locat-
ed on the Weser River, freighters
loaded with raw wool dock alongside
the factory. A conveyer system trans-
ports the wool directly into the ware-
houses,

FIRM UNIQUE in Germany is

Schlotterhose and Company in
the fishing center of Bremerhaven. It
concentrates on the manufacture of
all kinds of machinery required for
the utilization of fish waste. It pro-
duces fish meal processing appliances,
fish oil cooking plants, sterilization
machinery, whaling ovens, and cod-
liver oil plants. The latter plants are
either built for use in factories on
land, or for assembly aboard ships.

4

THE REBUILT Martin Brinkmann K.G.
tobacco-manufacturing plant.

Lately the company has branched out
by producing presses used in the
manufacture of insulin. A postwar
novelty is the adoption of the firm's
fish meal machinery by the spice in-
dustry for the production of bouillon
cubes with a fish meal base.

In peacetime, 80 to 90 percent of
the company's capacity was taken up
by export orders. Practically all
nations with fishing fleets purchased
this specialized type of machinery
from Schlotterhose and Company.
With the receipt of orders from the
United Kingdom and Scandinavian
countries, its export trade is slowly
reviving.

The Atlas Werke, 65 percent of
whose physical assets were destroyed
during the war, is engaged in several
fields of industrial production. Its
main components are the mechanical
engineering department, a shipbuild-
ing yard, a metal foundry, and an
electro-mechanical plant. In spite of
the lack of material and labor diffi-
culties this enterprise has produced
almost RM 5 million worth of machin-
ery and repair work during the past
12 months. This compares favorably
with RM 7 to 10 million worth of
business during a good peacetime
year. Before the war the company
specialized in building small freight-
ers, and expects to carry on again

17 NOVEMBER 1947

--- Page 8 ---
when material and labor becomes
more plentiful.

The Atlas Werke was the original
supplier of all the auxiliary machinery
for the steamships “Bremen” and the
“Europa.” Recently an order was
received from France for new pro-
pellors for the liner “Liberté,”
formerly the “Europa. The fishing
industry depends very heavily on this
company for all types of machinery.
Currently, trawlers are being equipped
with the “Echolot,” a depth-sounding
device used to locate schools of fish.
It is producing all kinds of winches
for the handling of fishing nets. One
department produces pumps used
aboard ship and in food-processing
industries. At present the coal mines
are the biggest customers for water
pumps.

Atlas’ electro-mechanical depart-
ment is a postwar development, whose
energy is directed to the production
of electro-medical devices such as
shock apparatus, cardiographs, and
hearings aids. Originally the com-
pany became interested in this parti-
cular field through experiments with
depth-sounding devices for ocean-going
vessels. The management is anxious
to expand its new electro-medical
division.

JHE LARGEST industrial enterprise

of Land Bremen is the Carl F. W.
Borgward automobile factory. Its
“Hansa” passenger cards, “Borgward”
trucks, and “Borgward” eletrical ware-
house cars are widely known through-
out Europe. At present the factory is
producing three-ton trucks at a rate
of 100 per month. These vehicles are
channeled to essential domestic users,
but at the recent Hanover Export Fair
the company made contracts for the
delivery of one-ton trucks with
Switzerland, Sweden, and the Nether-
lands. This has boosted the firm's
export sales from 5 percent to 50 per-
cent of its total output. The factory,
target of three air raids during the war
and 80 percent destroyed, is anxious
to get back to the production of
sedans and three-wheeled delivery
trucks.

THIS IS THE assembly room of the
Carl F. W. Borgward automobile
factory. The plant, 80. per cent
destroyed during the war, has been
rebuilt.

The Bremer Tauwerk Fabrik is one
of Germany's leading producers of
harvest binder twines, fishing net
cordage, tow-ropes, packaging twine,
and trawl lines. This firm alone is pre-
sently supplying the Bizonal Area
with approximately 20 percent of its
harvest binder twine requirements,
and also participates in the fishing net
program to the extent of supplying
35 percent of netting twine. Recently
the Tauwerk Fabrik was called upon
to produce transmission ropes for the
Ruhr coal mines,

All of the company’s binder twine
is made out of paper. At first this was
a wartime ersatz measure, but the
farmers have become accustomed to
it and actually prefer it to the higher
priced fiber twine.

Shortly before the war Tauwerk
Fabrik developed a whale catch line
inside of which was a highly charged
electric wire. The lines was shot at
whales and on contact killed them
instantly, The advantage of this device
is that the whale is not mangled, and
thus no meat is lost. Inquiries have
been received from foreign buyers for
postwar commercial use of this devel-

opment.
A new department of this firm is its
weaving shop, which produces

summer-type rugs made out of sisal
and manila fibers. There is a great
potential demand for this type of
floorcovering in many tropical coun-
tries.

HE LARGEST shipyard in the Land
Bremen, the Bremer Vulkan Werft,
is equipped to repair and construct
all types of ships with the exception
of liners. Since the shipyard was

damaged only to a small dregree, its
production facilities can be fully
utilized. The yard has an order for
constructing five 400-ton trawlers for
the Bizonal Area fishing fleet.

Another important activity of the
firm is the reconditioning of steam
and Diesel engines. It undertakes
emergency and ordinary repairs on
all types of ships. From October 1946
to October 1947 compensation received
for the repair of Allied craft amounted
to approximately $300,000. The com-
pany is also doing its part to keep the
dwindling inland waterways fleet in
operation by repairing and overhauling
barges, tugs, and other river craft. The
Vulkan Werft is participating in the
Enclave factory machinery recon-
ditioning program to get crippled
factories back into production.

The Norddeutsche Steingut Fabrik
at Bremen-Grohn is the largest wall
tile factory in the Western Zones.
Its product is urgently needed by
many hospitals, food processing
plants, slaughter houses, and fish-
packing plants, as well as by private
homes. Because two of its factories
are not yet in operation, the com-
pany is only manufacturing white
tiles. Up to a short time ago the firm
was occupied with a priority program
for US and British Army installation.

In peacetime this enterprise sold
more than 50 percent of its tiles
abroad, and the company has now
more export orders on hand than it
can fill. Just a few days ago $130,000
worth of contracts were signed with
buyers from the Netherlands and
Argentina. The Norddeutsche Stein-
gut Fabrik has had great difficulty
in obtaining clay, and because of this
and a labor shortage, the firm has had
to operate at only 20 percent of capac-
ity. Nevertheless this figure repre-
sents RM 1,200,000 for the past
12 months. Under the direction of the
Land Economics Administration the
Steingut Fabrik is also producing
dishes for householders in Land
Bremen.

--- Page 9 ---
By Phillips Hawkins

Deputy Director of Economics Division, OMGUS

ILITARY GOVERNMENT Law

No. 56 is directed in the US-Zone
at breaking the strangle hold which
cartels, combines, syndicates, trusts,
and other excessive concentrations of
economic power inflicted on the Ger-
man people. It endeavors, once and
for all, to smash these octopuses which
obstruct the upward surge of a healthy
economy for all and enchain the very
right to existence of the individual.

Of course, it is realized that Ger-
many is suffering from severe short-
ages of food, materials, machinery,
and transportation. But this is a tem-
porary condition which the German
people will overcome provided they
are not dragged down by totally
unnecessary burdens.

Law 56, recently promulgated in the
US Zone and similar to a companion
enactment in the British Zone, is
designed to remove one such utterly
unnecessary burden threatening to
impede the work of reconstruction.
And once the present temporary
shortages are overcome, the law can
become a lever whereby the German
people of the Bizonal Area can trans-
form their economy into one of
unhampered and unlimited production,
goods and services for all, and higher
living standards for every German,
whether businessman, worker, or
housewife.

Law 56 will open the possibility for
the small businessman — once the
present scarcities and bottlenecks are
out of the way — to establish an
enterprise anywhere he chooses, to
produce or sell whatever he wishes,
to sell to whomever he desires, to
charge less to the consumer if he sees
fit, free from the dictates of the
economic giants. It will not be per-
mitted for him to be driven to the
wall, discriminated against, dictated
to, and forced out of business
completely by the ruthless practices

AN AERIAL VIEW of the I. G. Far-
ben factory buildings at Hoechst.
(Signal Corps photo)

common to cartels, combines, syndi-
cates, and the like.

© THE MILLIONS of German

workers the law will mean more
and better jobs. By competition among
producers, more jobs will be created.
Better wages will also follow, hand in
hand with the higher profits brought
about through volume production and
a sound, healthy economy.

Every housewife will benefit by
lower prices. Where a number of firms
are competing against the other, if
the price of one is too high, or if the
housewife does not like the quality of
its products or the nature of its service,
she will go to its competitor and get
it at a lower price or in a more
favorable quality.

The idea is not new. Germans have
been fighting monopolies for genera-
tions — under the Kaiser; under

the Weimar Republic; in short, ever
since industry became the backbone
of the German economy. However, the
forces which the large-scale mono-
polies could muster were too strong
and too unscrupulous. Now the Ger-
man people have acquired this law,
an instrument which was actually
shaped by the experience which the
Americans gained in dealing with the
same problem in their own country.

USINESSMEN and __sibusinesses,

competing one against the other,
and supervised by legislation designed
to insure such continued competition,
exactly as Law 56 is intended to do
here in Germany, have given the
United States the highest standard of
living the world has ever seen.
Competition and freedom of oppor-
tunity have meant higher wages and
comforts that no other workers in the

--- Page 10 ---
world could afford as well as the
right to independence of action.

Under such a system of free enter-
prise and free competition in Ger-
many there will be greater produc-
tion, more utensils and conveniences
for the household, and lower prices
brought about through competition.

The gigantic cartels and combines
were so powerful in Germany, especial-
ly during the Nazi regime, that they
could disregard the interests of Ger-
many'’s housewives, producing guns
and tanks instead of household
utensils when they found it more
profitable. When monopoly or semi-
monopoly exists, there is no other
direction toward which housewives
can turn. This is not so with inde-
pendent competitive businesses, which
have to heed the millions of house-
wives’ voices under penalty of losing
their patronage and ultimately com-
mitting business suicide.

NN THE Soviet Zone they have what

they call Soviet Aktiengesellschaf-
ten. They comprise a type of organi-
zation that would be outlawed by
Law 56 if this law were extended to
that zone. They are huge concentra-
tions of industrial and commercial
enterprises controlled by the Soviet
Government.

Several months ago, General Draper
(Maj. Gen. William Draper, then
director of the Economics Division,
OMGUS) was quoted as saying that
Soviet state corporations held title
to 30 to 40 percent of German indus-
try in the Soviet Zone. Moreover, the
fact that a large part of their output
was being shipped to the USSR was
too well known to require further
mention.

These gigantic Soviet-controlled
trusts are, in a sense, compulsory
cartels with priorities on raw materials,
labor, and markets, and they possess
all the evils of any other monopoly
plus the fact that they are controlled
by, and working for, a foreign power.
Apparently they are representative of
life in a communist state, as both
the Soviet Government and _ the
Communist-dominated German Land
governments are, to say the least,
acquiescing in the arrangement.

These huge monopolies are driving
the independent German businessman
out of business —— driving him out

17 NOVEMBER 1947

of business at a time when Germany
has need for all the independent
initiative, evergy, and talent that she
can muster.

JOR GENERATIONS Germany has,

unfortunately, been the victim of
her own economic system. By a variety
of pressures and traditions dating back
to feudal times, she developed a
highly centralized system of trade and
industry. Under this system a handful
of tremendous combines in control of
the coal and iron in the Ruhr and
Rhineland virtually supplanted the
German people and the German
government in dictating policy not
only for their own industries but also
for German industry as a whole.

They became, in all but name, the
masters of Germany, dividing the
German economy into two separate
and unequal parts: (1) the organized
combines, trusts, and cartels with
power to determine and enforce the
rules under which they would buy
and sell; and (2) the great mass of
unorganized consumers, laborers,
farmers, and small businessmen,
having no control over policies, pric-
ing, production, or employment. The
clashes between these two opposing
interests — that is to say, the
exploiters and the exploited — have
been historic and tragic, climaxing in
the brutal crushing of the unorganized
businessmen and consumers under the
heel of the political and economic
dictatorship of the NSDAP.

Now that those Nazi excesses have
wreaked great injury to the German
economy and it is necessary to
rebuild and reconstruct anew, each
German may well ask whether the
rebuilding and reconstruction should

7

PART OF the I. G. Farben industries

at Hoechst. (Signal Corps photo)

be permitted to proceed along the
same old cartel lines, or if the Ger-
man should not insist that it be
established along new lines in a
pattern of freedom of opportunity and
freedom of enterprise for all. The
German people must choose.

‘ANY HAVE never stopped to
reason the matter through or
are uninformed or misinformed. For
example, a refugee, a plumber for-
merly of Rostock, approached distri-
butors in Bavaria asking for ceramics.
Hearing of his request, the manager
of a local trade association called
upon the members of his association
ordering them to refuse to furnish
materials. Why? Because as a new-
comer, this man might offer compe-
tition and so threaten to drive down
prices charged the average German.
Every time a German restricts
production, he restricts the number of
jobs, and that means fewer bathtubs,
fewer baby carriages, fewer household
necessities, and also means waiting
days, months, even years for badly
needed repairs. Law 56 recognizes the
utter unfairness which the present
state of affairs breeds and outlaws
vicious cartel practices as being
against the common welfare.

But in order to win through to such
ends, the Germans must realize
exactly the magnitude of the Franken-
steins they have reared among them.
Let me give a few examples.

Take the Phoubus S.A., the electric
lamp cartel to which practically all
the important manufacturers of elec-
tric light bulbs belonged, excepting

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
only the electric bulb manufacturers
of the United States. The member
manufacturers included Osram GmbH
of Germany, the subsidiary of AEG
and Siemens & Halske. Here is what
happened to prices. In the United
States, competition kept the prices for
25-watt, 40-watt, and 60-watt bulbs
down to 15 cents each. In Germany,
Osram's prices were from two to more
than three times the prices of US
bulbs, or, as expressed in terms of
US currency, 30 cents for a 25-watt
bulb, 36 cents for a 40-watt bulb, and
48 cents for a 60-watt bulb.

VERY TIME a German struck a

match, he contributed to the
profits of the German match monopoly.
This monopoly had, until recently,
complete control over sales, prices,
exports, and imports of match goods.
It could and did limit the number of
match producers.

And cartels exact a toll every time
a German put on his shoes or glasses,
cooked a meal, painted anything from
a chair to a house. Suppose he went
to the faucet to get a glass of water.
Let's see what happened. The water
was purified by chlorine — chlorine
was controlled by a cartel. The glass
contained certain arsenic compounds,
also controlled by a cartel. The glass
was shaped by a machine controlled
by a cartel.

The clothes a German wore, his
radio, false teeth, pots and pans,
soaps, paper, plastics were in some
measure affected by cartels, Let's
examine the point a bit further.

From coal he got heat, light,
power, synthetic rayons, pharmaceu-
ticals, buna rubber, asphalt, dyna-
mite. Yet knowing all this, knowing
that Germany's great chemical] indus-
try was founded on coal, knowing
that without coal there would be no
iron or steel, knowing. how  all-
important coal was, nevertheless, the
German people were seized in the
grip of nine gigantic combines, each
a virtual monopoly in its own right,
which had exercised life and death
control over Germany's coal resources.
These nine giants could set the
price of coal, say how much coal
was to be mined, and decide who
could or could not buy. coal.

The same situation existed, prac-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

tically, in iron and steel, while the
German chemical industry, to all
intents and purposes, was controlled
by I. G. Farben.

Thus the thousands of German busi-
nessmen who would have liked to
participate in these fields found
themselves utterly unable to cope
with these monsters and were ruth-
lessly pushed aside. A handful of
industrial giants were enabled to
seize upon the jugular vein of the
German people and, by applying
pressure at opportune occasions, to
control a great country’s life blood.

HE INDIVIDUAL has to know the
facts. Unless all know about the
evils which the law is designed to
correct and unless they realize that
every one must actively get behind
the law and assist in stamping out
violations, it will not accomplish for
the German people the degree of
benefit of which it is capable. Both
the German and US governmental
authorities are united in a common
desire to see that the law succeeds.
It is in every German's interest that
it should succeed. Thus all must be
vigilant to ascertain the violators
whoever and wherever they may be
and bring them before the bar of
public opinion. There are German
decartelization agencies in every
Land of the US Zone which are
anxious to cooperate in that respect,
which are anxious to insure that no
interests, economic or political, self-
ishly jeopardize the rights of all
Germans.

General Export License

A general license has been granted
for all transactions within the US
Zone which are necessary in connec-
tion with the export of property from
the zone to any country outside
Germany except Spain, Japan, and
their dependencies.

All foreign exchange proceeds
resulting from such transactions or
from any contracts which might be
made or entered into in connection
with such transactions will be paid to
US-UK Military Governments in Ger-
many. This license does not in itself
authorize the export of property from
the US Zone.

More Industrial Cuts
Made in Soviet Zone

“In spite of the already enormous
dismantlings in the eastern zone, its
industrial capacity still suffers further
deep cuts,” declared. Die Neue Zei-
tung, US-occupation newspaper. “In
addition to the comprehensive foreign
infiltration. through the Soviet AG's,
Russian economic organizations: pur-
chase great quantities of German pro-
perty.” : q E ‘

The paper pointed out that ‘in: ad+
dition to this, the reparation plan for
the first part of 1948 has been sent
to the Land governments in the Soviet
Zone. At the present time, it added,
power plants at Erfurt, Apolda, and
Bleicherode are being dismantled.

The paper said there is another
drive going on in the zone—alleg-
edly to save coal and electricity—
to coordinate plants. Under this plan
plants are being combined with each
other, labor is being combined, and
in order to maintain production one
plans to work three shifts. According
to the paper, experts state that the
fusions will not be complete but some
machines will be left over, these then
being liable to dismantling.

“In this respect one estimates the
loss in the textile industry at about
25 to 33 percent,” said the paper.

Soviet firms, it continued, are pre-
sently buying houses, factories, and
estates in Berlin and the eastern zone.
It said this is particularly evident in
Erfurt, Halle, and Leipzig. As an
example, the paper declared the
Meissen factory has been bought for
1,500,000 marks. It named other fac-
tories which have been bought.

“One has observed that there is a
tendency to keep all things secret
concerning Russian control over Ger-
man economy,” noted the paper. It
pointed out that Russian orders are
sent in full only to the economic min-
isters, while in the Soviet AG ad-
ministration German bookkeeping has
been almost completely abolished.
Certain firms which work for repara-
tions are not allowed to keep books,
it stated.

17 NOVEMBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
Laenderrat Informed
Of Manpower Policy

ONSIDERATION of the needs of

the German economy and full
protection of worker's rights will be
taken into account in any negotiations
looking to the recruitment of German
manpower for other European coun-
tries, OMGUS has assured the Laender-
rat. At the same time, OMGUS
stressed that it is the “final authority”
in matters pertaining to such nego-
tiations and intends to “retain free-
dom of action."

The OMGUS statement was made
in answer to a Laenderrat request for
information concerning agreements
for recruitment of German manpower
for foreign countries. The Laenderrat
further asked that future agreements
be concluded after competent German
agencies had been heard.

The OMGUS statement to the
Laenderrat said: “The utilization of
German manpower in Europe is part
of the broader tasks of its economic
recovery.

“In that broader task, Military
Government, being the final authority
in the US Zone of Germany on matters
pertaining to negotiations with foreign
countries, must retain freedom of
action as to time and place of nego-
tiations, and decision within its wider
interest.

“Decision will be made with com-
plete and sympathetic consideration
of the needs of the German economy
and with the guaranty of full protec-
tion of the worker's rights.

“Normally, German authorities will
be consulted regarding the recruit-
ment of German manpower for foreign
countries, and full consideration taken
of such advice, within the scope of
Military Government's objective."

Bank Deposits Rise

Deposits in banks in the US Zone
as of 31 July were RM 72,163 million,
an increase of approximately RM 853
million during the month. Most of
the increase represented demand de-
posits. Time | deposits increased
slightly, while savings deposits
dropped by about RM 27 million to
RM 22,375 million.

17 NOVEMBER 1947

Outlook for Winter Described

The economic situation confronting
the Germans for the coming winter
was described by Gen. Lucius D. Clay,
the Military Governor, in his speech
to the Laenderrat in Stuttgart, 4 No-
vember. The text of his speech
follows in part.

T IS IMPOSSIBLE to promise you

or for you to promise your people
that the coming winter will not be
a hard winter. There will still not
be enough of anything. On the other
hand, if we examine the approach of
this winter in comparison with the
approaches to the two previous win-
ters, the picture is not entirely a
dark one.

In the first place, your state gov-
ernment has improved and is now
functioning efficiently as a govern-
ment administration. More than forty
million Germans in the American and
British Zones are operating in an
economic unit under the control of
their own Economic Council, which,
if not representative of the people,
has at least been selected by those
who are representative of the people.
Administratively, you are infinitely
better able to cope with emergencies
than you have been at any time in
the last two years.

The situation with respect to food
is to the Combined Zones much more
promising than at this time last year.
Stocks on hand are larger and the
distribution machinery is much better
able to assure better distribution.
While the world food supply makes
it impossible to promise an increase
in the ration, there is every reason to
believe that the present ration can
be fully maintained.

Perhaps there are some compen-
sating features to the shortage in
world grain. As a result, the United
States and Great Britain are spending
larger sums of money to buy more
expensive foods which will probably
result in a better balanced diet within
the ration which you now have. For
instance, we have recently been able
to purchase several hundred thousand
tons of sugar, which I am sure will
be a welcome addition to the ration.

9

As we approach the winter,
the fuel situation looks somewhat
better. Some coal for domestic use
has been made available and is on
hand in the large cities and towns.
In fact, it would appear to be trans-
port, rather than coal, which is now
limiting our ability in moving and
using fuel. I think we should all
record our appreciation of the work
of the coal miners and of coal manage-
ment. During the last two weeks.
they have increased almost daily their
outpout of coal, which has now
reached 258,000 tons of coal per day
from the Ruhr, the largest figure that
has been reached since the beginning
of the occupation. Unfortunately, the
low water in the waterways has made
it extremely difficult to move coal as
we. had expected and has reduced
our hydroelectric capacity, which we
hope will be helped by early rains.

'N THE CLOTHING field you face

the winter with inventories greatly
depleted. However, approximately
50,000 tons of surplus Army clothing
is being made available from the
United States and this clothing is on
a deferred account basis to be paid
at an indefinite time in the future.
This clothing is now on its way to
Germany.

I say this because if you remain
steadfast through the winter, I am
sure that you will find that the
foundation has been laid for a rapid
economic recovery in the spring. As
is always necessary in an occupation,
there are certain destructive phases
which have had to be accomplished.

I, of course, do not expect you to
like the. dismantling of some. of your
plants. I think that on sober analysis
you will find that the number is small.
At any rate, you now know the plants.
which will be left in Germany and
you have this winter to see that they
are placed in shape so that, whem
spring comes they can be put into
full production; and,. meanwhile, the
dismantling can be. finished.

Also, there have been changes
Made in the administrative pro-
cedures in denazification which make
it possible for you to complete that

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 13 ---
‘task during the winter months. I
‘urge you to these accomplishments.
If dismantling and denazification can
be placed behind you, if the foun-
-dation is laid in the repair of plants
that remain in Germany, if you re-
main steadfast in your determination,
spring will find you with nothing but
a constructive job on your hands.

You will, finally, have an atmos-
‘phere in which democracy can grow
and in which the German people can
demonstrate their determination to
regain their place among the peoples
‘of the world. I cannot help but feel
and hope that in spite of the fact
that you face another hard winter,
it is a winter to be faced more
cheerfully and with more certainty
‘of your own future than at anytime
‘since surrender.

Parcel Post for PW’s

Inauguration of parcel post service
from all occupied areas of Germany
to German prisoners of war interned
in Czechoslovakia, effective 15 No-
vember, has been approved by the
Allied Control Authority. Parcels will
‘be limited to maximum of 2.2 pounds
in weight.

Contents will be restricted to com-
fort articles, such as non-perishable
food and clothing, and only one
parcel per month will be permitted
from one sender to one addressee.
‘Other than an invoice listing the
contents, prices, and number of
articles enclosed, no printed matter
or correspondence will be included.

Claimants Answered

In response to inquiries by the
Polish, Czechoslovak, and Yugoslav
military missions regarding pension
claims of repatriated United Nations
nationals, the Allied Control Author-
ity has replied that monies due to
such claimants will be paid upon
request and redeposited to their
credit in blocked accounts in German
banks or savings institutions.

The US Military Government has
accordingly instructed German author-
ities to make payment of social.
insurance claims to nationals of these
countries in this manner.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

| Data on Potsdam Germany |

A comprehensive document, en-
titled “Economic Data on Potsdam Ger-
many,” presents basic facts and
figures with respect to the present
German economy, viewed in the
perspective of both actual prewar and
contemplated postwar patterns. The
document was prepared by the
Economics Division, OMGUS, and
issued this month as a special report
of the Military Governor.

The data dealing with the economic
situation of all Germany as delineated
under the Potsdam Agreement were
from the most reliable and complete
sources available. Most of the sta-
tistics for prewar Germany were
obtained from official German public-
ations, The current statistics were
obtained from the Allied Control
Authority, the Military Governments
of the respective occupation zones,
and German agencies.

The figures with respect to post-
surrender Germany are, in general,
considerably less accurate than the
prewar data. The reestablishment of
German statistical agencies has been
a slow process in the face of difficult
physical conditions and the acute
shortage of trained personnel. Many
business concerns have also en-
countered difficulties in preparing
reports on their individual operations,
and many reporting errors, usuaily
inadvertent rather than deliberate,
have been discovered.

On the whole, however, these in-
accuracies are not of sufficient
magnitude to distort the general
picture, particularly insofar as the
US and British Zones are concerned.
Any consistent bias inherent in the
data has been in the direction of
slightly understating the current level
of industrial activity.

During the forthcoming weeks, the
Weekly Information Bulletin will
present a series of six articles cover-
ing the textual contents of this report.
Of the 51 tables, charts, and graphs
used in the report, only those of
outstanding general application will
be repeated in this series. Starting

10

with the next issue of the WIB, the
installments will be published as
follows:

1, Background: covering prewar
Germany, its division at the close
of the war, and comparison of the
zones of occupation.

2. Current Situation: dealing prin-
cipally with the over-all picture
for Germany since the Potsdam
Agreement. The situations in the
various zones will be taken up in
succeeding installments.

3. Bizonal Area: showing the
economical progress made since the
economic merger of the US and

British Zones at the beginning of 1947.

4, US and UK Zones: explaining the
situations in the two zones prin-
cipally prior to the merger.

5. Soviet Zone: giving a comprehen-
sive picture of the economic situation
in that zone as developed from the
latest available information.

6. (a) French Zone: giving a similar
account for this zone. (b) Other
Countries: comparing the situation in
Germany with that in other European
countries.

Translations of Plays

German translations of American
plays to be performed in Germany
and Austria will be published exclu-
sively by US Military Government
headquarters in Berlin. This was
decided at a conference of the US
Military Governments of the two
occupied countries at a conference
at Salzburg, Austria, in September.

American music made available to
both countries will be divided into
two groups, one featuring music by
native American composers and by
those naturalized US citizens whose
musical education and training have
been chiefly American, and the other
featuring music by composers who
also have become naturalized and
whose works tend to prove that life
in America is conducive to musical
authorship.

17 NOVEMBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
BRITISH OCCUPATION AIMS EXPLAINED

Gen. Robertson, as Military Governor, Begins Series of Talks
To Inform Germans of His Country’s Policies and Purposes

In his first broadcast to the German
people as the new Military Governor
of the British Zone, Lt. Gen. Sir Brian
Robertson, inaugurated a series of
weekly talks to inform the Germans
of British policies and purposes. He
succeeded Marshal of the Royal Air
Force, Sir Sholto Douglas, on 1 No-
vember as British Military Governor,
as well as commander-in-chief of the
British forces in Germany and British
member of the Allied Control] Coun-
cil. The text of his broadcast on
“Our Aims in Germany” follows:

'Y TALK tonight is the first of

a new series of talks which are
to be given every Saturday evening.
Their object is to inform you about
our policies and purposes here. In
these difficult days many things must
be obscure and puzzling to the or-
dinary German man and woman in
the British Zone. We want to do
what we can to remove these ob-
scurities and to tell you frankly not
only what we are doing but also why.

Whatever verdict history may pass
on the role played by Great Britain
in the occupation of Germany I trust
that it will say that we have been
consistent. When we first occupied
the country we set ourselves certain
aims to achieve. We are pursuing
these same aims today. I hope that
we shall continue to do so until they
are achieved and the last trainload
of British troops leaves Germany.

The pace at which we travel
towards our objectives varies accord-
ing to the success which we achieve
from time to time. The methods which
we employ are flexible in order that
account may be taken of changing
conditions, Our aims do not vary.

In the first place we have set for
ourselves the task of ensuring that
Germany shall not again embark upon
a war of aggression against other
nations, Secondly we have set out
to destroy Nazism. These may be
called our destructive aims. In large
measure they have been achieved
already. Germany is disarmed.

17 NOVEMBER 1947

The final decision has been taken
with regard to the reduction of her
war potential. This decision is em-
bodied in the new level of industry
plan which has been established by
agreement between ourselves and the
Americans for the Combined Zones.
In fulfillment of that decision a list
of factories has been published which
are to be dismantled and delivered
as reparations to countries which
suffered from German aggression
during the war.

I do not propose to discuss this
plan further today. I have already
given my views about it very clearly
and all that I will say now is that
it represents a final decision and a
settlement which is generous to Ger-
many.

'E REGARD NAZISM as an effec-

tive force in German affairs as
being dead, but I should hesitate to say
that the spirit and mentality which
prompted the creation of the Nazi
party exists no longer. However, so
far as we are concerned, matters have
entered the final phase.

We are now handing over re-
sponsibility for denazification to you,
that is to say, to your chosen repre-
sentatives in the Laender Govern-
ments. Hereafter our main interest
is to see that the whole process shall
be brought effectively, but speedily,
to an end. We shall also be strong
in discountenancing any action which
appears to be based upon vin-
dictiveness or personal spite.

So much for the destructive side
of our policy. On the constructive
side we aim to recreate a democratic
way of life in Germany, and we aim
to assist Germany to recover her
position as a self-respecting member
of the comity of peaceful nations. It
is always more difficult to build than
to destroy.

We are as yet a long way from
the achievement of our constructive
aims. I feel, however, that we have
now a better hope of making progress

11

towards them from the fact that from
now on we can focus our whole effort
upon them.

The important decisions of disarma-
ment, demilitarization, and denazifica-
tion have been taken. The sooner
those decisions are carried out in
full, the better because then we shall
all — British and Germans alike —
be able to think about nothing else
but building up.

OME PERSONS are apt to smile

when we say we wish to recreate
a democratic way of life in Germany.
It is surely a very ambitious wish.
The conditions for preaching democ-
racy are not entirely favorable. Yet
I am convinced that when our record
is written it will be found that our
work in this field has been more im-
portant and will be more lasting than
anything else which we do here.

I am not going to attempt to define
democracy for you. I will, however,
say that in our conception the fun-
damental condition for the existence
of democracy is that there should
be freedom. We want to see the
individual man and woman in Ger-
many free to think his own thoughts
and to express them, free to choose
his own rules, free to read the news-
papers which appeal to him, free
to move about his country without
let or hindrance, free to worship as
his own conscience dictates.

That is why we tolerate in the
British Zone many things which are
not normally tolerated by an occu-
pying power. Some things, indeed,
which are not tolerated in all the
zones of Germany even today. The
fact that our toleration is sometimes
abused does not distress us unduly
though it may compel us to correct
the abuse.

That democracy has gained in
strength during the past two and a
half years is evidenced by certain
positive achievements. A trade union
movement on truly democratic lines
has been reborn and is already a

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
powerful influence for good in our
zone. Governments run by chosen
representatives of the people are
functioning after 13 years of atrophy.
More liberal ideas have been injected
into the educational system.

Of course, much remains to be done.
I do not feel that we have yet con-
vinced the responsible German author-
ities of the rightness of our ideas
regarding the administration of the
police. It is our view that the police-
man should be the friend and the
servant of the people. It is in our
opinion extremely necessary to en-
sure that the police force shall not
again become a weapon in the hands
of an ambitious politician.

Again I do not think that we have
yet succeeded in obtaining acceptance
of our ideas regarding the essentially
non-political character of the civil
service. I know too many cases, quite
recent ones, where the efficient civil
servants have been victimized on
account of their political views. I
know of other cases where civil serv-
ants have taken quite an improper
part in political controversy.

In this connection I should like to
say that we never ask you Germans
to do things in the British way merely
because it is the British way. If we
ask you to adopt certain methods it
is because we sincerely believe that
they are good methods.

Before leaving this question I should
also like to say this. When I speak
of it being our aim to recreate democ-
racy in Germany, I do not wish to
give the impression that we think
that we can do this thing alone. We
can only do it with the cooperation
of the German people themselves and
in particular with their leaders: the
leaders of the political parties, trade
unions, and leaders in the educational
field.

'T HAS BEEN SAID that the: plant

of democracy cannot flourish in a
hungry land. I am not sure that such
a statement can be justified from
history, but I have in any case’ no
wish to dispute the urgent necessity
for - removing. from Germany the
threat of hunger.’ It is, of course,
true. that the. people of many nations
are. getting. much less to eat than
they want, but it is also true that

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

the situation in Germany is that they.
are getting less to eat than they need.

Our aims in the economic field can
be summarized very briefly by saying
that we want to see a revival of the
economy of the Combined Zones at
as rapid a rate and to as great an
extent as possible. This is not in-
consistent with the new Level of
Industry Plan because the level set
in that plan cannot in any case be
reached for some years to come.

To be more specific about our
economic aims, they are first and
foremost that the ration should be
maintained from now on at its present
level until it is possible to raise it,
and we wish to raise it to 1,800
calories a day for the ordinary con-
sumer just as quickly as the necessary
food can be made available. But food
is very scarce in the world today.
This is a fact which I am afraid some
of you occasionally overlook. You
are quite wrong if you think that we
could get more food for Germany if
we would only try.

Secondly, we aim to increase coal
production in the British Zone to
300,000 tons a day immediately and
to its. prewar level .as soon as
possible. We aim to, effect an imme-
diate improvement in the transport
situation. As regards industry, the
new plan is a clear objective and
shows the way in which we consider
that the export trade should be
built up.

An increase in exports is imme-
diately necessary in order to relieve
the burden of the taxpayers of Amer-
ica and Great Britain, but it is also
essential from the point of view of
the Germans. It cannot possibly be
in the interests of Germany that she
should continue to depend on charity.
Her self respect and independence
will be greatly enhanced when she
is no longer in this position. That is
a brief description of our economic
objectives.

EFORE LEAVING the subject I
should like to make the’ same
point which'I did a few minutes ago
when discussing the political question.
‘The economy of the country is in a
perilous condition at present. You
Germans cannot restore your economy
alone and unaided. We, the occupying

12

powers, cannot restore it for you; but
if you ‘and we work together we can
do this thing, and since our objective
is a common one there is every
reason why we should work together.

This country has been for so long
cut off from close contact with the
outside world that it would be excuse-
able if its people at times forgot that
Germany is an integral part of Europe
and that her problems cannot be con-
sidered in isolation from Europe as a
whole, indeed from the civilized world.
For this reason our aims in Germany
are fixed within the framework of our
aims in Europe. For example, we aim
to see a united Germany, not merely
because we believe that the Germans
will not be happy until they are united
as a country, but also because we
hold that the future stability of Europe
requires a united Germany.

Moreover, we aim to reach agree-
ment with our Allies over the German
problem because we do not feel that
peace in the future will be safe un-
less there is agreement on this most
vital of all problems. The contact
which we have with our Allies in
Berlin represents in itself a bridge
across which better understanding can
be reached. We attach great import-
ance to the maintenance of that
bridge.

In conclusion I will say.that we
believe that our aims in Germany can
best be. achieved by transferring to
German shoulders an increasing re-
sponsibility for the management of
German affairs. It is not our desire to
administer this country. There are
certain principles of administration
to which I have made reference and
which we hold to be of great import-
ance. We shall insist upon the obser-
vance of. these principles. That, how-
ever, does not mean we wish to take
a direct part in the administration of
the country for one month longer than
is necessary, nor that we desire to
interfere any more than is essential to
ensure the observance of our prin-
ciples, .

In fact it is my strong feeling that
only, by transferring to Germans the
responsibility for the management of

‘their own affairs, including the balanc-

ing of their economy, can we ensure
that German leaders will act in a
Teally responsible manner.

17 NOVEMBER 1947

--- Page 16 ---
The new MG program to explain
the advantages of the American
conception of democracy was treated
cautiously by the German press of
the US Zone. Many of the papers
restated the fact that none of them
was ordered to join in the program
and that the attitude of each editor
was left to his own judgment.

The feeling that German unification
was now remote and the fear of
possible war prompted a majority to
emphasize solidarity with the eastern
Germans. Conservative editors called
for social reform to assimilate the
diverging areas of Germany.

The Frankfurter Neue Presse
emphasized that the US-licensed
papers have received neither an order
nor a hint to indulge in anti-com-
munism and that the information
campaign is not to lead to personal
attacks against foreign governments,
military governments, or personalities.
It declared:

“People who might rashly conclude
that now the old banner of anti-
communism can be resusciated will
have to be reminded that once before
anti-communism was used to put
the political power over Europe into
the hands of criminals and idiots.

. We stand against fascism and
against communism, but also against
the ‘antis’' because we can see through
them. We are for democracy as a
form of life.”

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) praised the US and British press
policies in contrast to those of the
Soviet Zone, saying:

“General Clay has revised the news
policy of his Military Government
to answer the communistic agitation;
but even so, he does not order the
German press to support this campaign,
but merely confirms its freedom to
State convictions ... It is up to us
today to use every possibility and
all our strength to prevent the divid-

17 NOVEMBER 1947

Caution Greets News Policy

ing line that crosses our country
from becoming an abyss... .”

“If we permit courselves to be
made satellites of an ideology that
does not correspond to our con-
victions, we will not gain the respect
of the world that we so bitterly
need . . . If we are independent, we
must be the mouthpiece of the German
public in dealing with the military
governments, not for destructive op-
position but as a partner in a
constructive conversation.”

The Hochland-Bote (Garmisch-Par-
tenkirchen), remarking that at long
last the US Military Government has
emerged from its reserve, said: “The
heavy attacks of communism are no
longer accepted without reply.”

The Nordsee-Zeitung (Bremen)
described the announcement of the
MG program as “not a challenge but
an answer.” The paper said that those
parts of Germany which felt bound to
ACA agreements had for two and a
half years been subjected to a
“constantly increasing barrage of
party propaganda, while they them-
selves felt bound to silence. Not oniy
that, but they had not even the
paper on which they might have
answered. Now it will be different.”

The Muenchner Mittag (Munich)
called the statement a fighting
challenge to communism, but went on
to define its own differing views. It

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not ne-
cessarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

13

believed
with Russia was impossible.

mpromise

The paper described the realization
of social justice as “the dream of
communism and a highly desirable
aim . . . Social conscience has
awakened within us too ... Negative
criticism of communism would not
bring us closer to the German men
and women on the other side of the
Elbe River who are counting on us.
The communist philosophy can be
overcome only by social action.”

What Did Soviet Press Do?

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
cited the great impression made on
its editors by a leading American
newspaper in reporting the speeches
of the Soviet deputy foreign minister
in New York. It said:

“Vishinsky dominates the ‘New
York Times’ of 19 September: four
pages belong to him . and the
reader can find out in that way what
a malicious paper he is reading. He
may even be tempted to look at his
fingers to see if they have not become
bloodied while touching this news-
sheet.

“Because the sins with which Mr.
Vishinsky in high dudgeon reproaches
the ‘capitalist press’ are so monstrous,
one feels like emigrating to some
country where humanity is better,
like the Urals or Siberia . . . The
American readers can tread all those
accusations and even discuss them in
public and make them the basis of
sharp criticism of existing conditions.

“What we would like to know is:
Has any Russian or Russian-influenced
press carried the full text of. (US
Secretary of State) Marshall's
answer?”

Reparations Criticism
Editorial comment in the German
press on the new list of reparations
plants tended to turn against the
German authorities, especially in the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Laender, for a lack of a constructive,
bizonal point of view. Exhibiting
indignation over discussions about
dismantling, the Mannheimer Morgen
said:

“It is irresponsible to shift the
dismantling problem on the Laender
level; the fight against the Bizonal
Economic Council is beginning to
threaten our very existence ...

“Our ministers should not indulge
in cheap protests, but should stay
at home and see to it that in a few
weeks a comprehensive west German
industrial plan on the basis of the
dismantlings is devised.

“This plan should be used to point
out where it has been in error. There
is no use complaining about not being
called to collaborate before one has
convinced the occupation authorities
that such collaboration would be
worthwhile.”

Confidence of Germans

The Stuttgarter Zeitung, comment-
ing on the results of General Clay's
recent visit to Washington, parti-
cularly since he has a freer hand to
determine policies, said:

“The considerations that have led
Washington to this solution are easily
guessed: recognition of what General
Clay has achieved in Germany up to
now, but also realization that the
personal experience and knowledge of
the people and problems which the
General has acquired in daily
contacts in Germany cannot be
inherited by a successor, nor would a
successor enjoy that confidence of
the Germans which General Clay has
acquired in the course of his work."

Nazi Demonstration

The Suedost-Kurier (Bad Reichen-
hall) reported a spontaneous Nazi
demonstration in Muehldorf when a
former SS lieutenant was sentenced
to five years internment. The Spruch-
kammer chairman was insulted on che
street, and a car with prosecution
witnesses was stoned. The paper
pointed to the alarming fact that
spectators showed -no_ indignation,
that there was no sign of a counter-
demonstrations, It declared:

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

“The fact must not be overlooked
that Nazi propaganda is flourishing
on the soil of a systematic campaign
against the occupying power. It is
absolutely necessary that well-con-
sidered measures be taken against
abuse of freedom of opinion and
against terrorist demonstrators. At
the same time, however, the need
arises to help democracy come to
life by eliminating the general moral
and material distress."

The Main-Post (Wuerzburg) com-
mented with unusual sharpness on a
change in the leadership of the police
in the Bavarian province of Lower
Franconia. Dr. Mathern, who was a
victim of fascism, has been dismissed,
The paper said:

“With him the last president of
police in Bavaria who was put into
office by the Americans ... has been
removed from his position.”

One Hartmann, a former lieutenant
colonel who is awaiting denazifi-
cation, has been selected to succeed
Dr. Mathern. He is accused of having
exerted “militaristic terror" while :1
a PW camp in the United States,

The Niederbayrische Nachrichten
(Straubing) wrote indignantly about a
Nazi speech made by Father Roth,
chaplain of the Dachau internment
camp, to Nazi internees at Lang-
wasser, and called on officials to
crush such manifestations of reviving
Nazism. It declared:

“Father Roth stated among other
things that much is said against
dictatorship nowadays but that freedom
is being misused; he called the
Church's moral laws arbitrary in-
ventions and demanded a religion of
nature. According to Father Roth
there are three great natural laws:
‘heroic right to existence,’ the natural
law of authority (‘because Germans
must have a bell-wether, they must
be led’); finally the law of aristo-
cracy—(only the strong have a right
to live).

“One can almost think one is
listening to -Rosenberg’s ‘Mythus‘
ravings. The democratic state will for
the second time dig its own grave,
if it does not direct its close attention
to such matters ... It cannot be too
often repeated that the state and its
officials are guilty if, out of indul-
gence, weakness or incompetence,
they fail in this.”

14

Bizonal Council

The Offenbach Post found it “re-
vealing and very interesting that the
newly created Bizonal Economic
Council that so far had remained
largely unknown is gaining popularity
through unpopular measures,

“The Bizonal Economic Council had
to take extraordinary legislative
measures due to the rising pressure
of public distress as well as to the
Non-approval of the empowering
law by the Bipartite Control Office.

“Probably potato growers and
potato surplus districts will now be
unhappy about the confiscation of the
entire potato crop... However, the
Economic Council demonstrated that
it recognized the seriousness of the
situation and that it is willing to use
its legislative powers promptly in an
emergency.”

Official Criticized

The Schwaebische Landeszeiteng
(Augsburg) reproached Dr. Hund-
hammer, Bavarian Minister for Re-
ligion and Education, an undemocratic
attitude towards the press,

“It may be an _ unacustomed
feeling... for a Minister in Germany
to find himself continually subject
to the scrutiny of the independent
editors who do not stand in awe of
government authority. However, in-
sinuations such as ‘Who still believes
what he sees in the papers?’ betray
a secret desire for press dictation,
which would suppress everything un-
pleasant for ‘reasons of State.’ This is
especially amazing in a politician
who regards himself as an emphatic
opponent of collectivism.”

Gift Brings Thanks

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten re-
ported touching scenes in Stuttgart
during distribution of $6,000 worth of
lard, contributed by the Chicago
“Schwaben-Verein" (Swabian Union).

“Gratitude, surprise, joy, and much
more show in the faces of the re-
cipients and are expressed by ap
embarrassed ‘thanks.’ A young woman
places an etching of old Stuttgart om
the table and asks timidly if it could
be sent to the donors in America. She
says she has nothing else."

17 NOVEMBER 1947

--- Page 18 ---
Village Thanks US
For Child Feeding Plan

The Hessian leather-working village
of Muelheim has expressed, in the
form of a hand-lettered resolution
bound in a leather portfolio, its appre-
ciation to the American people for
the child feeding program. The port-
folio, tooled by Muelheim artisans,
was presented to Maj. William
R. Sheehan for transmittal to the
United States. Major Sheehan is
Senior Liaison and Security officer
for the Landkreis Offenbach.

“The feeding of our children,
initiated in June 1947, in accordance
with the Hoover Plan, has enabled
us to prepare highly substantial meals
and has resulted in a considerable
improvement in the state of our child-
ren’s health,” the resolution said.
“We thankfully appreciate this act of
Christian charity.”

Mayor Anton Dey of Muehlheim
reported that 188,352 meals have been
consumed by selected undernourished
school children from six to 18 years
of age in his town and its suburb of
Dietzheim, since the opening of the
program. Twenty-five tons of food
stocks, he said, went into preparation
of the lunches, which averaged be-
tween 350 and 400 calories each. Meat,
lard, beans, peas, milk powder, choco-
late, cookies, canned fruit, and cake
have been served from time to time
on various menus.

Karl Nover, acting Landrat of Offen-
bach, thanked Military Government
for its part in bringing the program
to reality. He expressed hope that
children benefiting from the plan
would appreciate the help they are
receiving from abroad.

Major Sheehan, in reply, said Amer-
icans will always support human-
itarian endeavor throughout the world,
and asserted: “The United States will
never forget needy children, wherever
they may be.”

On Bizonal Basis

Negotiations between Military Gov-
ernment and bizonal agencies con-
cerned have resulted in the decision
to make future allocations of mate-
tials and supplies to the Reichspost
organization on a bizonal rather than
a Land basis.

17 NOVEMBER 1947

Germans Move to Towns

JHE REVERSAL of the long-time

pre-occupation movement of the
German population toward the cities
was graphically illustrated in a US
Zone study made by the Land
statistical offices at the instigation of
Military Government.

The research showed that because
of the war the housing facilities of
all major cities were greatly reduced,
resulting in the evacuation of many
thousands of the population of the
zone to small cities and rural com-
munities.

In 1939, 26.3 percent of the popu-
lation lived in cities of more than
100,000, whereas the population in

increased; the smaller the size of the.
community, the greater the increase.
Rural communities of less than 2,000-
increased on the average by 41 per-
cent.

The sudden and substantial increase
of population created many problems
of food, housing, and transportation
in the smaller communities, Community
institutions likewise suffered.

[IE IMPORTANT question is
whether the present distribution:
of the population is temporary or
permanent. When restrictions on
movement are lifted, or at least
modified, a great part of the immi-

1939 1946
Size of Community ——— al —— a
uy Number of Number of '
Inhabitants | Percent Inhabitants | Percent

5,400,304 | 6,524,000 | 40.2
1,704,022 | 2,612,000 | 16.1
869,367 | 1,585,000 9.5
10,000 to 19,999 . 657,933 | 839,000 5.2
20,000 to 49,999 . 855,382 1,014,000 62
50,000 to 99,999 . 641,909 706,000 43
100,000 & above . 3,605,142 | E 2,965,000 183
Refugee camps ... = — 28,000 0.2
13,734,009 | 100.0 16,123,000 | 100.0

1946 dropped to 18.3 percent. The
proportion for the communities of
less than 20,000 rose from 62.8 per-
cent in 1939 to 71 in 1946,

Bavaria is a typical example of
this reversal of movement between
large cities and small communities.
The four major cities of Bavaria lost
18.7. percent of their inhabitants
between 1939 and 1946, whereas in
all other communities the population

grated population now living in the:
country will migrate to the cities.

In time the developments since 1939:
will be reversed, although it is pre-
dicted that even with a new equili-
brium between rural and urban.
districts, rural communities will con--
tinue to have on the average an
essentially higher population that
before. (From Civil Administration Annex:
of Military Governor's Report No. 27.)

EUCOM Handles Visits to Assembly Centers

ECAUSE of the increased number

of requests for permission to
visit assembly centers for United
Nations displaced persons, a single
channel for clearing visitors has been
established. All requests for visits to
assembly centers in the US Zone will
be referred to EUCOM, in Frankfurt,
which will coordinate all inspections
of displaced persons with the Pre-
paratory Commission of the Inter-
national Refugee Organization,
(PCIRO) and, where appropriate, with
the US Zone Commander’s Advisor

15

on Jewish Affairs or his Political,
Advisor.

PCIRO, because of lack of funds.
and an inadequate administrative
staff, is not able to undertake the.
support once given UNRRA to the
Universities of Munich, Heidelberg,
Marburg, and Frankfurt for educa-.
tional opportunities offered to dis-
placed persons.

However, PCIRO intends to con-
tinue the presents technical and vo-.
cational installations largely oper-.
ated within assembly centers.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN!

--- Page 19 ---
Industrial Production
Down 5°/, in September

NDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION in the

US Zone decreased more than five
percent in September from the level
reached in May, June, and July, as
Germany experienced its longest
drought in 30 years,

An index prepared by the Economics
Division, OMGUS, showed that the
volume of such production was 48,
compared to the August figure of 51.
These figures were based on the 1936
average of 100.

Generation of electricity by water
power in September hit the lowest
point since the beginning of the occu-
pation. At 157,000,000 kilowatt-hours,
it was 37 percent lower than in August
and 50 percent below that of Septem-
ber 1946. Consumption had to be
reduced by severe restrictions on con-
sumers, especially industrial. Switch-
offs had to be imposed in most lo-
calities,

Some industries experienced addi-
tional absenteeism as workers went
to the fields to join in harvesting the
crops, and continued scarcity of coal
and transportation added to the de-
pressing influence of the water and
electricity famine.

Nevertheless, hard coal production
in the British Zone reached almost a
241,000-ton daily average for Septem-
ber, 1.6 percent above that for August
and the highest since the occupation
began.

Declines were registered in six in-
dustrial groups. The largest of these
industries, chemicals, was down 26
percent from the August level; vehi-
cles, 22 percent; stones and earths,
11 percent; saw mills, 10 percent;
electricity and gas, six percent, and
machinery, five percent.

Five other groups remained steady
or only slightly changed: ceramics,
textiles, optics, electrical products,
and paper and pulp. Production in five
industries rose, iron and steel, glass,
mining, and leather gaining from
three to six percent each, and the
rubber industry rising 27 percent.

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 83, Medical Care in the
European Command, Hq EUCOM,
8 October 1947.

Signal SOP No. 47, Telephone Di-
rectories, Hq EUCOM, 15 October
1947, Supersedes Signal SOP No. 47,
1 February 1947,

Technical Memorandum No. 8, Res-
ervation of Space on Military Duty
Trains, Hq EUCOM, 16 October 1947.
Gives substitutions for Technical
Memorandum No. 2, Hq EUCOM,
24 April 1947.

Weekly Directive No. 11, Hq
EUCOM, 24 October 1947. Gives list
of. following sections:

Sec I—Smallpox Vaccination, AG
720.3 MCH. .

Sec II—Statement on Food Conser-
vation by Secretary of Defense, AG
430 CGM.

Sec IlI—Distribution of
Directives, AG 461 AGO.

Sec IV—Replacement Factors and
Consumption Rates. States that units
and major commands need no longer
furnish report required in reference
letter War Department, AGAO-S 400,
27 February 1947, D-M.

Sec V—Assignment of Officers to
the 7738th AES Group, AG 210.3 SSP.

Sec VI—Uniform Regulations for
Foreign Liaison Personnel, AG 322.01
ALC,

Sec VII—Reenlistment Leaves, AG
220.711 GPA. Gives substitutions for
Section XI, Weekly Directive No. 6,
Hq EUCOM, 19 September 1947,

Circular No. 87, Hq EUCOM, 29 Oc-

Weekly

tober 1947, Section I—Emergency
Medical and Ambulance Service;
Section J—Hunting and Fishing

Policy; Section III—Establishment of

the EUCOM Exchange System.
Weekly Directive No. 12, Hq

EUCOM, 31 October 1947, Gives list

of following sections:

* Sec I—Christmas Mail, AG 311.1

AGM. Pertains to the peak period

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters,

and plans for handling the increased
flow of mail.

Sec. II—Preparation of Ice Cream,
AG 430 MGH.

Sec III—Military Police on Military
Duty Trains, AG 322 PMG.

Sec IV—Unit Postal Records, AG
313.3. AGM. Gives substitution for
Circular No. 11, EUCOM, 3 April 1947,

Sec V—Preparation of Enlistment
Records, Regular Army, WD AGO,
Forms 21, AG 200.4 GPA,

Sec VI—Travel to Yugoslavia, AG
200.4 GPA. Cites regulations govern-
ing travel for prospective visitors,

Sec VII—Travel to Holland, AG
200.4 GPA. Cites information for
guidance,

Sec VIII—Processing Personnel for
Return to the Zone of the Interior,
AG 370.5 GPA. Pertains to hand and
hold baggage accompanying person-
nel.

Sec IX—Closed Vehicles for Signal
Messenger Service, AG 451 SIG,

Sec X—Operational Status Reports,
AG 319.1 GSP,

Sec XI—Foreign Service Tours of
Military Personnel, AG 210.31 GPA.

Sec XII—Duty Uniform for US
Military Police in the European Com-
mand, AG 332.31 CPA,

Amendment No. 1 to the Military
Government Order Providing for
Disposition of Certain Coal Pro-
perties, 1 October 1947, AG 010.6 (ED),
OMGUS, 3 November 1947,

Subsources Printed and Available
for Issue to Students as of 10 August
1947, AG 352, 3 November 1947. Re-
fers to “Army Extension Courses,”

Black Market Gozds

The rural police of Hesse have
increased their checks of highway
traffic in order to curb black market
activity and illegal dealing in food
items. In one Land-wide four-hour
check of all main roads, almost 68,500
pounds of food and 503 bottles of
wine were confiscated,

In another black market seizure in
Hesse, two tons of potatoes, 700 pounds
of white flour, 200 pounds of rye, and
200 pounds of beans were found
hidden behind a stack of mail parcels
in a Reichspost mail truck from
Duesseldorf, North Rhine--Westphalia.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF