--- Page 2 ---
NUMBER 113 / 6 OCTOBER 1947

OW BULLET

y

NFORMATI

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
opr MARBURG

LAUTERBACH,
OBER #
LAHNKREIS

FRIEDBERG
Gags BODINGEN
ay eae

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

=

OFSHEIM

MOSBAGH
BRUCHSAT
HEILBRONN
Ln?
“Ee re

A=}

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEATHER FORECASTING — Information
on weather is taken out of the clouds by
scientific means, represented by the radio
antenna. The hand represents the human
element in plotting weather maps. That the
weather affects everybody is represented
by the group of people, An article on
weather service rehabilitation in Germany

begins on Pages 12 and 13,
(Photo by L. E. Bowlds, OMGUS PIO}

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

J. C. Cook, Jr., who prepared the article
on Coordination of Rail Transportation, was
an engineer with the Westinghouse Electric
Company until called to active duty with
the Army in June 1941, A graduate of the
Command and General Staff School, he later TABLE OF CONTENTS
was assigned to General Eisenhower's staff
and worked on planning of movements dur-
ing the offensive across France and Ger- Issue No. 113 6 October 1947
many. After the war, Major Cook was
assigned to G-4, Movements Branch, USFET.
Later, as a civilian, he became chief of the
Movements Branch in the OMGUS Trans- Maximization of Agriculture, Part2. ...... 5
port Division.

Day''Care\ Centerg 45 tes ita Wal lites ie euler ti ans

Coordination of Rail Transportation. . . . +--+ 10
The material for Day Care Centers was

provided by the Public Welfare Branch,
Internal Affairs and Communications Di- Ruhr Coal and European Recovery. - - +--+ + 15
vision, OMGUS,

Weather ‘Porecasting soe). Losin. 1 Sig ete 12

German Reactions: 28: fio sg. ese. be ae

Col. Don McNeal, author of the ee! fi
article on Weather Forecasting, is chief of Official Instructions - ~ ©. - s+ + + +s 20
the Meteorological Section of OMGUS. Station wmaghs sy.) Shae aise an arms nome

He is a graduate meteorologist of almost
30 years’ service in the Regular Army,
During the war he organized and command-
ed a meteorological school‘ of 4,000
students.

NEXT WEEK

Scheduled for issue No, 114 are articles
on a criminal investigation laboratory in
Bavaria, Friends’ work in Germany, and
leases for the US-licensed press. Part 3 of 4
Maximization of Agriculture also will be OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
published, CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
AY CARE CENTERS today are
filling an important place in the
lives of 300,000 children in the US
Occupied Zone of Germany. Included
in the groups which benefit from this
program are children with one or both
parents temporarily unable to pro-
vide care and guidance for them. In
many cases mothers are working
away from home all day, and fathers
are either dead, or are still-absent
PW’'s, In some instances fathers are
trying to keep a home together with
the aid of a grandmother or aunt. Still
other children benefit by being taken
away temporarily from unwholesome
environments resulting from the emo-
tional starvation and frustration left
by the war. For these youngsters the
expanding system of care away from
their homes in Day Care Centers has
been a great boon and will probably
contribute to their chances of becom-
ing normal, well-balanced adults,
Military Government's Public Wel-
fare Branch, which considers the Day
Care Centers a potent factor in the
prevention of juvenile delinquency,
has made every effort to stimulate
local communities to open former
Centers and establish new ones.
According to the latest figures (9 June
1947), there are 4,364 Centers in this
zone.

INCE EXISTING facilities are in-

sufficient to offer participation in
the program to all children, the places
in the Centers are reserved for chil-
dren in need. In some of the Centers
only children of working mothers are
accepted, and in others, only those
for whom no alternate plan such as
placement with relatives or friends

can be made. The cases are screened
by local welfare officials, and each
child is admitted on the merits and
necessity of his particular situation.
Some children attend free of charge;
the parents or guardians of others pay
a small fee.

These Centers, which are neither
schools nor institutions, are subdivid-
ed into creches and nurseries for
infants, kindergartens for pre-school
children and kinderhorte for school
children,

The Day Care Center program grew
out of the techniques, experience, and
general conceptions of social welfare.
The rigidity of the German school
system has never affected the Cen-
ters; their aim is to provide a home-
like atmosphere. Private welfare

agencies particularly the Caritas,
(Catholic), the Innere Mission (Prot-
estant), and the Workmen's Welfare
Association have been especially
active in the field. Nearly. two-thirds
of all Day Care Centers have been:
set up and are directed by these
organizations,

'NDER THE NAZI regime these
agencies faced the necessity of
great curtailment of their work in the
field of day care services for children.
The Centers were subjected to Nazi
Party control and many of their faci-
lities were confiscated for the party
and its affiliated organizations,
Today's Centers face special
problems. At a time when more
children than ever before need spe-
cialized handling by expert personnel,
there is a serious shortage of quali-
fied workers. Materials for recon-
structing war damaged buildings are
extremely difficult to obtain, and

essential supplies such as soap, towels,
electric light bulbs, paper, and toys
are short.

All of the Centers are run through-
out the year. Some of them open as
early as six o'clock in the morning to

Pictures on left: German children playing
and being led by a supervisor at Day Care
Centers in Berlin. (Right) German children

being fed at Day Care Center.
(Photos by Byers)

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 7 ---
take charge of children whose work-
ing mothers must leave home early.

Today, more than in the past, the
Centers strive to create a homelike
atmosphere. Emphasis is laid on pro-
viding a cheerful daytime environ-
ment, and in giving the child a feel-
ing of emotional security. Education
in the Centers is not directed to fit-
ting the child for school. Its aim is
rather to foster democratic habits of
mind and action, and to provide for
the development of character, per-

sonality, and social responsibility.
Center activities include games,
sports, music, training in hygiene,

crafts, and dramatics for older chil-
dren. Periodic physical examinations
of the children are an important
aspect of the program.

RE-SCHOOL children are fed at the

Centers. Food is provided through

a variety of agencies — the Inter-

national Red Cross, CRALOG, Quak-

ers and American private welfare
organizations.

During the past summer the Day
Care Centers planned their programs
with the goal of building up the
health of the children to enable them
to face the rigors of the approaching
winter. Throughout the warm weather
the youngsters have been taken to
playgrounds located away from the
congested central areas of bombed-
out cities for change and more restful
recreation. In many cities additional
food for the noon meal formed part
of the build-up program.

Public Welfare officials believe that
the children of the US Zone of Ger-
many are entering the winter of
1947-48 in better emotional health
than at any other time since the end
of the war. Day Care Centers have
played their part in this.

More Space for Germans
Living space, mostly in barracke,
for 26,000 persons have been made
available for use in the German econ-
omy by the closing of 94 camps in
the program of consolidating dis-
placed persons assembly centers.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dollar Judgments Permitted

MERICANS may now seek dollar

jugdments against other Americans
in cases growing out of automobile
accidents in the US occupied area,
including the US Sector of Berlin.
According to the Legal Division,
OMGUS, this is provided under MG
Ordinance No. 18, an amendment to
Ordinance No. 6, which became effec-
tive 'on 13 September. It permits the
MG Court for Civil Actions to enter
its judgment in military payment
certificates rather than in marks,
where all parties to a case are Ameri-
cans or dollar-paid personnel employ-
ed by a US agency.

Where one of the parties is a Ger-
man or other person not entitled to
military payment certificates, the
judgment will still be in marks. The
amendment also provides that, where
an American or certain other catego-
ties of persons who have legal access
to military payment certificates have
to pay marks as a result of court
action under Ordinance No. 6, they
must present a receipt showing pur-

PROF. BRUNO GLEITZE,
the University of Berlin, has been in-

rector of

vited to attend the international
statistical institutes at Washington.
Dr. Gleitze, who also is _presi-
dent of the statistical central bureau
in the Soviet Zone, is shown with
his two sons at his Berlin-Treptow
tesidence. (DENA Bild)

4

chase of the marks at a US Army
finance office.

The amended ordinance sets up the
only type of court in which a German
can bring a civil action against an
American or other United Nations
national without his consent.

The MG Court for Civil Actions
was established last year, but under
the original ordinance the court could
only render judgment in marks. The
Legal Division announcement ex-
plained that there have been a num-
ber of. automobile accidents where
an American was injured by another
American and it seemed only proper
to allow a judgment to be entered in
military payment certificates. Because
this was not possible, some cases
which otherwise would have been
filed in court or settled have been
held up pending amendment of
Ordinance No. 6. Enactment of the
amendment has opened the door to
the disposition of these claims.

The court has its principal seat in
Stuttgart but it sits elsewhere in the
US Zone and in the US Sector of Berlin.
Civil cases may be filed with the dep-
uty clerk of the court in the local
Land Office of Military Government.
A similar court was recently estab-
lished by Military Government in
Austria with jurisdiction over auto-

mobile accident cases there involving
US citizens.

In spite of the provision of the
original ordinance that suit must be
filed within six months after the
accident, a claim which arose after
21 November 1945 may now be filed
at any time up to 1 March 1948, This
enables the court to pass upon all
claims which have not previously
been filed by Americans because of
inability to obtain a jugment against
other Americans,

The jurisdiction of the court has also
been amended to- allow people sta-
tioned or living in the US Zone to
bring suit even though the accident
occurred in another zone of Germany,
provided the defendant is served in
the US Zone or in the US Sector of
Berlin,

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 8 ---
ESPITE the postwar difficults of
increasing the cultivated acreage
of Germany, substantial additions to
the crop lands have been made during

the past two years. As early as
1937/38 the total crop area had
reached a peak of approximately
17,870,450 acres. Plans for 1947/48 call
for exceeding this pre-war figure,
with a target planting of 17,932,200
acres,

More than 494,000 acres of mead-
ows and pastures have already been
ploughed up for crops and the plan
for this year calls for an additional
691,600 acres. Approximately 123,500
acres of forest land have also been
found suitable for agricultural pro-
duction, including clearcut areas,
young-tree plantations, and “under-
planting” within hardwood forests.

In addition to an increase in the
cultivated area, the crop plan for
1947/48 calls for a substantial reduc-
tion in food and fodder crops and a
corresponding increase in crops for
human consumption — amounting to
a change in utilization affecting
almost 10 percent of the total plant-
ed area.

6 OCTOBER 1947

To carry out this planting pro-
gram it is necessary to utilize all
possible sources of arable land. Nu-
merous public parks and grounds, as
well as park land in private estates,
have been planted in vegetables or
other crops by local authorities. Much
of the ground belonging to the former
German army has been released for
agriculture; indeed, many training
grounds that had been used for
military exercises by the occupation
troops are now under cultivation.
In Land Bavaria alone the former
‘Wehrmacht lands available for agricul-
tural settlement exceed 24,700 acres.

BEGINNING has also been made

in the resettlement of refugees
and expellees on land formerly belong-
ing to large estates but now available
for new settlement under the various
land reform programs of the Laender.
Distribution of the bulk of such land,
however, will begin on a full scale
only this year. Though it is often
said that such a break-up of large
farm holdings leads to a temporary
reduction of the surplus produce
available for delivery, the plan is
expected to lead in the long run to

5

more intensive cultivation and to an
improvement in the food supply.

An extreme shortage of building
materials for housing new settlers
has, however, proved most difficult
to overcome.

Particularly successful in*improving
the food supply has been the home-
garden project. This year there are
nearly 250,000 new gardens in the
US Zone alone — most of them serv-
ing expellee and refugee families.
This program is expected to increase
the number of home gardens in the
US Zone by 15 percent over 1946,
when an increase of some 13 percent
over 1945 was recorded. This year,
there are 1,940,000 home and subsist-
ence gardens in the US Zone.

HE GARDENS are estimated to

average 3,000 square feet in size
and to benefit from four to five people
directly. The home garden program
this year is directly assisting at least
8,000,000 persons, or nearly half the
population of the US Zone. Home gar-
den vegetables are an important
source of variety in the diet of those
Germans who can find land for the
purpose. Although low in caloric

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
value, home-grown ‘vegetables pro-
vide perhaps 100 calories a day dur-
ing the summer months for many
members of the German population.

A similar program. is being pressed
in the British Zone, but the greater
population density and the urban
character of much of the region (as
in the Ruhr) makes the expansion of
home gardens difficult, The drought
has greatly reduced home garden
yields in both zones.

Pre-war German crops_ received
heavy applications of nitrogen, phos-
phate, and potash fertilizers. During
the last war years, however, the
availability of nitrogen and potash
was seriously reduced and phosphates
were virtually unobtainable. US and
UK fertilizer technicians estimate that
the restoration of pre-war yields will
require three or four years of ferti-
lizer applications totaling annually
between’ 330,000 and 440,000 short
tons of pure nitrogen, somewhat more
in phosphates and over 550,000 short
tons of potash.

Nothing like these quantities has
been available so far. Last year
domestic production and imports to-
gether made available about half of
the nitrogen and potash and a quar-
ter of the phosphates now considered
desirable for annual application. Nor
does this take into account the accu-
mulated deficit of the several preced-
ing years. It is hoped that this year
increased indigenous production plus
a greater availability of imports will
make possible the supply of 80 to 90
percent of the nitrogen required for
field crops (though not for pastures
and meadows, where it is also badly
needed); about 75 percent of the
potash requirement, and perhaps 65
percent of the needed phosphate.

HE SHORTAGE of coal and ma-

chinery, the limitations on German
steel production (a source of phos-
phates in the form of Thomas slag),
and the inability to obtain deliveries
of. ammonia. from the French Zone
are the chief factors limiting fertilizer
production in Germany as a whole.
Schemes for increasing production by
extra food rations and other induce-
ments to workers: in the fertilizer
plants have not been deemed practi-
cable; the over-all short supply of food
and other consumer goods has so far

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

permitted such incentives only in the
case of coal miners.

Under the Marshall Plan, it is
expected that Germany might be
made self-sufficient in nitrate and
potash production within about five
years as for phosphate fertilizers,
however, imports of finished super-
Phosphates totaling between 110,000
and 155,000 short tons annually (one-
third the total requirement) and of
Phosphate rock for producing the
remaining two-thirds would appear
permanently necessary. The cost may
be expected to continue between
$50,000,000 and $60,000,000 a year
throughout the life of the Marshall Plan.

In estimating the effect of such a
fertilizer program, however, it must
be emphasized that appreciable im-

Provement in agricultural yields can-
not be expected immediately, and
that only sustained applications over
at least two years can assure maxi-
mum results,

The chief seed-raising areas of pre-'
war Germany were the north .and
east, and the Bizonal area was
heavily dependent on those regions
for seeds and seed potatoes which it
did not itself produce. For example,
from 400,000 to 500,000 tons of seed

potatoes were brought into this
region annually from the east,
Basic climatic conditions have

militated against the development of
self-sufficiency in seeds in western
Germany, and since V-E Day the
technical “know-how” of seed raising
also has had to be built up. At the

Food Situation Publicized

OOD IS THE CHIEF preoccupation
of every German; indeed, the
struggle to get more food often diverts
productive efforts from other sections
of the economy which may be equally
important from the over-all viewpoint.
To promote an understanding, how-
ever, of the underlying~ reasons: for
Germany's food deficiency and to win
the German public — both consumers
and producers — to an active support
of the controls necessary to maximize
food production and collections, has
required planned publicity.

In order to bring home the magnit-
ude. of Germany's food production
deficit, and the amount of Allied food
supplies now being imported at the
expense of the US. and UK taxpayers,
there are continual releases from both
Military Government and the German
food authorities to the press, radio,.
and news-reel services. For example,
US Military Government in Berlin has
published since 1946 a monthly inform-
ation bulletin on the food and agri-
cultural situation, which is distributed
to 27,000 individual officials and com-
munity Ieaders in the US Zone.

A semi-monthly news letter is pub-
lished in’:the Laender ‘weekly papers
as a means of reaching some 464,000
subscribers, and extracts from this
material are published’ in daily news-
Papers having a circulation of over
4,000,000. Each of the Laender has its
own radio, station which broadcasts

6.

regularly the more important parts of
such food and agricultural releases.

TE GERMAN LAND officials, ‘like-

wise, publish constant reminders.
of the need for maximum food pro-
duction and collections, by. means of
special periodicals and their own in-
formation services to community ad-
ministrators and other functionaries.
- The popular news reel “Welt im
Film” frequently includes shots. dram-
atizing. food imports from the US,
control of blackmarket racketeering,
etc.; and a full-dress documentary film
on the German food-deficit problem is
being produced for release throughout
the bizonal area.

“Improved public understanding of
the food-control measures now being
enforced, as well as technical dis-
cussion of methods for increasing
food production and collection, has
recently come from local “discussion
groups” stimulated by visiting Amer-
ican experts on agricultural extension.
work. For example, in Hesse alone, an
average of 1,500 discussion meetings
are held monthly at the community
level, with perhaps 30 to 50 farmers
participating in each.

A uniform German handbook’ has’
also been prepared to help local Ger-
man officials hold short courses for
their own staffs and to set up a co-
ordinated system of leadership-train-
ing and group discussions.

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
insistence of the US Military Gov-
ernor, however, the Bizonal area has
been déveloping to the maximum its
own seed and seed-potato production.
The acreage under seed-grain cul-
tivation has been increased by ap-
proximately one-half in two years
and the acreage for seed potatoes
more than trebled.

Nevertheless, many badly needed
seeds cannot be satisfactorily pro-
duced in this region, and yearly im-
ports of a certain quantity of seed
potatoes from colder climates are also
essential for foundation purposes. It
is estimated that from $20,000,000 to
$25,000,000 annually will have to be
spent for imported seeds during the
next few years, and an additional
$5,000,000 for imported seed potatoes.

An intensive agriculture, such as
is found. in Germany, is particularly
dependent upon an adequate supply
of hand tools, farm machinery, and
repair parts. Before the war Germany
was self-sufficient in all these items
and also exported substantial quanti-
ties. Today, however, with her manu-
facturing capacity reduced and the
supply of coal, iron, and steel inade-
quate, production of farm equipment
lags far behind the requirements.

It is estimated that new production
adequate for replacing the annual
loss from ordinary wear and tear —
without making up the accumulated
deficit of the last three years —
would require approximately 385,000
short tons of iron and steel a year.
Against this requirement, it has been
possible to allocate only 110,000 short
tons from the limited German steel
output during the past year — an
amount insufficient even to maintain
the supply of farm equipment at its
present level.

If the harvest formerly associated
with German intensive cultivation
are to be recovered, a substantial in-
crease in the supply of agricultural
tools and machinery is absolutely
necessary.

Dee the great numbers of refu-
gees and expelles that have swell-
ed the population of the Bizonal area,
and despite unemployment in the
cities, a scarcity of satisfactory farm
labor is reported by the German Food
and Agriculture Agency. A traveler

6 OCTOBER 1947

New British Governor Named

Lt. Gen. Sir Brian Robertson

through rural Germany sees women,
children, and old men working in the
fields, but very few young men. This
situation is due to a number of fac-
tors.

Several million of Germany's young
men were killed in the war and sev-
eral hundred thousands of others are
still prisoners.

If the farmer attempts to hire un-
employed male labor from the cities
or from among returning PW’'s he
must pay legal wages, which have
trebled since before the war, although
the legal prices of his farm products
have not increased substantially. To
keep such labor he must usually offer
as inducements extra food, as well as
clothing and other articles obtained
by illegal barter. When he uses his
farm produce for bartering, however;
he is subject to court action for fail-
ing to deliver his harvest to the con-
trol authorities,

This situation is unsatisfactory to
the farmer and the laborer alike. The
German city worker is as unwilling
to work 16 hours a day, seven days a
week, for the wages of an unskilled
laborer as an American city worker
would be. The result is that generally
the actual farm work must be done by
the farmer's own family, with the
younger men usually absent.

7

IEUTENANT GENERAL Sir Brian

H. Robertson will become Military
Governor of the British Zone of Ger-
many on.1 November, succeeding the
Marshal of the Royal Air Force, Sir
Sholto Douglas.

Sir Brian will also succeed Sir
Sholto as Commander-in-Chief of the
British forces in Germany, and British
member of the Allied Control Council
for Germany.

The future Military Governor served
with the Royal Engineers throughout
the first World War, winning the
Distinguished Service Order and the
Military Cross.

He retired from the Army in 1933,
but at the outbreak of war joined the
South African Army and was ordered
to Ethiopia. He became Chief Ad-
ministrative officer of the Eighth
Army under General Alan Cunning-
ham, and held the post under all the
Eighth Army commanders.

During this time he was made a
member of the order of the Comman-
der of the British Empire and member
of the order of the Commander of the
Bath. From 1944 to 1945 he was Chief
Administrative officer to Sir Harold
Alexander, Commander-in-Chief .in
Italy, and was made a Knight Com-
mander of the. Victorian Order in
1944. He came to the British Zone
as Deputy MG in July 1945.

Distribution Formula

A key for the distribution of relief
supplies imported into the US Zone
of Germany has been adopted by the
German Central Distribution Com-
mittee. The GCDC, a Laenderrat
agency created in the zone for. the
purpose of allocating such supplies,
has evolved a formula for determin-
ing the areas of greatest need on the
basis of a study made by a special
committee.

The recommended allocation of
supplies would give Bavaria 48.8 per-
cent; Hesse 23.4 percent; Wuerttem-
berg-Baden 22.3 percent; and Bremen
5.5 percent. It is expected that this
formula will be used in the distri-
bution of both designated and un-
designated supplies by the GCDC.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 11 ---
Glossary of Political Parties

MAJOR PARTIES

€DU — Chrisflich - Demokratische
Union; Christian Democratic Union.
Authorized in all Zones and in all
Laender; known as CDU except as
follows:
CsU — Christlich - Soziale Union:
Christian Social Union, in Land
Bavaria, US Zone.
BCSV — Badische-Christlich-Sozi-
ale Volkspartei; Baden Christian
Social People’s Party in South
Baden, in the French Zone.

SPD — Sozialdemokratische Partei
Deutschlends: Social - Democratic
Party of Germany. Authorized in
all zones except the Soviet. In the
French Zone it is not permitted to
include the word “Deutschlands”
in its title.

KPD — Kommunistische Partei
Deutschlands: Communist Party of
Germany. Authorized in the three
western zones only; does not
function officially in the Soviet
Zone or in Berlin. In the French
Zone it is not permitted to include
the word “Deutschlands” in its
title, and the word is sometimes
omitted in local Communist groups
in the US Zone.

SED — Sozialistische Einheitspartei
Deutschlands: Socialist Unity Party
of Germany. Formed officially
1 May 1946 by a merger of SPD
and KPD in the Soviet Zone; also
authorized in Berlin but without
merger.

DPD — Demokratische Partei Deutsch-
lands: Democratic Party of Ger-
many. A name given to a middle-
of-the-road group of parties author-
ized in all zones and in all
Laender as follows:

LDP — Liberal - Demokratische
Partei: Liberal Democratic Party
in the Soviet Zone; and Land Hesse,
US Zone.

FDP — Freie Demokratische Partei:
Free Democratic Party in the Brit-
ish Zone, and in Land Bavaria and
Land Bremen, US Zone.

DVP — Demokratische Volkspartei:
Democratic People’s Party in Land
Wuerttemberg-Baden and Land
Bremen, US Zone; and Wuerttem-

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

berg-Hohenzollern, French Zone.
DP — Demokratische Partei:, Dem-
ocratic Party in South Baden,
French Zone.

LP — Liberale Partei: Liberal Party
in Regierungsbezirke Koblenz,
Montabaur, Rheinhessen, and Trier
of Rheinhessen, and Trier of Rhein-
land-Pfalz, French Zone.

SV — Sozialer Volksbund: Social
Pegple’s League, Regierungsbezirk

Pfalz of Rheinland-Pfalz, French
Zone.
MINOR PARTIES
US Zone:
WAV — Wirtschaftliche - Aufbau-

Vereinigung: Economic Reconstruc-

tion Association. Authorized only

in Land Bavaria.
AP — Arbeiter-Partei:

Authorized

Land Hesse.
NDP — Nationaldemokratische Partei:

National Democratic Party. Author-

ized in several Kreise in Land

Hesse.

There are also a few miscellane-
ous local parties authorized in single
Kreise or even in individual Gemein-
den, especially in Land Bavaria.

Labor Party.
in several Kreise in

British Zone :

NLP — Niedersichsische Landes-
partei: Lpwer Saxon State Party.
Authorized in Land Niedersachsen.

Zentrum — Zentrumspartei: Center
Party. Authorized in the whole
British Zone.

SSV — Sued-Schleswig Vereinigung:
South Schleswig Association. Author-
ized in Land Schleswig-Holstein
only.

DRP — Deutsche Rechtspartei: Ger-

man Right Party; also known as
Deutsche Konservative Partei (DKP),
or German Conservative Party.
Authorized throughout the British
Zone.

RVP — _ Rheinische Volkspartei:
Rheinisch People’s Party. Author-
ized in Land Nordrhein-West-
falen.

Soviet Zone:
political parties are
but several ‘“demo-

No minor
authorized,

8

Bizonal Discussion

The US State and War Departments
announced in Washington that, “ar-
Tangements have been made for
Anglo-American discussion early in
October on the financial provisions
of the Bizonal Economic Fusion
Agreement of 2 December 1946,

“The discussions will take place in
accordance with provisions of this
agreement which provides for review
at yearly intervals. The British
Government has requested this review
owing to their great difficulty and
continuing present dollar expenditure
for the support of the economy of the
combined United States-United King-
dom Zones.

“In view of these forthcoming dis-
cussions, it was thought appropriate
to inform members of the Senate and
House Appropriations Committees of,
the proposed talks with the British.
The discussions with British will be
held in Washington jointly by State
and War Departments in consultation
with Treasury Department and other
interested government agencies.”

Assumes New Job
Robert Rodes Estill, of Pittsburgh,
has arrived in Berlin to assume the
position of chief of the Coal and
Mining Section of the Industry Branch,
according to the Economics Division,
OMGUS. He will succeed Max H.
Forester, who is returning to the US
after being on duty with Military

Government since March 1946.

cratic anti-fascist groups,” not
technically organized as Parties,
have presented candidates in re-
cent elections. Among these the
most important is the Verein der
Gegenseitigen Bauernhilfe (Peas-
ants’ Mutual Aid Association).
Others include the Free German
Youth, Women’s Committee, the
trade union organization, and the
Cultural League.

French Zone:

No minor political parties are
authorized.

Berlin:

No minor political parties are
authorized.

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
Inspecting Barter Mart

(Top, left to right) German civilian; Rep. Dwight L. Rogers (D-Fla.), A. Ogden

Pierrot, of the State Department; Maj. Carl E. Welchner, escort officer of the

Visitors Bureau in Berlin, and a saleswoman at the Berlin Barter Mart. (Below,

left to right) Rep. James I. Dolliver (R-Iowa), Rep. Oren Harris (D-Ark.), Pierrot,
and Rep. Leonard Hall (R-N.Y.) (Photos by Bowlds)

6 OCTOBER 1947 9

Allies Will Resume
Minting German Coins

HE FINANCE DIRECTORATE of

the Allied Control Authority has
agreed to resume minting of Reichs-
mark coins to relieve the present
shortage. The additional coins, of
5 and 10 pfennig denominations, will
be identical with these now in cir-
culation, except that the Nazi swastika
will be removed from the design.

The Finance Division, OMGUS,
placed particular, emphasis on the
announcement that if and when
monetary reform takes place it was
the intention to treat coins exactly
the same way as banknotes. Accord-
ingly, there will be no possibility
for hoarders of coins to gain ad-
vantage over and above holders of
banknotes,

It was emphasized that all money
circulating in Germany, whether
banknotes, Allied Military Marks,
existing coins or the new additional
coins, is in principle of equal value.
Speculations to the contrary were
characterized as “not merely harm-
ful to the German economy but also
without foundation.”

The additional coinage will be
issued against withdrawal and de-
struction of banknotes under quadri-
partite supervision. It will, thus, not
result in an increase in money Cir-
culation in Germany.

Extradition Limited
The War Crimes Branch of Legal
Division, OMGUS, has announced
that requests from other nations for
extradition of alleged war criminals
and traitors from the US Zone must
be submitted prior to 1 November
1947, However, with respect to evi-
dence of guilt offered to support the
extradition claim, such evidence may
be submitted up to 31 December 1947.
This action is in line with general
efforts to terminate the entire war
crimes program at an early date. No
new indictments will be presented
in either the Nuremberg or Dachau
trials after the first of the year.
Requests for extradition should be
addressed to the 7708th War Crimes
Group, which is located in Munich.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
FAIL Jramsportation

INDER PEACETIME economic con-

ditions, the transport system of
a country is capable of meeting all
demands normally placed upon it
and with normal rate structures the
question of the type of transport to
be used for any particular traffic is
determined by the shipper with re-
gard to cost, speed, and the peculiar
characteristics of the traffic. Under
such normal conditions railway and
other transport systems maintain their
own individual traffic departments to
plan the manner in which transport
demands will be met.

An entirely different situation exists
in Germany today. The _ transport
system is in no way capable of
meeting the day-to-day demands
placed upon it, even during slack
seasons. The currency and rate
structure is out of gear to such an
extent that the normally cheaper
means of transport have become the
most expensive. Added to this are
policies laid down by Allied author-
ities as to the use of transport,
which were established to prevent
the Germans from developing the
transport system as a future aid for
military operations.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

General view of freight yards adjacent
to Bremen docks. (Byers)

There is the further restriction that
Germany cannot deal directly with
other countries to determine the
traffic originating therein destined for
Germany. The result of these factors
has been that the normal laws of
supply and demand cannot be allowed
to control the furnishing of transport
facilities for the movement of German
commerce. In order to exercise the
control the movement of traffic nec-
essary to insure that Allied policies
are carried out, and that the most
advantageous use is being made of
the German transport facilities, “Move-
ments” Branches have been estab-
lished as a part of the Transport
Divisions of US and British Military
Government.

pgs ORGANIZATION of this branch
dates back to the days of SHAEF
where it was a part of G-4 division.
After Germany was occupied control
of traffic movements was first the
responsibility of G-4 USFET. Military
Government took charge of the oper-
ation of the German Transport system

10

on 1 January 1946, and all move-
ments and traffic agencies in this
zone were finally consolidated and
emerged the Movements Branch of
the Transport Division.

Under this organization, the Ger-
man Zonal Movements Office was
established in the US Zone as part
of the German Laenderrat. This
office was notified that the trans-
portation priorities were: (1) military
traffic, (2) other traffic of interest to
US Forces, including accepted inter-
national traffic, and (3) German civil
movements. The German office was
given the responsibility of establish-
ing the priorities for the civil move-
ments in the US Zone while the
Movements Branch of OMGUS ar-
ranged military moves and moves of
interest to US Forces. These pro-
grams were presented to the German
Zonal Movements Office for imple-
mentation.

wr THE US and British zones
were combined, the German
transport agencies were organized as
four general administrations—rail,

waterway, highway and movements—
under the direction of a central or-

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
ganization known as the Executive
Committee for Transport. Generals
Lucius D, Clay and Sir Brian Robertson
in a meeting with Transport agencies
on 28 February 1947, directed the
establishment of a bizonal movements
organization within the Executive
Committee for Transport, This organi-
zation was established under the title
of the ZVL (Central German Move-
ments Directorate) and was assigned
the following functions:

1, To. receive from. the bipartite
movements staff the broad pro-
grams of: Allied traffic, i. e., im-
ports and exports requiring
Allied transport coordination,
international transit traffic, mili-
tary and Military Government
maintenance traffic and any
other traffic classed as manda-
tory.

2. To receive from the bipartite
movements staff policy direc-
tions on the allocation of traffic
between transport agencies.

3. In accordance with 1 and 2,
to plan and issue general pro-
grams for all traffic moving in
the combined zones.

4. To coordinate, in consultation
with the bipartite staff, the
planning of the general ad-
ministrations and the German
Economic authorities on the
transport requirements to meet
the level of industry plans.

5. To issue the priorities for move-
ment of traffic as required by
the German executive committee
for economics, to the general
administrations and to the
German = Laender transport
autherities, and to ensure that
these priorities are observed.

t the same time, a Bipartite Move-

ments Staff of Allied personnel
was organized in Herford. This organ-
ization supervises the German Central
Movements Directorate established by
the orders of Generals Clay and Rob-
ertson. It also plans these move-
ments which the Germans cannot ad-
equately schedule, including military
traffic, international traffic, and ex-
port-import traffic.

The military programs are ob-
tained by the Bipartite Move-
ments Staff from the supply divisions

6 OCTOBER 1947

of the US and British Armies. The
clearance of international traffic has,
in the past, been a function of the
European Central Transport Organ-
ization. The transport ministries of the
various member countries . present
their bids for international traffic. The
Bipartite Movements Staff sends rep-
resentatives to the monthly meeting
of this organization where con-
templated international traffic pro-
grams are discussed and bids for
those crossing the bizonal area are
accepted or rejected.

Export and import traffic from and
to the bizonal area consists princip-
ally of coal destined to other Eu-
ropean countries and of raw materi-
als, food and petroleum, oil and
lubricants into, and finished goods out
of, the combined zones. The finished
exports are covered by contracts ne-
gotiated by JEIA.

With respect to traffic between the
Soviet Zone and the bizonal area, con-
sisting of imports, exports, and com-
modities exchanged under interzonal
agreements, information is exchanged
at a monthly meeting of the Quadri-
partite Movements Working Party.

In these ways a program of traffic
which could not normally be planned
by the Germans is put together and
passed to the German Central Move-
ments Directorate for implementation.

The German Central Movements
Directorate, through offices in each
zone and in each Land, makes similar
plans for the movement of indigenous
traffic. The Land Movements Offices
meet monthly to plan movements
within and between Laender. These
meetings are attended by the Econom.
ics and Food and Agriculture rep-
resentatives in the German Land
Government, and by the principal ship-
pers, as well as by local representa-
tives of the German railway, inland
waterways, and trucking interests.

In planning this movement they are
governed by the policy of the Allies
to make maximum utilization of in-
land water transport. Account is taken
of the availibility of German truck
transport and its capacity to execute
short-haul movements, in addition to
its function as a supplier of feeder
and distribution service for the rail-
roads and inland waterways.

The remainder of the Land program

is allocated to the German railroads.

11

The Land Movements programs are
forwarded to the ZVL where they are
consolidated to form a completed pro-
gram which includes both the German
and Allied bids.

Inter-Laender food movements and
the movements of food imports from
the ports are planned according to in-
formation furnished by the Executive
Committee of Food and Agriculture.
The completed program serves as a
guide to Transport agencies as to their
proposed loads, furnished valuable in-
formation as to the trends in traffic
demands, and provides information
whereby the pattern of movements
may be studied in order to utilize
more efficiently the available trans-
port.

'N THE ACTUAL CARRYING out of

movements demands, the question
of traffic priorities is of primary im-
portance. It has been recognized that
economic authorities are best qua-
lified to state in what order of pri-
ority traffic movement's should be
made in order to use the limited
transport capacity to support the
economy of the bizonal area as effi-
ciently as possible. At the same time
the technical application of these pri-
orities, and the feasibility of enforce-
ment, can best be determined by trans-
port authorities. The present system of
priorities takes these factors into con-
sideration, Bipartite economic author-
ities have established these four move-
ments priorities: (1) military mainten-
ance traffic, (2) food movements, (3)
coal movements, (4) international move-
ments for dollar credits. Below these
priorities, in accordance with Allied
objectives of placing the responsi-
bility on the Germans for economic de-
cisions not involving Allied policy,
the German Executive Committee for
Economics is authorized to set all re-
maining priorities as it sees fit. Pri-
ority lists embodying their decisions
are published after consultation with
the German Central Movements Di-
rectorate and are disseminated to
Transport agencies by this organ-
ization.

Cognizance is taken of the fact that
the limited transport capacity could
be completely absorbed by the move-
ment of commodities in the top pri-
ority categories if these were applied
rigidly. For this reason, efforts are

(Continued on Page 16)

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 15 ---
URING GERMANY ’'S final desperate half year in World

War II many German meteorologists were transferred
from weather forecasting to other duties which were con-
sidered more urgent. In the last few weeks of the war
the national weather service of Germany completely
collapsed. By V-E Day, for the first time in 65 years, no
organized weather service existed anywhere in Germany.
Meteorologists were among the scattered and confused
population. Observatories were idle or destroyed.

The US Army Air Weather Service (2ist Weather Squad-
ron), advancing with the American Armies, had established
and operated a weather service throughout the American
WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

occupied area of Europe. By the end of the war its network
of stations covered the area which was later to be known
as the US Occupied Zone of Germany. This service was
operated for the benefit of the Army occupational units.
Observation stations and forecasting offices were located
in accordance with the needs of tactical units. No immed-
iate concern was given to the provision of weather ad-
vices for the German economy.

[HE FIRST step toward rehabilitation of a German
weather service was taken in July 1945, in the form
of a directive issued by the Commanding General, USFET.
This directive provided that immediate action would be
taken by the US Army Air Weather Service to provide all

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 16 ---
necessary weather information for German
dustrial, and other economic interests.

At the earliest date and to the fullest extent possible,
German meteorological personnel were to be assigned to
the preparation of weather forecasts for German interests.
No German personnel were to be permitted, however, to
prepare airways, terminal, or flight advisory forecasts. All
German meteorological records and files located in the US
Zone were to be placed under military control and pre-
served against destruction, and surveys of German meteoro-
logical equipment and supplies were to be made with a
view to their ultimate use by a reconstituted German
weather service.

During September 1945, the Air Directorate of the Allied

agricultural, in-

6 OCTOBER 1947

Control Authority formed a quadripartite Committee on
Meteorology. The Meteorological Section of the Aeronautics
Branch of the Armed Forces Division furnished the US
delegate to this committee. The committee became the
céntral coordinating and policy making body for meteoro-
logical matters throughout Germany. (Continued on Page 18)

(Top) Weather station (indicated by arrow) at Sonnblick,
Austria, near Salzburg, which serves weather-gathering
agencies in Germany (Air Forces photo). (Inset at left)
Weather and radio station at Zugspitze, Garmisch. (WIB
Staff) (Inset photo at right) Experimental station for agri-
cultural meteorology at Giessen (Winterhoff).

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

13

--- Page 17 ---


--- Page 18 ---
RUHR COAL AND EUROPEAN RECOVERY

American Economists Point to Large Amounts of Essential Goods
For Which Rest of Europe Depended on Germany Before the War

S THE US GOVERNMENT studied

the official report from the Paris
Conference which detailed Europe's
requirements and self-help proposals
under the Marshall Plan, and as
committees in the United States
studied the US resources for aid,
American economists considered the
contributions required from Germany
for the restoration of Europe's econ-
omy. They pointed significantly to
the large amounts of essential goods
for which the rest of Europe depended
upon Germany before the war.

Next to food, which Germany was
importing before the war, the greatest
single need of Europe today is coal.
In the 1937—38 coal year European
countries outside of England and Ger-
many imported about 66,000,000 short
tons of coal, chiefly from these two
countries in about equal measure.
Today, England is unable to meet its
own home requirements of coal.

The Ruhr has the great coal supply
in Europe suitable for metallurgical
purposes — a coal that is low in
sulphur content and makes good firm
coke, strong, porous and containing
no undesirable minerals. Thus Ger-
many must not only meet its own
prewar export quotas but also must
make up as much as possible of the
lost British prewar export supply, if

reactivation of Europe is to be
effectively realized.
In 1937—38 Germany exported

abeut 44,220,000 short tons of coal

PHOTOS on Page 14: (Top left) Weather
station technician in Berlin takes hourly
teading on dry bulb thermometer.
tight) Weather information is received by
tadio code. (Center) A few of many tele-
type machines which receive messages
from approximately 400 European weather
stations four times daily.
After weather information is collected at
Templehof, in Berlin, and by radio and
teletype, it is plotted on maps and graphs.
(Bottom right) Pilots are briefed prior to
departure from Templehof. (OMGUS PIO,

(Top

(Bottom left)

Bowlds)

6 OCTOBER 1947

out of a production of 242,220,000 tons
from its territory west of the Oder-
Neisse Rivers. In its best year before
the war Germany exported about
49,500,000 tons. Last year it exported
only about 14,723,500 tons, but this
was from a total production of

Miner adjusting blasting charge in
Ruhr coal mine. (Byers)

130,271,900 tons, which was less than
total requirements of Germany for its
internal use under the revised level
of industry plan for the bizonal area.

‘UST HOW important German coal
J and coke are to reactivation of indu-
Stry inthe rest of Europa is indicated
by German figures on these products in
the 1937—38 coal year. In that year
the Ruhr and Saar areas exported to
France alone some 8,884,722 short
tons of bituminous (commonly termed
“hard™ coal in Europe), 2,615,459 tons
of coke, and 407,790 tons of briquettes

15

or “brown” coal. To Netherlands
Germany exported that year 7,838,127
tons of hard coal, 379,045 tons of
coke, and 144,969 tons of briquettes;
to Czechoslovakia, 1,225,224 tons of
hard coal and 176,550 tons of coke;
and to Luxembourg-Belgium 6,030,596
tons of hard coal, 2,928,585 tons of
coke, and 223,850 tons of briquettes.

In May and June of this year Euro-
pean countries were buying coal at
a rate of 49,500,000 short tons annu-
ally. They obtained only a small part
of this from Germany; the United
Kingdom no longer was a source.
During 1946 the United States, which
before the war shipped coal to Europe
only as ballast in ships returning
there light-loaded, exported 20,000,000
long tons to Europe. This export
reached 25,000,000 long tons for
12 months ended 30 June, 1947.

Europe needs coal to produce food.
Production of food requires fertilizer
and Europe gets much of its nitrogen
fertilizer from coal. Europe needs
coal for transport. Its railway system
operates largely on coal. It needs
coal for production of steel, which
in turn is needed to produce mining
machinery and many of other neces-
sary tools and parts which are ab-
solutely essential to reactivation of
Europe's industry.

Lack of coal affects Europe's lumber
supply. Sweden, Norway and Fin-
land, which normally supply much of
Europe’s lumber, today for lack of
coal are burning wood, even to pro-
duce electric power, and Europe's
lumber supply consequently is short.
This even affects pit props for the
coal mines themselves. Coal means
light, heat and power to Europe, for
most of these products are produced
from steam generated in boilers fed
by coal. More German coal is essen-
tial to the rest of Europe in the re-
building of its industrial capacity.

HIS DEPENDENCE of the rest of
Europe on Germany clearly is illu-
strated by 1936 figures on machine
and machine tool imports. The biggest

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
buyer of machines and machine tools
in Europe that year was Soviet Russia.
She bought 45,200,000 Reichsmarks
worth. Of this 5,100,000 Reichsmarks
were for textile and leather indus-
tries, 4,400,000 for paper and printing
machinery, 1,700,000 for office machin-
ery, 9,700,000 for “other” kinds of
machinery not including motor
vehicles and electrical machinery,
and 8,000,000 Reichsmarks worth for
electrical machinery and electrical
products.

All the rest of Europe was buying
from Germany on a similar scale.
Many European industries cannot
operate today because of lack of pro-
duction in Germany of machines,
machine tools and, of very great im-
portance, machine parts. With a
view to creating a dependence on
its industry, Germans constructed
many of their machines so they would
not be interchangable with those of
any other country.

Even their screws were made on
irregular patterns so they would have
to be replaced from Germany. This
means that, just as in Polish coal
mines which are equipped largely
with German mining machinery, there
are -many key industrial plants
throughout Europe remaining idle
today because Germany, through lack
of coal, steel produced from the coal,
and other reasons, has been unable
to get its industry up to more than
45 percent of its prewar production.

Even Czechoslovakia, which before
the war was — next to Germany —
the most highly industrialized and
most advanced of European nations,
in 1936 bought more than 3,800,000
Reichsmarks worth of machine tools
from Germany. Poland inported some
2,800,000 Reichsmarks worth.

These facts, Washington observers
said, clearly illustrate the importance
of utilizing Germany in the European
recovery program. Germany has to
produce more coal to make a living,
but it must produce and export more
coal and coal-dependent products
also for rehabilitation of the rest of
Europe.

The United States is . determined,
however, to restrict German indus-
trial rehabilitation to the bounds of
economic need only, and to prevent
a recurrence of militaristic indus-
trialism.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Continued from Page 11)
RAIL Transportation

made to move the largest percentage
of first priority demands, with a
smaller percentage of the demand
being filled for each commodity going
down the priority list. This system
insures some movement of all traffic
classed as: essential.

IHE POLICING of the priority
system is based on reports pre-
pared by the. transport agencies in-
dicating the demand and the amount
of transport furnished. These reports
show, in addition to cars supplied
for each category of traffic, the per-
centage of demand which is met for
each priority category. At the
present time in the bizonal area ap-
proximately 50 percent of total over-
all demands is being met. The top
four priority commodities, which are
absorbing approximately 60 percent
of the capacity of the transport
system, are receiving 80 percent to
90 percent of their demands.
Additional responsibilities were
added to movements control by the
transport crisis of the past winter,
when it was impossible to move
goods from ports at the rate of ar-
rival. It became apparent that some
control would have to be placed on
ocean shipping to insure that suffi-
cient capacity of storage in the port
area and clearence therefrom existed
for contemplated imports.

At present a section in the Bipartite
Movements Staff receives information
copies of all requests for shipping
and maintains a check on the status
of storage at the ports.

This section has the additional res-
ponsibility of diverting ships to the
port most suited to the handling of
the incoming cargo, Information is
received by the Bipartite Movements
Staff concerning the destination of
the cargo, as a ship approaches Euro-
pean waters. The Bipartite. Move-
ments Staff then determines the north
German port best suited to handling
the cargo and communicates the de-
cision to the ship.

Ships are assigned to ports de-
pending upon their draft, the cargo
handling equipment at the ports, the
status of storage facilities, and trans-
portation facilities connecting the

16

port with the intended destination of
the cargo, For example, where use
can be made of barges which move
from the Ruhr area to Emden with
coal, for backloading of civil affairs
supplies intended for the Ruhr, the
ship is diverted to Emden if the draft
is right and Emden is capable of un-
loading the cargo in question.

S THE GERMAN economy revives
it will be neccessary to insure
that the transportation network is
rehabilitated in balance with the
economy. Allied and German Trans-
portation authorities are being as-
signed the responsibility of co-
ordinating the planning of all forms
of transport with economic author-
ities to meet level of industry plans.
It will be necessary to determine
over-all movement capabilities on the
basis of contemplated allocations of
taw materials. These estimates of
movement capabilities will be com-
pared with the estimate of movement
demands made by industry based on ~
its contemplated raw material allo-
cations. The raw material allocations
will require revision as a result of
any lack of balance between trans-
port's capacity to move and industry's
need for transport.

It is anticipated that movements
control in some form will be nec-
essary until a balance is restored
between transport’s capabilities and
industry's demands, until a revised
rate structure will in itself insure the .
use in each individual case of the
most efficient means of transport, and
until German authorities can deal
with their neighbors in the handling
of international traffic matters.

be

Herring Catch

The Bipartite Food and Agriculture
Board has announced that August's
record herring catch by German
fishermen is more than enough to
meet all bizonal fish requirements for
the current ration period.

Consisting principally of herring,
42,440 tons fish were landed. This
was more than double the July
amount. The catch for September
and October, during the peak of the
herring season, is expected to top
these figures by at least 5 percent.

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 20 ---
End of Coalition

Dissolution of the coalition govern-
ment in Bavaria recently prompted
Waldemar von Knoeringen, leader of
the SPD in Bavaria, to state in the
Muenchner Mittag:

“The SPD has loyally fulfilled its
coalition pledges. However, incidents
like those in Frankfurt where Joseph
Mueller, CSU leader, played a star
role in manoeuvering the SPD out
of the Bizonal Economic Council, and
the Eichstaett speech by Minister
President Ehard in which he attacked
the Socialistic idea, make it abund-
antly clear that the newly proclaimed
unity of the CSU will be used for an
increasingly anti-Socialistic course...
The SPD prefers a clear political
attitude to its present situation in a
false coalition ... It will see its
mission during the hard months to
come in preventing the working class
from falling under the influence of
irresponsible elements. It will oppose
every attempt at demagogic agi-
tation ...”

In the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Mu-
nich) editor Goldschagg, a leading
member of the SPD in Bavaria, stated:

“Coalition politics have not at all
been discarded. But the coalition that
existed heretofore has always been
felt to be a Coalition in name only.
One of the partners had the absolute
majority and used it wherever he
regarded it as practical. Through new
elections the SPD will create the
basis for a true coalition ... because
the CSU will hardly return with an
absolute majority.”

Goldschagg expected the SPD to
force dissolution of the Landtag by
means of the “popular recall” that is
provided by the Bavarian consti-
tution.

Suedost Kurier (Bad Reichenhall)
carried two front page editorials by
its two licensees: The one, a Social
Democrat, calls his “At Last! The
Decision of the SPD.” The other, a
CDU member, argues under the title
“The Self-indictment of the SPD” that
the situation within the government

6 OCTOBER 1947

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not
necessarily to give any concur-
rence to their views and opinions.

had not changed since the coalition
was formed, but that the SPD had
chosen this moment to add to the
economic emergency a crisis of the
government. However, the two license-
es agreed that the coalition was a
bed thing to start with and that it
was dissolved by the SPD with a new
election in mind.

Victims of Fascism

The Wiesbadener Kurier declared
that the lack of public interest in
the commemorations for the Victims
of Fascism is an indication of a latent
Nazi spirit and that the masses still
harbor anti-Semitic sentiments. It
quotes one of the Victims of Fascism
speakers:

“While we here lament the lack of
interest in spiritual revival, the
guilty ones sit before their stolen
loudspeakers and listen to my speech
with grins.”

The Kurier continues: “Let us not
deceive ourselves. These neo-anti-
Semites, these opponents of progress
and democracy ... who talk of
another war in order to justify Hitler
prophecics ... have the ear of youth
to a much greater extent than do
the former persecutees ... There are
schools where half-Jewish children
are tormented exactly as formerly...”

Shifting Responsibility

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) said the Germans
are always publicizing their misery

17

everything on two scapeg
general distress and the occupation
power the paper added:

“The Americans frequently have
invited frank criticism. The Germans
then repeat the old song of their
misery, and afterwards they announce
to their neighbors, full of wisdom,
that there is no hope for us... We
must state for the sake of truth that
we would have starved long ago
without American help ... And that
our frequently evident failure is a
German not an American affair. It is
true we need more, much more coal.
But what is happening to the coal
that we have? ... What happens to
the German fruit and food? Who
forces our peasents to get what they
need exclusively by barter? One
could ask any number of those
questions and it is becoming ever
more timely to answer ‘We ourselves,
the dead heads among our leading
men,‘ and not ‘the Americans’ or the
general distress ..."

Ceded Provinces

The Giessener Freie Presse reported
strong reader reaction to a travel
account by an American journalist it
recently published. The American
Teporter found the German Cities in
the provinces ceded to Poland “re-
built by two years of incredibly hard
work” and said “the earth was drench-
ed with Polish sweat.” This des-
cription ran strictly counter to Ger-
man preconceptions about the lost
provinces as “wastes where un-
cultivated fields are crying out for
the return of their old inhabitants.”

The paper then quoted another
American observer about “the ad-
mirable economic upsurge” in Poland
and concluded:

“We understand that the Eastern
refugees see just as red when they
hear the word ‘Poland’ as the Poles
when they hear ‘German.’ This mutual
hatred is the logical result of past
events. But the German who con-
templates the poisoned atmosphere

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
must never forget to repeat the re-
frain that ought to conclude all our
songs of misery about our present
distress: ‘This, too, we owe to our
Fuehrer!"*

“Never Say ‘Never’”

The Fraenkische Landeszeitung
(Ansbach) quoted a round robin from
the “Supreme Committee of the po-
litical organization of the NSDAP,”
dated 27 June 1933. The letter deals
with German writers and journalists
who were silenced by the Nazi gov-
ernment. It says that one of this
“rabble of big pigs, murderers, cor-
tuptionists and foreign agents” had
had the impudence to continue mak-
ing speeches at Berlin, Breslau, Katto-
witz ... However, the “sabotage”
of this man, editor-in-chief W. Wied-
feld, “had now been ended in a rad-
ical manner. Never again will this
gentleman, never again will people of
his type poison the German public.”

Licensee W. Wiedfeld of the Fraen-
Kische Landeszeitung comments: “In
politics, as this case demonstrates,

one never should say ‘never’.’

(Continued from Page 13)

Weather Forecasting

National meteorological services
throughout the world, and _parti-
cularly. in Europe, began taking
steps. to renew international coop-
eration and exchange of obser-
vational data as'soon as the war-time
restrictions were lifted. The last
prewar meeting of the International
Meteorological Organization had-been
held in Berlin in 1939. In February
1946, a conference of directors of na-
tional meteorological services con-
vened in London. The ACA Committee
on Meteorology was represented at
this conference. The meteorologically
strategic location of Germany made
it desirable that this country again
become a cooperating unit of the
international meteorological effort. The
Committee on Meteorology has since
been the representative meteorolo-
gical body in Germany for inter-
national relations in this field.’
Because of the division of Germany
into four Zones of Occupation, it ‘has

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

not been found epportune to recon-
stitute a central German meteoro-
logical service. In. anticipation of the
eventual reconstitution of a national
service, however, the Committee on
Meteorology has provided for the
establishment of zonal organizations
in the four Zones of Occupation.

The German Zonal Meteorological
Organfzation in the US Zone was
established early in 1946, with head-
quarters in Bad Kissingen. During its
early stages the organization was
under the operational supervision of
the 59th Weather Wing of the US
Army Air Weather Service, while
the Meteorological Section of OMGUS
set the policies governing its develop-
ment and operation. In August 1946,
by order of USFET, the operational
responsibility of the organization was
transferred to OMGUS. Thus the
Meteorological Section became the
operational as well as the policy
making body controlling the German
meteorological service in the Us
Zone.

IHE GERMAN Zonal Meteorological

Organization — US Zone is organ-
ized as a German civil agency under
the, Bavarian Ministry of Education
and Culture. It has a Supervisory
Board and an Advisory Board, con-
sisting of members appointed by the
several Ministers President of the four
Laender. Budgetary support is ob-
tained by pro-rata assessment in the
several Laender. The current annual
budget is slightly over 5,000,000
Reichsmarks.

This Zonal organization presently
employs about 550 Germans, It oper-
ates 47 surface synoptic observation
stations, 2 agricultural meteorological
Stations, 3. bioclimatological stations,
136 climatological: stations, 1,237 pre-
cipitation measuring stations, 1,243
phenological stations, 3 .rawinsonde
stations, 3 upperwind measuring sta-
tions, 8 supervisory centers, 2 aviation
meteorological offices and 2 fore-
casting centers.

Collection and dissemination of
meteorological information within the
zone is accomplished hourly by tele-
phone and teletype. The 8 supervisory
centers and the 2 forecasting centers
are connectéd by a teletype net. Each

18

supervisory center collects obser-
vational data, from its dependent
observatories, by telephone: These are
then transmitted over the teletype net
in scheduled sequence. Thus each
supervisory center and each fore-
casting center has available hourly
observational data covering the entire
zone. The supervisory and forecasting
centers also operate radio intercept
stations in order that necessary
reports from other countries in Eu-
rope, and from the Atlantic, may be
available for the analyses.

NE IMPORTANT recent develop-

ment has been the establishment
of meteorological offices at the Tem-
pelhof ‘and Rhine/Main airports, These
important centers provide all neces-
sary weather service for civil airlines
operating in and out of these airports.
Anticipating this development, the
Meteorological Section organized an
intensive training course for German
aviation meteorologists and observers
at Tempelhof. This training extends
to all phases of airline forecasting
and is adjusted to cover recommended
international practices and procedures
with respect to documentation. No
German is assigned to aviation
meteorological work until he has
successfully completed this training
and indoctrination. Each German
aviation meteorological office is
supervised by a field representative
of the Meteorological Section. Addi-
tional aviation meteorological offices
will be established at Munich/Riem
and at Bremen, as required.

Through the 30 months that have
elapsed since the end of the war, a
German meteorological service has
been gradually rehabilitated in the
US Zone of Occupation. It now exists
as a well established German civil
agency, fully serving the economy of
the zone, assisting the occupational
forces as required, already serving
international civil aviation and operat-
ing as an essential unit in inter-
national meteorology. The German
Zonal Meteorological Organization of
the US Zone stands prepared to join
with similar organizations of other
zones when time is opportune for the
re-establishment of a central national
weather service for Germany.

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 22 ---
Industrial Production

NDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION in the

US, Zone of Germany remained on
an even keel during August, con-
tinuing the stability it has displayed
since June when the spring recovery
slowed down, the Economics Division,
OMGUS, reported. The over-all index
declined from 53 percent of the 1936
average in July to 51 percent in
August, but because August has one
less working day the average rate
of output. was about the same.

The stability of industrial pro-
duction reflected the lack of any sub-
stantial change in underlying condi-
tions. Under the stimulus of a new
incentive plan, Ruhr coal output re-
sumed its long-interrupted advance,
rising from an average of 225,000 tons
daily in July to 237,000 tons in August.
Late in August, Ruhr mine output
actually crossed the 240,000-tons-per-
day mark for the first time since the
occupation, but not all the extra coal-
could be distributed promptly to con-
sumption points because of the trans-
port shortage.

Hydro-electric generation declined
by 22 percent because of the severe
and continuing drought in Bavaria.
While the full impact of the power
shortage was averted during August
by an increase in steam-generated
power and a sharp rise in power re-
ceipts from the British Zone, the con-
sequences of this situation are be-
coming increasingly serious.

UTPUT IN THE CERAMICS,

chémicals, stones and earths,
and lumber industries made small
gains, ranging from a fractional in-

crease for stones and earths to a

6 percent rise for lumber—the latter
a reflection of the pressure being put
on the German authorities to com-
plete ‘the: lumber export program.

Output declined substantially in the
fields of machinery (8 percent), elec-
trical equipment (13 percent), leather
(13 percent), optics and precision in-
struments (16 percent), and rubber
(30 percent), The coal and power
shortage was the chief cause of the
drop in most cases, but a high rate
of absenteeism due to the harvest
and a lack of raw materials were
contributing factors.

For example, shoe production is
handicapped by the fact that it is
almost impossible to get textiles re-
quired for linings for even the small
quantity of leather available. The
camera industry throughout the US
Zone is affected by the shutdown,
on account of the power shortage,
of its chief supplier of lenses, the
Rodenstock Werke, of Munich. Auto-
mobile and truck tire production fell
from 40,494 in July to 25,683 in
August, largely because of the short-
age of natural rubber, carbon black
and textile cord. The only notable
gain during the month was in vehicles,
output of which increased 16 percent
over July.

Lumber Given Priority

The German economics authorities
in Minden have been authorized by
the Bipartite Economics Group to
grant highest priority over all other
German needs for the supply of lum-
ber for the railroad repair program.
This priority lasts for a six-week
period.

EXCAVATION of a gravel pit near Regensburg disclosed these articles of the

7th-8th century. They include a two-handed sword, spear points, kitchen
knives, a stamped mug, a girdle buckle, gold coins and a razor. The excavation
also uncovered several skeletons. (DENA Bild)

6 OCTOBER 1947

19

‘Directive Covers

Change of Residence

HANGE -OF RESIDENCE | Bet-:

ween Zones" is covered in
OMGUS directive, AG 014.34 of
12 September 1947. It states that
Control Council directive No. 43 for-
bids persons to change residence in-
volving interzonal travel without the
permission of the military govern-
ments of both zones affected. MGR
Title 9, in implementing this directive,
states:

No interzonal travel into or out of
the US Zone for the purpose of effect-
ing a permanent change of place of
residence will be permitted unless:
(a) the individual's interzonal move-
ment is being effected under the super-
vision of the Combined Repatriation
Executive; or (b) the change of resi-
dence has been formally approved by
the appropriate local German author-
ities and MG authorities of both
localities effected.

Prior to the dissemination of this
directive, persons were legally en-,
tering the US Zone through refugee
exchange points with housing permits
issued by US Zone local mayors or
tefugee offices at the Land level.
Others were evading border control
and entering illegally.

IAISON AND SECURITY officers

can, under OMGUS interpretation,
consider applications for housing per-
mits involving interzonal travel when
the applications for such permits are
limited to members of families seeking
to join principal breadwinner rela-
tives legally residing in the locality.
Furthermore, liaison and_ security
officers by irregular spot checks in
local communities can ascertain
whether mayors or higher levels of
German administration are issuing
housing permits without the approval
of Military Government.

In considering a Laenderrat pro-
posal concerning the granting of hous-
ing permits, OMGUS amended sub-
paragraph b of MGR Title 9-1147 to
read:

“The change of residence has been
formally approved by the appropriate
Military Government and German
authorities of the US Zone and by
Military Government of the other
zone affected.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 71, Hq EUCOM,
22 August 1947, Visits by Fiancees
to Germany.

Maintenance Memo No. 6, Hq
EUCOM, 25 August 1947, Section
I-General; Section II-Ordnance; Sec-
tion III-Engineer; Section VI-Quarter-
master and Section V-Signal.

Official Travel-War Department
Civilian Employees, AG 230. 42 GPA-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 27 August 1947.
Cites regulations governing all travel.

Reduction of the Load Place on the
German Civil Communications System
by the Occupational Forces, AG 311
(IA), OMGUS, 28 August 1947.

Military Post and Sub-Post Strength
and Quarters Report, AG 320. 2 GPA-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 28 August 1947.
States this report will bear Reports
Control Symbol ECGPA-43 and will
be submitted on the 15th of each
month,

Circular No. 77, Hq EUCOM,
31 August 1947. Section I-Veterinary
Treatment of Privately Owned Anim-
als and Section II-Table of Clothing
and Equipment Allowances for the
European Command.

Military Government - Germany-
Ordinance No.17, “Prohibited Trans-
actions and Activities,” OMGUS,
2 September 1947,

Implementation of CEM Decisions
Regarding United Nations Displaced
Persons, AG 383.7 (SS), OMGUS,
9 September 1947,

Procedure for Procuring Military
Exit Permits for German Businessmen,
AG 014,331 (ED), OMGUS, 9 Sep-
tember 1947.

Control Council Law No. 58,
Supplement to Appendix to Control
Council Law No. 2 Providing for the
Termination and Liquidation of Nazi
Organizations, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS,
10 September 1947,

Fiscal Station Code, AG 130 BED-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 11 September 1947.
Gives an additional Fiscal Station
number as of 1 July 1947, Finance
Office, US Army, Paris, France (9042
Technical Service Unit), APO 58°.
Code Number 1035, *Mailing address
in Zone of Interior: Paris, France,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

c/o Inteligence Division WDGS, Room
2C-800, The Pentagon, Washington
(25), D.C.

Change of Residence Between Zones
(MGR 9-1147), AG 014.34 (PW),
OMGUS, 12 September 1947. Refers
to subparagraph b. of MGR 9-1147
22 May 1947, as amended to read
“the change of residence has been
formally approved by the appropriate
Military Government and German
authorities of the US Zone and by
Military Government of the other
zones affected.”

Circular No. 78, Hq EUCOM,
12 Septebmer 1947, Section I-Allow-
ances of Organizational Special Winter
Clothing; Section II-Fitting of Cloth-
ing; Section III-Special Service Lib-
rary and Section IV-Recissions,

Evacuation of Patients, MCH-
370.05-hosp, Hq EUCOM, 16 Sep-
tember 1947. Gives a list of dispens-
aries showing the hospitals where
patients will be evacuated,

Educational Training for Negro
Guard Companies, AG 352 GOT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 18 September 1947. Cites
governing provisions.

Changes No. 10, Sales Commissary
Operation, Hq EUCOM, 18 Sep-
tember 1947. Refers to delinquent
sales accounts report to be submitted
by the 21st of each month by TWX
and states it will bear “Reports Con-
trol Symbol ECFIN 23.”

Advance Notice of Amendment to
Title 21-Procedure for the Retention
or Taking of Property Control Custody
of Certain Properties Operated or
Required for Operation by News-
paper Licensees of the Information
Control Division, AG 601 (IC), OMGUS,
20 September 1947. Rescinds OMGUS
letter, AG 386 (IC), 1 April 1947 and
cites procedure to be followed until
further notice.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

20

General Orders No. 72, OMGUS,
20 September 1947. Announces the
appointment, effective 22 September
1947, of Lt Col H Smith, as Associate
Secretary General, Office of the
Secretary General, OMGUS, and of
the appointment of Mr. James E King
as Staff Secretary, Office of the Staff
Secretary, OMGUS,

General Orders No. 73, OMGUS,
24 September 1947, states that Colonel
John C Arrowsmith, will be Acting
Personnel Officer, OMGUS, during the
temporary absence of Colonel James
T Duke.

General License No.9 Issued Pur-
suant to Military Government Law
No. 52, also known as General License
No, 2 Issued Pursuant to Military
Government Law No. 53, Authorizing
for Settlement Purposes, Transfers of
Property Blocked under Military
Government Laws No. 52 and 53,
AG 0106 (FD), OMGUS, 24 Sep-
tember 1947,

Mail Service Extended

An extension of the categories of
mail permitted in the international
Postal service for Germany to include
commercial papers and samples at
double the Preoccupation postage
rates, effective 15 September, was
approved by the Allied Control
Authority.

Commercial papers are defined as
all papers and documents, which do
not have the character of actual per-
sonal correspondence, including legal
and business papers, music, and other
manuscripts. These papers must be
transmitted unsealed and are limited
in weight to 4 pounds 6 ounces. The
length, breadth, and thickness com-
bined is limited to 36 inches with the
greatest length of 24 inches,

Samples of merchandise must be
transmitted in unsealed bags, boxes
or removable envelopes. Maximum
length, breadth, and thickness must
not exceed 36 inches and the greatest
permissable length is 24 inches.
Weight is limited to 18 ounces.

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 24 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

STATION LIST

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Lucius D. Clay
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

Hq & Sv Co

“LK Aalen

“LK Backnang

*LK Boeblingen

“LK Crailsheim

*LK Esslingen

“LK Goeppingen

“LK Heidenheim
*SK/LK Heilbronn
“LK Kuenzelsau

*LK Leonberg

“LK Ludwigsburg

“LK Mergentheim
“LK Nuertigen

*LK Oehringen

“LK Schwaebisch-Gmuend
“LK Schwaebisch-Hall
*SK Stuttgart

*SK/LK Ulm

“LK Vaihingen

“LK Waiblingen

*LK Bruchsal

*LK Buchen

*SK/LK Heidelberg
*SK/LK Karlsruhe
*SK/LK Mannheim

*LK Mosbach

*SK/LK Pforzheim

“LK Sinsheim

“LK Tauberbischofsheim

Office of Mil Gov for
Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
*LK Alsfeld

“LK Bergstrasse

“LK Biedenkopf

*LK Buedingen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

‘Wuerttemberg Area

Aalen

Backnang
Boeblingen
Crailsheim
Esslingen
Goeppingen
Heidenheim
Heilbronn
Kuenzelsau
Leonberg
Ludwigsburg
Mergentheim
Nuertingen
Oehringen
Schwaebisch-Gmuend
Schwaebisch-Hall
Stuttgart

Ulm

Vaihingen
Waiblingen

Baden Area
Bruchsal
Buchen
Heidelberg
Karlsruhe
Mannheim
Mosbach
Pforzheim
Sinsheim
Tauberbischofsheim

LAND HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Alsfeld
Heppenheim
Biedenkopf
Buedingen

Maj Gen George P Hays
Deputy Mil Gov

Brig Gen William Hesketh
Asst to Deputy Mil Gov

Lt Col Morris O Edwards
(Acting)

Lt Col Hugh Mair
ist Lt H McCallion

Maj C A Pallette
Capt R Forrest
Capt M P Ernst
Capt R C Lawton
Capt N Semaschko Jr
Lt Col A G Spitz
Maj LH Kyle

Lt Col CH J West
Capt T E Griswold
Capt S P Giunta
Capt E P Oja
Capt B V Bloom
Maj J F Capell
Capt G H Caple
Maj R Lascoe
Maj S A Warren
Lt Col I L Harlow
Maj M L Hoover
Capt R Urbach
Maj F A Hubbard

Capt R C Stenson
Capt C H Wright
Lt Col J A Lynch
Maj C S Keena

Lt Col CH H Rue
Capt J Zecca

Maj R_H Stimson
Capt C W Matthews
Capt N W Barber

Dr J R Newman ‘

Lt Col S S Graham
Ist Lt P J Weiss
Capt S A Karas

Maj A R Gill

Capt W L Culbertson
Capt G P Johnson

6 OCTOBER 1947

21

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Dieburg

“LK Dill

“LK Erbach

“LK Eschwege
“LK Frankenberg
“SK Frankfurt
*LK Friedberg
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*SK/LK Fulda
“LK Gelnhausen
SK/LK Giessen
*LK Gross Gerau
SK/LK: Hanau
“LK Hersfeld

*LK Hofgeismar
“LK Huenfeld
*SK/LK Kassel
“LK Lauterbach
“LK Limburg

*LK Main-Taunus
*SK/LK Marburg
“LK Melsungen
“LK Oberlahn
“LK Obertaunus
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Rheingau
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Schluechtern
“LK Usingen

“LK Untertaunus
“LK Waldeck

“LK Wetzlar

“SK Wiesbaden
“LK Witzenhausen
“LK Wolfhagen
“LK Ziegenhain

Office of Mil Gov for
Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Gov Regt
Hq & Sv Company

*A-210 SK/LK Wuerzburg
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Bad Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen
*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Brueckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemuenden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*A-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt

*A-339 LK Koenigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Darmstadt
Dieburg
Dillenburg
Erbach
Eschwege
Frankenberg
Frankfurt
Friedberg
Fritzlar
Fulda
Gelnhausen
Giessen
Gross Gerau
Hanau
Hersfeld
Hofgeismar
Huenfeld
Kassel
Lauterbach
Limburg
Hofheim
Marburg
Melsungen
Weilburg
Bad Homburg
Offenbach
Ruedesheim
Rotenburg
Schluechtern
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Korbach
Wetzlar
Wiesbaden
Witzenhausen
Wolfhagen
Ziegenhain

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Rgt (APO 407)

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wuerzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Brueckenau
Ebern
Gemuenden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Koenigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfe'd
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt (Saale)
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Lt Col J C Rose
Capt M S Clark
Maj L_H Brown
Capt E H Jackson
Maj E J Hart

Maj L S Williams
Maj G C Sola
Maj P E Perry

Maj W C Gipple

Lt Col J K Schmidt
Capt C D Fexy
Maj G R Moore
Capt W N Condon
Lt Col C H Reed
Maj John Connelly
Maj W Baymor
Capt W G Westbrook Jr
Lt Col G J Albrecht
Capt C R Argo
Capt J S Chapin
Maj J C Nelson

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj A C Bergis

Lt Col M A Meacham
Maj C A Vollrath
Maj W R Sheehan
Capt W L Young
Capt S Kershaw
Capt O F Howard
Capt J N Francis
Maj M E Chotas
Maj D J Heffernan
Maj C F Russe

Col C H Boucher
Maj B L Bassinor
Capt V K Ledbetten
Capt T W Harris

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Lt Col J W Bender

Lt Col M W Crouse

Lt Col W R Bepze

Maj J E Breland

Maj E H Emry

Maj R C Jernigin

Capt Stuart E Witty
Capt Thaddeus E Klemens
Capt Shale L Tulin

Capt John H Bowser
Capt Harry W Wyre
Maj R J Ho!mes

Capt Harold P Rice

Ist Lt Richard P Mellman
Capt R F. Hellmig

Capt Henry D Benthley
Capt Walyne A Farrington
Maj John F Sullivan
Maj A C McIntyre

Capt Herbert D Hart
Capt H A McCurdy
Capt J O Barnett

Maj E C Wimberly

‘WEEKLY. INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

6 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 26 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nuernberg
*B-222 SK/LK Bamberg
*B-223 SKIEK Bayreuth
*B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 SK/LK Coburg
*B-226 LK Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Fuerth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
LK Staffe'stein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hoechstadt (Aich)
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz
*B-256 LK Muenchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuehl
*B-262 LK Eichstaett
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
“B-272 LK Lauf
*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila
*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Ansbach
Nuernberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Fuerth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hoechstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Muenchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuehl
Eichstaett
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf

Neustadt (Aisch)
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Col E M Haight

Lt Col J C Barnet

Lt Col Richard D Smith
Maj Luther D Arnold
Lt Col J A Thompson
Maj Sanford P Sussel
Capt A J Pippen

Maj F Meszar

Lt Col Robert Herbison
Lt Col R R Reed

Maj T B Stuart

Capt Evert Nolton.
Capt Hula B Moorfield
Maj Ralph A Kerley
1st Lt J H. Pheeters
Maj T Cleary

Maj R C Anderson
Capt G Hultzen
Capt F J Cramer
Maj John J Posten
Capt R Julien

Capt N C Petty
Capt L W Edgar
Capt Joseph E Stavor
Capt A A Gunter
Maj C W Collier
1st Lt F L Roessler’
Maj H T Lund

Maj C J Cody

ist Lt L J Pickrel
Maj F C Smith

Capt G B Jones
Capt J H Campbell
Maj F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D
*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg
*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
(Wald)
*D-243 SK/LK Passau
*D-244 SK/LK Amberg
*D-245 SK/LK Landshut
*D-246 SK/LK Straubing
*D-274 LK Cham
*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld
*D-276 LK Parsberg
*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth
*D-278 LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*D-279 LK Eschenbach
*D-301 LK Deggendorf
*D-302 LK Eggenfelden
*D-303 LK Grafenau
*D-304 LK Kelheim
*D-305 LK Landau (Isar)
*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen
*D-307 LK Regen
*D-308 LK Vilshofen
*D-309 LK Vilsbiburg
*D-310 LK Wolfstein
*D-349 LK Kemnath
*D-350 LK Nabburg
*D-351 LK Oberviechtach
*D-352 LK Riedenberg
*D-353 LK Vohenstrauss
*D-354 LK Roding
*D-355 LK Waidmuenchen
*D-356 LK Beilngries

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau -
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zwiesel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding .
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries :

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj J F Ray

Maj C G Doyle

Maj J Mullholland
Maj J G Shackelford
Maj R E Boyd

Maj E O Carlson
Capt I R Mariels
Capt E C Phillips
Maj R W Hitchcock
Capt E A McNamara
Maj S Kommel

Maj E Fitcher

Maj J J Maher
Capt M Glossop

ist Lt D F Razynski
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickham
Capt K K Miller
Lt Col G M Foster
Capt G H- Segur
Maj R E Levy

Capt R N McWhorter
Maj V M Corbin
Capt T J Hansen
Maj H A Hardt

Capt M C Gibbons
Maj B B Coul’ahan
Maj L P Rhodes
Capt R W Bussington
Maj R O Woodward

6 OCTOBER 1947

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*D-357 LK Neumarkt (Opf.)
*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*D-375 LK Bogen

*D-377 LK Dingolfing
*D-378 LK Griesbach
*D-379 LK Koetzting
*D-380 LK Mainburg

*D-381 LK Mallersdorf
*D-382 LK Rottenburg
*D-383 LK Viechtach
*D-385 LK Wegscheid

Co B

*E-213 SK/LK Munich
°E-231 SK/LK Freising
*E-232 LK Miesbach
*E-233 LK Traunstein
*E-234 LK Altoetting
*E-235 SK/LK Rosenheim
*E-236 LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt
*E-280 LK Erding

*E-281 LK Laufen.

*E-282 LK Muehldorf.
*E-283 LK Wasserburg
*E-284 LK Toelz

*E-285 LK Aibling

*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*E-287 LK Landsberg
*E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 LK Starnberg
*E-290 LK Weilheim
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden
*E-361 LK Ebersberg
*E-362 LK Aichach

*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-367 Dachau

*E-368 Schongau

*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg
*G-239 LK Dillingen

*G-240 LK Neu-Ulm

*G-241 LK Sonthofen
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth
*G-293 LK Guenzberg
*G-294 LK Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 LK Memmingen
*G-296 LK Mindelheim
*G-297 LK Neuberg

*G-298 LK Noerdlingen
*G-299 LK Fuessen

*G-300 LK Krumbach
*G-369 LK Ilertissen
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren
*G-372 LK Wertingen
*G-373 LK Friedberg
*G-374 LK Schwabmuenchen

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen .
Bremerhaven Detachement

Office of Mil Gov ©
Berlin Sector

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Neumarkt

Sulzbach-Rosenburg

Bogen

Dingolfing
Griesbach
Koetzting

Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Garmisch
Ingolstadt
Erding

Laufen
Muehldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz

Bad Aibling
Fuerstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Dillingen .
Neu-Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwoerth
Guenzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Fuessen
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Noerdlingen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmuenchen

LAND BREMEN (APO 751)

Bremen
Bremerhaven

BERLIN SECTOR (APO 742-A)

Berlin

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Capt R W Ziegler
Capt V D Dygert
Maj G J Spellman
Maj W J Pugh
Capt C G Dansby
Capt L O Thibodeau
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones
Capt J T Clegg
ist Lt H L Oerter
Capt N Ugland

Lt Col R J Philipote
Lt Col J H Kelly
Maj V L Thom
Capt W A Forys
Capt C W Larimer
Maj D S Root

Lt Col S R Place

Lt Col R T Shelby
Lt Col J A Crewe
Capt G D Jacobson
Capt T Eshleman
Maj M E Hough
Maj L R Day

Maj A O Froede
Maj W Williams
Capt L R Shelton
Maj K B Cassidy
Maj H E Reed

Capt B B Posey
Maj C A Brown
Maj T A Christophil
Maj W W Perham
Maj C A Rein

Capt A T Kutauskas
Capt Jesse L Ott
Ist Lt J A Walker
Maj A J Le Fevre

Lt Col J R Hector

Lt H F Fenzel

Capt D C Dunn

Capt J N Urtes

Maj H E Howlett

Maj H M Sebastian
Maj A C Yokss

Capt S D Lubin

Ist Lt C O Shell

Maj Geo Matthews Jr
Maj S J Mangimelli
Capt R H Knowles
Capt J A Morris
Capt H W Worthington
1st Lt J Christian
Maj M G Norum

Ist Lt E G Conner
Capt D J Moran
Capt G H Waters

Mr T F Dunn
Lt Col Alfred L Haig

Mr F L Howley

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF