--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 111 / 22 SEPTEMBER 1947

RETURNING PW's

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG
ROTEN BURG

OBER ©
LAHNKREIS

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG
10"
BERGSTRASSE
\TAUBER BISCH —
OFSHEIM

=
ts

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

RETURNING PW’'s, recently arrived at the
processing camp in Ulm, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, trom the east, look over posters put
up by anxious relatives to see if they can
give any clues to the fate of missing former
Wehrmacht soldiers. Fhe- operations at the
German-conducted camp are detailed in the
article on page 11. (Photo by Army Signal

oe INFORMATION

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Material and pictures for the article on
Hessian Exports were furnished by the Public T ABLE OF CONTENTS
information Division, Office of Military

Government for Hesse.
Issue No. 111 22 September 1947
German Fishing Fleets was developed ;

from material assembled by personnel of the

Food and Agriculture Branch, Economics Hessian Exports . i ~ see ee NS
Division, OMGUS, The illustrations were Cc on
fnrnished by Lt, Col. Harold E. Benson, US erman Fishing Fleets. . . . . 2... + +s 5
chairman of the Bipartite Fisheries Group. High MG Appointments Made. . ....... #7
The Returning PW’s report on the German Aims of New Industry Plan . i 8
Prisoners-of-War reception camp at Ulm was G R 7
Giiiished by the Public Wellace Branch: erman..Reactions: «= ~« « jens: Ge mw 2 « wols : 9
interior Division, Office of Military Gov- Plan for Ruhr Coal Control: 2s. «.< =. Soe 10
eeoment for Wuerttemberg-Baden, Returning PW's:.. . . - +08) Woks 2 Ta ea
Press and Radio. Comment. . . . 4 3 . «s » 18
Official Instructiong. « 6 4 3 4 se . 4% 2 ge 18

NEXT WEEK

The potential value of exports from the
Combined US/UK Area will be told in an
article on the Hanover Export Fair. Other
articles will deal with General Halder's
diary, labor union leaders, and day care
centers. A series on the overall picture os
and agriculture is also scheduled to OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
n in the next issue. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
ss

Photos from PIO, OMGH

(Upper left) Signing of the first con-
tract for export of silverware from
the US Zone by representatives of a
Hessian manufacturer and a Chicago
importer. (upper right) Hessian tech-
nician assembling a camera in a
Frankfurt plant. (middle left) Loading
cement destined for the Netherlands

on a Rhine barge at the Dyckerhoff

plant near Wiesbaden. (middle right)

Drawing oil off a barge for use in
firing drying kilns of the Dyckerhoft
works. (lower left) Samples of Offen-
bach's top-quality leather goods.
(lower right) Craftsman putting the
finishing touches to a lady's leather

hat box earmarked for export.

--- Page 6 ---
HESSIAN
EXPORTS

SSE is a highly industrialized

land, principally engaged in the
production of manufactured goods,
whose consumer items, in the days
before the war, were eagerly sought
on the markets of the world. Home
of the Leica camera, Offenbach leather-
ware, and Rhine wine, Hessian pro-
ducts were once found in shops from
Singapore around the world to
Sydney.

Today the ingenuity that had made
these commodities household bywords
still exists, but the compact factories
located along the Rhine and in the
picturesque Taunus mountains are
critically short in raw materials and
fuel. In bygone years Hesse exported
for profit; today she must export in
order to live, to pay for the foodstuffs
which are being imported to maintain
life.

The problem of utilizing plant capac-
ities, production experience and
facilities without benefit of the needed
material components was the problem
which faced the Trade and Commerce
Branch, Economics Division, OMG for
Hesse. The fact that during August
of this year Hesse contracted to
export commodities totaling almost
eleven and one-half million dollars
to 23 countries is evidence that the
land has partially succeeded in solving
these problems.

IMENT, paper pulp, and rayon

yarn led the list of items, while
cameras and other optical goods,
leatherware, wine, automobile parts,
and potassium products were ordered
in large amounts,

Tunis bought microscope accesso-
ries, India wanted dyestuffs, and
Venezuela contracted for cameras.
English contracts were for cement and
chemicals, Switzerland ordered a-
large quantity of Offenbach's famed
leather goods, and the United States
Purchased thousands of bottles of
Rhine wine. From Malta, Australia,
Egypt, South Africa, South America,

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

the Scandinavian peninsula, Canada,
and most of the continental countries
came contracts ranging from bulky
bags of cement to compact vials of
chemicals, Hesse was again in the
export business,

FEATURE of many of the contracts

is the provision that the buyer will
provide either fuel or raw materials,
in line with a plan adopted by the
OMGH Trade and Commerce Branch
to help solve the shortages problem.
In executing the largest single con-
tract — more than four million dollars
for the processing of rayon yarn, the
purchaser supplied not only the pulp,
but all the companion materials. Hesse
supplied the plant and the technical
knowledge.

Cement provided perhaps the best
example of a conversion made to
meet the needs of this new plan.
Located on the banks of the Rhine
near Wiesbaden, the sprawling
Dyckerhoff cement works is produc-
ing thousands of tons of cement for
export by virtue of such buyer assist-
ance agreements,

Dyckerhoff, which is the largest
producer of Portland cement in western
Europe, early in July completed con-
version of plant facilities which permit
the burning of either fuel oil or coal
in its drying kilns, in an effort to
avoid a recurrence of winter shut-
downs caused by lack of coal. As a
result, a $ 777,600 contract with the
Netherlands and a $ 500,000 agreement,
with England have been concluded,
with fuel oil and packaging material
supplied in both instances by the
buyers. The 144,000 tons Netherland
cement order calls for the shipment
of 36,000 tons of oil and a large quan-
tity of paper bags down the Rhine to
the Wiesbaden plant, while the
English purchaser who has negotiated
for 100,000 tons of Dyckerhoff's high-
quality product, will furnish pulp for
the manufacture of cement containers
as well as sufficient fuel-oil to com-
plete the contract.

3

Total Bizonal Exports

A total of $80,688,849.42 worth
of export contracts have been
signed by firms in the Combined
US/UK Area of Germany during
the eight month period ending on
31 August, the Joint Export-
Import Agency announced. The
figure does not include coal,
timber, and “invisibles" such as
transit and rail charges.

Close to $30,000,000, or more
than a third, out of the eight-
months’ total, represents contracts
concluded during the month of
August alone. The US Zone
accounted for $19,631,038.71 and
the British Zone for $10,335,456.57
of the August contracts.

Export deliveries including
coal, timber and invisibles during
the eight month period totaled
$107,195,146.58 in value, of which
$ 18,388,739.84 worth of export
products were delivered during
August.

SSIAN MG trade and commerce

officials consider the revitalizing
of Dyckerhoffs extremely important,
not only from the export point of
view, but also from the standpoint of
continental reconstruction. “An un-
interrupted flow of cement to war-
torn countries is vital to the recovery
of Europe," they say, adding that the
contracts are also significant in that
they show German industry's versatil-
ity in finding the means to produce
without utilizing critically short
materials — in this case, coal.

The Dyckerhoff works, which had
a peacetime capacity of 800,000 tons
of cement a year, is expected by
plant officials to be able to produce
up to 600,000 tons during the next
twelve months, solely through the
use of imported oil.

NOTHER important contribution

to the success of the Hessian
export program is being made by the
leather industry centers of Landkreis
Offenbach where 400 factories are
devoted to the manufacture of leather
goods. Ladies’ handbags, suitcases,
briefcases, wallets, jewelry boxes,
manicure, sewing and dressing cases,
and a variety of other leather items

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
have been sold to countries long
acquainted with the quality of the
products fashioned by Hesse’s Main
River craftsmen. Moderately-priced
Offenbach wares were sold princi-
pally on European markets before the
war, while the most expensive articles
were featured in Fifth Avenue and
West Coast luxury shops.

In order to bolster dwindling raw
leather stocks, a sizeable portion of
the contracts signed thus far have
been for the manufacture of leather
goods from hides furnished by foreign
firms. In such cases a portion of the
hides are kept as part payment for
the services performed.

No shoes are included in leather
goods export plan, since all footwear
production is required for present
German needs. In addition, the manu-
facture of artificial leather and fish-
skin articles, OMGH trade and com-
merce officials explain, has helped to
counterbalance the loss of genuine
leather items to the German economy.

Hessian leather contracts executed
since February of this year have
amounted to $344,610 in value and
are expected to provide the impetus
which will result in the reviving of
a leather export business which
amounted to 300 million marks in 1938.

ERHAPS the most widely publi-

cized of Hesse’s postwar exports is
the Leica camera, produced together
with binoculars, microscopes, and
accessory lenses in the Leitz plant at
Wetzlar. Continuous improvements,
carried on with the resumption of
manufacture after the war, has made
the Pioneer Candid 35 millimeter outfit
one of the world’s most sought-after
cameras. More than one and one-half
million dollars in optical products,
principally Leicas, have been sold by
Hesse during the past seven months
to buyer nations all over the world.

Five hundred Opel Olympia pas-
senger cars, to be produced at
Ruesselsheim, near Frankfurt, have
been earmarked for export to auto-
mobile hungry countries as another
Hessian contribution to the bizonal
export program. Manufacture of the
two-door, four cylinder vehicle is not
expected to get underway until mid-
October, when it is believed that
approximately 15 cars a day will be

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

turned out, with a gradual increase
to capacity production of 50 units a
day. The Ruesselsheim plant is pre-
sently engaged in the manufacture of
Opel “Blitz” 11/s ton cargo trucks.
300 of which were produced during
June for the German economy.

A hand-made pilot model of the
“Olympia” was hailed last 21 February
as the first passenger automobile
produced in the US Zone since the
end of the war. The automobile, which
can cover about 30 miles on a gallon
of gasoline, is equipped with four
forward speeds and one reverse gear.

PEL IS also scheduled to produce

$500,000 worth of automobile
spare parts for the General Motors
Overseas Corporation, which will
distribute them to Sweden, Switzer-
land, Belgium, Holland, and Denmark
under terms of this initial contract.

OMGH Trade and Commerce Branch
anticipates a large volume of orders
for parts, vital to the overhauling of
travel-worn Opels throughout Europe,
during the first 12 months of the
resumption of the distribution service.
Thereafter, a leveling off of sales is
expected, enabling the building up of
a small stockpile of parts. Buyer assist-
ance will be insisted upon wherever
feasible.

Commenting on the postwar resump-
tion of German manufacturing, the
Trade and Commerce Branch of OMGH
points out that the cessation of
hostilities has brought an influx of
new ideas and techniques to Hessian
factories; techniques that mean newer,
faster, and more modern methods of
production, and which have stimu-
lated industry as a whole and enabled
an effective export trade to be built
up.

Dr. James R. Newman, director of
OMG for Hesse, calls attention to the
fact that the dollars paid for Hessian
services and commodities will help
to pay for the great amounts of food
imported into Germany from the
United States. “At tne same time,”
he says, “Hessian Industry has been
greatly stimulated by this record-
shattering export contract volume.
Plant capacity is being more fully
utilized, productive efficiency is being
increased, and producers are seeing
the concrete results of their efforts."

4

Guided Tours in Zone

The plan for 10-day guided tours of
the US Zone by Allied and neutral
nationals is detailed by the Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, and the
American Express Company, Inc.,
which is handling all arrangements

Tours are to include Paris—Frank-
furt and return, and are to cost $274
per person for all expenses incurred,
including train fare within France and
bus transportation inside Germany.
Stops are to be made in Frankfurt,
Wiesbaden, Rothenburg, Nuremberg,
Munich, Oberammergau, and Heidel-
berg.

The tours are so arranged as to
avoid placing a strain on Army facili-
ties, which are already taxed to
capacity. Approximately 24 persons
are to be accommodated in each
party. The first tours are to leave Paris
on 15 and 29 September, and 13 and
27 October. Food is to be provided
from Army stocks.

Postal Rates Reduced

A reduction, effective 15 September,
in German postage rates for all
authorized international postal serv-
ices from treble to double the
preoccupation rates, was announced
by the Communications Branch, [A&C
Division, OMGUS. Under the quadri-
partite agreement, the question of the
gold-franc equivalent to the mark
will not be prejudiced by this action,
and all international rates must be
Teviewed at such time as an agreed
equivalent is established by the
Allied Control Authority.

Music-Copying Caption

In connection with the article
“Inter-Allied Music Library” in Issue
No. 105 of 11 August, the caption on
the second illustration was not suffi-
ciently specific to explain that the
young woman was making a copy of
the non-copyright Mozart Serenade.

In accordance with international
copyright laws, copying of copyright
music is only authorized by special
permission of the original publisher
who holds the copyright.

The article also specifically stated,
“Music copyright laws are fully re-
spected in Germany."

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 8 ---
The first. postwar trawler arriving in
Wesermuende on 2 August 1945.

N 19 July 1945, two trawlers,

supplied with coal scraped up
from 24 different vessels in the harbor
of Wesermuende, sailed for the North
Sea fishing grounds. This was the
small beginning of fish production in
post-war Germany.

Today there are operating out of
the port of Wesermuende 70 fishing
trawlers, 35 herring luggers, and 48
coastal and deep-sea cutters, whose
production varies from 500 to 3,500
tons a week, depending upon fisher-
men's luck, weather conditions, and
coal and ice supplies.

Military Government, which super-
vises the German fishing ports of
Wesermuende, Bremerhaven, and
Bremen-Vegesack, has been engaged
since the early summer of 1945 in
carrying forward policies and proce-
dures for rehabilitating the German
fishing fleets, agencies for distribution

(Left) Traw! net about to dump its

haul of fish on the deck. (Right) Dry

docks in Wesermuende for repairing
fishing craft.

_

of sea food, and necessary processing
plants. Plans which were first formu-
lated in France and_ successfully
followed in the restoration of fishing
in France, Holland, and Belgium, were
adapted to the conditions prevailing
in Germany.

The Food and Agriculture Branch
of Military Government has had as
one of its principal aim the rapid
increase of the production of salt-
water fishing and its equitable distri-
bution throughout the US Zone.

HE FISHING port of Wesermuende

was the largest fresh fish landing
port in Germany before 1939, but there
remained in port at the time of capit-
ulation only 24 small, old fishing
trawlers and some 25 or 30 cutters
of a prewar trawler fleet of
217 trawlers and approximately
100 fishing cutters. There was only
one herring drifter in the port of
Bremen-Vegesack out of a prewar
fleet of 66. The first endeavor of the
MG fishery control officers was to
locate and return to home ports all
fishing vessels not destroyed during
the war, which had been requisitioned
by the German Navy for mine-
sweeping and other war uses.

In the warehouses in Wesermuende
some 2,000 tons of frozen an salted
fesh stocks were located and their
distribution controlled. These first
supplies were not sufficient to permit
establishing any fixed quantity of
fish for each consumer. It was not
until January 1946 that regular
scheduled shipments to the three
Laender of the American Zone were
made for distribution on an established
ration scale basis. From July 1945
until 31 December 1945 the landings
totaled 14,815 tons of fish, and the
fishing fleet had doubled in size from
20 trawlers to 40 operating trawlers.

The development of the fleet and
increase in production of fish by
half yearly periods is shown in the
following table:

Fleet White Fish Herring
from—to short tons short tons

AG6—58 28,275.288 1,324.519
58—65 19,969.088 42,181,726
66—68 32,312.936 283.210
69—71 9,318.147 14,987,898

Jan. to Jun, 1946
July to Dec. 1946
Jan. to Jun. 1947
July to Aug. 1947

NLY NEARBY fishing grounds
were open to German fishing
vessels in 1945 owing to extensive
minefields and the necessity for naval

--- Page 9 ---
agreement for navigation of German
vessels in more distant waters. As
the North Sea minefields were swept,
the fishing grounds were enlarged and
only a few areas are now prohibited
for fishing. The most productive
grounds for whité fish are in the
vicinity of Iceland, Bear Island, and
in the Barents Sea, but only the larger
trawlers are capable of carrying suffi-
cient coal or a large enough cargo
of fish to make such long journeys
possible.

The herring fishing grounds vary
according to the season, but usually
commence off the northern coast of
Scotland in the latter part of June and
follow down the eastern coast of the
British Isles, finishing up in October
in the eastern entrance through the
English Channel. The smaller trawlers
and deep-sea cutters are restricted by
their size and fuel capacity to the
coastal waters of Germany and
Denmark and the eastern portion of
the North Sea. These factors might
explain the professed interest of
German fishermen in the design of
fishing craft that can be most
efficiently used in water 1,200 to
1,500 miles from their home ports.

Problems encountered in securing
supplies for operation of the fishing
vessels and the processing industry
showed that coordination of planning
and supply allocations with the
fishing fleet operating out of ports in
the British Zone was absolutely
necessary.

ONFERENCES between Food and

Agriculture officials of the Us
and British Zones during October to
December 1945 resulted in the for-
mation in January 1946 of a Joint
Fishery Control Board with offices
in Hamburg. Since that time all efforts
have been directed toward a bizonal
control of salt water fishing.

A central German agency was
created and was incorporated into the
Bizonal Executive Committee for
Food & Agriculture, when that was
established in Stuttgart. This organi-
zation consists of a specialist (Referat)
for fisheries and a head control office,
having offices in Hamburg and with
subordinate offices in the main
fishing ports of Hamburg, Cuxhaven,
and Wesermuende. This organization
exercises supervision and control of

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

all branches of the salt water fishing
industry up to the point of delivery
of the fish to the distributors in the

various Laender. The distribution to
retail dealers and individual con-
sumers is under the control of
Land food & rationing offices. This
control organization has developed
slowly, and has been coordinated
with the development of production
and rationing control on _ other
indigenous food products.

ISH HAS always been a popular

food in Germany, although its
distribution never was equalized to
the same extent as bread, potatoes,
and meat. Some areas consumed fish
more willingly than others in the
days of free markets, and even under
rationing control the food habits of
the population received some con-
sideration. Equal distribution of fish
is also limited by its perishability and
the necessity for refrigeration in
transport and storage of all fresh fish,
and special storage facilities for
salted, dried, or canned fish. All of
these factors make it desirable that
a central control be exercised over all
branches of the production, pro-
cessing, and wholesale distribution
of fish.

The distribution of either fresh or
processed fish in the three southern
Laender is dependent upon the
efficiency of the rail transportation
facilities. Special insulated cars built
only for fish had been developed
efficiently in Germany before the war.
During periods of large landings of
fresh white fish special trains were
dispatched from Bremerhaven to I
parts of Germany or special cars were
attached to fast passenger trains, so
that fish was delivered in prime
condition.

An adequate supply of special fish
cars is still available, provided they
are promptly returned to the ports,
when unloaded. Special schedules

6

The fish pier and sales buildings at
Wesermuende, the largest in Europe.

have been worked out with the
Reichsbahn officials and these fish
cars are now delivered from Bremer-
haven to: Kassel within 20 hours;
Frankfurt within 28 hours; Wuerzburg
within 26 hours; Munich within 36
hours; Hof within 41 hours; Mann-
heim within 42 hours, and Stuttgart
within 52 hours.

To maintain an equalized fish ration
in spite of the fluctuations of daily
landings at ports it is necessary that
some of the fish be processed and
held as reserve stocks. Herring is
the most suitable fish for this purpose
as it can be preserved by salting it
down in barrels and storing in ware-
houses without requiring refrigeration,
Fresh herring can also be preserved
for a considerable time by marinating
or preserving in a light solution of
vinegar. This product is extremely
popular in Germany.

Some of the herring and also some
other kinds of fish are preserved by
smoking, but smoked fish cannot be
stored for long periods of time, and
in the present food shortage in
Germany it does not comprise as
large a part of the fish distribution
as prewar.

HE BIZONAL Executive Committee
Food & Agriculture sets the
amount of fish to be supplied in each
ration period and in some instances
has substituted larger amounts for
meat or eggs for distribution in the
southern Laender, because local
supplies of these products could be
more easily distributed near pro-
ducing points and to eliminate trans-
port difficulties in shipping these
pirducts to other zones and shipping
more fish to the southern Laender.
A larger amount of fish was likewise
supplied in some other areas due to
(Continued on Page 15)

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
High MG Appointments Made

WO IMPORTANT positions in

the administration of Military
Government in Germany were filled
early this month with the appoint-
ment of Brig.Gen. William Hesketh
as Assistent to the Deputy Military
Governor, and of Robert Marrs
Barnett as Director of Civilian Per-
sonnel for the European Command
and Special Adviser to the Military
Governor.

General Hesketh succeeded Brig.
Gen. Cornelius Edward Ryan who has
completed his European tour of duty
and is returning to the United States
for reassignment. General Hesketh
was born in England and moved with
his parents to the United States at the
age of four. He enlisted in the Rhode
Island National Guard in 1915, was
commissioned in the Coast Artillery
in 1917, and rose through many artil-
lery and other army commands to
his immediately previous post as
deputy inspector general of the
European Command. He also will
serve as US member of the Berlin
Kommandatura.

Mr. Barnett, a native of Shelby-
ville, Ky., and a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Tennessee, entered govern-
mental service in 1933 with the NRA.
High positions held prior to coming
to Germany include those as director
of personnel for the Social Security
Board, Federal Security Agency, War
Manpower Commission, and US De-
partment of Labor. He served during
World War I as an aerial observer
during the Meuse and Argonne
campaigns.

HE ORGANIZATION of Military
Tribunal IIA for convening at
Nuremberg to hear such cases as
may be filed by the Chief of Counsel
for War Crimes was initiated by the
appointments of Michael A. Mus-
Manno as presiding judge, and John
J. Speight and Richard D. Dixon as
judges. .
Harry L. Berno has returned to his
Post as chief of the Industry Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS.

Theodore D. Palmer, former assistant
business manager of the New York
Times, partner of an industrial con-

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

photo by PIO, OMGUS
Brig. Gen. William Hesketh

photo by PIO, OMGUS
Robert Marrs Barnett

sultant firm, and wartime colonel in
the US Army, has been named special
consultant to the Economics Division.

William E. McCurdy, on leave from
Harvard University where he is pro-
fessor of law, has been appointed
chief of the Legal Advise Branch,
Legal Division, OMGUS, succeeding
Benjamin D. Habberton, who has
returned to private law practice in
Dallas, Texas. Previously Mr. Mc
Curdy had served a year as special
adviser to Charles Fahy, first director
of the Legal Division.

7

Instructions Given
For DP Mail Delivery

‘NITED NATIONS liaison officers

for repatriation accredited to
EUCOM may carry from the US Area
of Control to their home countries
letters from United Nations displaced
persons, according to EUCOM cable
SC 19302 of 12 September. This in-
struction superseded previous in-
structions or Military Government
Regulations in conflict therewith,
according to the cable.

In implementing this instruction,
the following rules will be observed:

This authority is granted only to
individually accredited liaison officers
for repatriation. It does not apply to
auxiliary personnel on the staff of
repatriation missions who are not
accredited to EUCOM as officers, nor
to the officers or personnel of any
missions other than for repatriation.

The letters for which this authority
is granted are only those from United
Nations displaced persons, as re-
cognized by the US Government
(based upon the definition contained
in the constitution of the International
Refugee Organization). The authority
is not granted for the carrying of
letters from ex-enemy or other cate-
gories of displaced persons, such as
Hungarians, Bulgarians, Rumanians,
or Volksdeutsche.

The letters authorized to be carried
by each authorized liaison officer are
only those from citizens of the
country he represents. However,
Soviet repatriation officers may
also carry letters from Estonians,
Latvians, and Lithuanians to the
latter's countries.

The carrying of letters from in-
dividual accredited liaison officers
for repatriation is authorized only
“from United Nations displaced
persons” to their home countries. No
authority is granted for the carrying
of letters by such officers from home
countries to United Nations displaced
persons in the US Area of Control.
The latter communications are per-
mitted only through established in-
ternational postal channels.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
AIMS OF NEW INDUSTRY PLAN

Laenderrat Advised on Benefits from Revised Program; Also Told of Desire
for Stabilizing German Economy and Implications of Recent Harvest Surveys

The American desire to allow the
German people as a whole to deter-
mine their own economic structure, the
implications resulting from the recent
food surveys, and the benefits to be
obtained from the new level of indus-
try were explained by General Lucius
D. Clay, the Military Governor, at the
September meeting of the Laenderrat
in Stuttgart. The text of his speech
follows.

INCE THE LAST meeting of the

Laenderrat a new level of industry
has been announced for the British
and American occupation zones of
Germany. That new level of industry
represents a substantial increase in
the previously agreed upon level of
industry. As you know, it has always
been the policy of my country and
my government for Germany to have
the opportunity to become a self-
sustaining nation in which its citizens
could have hope for the future. It
became apparent that this could not
be accomplished under the level of
industry as originally calculated and
hence that level of industry has been
revised.

The raising of productive capacity
to this new level will require the ut-
most effort on your part. It can only
be attained provided coal production
is constantly increased until the
normal German production has been
reached. Its importance to you cannot
be overestimated. It will permit you
not only to attain self-sufficiency, but
to contribute products of Germany to
the reconstruction and rehabilitation
of Europe as a whole, it gives you the
facilities to permit you to participate
in the Marshall Plan.

Beyond that, and I think of even
greater importance, it enables you to
find a way in which you can again
rejoin the family of nations. I am sure
that we can count on the full effort
of every patriotic German to ac-
complish the purpose envisaged in
the revised level of industry.

INCE OUR LAST meeting, the
Bremen constitutional assembly
has prepared the constitution for Land

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

ADDRESSING the September meeting
of the Laenderrat at Stuttgart is the

Military Governor. Others on the
platform are (left to right) Sumner
Sewall, director of OMG for Wuert-
temberg-Baden; Ellen Cremer, Ger-
man interpreter; Brig. Gen. Walter
J. Muller, director of OMG for Ba-
varia; Ambassador Robert D. Murphy.
In the foreground is Dr. Reinhold
Maier, minister-president of Wuert-
temberg-Baden. (DENA-Bild)

Bremen. It is to be submitted to the
people of Bremen on 12 October. I
would like to congratulate the Bre-
men assembly which developed the
constitution. When and if this demo-
cratic constitution is accepted by the
Bremen people, it will complete the
cycle for the American Zone. In each
of the four States, democratic consti-
tutions have been drawn up and ac-
cepted by the people.

I would like to say a few words
about the recent food surveys. These
surveys which were cooperatively
undertaken by Military Government
and by the representatives of your
states did develop that the actual food
yields exceed the estimated yields.
We recognize that these surveys are
preliminary and-that they will have

8

to be continued before we develop
the final results. These surveys, I
think, show that we have a mutual
determination to find the facts,

NNFORTUNATELY, when actual

returns exceed estimated yields,
it does convey an impression that
perhaps the full job of agricultural
collection is not being done in Ger-
many. This is important to the tax-
payers of the United States and Great
Britain because in providing funds for
procurement of food in Germany, to
prevent Germany from starvation,
they, too, want to feel that Germany
is doing its own part in distributing
its own food equitably among its
People.

However, let us not get worried
now about the effects of the survey.
Let us continue to obtain the full facts
and then make such a record in the
collection of the food that is avail-
able and in its distribution that there
can be no doubt that the German
government has done a good job in
collecting its food and in seeing it is
properly distributed. In that manner
you will win the support and respect
of the people of Great Britain and of
the United States who are providing
food for you today.

ERE IS ANOTHER matter that I

would like to discuss with you
briefly. Much has been said about
the opposition of American Military
Government to socialization in Ger-
many and much that has been said
has been distorted and inaccurate. I
would not be frank with you if I did
not say to you that America believes
in free enterprise. We believe neither
in monopolizing nor in cartels in re-
straint of trade, we are convinced that
we have attained a high standard of
living for our people through a system
of free enterprise. It believes even
more strongly in democracy.

It is not our purpose nor our desire
to impose any economic structure on
the German people that the German
people do not desire for themselves,

(Continued on Page 14)

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

JHE ANNOUNCEMENT of the re-

vised plan for the level of industry
in the Combined US/UK Zones result-
ed in varied opinions in the licensed
German press of the US Zone but
many saw progress toward the recov-
ery of the Germany economy, while
some drew attention to the view that
even greater relaxation of the re-
strains would be desired by the Ger-
mans.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
recognized the progress made through
the new industry plan but said: “It
changes nothing in respect to the
heaviest, most oppressive element of
insecurity that lies on Germany: The
destruction-reparations problem. The
destruction figures: 33 percent of ca-
pacity in heavy and 23 percent in
light machinery ... remain a night-
marish social and economic load.
They mean a trial of strength for our
moral stamina and will create danger-
ous social tensions.

“The Bizonal Economic Council pe-
titioned the United States and British
Military Governments to be called in
at the redefinition of industrial ca-
pacity ... We believe that some of
the quotas for individual industrial
branches would have been settled
differently if the Economic Council,
i, e. German experts, could have ex-
plained their wishes and proposals...
Nevertheless it seems very probable
to us that an ‘Industry Plan No. 3°

gwill soon continue the very encourag-

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not ne-
cessarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions,

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

Views on Revised Industry Plan

.ing progress that has been made with
{Plan No. 2.”

; The Wuerttembergisches Zeit Echo
(Schwaebisch-Hall) found that the new
industrial plan provides “possibilities
for better use of German industrial
Teserves for the benefit of Europe and
Germany itself. But the background
remains the same—the supply situa-
‘tion in Germany, which is approach-
ing a critical stage . . . However, the
will of Great Britain and the United
States to put western German industry
on its feet again, is very clear.”

The Hochland Bote (Garmisch-
Partenkirchen) took a cold view of
the new plan, editorializing: “It would
be wrong to overestimate the new
plan. For one thing it is not anywhere
near realization. The most valuable
Part of it is the enumeration of those
industrial works that will not be dis-
mantled . .. It has, however, another
higher reality in the diplomatic game.
It serves as preparation for the No-
vember meeting at which the foreign
ministers will debate the German
question.”

Food Crop Estimates

The Mannheimer Morgen declared
itself not satisfied by the explanation
of the differences in crop estimates in
Wuerttemberg-Baden:

“The Land Wuerttemberg-Baden
cannot be proud of the fact that its
government has to take such a correc-
tion from these who hold the real
power... The friendly pacifying
words that have come from OMGUS
+ +. Cannot deceive us that W-B in
this case occupies an unenviable spe-
cial position...

“Herr Stoose, who is responsible, is
minister both for agriculture and for
nutrition. It seems as if he cared con-
siderably more for the first part of
his task than for the second . . . With
the grain crop the same game was
played as with fruit and vegetables.
The bureaucratic administration prov-
ed incapable.”

=

uttgarter Nachrich'

“sharply pointed speech over Radio
Stuttgart” as occasion to call atten-
tion “to the danger of the Fifth
Column, the penetration of the emis-
saries of eastern democracy into all
areas of the western zones." It added:

“They have been able to sneak into
key positions in all branches of our
public life. They are in the labor
unions and the work councils, but also
in quite different positions where they
secretly adhere to the SED, but play
at being harmless bighearted demo-
crats. They praise whatever happens
behind the Iron Curtain and find con-
ditions in the eastern zone delightful,
but in general they do not follow the
natural urge to experience these bles-
sings in person.”

Freedom of Press

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) under
the heading “Right or Wrong, My
Country" cited a letter from a sub-
scriber who complained that German
newspapers often gave foreign coun-
tries weapons in their criticism of Ger-
many by publishing matters which,
though true, had better be left unsaid.
The editor answered by pointing to
to examples in the British and
American press:

“American newspapers and periodi-
cals often and very harshly attack
American methods, occupation policy,
the treatment of Germans, or the
behavior of individual American sol-
diers . . . Frequently this criticism of
Americans by Americans is so sharp
that even Germans find it exaggerated
or unjustified. But in the USA no one
regards such expressions of opinions
as treasonable...

“To criticize one’s own people, to
Tecognize its weaknesses and to fight
then, is a Sign of strength... To
fearfully conceal them is a token of

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 13 ---
CSU Meeting at Eichstaett

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg) said the recent Eichstaett
meeting of the Christian Social Party

'“has served to clear up the party
line," adding:

“Now it is no longer possible to say
that the leaders of the CSU are com-
pletely at variance with each other
on all essential questions. If that were
true, it would have been impossible
for the fundamental speech with which
Dr. Ehard (minister-president) opened
the meeting, and that at several points,
rose to the level of a manifesto of
Christian-Social principles, to have
found the undivided and almost phre-
netic approval of all participants of
the congress,

“The progressive and far-sighted
presentation of the federal principles,
as the Minister-President gave them,
is from now on the immovable basis
for a policy aiming not only at a
renewal of the Bavarian State but at
@ reconstruction of the German state
that must entirely discard the past.”

The Main Post (Aschaffenburg) said:
“Of the many problems not one was
solved. Everything was side-stepped
through demonstration of confidence
that moved opponents, according to
their temper, to either scorn or res-
ignation.

“One positive result, however, de-
serves recognition: The surprising
unanimity of the vote of confidence
for Dr. Ehard that shows that there is
a live instinct for men who are trying
to serve the community and not only
a party bureaucracy. That is an
encouraging fact, and it was under-
lined by the unanimous vote of con-
fidence for Dr. Baumgartner.”

Success at Rio

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
greeted the success of the conference
of Rio de Janeiro: “For the first time
in the history of political states a
whole continent finds itself ready to
give its people, in spite of cultural
and racial differences, a safe founda-
tion of peace. Pan-America is becom-
ing a reality: the spectre of war loses
its menace for this part of the
world... For the United States the
pact is a foreign political success of
first magnitude.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Plan for Ruhr Coal Control

RECOMMENDATION for an agree-

ment establishing German man-
agement under US/UK control of Ruhr
coal mines was made by the Anglo-
American coal conferees in Washing-
ton and announced 10 days ago in
Berlin. The provisions of the agree-
ment are intended to break the coal
bottleneck by raising production from
the present 264,000 short ton daily
output to 1948 goal of 484,000 short
tons, which, the conferees declared,
“is necessary if Germany is to play
its role in European economic re-
covery.”

The agreement must obtain final
approval of both governments,

The coal conferees emphasized in
their report that “while recognizing
the desirability of encouraging Ger-
man responsibility for administration,
we should insist that the German
people and the German authorities
adopt and implement all necessary
measures of economy and self-help to
achieve the program for increasing
availability of coal for Germany and
for Western Europe.

The agreement would be put into
effect as soon as consultations on
provisional agreement now beeing
conducted by the United States and
the United Kingdom with France,
Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxem-
bourg have been concluded. The
responsibility for coal production
would be transferred to German
hands through the establishment of
German coal management responsible
to the US and UK Military Govern-
ments. The management now is under
the Bitish occupation authorities as
the Ruhr is in the British Zone.

HE CONFEREES called the food
situation “the most important
single factor” in increasing the coal
output, adding that “the first essential
step” toward raising the coal pro-
duction is to ensure that the present
ration scale is met regularly and
punctually. They recommended the
immediate import of $ 25,000,000 worth
of mine supplies and equipment
through a joint export-import agency.
It was pointed out by Maj. Gen.
William Draper, former economic ad-
viser to US Military Governor and

10

newly appointed undersecretary of
the army who was one of US rep-
presentatives at the conference, that
although the mines are now operating
at a deficit, the loss would be met
through German tax returns, The
production target for the end of 1947
is output of 330,000 short tons daily.
This would be increasing to 484,000
tons by the end of 1948 and later,
with more mines repaired, the figure
might go higher.

Production on 11 August was
260,000 short tons, and the figure has
risen steadily since to 267,066 short
tons daily on 6 September.

JHE CONFERENCE recommended

that consideration be given at an
“early date” to an expert engineer-
ing study of Ruhr mines by repre-
sentatives of the US coal industry.
It was pointed out that, although
American mining methods might not
be immediately applicable to the
German coal industry a “great ad-
vantage might be derived from Ameri-
can technical experience and advice
when further development is justified
on basis of available funds, labor,
and materials.”

Provision would be made for safe-
guarding the interests of non-German
owners of coal mining property, but
the question of ownership of mines
would not be affected.

Foreign Report Refutted

The Joint Export-Import Agency
(US/UK) denied a statement by a
foreign news agency and repeated by
some Berlin newspapers that news-
print is to be exported from Germany
to the United Kingdom. It is a known
fact, the JEIA pointed out, that news- ;
print in Germany is in extremely
short supply and all available in-
digenous supplies are needed for
German requirements,

Title Change Reprinted

Change 1 to Title 23, Military
Government Legislation, AG 014.12,
OMGUS, 20 June 1947, has been
reprinted with corrections subsequent
to the initial printing. Strikes and
lockouts provisions were withdrawn
from this change and reproduced as
amended in Title 15.

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
JHE GERMAN PW camp at Ulm in

Wuerttemberg-Baden is currently
being used for the reception of dis-
chargees from the east. Approximately
1,500 dischargees a’ week from that
area go through its routine, a German
operation which was formerly devoted
at the Ulm camp to processing men
returning from Britain and France,

These PW’'s are brought from
Frankfurt-on-Oder which they report
to be the staging area where the
final reprocessing by the Soviet
authorities is accomplished. Here
some returnees are issued clothing
contributed through various welfare
organizations and provided out of the
German economy, replacing the worn
clothing which the prisoners have
had since their capture. The re-
patriates who still possess shoes of
leather must surrender these, and
receive wooden sole shoes with cloth
uppers,

Upon arrival at Bebra at the US
Zone border all repatriates are
deloused and then entrained for the
camp at Ulm in the US Zone, German
Red Cross workers and a train com-
Mander accompany all trains from
Bebra. The Ulm reception center is
operated under the Wuerttemberg-
Baden Ministry of the Interior and the
Land refugee commissioner's office,

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

under the supervision of Military
Government. It receives approximately
12 hours notice prior to the arrival
of each train and transportation from
the rail road station to the Kienles-
berg Caserne, a former military instal-
lation with a capacity of 2,500 men, is
provided through the facilities of the
civilian motorpool.

HOSE WHO upon arrival are

seriously ill are immediately
taken to local hospitals; however,
those suffering from overfatigue or
minor illnesses are hospitalized in a
medical ward of the caserne which is
staffed by Red Cross nurses and camp
physicians. All are immediately given
the opportunity for bathing and a
hot meal is prepared regardless of
time of arrival.

After the men are given an op-
portunity to rest from their journey,
tation cards are issued and physical
examinations conducted which include
X-ray and dental examinations. The
medical staff of the caserne consists
of three physicians, a dentist, and an
X-ray technician, The camp physician
reports that of the 9,000 so far received
in this camp two percent have active
tuberculosis and three percent are ar-
rested TB cases, Many individuals
have lost more than half their normal

11

PW dischargees on their way to the station
to take the train on the last lap to their

homes. (Army Signal Corps photo)

weight and 90 percent are reported
to have flat feet. Scurvy is prevalent
and nearly all are suffering from ob-
vious skin irritations.

[HE CHIEF of Public Health Branch

of OMG for Wuerttemberg-Baden
reports “the only cases of actual
starvation edema (dropsy) seen by
this branch since the occupation
began were examined at the Kienles-
berg Caserne in Ulm. . .Malnutrition
is the chief cause of hospitalization
of these men as they reach Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. The actual percentage of
hunger edema cases arriving at
Kienlesberg is 20 percent. Some men
suffer general physical disability, and
have seemingly lost their normal
mental and emotional responses.

Less than three percent of those so
far received were captured prior to
1944 and by far the vast majority
were captured during the last days
of the war or after the capitulation.

This center was established primarily
to serve the southern part of the
western zone and to date approxi-
mately 65 percent of those received
have as their ultimate destination the

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
French Zone of Wuerttemburg, Baden,
the Rhineland, Palatinate, and the
Saar. While it appears there is no
particular selection on the basis of
former political activity, it is noted
that the number of commissioned of-
ficers being discharged is far below
what would constitute a normal
complement.

In general, processing at Kienles-
berg requires from two to three days
during which time repatriates receive
a diet of 2,600 calories per day which
is served in five meals. Experience
has demonstrated that the average
returnee cannot eat a large meal and
care must be taken that the diet
includes relatively little starch or fat.

OLLOWING PHYSICAL examina-

tions, health certificates are issued
which the individual must present to
the local health office upon arrival in
his home community. Such certificates
not only provide insurance against
the spread of contagious and in-
fectious diseases but they are also the
basis for the issuance of special ration
cards such as the individual case may
require,

Telephone and telegraph facilities
are available by which relatives may
be reached, some of whom personally
call at the camp bringing with them a
change of clothing. The camp director
reports that many returnees prefer to
arrive in their home communities

dressed in their prison clothes, ap-
parently due to a feeling that these

constitute a sign of honor, or perhaps
a desire to impress visually their
neighbors with the hardships that
prison life entails.

In many instances assistance is 1e-
quired in locating relatives who have
either become refugees, were bombed
out or perhaps were expelled from the
eastern areas. In such cases the
refugee commissioner is frequently in
the position to provide the required
addresses although this may require
the repatriate to remain in the camp
for several days while files are
searched.

Each resident of the US Zone
receives a discharge pay of 40 marks
and those going to the French Zone
receive 10 marks. Railroad tickets are
issued by representatives of the
Reichsbahn which has established en
office within the camp. Luncheons
including five cigarettes are packed to
provide food in transit.

In addition to the medical facilities
the Ulm camp is equipped with a
barbershop, tailorshop, and a shoe-
repair shop.

URING LULL periods in the pro-

cessing each man is requested to
examine large loose-leaf binders
which contain pictures and descrip-
tions of missing former Wehrmacht
personnel. In addition there are many
large bulletin boards throughout the
halls of the caserne on which are
posters and pictures of missing

persons. Red Cross personnel inter-
rogate all returnees concerning their
comrades with whom they have lived
and worked, and any information
secured is forwarded to relatives.

All letters and notes which many
sought to bring with them when they
left the camps were confiscated during
the processing in Frankfurt-on-Oder.
While these efforts at locating missing
persons have not been productive, it
has been considered worth while from
the standpoint of the relief afforded
to long worrying relatives when in-
formation is secured.

Private German agencies, namely
the Hilfswerk der Evangelischen Kir-
chen, the Caritas-Verband, Red Cross,
and the Arbeiterwohlfahrt, all main-
tain offices in wooden barracks
located within the compound of the
caserne, Each of these agencies
provide limited supplies of clothing
and shoes, most of which are derived
from CRALOG - supplies—although
some is provided by collections from
various communities throughout the
Land.

HESE AGENCIES believe that in

many instances «returning PW’s
find their relatives have already
procured the most necessary items of
clothing or have saved garments from
prewar days. It is obvious that at the
time of arrival all prisoners require
clothing and shoes and it is completely
impossible to outfit the mall. In ad-
dition it is felt that in as much as
the supply is so limited these items
can only be issued after an adequate
home investigation establishing need,
Records reveal that the four agencies
together issue less than 200 garments
per week and these are usually
issued to individuals joining an ex-
pelled family who probably are in the
greatest need.

All the agencies report that they
are frequently called upon to assist in
establishing contacts with families and
in providing of individual per-
sonalized services. Dischargees found
to be in need of prolonged hospital
care are transported to the medical
center in Goeppingen or to the tuber-
culosis hospital in Bad Mergentheim.
Those who require recuperative care
are sent to rest centers operated by
the various welfare agencies where
extra food is provided over and
above the normal ration.

Dischargees examining data regard-
ing missing former Wehrmacht mem-
bers. (Army Signal Corps photo.)

--- Page 16 ---
RESS OPINION, in general, in the

United States, has favored a spe-
cial session of Congress to consider
emergency aid for Europe even prior
to the functioning of the Marshall
Plan. Early editorial comment on
Secretary Marshall's statement, im-
plying approval of special session,
has been favorable.

Some editorial writers, however,
insist that Europe put its own house
in order before appealing to the
United States for aid. Emphasis
was placed on the importance of a
complete survey of the European
situation, with most newspapers
distinguishing between short-term
“crisis” needs and a long-range plan
for European reconstruction.

The Washington Post said, in part:
“It should have been obvious when
Congress adjourned that the economic
distress in western Europe was de-
generating at such a fast clip that a
call for action would be forthcoming
by fall. Facts now bear out this view.
The first indication that they had
made an impression upon the State
Department came from Undersecretary
Lovett during the absence in Rio de
Janeiro of Secretary Marshall. ‘It is
later than you think’ he told news-
Paper correspondents. Mr. Marshall
... threw out the hint that as soon as
the President gets back to Washing-
ton, he will find on his desk the
Marshall recommendation that a spe-
cial session be called.

“Secretary Marshall differentiates
between an emergency need in Europe
and a long-term need for plan to
reestablish what at Harvard he called
a ‘working economy’ for Europe. This
latter, which Secretary Marshall calls
+». European Recovery Program, can-
not possibly be ready before next
spring. But long before that time
France and Italy, and possibly Britain,
will be totally denuded of dollars
wherewith to buy our American
wheat. And this is what western
Europe needs as never before.

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

Emergency Aid for Europe

“International measures of self-help
are part of the European Recovery
Program as this country sees it, and
this country should insist upon them
as the price of emergency, let alone
of long-term aid."

The Philadelphia Inquirer said: “It's
no great surprise to learn that Secre-
tary Marshall believes some European
countries will need American aid this
year ‘to meet immediate threat of
intolerable hunger and cold’. Recent
indications have been that some sort
of stop-gap assistance, pending adop-
tion of the Marshall Plan, may be
necessary ...

“But we should make it clearly
understood by Europe that our aid,
whether under the Marshall Plan or
on an emergency basis, must be grant-
ed on our terms, not on terms of
nations which are trying by devious
means to bolster their own national-
istic and colonial fortunes at our
expense.”

The Christian Science Monitor: “It
is true that information and plans
which a special session would require
can hardly be prepared before No-
vember. But Congress is not the only
place where preparation is required.
Public opinion needs briefing on the
situation. And that ought to start well
before Congress meets. We should
not have another sudden proposal like
that for aid to Greece. We should not
have the administration acting as if
there would be no necessity for a
special session. We should have
leadership alert to the dangers and
taking the people into its confidence.

“Today, something like lend-lease
is required if the United States wishes
to support democracy in Europe.
Without the drama of war more
imagination will be needed to under-
stand and to act. For that leadership
is imperative. It should come from
the President first—and then from
any Republicans who aspire to be
more than party chieftains.”

13

gress adjourne a]
hope but with no assurance
would not convene again until
January. Even the President's state-
ment that he saw no reason for a
special session unless the European
situation deteriorated carried im-
plication that such a session might be
necessary. Events of the summer in-
dicate plainly enough that the situa-
tion has deteriorated.

“There are two problems—the im-
mediate emergency and the long-term
program of reconstruction. Much as
many Americans hate to face the
facts, much as Congress resents the
atmosphere of crisis in which we are
called upon to act, the truth is that
the crisis exists. It creates its own
atmosphere of urgency because policy
and action are never quick enough
to catch up with it.

“Next year will be too late to
tackle the long-term problem if a col-
lapse occurs in any important country
—Britain, France, or Italy, say—
within the next few months. The
Marshall Plan was proposed as an
alternative to improvised and emerg-
ency reliefs, and the administration
will be as reluctant to sponsor as
Congress will be to support further
stop-gap appropriations, But again the
trouble is that the gap is there and
has to be stopped if we mean to
pursue policy laid down in the
Marshall Plan.”

The Atlanta Constitution: “The task
facing the American Congress is to
insure that whatever aid is granted
be converted into production-making
ability so as to enable Britain and
Europe to become self-sustaining.
That is the core of the Marshall Plan.
Little good can result from handing
Europe a huge sum to be spent in
buying necessities of the day in order
to raise the living standard. Produc-
tion and eventual self-sustenance are
the only means of remedying Europe's
plight and we hope Congress will
adopt measures which will preclude
any other course.”

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Exports of Soviet Zone

Citing details on exports of the
Soviet Zone and on the dissolution of
the Soviet AG for fuel, Die Neue
Zeitung, US Military Government
German-language zonal newspaper,
said:

“Contrary to the western zones,
there are no detailed figures avail-
able in the eastern zone for its
exports. However, one must conclude
exports are lower than in the west
because the great share of industry
works for reparations ..“

Stating the goods imported also
differ from those in the west, the
paper pointed out no food imports are
brought in. The main imports are raw
materials, reported the paper, stating
that in the first place are textile im-
ports which are processed and then
exported. As other imports the paper
cited pit coal, sulphur, material for
fertilizer production, and _ small
amounts of iron.

“The main share of the eastern
German exports are found in textiles,
glass, and potash products,” continued
the paper. “Both imports and exports
have been rather small.”

Die Neue Zeitung found as “astound-
ing" the fact that in addition to the
above items other products are ex-
ported which are particularly scarce
in the eastern zone. It named ma-

chines, medicaments, spare parts of
motor vehicles, and seeds.

“The main partner of the eastern
zone is the Soviet Union,” the paper
stated. “With its supplies of cotton
and wool the Soviet Union sends a
considerable part of the raw materials
for the eastern zone textile industry.
In return .. the Soviet Union
receives processed textile goods,
while the remainder is either used for
reparations or bought up by Soviet
purchasing companies,”

On another phase of exports, the
Paper said that special Soviet export
companies make contracts for German
firms, which cannot very weil refuse
them, and pay for goods in German
marks,

“It is not clear where these marks
come from,” stated the paper, advis-
ing that the goods bought by the
companies become Soviet property,
while the foreign currency received
through the sale of these goods in
foreign countries is not turned over
to the eastern zone economy.

However, added the paper, the sale
of goods by these companies explains
only partially why there are so many
eastern zone products sold in foreign
markets. The paper said that products
which the Soviet Union take as
Teparations are not exclusively taken
to Russia.

SEVERAL MEMBERS of the US Congress arrived in Germany this month to
investigate conditions. In this group in Berlin are (left to right) Rep. C. W.
Bishop (Illinois), House armed services committee; Rep. Gordon Canfield

(New Jersey), House appropriations committee;

Rep. Joseph L. Pifeifer

(New York), House foreign affairs committee; Rep. Margaret Chase Smith
(Maine), House armed services committee: Rep. Leon H. Gavin (Pennsylvania),
House armed services committee. (Photo by Bowlds, PIO, OMGUS.)

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

New Year’s Greeting

General Lucius D. Clay, Commander-
in-Chief, European Command, and
US Military Governor, extended a
New Year's greeting to the Jewish
members of the US Armed Forces,
the Jewish civilians working in Mili-
tary Government and with the Army,
and to displaced persons and all others
of Jewish faith in the theater. General
Clay said:

“I am sure that I speak for all
Americans in Germany in extending
hearty greetings and good wishes at
the approach of the Jewish New Year
to the soldiers and civilans in this
Command who are of Jewish faith
and to all others of Jewish faith in
Germany, and particularly those who
are under the protection of the
American Armed Forces in the Ameri-
can Zone of Germany.

“Europe still suffers from the after-
math of war. Many nations, through
no actions on their part, were im-
poverished as the result of an aggres-
sive war, and people everywhere are
still looking forward to a world of
peace in which the’ wounds of war
may be healed and normal life
resumed. It is my sincere hope that
the Jewish New Year will bring with
it a resolution of the many problems
which still confront the Jewish people
in Germany."

(Continued from Page 8)
Aims of New Industry Plan

We believe, nevertheless, that that
desire can only be expressed by the
German people as a whole. Within
the field of state utilities and state
enterprises which operate within the
bounds of a single state, that decision
lies within that state.

However, where there are resources
and industries that are essential to
the economy of all Germany, that
decision passes beyond the power of
a single state to make, It then be-
comes a decision that can be made
only when the political structure of
Germany has been determined and
when the German people within that
political structure have had the right
to express their vetos. It will be their
opinion that makes the decision and
not the imposed dictates of Military
Government.

22 SEPTEMBER 1947

--- Page 18 ---
(Top) Loading coal on fishing craft. (middle)

Taking on coal and ice for month's trip to

Iceland. (bottom) Modern canneries utilize
all edible parts of the fish.

(Continued from Page 6)
German Fishing Fleet

shortages of meat and an easter
availability of fish near the coastal
ports.

It became evident that the number
of fishing vessels left to the German
economy after the destruction of war
would be insufficient to produce the
amount of fish which it is economi-
cally desirable to supply to the popu-
lation as an essential animal fat and
protein component of the ration.
Whatever goal might be set for a
fixed ration of fish to the population
of the US Zone, it was clearly evident
that some imports would be necessary.

A program for the importation of
Norwegian fish into the British Zone
had already started, when authori-
zation was received by OMGUS to
purchase approximately $ 8,000,000
worth of fish for distribution in the
US Zone. In May 1946 the representa-
tives of the Joint Export/Import
Agency and the Food & Agriculture
Branch of OMGUS negotiated con-
tracts with Norway, Denmark, and
Sweden, under which 49,600 tons of
fresh, frozen, and salted fish were
delivered at a total cost of $ 8,625,000.

This fish was delivered by boat to
Bremerhaven and by rail and refrig-
erated trucks from Denmark and was
equitably distributed in the US Zone
up until 1 January 1947, after which
date the stocks on hand and remainder
of the shipments due under the con-
tract were pooled with the imports
into the British Zone under a unified
distribution plan. With the implement-
ation of the program of the Food &
Agriculture Group all landings of the
fishing fleet in both zones and
imports for the German population
have been distributed under a uniform
ration scale in the two zones.

FFORTS TO improve the operating
efficiency of the existing fleet

and to speed-up the reconversion %f
former fishing vessels back to fishing

22 SEPTEMBER 1947 15 WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
have demanded the attention of
practically all branches of Military
Government. The first and foremost
need of the fishing fleet is a regular
and dependable supply of coal. It
Tequires on an average more than
1 ton of coal for each ton of fish
caught. The fishing fleet has shared
with all other elements of German
economy the difficulties arising out of
the shortage of coal supply and trans-
port.

During the past winter, when the
inland water ways were frozen over,
the railroads were unable to deliver
sufficient coal to the fishing fleet for
its operations in the heavy white fish
season in Iceland and Barents Sea
grounds. The coal shortage added to
the severe weather, conditions on the
highseas and ice conditions in the
Port of Bremerhaven materially re-
duced the production during February,
March, and early April 1947.

Timber also forms a necessary
requirement for the fishing fleet, not
only for construction and repair of
the boats themselves, but for barrels,
and boxes for storage and shipment.
There is a great shortage of the
proper kinds of wood for fish barrels
in the US and British Zones, and
during 1946 and 1947 large supplies of
barrel staves were obtained from the
French and Soviet Zones, Supplies of
heavy timber required in ship repair
and conversion have been difficult,
but most of this work has now been
completed and smaller supply will be
required in the future.

A shortage of fishing nets and
materials for the manufacture of wire
cables, ropes, and nets has seriously
hampered the operation of the fleet
this spring. Through the coordinated
efforts of all branches of the Economic
Division and the Joint Export/Import
Agency some of these shortages have
been met, and supplies so urgently
required for maximum fleet operations
have been given a high priority for
manufacture and allocation to the
fishing industry.

ACTICALLY all existing vessels
that are suitable for conversion
for fishing have now been locate and
returned to the shipyards, where, it
is expected, they will be made ready
for operation by the end of the year.

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Staff Memorandum No. 62, Hq
EUCOM, 11 August 1947. Section I—
Weekly Directives (Details in WIB
issue No. 109). Section II—Dispatch
of Telegram to Luxembourg, advises
communications via Staff Message
Control.

Staff Memorandum No. 61, Hq
EUCOM, 11 August 1947. Security.
Cites responsibility of safeguarding
classified military information.

Circular No. 66, Hq EUCOM, 14 Au-
gust 1947, Section I—Company and
Separate Unit Post Offices; Section 11
—Table of Clothing and Equipment
Allowance for the European Command
and Section IJI—Firearms in Billets
and Quarters.

Circular No. 76, Hq EUCOM, 28 Au-
gust 1947. Section I—Recissions; Sec-
tion II—Continement and Administra-
tion of General and Garrison Prisoners;
Section III—Nonappropriated Funds
and Section IV—Duty Travel Orders
and Clearance,

Military Government — Germany —
Ordinance No. 17, “Prohibited Trans-
actions and Activities," AG 383.8 (LD),
OMGUS, 2 September 1947.

A comparatively few fishing vessels
are still engaged in minesweeping.
Quadripartite agreement has been
reached for the construction of 100
new fishing trawlers in the smaller
shipyards not earmarked for repa-
rations or destruction as war potential.
Of the new trawlers 34 may not
exceed 400 gross registered tons and
66 may not exceed 450 GRT. These
vessels will be somewhat smaller than
the types developed by the German
fishing industry prior to 1939, but it is
generally believed that they can be
designed efficiently enough, so that
they may fish in the more productive
grounds around Iceland and _ the
Barents Sea, rather than in the North
Sea, where the coastal fleets of the
other countries make the danger of
overfishing a hazard which is re-
ceiving international consideration by
all countries concerned. The first ten
of these new trawlers are to be started
immediately from material now on
hand in the shipyards, but it will take
a year to 18 months to complete them.

Domestic Help, AG 230 (AG),
OMGUS, 6 September 1947. Rescinds
OMGUS letter, 12 September 1946,
AG 624 (HC) and cites Circular 138,
Hq Berlin Command, 16 August 1947
as proper information.

Misuse of Official Stationery, AG
312.4 (AG), OMGUS, 6 September 1947.
Prohibits use for personal correspond-
ence,

Recission of Information Control
Regulation No. 3, AG 010.6 (IC),
OMGUS, 8 September 1947, Concerns
interzonal exchange of newspapers,
books, magazines, and other publi-
cations,

Transport by Rail in Germany of
International Red Cross Committee
Supplies for the Civilian Population
of the Four Occupied Zones of Ger-
many, AG 080 (FD), OMGUS, 8 Sep-
tember 1947,

Procedure for Procuring Military
Exit Permits for German Businessmen,
AG 014.331 (ED), OMGUS, 9 Septem-
ber 1947,

Change to Winter Time in Germany,
AG 003 (IA), OMGUS, 9 September
1947, Cites the time change as 0300
hours on 5 October 1947 when all
clocks should be turned back one
hour.

Control Council Law No. 58, Supple-
ment to Appendix to Control Council
Law No. 2 Providing for the Termina-
tion and Liquidation of Nazi-Organiz-
ations, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 10
September 1947,

Change of Residence Between Zones
(MGR 91147), AG 01434 (PA),
OMGUS, 12 September 1947.

Control Council Law No. 57—Disso-
lution and Liquidation of Insurance
Companies Connected with the Ger-
man Labor Front, AG 010.6 (FD),
OMGUS, 12 September 1947.

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF