--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 115 / 20 OCTOBER 1947

CIVIL AVIATION

ee ae

|
‘
i

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

CIVIL AVIATION—Passengers boarding a

DC4 at the Rhine/Main Airport, Frankfurt.

The photo is intended to emphasize civil

aviation in Germany. An article on this

subject appears on page 3 of this issue.
(AAF photo)

INFORMATION

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Data on Friends in Germany was pro-
vided by the American Friends Service
Committee in Berlin, An interesting side-
ligbt to this article is the fact that the
Quakers live with the German people,
eating German rations and putting ap with
German shortages, It is the Quakers’ policy

to live at the same level as that of the TABLE OF CONTENTS

persons in whose country they work.

Civil Aviation was written by James Issue No. 115 20 October 1947
J. Ferretti, administrative assistant to the
chief ef the Civil Aviation Branch, Armed

pared from the agenda and discussions at
the Munich session of the recent seminar
series and from additional data supplied by Ortictal Instructions.:.4 99° 082!) Js] fegiteM is ag
officials of the Civil Administration Divi-

Forces Division, OMGUS, in conjunction Civil Aviation oare gsi) lewd gumbo sue (ree
with Gordon Pearson, Airways Operations Friends in Germany x 5

Section, amd John S, Parker, Economics
Regulations Section. Maximization of Agriculture, Part 4. . 7
The article on Field Seminars was pre- Interchange of Cultural Material. . 8
9

Press!and Radio Comment... sh. ae yas ee

Laenderrat Addressed on Anniversary. . . .. . It
sion, OMGUS.

Reparations Policy Toldto Germans. . ..... If

iGermansPressiReactions .““!"), "yo! Who, ST ag)

Field Seminars

NEXT WEEK

Full detaile on the war and specific in-
dustrial plants declared available for repar-
ations from the US-UK Zones will be given
in Issue No. 116 along with the list of those
to be removed from the US Zone. Other
articles will include the work of MG prison
Officials in checking juvenile delinquency,
food collection and distribution in Bavaria,

and impounded German motion picture OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
films. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
New OMGB Director Named

HE APPOINTMENT of former Gov.

Murray D. Van Wagoner of Mich-
igan as Director of the Office of
Military Government for Bavaria has
been announced by Gen. Lucius D.
Clay. He will succeed Brigadier
General Walter J. Muller, who will
retum to the United States for
reassignment,

Mr, Van Wagoner will assume his
duties in Munich in mid-November
after a trip to the United States. He
came to Germany recently as en-
gineering consultant to General Clay.

The former Michigan executive was
in Germany in 1937, as president of
the American Road Builders Associa-
tion. He inspected the autobahn
system over its entire 2,200 miles.

Mr. Van Wagoner was born in
Keingston, Mich., 18 March 1898, He
attended the public schools at Pon-
tiac, Mich., and was graduated from
the University of Michigan College
of Engineering in 1921, For four years
he -was District Engineer of the Mich-
igan State Highway Department.

In 1930 he was elected Oakland
Country Drain Commissioner, was
reelected in 1932, and in 1933 was
elected State Highway Commissioner.
He was again elected to this post in
1937 and in that year was appointed
by President Roosevelt to be US
delegate to the International Road
Congress at The Hague.

Mr. Van Wagoner was elected Gov-
ernor! of Michigan in 1940 and
served for two years, later entering
private business in Detroit.

General Muller became Military
Governor of Bavaria during the for-
mative days of a new Bavarian Gov-
ernment headed by Dr. Wilhelm
Hoegner, after the former Minister-
President, Fritz Schaeffer, and his
cabinet had been removed for ob-
struction of occupation policies,

Release of German Prisoners

All German prisoners of war in
Allied custody are due to be released
by the end of 1948, according to an
OMGUS announcement. Thus far,
all US-held German PW’s_ with
the exception of those still in Belgium
and Luxembourg have been discharged.

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

se

Murray D, Van Wagoner

Personnel Changes

Jack M. Fleischer, former European
correspondent for. the United Press
and for Time and Life magazines, has
been appointed editor-in-chief of Die
Neue Zeitung, official Military Gov-

ernment German-language  semi-
weekly newspaper, published in
Munich. Born in Milwaukee, Wis.,

Mr. Fleischer filled the vacancy
caused by the return of Hans Wallen-
berg to the United States.

Warren Trabant has succeeded
Heinz Norden as editor-in-chief of
Heute, MG pictorial magazine for
German circulation, also published in
Munich. Mr. Trabant, native of New
York City, formerly operated his own
writers’ and photographers’ service
in New York and was on the staff
of Fortune and Life magazines.

OMGUS Supplies DP Food

Over-all responsibility for supplying
food to United Nations displaced per-
sons and eligible refugees in approv-
ed assembly centers in the US Zone
was assumed by OMGUS on 1 Octo-
ber. The assembly centers continue
to remain under the control of the
International Refugee Organization.

2

Changes Approved ,
In Denazification Law

EVISION of the German Law for
Liberation from National So-
cialism and Militarism has been
adopted unanimously by the Laender-
rat, The Proposals had earlier received
approval of Military Government.
The changes simplify denazification
procedure and provide for more
leniency to former nominal Nazis
and other less serious offenders, It
also extends the field of denazification
by providing for proceedings against
persons who after 8 May 1945
endangered democratic development
through the spread of Nazi or mili-
taristic ideas, racial prejudice, or
malicious rumors.

Another change defines property,
in connection with denazification sen-
tences, ordering the confiscation of
former Nazi holdings, including raw
materials allocated for manufacturing.
Goods taken from former Nazi manu-
facturers are to be turned over to
factories operated by victims of
Nazism.

According to the revision, public
prosecutors may demand classification
as followers of all so-called nominal
members of the Nazi party, if in-
vestigation shows such action justi-
fied, and of individuals who, upon
completion of services with the Hitler
Youth, were taken over by the
NSDAP or held minor posts in party
organizations,

Activists who did not hold member-
ship in any of the organizations de-
clared criminal by the International
Military Tribunal also may be classed
as followers upon approval by Mili-
tary Government.

Probation terms for minor offenders
are to be limited as a rule to three
years,

Persons classed as major offenders
or activists are barred from em-
ployment in other than ordinary
labor, Individuals classed as minor
offenders or followers who held
membership in the Nazi party or any
of its organizations, except the youth
organizations, ,are banned from
responsible posts in public service,
economy, or industry and from posts
as teacher, clergymen, editors, and
writers.

20 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 6 ---
)

IVIL AVIATION in Germany to-

day represents a paradox which
is requiring special handling on the
part of the Military Government. Its
ramifications are zonal, bizonal, and
quadripartite in scope.

While civil aviation activity is im-
portant to the efficient operation of
any modern economy, and certain
civil aviation services are vital to the
economic rehabilitation of Germany,
one of the objectives of the occu-
pation is to prohibit Germany herself
from re-engaging in aviation activity.

The background to this unusual
situation involves a cause-and-effect
story which goes back to World War I.

Previous operations of German civil
aviation can be traced to the Deutsche
Luftreederei, which was founded in
1917 and managed to survive the Ar-
mistice. While the Peace Treaty fol-
lowing World War I originally pro-
hibited Germany from maintaining any
military aviation installations or fa-
cilities, several important restrictions
imposed by the Treaty of Versailles

20 OCTOBER 1947

were repealed during the Twenties,
paving the way for subsequent ex-
pansion of civil aviation industry and
creation of a powerful war potential.

The Deutsche Lufthansa emerged as
the strongest civil air transportation
combine in 1926, as a result of an
amalgamation of the two rival air
line companies—The Deutsche Aero-
Lloyd and The Junkers Luftverkehr.

From this point on, civil aviation in
Germany was virtually a monopoly of
Lufthansa, subsidized by the Central
Government, and originally controlled
by the following divisions of partici-
pating stock: Reich Government,
26 percent; German Laender, 19 per-
cent; Regional Air Transport Organi-
zations, 27% percent; private in-
vestors, 271/2 percent.

IOLLOWING the merger of 1926,
Lufthansa effected an economic

consolidation upon which was built a
huge air combination which covered
Germany with an air transport net-
work and became one of the leaders
in European air transportation.

With the advent of the Nazi regime,
formation of the Reichs Air Ministry
in 1933, and the rearmament procla-

3

Frankfurt. (AAF Photo)

mation of 1935, German civil aviation
policy was increasingly influenced by
political and military considerations,
Lufthansa was soon training future
Luftwaffe personnel, participating in
aerial photography, and employing
Luftwaffe reserves. Lufthansa and the
whole civil aviation industry was in-
creasingly subsidized and influenced
by the government, and its foreign
operations were soon colored by
espionage and political intrigue.

By the time hostilities broke out in
1939, the Lufthansa organization was
already a vital factor in the Nazi
plans for total war.

In evaluating the rise and fall of
Hitler’s war machine, one of the basic
characteristics now accorded general
recognition is the close relationship
between certain peacetime and war
time industries. The cunning misuse
the Germans made of their ostensibly
peaceful civil air transport organi-
zation, the ease with which it was
converted to military use, and the
support it gave to an active aviation

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

THE RHINE/MAIN Air Base terminal near

--- Page 7 ---
manufacturing industry which in itself
was an ever-present war potential,
ate now fully appreciated.

Because of this close relationship of
an active civil aviation industry to
the creation of a powerful war poten-
tial, the Potsdam Agreement and Allied
Control Council directives prohibited
Germany and German nationals from
engaging in aviation activity for them-
selves, One of the original high
priority duties of the Allied Control
Council was to effect a complete de-
mobilization, disarmament, and de-
militarization of the defeated Luft-
waffe and its maze of associated para-
military aviation organizations, in-
cluding the Deutsche Lufthansa.

With the complete accomplishment
of this objective on a quadripartite
basis, Germany stands as a country
without its own aviation industry.
While decreeing that the German
aviation industry should be eliminat-
ed, the signatories to the Potsdam
Agreement recognized that certain
aviation services are necessary for
the efficient operation of any modern
economy. Accordingly, while denying
the right of Germans to produce or
maintain aircraft, they did not exclude
the provision of necessary air service
in Germany by other than German
nationals,

URING THE INITIAL stages of the
occupation, the main aerial activ-

ity over Germany was that of the Air
Forces of the four occupation powers.
In order to facilitate the orderly flow
of this international traffic over the
four Zones of Occupation, negotia-

A JUNKERS G 24 in front of a Deutsche Luft-
hansa hangar at Tempelhof airport, Berlin,

before the occupation.

tions took place within the Allied
Control Council to establish unified
flight rules and procedures necessary
for the promotion of air safety.
Quadripartite negotiations were car-
tied out within the Allied Control
Council to meet the need for an ade-
quate system of airways and air
routes between and over the respec-
tive Zones of Occupation. While the
United States, supported by Great Brit-
ain and France, introduced the prin-
ciple of freedom of flight over Ger-
many as a whole, lack of complete
unity made a compromise necessary.
Air communication lanes to Berlin
were finally agreed upon. Three air
corridors were established for un-
testricted use by aircraft of the four
occupying powers: Frankfurt-Berlin;
Hannover-Berlin; and Hamburg-Ber-
lin. These corridors were defined as
the air space extending 10 miles on
each side of a center line connecting
the terminal points.

In addition to the corridors, there
was established the Berlin Control
Zone, which is the air space between
ground level and 10,000 feet within a
tadius of 20 miles from the Allied
Control Authority building. This is a
zone of free flight for all aircraft land-
ing or taking off from the Berlin air-
fields. Control of all aircraft conduct-
ing flight within the Berlin Control
Zone and within the corridors is exer-
cised by the Berlin Air Safety Center
situated in the Allied Control Author-
ity building. This Air Safety Center
was established through quadripartite
negotiation and is operated by per-
sonnel of the four occupying nations.
The operating team of the US Ele-
ment are able members of the Sth
AACS Wing. Close coordination is
maintained with OMGUS and USAFE.

IKE ALL OTHER quadripartite or-

ganizations the directorship of the
Center rotates on a monthly basis
among the four elements. It is the
responsibility of the Center to main-
tain up-to-date information on weather
conditions over German territory and
in other Control Zones and to regulate
air traffic during conditions of poor
visibility by fixing the time, course
and height of flight and thus to ensure
the vertical and horizontal separation
of aircraft necessary to avoid colli-
sions. A network of facilities for
communications with aircraft in flight
and between fixed points within and
outside Germany is installed for this
purpose. Complete coordination and
liaison is maintained between the four
nations using separate national air-
fields in the area of Greater Berlin
and air traffic is directed smoothly
and efficiently. Uniform rules of flight
compiled by the four elements are
applicable to all aircraft operating in
the Berlin Control Zone and the cor-
tidors extending from Berlin.

Each Zone Commander has supreme
authority for control of civil aviation
in his respective zone of occupation,
and he may negotiate directly with
other Zone Commanders in matters
not affecting all zones.

ITH THE RETURN of peacetime

economic activity in Germany and
adjacent European nations, the need
for resuming control of civil aviation
activities increased. Commercial air-
line operators of adjoining nations
made application for various transit
and traffic rights into and over Ger-
many on an increasing scale. Lacking
the economic unity underwritten at
the Potsdam Conference, it is ne-
cessary for the individual Zone Com-

(Continued on Page 14)

--- Page 8 ---
HE AMERICAN Friends Service

Committee (AFSC), in the quiet
way of the Quakers, is lending its
efforts toward helping the Germans
rebuild their country.

The task began in the spring of
1946, when 20 ASFC workers joined
Quaker teams in the British Zone
under the sponsorship of the British
Red Cross, Late in 1946, AFSC teams
were admitted to the French Zone,
and in the spring of 1947 they ex-
tended their activities to the US
Occupied Area. Today, 54 AFSC work-
ere are active in the three zones,

American Military Government,
recognizing the value of the program,
gave the AFSC permission earlier
this year to start “Nachbarschafts-
heime” (neighborhood centers). With
the help of German Quakers, the
AFSC established such centers in
Frankfurt, Berlin, and Darmstadt.

The old Prinz Emilschloss is the
site of the Darmstadt center. This
bombed castle was a city museum
before the war, set pleasantly in the
midst of a shady park. The city wel-
fare officials decided it would be a
suitable site for a neighborhood center

20 OCTOBER 1947

for two reasons. Situated as it was
amid ruins, it symbolized the destruc-
tion wrought by war. Reconstructed, it
could serve as a stimulus to a dis-
couraged people to tackle the job of
city rebuilding.

Since the task of rebuilding the
schloss will take some time, the
Friends imported wooden barracks
from Sweden to provide a temporary
place for community activity. The
quarters, situated behind the schloss,
were small, so the German city
architect proposed construction of a
kitchen and shop room outside the
barracks itself. A tottering wall of the
schloss was pulled down to provide
bricks for the new structure. Volun-
teers from youth groups in the
vicinity cleaned old mortar from the
bricks and got them into condition
for re-use, Part of the large schloss
cellar was virtually undamaged, and
this was cleaned out as a first step.
The bare wooden barracks were divid-
ed into five rooms—library, office,
sewing room, lounge, and a meeting
hall which could be sub-divided into
two rooms by means of a folding door,
Plumbing and electrical fixtures were

5

A WORKER of the American Friends Service

Committee explains to a group of Frankfurt

citizens the Neighborhood Center Idea, in

which young and old of various religious,

social and political groups share in respon-

sibility and leadership for self-help projects.
(DENA Bild)

brought from Luxembourg, and lum-
ber for the inside work from Switzer-
land,

Work on the grounds was under-
taken simultaneously. School children,
equipped with Swedish shoes, German
spades, and American rakes, worked
voluntarily for two-hour periods each
afternoon. Occasional picnics were
held,

N LINE with the plan to draw
German youths into the neigh-
borhood center by having them
contribute to the work of setting it
up, older students were encouraged
to build swings, slides, sandboxes,
and climbing ladders for the younger
children, while older girls and women
made curtains, and interior dec-
orations.

Barracks were also imported to
house the Frankfurt neighborhood

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
(Top photo) German girl sewing in neigh-
borhood center established by the American
Friends Service Committee. (Right) German
youth helping in rebuilding. (DENA Bild).

home, but Berlin's center is situated
in a large rented house.

The Berlin center also operates a
test home for social workers and
those in related professions, and
conducts an adult education program.
Food is shipped from the United
States to supplement the feeding of
the staff, children, and rest home
guests, and to give hot drinks and
nourishment to conference groups,
work shop groups, and those who
will use its warming rooms during
the winter. The food, as well as
equipment for work shops, and a
day-care center, have been sent by
the AFSC through CRALOG. CARE
has cooperated by turning over a
certain portion of its undesignated
and dividend packages to the center
programs,

During the winter, 35 Berlin Uni-
versity students with ‘“Mittelhof,”
the Quaker Berlin Center, as a week-
end base, will operate as a work-
camp group. They will continue such
re-building projects as were started
last summer at the Technische Hoch-
schule (technical academy), in which
75 students from 10 nations worked

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

as carpenters, and masons. They will
also engage in study, discussion and
recreation,

LTHOUGH INDIVIDUAL relief
organizations did not operate in
the US Zone until the spring of
1947, combined Anglo-American

6

Quaker teams have been working
since the spring of 1946 in Cologne,
Dortmund, Aachen, Oberhausen, Ol-
denburg, Hannover, Berlin, Goslar,
Schleswig, Solingen, Brunswick, and
Bad-Pyrmont. One fourth of their
work has been with displaced per-
sons, the other three-fourths directly
with the Germans, The Friends have
helped in the task of resettling a
million and a half expellees who
had to be accepted from New Poland
for absorption within the British
Zone, under the terms of the Potsdam
Agreement,

The Quakers also cooperated with
the Germans in obtaining jobs,
homes, and clothes for repatriated
Prisoners of War, especially those
returning from the East.

From the spring of ‘46 the AFSC
as one of the agencies of CRALOG,
helped feed 200,000 children in the
largest cities in the American Zone
and 5,000 youths in summer camps
in Land Hesse, In the Rhine-West-
falia area of the British Zone, also
through CRALOG, the AFSC has
conducted a feeding program for
35,000 children.

366,000 Tons of Grains
Arrive for Germans

During the first three weeks of
September a total of approximately
366,000 tons of bread grains and flour
(346,000 tons in flour equivalent),
valued at $40,500,000, arrived from
the United States for feeding German
civilians in the Combined (US/UK)
Area of Germany, the Food and Agri-
culture Branch, OMGUS, has annouced.

Fifteen hundred tons of other foods,
including dried milk, rolled oats and
miscellaneous items, costing the Amer-
ican and British taxpayer an addi-
tional $400,000, arrived during the
same period.

These accelerated bread grain ship-
ments during the past several month
have brought food stocks to an all-
time high in the Combined Area, and
is making possible the maintenance of
the full bread ration of 10,000 grams
for the normal consumer per ration
period of 28 days.

20 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
N ORDER to establish proper de-
livery quotas, which will yield the

maximum possible collections and
yet be just to each individual farmer,
an accurate estimate of the expected
harvest is essential, Such estimates
are based on the “land-use” and
livestock censuses, together with the
official estimates of yields, All these
are regularly subjected to substantial
upward “corrections” by MG authori-
ties, to take account of the bias
usually present in German figures.

Each June, an annual census is
taken of all land, including land
under cultivation, meadows and
pastures, vineyards, waste land, and
forests. In former times these cen-
suses were extremely accurate but
under the stringent food regulations
adopted by the Nazis during war-
time a tendency to under-report has
developed. This tendency has in-
creased since the occupation, because
farmers and local officials know that
their delivery obligations are cal-
culated on the basis of land reported
to be in various uses.

In most cases the actual size of
individual plots is fairly accurately
reported, but the tendency is to re-

20 OCTOBER 1947

port some of the plots as in less
productive use than in fact they
actually are. Thus wheat and rye land
may be reported as in fodder crops,
meadows, or even as uncultivated.

The extent of such practices has
been the subject of careful checks by
Military Government in the various
Laender, In Wuerttemberg-Baden the
Tesearches of one active American
investigator disclosed unreported pro-
ductive land equal in total to an
entire Kreis,

LTHOUGH in some Kreise as much
as 10 percent of the land actually

in crops has been reported in less pro-
ductive uses, actual extent of under-
reporting is probably only about four
to five percent, In determining fiscal
and import requirements of the oc-
cupying powers the German figures
are always increased by the estimated
percent of under-reporting.

Preliminary estimates of grain and
pulse yields are made each year in
June and July and of potatoes in
July and August, by the land sta-
tistical offices which use a con-
siderable staff of honorary appraisers.

Actually, the delivery obligation
for all major food crops is not simply

<

each individual's quota, but
rather his total harvest less
certain limited retention allowances.
Therefore, a conservative estimate of
the harvest need not, in theory, result
in lower collections. In practice, how-
ever, every pressure put on the Ger-
man farmers and administrators to
increase their efforts to obtain col-
lections has resulted in additional
deliveries, and it is most important
to keep the delivery quotas high
enough to represent the entire
available crop without setting an
impossible goal.

The official yield estimates are not
made for individual farmers but are
made for the separate Kreise, That is,
each crop estimator evaluates the
yields of the principal crops for the
areas for which he is responsible;
and these estimates are then com-
bined to give estimated average
yields first for the Kreis and then
for the Land as a whole, It is not
easy to correct such estimates merely
by sample checks made by Military
Government as the number of US
personnel is sufficient only to inspect
a very small percent of all farms.
In some Laender, official production

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
weights must now be recorded at the
time of the harvest of grains and
potatoes.

A method of “spot-checking” German
yield estimates is now being worked
out which will be applied to the potato
harvest this fall, and which should
greatly improve future estimates.
Under this system, a random sample
of the crop estimators will be
selected, and then a very careful
sample will be taken of the yields of
the particular area for which the
crop estimator in question was
responsible, It is believed that it is
possible to sample nearly 10 percent
of the individual crop estimators and
to determine from the results any
over-all bias in the official figures.

(iE LIVESTOCK census is taken

each year in June and December.
It has proved considerably less
accurate than the other production
estimates discussed above, The
number of larger animals—such as
cattle, “oxen, and horses—is fairly
well reported, with the estimate of
under-reporting usually less than
five percent, For smaller animals,
however, such as sheep, goats, and
particularly pigs and chickens, the
understatement may run as high (in
local areas) as 30 to 50 percent.

The Germans had under-reported
livestock principally to avoid having
to slaughter and deliver animals
under the livestock adjustment pro-
gram. The present severe drought,
however, has so reduced fodder that
livestock is being slaughtered at a
markedly increased rate, which prom-
ises soon to complete the program.

Once the over-all crop estimates
are determined, the various Land
collection quotas are worked out by
the German bizonal authorities in
consultation with the US/UK Group.
From the total harvest, certain
established allowances are deducted
for seed, self-supplier retentions, and
for unavoidable spoilage—and the
entire balance is subject to delivery.

The delivery quotas for the various
products are then broken down among
the Kreise within the Land, according
to historic and current. statistical
records, Within the Kreis the allo-
cation to communities and farms is
made on the basis of experience, and
records showing the planting quotas
of the individual farmer,

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

eee one

FROM THE ROYAL box, American occupation officials applaud a performance

given by the Wiesbaden Opera Company at the reopening of the world-famed

music hall at Wiesbaden. Among those in the box were Lt. Gen. Clarence R.

Huebner, EUCOM chief of staff; Mrs. Lucius D. Clay, wife of the US Military

Governor; Dr. James R. Newman, director of OMGH; Mrs. .Huebner, and
Christian Stock, minister president of Hesse. (PIO, OMGH)

Cultural-Material Interchange

ERMANS in the US-occupied

areas will now be permitted to
engage in a virtual world-wide inter-
change of cultural, informational and
educational material on a non-com-
mercial or gift and exchange basis,
the Information Control Division,
OMGUS, has announced.

The US Government, ICD said, will
not only permit but encourage this
interchange in furthering its policy
for German re-education which insists
that “the untrammeled pursuit of
truth is a prerequisite for the main-
tenance of justice and that free
communication between individuals,
groups and nations is a necessary
condition for national and inter-
national understanding.”

The US Government will assist in
the private interchange of cultural
material by:

Encouraging the establishment, or
when desirable, the reestablishment
within the US Zone of. Germany of
such responsible German agencies as
are competent to act for German
cultural groups, including agencies

8

designed to operate on a national
scale,

Permitting the use within the US
Zone of Germany of such govern-
mental communication and trans-
portation facilities as may be
authorized and made available by
OMGUS for the furtherance of the
cultural purposes set forth in this
paper.

Correspondence between individ-
uals, institutions and organizations
in the US Zone and in’ member
nations of the International Postal
Union (excluding Japan and Spain)
regarding exchanges of materials, or
arranging for receipt and employment
of materials for non-commercial cul-
tural purposes, shall also be per-
mitted.

The transmittal of cultural materials
from the US Zone to the United
States, or elsewhere, shall be subject
to the approval of OMGUS and shal}
be permitted only in so far as those
materials are not needed in the re-
education of the German people.

20 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
IHE RECENT FORMATION of a
nine-party Communist coalition in
Belgrade was seen by the presse in the
United States as a potential weapon
against the Marshall Plan and a
threat to European economic recovery.

Editorials emphasized that the prin-
cipal method of countering this new
Communist move must be speedy
implementation of the aid program
for Europe and strengthening of
efforts to contain Soviet expansion
along the lines of the Truman
Doctrine and through the United Na-
tions.

The New York Times, after noting
that the new organization widens the
breach between Russia and her satel-
lites, on one side, and the rest of
the world on the other, said that the
Soviet Union has taken the offensive
and has declared “nothing less than
a propaganda war against the United
States and those who would stand
with us in defense of principles.”

The Times continued: “Not the
least ominous part of that propaganda
offensive is that it is being waged not
in terms of the old Communist ideo-
logy of world revolution rejected by
the great majority of mankind, but
in terms of power politics...

“Soviet Russia, swollen by con-
guests, is proclaiming herself cham-
pion of peace, national sovereignty
and democracy, and denounces as
‘imperialists’ and “‘aggressors’ all
those who would check her own ag-
gression. The significance of this
brazen inversion of the meaning of
words and the blatant utilization of
the big lie... is obvious.

“The new Communist Manifesto
tears to shreds all wartime agree-
ments from the Atlantic Charter to
Potsdam, and is bound to have serious
repercussions upon the United Na-
tions, already paralyzed by Russian
ebstruction, One positive element in
it is the fact that it further clarifies
Russian intentions and finally stamps
Communist parties as tools of Russian
imperialism...

“The latest Russian move can only
give new impetus to the organization

20 OCTOBER 1947

of the democratic world in self-de-
fense. And the first step of that de-
fense must be the rehabilitation of
western Europe. The new Comintern
has again demonstrated the need and
urgency of both the Truman Doctrine
and the Marshall Plan.”

The New York Herald Tribune:
“The importance of the announce-
ments which accompany the formation
of the new Communist International
lies not so much in what is said, but
in the fact that now, at last, it has
been said. There is no change of po-
licy in the program that has been set
forth; no about-face comparable with
those that have, in the past, forced
American Communists to swallow
hard in the middle of a sentence and
begin rationalizing attacks on new
enemies,

“This is, instead, a statement of the
policy that the Russians, and their
friends in other countries have been
pursuing with growing single-minded-
ness ever since the war ended; a
Statement that the world is being
divided into two hostile camps, ex-
pressed so clearly that there is no
longer any excuse for failing to rec-
ognize it as an established fact.”

The Washington Post: “Our own
view is that the announcement is
merely a tactical move ... that it
was aimed at European waverers who
can be frightened into the Soviet fold
by ghosts that Moscow conjures up
as American warmongers...

“The new announcement shows
dread lest American Aid and the
Marshall Plan succeed in putting
heart into Europe. It should persuade
our government to develop steam
back of the Aid Program. More than
that, it should fill the American
people as well as the government
with a sense of personal responsi-
bility. In these crucial days, we
should all live our lives and run our
businesses as if we were operating
the Marhall Plan on our ewn...”

The Philadelphia Inquirer: “There
can be only one answer by the Uni-
ted States to this challenge of inter-
national Communism as well as to

9

who are opposi in
the United Nation: 1

“It is to push with renewed courage
and determination our campaign to
make the Marshall Plan a success; to
speed stopgap aid to western Europe;
to turn sternly away from any ap-
peasement of the lords of the Polit-
buro; to restrain at all points activi-
ties of American Communists and to
strengthen quickly and thoroughly
our own defenses.

“We must not, we dare not, ignore
the threat of international Commu-
nism on the march against our efforts
for a stable, prosperous, peaceful
world.”

The Philadelphia Bulletin: “If there
were no other reason for concerted
American support of the Administra-
tion plan to feed hungering peoples
overseas, the timely revelation of the
Communist conspiracy against the
democracy of Europe and of the world
would give ample motive.”

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch: “Per-
haps the most interesting thing about
this maneuver is that France and Italy
are included among the nine countries
Moscow is trying to form into a block.
This serves notice on the West that
Moscow has high hopes of detaching
these nations from the West. It also
warns ... the President and Congress
that stopgap aid should go quickly
to France and Italy. In neither coun-
try can Communism win unless it is
preceded by starvation and despair.”

William Philip Simms, foreign news
editor, in the New York World-Tele-
gram said: “That the Kremlin fears its
plans may be upset by the United
States is now apparent. Revolution
feeds on hunger, cold, suffering and
despair... the things that, through the
Marshal] Plan and other methods, the
United States is seeking to prevent.
Patently, if the United States succeeds,
American prestige will soar and that
of Moscow will suffer. If it fails now
when so many are expecting so much
from America, Moscow has reason
to hope that Europe, at least, will be
ripe for revolution.”

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Storage of Class V Supplies at
Military Posts, AG 471 ORD-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 15 September 1947. Concerns
the establishment of storage points to
fill small requirements.

Circular No, 81, Hq EUCOM,
25 September 1947. Concerns “Main-
tenance of Law and Order Among
United Nations Displaced Persons.”

Advance Copy of Change 3 to
Title 15, Manpower Administration,
AG 010.6 (MD), OMGUS, 20 Septem-
ber 1947. Gives substitution for MGR
15-740.3 in Change 2. This provides
for the elimination of the 30 Septem-
ber 1947 deadline in subparagraph b
of the rescinded paragraph.

Annex “A” to Staff Memorandum
No. 39, OMGUS, 29 September 1947.
Concerns the term “War Department”
which is henceforth designated as
“Department of the Army.”

General Order No. 106, Hq EUCOM,
29 September 1947. Section I —
EUCOM Central Welfare Fund.
Rescinds Sec I, USFET, General
Orders No. 95, 1946; Section II —
Shoulder Sleeve Insignia, Gives sub-
Stitution for para 5, General Orders
No. 10, Hq EUCOM, 1947; Section III
— Discontinuance of Military Post of
Grafenwéhr and Bad Télz. States
that 1 January 1948 the area formerly
assigned to the post Bad Télz will be
incorporated into the military post of
Munich; Section IV — Announcement
of Assignment. Refers to the Renum-
bering of General Order No. 100 as
General Orders No. 101; Section V —
Establishment of Audit Agency,
European Command. Gives substitu-
tion for paragraph 1. Sec I, General
Orders No. 9, Hq EUCOM 1947.

Personnel Bulletin H-39, Promotion
of Enlisted Personnel on Duty with
OMGUS Staff OFFICES/DIVISIONS,
OMGUS, 29 September 1947.

Circular No. 82, Hq EUCOM,
29 September 1947, Section I — Ab-
sence Without Leave, Gives substitu-
tion for Par 3a, Cir 32, Hq EUCOM,
1947, Section II — Authority to Ap-
point a Junior of Several Officers of
Same Grade Within a Command as
Commander Thereof. Rescinds Sec III,

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Cir 74, Hq USFET 1946 and gives
applicable paragraph. Section III —
Leave to the United States. Gives
substitution for Par 2, Sec IV, Cir 8,
Hq USFET, 1947. Section IV —
Reassignment of Officers, Section V
— Reports Control System. Section VI
-—— Overseas Separation. Section VII
— Rescissions.

General Orders No. 107, Military
Justice, Hq EUCOM, 30 September
1947, Gives substitutions for General
Orders No, 219, USFET, 27 July 1947
and cites the location of each general
court-martial jurisdiction point for
persons subject to militariy law.

Advance Copy of Change 2 to
Title 3, Political Activities, AG 010.6
(CA) OMGUS, 1 October 1947, Gives
text of MGR 3-303 and MGR 3-304,

Maintenance Memo No. 7, Hq
EUCOM, 1 October 1947, Gives the
results of August 1947 EUCOM Com-
mand Maintenance Inspections,

Military Government General Order
No, 4 “Providing for Disposition of
Certain Coal Properties.” AG 010.6
(ED), OMGUS, 1 October 1947,

Staff Memorandum No. 46, Correct-
ed Copy of Implementation Proce-
dure on Quadripartite and Bipartite
Decisions,, OMGUS, 2 October 1947.
Gives substitution for Staff Memoran-
dum No. 10, 18 February 1947.

Revision of Information Control
Regulation No. 1, AG 010.6 (IC),
OMGUS, 3 October 1947, Rescinds
Information Control Regulation No. 1

and gives cubstitution “Regulation
No. 3.”
OMGUS Action on _  Laenderrat

Request INT 24-2, AG 014.1 (SG),
OMGUS, 3 October 1947. Concerns
“Amendment to, Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Milita-
tism.”

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters,

10

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Requests L 23-1 and L 23-4, AG 014.1
(SG), OMGUS, 3 October 1947. Con-
cerns “Draft Law Concerning Privi-
leges to Severely Disabled Persons”
and “Proposal for Recognition of
Problems Industries.”

General Orders No. 109, Establish-
ment of European Command VD
Control Council, Hq EUCOM,
3 October 1947, Gives substitution for
General Orders No. 162 and 203,
USFET.

Foreign-Owned Firm
In Bavaria Decontrolled

The Thormann & Stiefel A. G., Augs-
burg, has become the first foreign-
owned firm in Bavaria to be released
from Military Government Property
Control under a new directive pro-
viding for the decontrolling of any
property which is owned more than
50 percent by Allied or neutral nation-
als, the Property Control Branch,
OMGB, announced.

A building and construction firm
with assets totalling 7,000,000 Reichs-
mark, which is 79 percent owned by
a Swiss company, Thormann & Stiefel
has been released to a German rep-
resentative of the owners for nor-
mal operations, It will still be subject
to certain MG financial restrictions,
however.

Mail to German PW’s
In Italy Discontinued

Mail to German prisoners of war in
Italy can no longer be accepted by
the Deutsche Post due to the imminent
repatriation of all such personnel.

The Administrative Department and
Telecommunications at Frankfurt has
been requested to notify all Deutsche
Post agencies in the US-UK Zones
that such mail on hand or received in
the future must be returned to thé
sender. Allied headquarters in Italy
had advised that the last repatriation
train will leave sometime late in Oc-
tober. This will complete the return
of all prisoners of war held by the
Allies in that country.

20 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
LAENDERRAT ADDRESSED ON ANNIVERSARY

On the second anniversary of the
creation of the Laenderrat as the inter-
state coordinating body in the US
Zone, Maj. Gen. George P. Hays,
Deputy Military Governor, addressed
its meeting on 7 October in Stuttgart,
in the absence of General Lucius D.
Clay, the Military Governor, who was
in Washington for conferences. General
Hays spoke as follows:

IENERAL CLAY has asked me to

extend to you his regrets that he
was unable to be with you on the
second anniversary

dures will be developed which will
clear up the follower cases promptly.
Military Government officials will
cooperate fully to accomplish this
purpose. But we feel, and we know
you feel that this expeditious process
should make us even more determined
to find and punish the real culprits
who were responsible for the Nazi
ideology.

There have been many comments
by many segments of the German
population with respect to further

many years because of basic shortages

of coal and transport for their use.
By the time these plants could have
been put into operation, their value
would have been seriously impaired.
The plants that are not needed for the
new level of industry are therefore
going to be dismantled and returned
to those countries who suffered severe-
ly under Nazi aggression; countries
which, because of Nazi aggression,
are still unable to be fully self-
supporting and to maintain a reason-
able livelihood for

of the Laenderrat.
He recalled that on
the first annivers-
ary, he took a great
pleasure in congrat-
ulating you on the
courage and stead-
fastness with which
you had served the
German people,
and now on the
second anniversary,
you have gained
additional respect
because you have
further represented
the interests of the
German people. All
Military Govern-
ment personnel join
with General Clay
in our very best
wishes for your fu-
ture administration.

Reparations Policy Told to Germans

A detailed explanation of the US reparations policy in Ger-
many was given to the German people by Dr. Don Humphrey, deputy
director of the Economics Division, OMGUS, in a recent statement
over the German radio network in the US occupied areas. A trans-
lation of his statement follows in part:

JHE GERMAN press has been filled with criticism and recrim-
ination during the past several weeks on the subject of repar-
ations and dismantling operations.

One economist asked for a “clear moratorium” on dismantlings
and said that the Revised Bizonal Level of Industry Plan bears in
itself the seeds of revision. Another has stated that it is very “un-
economical” to transfer machinery to other countries, and that it
would be better for all concerned if this same machinery were kept
in Germany and if reparations were paid out of current production.

Others have tried to demonstrate that the industrial capacity
remaining in the western zones is lower than estimated by our
specialists and set. forth in the Revised Bizonal Level of Industry
Plan which was promulgated last 29 August.

(Continued on Page 15)

their people. The
plants that are to
be dismantled and
returned to these
countries represent
a very small per-
centage of the loss
which these coun-
tries incurred as
a result of the Nazi
aggression.

The German peo-
ple are now re-
ceiving outside aid
in large amounts to
help them restore
their own economy.
In view of this fact,
the Military Gov-
ernment _ believes
that the German
people should rec-
ognize their own
responsibilities and

Both Military
Government personnel and German
governmental authorities have long
felt there was a need for a speedup of
the denazification processes which at
the same time would not let the real
culprits escape.

In response to the wishes of the
ministers-president, Military Govern-
ment has now approved a measure
which should permit a completion of
denazification during the first half of
next year. Military Government now
hopes the German authorities will
develop procedures so that prose-
cutors may quickly determine those
to be charged as major offenders
without interferring with the present
rate of trial, and that separate proce-

20 OCTOBER 1947

dismantling of plants for reparations.
It has not been, nor is it now, the
desire of Military Government to hold
the German people to an industrial
level under which they can neither be
self-sufficient nor hold their self res-
pect. As a result of bizonal confer-
ences, the level of industry has now
been substantially raised and the
present level of industry has been set
at such a high mark that it will take
the utmost effort of all the German
people to reach this level of pro-
duction in a five-year period or more.
However, there are certain plants that
are not required to maintain this new
level of industry and these plants if
they were retained would be idle for

11

cooperate in a pro-
gram that under the circumstances
can only be considered a just one.

HE GERMAN COUNCIL, through
their Executive Committee, has
now issued instructions and set quotas
for collection of grain, and also issued
ordinances for the collection of meat
and potatoes.

I wish to emphasize first that these
are minimum quotas and that Military
Government expects these quotas to
be exceeded. Second, that it is upon
these quotas that our imports of food
for each Land are based. Therefore, if
you fail to collect the quotas set, your
own people are the ones who will
suffer through the neglect of their

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
own officials. I wish to point out to
you that this is a matter of the great-
est urgency.

As you know there is a world-wide
food shortage. The people of the
United States are making great sacri-
fices to previde food for the German
people. Only yesterday, the distil-
leries and breweries of the United
States voluntarily took action to reduce
their use of grain by fifty percent.
General Eisenhower has directed that
the bread ration of our own soldiers
be reduced for the noon and evening
meals, The eyes of the world are
therefore on the German people; this
is your initial great postwar test to
show the world that it can deal with
the German people with confidence.

It is essential that you, as govern-
mental officials, promptly take steps
to collect every grain of cereal and
gather every potato, no matter how
small, and provide appropriate and
prompt penalties for anyone who per-
mits any food to be lost through black
market operations,

I point out to you again that the
quotas set are the minimum we felt
we should establish on the basis of
present knowledge of the crops and
we expect these quotas to be mate-
rially exceeded by actual collection in
each Land,

'N REGARD to the Land Reform Law,

instructions have recently gone out
to the ministers-president that must
take the property referred to in the
law under the control of their state
settlement authority by 31 December
1947, By “taking under control” by
that date, what is meant is that this
property will be taken for use and
possession, and the actual question of
ownership will naturally have to wait
for court action at a later date. As
you know this is a measure that was
agreed to by the Council of Foreign
Ministers and is binding on all Mili-
tary Government. It is a measure
which in our opinion is essential in
order to break up excessive concen-
tration of wealth and holdings, and to
prevent these large landowners and
excessively wealthy men from again
dragging Germany into waging an
aggressive war,

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Moreover, this Land Reform Law is
also necessary to take care of the
many peoples of German origin who
have been expelled from their former
homes and are now living in the
American Zone. Also, it is necessary
because. of the great shortage of food
that all land receive more intensified
farming. This can only be done if
these large properties are distributed
among more owners who are inter-
ested in a high rate of production.
The actions of the ministers-president
in this matter so far have been most
disappointing. I therefore, urge you
to take immediate and prompt steps
to implement this plan without further
delay.

N THE 11 March of this year the

Laenderrat transmitted to Mili-
tary Government a draft of a resti-
tution law prepared by your expert§
together with a resolution in which
you asked Military Government to
consider certain points with respect
to which you had reservations con-
cerning this draft.

Your resolution has received the
fullest consideration from Military
Government... We submitted the
proposal based on your draft to the
Allied Control Authority in April 1947.
Discussions of these proposals have
been carried on continuously since
that time but it now appears that
agreement on a quadripartite basis is
not possible in the foreseeable future.
Similarly, it has not been possible to
agree on the text of a tripartite or
bipartite law.

It is now two and a half years since
the elimination of the Nazi Socialist
regime and no steps have yet been
taken to restore to their rightful owners
the property which Nazi victims were
forced to relinquish. The necessity of
such immediate restitution was recog-
nized by you in your resolution of
11 March.

It has therefore been decided to
proceed immediately with a restitution
law covering the American Zone and
Land Bremen. This law will be based
on the draft submitted by you although
slightly modified to relax the burden
of certain provisions on the resti-
tution.

It will be for you to decide
whether this law shall be enacted by

12

you, through the Laenderrat, or by
Military Government. Certainly, it is
our opinion that the Laenderrat should
accept this responsibility.

Shortage of Tankers
Cuts Gas Allocations

October gasoline and diesel oil
allocations for all Laender in the
Combined US-UK Zones have been
sharply cut because of lack of tanker °
shipping space.

The occupying powers and the bi-
zonal economics department advised
the Laender to reduce allocations for
Passenger cars and to revoke the
licenses for some of them,

Up to now the Laender received
three-month allocations which made
possible more flexible disposition ac-
cording to requirements.

The new monthly allocation system
will hamper the harvest, it was
stated, as the Laender will not be
able to allot additional gas in Oc-
tober to meet increased requirements
and deduct them from the following
two months’ quotas.

BAGS OF FLOUR are being unloaded
from a ship which arrived from Bre-
men. Approximately 1,000 to 1,500
tons of food are arriving monthly by
waterway at Frankfurt-am-Main as
Part of the winter supply for Hesse.

(DENA Bild)

20 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 16 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Democracy Now

The Frankfurter Neue Presse urged
Germans not to wait until some fu-
ture time to start taking democracy
seriously.

“We are too realistic to identify
democracy with the Golden Age,” the
paper said, “We know we face dec-
ades of hard work and disappoint-
ment... We must fight the tendency
to give in to difficulties... The hour
when the new form of government
must prove itself is here and must be
utilized... Black market, corruption,
embezzlement are not the monopolies
of a democracy...

“It is not difficult to make friends
for a regime in times of prosperity
and political balance... To defend
democracy today... requires the cour-
age of faith and not cheap excuses.”

Minister Criticized

The Frankfurter Rundschau quoted
a Frankfurt radio discussion on the
question: “Are we disappointed by
the political parties.” One of the
participants, Hessian Minister of Jus-
tice Zinn, made the statement: “We
live under a military dictatorship of
the Western type.”

The paper answered that he refuted
himself by speaking on a Military
Government station, aside from the
fact “that he could become a Min-
ister freely elected by the people
and the parliament because we are
not subservient to a military dicta-
torship.”

The Giessener Freie Presse calls
Zinn‘s statement “an argument of poli-
tical foolishness and just at the moment
when the head of one of the occu-
pation powers has called upon its
citizens to restrict their own food
consumption in our favor, a gross
offense against good taste.”

The paper said that it had its own
objections to the actions of Military
Government in regard to democracy,
but that they were based on the con-
viction that Military Government had
overestimated the amount of political

20 OCTOBER 1947

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
Teaders among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not ne-
cessarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

insight and the ability and readiness
for democracy that at present exists
in Germany.

Germany and Socialism

The Frankfurter Rundschau said it
would be dangerously easy to arouse
a “dormant nationalistic instinct” over
the issue of coming dismantlings, and
that it therefore will be the duty of
German political leaders to emphasize
the potentialities of the industry left
to Germany,

“We do not wish to underestimate
the heavy problem of the dismantl-
ings...” The paper said.

“The real problem is to see to it
that what is produced by general
effort be in the future applied to the
general welfare... When the German
working class definitely realizes that
socialism will be a fact in the recon-
structed German economy, it will...
bring about our regeneration. Only
in this way can we prevent the dem-
agoguery which followed World
War I, with the disastrous talk about
the ‘chains of Versailles’.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung also called
for socialism. “Doesn't the Industrial
Plan for the Bizonal area provide the
basis... For socialization? Produc-
tion limits are set for steel, machines,
precision instruments, automobiles,
chemicals, cement. Isn't it clear that
this is not an economy of abundance,
but one of scarcity where production
and distribution have to follow a
well — considered plan — whether we

13

like
pear as an evil to son
it is a~necessary evil. An‘“ind
plan calls for a planned industry, or
doesn't it?”

Reparations Policy

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten criti-
cized the reparations policy in the US
Zone.

“We cannot understand this dis-
mantling policy!” “It seems to us that
it is killing the goose that is to lay
the golden egg. And this at a time
when there are signs of the be-
ginning of European solidarity!”

The paper also warned German
workers against striking.

“General Clay has spoken very
sharply against possible strikes and
demonstrations which he evidently
expects as reaction to the removal of
the work places of thousands upon
thousands of industrious German
workers... He has threatened that
such senseless action, as he calls it,
will react on food shipments from
America. This shames and depresses
us, We haven't the means to prevent
strikes... We must reckon with the
demagogic abuse of our hungry work-
ers by political agitators... The
effects of privation, hunger and cold
will be increased if there is to be in-
discriminate dismantling in the West,
too... Will the common sense of our
working class suffice to prevent strik-
es and demonstrations? We hope sol
We pray that it be sol”

Views on UN Debates

The Suedost Kurier (Bad Reichen-
hall) exhorted the people to keep cool
in the face of the warlike speeches
at United Nations sessions.

“Apparently the international states-
men always become especially irri-
table at the end of summer... Also
one must realize that many of these
speeches were really addressed to
the gallery... The delegates want to
hear the echo in their national press:

P99

‘Boy! He really gave it to them!’”...

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
The remark by Hector McNeil that
the November meeting in London
would be the last chance for peace
will surely turn out to have been a
false prophecy, It is a remark only
too likely to depress and paralyze—
but there have been any number of
conferences in our immediate past
that started under similar handicaps
and yet led to further negotiations.
It is quite possible that after London
the Western powers will conclude a
separate peace with us, just as they
have made a separate plan for in-
dustry, because Potsdam is dead and
nobody will shed a tear for it... But
war means dirt, fear and death.
Therefore let us assume that those
speeches at Flushing Meadows were
‘impressive rhetorical performances’—
they could not have been anything
more.”

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth)
minimized the danger of war re-
sulting from the violent debates in
the UN, but found “that all European
peoples, including the German, view
with consternation this new phase
of mutual recrimination and suspicion.
Happily, despite what may be said to
the contrary, there is a strong feeling
in Germany that any disturbance of
our present attempt at reconstruction
can only make matters worse, In
case of a new conflict Germany has
everything to lose and nothing to
gain.”

Jewish Problem

The Der Neue Tag (Weiden) con-
sidered the Jewish problem under the
twin aspects of the announced British
intention to lay down the Palestine
mandate and the ‘Exodus’ incident:

“That two years after the end of
bloody anti-semitism such a thing
was possible as the ‘Exodus’ affair is
food for deep thought. This affair,
seen as a symptom, motivates the
irresistible urge of the Jews for a
patch of soil that really is their home.
It is true that little Palestine, in the
part that is intended for them, cannot
accommodate all the world’s Jews. But
they want a national home in the
political sense. Only then can their
secret goal be achieved—to have a
voice and be respected as Jews among
the nations.”

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Continued from Page 4)

Civil Aviation

manders to act on a unilateral basis
in facilitating the provision of such
civil aviation services for the in-
dividual zones as each one deems
appropriate. With respect to the
US Zone of Germany, authorizations
to conduct flights into or over the
US Zone are granted on a reciprocal
basis to air carriers of other nations.

Frankfurt is the natural hub of the
civil air route pattern in Germany. It
might well be called the crossroads
of civil aviation in Central Europe
because of its central geographical
position with respect to centers of
population and industry. There are at
present thirteen scheduled air carriers
authorized to land at Frankfurt (Rhein/
Main) for the purpose of discharging
and taking on passengers, mail and
cargo. In addition, many charter oper-
ators and non-scheduled carriers are
granted individual authorization to
conduct flights into Germany for tech-
nical and traffic stops, and overflight
of Germany on European and inter-
national air routes. Each of these
flights is subject to economic, political
and security regulation and must
obtain proper clearance on a flight to
flight basis.

Emanating from Frankfurt are routes
leading to Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam,
Berlin, Bremen, Prague, Zurich,
Nuremberg and Vienna which fit into
the international route scheme. Air-
ports installations and air navigation
aids established by the Allied military
forces along these routes during and
after the war are available to civil
aviation to the greatest possible ex-
tent to which they can serve both
military and civil operations. Every
possible effort is being made to in-
sure the safety of civil air operations
in Germany through implementation
of ICAO recommendations for faci-
lities, services, and operational stand-
ards in coordinated actions with sur-
rounding member nations.

ITH THE ECONOMIC union of

the US-British Zones of Ger-
many, and the development of plans
for early rehabilitation of the eco-
nomically-fused zones at an agreed
level, it became apparent that certain
civil aviation problems automatically
became of joint US-British interest. In

14

1947, the Bipartite Economic PaneB
established a Working Party to study
civil aviation matters of mutual in-
terest to the combined zones, As a
result of this Working Party report,
the Bipartite Board approved the
establishment of a Bipartite Civil
Aviation Panel composed of the Head,
Civil Air Branch, Control Council
Group (British Element) and Chief,
Civil Aviation Branch, OMGUS. ‘While:
civil aviation responsibilities for the
two zones were to remain with the in-
dividual Zone Commanders, the Bi-
partite Civil Aviation Panel acts in an.
advisory capacity, studying civil avia—
tion problems of mutual interest to
the two zones, and making joint re-
commendations to the Zone Comman-
ders,

With the increasing importance of
civil aviation activity, the Theater
Commander directed that a nucleus
Civil Aviation unit be established
within the Armed Forces Division,
OMGUS. This Civil Aviation Branch,
organized in January 1947 and headed
by Col. Glynne M. Jones, is staffed
with US civilian technicians,

In conjunctions with USAFE plan-
ners, and in line with US national
policies and multi-lateral agreements,
studies are currently being made to
determine the type of civil air ser-
vices required to meet the future
needs of the Occupation Forces and
the economies of Germany and ad-
jacent nations.

Civil aviation requirements of the
US Zone are integrated with the over-
all requirements of Europe through
US participation im the European Re-
gional Meetings of the International
Civil Aviation Organization. ICAO
was established through agreement
reached at the Chicago International
Civil Aviation Conference of 1944.
This world-wide postwar cooperative
effort is aimed at a free, orderly and
safe expansion of international air
transportation and commerce,

It is hoped that universal: recog-
nition of the importance of cooper-
ative international civil aviation as an
instrument of world peace and under-
standing will enable eventual partici-
pation of the Allied Control Council
in ICAO activities, on behalf of Ger-
many as a whole and for the benefit
of all peaceful nations.

Hl 20 OCTOBER 1947

--- Page 18 ---
(Continued from Page 11)
Reparations Policy

The background of the reparations
problem is known to all. The nations
ravaged by German armies and those
other nations who sacrificed their
men and resources to bring about
the defeat of the German armies
agreed that Germany should make
compensation in kind, to the greatest
extent possible, for the destruction
and loss caused by German aggression.

This decision was not taken in a
spirit of vengeance nor did it call
for full retribution. Had it done so,
the industrial resources of all of
Germany would not have sufficed to
pay the bill.

The decision as later implemented
by the Allied Control Council called
for the destruction of Germany's war
plants, It then provided for the re-
tention in Germany of sufficient in-
dustrial capacity to permit the Ger-
mans to achieve a standard of living
equal to that of the rest of Europe.
Industrial plants above this level
were to be made available for
reparations.

HE WAR PLANTS have now been

largely destroyed. A_ limited
number of reparations plants which
were selected in the fall of 1945 for
immediate delivery have been or
are now being sent abroad as re-
parations. But beyond this point, no
plant removals have taken place in
the US and British Zones of Oc-
cupation. This delay is not due to
any change of heart on the part of
the Allies on the agreed principle of
reparations.

It has been due to the fact that
in calculating the level of industry
required for Germany's continued
existence, it had been agreed that
the whole of Germany was to be
treated as one economic unit. This
agreement has not been carried out,
and it is quite obvious that the in-
dustrial capacity required to support
Germany as a whole will not suffice
to support the several parts of a
divided Germany.

When, more than a year after
the original Level of Industry Plan
had been agreed upon, no progress
toward economic unification had

20 OCTOBER 1947

been made, US and British authorities
determined that a new plan should
be prepared to determine the in-
dustrial capacity necessary to make
the Bizonal Area self-supporting, and
that the plants not required for this
new plan should be immediately
made available to carry out the
reparations agreement.

The new plan has now been
completed, It leaves in Germany the
productive capacity required to per-
mit the Bizonal Area to achieve a
decent standard of living without
subsidies from the US and British
Governments. The number of plants
in the bizonal area to be released for
teparations is thus very greatly
reduced below that envisaged in the
original plan for all of Germany.
This reduced number of plants will
repay but a small fraction of the
destruction inflicted by Germany on
the Allies. They must and will be

delivered in accordance with the
instructions of Military Govern-
ment...

t IS NOT the objective of Military

Government to so impoverish the
bizonal area of Germany that it
cannot support itself, The plants to
be left in the US-UK Zones of Ger-
Many are sufficient to provide a
decent standard of living for the
bizonal area, if the people of the
two zones are prepared to go hon-
estly to work and to obtain the full
output of these factories. If they are
not willing to work, no number of

plants will be of any avail. To argue’

at this time the theoretical merits
and demerits of the reparations plan,
or of the removal of a particular
plant, is completely unprofitable.
Military Government is now supply-
ing hundreds of millions of dollars
of food, it is providing raw material
imports, it is supporting and assisting

the German authorities in their
efforts to restore industrial pro-
duction, The necessary industrial

plants will remain in Germany to
permit a 150 percent increase over
the current level of production.
Every available worker will be
needed to reach this goal, The respon-
sibility for success or failure lies
squarely upon the will to live and
the will to work of the German
population.

15

Employment Increases
3.4 percent in US Zone

MPLOYMENT in the US Zone in
the six-month period ending on
30 June increased from 7,240,000 to
7,486,000, a net gain of 3.4 percent,
and exceeded the May 1939 figure
by 0.4 percent, according to the latest
manpower survey of the Reports and
Statistics Branch of the Manpower Di-
vision, OMGUS,

Of the number of gainfully occupied
on 30 June, 4,719,000 were wage and
salary earners and 2,767,000 were self-
employed and family helpers, Male
workers accounted for 61 percent of
the total number of gainfully occupied
and for 69 percent of wage and salary
earners.

The largest gains in employment
were in industry and _ handicrafts
where the increase was 5.1 percent,
for a total of 2,713,000,

As compared with May 1939, the
greatest gain in employment occurred
in the woodworking and clothing and
shoe industries, where the increase
was 37 and 23 percent, respectively.
Of the 2,713,000 gainfully occupied in
industry and handicrafts on 30 June,
513,000, or nearly 19 percent, were
self-employed.

Public and private services also
showed a material increase, from
915,000 in December 1947 to’ 976,000
on 30 June, a gain of 6.7 percent.

Employment in agriculture in-
creased from 2,479,000 to 2,488,000.
However, compared with the May
1939 figure, this represents an in-
crease of 4.8 percent.

By the end of Juy, unemployment
declined to a new low of 305,000 of
whom 82,000 were women. This com-
pares with 488,000 registered un-

employed in December 1946 and
589,000 in January 1946.
Localized labor shortages have

been reported in several industrial
communities,

Gardens Increase in Hesse
The number of fruit and vegetable
plots in operation in Hesse under
the Land Garden Program increased
by 17 percent during 1947, the OMGH
Food and Agriculture Branch an-
nounced.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 19 ---
What are the latest policies and
programs of Military Government?

What are the major problems
of the Liaison and Security officers?

HE ANSWERS to these two

questions—the former represent-
ing the highest level of US occu-
pational authorities and the latter
that of the MG echelon closest to the
average, every-day activities of the
German people—many times need
coordination and clarification.

The over-all purposes of the occu-
pation, as laid down by the US Gov-
ernment, by joint action of other
cooperating powers seeking unifica-
tion of Germany and by quadripartite
agreement, are interpreted and im-
plemented into laws, directives, and
instructions by the

so much so that plans were imme-
diately inaugurated to hold similar
seminars in all Laender and on
monthly schedules,

The progress of the initial seminars
in Bavaria was directed by Lt. Col.
L.G. Kelly, deputy chief of the Policy
Enforcement Branch, CAD, He re-
peated the program on successive
days in Wiirzburg, Nuremberg, Re-
gensburg, and Munich, and each time
encouraged lively, pointed discussions
to bring out the problems confronting
the L&S officers and to seek logical
solutions.

The agenda did not attempt to
cover all of the extensive field of
Military Government but was sched-
uled to include those subjects which
seemed to be of utmost importance
at the time because of the general

reports from the German farmers,
Another L&S officer wanted to know
why so little time was given to pre-
pare and conduct the survey. It was
pointed that the harvest, being well
advanced this season because of the
drought, needed to be inspected while
it was being gathered and thrashed.
This led to explanations of how
various L&S officers, acting on their
own initiative, obtained the coopera-
tion of their subordinates and Ger-
mans to get the fullest possible
results,

The discussion on MG courts took
a different turn, Some L&S officers
cited specific cases in which they
were puzzled by the decisions. The
specialists sought to fit these inquires
into the single over-all program of
Military Government but indicated

some needed more

staff of the Mili-
tary Governor in
Berlin.

Passed on to the
ministers president

FIELD SEMINARS |

detailed explana-
tion and _ imple-
mentation from
higher levels. An

by the Land offi-

ces of Military Government, these
laws, directives, and _ instructions
become through constitutional and
occupational procedures the guiding
principles of the German people, But
it is one of the responsibilities of
every L&S officer to see that they are
operative and fulfilled in his Kreis.

But between the initiation of these
principles and their final implement-
ation many specific questions often
arise, Fuller explanation is needed
than that actually contained in the
texts of the official documents, Situa-
tions arise in the Kreise that do not
seem to be covered in the available
information.

To narrow and bridge this gap, a
Program of Field Seminars has been
initiated by the Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, to bring together
the specialists who assist in the inter-
pretation and implementation of the
policies from higher authorities and
the L&S officers who are charged
with seeing that they are carried out.

HE FIRST of these Field Seminars
was conducted late in September
in Bavaria. Because of the size of
Bavaria, four separate conferences
were held in as many days. It was an
experiment, but its value was evident,

responsibilities of the L&S officers and
the new impetus being given certain
programs,

The five subjects taken up at the
initial series were: relation of the
MGO to local German authorities,
jurisdiction and operation of MG
courts, border violations, youth ac-
tivities programs, and agriculture and
food programs, The final two periods
were devoted to other policy pro-
grams and administrative problems.

A specialist from OMGUS or the
Land MG office in the particular sub-
ject led the discussion, He briefly
outlined the latest principles and in-
structions from the policy-making
viewpoint. No attempt was made to
speak with finality, but more as an
introduction to initiating discussion
and submitting questions, These ex-
planations were brief, only 10 to
15 minutes in length, but they set the
stage for the remarks from the floor.

URING THE AGRICULTURE and

food discussion, one L&S officer
asked why the recent harvest check
was made. The specialist related how
an L&S office in Wiirttemberg-Baden,
in making a cursory inspection, found
irregularities and discrepancies in the

administrative
court official ex-
plained the reasons behind some
actions of his court. The impression
prevailed that all gained clearer
views of the work on “the other side
of the fence.”

The youth activities session brought
out the progress being made in dis-
cussion and service club groups. One
question raised by an LAS officer
who sponsored an active gathering
of some 150 Germans in unrestricted
discussion of world events was “How
can we get German-language news-
papers and periodicals published in
the United States?”

The course of the various sessions
brought to the front the question of
the thousands of refugees being settled
in Bavaria. Thus, when the time came
for other policy problems, an official
in charge of this situation in Bavaria
gave a detailed report. His ex-
planation acquained the L&S officers
with many of the problems and
activities in this field.

Just as the Troop Information and
Education Program of the US Army
makes the US troops the best in-
formed soldiers in the world, the
Field Seminars comprise one of the
greatest steps in making MG per-
sonnel in the field the best informed
Persons on MG affairs,

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF