--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 124 / 22 DECEMBER 1947

«

“CHRISTMAS CUST!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-~
ovr MARBURG
LAUTERBACH
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
i FRIEDBERG
og SODINGEN
am QBERTAUNUS|
cog

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU!
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD’

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
EIDELBERG! MOS BACH
BRUCHsAC
HEILBRONN
es BACKNANG
°

LEONBER ose
BOBLINGEN oa

ROTEN BURG

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY

INFORMATION

Review of Occupational Activities .
Christmas Customs .

German Border Problem .

Toys

German Reactions

BULLETIN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 124 22 December 1947

oan n |W N

Economic Situation in Occupied Germany, Part 5 . 10

Religious Cooperationv ee) ns ss 13

Official Instructions GNemeew tee 4s, . isoxcl6

Cover Photo

CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS—The
lighted candle, which seems to
hold such an attraction for the
little German girl signifies the
beginning of the Advent season
in Germany. The season starts on
the fourth Sunday before Christ-
mas. A story on Christmas Cus-
toms begins on page 3 of this
issue. (Photo by DENA-Bild)

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Goods Allocated to Allies

HE FIRST INSTALLMENT of goods
and raw materials which the
Soviet Union owes to the Western
Allied Nations as “reciprocal deli-
veries" under the terms of the Potsdam
Agreement, has been allocated among
the member governments of the Inter-
Allied Reparations Agency in Brussels,
the Economics Division, OMGUS,
announced.

The Potsdam Agreement specified
that Russia would make deliveries
of commodities such as food, coal,
potash, zinc, timber, petroleum pro-
ducts, and other items to be agreed
upon, equivalent to 60 percent of the
total value of capital industrial equip-
ment reparations which she and
Poland would receive from the three
Western Zones of Germany.

Up to 1 December 1947, the three
Western Zones have delivered approxi-
mately RM 100,000,000 worth of capital
industrial equipment to the USSR and
Poland.

The first delivery is expected to be
made at an early date. The Soviets
have stated they will complete the
deliveries of the first consignment
within 60 days after they receive
shipping instructions. The commodities
allocated to the United States will
be made available for the German
economy.

The General Assembly of the Inter-
Allied Reparation Agency designated
10 countries as the beneficiaries of
the first shipment of these reciprocal
deliveries, which include wheat, gaso-
line, diesel oil, pit props, and timber
valued at approximately RM 5,000,000
at 1938 price levels. The United States,
Great Britain, France, Yugoslavia,
the Netherlands, Czechoslovakia, Bel-
gium, Greece, India, and Egypt are
the recipient nations to which these
initial shipments will be made,

Discussions on the controversial
question of reciprocal deliveries have
been in progress since December 1945,
and shipments of reparations equip-
ment to Russia were commenced in
April 1946, Although it was necessary
for the Inter-Allied Reparation Agency
in behalf of the Western Allied Nations

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

to specify the nature and amount of
commodities to be delivered in this
first installment, the occupying pow-
ers of the three Western Zones of
Germany felt it necessary to stipulate
that these commodities would come
from outside of Germany or, if coming
from the Soviet Zone of Occupation
of Germany, would be in excess of
Germany's minimum economic re-
quirements, and would not be export-
able to provide funds to be applied
against the cost of occupation.

HE US ELEMENT has repeatedly
requested the Soviets to provide
reciprocal deliveries outside of Ger-
many, but the Soviets to date have
not agreed. While this major principle
has not been agreed by the USSR, the

Frank L. Howley, (above) director
of the Office of Military Government
Berlin Sector since the beginning of
the interallied occupation of Berlin,
has been recalled to active duty at
his own request. He has assumed his
former rank of colonel in the Army
of the United States, and has been
appointed US member of the Allied
Kommandatura Berlin.

2

initial shipments were arranged under
terms which do not specify the source
of the commodities to be delivered,
but provide for such shipments to be
made without jeopardizing future con-
siderations of this principle of source
which remains to be settled.

The following allocation of reci-
procal deliveries has been made by
the Inter-Allied Reparation Agency:

United States: wheat, 1,709 tons;
gasoline, 1,400 tons; diesel oil, 3,141
tons; to be delivered to OMGUS.

United Kingdom: wheat, 1,709 tons;
gasoline, 900 tons; diesel oil, 1,332
tons; pit props, 15,000 cubic meters;
timber, 14,414 cubic meters; to be
delivered to the Commander-in-Chief
of the British Zone of Germany.

France: wheat, 4,104 tons; to be
delivered to the French Group Con-
trol Council, Division of Agriculture
& Food, Berlin.

Yugoslavia: gasoline, 700 tons; die-
sel oil, 527 tons; to be delivered to the
Reparation Commission in Jesenice,
Yugoslavia, (via Rosenheim, Germany).

Netherlands: wheat, 501 tons; tim-
ber, 4,393 cubic meters; to be deliv-
ered at some place in The Hague
(via Zevenaar near Arnhem or Olden-
zaal).

Czechoslovakia: wheat, 770 tons; to
be delivered to some place in Prague
(via Brod Nad Lesy via Cheb or
Decin).

Belgium: wheat, 694 tons; to be
delivered to a place in Brussels (via
Hergenrath).

Greece: timber, 6,088 cubic meters;
to be delivered to Greek Government,
Greek Ministry of Coordination
through the intermediary of Hager &
Schmidt, G.m.b.H., Bremen,

India: wheat, 513 tons; to be deliv-
ered to Director General, Ministry
of Industries and Supplies, Govern-
ment of India, New Delhi, India, via
the intermediary of Messrs, Hogg,
Robinson & Capel-Cure, Ltd., care of
41 Movement Control, Trien Building,
Alstereck, Hamburg.

Egypt: timber, 105 cubic meters; to
be delivered to Agency Maritime, de
Keyser Thornton, S. A., 43 Longue Rue
Neuve, Antwerp (via F, Halbert & Co.,
91 Rue Lambert], Herbesthal).

22 DECEMBER 1947

--- Page 6 ---
bell will ‘tingl@on Christmas Eve

in thousands of homes in Ger-
many, particularly where children
are present. This will be the signal
for the start of a Christmas celebra-
tion that, among some families, will
extend into the early hours of the
next day.

The bell-ringing is one of the many
old Christmas customs practiced in
Germany. To the children it is a sign
that “Old Man Christmas” (Weih-
nachtsmann) is on his .way with
eagerly-awaited gifts. It heralds the
traditional singing of Christmas carols
and old German songs, the exchange
of gifts, dining, and sometines an en-
gagement announcement.

Shortly before the celebration be-
gins the children are sent for a walk
— to get them out of the way while
their parents put the finishing tovch-
es to the Christmas tree. Mother
also is busy cooking the Christmas
Eve meal.

For months she has been preparing
for this occasion, setting aside a bit
of flour, a bit of fat, and perhaps a
teaspoon of sugar from her strictly-
rationed larder, to be used in making
cookies, cakes, sweets, and other
special treats. If mother is living in
the Bizonal Area, her family’s food
supplies have been supplemented by
an extra holiday ration of slightly
more than half a pound of sweets,
authorized by the US and British
occupation authorities for each child
and youth from one to 20 years of
age.

A room reserved for the Christmas
tree also is the scene of the Christ-
mas Eve meal. The room is custom-
arily locked for a week before
Christmas while father sets up-and
decorates the tree. He places the

22 DECEMBER 1947

By Henry S. Matteo

Histories and encyclopedia
were scanned, authorities on Ger-
man folklore were consulted, and
many Germans were interviewed
by Mr. Matteo in collecting the
material for the article on Christ-
mas Customs.

Mr. Matteo, who is assistant
editor of the Weekly Infor-
mation Bullztin, was formerly
on the copy desk of The Stars
and Stripes. During and im-
mediately after the war he was
an editor with the Office of War
Information in New York, Lon-
don and Luxembourg,

Mr. Matteo worked on news-
papers in Albany, N. Y., and
Schenectady, N. Y., and was with
the United Press for seven years
in the Albany, Boston, and Hart-
ford, Conn., bureaus. He is a
native of Albany,

presents there, out. of sight of young,
prying eyes.

The tree is lighted with candles
and decorated with tinsel, cotton,
bulbs, and other ornaments much in
the same manner as in the United
States. As a matter of tradition the
Christmas tree had its origin in Ger-
many and was introduced in America
by German immigrants.

OTHER OR FATHER stands in

the room on Christmas Eve,
and rings a bell. The other members
of the family enter, singing “Stille
Nacht” and “O Tannenbaum." In
some sections of Germany the cele-
brants sing after they have entered
the room.

There is a knock on the door, and
“Old Man Christmas," attired in the
traditional red suit, black boots and
white whiskers, and carrying a gift-
laden bag on his shoulder, enters, (In
homes where there are no children,
the gifts already are under the tree
or an a nearby table). He chides the

A typical Christmas scene in a German home (Photo by BYERS)

--- Page 7 ---
children for having been naughty
during the year, and extracts a pro-
mise that they will be good. The
children recite short poems addressed
to him, then he distributes the pre-
sents from his bag, and leaves.

“Old Man Christmas" usually is
father, or a friend of the family. His
appearance and exit have led many
observant children to remark that
the Weihnachtsmann and father never
seem to be present in the room at
the same time,

The family has dinner, after which
the neighbors call to extend holiday
greetings (Froehliche Weihnachten).
Many young couples reserve Christ-
mas Eve as an occasion for announc-
ing their engagement. They stand
before the Christmas tree, and make
known their wedding plans.

INGING and dining in many homes
throughout the night.
Among some families the children are
permitted to remain up, although they
usually fall asleep before the festivi-
ties are over in the early hours of
Christmas morning.

continue

On Christmas day more neighbors
come in to visit, and to examine the
gifts. In small towns it is customary
for both adults and children to prom-
enade as a means of displaying their
presents.

As is the case in other Christian
countries, Christmas in Germany is
an occasion for both merrymaking
and reverence. In Catholic churches,
the heart of the celebration is the
créche, or crib, the realistic tableaux
in miniature of the Nativity. Mid-
night mass is celebrated as one of
the solemnities of Christ's birthday.

In Protestant churches, services
usually are held at 6 o'clock on
Christmas Eve. The churches are dec-
orated with evergreen trees and
branches, and other seasonal orna-

ments,

Two other events are observed by
the Germans in connection with
Christmas. They are the Advent sea-
son, which begins the fourth Sunday

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

before Christmas, and St. Nikolaus day
on 6 December.

On the first Sunday which begins
the Advent season, German families
light a candle ringed by an evergreen
wreath. On the second Sunday, two
candles are lighted; on the third,
three candles, and on the fourth, four
candles. This custom began hundreds
of years ago in north Germany, and
spread to other parts of the country.

The Advent season was set apart
by the Catholic Church as early as
the 6th century as a time for devo-
tional preparation. In early Christi-
anity the period comprised six weeks,
but was reduced to four during the
time of Pope Gregory VII.

4

St. Nikolaus reaches into bag for girls’ presents (DENA-Bild)

St. Nikolaus day is observed in
memory of a Roman bishop from Asia
Minor who became noted for his gen-
erosity in helping the needy, The
Germans commemorate the anniver-
sary of Nikolaus’ death (6 December
AD 345) by exchanging gifts of
sweets, cakes, and fruit. In rural sec-
tions, particularly in the southern,
Catholic part of Germany, markets
(Nikolaus-Maerkte) selling _ pastry
especially for the holiday are set up.

On St. Nikolaus eve rural children
mask and bewhisker themselves, sling
pillow-cases over their shoulders, and
carry on a spirited soliciting cam-
paign in quest of cookies, sweets, and

22 DECEMBER 1947

--- Page 8 ---
toys. They go from door to door,
They buttonhole pedestrians; and
usually their appeals are granted.

O LESS QUAINT a custom is the

practice of members of families
throughout Germany, on St. Nikolaus
eve, to place shoes under their beds
or before their doors. In some sec-
tions plates and stockings are used.
During the night, members of the
family surreptitiously place gifts in
them, The next morning the shoes,
plates and stockings are eagerly ex-
amined,

In some families, large bundles are
exchanged. The unwrapping of these
packages arouses keen curiosity, and
finally laughter. Supposed to have
been sent by St.Nikolaus, the package
is addressed to a member of the fam-
ily. Upon removal of the wrapper,
a second one is found underneath,
addressed to another family member.
This goes on until the final wrapper
is removed.

The contents usually consist of a
solitary button, a shoe string, or a
nipple. The gift is a gentle reminder
of the recipient's failings. The but-
ton, for instance, might denote his or
her habit of losing such articles. Per-
sons who break shoestrings usually
receive one as a gift. The nipple is
reserved for the incessant’. pipe.
smoker.

A custom similar to the appearance
of “Old Man Christmas" is observed
in some-sections of Germany after
dark on St. Nikolaus day. A knock is
heard on the door, and in comes
“St. Nikolaus", clad like “Old Man
Christmas”. He carries a sack over
his shoulder and a birch rod in his
hand. After the usual admonitions,
and recitations, “St. Nikolaus” hands
out nuts, apples, and sweets from his
sack. Then he leaves,

OW DID CHRISTMAS customs

originate? They go back to an-
cient times, when peoples built great
bonfires at about the same period
Christmas now is observed, in order
to give the winter sun-god strength,
and to restore his life. Rejoicing was
great when it became noticeable that
the days were growing longer. Thus
the central idea of the winter solstice

(Continued on Page 8)

22 DECEMBER 1947

SSUUUTneneea cate eccceccecaacaazcaeceacacaceeccaeaccecvacege tn cseuneoananvenacneenavaengennnaga recente

German Border Problem

A THE MOSCOW session (of the Foreign Ministers) the United
States proposed the creation of a special boundary commis-
sion which, under the direction of the deputies, would consider
and make recommendations to the Council concerning the Polish-
German frontier. On the suggestion of other members of the
Council, the United States is willing to enlarge the scope of this
work, which could still be undertaken under the direction of the
deputies, to include a study of all frontier proposals.

With regard to the Saar, the United States supports the claim
of France to the economic integration of the Saar territory. The
political status of the Saar should be based, we think, on the
principle of political autonomy and local self-government. I urge
that at this session we approve the French proposal of economic
integration of the Saar territory into that of France. After this,
the details, including territorial limits, can be worked out.

With regard to the Polish-German frontier, the starting point
for our consideration must be the Potsdam Protocol, which pro-
vided that ‘the final delimitation of the western frontier of Poland
should await the peace settlement’. Mr. Molotov presented the
view that the decision regarding the western frontier has been
taken. This is clearly not the case as the quotation just referred
to indicates.
| A just settlement of this frontier, as I stated at our meeting
in Moscow on April 9, 1947, requires that we give careful

The US view that the German-Polish boundaries remain to be fixed
and that a special boundary commission to study the issue should be
set up was reiterated by US Secretary of State Marshall in a statement
to the Council of Foreign Ministers meeting in London. Secretary
Marshall's statement also supported the French claim to the economic
integration of the Saar Valley into France. His statement is reprinted here.

consideration to the needs of the populations which will be
directly affected, and keep equally in mind the importance of this
frontier for. the economic and political stability of Europe.

No line, however carefully drawn, can entirely satisfy the
desires and aspirations of all the peoples concerned. We must
take the broader view and seek to establish a frontier which
reduces irredentist sentiment to a minimum and promises to be
lasting. At the same time the frontier should not be permitted to
become a barrier to economic and cultural intercourse. We
believe that frontiers between nations should cease to divide
and embitter, and in drawing new frontiers we should promote
this objective.

BELIEVE such a frontier is possible between Poland and Ger-

many. Poland is justly entitled to compensation for her war-
time losses and the United States Government wishes to honor
this obligation. We must bear in mind that much of the territory
now under Polish administration has long been German and con-
tains agricultural resources of vital importance to the German
and European economy.

In seeking to create a democratic and peaceful German state
we must avoid a decision which would deny hope to the moderate
forces within Germany and, by violating the principles of the
Atlantic Charter to which we have all agreed, would fail to win
approval in the court of enlightened world opinion. In consider-
ing cessions of territory to Poland, we should also make provision

(Continued on Page 15)

ee ee TTT TTT TMM ML MOLL MMMM

5 WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
'UREMBERG has for centuries

been one of the major toy
centers of the world. As far back as
the 14th century, children tugged at
their mother's kirtle, or banged on
father's armor until their pleas for
Nuremberg toys had at least been
heard. Many a feudal castle floor
became happily cluttered with the
toy products of the walled Bavarian
city.

Members of the various guilds of
this ancient German town first turned
out products for the juvenile market
generally as a sideline. By the end
of the 19th century the sideline had
become so profitable that the original
products of the guild makers were
forgotten, and toys were manufac-
tured on a full-time basis. The
German toy industry eventually grew
until it gained prominence in the
world market.

In small or medium-sized factories
the industry made for the young all
manner of intriguing treasures, most
frequently of tin. Simple products
such as trumpets or tops; more

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

These toys were displayed at Munich export show (Photo by BYERS)

complex toys like automobiles and
mechanical figures; and finally pro-
jectors, electric trains, and other
precision items, all were first
developed early in the same region.

Due to a great variety of models,
comparative cheapness of products,
and an ability by the manufacturers
to adapt their products to the tastes
and requirements of many different
markets, the Bavarian toy industry
exported 70 percent of its production
to foreign countries before the first
world war. Great Britain and the
United States became its two largest
customers,

After World War I the German
toy industry slipped from its com-
manding position because of in-
creasingly intense foreign compe-
tition. Both Japan and the United
States became strong contenders for
the world's toy business. Thus Ger-
many lost an important customer
and also gained a rival.

6

HIS RISE and decline of the Ger-
man toy industry can be traced
with the aid of the following
statistics. In 1896 the export of toys
amounted to RM 40 million. In 1913
it had built itself up into a thriving
business of RM 100 million. In 1929
it had risen still further to RM 115
million. By 1937, because of internal
conditions and the instability of the
world’s monetary system it had
slipped back to RM 40 million a year.
By the end of World War II the
industry had become completeiy
dormant. The majority of factories in
the Nuremberg vicinity were either
badly damaged or destroyed, Material
was unavailable. Skilled craftsmen
on whom much of the success of
the toy industry depended had been
diverted during combat years into
the. manufacture of war material, so
there was a shortage of trained
workmen.
In May 1946 through the efforts of
Military Government the industry

22 DECEMBER 1947

--- Page 10 ---
received the first material aid it had
known since Hitler began to divert
non-essential industry to building his
war machine.

Twenty-five tons of steel ware allo-
cated to the manufacturers of metal
toys. Production of playthings was
resumed in Nuremberg almost im-
mediately. Among the first items to
be turned out were small boats, me-
chanical automobiles, tops and steam
engines, These toys were all promptly
sold to former customers in the United
States and to the Army Exchange
Service in Germany.

A four-speed automobile with silent
gear shift, manufactured in Nurem-
berg, became last Christmas’ sensation
at local PX s. Many Americans stood
patiently in line to buy these mini-
ature marvels, ostensibly for their
children. The popularity of this one
model substantially helped raise the
toy export figure for 1946 to more
than $100,000.

INCE THEN more than $600,000

worth of Bavarian-made toys have
gone out to many countries, including
Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Bel-
gium, Holland, Luxembourg, the
United States, and parts of South
America. This represents 40 percent
of Bavaria's prewar toy capacity, and
the industry shows an indication of
increasingly rapid growth. Another
$900,000 worth of contracts have
been signed and are waiting to be
filled. By July 1948 the present pro-
gram calls for $2,500,000 worth of toy
exports,

A toy auto of the prominent Schucko make (Photo by BYERS)

Recently 85 tons of fine Swedish
spring steel were made available to
toy manufacturers in Bavaria. This
will eventually be converted into the
movable mechanisms of streamlined
cars, trains, and novelty toys de-
signed to fascinate children.

Before the Bavarian toy manufac-
turers can swing into full production
the industry needs more steel for its
mechanical toys. It needs aluminum
for Christmas-tree decorations, and
goose feathers for artificial Christmas
trees. It needs cardboard, linseed oil,
paint, power, and labor. In fact the
shortage list stilllooks discouragingly
long until it is compared with the list
of two years ago. At that time there
was little hope for recovery. Now
with a dollar backlog being gradually

Toy cabin cruiser, ocean liner, and submarine (Photo by BYERS)

built up through exports, many of
the most critically-needed items may
soon be bought from other countries.

N THE MEANTIME hundreds of

small Bavarian toy plants are
gradually getting their heads above
water. In Middle Franconia alone
180 factories are in operation today,
employing more than 3,000 persons.

To insure the future of the industry
and to protect the justly famous rep-
utation of German toy manufacturers,
a bureau of standards and prices
has been set up, All Bavarian toys
and Christmas-tree decorations must
be registered with the Land Econo-
mic Office. These products must
adhere to a uniform price level and
must meet a certain standard of qua-
lity before they are approved for ex-
port.

First priority on scarce materials
is given to those selected for export.
In addition the toys are entered in
the Nuremberg toy show where visit-
ing customers from foreign countries
may negotiate “on the spot” con-
tracts.

Further development of the export
trade depends on the successful iron-
ing out of certain obstacles to post-
war German industry. Eventually
representatives must again be pro-
vided in foreign countries, or German
toy experts cleared for travel in these
countries, With the cooperation of
OMGB this is gradually being reali-

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
zed. It is hoped that German toy mak-
ers will soon be allowed to exhibit
their wares at foreign fairs.

In the meantime the ingenious in-
ventors in the industry are working
on new ideas behind locked doors in
an atmosphere of deepest secrecy.
However, a few industrial leaders ia-
timate that toy addicts have seen
nothing yet, and that the new patent-
protected toy crop should be nothing
short of sensational.

Hints which have leaked out give
every indication this is true. There
is a car that can be guided any place
by telephone, and a magic train which
enters a tunnel blue and comes out
a vivid red. There is an audio-con-
trolled automobile that cannot start

Material for Toy Production
in Bavaria was provided by
Mr. Fred Bentley, Chief of the
Program and Review Section,
Industry Branch, of the Econo-
mics Division, OMGB.

The story was coordinated by
John A, Biggs, Deputy Public
Information Officer, OMGB. Mr.
Biggs, who has a background of
publicity and advertising writing
in the United States, joined the
staff of OMGB in October, 1947,
after writing for The Stars and
Stripes, and the I & E Bulletin.

until it is told, and a miniature racer
which travels at breakneck speed to
the table's edge, poises there. precipi-
tiously for a split second and then
backs away to safety, There are
trains which start, stop, turn and
avoid collisions, all operationg through
electronic controls,

These are a few of the new toy
companions soon to be within reach
of the postwar child. They are a
far cry from the old fashioned clock-
work engine that ran on tracks when
it was wound. However, the modern
child demands more to stimulate his
imagination. Germany's toy wizards
in Nuremberg have always sought lo
give the customer what he wanted.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Continued from Page 5)
Christmas Customs

— the return of light — became a
symbol of hope in the birth of Christ,
who is regarded as the light of the
world.

When the church fathers decided
in AD 340 upon a date to celebrate
the birth of Christ, they chose the
day of the winter solstice (the point
at which the sun is farthest from the
equator), which was firmly fixed in
the minds of the people and which
was their most important festival. The
time of the solstice and the date of
Christmas vary by a few days be-
cause of changes in man-made cal-
endars. .

For several centuries Christmas was
solely a church anniversary. But with
the spread of Christianity to pagan
lands, many customs of the winter
solstice were added to those of the
Christians,

Many current customs in addition
to those of light and fire had pre-
Christian origins, among them Chris-
tian decorations. The Druids hung
mistletoe in their homes, while the
Saxons used holly, ivy, and bay, sym-
bols of eternal life.

It is believed that the first Christ-
mas tree appeared in Germany in the
8th century, when Boniface, an Eng-
lish missionary to Germany, replaced
the sacrifices to Odin’s sacred oak
with fir tree decorated in tribute to
the Christ child. The Christmas carol
rose in Italy in the 13th century, and
spread to France, and Germany, and
later to England.

Penicillin Needs Filled

Bavaria has enough penicillin for
its medical needs for the first time
since the drug was discovered, accord-
ing to the Public Health Branch, OMG
Bavaria. Of the allocation of
21,000,000,000 units of the drug per
month to the US Zone, Bavaria gets
43.5 percent, or enough penicillin to
treat many thousands of patients a
month.

Distribution of penicillin stock is
controlled by a medical committee
appointed by the Minister of the In-
terior.

Christmas Amnesty
Granted to 2,000

A Christmas amnesty announced by
Gen. Lucius D, Clay, the Military
Governor, affects some 2,000 German
prisoners who had been serving sen-
tences imposed by MG courts in the
US Zone, including Land Bremen and
the US Sector of Berlin,

The amnesty applied to those whose
sentences expire between 15 December
1947, and 31 January 1948. Prisoners
who are not affected by the amnesty

» provisions are those against whom

detainer warrants have been issued
for other crimes, those suffering from
contagious diseases, those sentenced
after 1 December 1947, and those
under sentence by the denazification
courts,

“This amnesty is in keeping with
the American spirit which manifests
itself urgently as the holiday season
approaches,” said General Clay. “It
will permit many hundreds of these
prisoners to find some measure of
cheer joined with their families and
friends. It is my sincere belief that
those who are released now will not
prove to be a menace to their communi-
ties. The selection of those to be freed
has been made with great care.

“T recall that last year the German
press expressed whole-hearted approv-
al of the amnesty plan. It was pointed
out at that time that Hitler made a great
show of turning some prisoners loose
on his birthday. This American plan
is related only to American tradition
and American principles of justice
and is associated with the spirit of the
season and with the spirit of religion.
It lacks the trappings of political
significance.”

General Clay further pointed out
that the commutations will in no way
affect the security of the United States,
and that a more liberal policy of
probation and parole is in order.

The total prison population in the
US Zone and the US Sector of Berlin
is now 29,000, of which 10,000 were
sentenced in American military courts
and 19,000 in German courts,

22 DECEMBER 1947

--- Page 12 ---
Oder-Neisse Line

Der Volkswille (Schweinfurt) said
that the stabilization of the Oder-
Neisse line, as demanded by Russia
and Poland, would only perpetuate
the present condition of complete
instability, and added:

“That a status quo achieved on such
a basis must always remain precarious
is something one can certainly learn
from history — last but not least the
history of the Third Reich. All the
more so when things are done — as
under the Third Reich and since —
that stand in contradiction to axiomatic
human rights.”

East-West Dispute

The Wiesbadener Kurier in a report
on the Berlin press said:

“An editorial writer of Nacht-Express
states that the understanding between
East and West is not being advanced
through anti-Communist propaganda
drives (‘without kid gloves’). He forgets
to add this understanding is also
hardly advanced through the presen-
tation of plays like ‘The Russian
Question’ or ‘Colonel Kusmin’ .. ."

Unanswered Questions

The Offenbach Post reprinted an
editorial from the ‘“Westdeutsche
Rundschau" concerning the Soviet
Zone, The article declared it to be a
“great misfortune” that Germans from
the East stand against Germans from
the West and added that the following
questions have never been answered:

“Why is the SPD not admitted in
the Soviet Zone? Is it true that in
Berlin alone 5,413 people have dis-
appeared without leaving a trace?
Why do high-ranking personalities.
from the Soviet Zone flee and then
declare each time that the despotism
of SED is intolerable? Is it true that
the SED leaders in Magdeburg have
ordered a supervision of the sermons
in the church? Why are CDU papers
in the Soviet Zone being punished
when they publish the refusal of
Jacob Kaiser to recognize the Oder-
Neisse line? Why are the Western

22 DECEMBER 1947

papers not allowed in the Soviet
Zone .. .? The Germans in the West
distinguish very clearly between
official party doctrines and the simple
people in the East. Nobody has re-
nounced the German people in the
East, and nobody will ever renounce
them... But the West must demand
that the foolish hate campaign of
some elements in the East cease.”

Bund Demonstra‘ion

The. Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Re-
gensburg) said that the encouragement
by the Russians of the Kulturbund
demonstration in the Berlin Rundfunk
Building in defiance of British authori-
ties was a token that the Russians
feel that all Berlin belongs to them.
He commented further:

“Berlin, surrounded by the Soviet
Zone, is a sanctuary for all democratic
persecutees from that zone... From
here the spirit of political freedom
radiates through the whole Eastern
Zone. If the Western Allies ever leave
Berlin half the, city would flee in
panic.”

Idea of Unity

Horst Fluegge, political editor’ of
the Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
said that Germany's political maturity
will be tested by her remaining true
to the idea of unity... The article
contained a mild condemnation of
SED policies but continued:

“... The re-creation of German
unity is impossible without the consent
of Moscow, and likewise a German

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentictranslatione of editorials
and reports in the German prees.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
teaders among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not ne-
cessarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions,

Germany started on its way to
by its policy against the Soviet Union.
That later on there existed a pact
between Hitler and the Kremlin is
immaterial. Nor must one forget the
fact that the Moscow government
neither prepared nor ever considered
a breach of the treaty ... The task of
coming to an understanding with the
nations of the West may be more
difficult in spite of the fact that the
German people are Western-oriented
in every respect..."

“People’s Congress”

The Darmstadter Echo said the claim’
of the “German People's Congress”
to send a German representation to’
London is presumptuous, and added:>

“All non-participants of this Con-
gress refuse to entrust their future
fate to men who perhaps are™
vain and gullible enough to permit*
themselves to be pushed into the
foreground by the Communists but
who, aside from their naive ‘belief,:
have no mandate to speak for a people,
of 70 million. If they were granted a’
hearing, what could they say? ... About
the Eastern. boundaries they would-
have to keep silent, because in this‘
respect the spiritual. fathers of the:
“People's Congress’ and their bosses are:
not open to argument ... A People’s
Congress to prepare a German con-!
stitution ought to be elected, but it:
would have to be elected in all four
zones under equal political con-
ditions . . . Courts to exert authority»
over the elections could perhap work
under the chairmanship of experienced
democrats from Switzerland or Sweden.
Freedom of speech, free, secret, and
safe voting in all four zones of Ger-
many, sufficient time for people to
make up their minds through. public
exchange of opinion, and admission
of all candidates — — if these con-
ditions were fulfilled we would get a’
representation qualified to speak in
the name of our people. Only then
would we have something that could,

be called a ‘People’s Congress*, £

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN;

--- Page 13 ---
Econonnc Situation
Occupied

Germany

Part 5 (A) — The French Zone

HE FRENCH Zone is the smallest

of the four zones, covering an
area equal to nine percent of prewar
Germany and 12 percent of occupied
Germany. Its main economic assets
are the coal mines and steel resour-
ces of the Saar Basin.

If the economic integration of the
Saar with France is achieved, the re-
mainder of the zone will still retain
important industrial and manufactur-
ing facilities, in particular chemicals,
optical and precision instruments,
stones and earths, lumber, pulp and pa-
per products, and leather. In 1936
the French Zone as a whole account-
ed for 8,7 percent (measured in terms
of value added by manufacture) of
the industrial output of Germany west
of the Oder-Neisse. Excluding the
Saar, it contributed 7.3 percent.

The contribution of the French Zone
to Germany’s prewar export trade was
relatively higher than its share of in-
dustrial production, amounting to
10 percent of the total for occupied
Germany, 8.3 percent coming from
the portion of the zone outside the
Saar. The most important industrial
export item was chemicals, which
constituted about one-quarter of the
zone'’s total exports, and about
18 percent of Germany's chemical
exports.

A large part of the zone is devoted
primarily to agriculture and forestry,
but its food production is con-
siderably short of its own needs. It
is deficient in fats, sugar, and parti-
cularly breadgrains, However, it nor-
mally produces a large surplus of

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

fruits, vegetables, wines, and tobacco.
Located on Germany's southwestern
borders, it maintains close commer-
cial ties with France and, to a lesser
extent, with Belgium, Luxembourg,
and Switzerland.

It is the only zone which shows a
current decline from prewar popula-
tion.

The physical level of production in
the French Zone during the last half

This is the fifth of a series of
six articles taken from “Econom-
ic Data on Potsdam Germany,”
a special report of the Military
Governor prepared by the Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS. Re-
quests for the 90-page booklet
may be referred to the Reports
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS,
APO 742,

of 1946 is estimated at about 35 per-
cent of the 1936 rate. However, as a
result of the measures taken by the
French occupying authorities in the
Saar Basin, the level of industry in
this area is substantially higher than
in the rest of the zone. In numerous
branches of industry a sharp decline
in production occurred in either the
third or the fourth quarter of 1946,
presumably reflecting the exhaustion
of raw material stocks and current
procurement difficulties.

Although only limited data are
available on the industrial pro-
duction of the French Zone for the

10

first two quarters of 1947, it appears
that the winter recession in this zone
was not so sharp as in the other
zones. By the second quarter, the
ground lost during the winter had
been recovered.

The gross value of industrial pro-
duction in the Frerich Zone (excluding
the Saar and the French Sector of
Berlin) was reported as totaling RM
506,900,000 for the second quarter of
1947. This was about 55 percent of
the 1936 quarterly average, excluding
building construction, On the basis
of an average increase in wholesale
prices of 40 percent, the adjusted
value index would equal 33 percent
of 1936. This ratio is not inconsistent
with the estimate that the level of
physical production in the French
Zone including the Saar was about
35 percent of the 1936 rate for the
last two quarters of 1946.

HE ANALYSIS of the commodity

groups in the value index ind-
icates considerable distortions result-
ing from uneven price rises, shifts in
commodity groupings, and changes in
the pattern of industrial production.
This is particulary true in the chemi-
cals group, which indicates a value
level of 112 percent as against an
estimated average physical level of
about 40 to 50 percent, resulting from
increased output of high-priced items
as against a decline in volume pro-
duction of basic chemicals.

Production trends and levels attained
for the more important industry
groups are as follows:

Mining — Coal production in the
zone totaled 2,300,000 tons for the
last quarter of 1946. This compares
with a production of 1,500,000 tons
during the last quarter of 1945 and
1,800,000 tons for the first quarter of
1946. Production in the last quarter of
1946 was at 79 percent of the 1936
level. The availability of qualified
French personnel with prewar expe-
rience in the Saar and the special
measures taken to improve miners’
living conditions were two factors
contributing to the good results
obtained. .

During 1947, production continued
to rise steadily. Output for October
1947 exceeded 1,000,000 tons, as com-
pared with a monthly average of

22 DECEMBER 1947

--- Page 14 ---
967,000 tons during the prewar year
1936. .

Production of iron ore — the only
important ore mining industry — rose
from 8,000 tons in January 1946 to a
monthly average of about 45,000 tons
at the end of the year, and to about
50,000 tons monthly for February and
March 1947,

Metallurgy — Production of crude
steel in the French Zone rose from
32,000 tons for the first quarter of
1946 to 100,000 tons during the last
quarter. Total 1946 production, how-
ever, equaled only 12 percent of the
1936 output and only 32 percent of
the 936,000 tons annually scheduled
under the Quadripartite Level of In-
dustry agreement.

For the first quarter of 1947, pro-
duction of crude steel totaled 127,000
tons, an increase of 27 percent over
the last quarter of 1946. In the second
quarter, output rose very sharply, to
about 177,000 tons. Approximately
90 percent of the steel output of the
French Zone is derived from the Saar,
while the balance is produced in the
Rhine Province.

Production and processing of non-
ferrous metals remained low due to
shortages of skilled labor, fuel,
power, and raw materials.

Chemicals — The chemical industry
in the French Zone is dominated by
the huge former I.G. Farben complex
at Ludwigshafen-Oppau. Production
during 1946 showed irregular trends,
with synthetic ammonia plants oper-
ating during the last quarter at
16 percent and pharmaceutical plants
at 188 percent of the Quadripartite
Level of Industry.

Basic chemicals at the end of the
year were at 57 percent of the Quadri-
partite 1949 level; miscellaneous chem-
icals, 36 percent; dyestuffs, 83 per-
cent; and synthetic rubber, 20 percent.
Production of nitrogen and phosphate
fertilizers was irregular, with sharp
declines in the third and fourth quar-
ters respectively. Potash production
rose steadily throughout 1946, from
400 tons (potassinate content) during
the first quarter to 3,200 tons in the
last.

For the chemical industry as a
whole, production during the last half
of 1946 was more than 40 percent of
the 1936 average rate. Output in the

22 DECEMBER 1947.

1936 1947 1947
Quarterly | 2nd Quarter | as Pércent
Industry Group ‘Average of 1936
(1936 (Current (Not Adjusted
Prices) Prices) _| for Price Change)

TOTAL (1) 920.8 506.9 55
Motor Fuels, Lubricants, and Tar ..........++ 3.0 05 | ”
Iron and Steel Production .. 26.0 | 5.0 19
Non-Ferrous Metal Production . 29.1 46 16
Foundry Products 178 8.5 48
Iron and Steel Manufactures.......60000cce8 42.2 20.7 49
Machinery, & Iron & Steel Construction Vehicles 76.4 29.7 39
Machinery, & Iron & Steel Construction 76.4 29.7 39
Vehicles 29.1 9.8 34
Electrical Equipment 12.9 70 61
Optical and Precision Instruments. 21.8 14.4 65
Metal Goods, Jewelry, ete 19.4 BA 16
Stones and Earths 46.6 29.0 62
Lumber & Woodworking 553 45.5 82
Chemicals, & Rubber and Asbestos . 93.8 104.8 112
Paper and Pulp . 29.6 22.6 6
Leather 73.2 B14 42
Textiles and Clothing . 158.5 1 | 22
Fats, Fodder and Glue
Distilling of Alcohol. ccseseeeeeeeee 159.3 122.7 7
Food, Drink, and Tobacco
Electricity and Gas..........e00ccececeeeees 346 | 18.6 54
Other Industries .........éccceeessseeeeeees a) 38.6 22.6 58
(1) Excluding construction. |

if

first half of 1947 showed no clear
trend.

Machinery and Optics — Production
in the machinery: and optics group of
industries was lower,. in relation to
the prewar level, than in any of the
other zones, partly because of short-
ages of raw materials, especially iron
and steel.

Following the general pattern, the
electrical and optical and precision
instruments industries did better, as
compared with 1936, than others in
this group.

Production in the heavy engi-
neering, machine tool, and agricul-
tural tractor industries was fairly
steady during 1946, with average
levels of 40, 29, and 67 percent of the
limitations established for 1949 under
the Quadripartite Level of Industry
Plan respectively.

In the light engineering group, pro-
duction was at the high level of
97 percent of retained capacity during
the first half of the year, but declined
sharply to only 40 and 50 percent
during the third and fourth quarters
respectively.

11

Motor truck output also declined
from 33 percent to 24 and 13 percent
during the third and fourth quarters,
respectively.

However, production of optical and
precision instruments rose steadily
from 39 percent of the established
level at the beginning of the year to
60 percent at the end, while output
of electrical equipment rose from 44
to 60 percent.

In the first half of 1947 there was
a general improvement in the level of
machinery output.

Building Materials — The production
of building materials remained low
because of raw material and man-
power shortages. No Quadripartite
limitation has been set for building
materials with the exception of ce-
ment, for which a capacity of 875,000
tons has been allocated to the French
Zone. Production during 1946 totaled
109,500 tons for the first half of the
year and 145,000 tons for the second
half, equal to 25 and 33 percent,
respectively, of retained capacity.

As in the other zones, building
materials output declined sharply
during the winter, and recovered

‘WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
during the spring to about the late
1946 levels,

Consumer Goods — Production of
consumer goods remained low
throughout the year. Textile pro-
duction in the last half of 1946 was
a little over 20 percent of the 1936
tate, The production of footwear in
the last six months of 1946 is esti-
mated to have been only about one-
tenth of prewar. Paper and cardboard
production was also low. The first
half of 1947 showed some improve-
ment in textiles, but there was little
if any progress in the leather and
paper industries,

Interzonal Trade — French Zone
shipments to other zones in the
calendar year 1946 totaled RM
438,000,000, excluding coal, steel,
electricity, and fertilizers. Of this
amount, 29 percent went to the British
Zone, 67 percent to the US Zone and
the remainder, four percent, to the
Soviet Zone. Total receipts amounted
to RM 402,000,000, of which 37 per-
cent came from the British Zone,
61 percent from the US Zone, and
two percent from the Soviet Zone.
Shipments and receipts in the first
quarter of 1947 were at about the
same over-all rate;

Foreign Trade — Planned ‘French
Zone exports to France for the,second
half. of. 1946 totaled $37,900,000,
Tepresenting six percent of France’s
total import program for that ‘period.
The -largest contributions of the zone
to France's imports were in lumber
and lumber products (77 percent-.of
French imports of these. items), con-
struction materials (41 percent), and
metallurgical products (37 percent).

The foreign trade program for the
first half of 1947 totaled $181.2 mil-
lion, of which $91.6 million repre-
sented exports and $89.6 million im-
ports. Details of the program (in mil-
lion dollars) are as follows:

Commodities Imports Exports
TOTAL 89.6 91.6
Ores and Metals 1.9 1.7
Liquid Fuels 3.3 0.0
Metallurgica! Products 2.6 75
Engineering Products 0.3 10.9
Building Materials 0.0 4.0
Lumber, Paper, etc. 0.7 25.6
Chemical Products 34 47
Leather 0.6 5.2
Textiles 2.8 12.7
Agricultural Products 63.2 11.0
Tobacco 0.0 1.2
Electricity and Gas 11 25
Public Works, Transport 9.2 AS
Miscellaneous 0.5 01

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

Of total exports from the French
Zone up to 31 December 1946, 90
percent went to France, seven per-
cent to Switzerland, and the balance
to Luxembourg, Austria, and other
countries. Of total imports for the
same period, 60 percent came from
the United States, 21 percent from
France, and the balance from Austria,
Belgium, Switzerland, Czechoslovakia,
Luxembourg, and other countries.

Actual figures on the foreign trade
of the French Zone are available only
for the period 1 April to 31 Decem-
ber 1946. During this period, total
exports amounted to $50,200,000 as
against total imports of $32,000,000.
The French Zone was the only zone
reporting a favorable balance of trade
during the period, as the Soviet Zone
does not report removals from
current production. During the first
quarter of 1947, total imports were
$55,000,000, of which $36,000,000
were food, seed, and feed, Exports
were somewhat lower, at $47,000,000
with the largest items being coal and
coke ($9,000,000) textiles ($8,000,000)
and lumber ($7,000,000).

Although the bulk of the imports
are for food as in the British and
US Zone, the decline in the prewar
population, -the absence of: large
cities, and the large percentage of
small farm holdings’ are. favorable
factors in the food situation. The
bulk of the exports has been’ coal,
lumber and lumber products, chemical

products, wines, and tobacco, all of
which are normal export items for
the zone.

(®) Neighboring Countries

OMPARING POSTWAR recovery

of other European countries with

Germany, it is evident that the rest

of Europe has progressed toward

economic restorativn far more rap-
idly than Germany.

The estimate of the level of phy-
sical production presented earlier in
this report indicates that German
output during the last half of 1946
averaged about 40 percent of that in
1936, or roughly 34 percent of 1938
production. During May—June 1947,
following the recovery from the
winter recession, the level was prob-
ably several points higher.

All other European countries for
which data are available show a far
greater degree of recovery. In France,
production in the last quarter of 1946
and in January 1947 was about 90.
percent of the 1938 rate. In Belgium,
production has about equaled, and in
Norway, surpassed, that of 1939. In-
Poland, production during the period
October 1946 to January 1947 was
about 105 percent of the 1937 rate.
In none of the European countries for
which data are available is the cur-
rent production level much below
90 percent. of prewar.

In terms of basic industrial pro-.
duction the contrast is equally strik-,

(Continued on Page 14)

Country Prewar a) 1946 b) '
2,870 2,040
2,710 1,850
3,270 2,850
3,100 2,900
2,950 1,800
France (Paris) . 3,020 2,000
Greece (Athens) 2,530 1,550
Luxembourg .... 2,900 2,240
Netherlands ... 2,890 2,200
Norway 3,130 2,225
Sweden . 3,110 2,800
Switzerland ... 3,050 2,471
United Kingdom... 3,000 a) 2,850
Germany, U.S. Zone | (1,610)
Germany, British Zone. 2,950 c) (1,340)
Germany, French Zone | (1,340)
Germany, Soviet Zone ... | (1,430)
a) National average for the’total population.
b) Weighted average of consumer categories in non-farm population for latest"period available.
©) Estimated rationed foods distributed to non-self supplier population, excluding Berlin, without
allowance for unrationed food.

12

22 DECEMBER 1947

--- Page 16 ---
RELIGIOUS

OOPERATION between the two

principal religious groups of Ger-
many is one of the most outstanding
features in the religious life of the
people of the US Zone.

Evangelicals and Roman Catholics
constitute almost 96 percent of the
total German population. Most of the
examples of intercreedal cooperation
occur between these two groups. In
terms of activity, cooperation between
Protestants and Catholics in Germany
exists on three levels which may be
termed as practical, political, and
theological,

Welfare projects constitute the most
common form of practical good will.
The two principal welfare agencies,
“Caritas Verband” of the Catholic
Church and “Hilfswerk” of the Evan-
gelical Church, work closely together.
Under a program of “need comes be-
fore creed,” buildings, relief materials,
and personnel are often shared and
interchanged freely.

In such projects as the one which
offers assistance to the aged and to
mothers with children at railroad
stations in the larger cities, represen-
tatives of the two faiths work side by
side in the relief of human suffering.

Another important form of coopera-
tion is the sharing of church buildings
with congregations which have lost
their places of worship because of
war damage. MG officials in Bavaria
report that in at least 20 Kreise
church buildings are being shared.
Since Bavaria is predominantly Catho-
lic, most of these examples are Catho-
lics sharing their buildings with Prot-
estants.

In several instances, particular
buildings are turned over to the Prot-
estants for their exclusive use, but in
most situations both groups make use
of the same buildings. In one Kreis
there are seven communities in which
Catholic Church buildings are being

22. DECEMBER 1947

By Dr. Sterling W. Brown

shared with Protestants. Protestant
Churches in the Protestant area of
Bavaria, and in many other parts of
the US Zone, are also readily shared
with the Catholics.

N SCORES of Hessian towns, be-
cause of the impact of a refugee

population which is 75 percent Catho-,

lic in an area that was 65 percent Prot-

Dr. Sterling W. Brown is head
of Interfaith Relations and Free
Church Affairs of the Education
and Religious Affairs Branch,
Internal Affairs and Communica-
tions Division, OMGUS, He came
to Germany in April 1947 on
leave from his position as as-
sistant to the president of the
National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews, New York city.
Previously he was professor of
psychology and sociology of
religion at Drake University and
at the University of Oklahoma.
He is a native of Texas.

estant, it is not uncommon to see
Protestant Churches used for Catholic
services.

Since the beginning of the occu-
pation the Catholic bishop of Mainz
and the Protestant Church govern-
ment of Hesse have been holding
regularly-scheduled meetings in an at-
mosphere of informality for discussion
of mutual responsibility in areas of
common concern.

In the field of youth activities is
to be found a third form of coopera-
tion between Catholics and Prot-
estants on the practical level. Youth
work has a prominent place in both
German and. American efforts to re-
orient the German people, and church

13

youth groups play a leading ‘role in
this field. Protestants and Catholics
serve amiably on scores of Kreis youth
committees, while in many instances
the youth of both churches share in
camping, social parties, discussion
groups, and in the celebration of
“Youth Week.”

In one Kreis a “Youth Week” was
held recently in which Catholic priests
and sisters participated in the Prot-
estant program and Protestant minis-
ters and deaconesses shared in the
Catholic observance.

The regularly-scheduled confer-
ences by Military Government, involv-
ing church leaders of all groups, has
furthered intergroup democracy among
the German churches.

IONCERNING THE political level

of cooperation, some Evangelical
leaders have voiced fears that the Chris-
tian Democratic Union might become
Catholic-dominated, as was the former
Catholic Center Party. Nevertheless,
this political organization continues
to act as a binding force for the two
faiths. While Free Churches decry
the participation of any religious
body in political activity, the CDU-
CSU is at the present time numerically
the strongest political party in the
American Zone.

In the minds of Protestant and
Evangelical churchmen, even though
there are different shades of economic,
political and theological opinion, the
CDU is for many the symbol of the
Christian basis of life as opposed to
the materialistic dogma of other
parties.

The most significant form of co-
operation on the theological level
is that of the “Una Sancta” mov-
ement between Roman Catholics
and Evangelicals. Striving for better
understanding between the two
churches, the movement aims at

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN’

--- Page 17 ---
eventual union. From its inception in
1916 it had slow growth until the
Nazi attack on the churches stepped
up its development. Backed by the
highest church officials, the movement
has now become firmly entrenched
throughout Germany.

The result is the gradual emergence
of a ne’ atmosphere. of understand-

ing and good will through’. the factors -

of formal meetings and discussion
groups, intercreedal student activities
in universities, cooperative news serv-
ices, inclusion of information of
other faiths in religious periodicals,
public. statements. of . mutual, co-
operation on the part. of the highest
church officials, and the introduction
of courses of instruction taught by
men of other faiths, in both. Protestant
and Catholic seminaries,

The most frequent operation of the
“Una Sancta” is in the form of groups
of Catholic and Evangelical bishops,
theologians, students, and laymen who
meet periodically for intimate and
friendly discussion of theological
doctrines. Differences are frankly ad-
mitted and explored while agreements
are pointed up and emphasized. In
recent months some of the conferences
have had large audiences and addres-
ses given have been. published and
widely distributed.

However, in contrast to the status
of the two largest religious groups,
the Free Churches are frequently
denied the opportunity for cooperation
with the other two bodies. Unwilling
to accept state subsidies or make use
of state tax machinery for the collec-
tion of church taxes, Free Churches
often find themselves at a disadvant-
age in dealing: with public officials.
Their applications for anything from
gasoline for ecclesiastical travel to
rooms for religious service usually
receive the suspicious reception which
has been traditionally accorded minor-
ity groups in Germany.

Jewish-Christian relations, which
were torn asunder during the Nazi
regime have improved slightly. Practi-
cally the only bridges between Chris-
tians and Jews are the continuing
personal friendships of Christian
clergymen who stood up to the Nazis
against their persecution of the Jews.

Whatever may be the outcome of
the various good will activities as

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

regards the religious life of Germany,
they do constitute a resource for the
furtherance of the democratic reorien-
tation of Germany. With the roots of
western culture embedded in the
Judeo-Christian tradition, the growth
of democratic human relations among
the religious groups of Germany is
basic. to the attainment of the demo-
cratic way of life.

(Continued from Page 12) a
Economic Situation

ing, German production of hard coal
during March 1947 ‘was abqut 56 per-
cent of output during 1938. In con-
trast, Belgian coal output during the
same month was. just under 90 per-
cent of 1938, while Czechoslovakia,
France and Poland all showed coal
production significantly higher than
it had been before the war. In 1938,
German hard Coal production, exclud-
ing that of the separated areas, was
more than three times ds great as that
of France and.more than four times
that of Poland; in March 1947, German
output was less then twice that of
either of these countries,

Before the war, Germany was by
far the greatest producer of steel in
Europe, excluding the USSR. In March
1947, production in the United King-
dom was almost three times that of
Germany, while French output was
more than 50 percent greater. Polish
production, which was little more
than one-tenth of German output in
1939, was about 40 percent of the
German figure in March 1947,

HE POTSDAM AGREEMENT $pro-

vided specifically that the German
average standard of living should not
exceed that of other European
countries, excluding the UK and the
USSR. As. far as can be judged’ from
available data, this principle has been
generally. observed in food and other
fields. Unfortunately, the figures
shown for the four zones of Germany
include rationed food only, whereas
those shown for the other countries
represent estimates of total food
available to the non-farm population.
Even allowing for this difference,
possibly 200 to 250 calories per day,
it seems probable that average food
consumption in Germany is under

14

that of any of the other countries
shown with the possible exception
of Greece, where, however, the fig-
ures shown relate only to the region
of Athens,

In the case of Poland during 1946,
the average per capita consumption
for the entire population of a limited
list of the more important food pro-
ducts —wheat, rye, potatoes, sugar,
beef, pork, poultry, fish, animal fat,
milk, and.eggs— is estimated at 1,636
calories per day (Polish National Eco-
miomic Plan), The average for the
1on-farm population is; undoubtedly
ower; on the other hand, the: avail-
ability. of other, types of food would
‘aise the figure. It is:impossible under
-he circumstances to determine
whether Poland was better or worse
off than Germany on an ool basis
during 1946.

Available statistics ‘also indicate
that food availability has fallen more
sharply in Germany than ‘in any of
the other countries. Direct comparison
in terms of percentage is not possible
because the prewar figures relate in
all cases to the total population,
whereas the current figures apply
generally to the non-farm population
only.

The German economy. has fared
relatively well only with respect to
the increase in living costs as com-
pared with prewar. Prices of rationed
items in Germany have been, and
still are, effectively controlled, with
the result that the increase for such
prices has been held toa minimum.
While black-market operations are
considerable and currency in circu-
lation substantially exceeds. the
amount consistent. with the present
economy, the German price struc-
ture. has, on the whole, shown
remarkable stability.

Notice on Pay Vouchers

Notice was issued by the OMG of
Berlin Sector to all former prisoners
of war residing outside Berlin that
they are not to come to Berlin to
cash Allied pay vouchers. The pro-
cedure currently in effect in Berlin
providing for cashing such vouchers.
applies only to former PW's who are
residents of Berlin.

22 DECEMBER 1947’

--- Page 18 ---
| Books Arrive for Germans

Dr. James R, Newman director of OMG for Hesse, (center); Lt. Margaret

Jordan of the OMGH Youth Activities Branch, and Kenneth Wentzel,

CRALOG representative with OMGH, scan books sent to Germany by
people of North Carolina (PIO, OMGH)

4 THOUSAND books, part of
an estimated 70,000-volume ship-
ment sent by the people of North
Carolina to the youth of US-occupied
area of Germany, have arrived in
Hesse and have been given to the
Hessian Ministry of Education for
distribution to schools, libraries, GYA
centers, and MG information centers.

The book campaign got its start
when John A. Park, publisher of “The
Raleigh Times,” visited Germany and
was impressed with the great need
for cultural materials. Upon his re-
turn to North Carolina, Mr. Park in-
terested Gov. R. Gregg Cherry and
Clyde A. Erwin, State Superintendent
of Public Instruction, in the project.
The program, the first of its kind in
the United States and in Germany,
gained impetus when Governor Cherry
appointed statewide committees for
the collection of books and appealed
to the 1,000,000 public school students
of North Carolina for contributions.

The purpose of the campaign, which
is backed by the American Book
Center for War Devastated Libraries,
Governor Cherry wrote, is to en-
courage the people of North Carolina
to share their good reading with the
3,000,000 young folks of Germany “in

22 DECEMBER 1947

furtherance of future world friend-
ships.”

Books and magazines were collected
by school children in 17 city schools
and 43 rural schools of Wake County,
N.C., and by the Raleigh Woman's
Club, as well as by selected com-
mittees. All were carefully screened
by trained librarians in order to in-
sure the best and most acceptable
books being sent to Germany. Com-
plimentary transportation for the first
shipments was made by Eastern and
American Overseas Airlines, and all
subsequent shipments will be made
by parcel post in packages ranging
from 40 to 70 pounds.

PON ARRIVAL here, the books

were delivered to Mr. Kenneth
Wentzel, CRALOG representative with
OMG Hesse, who immediately turned
them over to the OMGH education
division for breakdown and distribu-
tion by the Hessian Ministry of Edu-
cation and Culture,

Dr. James R. Newman, director of
OMG Hesse, commented during a visit
to the ministry to examine the books
that the North Carolina effort was a
tremendous contribution to the Ameri-
can mission in occupied Germany.

“The actual physical needs here,”
Dr. Newman declared, “are all too

15

obvious, but the cultural requirements
of the Germans, especially the youth,
are too aften hidden within the frame-
work of purely economic shortages.

“Remember that under the Nazi
regime the Germans were culturally
stifled, reading only that which the
propaganda ministry decreed. The
efforts of Mr. Park and Governor
Cherry will be rewarded by an en-
lightened group of people made
cognizant of the culture of: the
United States.”

{Continued from Page 5)

German Border Problem

for insuring that the key industrial
resources situated in these territories
be made available to the economy in
Europe, including Poland andGermany.

We will have before us also con-
sideration of a proposal by nations
neighboring Germany for minor recti-
fications.

To reach in a fair and equitable
manner a decision regarding all
boundary claims affecting Germany
the United States recommends the
constitution of one or more boundary
commissions. Such commissions should
be composed of representatives of the
Four Powers and interested states
and would work under the direction
of the deputies. They should have
authority to investigate the merits of
boundary proposals and to submit
recommendations thereon to the
Council of Foreign Ministers.

Former PW’s Working

The flow of discharged prisoners
of war returning to their homes
throughout the US-occupied area is
continuing. That they are being re-
absorbed into the employment market
and are resuming the supvort of their
dependents is indicated by reports
from public welfare offices.

Prisoners released from Great Britain
are returning in robust health, are
well-clothed, and are showing every
indication of excellent care, The con-
dition of those being released in
France has greatly improved since
the French government began offer-
ing them civilian work contracts. The
condition of prisoners released by the
Soviet authorities was found to be far
below the general level.

WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Regulations Governing Individual
Travel to Switzerland by US Military
Personnel in Uniform, AG 200.4 GPA-
AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 1 December 1947.
Cites current information.

Personnel Survey of the Army
(Quarter Ending 30 September 1947),
AG 320.2 TIE-AGU, Hq EUCOM,
1 December 1947.

US Army Logistical Support of IRO
Operations and IRO Personnel in the
US Occupied Zone of Germany, AG
322 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 1 De-
cember 1947, Outlines. procedures for
requisitioning, issuing, selling and doc-
umenting US Army supplies, services
and facilities. It applies to all US
Army installations located in the US
Occupied Zone of Germany including
Land Bremen and Berlin Sector.

Confinement and Repatriation of
United Nations Displaced Persons
Convicted by Military Government
Courts in the US Area of Control in
Germany, AG 014.33 GCA-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 1 December 1947. Cites the
transfer of responsibility for the ad-
ministration and supervision of existing
displaced persons detention centers
not later than 31 December 1947 from
EUCOM to OMGUS. 5

Class X Clothing for Indigenous
Fire Fighting Personnel, AG 420 GSP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 December 1947.
Lists one substitution. *

Priority of Trials Involving Highly
Incriminated and Influential Nazis,
Militarists and Profiteers, AG 014.3
(IA), OMGUS, 2 December 1947.

Fear of Forcible Repatriation
Among United Nations Displaced Per-
sons, AG 333.5 (PW), OMGUS, 2 De-
cember 1947,

Transfer of Works of Art or Cul-
tural Materials of Value or Import-
ance, AG 007 (ED), OMGUS, 3 De-
cember 1947. Gives substitutions in
OMGUS letter of 6 December 1946.

1948 Reforestation Program Report,
AG 319.1 (ED), OMGUS, 4 December
1947, Requests report by 20 December
to Reports and Statistic Branch, Eco-
nomic Division, OMGUS.

Rationing Report Form “A”, AG 319.1
(ED), OMGUS, 4 December 1947.
Cites preparation in submitting report.

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Requests INT 26-2 “Draft Law for
Expediting the Implementation of
Land Reform;” L 24-1 “Draft Law Con-
cerning Regulation of Claims of Ex-
pellees to Social Insurance Benefits;”
L 25-5 “Clarification with Regard to
Groups of Persons Entitled to Occupy
Housing Space Requisitioned by US
Army for UNRRA;” D 45-1 “Comment
on Problem Concerning the Future of
the“Deutsche Landesbankenzentrale,”
“Deutsche Girozentrale,” “Deutsche
Zentralgenossenschaftskasse,” and
“Rentenbank-Kreditanstalt;”? INT 24-1
“Proposals on Implementation of Con-
trol Council Law No. 57; L 24-5
“Comment on Question of Zonal Uni-
formity for Draft Laws Formerly Ap-
proved by OMGUS;” L 23-2a “Drait
Law on Certified Public Accountants,
Auditors and Tax Advisers;” L 25-1
“Comment on Draft Control Council
Law Concerning Compulsory Social
Insurance;” INT X 25 “Extension of
Validity of Statute for Commissioner
for Price Formation and Price Con-
trol;” L 25-2 “Draft Supplementary
Law to the Ordinance Concerning
Measures in the Field of Legislation
on Partnerships and Corporations and
on Wholesale Buyers’ and Traders‘
Cooperatives (Revision of Member-
ship List of Cooperatives);” INT 26-1
“Modification to Draft Restitution
Law;” D 46-1 “Plan for the Discharge
of German Prisoners of War;” L 26-6
“Alteration Proposals Concerning
General Order No. 4 on Sale of Eight
Stuttgart Coal Firms;” L 26-3 Report
on “Ways to Alleviate the Manpower
Shortage in the German Economy;”
LX 26-2 “Establishment of a Commit-
tee on Emigration Questions;” D 39-1
“Revision of the Regulations on
Blocking Control; D 44-1 “Comment
on Amendment of MGR 13-120 g&j
and 13-121 g,” and L-25-3 "Draft Law
Concerning Recognition of Free Mar-

Copies of Official Instructions
listed in the Weekly Information
Bulletin may be obtained by
writing directly to the originating
headquarters,

riages of Racial and Political Persecu-
tees,” AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS, 8 De-
cember 1947,

Circular No, 185, Administration of
Indigenous Personnel of US Revenue
Producing Agencies and US Commer-
cial Firms, OMGUS, 11 December 1947.
Effective 25 December 1947, Section I,
EUCOM Circular 173, 17 November
1947, will be rescinded and EUCOM
Circular 150, 24 September 1947 will
rescind paragraphs 14 and 15 and give
substitutions therefor.

Prohibition of Issuance of Passports
by German Officials or Agencies, AG
014.331,,@'A), OMGUS, 12 December
1947, St@fes that no German. official
or Ge: agency will issue passports.
A tentorary travel document in
lieu of a passport will be issued only
by the Combined Travel Board or its
designated representatives.

30,000 at Wiesbaden
See Expellee Show

Thirty thousand persons visited the
Hessian Expellee Exposition during
its tWo-month stay in Wiesbaden. The
show, which features the contribution
which Hesse’s half-million expellees
are making to the state’s industrial
and cultural life, moved to Limburg
and gpened there on 15 December.
It is planned that six more principal
Hessian cities be included on the
tour, ‘which is scheduled to continue
until the autumn of 1949.

The exposition, which is housed
in two huge tents covering some
20,000 square feet, features the finest
products of Hesse’s 260 recognized
expellee-operated firms. Only those
items which can actually be turned
out under present conditions, show
officials have pointed out, are put
on display.

Included among the exhibits is a
special art section devoted to the
paintings of 13 expellee artists, while
another portion of the show depicts
the cultural and historical back-
ground of the various exhibiting
groups.

The majority of the displays have
been supplied by manufacturers rep-
resenting Hesse’s 400,000 Sudeten
Germans, known for the quality of
their glass and wooden wares, tex-
tiles, pottery, and musical instruments.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF