--- Page 2 ---
silos

ea F SES
i

MAGAZINE of US MiLiTARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

NO. 128 FEBRUARY 10, 1948
THIS

issue. BLACK MARKET

--- Page 3 ---
US. MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NEW GERMAN STAMP—The five
mark stamp was one of five per-
manent designs which went on sale
Feb.1 in the American, British and
Soviet Zones, and in Berlin. The

signatures beneath the stamp shown

are those of the Quadripartite Stamp f | |

Working Party. Signers are Mr.G.C. INFORMA ION
Scheppler, US; Maj. N. Machin, USSR;

Mr. G. F. Leurquin, France, and Mr. W.

Perkins, Great Britain. (OMGUS PIO) B U L L E iT I N

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Governmentin Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities TAB LE OF CONTENTS
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per- Issue No. 128 February 10, 1948
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest
organizations in the United States, The

Information Bulletin is distributed Review of Occupational Activities 2
without charge as a public service. Black Market and Barter Deals 3
The editorial staff of the Information Hollywood in Bavaria 6
Bulletin is a section of the Reports
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS. Mem- Gorin suport Ecsta &
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid, Editorial Opinion in German Press . . . . ... fl
editor; Henry S. Matteo, assistant American-German Discussion Groups. . . . . . 14
editor; Val Green Bowman, writer; :
Political’ Youthin<Berlinsvien. 7 val ane: be Ce

Mary Catherine Sullivan, reporter. Its
office is located in the Reports Branch New Permanent Stamps onSale........ 18
Building, 20 Saargemuender Strasse,

; Abbreviations Used in Occupation. . . . .. . 19
Berlin-Dahlem. Its mailing address is: ; :
Information Bulletin, Control Office US Representatives in ACA. ©... 1... 23
OMGUS, Berlin, Germany; APO 742, Ofticiak Instructions. 330 )5 Sapte ce eee

US Army. Telephone numbers are
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227.

Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
Mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source cited OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.}

with the article. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
ACL NILA Ee

Bavaria

The Bamberg city orphanage has
been adopted by the Council of
Churches of Heyworth, Ill, following
publication in the Heyworth news-
paper of a letter from an MG official.
The first contribution, consisting of
nine boxes containing clothing, food,
soap, toothpaste and vitamin pills, was
distributed to the 25 children of the
orphanage.

Hesse

A surplus of more than $2,800 from
the donations of OMGH personnel for
Christmas relief has been converted
into a continuing welfare fund to care
for the neediest cases of Hesse. A
special committee has been appointed
to supervise the relief activities.

The inauguration of the habeas
corpus writ in the MG courts of the
US Zone brought no petitions during

its first 10 days of operation in Hesse.
The absence of such petitions was ex-
plained as due to the fact that all
persons held by Hesse Military
Government had been carefully grant-
ed rights now official guaranteed by
the new MG ordinance.

More than 12,000,000 bricks were
salvaged from the rubble of Kassel
during 1947. Only 1,400,000 new bricks
were produced in the city's brickyards.

Wuerttemberg-Baden

The lack of evidence to substantiate
charges of Nazi affiliations caused the
dropping of proceedings against Hein-
rich Stoos, agriculture minister of
Wuerttemberg- Baden, according to
Alfons Bulling, public prosecutor at
the Ulm denazification tribunal. Stoos
had been accused of aiding Nazi
propaganda as district head of the
farmers’ organization at Blaubeuren.

OMG DIRECTORS — Five of the top regional MG officials posed informally
at a meeting recently in Wiesbaden. In the picture are: (leit to right) Charles
M. LaFollette, OMG director of Wuerttemberg-Baden; Murray Van Wagoner,
OMG Land director of Bavaria; Dr. Charles D. Winning, director of the
Regional Government Coordinating Office; Dr. James R. Newmann, OMG

director of Hesse; and Thomas Dunn, OMG director of Bremen.
(Photo by PIO OMGH)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

2

Berlin Sector

A monthly forum designed to im-
prove the educational broadcasts of
RIAS, the radio station in the US
Sector, for juvenile listeners, wag
recently inaugurated. The first of the
RIAS Educational Radio Parliament
series concerned criticism of the
service.

Two German refugee centers in the
US Sector will be closed by March 1
as a result of decreasing refugee bil-
leting requirements. Eleven of Ber-
lin's 18 refugee centers are now situat-
ed in the US Sector.

Bizonal
Almost 10,000,000 German children
up to 15 years of age have been
promised new clothing during the next
two years under a Bizonal Economics
Department program,

US Zone

Almost 2,000,000 copies of a 34-page
world atlas for the use of German
school children will be ready soon for
distribution in the US Zone. The atlas
will fill the need caused by the dis-
creciting of the Nazis’ peculiar geo-
political ideas.

British Zone

A program to provide extra food
for German children attending a local
nursery school has been inaugurated
by wives of Contro] Commission per=
sonnel in Herford, North Rhine/West
phalia. The children are too young to
be included in the child-feeding pr0-
gram in the schools,

William Asburg has been named
regional commissioner for Schleswig-
Holstein.

Painting, sculpture, embroidery, tap-
estry, metal, leather and fabric work
characteristic of Poland, Estonia, Lat
via, Lithuania, Hungary, and the
Ukraine, were displayed at a zonal
exhibition of DP handicrafts.

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

--- Page 6 ---
IHE BLACK MARKET, involving
primarily illegitimate transactions
for profit in finished products between
traders and consumers; and barter
deals, resorted to principally by pro-
ducers, distributors and consumers in
the exchange of tangible assets, have
entrenched themselves in the German
postwar economy. Both problems are
breaches of the controlled economy,
but they are considerably different.
Black-market business includes sales
for money at illegal prices usually
combined with illegal sales of goods
outside of proper ration channels. The
unique feature of the German black
market is that such prices vary from
10 times to as much as 200 times legal
prices, clustering within the range of
50 to 100 times.

This situation developed both from
the extreme surplus of money result-
ing from Nazi war financing, and from
the discount which Germans place on
the future value of the Reichsmark.

Barter deals appear chiefly in the
form of “tied” purchases and sales,
called in Germany “compensation
trade,” in which money plays the sub-
Sidiary role of an accounting standard.
In this trade, the accounting of com-
Pensation trade is “peacetime value
for peacetime value.” Even if the re-
lative scarcity of two bartered goods
differs greatly from prewar times, the
departure from relative peacetime
Values is considerably less than in the
Case of black-market prices.

Black - market operations consist
Primarily of transactions in finished
Products, such as foodstuffs, gasoline,
Wearing apparel, soap, and cigarettes.

€y usually involve traders and final

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

consumers; to a much lesser extent
they involve original producers. The
products come partly out of German
productions, as for example, bread,

Material used in The Black
Market and Barter Deals was
assembled from the Trade and
Commerce Annex of the Mili-
tary Governor's Monthly Reports
No. 27 and 29, and from the
published report on Economic
Policies, Programs & Require-
ments in Occupied Germany,
issued last September.

potatoes, fats, soap, and textiles;
partly out of Allied sources, as for
example, tobacco, chocolate, gasoline,
and certain foods.

These products are diverted to the
black market at different levels and
are dealt in by aclass of black-market
operators that recruits itself from the
ranks of displaced persons, unemploy-
ed youths, and some of the more enter-
prising elements of Germany's un-
stable and dislocated population. The
contacts between this class and the
rest of the population are manifold.
People who know where to buy or
sell this or that “black” item can be

Two German policemen examine a woman's handbag during a drive

on black marketing near Brandenburger Gate, Berlin.

(Signal Corps)

--- Page 7 ---
found in almost every house, especi-
ally in the larger cities.

The proportion of new industrial
production that is sold at outright
black-market prices is not likely
to be greater than 10 percent. On the
other hand probably 90 percent of the
turnover of existing luxury goods—
cameras, Meissen china, rugs, etc.—
is done at black-market prices.

HE PERCENTAGE of imported
basic industrial materials, or
imported grain stuffs, orimported Army
supplies which gets into black-market
channels is slight, probably less than
five percent of the total value of such
receipts. Deliveries of foreign materials
into Germany under these headings,
however, are large and continuous,
and represent almost the only func-
tioning movement in new supplies in
Germany. Accordingly, this five per-
cent acquires undue publicity among
a goods-starving population.
The percentage of imported goods
coming into the hands of Allied per-
sonnel as their own private property

The Legal Division, OMGUS,
in a memorandum on Jan. 8 to
the Inspector General, pointed out
“the difficulty, if not the im-
possibility, of framing a wholly
satisfactory definition’ of the
term “black market."

Quoting an earlier opinion, it
remarked that “there is no legal
definition of the term in the
sense that there is any specific
offense which constitutes the
crime of black marketing.” It
also pointed out that in general
the expression connotes a viol-
ation of some specific law deal-
ing with the purchase, sale, and
exchange of commodities, cur-
rencies, facilities, or services,
and that it can only have legal
meaning if it indicates a viol-
ation of law.

To name only one example,
MG Ordinance No. 17, “Pro-
hibited Transactions and Acti-
vities,“ is aimed primarily at
transactions which may gen-
erally be described as “black
market," although it does not
employ the term.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

which is not consumed but which is
illegally exchanged for German goods
is probably somewhat higher, per-
haps one-fifth. Before energetic steps
were taken to cut off importation of
cigarettes, this proportion was un-
doubtedly higher.

Black-market activities are combatt-
ed in the Bizonal Area by the Mili-
tary Governments and by German
economic, legal, and police authorities
within the limits of the forces and
powers available to them. Many eco-
nomic offices are engaged in super-
vision of allocation and distribution of
goods. The German police attack the
black market by raids, road and border
control, and inspection. Violators are
being fined and contraband goods
confiscated.

Under the German price administra-
tion the enforcement of price regula-
tions, the checking of price charges,
and the investigations of price viola-
tions are carried out in 28 price super-
vision offices, 11 in the US Zone and
17 in the British Zone. Employees of
these offices total 900 persons, of
whom two-thirds are price inspectors
and price investigators.

N ADDITION, almost 500 local price
offices in the Bizonal Area, attach-
ed to rural and urban Kreis adminis-
trations, give part-time attention to
price supervision work in conjunction
with enforcement of rationing and
business licensing. These offices em-
ploy an average of five or six persons
each,

Fines for violations of German price
control regulations are currently runn-
ing in excess of RM 2,500,000 a month
in the Bizonal Area. In addition, more
than RM 2,000,000 are collected as
confiscation of illegal excess proceeds
above authorized prices.

No more than 10 to 15 percent of
the food available for collection is
being diverted by farmers or distri-
butors into black and gray markets—
the latter on the border between legal
and illegal markets—according to MG
estimates of planting and production
statistics in the Bizonal Area. The
figure is considered surprisingly low
in view of the unsatisfactory feeding
levels which have been maintained
since the beginning of the occupation,
and in view of the general stagnation
of economic conditions.

4

Typical black-market prices in
the US Zone are within the
ranges indicated in the following
table. Variations between the
black-market prices in any of the
four zones are not significant, but
in Berlin prices are considerably
higher than in the remainder of
Germany.

Price quotations extend over a
considerable range, but there has
been certain stability for the past
two and a half years in their
general level.

3 e
gz | 22
So ag Sq
Items unit | 3> | ioe

23 33

By ee

ee ag
Butter 1 1b 2 75-250
Eggs each 13 | 1-100
Sugar 11b 47 | 50-125
Flour 1lb 22 | 10-30
Meat 11b .75-1.25 | 25-100
Tires each |30-60 500-2,000
Gasoline 5 ltrs 2 40-125
US Cigarettes| each .17 | 4.50-6.00
Men's shoes ipr 15 600-1,000
Leica camera | each 500 20,000-30,000
Soap, hand 1cake| .10-,20 | 30-35
Coal 50 kg |1.75-2.00 | 50-80
Typewriter each 300 2,500
US dollar bill | $1 _- 150-300
US script St (1) 120-180
US gold dollar} $1 - 800

(1) Authorized conversion rate at US
Amny finance offices and for MG court
fines is one dollar value in RM 10. 1 Ib
used above is German pound, equalled to
4% kilogram or 1.1 US pound.

This is due not only to the control
measures that are currently enforced
by the German agencies and by Mili-
tary Government, but also to the
traditional German habit of obedience
to governmental regulations.

In general, most of the black or
gray marketing done by the farmers
stems from his needs for argicultural
requisites and essential consumer
goods. When the farmer calls on the
blacksmith for horse shoes and nails,
he is often required to make payment
in farm produce. When the farmer
approaches the lumber operator or the
repair-parts shop for material, he is
expected to compensate for essential
items with food payments.

In contrast to the black-market
operations, compensation trading
amounts to a large proportion—per-
haps from one-tHird to one-half—of
total transactions. Apart from the
primary allocations of coal, steel, and

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
and other basic materials the business
transactions at the producer or whole-
sale level are conducted under some
form of compensation trade. Even
coal, steel, and chemicals find their
way into compensation trade.

Compensation trading is important
in volume in Germany today because
no one wants to give up goods for
money alone. This is the result of the
discrediting of the

The gray market cannot simply be
legalized without gravely weakening
the legal market. The gray market
cannot be abolished by legislation as
long as the white market does not
have the bases for economic vitality
that would make the cumbersome de-
vices of the gray market unnecessary.
Until the white market gains that
vitality through increased supplies

5,000,000 it reinforced those statutes
and compelled a closer examination
of their content.

Passage of this law called forth two
proposals by the German bizonal Ex-
ecutive Committee for Economics to
legalize compensation trade to a cer-
tain extent. After rejection of these
two. consecutive proposals by the Bi-
partite Economic Control Group (now

currency and an
extreme scarcity
of all goods and
materials. This
form of trade in-
volves primarily
industrial produc-
ers and traders.
The products
bartered come
chiefly from Ger-
man production
or stocks, but
through contact
with black-market
channels some
quantities of Al-
lied gasoline,
chocolate, soap,
and small quan-
tities of imported
raw material enter
into compensa-
tion trade, too.

=ESUVOUUOUUOUUUUUA U0 00000 N AUER RSET

Directive AG 383.8 GPA-AGO entitled “Elimination of Black Market
Activities by Individual Members of the Occupation Forces" was issued
Jan. 10 by Headquarters EUCOM. Copies of the directive were
distributed to all American personnel in Germany. It reads:

1. Respect for government is essential to the success of a democratic
government, It is essential that an example in the field be set by the
occupation forces if our mission is to be accomplished, Utilization of
the black market, even to a minor degree, indicates a lack of respect
for our own regulations and sets a bad example for the German people.
2. The term “black marketing” includes violations of rationing regul-
ations, unlawful sale or barter of PX and Commissary merchandise and
imported goods, and violations of currency control regulations.

Various regulations have been promulgated, designed to stabilize the
economy of the occupied countries, to outlaw inflation, crime and
general civil unrest and to prevent illegal transactions for profit. The
effort to curtail and break up organized black market activities by the
various police agencies has been effective, and generally the conduct
of the majority of the members of the occupation forces has been law-
abiding, Nevertheless, such activities by individual members of the
occupation forces have continued, and the standards while greatly
improved have not yet attained the desired objective.

the Bipartite Com-
merce and In-
dustry Group),

the Bipartite Eco-
nomic Panel, on
Aug. 7 instructed
the BECG as fol-
lows:

“Illegal com-
pensation trans-
actions should be
prosecuted under
existing law. The
German economic
ministers should
be directed that
such discretionary
powers as_ they
now exercise un-
der existing law
should not be used
to authorize com-
pensation trans-
action in goods

The agents of
this trade are gen-
erally business-

It is believed that these activities result form unfamiliarity with and
a lack of comprehension of the economic conditions in Germany, their
causes and the resultant regulations necessary for the establishment of

which are subject
to rationing for
consumption or
which involve the

men, including a free economy. These activities nullify in considerable degree the diversion of ra-
the principal offi- noteworthy participation of the individuals of this command in the tioned products
cials of well- (Continued on Page 16) from normal dis-
established bus- — FiniiiiUiUMTT NE «© tribution chan-

iness concerns—
in fact, anyone who possesses goods.
With compensation trade in general,
the amount of time spent in locating
Partners and consummating deals
takes up a sizeable part of people's
time and constitutes a major drag on
Productivity. It destroys the efficiency
inherent in the division of labor.
Compensation trade among pro-
ducers and distributors or goods to

Workers comprises the bulk of Ger- °

Many's gray market. It exists along-
Side the white market, or regular
System of allocation, rationing and
Sales and purchases for money alone
at legal prices.

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

and through reestablishment of a
functioning money and a functioning
system of prices and wages, there can
be no real solution of the gray market
problem.

The problem, however, is better
understood today than a year ago,
and accumulated experience points
the way to practical solutions. ACA
Law No. 50 of March 20, 1947 placed
heavy penalties on the intentional or
negligent unlawful use of rationed
goods of any kind. The law made
nothing unlawful that had not been
so under earlier German statutes; but
by raising the maximum penalties to
hard labor for life and a fine of RM

5

nels... It is Mili-
tary Government policy to prohibit
and prevent such transactions, not to
acquiesce in or approve them.”

HE KASSEL District Court, on

Sept. 8 in the “Spinnfaser trial,”
declared that Paragraph 1a of the
War Economy Ordinance of 1942,
“Forbidden Barter Transactions,” still
has legal effect and stands in the way
of any approval of compensation
transactions by German economic ad-
ministrations. This decision pointed
out that compensation trade in gen-
eral was unlawful and therefore sub-
ject to the penalties of Law No. 50.

(Continued on Page 10)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
wean

IHE FIRST postwar film to be made

in Bavaria recently had a mini-
ature world premier at Munich's once
palatial Luitpold Theater, complete
with klieg lights and celebrities. No
cement footprints of movie stars were
made in the lobby. In fact, because of
bombing, there was very little lobby.
Otherwise it was an event reminiscent
of Grauman's Chinese on Hollywood
Boulevard.

The film took two months, 1,000,000
marks and many headaches to com-
plete. The reviews were lukewarm
but audience reaction was favorable,
The Germans liked it because it not
only brought back many of their old
favorites for the first time since war's
end, but it also represented another
“first” along the road to recovery, For
the Americans interested in the suc-
cess of the occupation, it was docu-
mentary evidence that ingenuity and
the skill to improvise were not com-
pletely dormant among the Germans.

By John A. Biggs
Deputy PIO, OMG Bavaria

On its own merits, the film was
good. Taking into consideration the
shortages of everything from raw film
to talent, it was a production that fell
little short of colossal.

“Zwischen Gestern und Morgen”
(Between Yesterday and Tomorrow)

had been carefully selected from
John A. Biggs, who wrote
Hollywood in Bavaria, was

an advertising copywriter in
New York and California, and a
radio and script writer in Holly-
wood before arriving overseas.
He came to Germany to work
with the TI&E Bulletin, then
was employed for a time by
The Stars and Stripes before
joining the OMGB PIO staff.

hundreds of submitted scripts because
its theme, dealing with the post-war
reconstruction of the lives of ordinary
people would strike a note of familiar-
ity in the minds of all Germans. In
addition to this, in an unobtrusive way
it was a powerful diatribe against the
evils of Nazism.

Production began in late June, 1947,
at Geiselgasteig, the Bavarian Film-
kunst, three miles outside Munich,

Much of the cast had to be brought
from Berlin, still the theatrical center
of Germany. Stage and film talent
have always been far more inter
changeable in Germany than in
America, where New York is the un-
disputed stage capital, and Hollywood
the Mecca toward which cinema neo-
phytes turn their faces.

CENES IN “Zwischen Gestern und
Morgen” calling for bombed-out
buildings were shot in Munich, The
main railroad station and the skeleton
remains of the once-internationally

Scenes taken from the film “Zwischen Gestern und Morgen.” Players in the photo (left) are Sybille
Schmitz, Willy Birgel and Viktor de Kowa, Hildegard Knef and Willy Birgel are shown in the picture
(right).

(ICD OMGB)

7

+

--- Page 10 ---
Main studio at Bavarian Filmkunst, Geiselgasteig, near Munich,

famous Regina-Palast were sufficiently
realistic ruins as they stood. How-
ever, the huge pre-war lobby of the
hotel had to be reconstructed at the
studio, and was about 10 feet larger
all around than the original. Every
stick of wood and brick that went
into its building was a monument to
the foraging talents of someone,

Every morning for the two months
it took to make the picture the com-
pany was faced with the same problem.
No one was quite sure whether there
would be enough film on hand to
complete the day's shooting schedule.
Many a scene was taken with only
65 feet of film remaining in the camera.
With this shortage always prevalent,
Tetakes were a luxury in which the
Cast couldn't afford to indulge.

Film procured from many sources
ina wide variety of different emulsions
Presented another obstacle to the
imported cast offered more difficulties.
cameramen. Food and housing for the
imported cast offered more difficulties.

As the film progressed, lack of
Power in one of the driest summers in
Bavaria’s history became another
handicap, Shooting was held up for
days at a time because of complete
failure of power, or frequencies too

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

(ICD OMGB)

low to operate the high voltage lights
and sound equipment.

The picture was completed on
schedule, however, and the canned
products created prospects of money
for the German economy. Switzer-
land, Belgium, and the Scandinavian
countries initiated negotiations for the
picture. Lt. Col. William C. Rogers,
chief of Film, Theater, and Music
Branch, OMGB, has received inquiries
from several leading American dis-
tributors who have expressed interest
in Bavaria's first picture since the war.

AVARIA FILMKUNST, where the

film was produced, began in 1919
with one rickety shed. Today it offers
three large sound stages and one
which, upon completion, will be Ger-
many's largest. It was started during
the war.

Until the end of the war this
company produced 87 feature films in
addition to synchronizing the German
to five foreign films. This sound work
is being continued today. Since the
beginning of the occupation German
sound tracks have been added at the
Bavarian plant to 12 American films
for release in Germany. These in-
cluded “Anna and the King of Siam,”
“You Can't Take It with You,” “Keys

7

of the Kingdom,” “The Hunchback of
Notre Dame,” and “Laura.”

However, Bavaria Filmkunst has
gone out of the picture-making busi-
ness itself. Today the studios at
Geiselgasteig are operated ona purely
rental basis. Any company with the
license and funds can rent the facilities
of the film studio to make a picture.
Scripts and personnel of all companies
must be approved by Military Govern-
ment. Outside of that, the Film Section
of Information Control Division, which
maintains offices on the lot, adheres
to a strictly hand-off policy, except
when aid is requested by the Germans
themselves. Otherwise the success or
failure of any picture can be con-
sidered a purely indigenous affair.

“Lang ist der Weg” (Long is the
Way), a picture with an all-Jewish
cast, was recently finished and is due
for release in a few weeks. Another
picture is in production at Geisel-
gasteig now, and plans. are being
made to shoot at least three more
before the end of the year.

Union Schools Aided

Unions of the American Federation
of Labor, the Congress of Industrial
Organizations, the Railroad Brother-
hoods, and the Union of Railway
Conductors and Engineers in the
United States have contributed $3,500
for the purchase of CARE packages
for German trade union schools in the
US Zone of Germany and the US
Sector of Berlin,

Schools receiving the packages are
the Academy of Labor, Frankfurt, 15
packages per month from December
1947 through July 1948; the Hesse
Federation of Labor School, Oberur-
sel, 10 packages per month from
December through July; the Bavarian
Federation of Labor School, Kochel-
see, 10 packages per month from
December through June; and Leusch-
ner Haus, Berlin, a trade union school,
10 packages per month from December
through July.

University Building Returned
The removal of the dependents’
high school from Erlangen to Nurem-
berg made possible the return of the
Geological - Mineralogical _ Institute
building to the University of Erlangen.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
JHE ANNOUNCEMENT was made

a few days ago that $100,000,000
will be available in the first three
months of this year to purchase
abroad raw materials and supplies for
the Bizonal Area of Germany. The
German Economic Administration is
now engaged in preparing the detailed
list of the commodities which are to
be brought in to support the revival
of industry in the Bizonal Area and a
further list to provide the consumers
goods which are so badly needed by
the population,

Before the war, the supply from
abroad of cotton, wool, copper, tin,
rubber and oil was taken for granted.
They were necessary for the economic
life of Germany. Similarly, the food-
stuffs needed to supplement the in-
adequate food supply of Germany
were imported. Germany manufactur-
ed and sold abroad the products of
her industry, and used the foreign
exchange so secured to pay for the
essential food and materials which
were not available here,

When the war ended, this flow of
imported foods and materials ceased
almost completely. Germany had no
foreign exchange, and her damaged
and disrupted industries were in no
position to meet minimum domestic
requirements, much less to provide
the export goods which would pro-
duce new foreign exchange.

The United States and United King-
dom Governments, as occupying
powers, were faced with an enormous
economic and financial problem. The
German people of their zones would
literally starve to death if foreign ex-
change were not made available to
buy abroad the food needed to supple-
ment the agricultural production of
the Bizonal Area. The two govern-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

By Lawrence Wilkinson
Director, Economics Division, OMGUS

ments did not hesitate—they provid-
ed from their own funds the money
needed to buy food for Germany.
And these have been enormous
sums indeed, $295,500,000 in 1945 and
1946, $516,412,500 in 1947, and the
forecast for 1948 is $750,000,000. You

“The German Import Program”
was originally presented by Mr.
Wilkinson on Jan. 22 over the
US-controlled radio network in
the Military Government series
of weekly broadcasts. The text
was adapted for publication in
this magazine.

might well have thought that the two
governments would have made every
effort to repay themselves for these
great outlays by selling German goods
abroad and using the resulting for-
eign exchange to reduce the German
indebtedness to them.

UT THEY did not do so. On the

contrary, neither the US nor the
UK Government has any intention of
asking for any repayment of these
enormous advances for at least four
or five years to come. Instead, the
foreign exchange proceeds of German
exports have been entirely set aside
to be used to pay for those other im-
ports without which Germany cannot
live—the cotton, the wool, the copper
and the oil. None of these funds have
been withdrawn in order to pay for
food. It is not planned or expected
that any such withdrawals will be
made in 1948,

These funds have been jealousl
guarded. They are the life blood |
German industry, not to be
thoughtlessly or unproductively. The
wisdom of this policy is apparent to
day when the sum of $100,000,000
to be spent in the next three mont
in buying those materials which
German bizonal economic authoriti
consider of fundamental importance
to the German economy. Addition
tens of millions will be availab
every month thereafter.

It is important that everyone re
ognize the significance of this fa
—that German exports produce
foreign exchange to be spent
materials and supplies selected by
German Economic Administration
speed the recovery of German
dustry and to supply the everydaj
needs of the German people of tht
Bizonal Area. f

This is a process which rapidh
multiplies its profits. Cynical re
have been heared that exports merelj
subtract from the goods available t
the German people. The contrary i
the case. One hundred million dolla
of imports, when manufactured
finished goods produces many hi
of millions for the German pi
and for further exports to keep
process expanding.

The greater the exports, so m
greater are the imports, and prot
tion and the standard of living Ti
together. Exports, in this way,
raise the standard of living m
further and faster than if the e:
goods were consumed in Germany:

Any German worker, any Ge:
manufacturer of the Bizonal Area
by his work or his developm
export opportunities, increases”
flow of exports, makes possible

FEBRUARY 10,

--- Page 12 ---
many-fold increased flow of imports
without which no recovery is possible.
This, of course, is in addition to the
direct incentive which has been given
to employees and workers in export
lines, whereby the manufacturer is
permitted to use five percent of the
export foreign exchange proceeds for
imports required by his own business,
and another five percent is set aside
for the import of goods for the
workers in exporting companies.

HE SUCCESS of this import pro-
iy gram for materials is in German
hands. If the German Economic Ad-
ministration makes a wise choice of
the materials to be imported, and the
uses to which they are to be put, the
program cannot fail. The Joint Import-
Export Agency of the US/UK Military
Governments exists for one purpose
only—to assist in overcoming the
difficult problems of communications,
representation, procurement and sales,
and will turn over to German hands
as rapidly as possible the responsibil-
ity for the foreign trade of Germany.

It has been suggested that if Ger-
man authorities had been permitted
to use the funds provided by the US
and UK Governments for the purchase
of food, more and better quality foods
would be available on German rations.
If there were the remotest’ possibility
that this were true, Military Govern-
ment would be only too happy to
turn over to German authorities the
problem of finding in a world which
is crying for bread, enough food to
keep the Germans alive.

Only the fact that the US and UK
Governments plead the case of Ger-
many before the international food
allocation boards-has made it possible
to buy abroad the grain, flour, fats,
Sugar, pulses—*4,334,352 tons in 1947—
which the Germans are eating today.

The German import program is
thus a very simple one—Military
Government finds the food in the
World and provides the money with
which to buy it. The Germans on
their side must provide the exports to
Pay for the raw materials, which the
Bizonal Area requires for its recovery
and rapid rehabilitation. The Germans
have $100,000,000 as a starter, and
unlimited possibilities for increasing
this amount. Their recovery and their
Well being are in their own hands.

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

Hans Schneider (left), telegraph chief, receives a CARE package from
Walter Fritze, chief news editor of DENA in the Bad Nauheim office.
(Photo by Glynn, DENA)

WENTY - FIVE CARE packages,

donated by the American News-
paper Guild for German employees of
DENA, US-licensed German news
agency, were distributed recently at
its headquarters in Bad Nauheim,
Hesse. The shipment was the first of
several expected from the Guild dur-
ing the coming months. The Guild has
reported it has already started 80 pack-
ages toward Germany, in addition to
several large sacks of rice.

The gifts are the result of donations
to a campaign sponsored by the
Guild's publication, “The Guild Re-
porter,” to assist needy DENA em-
ployees with food and clothing. It be-
gan when William Tisdel of the Boston
Globe, a former DENA press control
officer in Munich, appealed to guilds-
men to aid DENA’s journalists through.
the winter.

According to Wilbur Bade, editor of
“The Guild Reporter,” the campaign
will continue several months, In-
dications were that several DENA

9

editors and reporters will also be
“adopted” by local Guild chapters in
the United States. Worn clothing and
office supplies will also be sent the
agency, Bade advised.

The Guild recently sent 20 CARE
packages to Austrian journalists and
arranged for “adoption” of 12 of their
number,

Publications Serve DP’s

Displaced Persons in the US Zone
of Germany are served by 30 regularly-
published newspapers and 36 maga-
zines, written, edited and prepared by
DP staffs, EUCOM Headquarters an-
nounced,

Most of the newspapers are printed
by German establishments, Approxi-
mately 127,000 copies are published
regularly, the majority of them once
a week.

Authorization to publish a newspaper
or magazine is granted by EUCOM
Headquarters, Civil Affairs Division,
and newsprint is provided by IRO.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
(Continued from Page 5)
Black Market

It went beyond the directive of the
Bipartite Economic Panel which merely
demanded the prosecution of “illegal
compensation transactions” without
defining such transactions. It did not
have the effect, however, of cancell-
ing the two invitations of the Bipartite
Economic Group to German govern-
mental agencies to develop accept-
able ways of regulating compensating
trade.

However, the Hessian Land high
court in Frankfurt on Nov. 28 revers-
ed the decision of the Kassel court
and declared that under certain con-
ditions compensation transactions were
lawful. These decisions are now under
legal study to develop a uniform
policy.

N THE SECOND action the Bipartite

group offered to give “sympathetic
attention to the possibility of approv-
ing the principle of compensation trad-
ing” as soon as (a) a uniform flow-
back rationing system was instituted
for rubber, textiles, leather, paper and
other basic commodities, and (b) a
uniform system and an adequate in-
spection were set up to cover the flow
of goods.

Since mid-summer, when the two
‘compensation trade proposals sub-
mitted by the Bizonal Executive Coun-
cil for Economics were rejected by
the Bipartite Economic Group, the bi-
zonal German authorities have not
formally dealt with the problem of
compensation trade. This inaction re-
flected fear that a new proposal might
be rejected again by the bipartite
authorities and that a production crisis
might be caused by a renewed and
possibly more rigid prohibition of
compensation trade,

Meanwhile, the Kassel trial pointed
out that it was a law rather than a
new administrative directive that had
to be provided to cope with this mat-
ter, and the new German Economic
Council for the Bizonal Area was the
proper agency to provide such a law.
At year-end, however, no bill had
been brought before the Economic
Council specifically to amend or re-
place the prohibition of compensation
trade contained in the War Economy
Ordinance.

The allied Control Authority law,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Military Government directives,
and the court decisions have affected
conditions in the various Laender
of the US Zone in different ways.

In Wuerttemberg- Baden, the Eco-
nomics Ministry took the position
that the prohibition of compensation
trade is complete, at least for all trade
within the Bizonal Area; but it
attempts to press compensation trans-
actions with the French and Soviet
Zones into official, intergovernmental
channels. Meanwhile all \applications
of manufacturers for permission to
compensate are refused; but no meas-
ures are taken to prevent the trades.

The Bavarian Ministry of Econo-
mics withdrew the compensation
quotas by which enterprises had been
able to dispose freely of certain per-
centages of their output. However, a
new system of quotas was prepared
in the ministry and put into force on
Nov. 7. The new ordinance does not
provide for any over-all compensation
quotas valid for all producers in an
industry. Instead, permission for each
individual compensation transaction is
to be obtained from the local eco-
nomic offices.

The Land Economic Office does not
control the issuance of the permits;
but it is to receive monthly reports of
transactions approved by the local

and for essential German use.”

10

The first mass-production passenger car (above) to be turned out by
Opel corporation since the end of the war rolled off the assembly line a
Ruesselsheim, Hesse, recently. The car is a two-door battleship gray foul-
cylinder Olympia. It was described by Maj, Leo Mandell, Hesse MG export
import director, as the first of a “long line of cars to be sold both for expor

offices. Only interzonal compensati
transactions are subject to approvy;
by the Land authorities. There is n¢
intention to interfere with the com.
pensation ratios arranged between the
parties to a compensation deal.

HE APPLICATIONS may be a

proved by the local econo:
offices within limits set for produce
in a certain industry, provided that t]
transactions do not involve foodstuffs,
coal from other sources than allotment
to the mines for their own consumj
tion, or raw materials allocated t
the applicant. Trading firms are no}
eligible. The firms are to report eve
month to the local economic office
the transactions carried out und
their permits,

The procurement of necessary raw
materials and parts and of goods for
use of workers is expected to be
covered by these limits. A spe
directive of the Bavarian Ministry of
Economics of Nov. 17 empowers the
local economic offices to approve
distribution of consumer goods to the
workers “if necessary to maintain
performance of the workers.” 4

Distribution of foodstuffs, raw
materials, and production equip-
ment is excluded; but the firms may
obtain consumer goods for this pure
(Continued on Page 23)

(PIO, OMGH))

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
AN P

Frankfurt Meeting Brings Divided Views

Results of the January meeting in
Frankfurt, at which the bizonal eco-
nomic organization was strengthened,
left half of the US Zone press
without a very clearly-defined point
of view. The other half was divided
between approval and disappointment.

Many newspapers praised the dem-
ocratic aspects of the meeting,
while others deplored what they
called a lack of such procedure. The
fact that no western government was
cieated caused surprise and mixed
reactions. Many papers pointed to
unsolved economic problems, and
expressed hope for more German
initiative.

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim) found that the re-
sult of the Frankfurt conference was
“a compromise, and a new and pro-
visory solution that corresponded to
the world and German political
situations:

“Nothing has been done, either
from the Allied or from the German
side, to make impossible the uni-

‘fication of Germany for which Ger-
mans long. On the contrary, all the
Partners in the discussions spoke. for
that unity .... It would have been
wrong to close the doors which today
are at least theoretically still open...
The results of the Frankfurt confer-
ence offer new justification to our
optimism .,. . We don’t question for
the moment who will be more re-
sponsible for our future, German or
Allied officials. Humanly speaking,
we all are responsible for what is
being done,”

The Frankfurter Neue Presse said
the most remarkablé feature of the
Conference was that for the first time
German officials sat on equal terms
at a round table conference with
Tepresentatives of the occupation
Powers. It declared:

"Matters were discussed rather than
dictated. This inaugurates a new
Phase in the relationship of the two
Military Governments to responsible
German Officialdom .... The result

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

was a compromise between partners.
No compromise is 100 percent satis-
factory. Many questions which sre
most urgent for the German popu-
lation, such as food and equal laws
for victor and vanquished; currency
reform, etc. were discussed only in
passing or not at all.”

The Suedost Kurier (Bad Reichen-
hall) found cause for optimism in the
fact that the question of German
unity was not settled at Frankfurt:

“Retention of the state of political
uncertainty while simultaneously
attempting to.... mitigate the ten-
sions between nations which are be-
coming intolerable — — these are
the keenly-awaited results of the
conference at Frankfurt. The fears
that they might mean a serious blow
to the federalistic aims of certain
states proved to be unfounded....
The most serious problems of the
present and near future — — creation
of a Trizone; currency reform, etc. are
brought nearer a solution, The Ger-
man and the Bavarian public ....
now expect serious, quick, clear and
comprehensive measures to save our
economy from bankruptcy.”

Der Allgaeuer (Kempten) declared
the results of the Frankfurt conference
were “a great disappointment,” but
in referring to these in the light of
the failure of the Foreign Ministers
Conference in London,” it added:

“They serve only to strengthen
fears that the United States as well

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press,
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not nec-
essarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

11

as the other western powers have no
alternative plan after the London
breakdown. Without going into de-
tails it can be said that the Frank-
furt Conference brought no clear
decisions. Nothing better happened
in Frankfurt than what has been done
for two and half years, namely doc-
toring around with symptoms instead
of getting to the root of the trouble,”

Hans Weber, licensee of Main Post
(Wuerzburg), seeing the spector of
centralism, wrote:

“The reorganized bizonal adminis-
tration has far-reaching tasks and
powers without having been legiti-
mized by parliamentary elections. It
is, however, impossible to create
confidence in the democratic develop-
ment of Germany by starting out with
a violation of democratic procedure:
(At Frankfurt) one has put the task
of organizing democracy in Germany
into the uncontrolled hands of party
politicians and economic interests,
without even giving the public a
chance to express its views with the
ballots."

The Wetzlarer Neue Zeitung said:
“Some talked before Frankfurt of an~
economic merger of the three zones.
Others believed currency reform was
imminent. There was talk of the crea-
tion of an occupation statute....

“Instead we were witnesses to a
meeting in which leading personali-
ties of the Anglo-American occupa-
tion powers and of the German ad-
ministration discussed questions of
organization .... The impression that
the whole affair made on the journal-
ists who besieged the doors was
undoubtedly disappointing. Only
sober observers dared to say: ‘All in
all it appears to be a bit of pro-
gress.'"

Licensee Erwin Schoettle said in the
Stuttgarter Nachrichten: “The discus-
sions in Frankfurt have been answered
from the eastern zone with out-
pourings of wrath and defamation and
charges of high treason .... Their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
uniformity of language permits one
to discern the common source....

“Certain facts must be stated: What
is now being created in the western
zones by way of experiments and
negotiations has long since existed
in the Soviet Zone. In the Soviet
Zone there are central German ad-
ministrative bodies aside from the
governments and parliaments of the
Laender, These central administra-
tions ..., are not subject to parlia-
mentary control through Germans
like the Frankfurt Economic Council.
Instead they receive their orders from
SMA (Soviet Military Administra-
tion)....

“The eastern state is in all details
a fact that cannot be overlooked.
This really ought to quiet the dema-
gogic noise of the unqualified repre-
sentatives of the East.”

Tax Decrees Criticized

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) criticiz-
ed tax decrees of the Allied Control
Council:

“The political effects of these tax
laws are contrary to US ideology...
Bolshevism demands from the people
...that they dedicate their labor to
the state... Although wages are paid,
the building-up of capital is not per-
mitted...The United States is direct-
ly opposed to such as system... How-
ever, in the US Zone the taxes are
such that the individual can retain
only a fraction of his income for
himself... Thereby the essential con-
ditions for Bolshevist economic prin-
ciples are fulfilled...

“Property Control returns property
to Nazis who have been declared
‘followers’... In other words, at a
time when democratic elements are
being prevented from building up
capital the Nazis are getting back
their property, well-cared for and un-
damaged... In the future these Nazi
elements will represent a powerful
accumulation of economic strength,
while democratic elements will have
nothing to show for their efforts but
tax receipts.”

The Frankfurter Rundschau said
Control Council Law No. 61 was a
bitter Christmas gift, because all
classes of the population had hoped
for a large-scale tax reform measure.
The newspaper continued:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“The new rates give the lower
groups only slight relief, whereas the
middle and high income groups get
higher taxes... Industry, chambers
of commerce, finance ministers, and
trade unions have repeatedly propos-
ed tax relief... pointing out that ex-
cessive taxes restrict enterprise and
the will to work, and lead to less tax
receipts rather than otherwise. Since
the Allied Control Council overruled
such objections, it must be assumed
that it does not regard the present
time as favorable for relief... Oppos-
ed to the people’s wish for less taxes
there stands the hard necessity to
pay for burdens imposed by the Nazi
war.”

‘Only 70 Deaths‘

Henry Bernhard in the Stuttgarter
Nachrichten commented on the fact
that ex-Nazi Judge Cuhorst through
his lawyer had filed a libel complaint
against the denazification minister of
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden:

“Anybody who heretofore has
closed his eyes to the fact that we
have entered a phase of renazification
must be grateful to Herr Cuhorst and
his lawyer for waking him up with
a sledge hammer .... There has been
many a case of a murderer being
acquitted for lack of evidence—but
that such a criminal should sue the
Minister of Justice for defamation is
something new....

“After World War I the responsible
nationalists recovered very quickly,
but they reached a high point com-
parable to this only after five years,
in 1923, when some contemptible
scribbler succeeded in pilloring Presi-
dent Ebert as a traitor... We have
started on the same way again....
Now the Party of Renazification has
found its leader .... Heil Cuhorst!”

The Heilbronner Stimme discused
the Cuhorst Case as follows:

“The name of Cuhorst was for
every citizen of Stuttgart, yes of
Swabia, in the last years of the Nazi
regime a concept that made men
tremble. ‘Voila, gentlemen, the
shambles!’ So Cuhorst used to say
when, buttoning his robe, he entered
the court. Only 70 to 80 capital sen-
tences were pronounced by the for-
mer president of the Special Court,
his Stuttgart lawyer claims .... ‘Only

12

70 to 80 death sentences!’ Truly a
grandiose piece of the dialectic of
our terrifying age ....

“A people, however, that lost al-
most everything under such points
of view; its honor and the regard of
the world, and that does not rebe]
against the cynical impudence of the
charge filed by Cuhorst, shall see
where it will be a few years from
now.”

Marshall Praised

The Offenbach Post headlined an
editorial “MM” and explained that
one M stands for “Morgenthau” (for-
mer US Secretary of the Treasury
Henry Morgenthau who proposed a
few years ago a plan including a hard
peace and agrarian economy for Ger-
many) and the other for ‘Marshall
(US Secretary of State George C. Mar.
shall).

“From the destructive Morgenthau
Plan to the constructive Marshall Plan
— — what a surprisingly brief time
and what a difference between the
concepts of international relations
that lies in these two names and two
programs!"

Marshall was called “the man who
has given to millions of desperate
human beings in Europe faith and new
courage to live’ and his speech cf |
June 6, 1947 (at Harvard announcing
his plan) was said to have “lifted
Europe out of lethargy and despair
and to have placed western Germany
back into the community of the forces
of reconstruction in all nations.’

The article ended by demanding
that the two American M's should be
followed by two German M's standing
for “Mehr Mut" (more courage).

Lack of Freedom

“Unborn democratic freedom is
murdered in. eastern Germany,” de-
clared the US-licensed Tagesspiegel
(Berlin) in an editorial on the poli-
tical development in the Soviet Zone.

“Dangerous things are going on in
that part of our country," said the
paper. “It is an ancient truth that an
occupied country cannot enjoy
genuine democracy, but it is another
ancient truth that a country whose
totalitarian and intolerant attitude

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

--- Page 16 ---
plunged the whole world into disaster
needs democracy."

Continuing, the paper gave an
outline of the history of party poli-
tics in the eastern zone of Germany
and declared that it started with four
parties which did not develop “by
themselves” but “by order” and that
“they all did what one of them
wanted.” The paper stated that the
development of the Christian Demo-
cratic Union has shown that “a
genuine political need” in a demo-
cracy will force its way even when
it does not fit in to the general
scheme.

“Now this development seems to
have reached its end," observed the
paper. “Under the slogan of unity
one thinks one can make two parties
out of three, and it would do if for
this purpose the CDU is separated
from Jakob Kaiser (party leader de-
posed by Soviet order). Then it would
no longer be a party of its own but
be degraded to a branch of the SED

(communistic Social Unity Party) just
like the LDP (Liberal Democratic
Party)."

“The Kaiser case makes clear what
is politics and what is fiction in the
eastern zone,” declared the paper,
adding that during the past months
even “unpolitical people in Germany
should have understood that the
western powers are not willing to
lend an ear to the unity slogan un-
less we prove that unity is more than
a political catchword.”

The paper advised that for 12 years
Germans demonstrated to the world
what happened when politics were
replaced by fiction.

“Not even for 1,000 days could they
keep up in the eastern zone the
fiction that the Communist Party is
a democratic party,” observed the
paper, adding that “the most curious
thing is that the SED dispensed with
this reputation at a time when it
needed it most badly.”

Semler Dismissed for Remarks

Dr. Johannes Semler, executive
director of the Bizonal Economics
Department since November, was dis-
missed from his office on joint in-
structions of the Military Governors
of the US and British Zones following
investigation of remarks he made in
a speech before the Land Committee
of the Christian Social Union Jan. 4
in Erlangen, Bavaria.

In a letter given to Semler in Frank-
furt Jan. 27 by the co-chairmen of
the Bipartite Control Office, he was
told: “The statements made in this
speech with respect to payments for
food and coal are not in accordance
with the facts. As you held an official
Position as director of economics of
the Bizonal Area, you should have
known the facts or taken steps to
ascertain the facts before making
these false statements.

“The general tone of your criticisms
is not objective but indicates an atti-
tude of malicious opposition towards
the Occupying powers, The Military
Governors believe that the economic
Tecovery of the combined zones

cannot be promoted by such an atti-
tude...,

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

“In view of the interest the US/UK
Governments have in according to
any individual a right to express an
opinion, it ‘has been decided that no
further action will be taken against
you than to remove you from office.
However, it should be understood
that this right to express on opinion
does not include the right of a re-
sponsible governmental official to
make statements without verifying
the facts, Nor does it include the
tight to hold public office, in which
cooperation with the occupying
powers is essential, after a public
official has indicated that such co-
operation will not be given.”

Among Semler’s reported state-
ments on food and coal were the
following:

“Corn was sent, and (also) chicken
feed, and we are paying for it
dearly—it is no a present, We pay
for it in dollars gained by German
work and German exports and are
expected to say ‘thank you’ for it in
addition. It is high time that German
politicians ceased to say ‘thank you’
for this supplementary food.”

On coal, Semler said: “Everything

13

has been upset by the idiotic sub-
sidies for coal and iron up there (the
Ruhr). Do you want to say that every
consumer of coal in the industry
would. not have paid the 1.50 RM or
2 RM quite gladly? All the same he
hardly gets any coal, It the price of
coal had been increased in good time
and the minimum costs made up then
there would not be over two billions
in the budget of the British Zone
which will now be very kindly divided
among the southern Laender.”

Immediately following the reporting
of the Erlangen speech, the German
press of the US Zone published out-
spoken editorials, some recommend-
ing his removal from office and others
demanding that Semler be required to
prove his statements,

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) said:
“Dr. Semler is not an elected official
but was appointed by a party bureau-
cracy. Perhaps this is the reason for
Herr Semler's ambition to make
himself popular with the Bavarian
public, His political cleverness is just
enough for him to realize that an
attack on the occupation power is the
cheapest way to reap nationalist
applause here,

“On the other hand, his political
stupidity prevents him from seeing
that, by his grotesque reproaches, he
injures the best-intentioned efforts
for the German future, in view of
America’s great food imports.... A
cheap attempt to blame Military Gov-
ernment for his own failures.”

Dr. George Pix, editor-in-chief of
the Isar Post (Landshut) wondered
“whether Dr. Semler if, for example,
he were a minister in the Russian
Zone, would have made these ‘cou-
rageous statements’ ..., against the
occupying power there? We have
every reason to doubt it....

We do not want to sing a song of
praise about the Americans, There are
things about MG policy—as probably
there are in the policies of all gov-
ernments—which we Germans might
like to see otherwise. No sensible
American will deny this .... But
when someone helps one—particularly
if it is a former enemy—then it is
only fit and proper to acknowledge
it. In any case the helper should not
be besmirched.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
HE ATMOSPHERE of a New Eng-

land town meeting characterizes
the get-togethers of the 14 German-
American discussion clubs organized
in the US Occupied Area of Germany.
The Germans and Americans freely
argue such questions as the compara-
tive merits of the constitutions of the
United States and Bavaria. The dis-
cussions are frequently spirited.

The first such club was founded at
Ansbach on Jan, 13, 1947 in recogni-
tion of the MG belief that members
of the occupying forces and German
civilians needed joint undertakings
to further better understanding.
Eighteen Americans and 14 Germans,
from many walks of life, met to plan
their club, and draft its rules,

Since that time 13 similar clubs
have been organized. Munich has two
clubs, one for men and one for women.
Others are in Ansbach, Bavaria; Hof-
heim, Hesse; Bamberg, Bavaria; Hei-

delberg; Stuttgart; Bremen; Nurem-
berg; Frankfurt; Karlsruhe; Darm-
stadt; Wiesbaden; and Wuerzburg,
Bavaria,

The aims of the first club, as de-
fined in their articles of association
form a pattern which has been
generally followed, They are:

1. To promote mutual understand-
ing among people of different nation-
alities (particularly between the
American and the German people),
religions, occupation, and ways of life.

2. To further worthy civic projects
in the local community such as wel-
fare enterprises, assistance to youth
activities, lectures, discussions, mu-
sical and cultural programs.

3. To encourage the development
of a keener appreciation of those
principles of human relations, in-
cluding mutual tolerance, which favor
the building of civic and moral
consciousness, and individual civic
initiative and responsibility.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

SSION GROU

4. Insofar as this club encourages
or organizes discussion meetings, and
lectures, no particular segment
thereof shall dominate the program
arrangement with any consistently
limited or narrow economic or poli-
tical philosophy program, Rather an
attempt will be made, on contro-
versial matters, to present balanced
points of view and advocate none as
an organization, no matter what the
particular attitude of individual
members may be.

The usual pattern has been to or-
ganize the clubs with a handful of
interested members, then expand. A
consistent effort has been made to
maintain a varied membership, with
scholars, laborers, mechanics, politi-
cians, newspaper men, _ doctors,
preachers and other professions rep-
resented, This is novel to the Ger-
man members, who are used to
sharply-drawn class distinctions in
social clubs.

Germans and Americans meet for discussion at Stuttgarter Club, Stutt-
gart. Shown (left to right) are: Dr. Alfred Guenther, publisher; Mr. Ralph
E. Brown, Legal Division, OMGWB; Lt. Col. Irvin L. Harlow, president of
the Stuttgarter Club; Peter Guenther, publisher; Adolf Lazi,
grapher; Joseph Hall, director in the mayor's office; Dr. Hans Schumann,

and Mr. J. Ward Starr, Director, Interior Division, OMGWB.
(Signal Corps

American members of the Ansbach —
Club put up a successful fight against ©
one form of social discrimination—~
they voted down a proposal by a
German member of the club’s board —
of directors, to graduate the club's
dues on the basis of the member's _
income. It was decided that dues”
would be the same for everyone, and
there would be no discussion of”
income.

NE OF THE issues threshed out

at Ansbach, which acted as a
testing ground for many problems”
which have faced all the clubs, was
whether a young man who was the
son of a prominent Nazi family was
suitable as a member. Questions
posed in this connection included; Is
it sufficient for a prospective member
to be acceptable under the law for
Liberation from National Socialism?”
Would the proposal of a new member
by a club member be regarded as”
adequate guarantee of the nominee's”
character and acceptability? Would

photo-

Photo by T/5 Arthur E. Wright)
| :

--- Page 18 ---
clearance under the Youth Amnesty
be accepted as a guarantee of the
political attitude of a proposed
member?

It was decided that in borderline
cases, where doubt might exist, the
membership committee would weigh the
qualifications of the individual very
carefully; that neither the verdict of
the German denazification tribunal nor
the sponsorship by a member would
be regarded as sufficient, “Political
acceptability," the Ansbacher Club
concluded, “is not a matter of rigid
law interpretation but of practical
judgment adapted to each individual
case.”

The particular young German,
whose nomination in the Ansbach
Club provoked the discussion, was
accepted for membership, The decid-
ing factor in his case was that he had
been screened and employed by Mili-
tary Government,

Club meetings are usually con-
ducted bilingually, with translations
of speeches being made as they are
delivered, Sometimes in the heat of
debate amusing misconceptions arise,
such as the occasion in Stuttgart when
an American counseled a startled
German to “keep your shirt on!”

American members have envisioned
the American luncheon clubs, such
as Rotary, Lions, and Kiwanis, as a
pattern into which the German-Ameri-
can discussion clubs might event-
ually settle. They have developed
differently for two reasons. One is
the food problem, which makes a
luncheon club impractical at the pres-
ent. The other is the temperament
of the German members, who enjoy
long leisurely meetings, in contrast
to streamlined programs such as US
luncheon clubs favor,

Some of the clubs have regular
Meeting places which they rent, or
are permitted to use as guests, Other
Clubs meet at various places.

Club dues are paid in dollars by the
American members, in marks by the
German members, Average member-
Ship fee is $3 or RM 10 a quarter.
Marks are used to provide musicians
for Meetings, pay rent, pay the salary
for a permanent secretary, and hire
halls for special social occasions.
Dollars are used to buy the simple
Tefreshments which help give a

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

Wilhelm Zimmerer, newly-elected president of the Ansbach Club, con-

verses with Lt. Col. Alexander Cohn,

friendly atmosphere of relaxation at
the meetings,

N EFFORT has been made by all

of the clubs to limit the number
of standing committees, since a mini-
mum amount of organization is seen
as desirable. Three committees are
usual—membership, finance, and pro-
gram.

Club programs are varied and in-
formal. A talk on a particular sub-
ject by an invited speaker may be
given, and the club's next meeting
may be devoted to debate and dis-
cussion on the points the speaker
raised,

A Speakers’ Bureau has been set
up in Berlin by Mr. Merle Potter,
adviser to the OMGUS chief of staff
on German-American Relations and
the foster-father of all the clubs.
Among the speakers listed by the
Bureau are John Elliott, consultant to
the director of the Civil Administra-
tion Division, OMGUS; Dr. Elizabeth
Lam, a former professor of religion
at Western Reserve University and
previously the dean of women at
Occidental College in Los Angeles,
who talks on American: Experiments
in Educating Youth for Citizenship;

15

(USAAF photo)

Dr. Norman Himes, American sociol-
ogist who was on the faculty of Col-
gate University for 10 years, who
discusses an analysis of the basic
areas of agreement between Ameri-
can culture and German traditions;
Erik Reger, licensee of the Tages-
spiegel, US-licensed newspaper in
Berlin and anti-Nazi author of many
German novels, who talks on the
future of Germany from an editor's
viewpoint,

One of the most effective speakers
has been Lt. Col, Marcus Ray,
formerly special adviser to the Sec-
retary of War on Negro affairs.

Eleven of the 14 clubs presently
organized restrict their membership
to men, Munich has two clubs, one
for men, one for women; Hofheim
and Bamberg clubs have both men
and women members. All of the
clubs have frequent social meetings
where wives and women friends of
members are invited,

Welfare activities occupy the atten-
tion of many of the clubs, and they
strive to give an impetus to com-
munity projects, Bamberg, for
example, assists an orphanage, The
Munich Men's Club, under the leader-
ship of Lt. Col. W. R. Swarm, recently

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
sponsored an ice hockey match which
produced funds for local welfare.
The clubs focus attention on worthy
projects and get them started,

T THE SUGGESTION of a Ger-

man member of the Stuttgart
Club, the club is exploring the possi-
bility of founding a German-Ameri-
can high school (Mittel-Schule). This
would be a school for teen-agers
and would probably specialize either
in art, music, languages, drama, or
geopolitics. The club members be-
lieve this school would be within
their range, if financed with dollar
instruments under an export license.
German, English, and French pro-
fessors would be hired, and paid on a
scale comparable to the salary they
would receive in their own countries.

The plan includes taking over an
existing building, large enough to
accommodate a school of about 80
students—40 boys and 40 girls, Half
would be German, half American, The
German students would be promising
youngsters, and their tuition and ex-
penses underwritten by Americans.
American students would, at the
outset, be drawn from the ranks of
dependents of US occupation per-
sonnel.

A similar school was held in Hei-
delberg during the summer of 1947
with very successful results,

There has never been any division
of opinion in any of the 14 clubs
along strictly American-German lines,
except in courtesy matters. The Ger-
man members always want to elect
an American president, the Americans
always want to honor a German
member.

There has never been an attempt
to inject politics in a club meeting
or to use the clubs as pressure
groups.

NE DIFFICULTY among the clubs

has been frequent redeployment
of US members, Thus many clubs
have lost valuable personnel.

Parliamentary procedure has been
another small stumbling block. Ger-
man members have almost no con-
ception of rules of order, and display
a tendency to yield gracefully on
any point if their president takes a
stand one way or the other.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“I wish someone would translate
Roberts Rules of Order into German,”
Lt. Col. Irving L. Harlow, president of
the Stuttgart club, once suggested.
This difficulty was solved when these
tules of procedure were condensed,
mimeographed in German and Eng-
lish, and distributed to all members
of each club.

A conference of representatives of
all American-German social dis-
cussion clubs was held in Heidelberg
the latter part of September 1947.
During the conference it was fre-
quently emphasized by both Ameri-
can and German speakers that the
individual clubs should strive to
strengthen democratic processes in
Germany, Captain C.S. Wright, Jr., of
the Munich Club, was elected per-
manent president of the conference.

In a message to the delegates,
General Clay stated he was sure
these clubs would “contribute to a
better understanding which could not
be other than helpful to the growth
of democracy.”

Since the organization of the first
club, more than a year ago, a new
one has been organized almost every
month, It is expected that this pro-
gress will continue. A zonal club
federation is planned for the near
future.

US Soldiers Praised

Most of the American soldiers “are
admirable ambassadors of democracy
and humanitarianism,” said Judge
Louis E. Levinthal on relinquishing
his duties as adviser on Jewish affairs
to the Commander-in-Chief, European
Command. He returned to Philadelphia
to resume his position as judge of the
Court of Common Pleas.

“Although there are still grim days
ahead and many obstacles to be
overcome,” Judge Levinthal said in
his farewell statement, “the Jewish
displaced persons have faith in the
integrity of the civilized world, and
feel more optimistic than ever that
their just aspirations for the right to
live normal lives in a homeland of
their own will soon be realized.”

He was succeeded as adviser of
Jewish affairs by Dr. William Haber,
now on leave from the University of
Michigan where he is a professor of
economics.

16

(Continued from Page 5)
Directive AG 383.3

causes of charity, welfare work, Ger.
man Youth Activities and educationa}
and governmental assistance. The
violations of economic regulations by
individuals is believed due to their
failure to recognize that they are
jeopardizing the success of our occup-
ation mission.

3. The pertinent regulations and ex.
planations thereof have been set forth
in publications from this headquarters,
The general policy on this subject is
contained in Circular 140, Hq USFET,
1946, and interpretations of this policy
have been provided by the various
Military Government courts and mili-
tary tribunals. Subsequent publication
of these interpretations and the conse-
quences of violations of the regula-
tions have been presented in the
newspapers. Such violations are not
unique.

4. 1t is desired that effective action
be taken by each commander toward
curtailing and eliminating participation
in Black Market activities by all mem-
bers of this command, utilizing all
available means. The policies pres-
cribed by this headquarters and
further implemented by subordinate
commands will be widely publicized
and brought to the attention of each
individual concemed, The Military
Police and CID agencies have been
directed to take adequate measure on
this matter.

It is expected that positive action
will be taken against any members
of the occupation forces who are con-
victed of participation in Black Mar-
ket activities in addition to court
action. Military personnel may be
returned to the Zone of the Interior,
civilians employed by the Department
of the Army may suffer immediate
termination of contract and be ordered
out of the US Occupied Zone, and":
dependents of the foregoing, if com,
victed, may be ordered out of the
zone regardless of the status of the
sponsor,

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

--- Page 20 ---
Political Youth in Berlin

EN GERMANY capitulated in

the spring of 1945, the only
youth organization that had been
permitted in Germany in many years
was destroyed. A German youngster
of 20 remembers today only Hitler
and the occupation.

The chaos induced by the years
of preparation for that war, the six
years of war, and the years of break-
down, both moral and economic,
which followed, has had a devas-
tating effect upon the young men
and women of Germany.

These large masses of young
people, indoctrinated only with child-
hood concepts and teachings of a
vanquished ideology, are for the most
part disillusioned and without poli-
tical conviction. They have seen only
failure. They are used to having
leadership and they are used to
following. They are without hope.
They are ripe for any political ideol-
ogy which promises them a chance
to stand on their own two feet, to
restore their self-respect through
work, and to promise them a future
with some degree of security and
comfort.

The Soviet occupation forces had
anticipated the condition prevailing
in Germany. Thus with the victorious
forces entering Berlin came Moscow-
trained and indoctrinated youth
leaders whose job it was and is to
establish and direct youth organiza-
tions politically oriented, militant,
dynamic and active.

To influence the youth within their
zone of occupation, they established the
so-called Freie Deutsche Jugend (free
German youth). They were provided
with propaganda materials, extra food,
Particular privileges for those who
assumed positions of responsibility in
the organization, and with political
orientation designed to exclude any
°pposing youth groups or competitive
organizations,

To combat this condition, the So-
cialdemocratic Party established Die
Falken (the Falcons), an organization
of the SPD youth which was subse-
quently banned in the Eastern Zone
When that party was banned. Unlike

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

By William F. Heimlich

the FDJ, Die Falken is truly a youth
organization inasmuch as its leaders
are young Germans without particular
training and with only vague Marxist
ideology and lacking the stern dis-
cipline which characterizes the FDJ.

In the Allied Kommandatura, appli-
cations were received to recognize
the FDJ and Die Falken, causing
lengthy debate in committee and by
the Commandants, The American po-
sition was that both youth organi-
zations should be identified with their
party: namely, the FDJ should be
known as the Communist Party Youth
Organization and Die Falken as the
Socialist Party Youth Organization.
It was also insisted that the door be
left open for the admission of other
youth organizations.

“Political Youth in Berlin” was
adapted by Mr, Heimlich from
a speech which he delivered
before the American Women's
Youth Group of the Berlin Wo-
man’s Club. Mr. Heimlich, who
was on the original planning staff
for the occupation of the US
Sector of Berlin, was chief of
intelligence for OMG Berlin
Sector for a year and a half
before civilianizing as deputy
chief of the Civilian Administra-
tion Branch, OMGBS, in Septem-
ber 1946. He is now acting chief
of the branch.

This proposal was opposed by the
Soviet representatives apparently
with the idea that by disguising the
true political nature of the youth
organizations, greater numbers of
youth could be induced to join the
FDJ. It was only after extensive
effort that a recognition of only one
youth organization and exclusion of
all others was avoided.

It is common practice for totali-
tarian states to insist upon single
youth, labor, and cultural organiza-
tions, vertical structure with control

17

exercised at the top by a very small
tightly-knit, highly-disciplined group.
The British and American Comman-
dants insisted that this was not in
conformity with their ideas of demo-
cratic procedure and insisted also
upon clear-cut expressions and iden-
tifications as to party affiliation, youth
program, freedom of speech within
the organization, secret balloting for
officials, and all of the other safe-
guards which appear necessary to us
to preserve individual liberties,

These points were won in the Kom-
mandatura, and, in addition to the
FDJ and Die Falken, two other youth
organizations were recognized: the
Demokratischer Jugendverband (Dem-
ocratic Youth Union) and the Bund
Deutsche Jugend (group of German
youth), each with rather vague poli-
tical ideologies and very loose ties
with the other two parties recognized
in Berlin.

The result has been that in Berlin
youth are free to select any of the
four recognized organizations, and
there is no compulsion or pressure
to join any of them. In the meantime,
considerable progress is being made
in non-political orientation through
the GYA program in bringing to the
youth of Berlin an idea of what can
be in store for them in a democratic
Germany which in the future may
again take its place in the society
of nations. Practical applications of
the American democratic concept of
freedom of speech, rights of the in-
dividual, and private initiative are
carried out in lecture groups, craft
instructions, entertainment, discussion
of political questions, and whole-
some entertainment.

>

7,900 Properties Returned

Approximately 7,900 properties held
by US Occupation Forces have been
returned to the German economy
since the consolidation of small US
Army units and detachments into
barracks and similar housing facilities,
and since the elimination of small
army unit recreational buildings was
ordered last May.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Export-Import Business
Extended to Shippers

New regulations for 1948 per-
mitting German shipping, forwarding
and transportation firms to resume
normal functions in conducting ex-
port-import business in the combined
economic area were announced by
the Joint Export-Import Agency of
the Bipartite Control Office,

Prior to the war these forwarding
and transportation angencies at Bremen,
Hamburg, and the German river ports
played an important role in handling
movement of goods and _ traffic.
Following the war and until now,
Military Government regulations pro-
hibited German firms from making
agreements with foreign firms to
engage in shipping, forwarding and
transportation operations,

In order to maximize recovery of
foreign exchange for the bizonal
export-import account, emphasis will
be put on reestablishing German
firms in the movement of German
and international commerce,

The new JEIA regulations applied
to persons and firms engaged in
handling traffic and freight by land,
sea or inland waterways as agents
for foreign business firms,

Available in three zones, Berlin
| New Permanent Stamps on Sale

A new five-mark postage stamp in
permanent design—the first of that
denomination to be printed in Ger-
many since the beginning of the
occupation—went on sale in all Ger-
man post offices in the American,

British and Soviet Zones, and Berlin
on Feb.1, Four other denominations
available for the first time in the
permanent designs were the 10, 15,
30, and 50 pfennig stamps,

Beginning Feb. 1 al! 20 denomi-
nations of stamps being issued in
Germany, excluding the French Zone,
were available in the five permanent
designs selected in a competition of
German artists by a quadripartite
panel of judges and approved by
the Coordinating Committees Sept.15,
1946.

German employes of the Hanau Signal Depot, at Hanau, salvage wood

at Post under Army permission

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Signal Corps)

18

Four of the new German stamps of permanent design

No more stamps of the prey:
temporary designs are to be
duced, but they are to remain
sale until the supply is exha
the Communications Branch, IA
Division, OMGUS, said.

(PIO, OMGUs

Deemed non-essential since
reduction of international poste
rates for Germans by quadripartit
action of Sept. 15, 1947 from t
to double the pre-occupational rat
the 45 and 75 pfennig denominatior
are being discontinued, and are no
to be available after the prese
supply is gone.

All permanent stamps for the G
man postal system, including special
issues, are produced by the Stal
Printing Office in Berlin, util
materials allocated from the zon
concerned, 4

The French, at present using 1
porary stamps of a different des
in their zone, are agreed in prin
to the production and issuance
uniform, permanent stamps for all
Germany, but prohibit distribution
the French Zone of the stamps Cul
rently used in the other zones
Berlin, pending settlement of poli
questions involving the establis
of central German agencies,

1,118,817 Feted by GYA

Children entertained at
assisted Christmas parties for
man and displaced persons’ ch
throughout the US Zone of Ge
totalled 1,118,817, the GYA Sec!
of EUCOM Headquarters annount

FEBRUARY 10, 18

--- Page 22 ---
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN OCCUPATION

The following abbreviations include
those in common usage among occu-
pational forces in Germany, but most
technical and communications sym-
bols for intra-office usage are omitted.
This list is compiled from Annex "B"”
to OMGUS Staff Memorandum No. 39
of 1947, from the file kept by the
Historical Section of the Reports
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS, from
the file of the Adjutant General's
Office, OMGUS, and from reports by
various divisions and offices of Mili-
tary Government.

AACS Airways and Air Communication Ser-
vice
AAFBU Army Air Force Base Unit

ABA A.B. Aero Transport (Swedish airlines)
ABC American Broadcast Company

AC Air Corps

ACA Allied Control Authority

ACC Allied Control Council

ACCR American Christian Committee for
Refugees

ACOS Assistant Chief of Staff

ACR Allied Commission on Reparations

ADMG Assistant to the Deputy Military Gov-
ernor

ADN Allgemeine Deutsche Nachrichten-
dienst (Soviet-licensed German

news agency)

AEC Army Education Center

AEF Allied Expeditionary Force (old)
Aeroflot Soviet Air Lines

AES Army Exchange Service (now EES)

AF Armed Forces

AFD Armed Forces Division

AFL American Federation of Labor

AFN Armed Forces Network

AFP Agence France Presse (French news
service)

AFSC American Friends Service Committee

AG Adjutant General

AGRC American Graves Registration
Command

AGWAR Se General War Department
(old)

AJ Administration of Justice

AIDC American Joint Distribution Com-
mittee

AK Allied Kommandatura

ALP Allied Liaison and Protocol (OMGUS)

AMAG American Mission for Aid to Greece
AMDAG American Decartelization Agency
(Laender)

AMEXCO American Express Company
AMGOT Allied Military Government in Oc-
cupied Territories (old)

AIN Allied/Neutral
ANC = Army-Navy-Commerce
AOA American Overseas Airlines

AP Associated Press
APO = Army Post Office
APS Army Pictorial Service

APSO Allied Petroleum Service Organt-
zation

APWR American Polish War Relief

AR Army Regulation

ARAB American Riding Association of Berlin

ARC American Red Cross

Allied Secretariat (ACA)

ATC Air Transport Command (now EATS)
AT & T American Telephone & Telegraph

Avc American Veterans Committee
AWOL Absent Without Leave
BAS Air Weather Service
BARS Billeting & Accommodations Advisory
V British Armed Forces Special Vouchers
bam (British scrip)
Berlin am Mittag (Soviet-licensed

newspaper in Berlin)
FEBRUARY 10, 1988

BAOR British Army of the Rhine

BASC Berlin Air Safety Center

BBC British Broadcasting Company

BBC Central Clearing House, Brussels
BBP Buerger- and Bauernpartei (Citizen's

and Farmer's Party, in Hesse)

BBRC Bipartite and Bizonal Reorganization
Committee

BC Berlin Command

BCAP Bipartite Civil Aviation Panel Berlin

BD District

BDM Bund Deutscher Maedchen (German
Girl's League, a Nazi group)

BDC Berlin Document Center

BE British Element
BEA British European Airways Corp. (Brit-
. ish airline)
BEC Bizonal Economic Council (Depart-
ment of Ruhr coal administration)
Bipartite Economics Control Group
(now Bipartite Commerce and In-
dustry Group)
BERCOMB Berlin Commission British
BEWAG Berliner Licht und Kraft (BEWAG)
A. G. (Berlin electric and transpor-
tation systems)
BEN British Forces Network

BECG

BI Bipartite
BIB Bipartite Board (in Berlin)
BICO _Bipartite Control Office (in Frankfurt)

BICO/SEC Joint Secretariat for Bipartite Con-
trol Office (in Frankfurt)

BISEC _Bipartite Secretariat (in Berlin)

BMA____British Military Authority

BOAC British Overseas Airways Corp.

BOQ Bachelor Officers Quarters

BPE Bremen Port of Embarkation

BR Branch

BRIDAG British Decartelization Agency (Laen-
der)

BS Berlin Sector

BSAA British South American Airways

BSC Bizonal Supply Committee (This

agency, located in Washington,
does governmental level purchasing
for the Bizonal Area)

BSS British Standard Specifications

BUP British United Press

BZPCA British Zone Petroleum Coordinating
Authority

CA Civil Administration

CAA Civil Aeronautics Administration

CAB Civil Aeronautics Board

CAC _Civil Administration Committee (ACA)

CAC Civil Affairs Committee

CAD Civil Affairs Division (Department of
the Army)

CAD Civil Administration Division (MG)

CADM_ Central German Administrative De-
partment (Economic) Committee

CAF Clerical, Administrative & Fiscal
(employment rating)

CAFT Combined Agencies Field Team

CALA Combined Administrative Liquidating
Agency

CALA Civil Affairs Liquidating Agency

CAM Civil Aeronautics Manual

CA/MG Civil Affairs/Military Government

CBS Columbia Broadcasting System

C&M Coal & Mining

CAR Civil Air Regulations

CARE Cooperation for American Remittances
to Europe

CAT Civil Affairs Training

CBS Columbia Broadcasting System

CCAC Combined Civil Affairs Committea

CCC Commodity Credit Corporation

ccD Civil Censorship Division

CCG (BE) Control Council for Germany (British
Element)

ccr International Chamber of Commerce

CCMS~ Control Commission Military Section

CCALA Combined Civil Affairs Liquidating

‘Agency
ccs Catholic Welfare Committee
ccs Combined Chiefs of Staff
ccs Civilian Censorship Service
CCSB Control Commission Shipping Bureau
CDMG Combined Deputy Military Governors

19

CDP Christlich-Demokratische Partei(Christ-
ian Democratic Party) (French Zone,
same as CDU)

Combined Diplaced Persons Executive

Christlich-Demokratische Union(Christ-
ian Democratic Union)

CEC Coal Experts Committee

CDPX
cDU

CEEC Committee for European Economic
Cooperation (Group representing
16 European nations cooperating in
the Marshall Plan)

CEM Captured Enemy Material

CFM Council of Foreign Ministers

CFUL Fuel Committee (ACA)

cGC Confederation General Cadre (French
union of white collar workers)

CGT Confederation General Travail (feder-
ation comprising about 80 percent
of French workers)

cIB Counter Intelligence Branch

cic Counter Intelligence Corps

cID Criminal Investigation Division

CIM International Freight Tariffs
CINCEUR Commander-in-Chief, European Com-

mand
clo Congress of Industrial Organizations
cIT International Transport Committee
civ International Passenger and Baggage
Tariffs
Civ Civilian
CLDO Central Load Dispatching Office
CLWP Committee for Liquidation of German

War Potential
co Control Office
COIG I. G, Farben Committee
COMNAVEU Commander Naval Forces Europe
COMNAVFORGER Commander US Naval Forces
Germany
CONL Control Council (ACA)
COPROD Coal Production Committee

CORC Coordinating Committee (ACA)

cos Chief of Staff

cPCc Civilian Personnel Circular

cPc Price Control Committee

cPC Custodial, Protective and Crafts
CPP Civilian Personnel Pamphlet

CPPL Civilian Personnel and Payroll Letter
CPPM Civilian Personnel Procedures Manual

CPR Civilian Personnel Regulation

cPV Committee on Procedure and Valua-
tion of Reparations (also CPVR)
(ACA)

CRAB Combined Resources Allocation Board

CRALOG Cooperative of Relief Agency License-
es for Operation in Germany

crc Central Rhine Commission

CRD Committee on Reciprocal Deliveries

CRICO Committee for the Revision of the
Criminal Code

CRO Central Records Office

CROWCASS Central Registry of War Criminals
and Security Suspects

CRS Restitution Procedures Committee

CRWP Census Registration Working Party
(ACA)

CRX Combined Repatriation Executive

cs Chief of Staff

CSA eee Aeroline (Czech air-
ine)

csc Censorship Subcommittee (ACA)

csc Civil Service Commission

csc Communications Subcommittee (ACA)

csD Czechoslovak national railroads

CSR Civil Service Rule

CS Reg Civil Service Regulations

csu Christlich-Soziale Union (Christian
Social Union — Bavaria'’s name
for CDU)

csv Christlich-Soziale Volkspartei Christ-
ian Social People’s Party — one
name for CDU in French Zone)

CsWI Commission for Synoptic Weather
Information (IMO)

CT&C Trade and Commerce Committee
(ACA)

CTA Control Area

CTB “Central Tracing Bureau (fornerly
under UNRRA)

Combined Travel Board (in MG)

Central Tracing Policy Board

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
CTR Control Zone

CTSB Combined Travel Security Board

CUP Polish state railroads

CWCS Combined Wheat Control Secretariat

DAF Department of the Air Forces

DAF Deutsche Arbeitsfront (German Work-
ers Front, a Nazi term)

DAIR Air Directorate (ACA)
(now DOCS/AIR)

DANA Deutsche Allgemeine Nachrichten-
Agentur (old name for licensed
German news service in US Zone,
now DENA)

DAS Director of Administrative Services

DDL Det Danske Luftfahrtselskab (Danish
airlines)

DECO Economics Directorate (ACA)

DEF Disarmed Enemy Forces

DENA Deutsche Nachrichten-Agentur (US-
licensed German news service)

DER Deutsches Reisebuero (German Travel
‘Agency, formerly MER)

DFIN Finance Directorate (ACA)

DGEPC German External Property Commis-
sion (ACA)

DGMR Director General Military Railways

DHI Deutsches Hydrographisches Institut

(German hydrographic institute)
DiI Director of Intelligence (G-2)
DIAC Directorate of Internal Affairs and
Communications (ACA)
Dir Director

DISCC District Information Services Control
Command (term for early occupa-
tion field services under ICD)

DKBL Deutsche Koblen - Bergbau - Leitung

(German coal mining management,
- Bizonal organization at Essen)

DKP Deutsche Konservative Partei (Ger-
man Conservatives Party, only in
British Zone)

Div Division

DLEG _ Legal Directorate (ACA)

DMAN Manpower Directorate (ACA)

DMG __ Deputy Military Governor

DMIL Military Directorate (ACA) (now
DOCS/MIL)

DMJ Deutsches Meteorologisches Jahrbuch
(German Meteorological Annual)

DNAV_ Naval Directorate (ACA)
(now DOCS/NAV)

DNL Det Norske Luftsahrtselskab (Nor-
‘wegian airlines)

DOCS Combined Services Directorate

(ACA)

DOCSECO Combined Services Directorate and
Economic Directorate (when func-
tioning jointly)

DP Displaced Person

DPD Deutscher Presse-Dienst(British-licens-
ed German news service)

DPIC Deputy Paymaster in Chief

DPOL Political Directorate (ACA)

DPOW Directorate of Prisoners of War and

Displaced Persons (ACA)
DR Deutsche Reichsbahn (German rail-
road system)

DRACO Legislative Drafting Committee (ACA)

DRDR Reparations, Deliveries an Restitution
Directorate (ACA)

ea) Danube River Field Organization

DTPT __ Transport Directorate (ACA)
DUSTBIN Branch of FIAT for exploitation of
scientists and industrialists (old)

DVKB German Verkehrs Kredit, Bank (Com-
mercial Railroad Bank)

DVP Deutsche Volksbank (German People's
Party in Wuerttembergg-Baden,
associated with LDP)

EAC European Advisory Committee

EATS, European Air Transport Service

ECA Economic Control Agency

ECAD European Civil Affairs Division

ECC Employee's Compensation Commis-
sion

ECE Executive Commission of Economics

ECE Economic Committee for Europe

(United Nations organization. with
Headquarters in Geneva, Switzer-
land, and a liaison office for the
Bizonal Area)

ECIMOT European Central Inland Movements
of Transport .

ECITO European Central Transportation Or-
ganization
ECO ~ European Coat Organization

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ECON
ED
EECE

‘EES

ERA
ERP

ESA
ETO
ETO
ETOUSA
EUCOM
EVD
EvO
EWD

F&A
FACO

FDGB

FDP

FEA
FEC
FFI

FIAT
FIN
FO
FO/SD
FPM

FSA
GARIOA

GCT
GDW
GEDAG

GEDEC
GEPC

GER

GHI
GmbH

GME
GMSA
GMSO
GMT
GMZFO

GPA
GRCD
GRW
GSC
GSI
GYA
GZMO

HCE
HIAS

HJ
HVB

HVE
HVST

TA&C
TARA
IATA

Economics

Economics Division

Emergency Economic Committee for
Europe (former ‘‘Western Nation”
organization with a liaison office
for the bizonal area,
seded by the liaison office for ECE)

European Exchange Service (formerly
AES)

Education & Religious Affairs

European Reconstruction Program (the
Marshall Plan)

Engineer Service, Army

European Theater (old)

European Transport Organization (part
of ECE)

European Theater of Operations (old)

European Theater of Operations US
Amy (old)

European Command (highest US
Army level in Europe)

Evangelischer Volksdienst (Evangeli-
cal People’s Aid, political party in
Dillkreis, Hesse)

Railway Traffic Regulations

Economic Warfare Division
(wartime organization)

Food and Agriculture

Food & Agriculture Organization
(Washington and Rome) (also FAO)

Freier Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund
(free German Trade Union League,
active in Berlin and Soviet Zone,
but generally considered a confed-
eration rather than an association
of free trade unions)

Freie Demokratische Partei (Free
Democratic Party, Bavarian’s name
for LDP)

Foreign Economics Administration

Far Eastern Commission

French Forces of the Interior (French
wartime underground)

Field Information Agency Technical
(old)

Finance

Foreign Office

Foreign Office, State Department

Federal Personnel Manual

Finance Service, Army

Government and Relief in Occupied
Areas

Greenwich Civil Time

General Direction of Workshops

ee Decartelization Agency (Laen-

er

German Decartelization Commission

German External Property Commis-
sion (ACA)

German corporation which secures
release of CEM

German Hydrographic Institute (ACA)

Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter Haf-
tung (German term meaning: com-
pany with limited liability)

German Minimum Economy

German Minesweeping Administration

German Mine Supplies Organization

Greenwich: Mean Time

Military Government of the French
Zone of Occupation

General Purchasing Agency

German Rhine Coordinating Direct-
orate

General Railway Warrants

General Staff Corps

General Staff Intelligence (British)

German Youth Activities

German Zonal Meteorological Organi-
zation

Hard coal equivalent (also SKE)

Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society
(relief organization)

Hitler-Jugend (Hitler Youth, a Nazi
term)

German central inland waterways
organization

German central rail organization

German Highways and Highway
Transport Office (Bizonal)

Internal Affairs and ‘Communications
(division in OMGUS)

Inter-Allied Reparations Agency (lo-
cated in Brussels)

International Air Transport Associ-
ation

20

now super-

Hees Spanish airlines
Information Bulletin (MG magazine,

formerly

ICAC International Cotton Advisory Com.
mission

ICAO International Civil Air Organization

ICB Information Control Branch

ICD Information Control Division

IcIS Information Control Intelligence Sum.
mary (of ICD)

ICSB Intelligence Control Staff, Berlin
(British)

TECF Intefnatial Emergency Children’s
Fund

IEFC International Emergency Food Coun.
cil (located in Washington)

IGCR __Inter-Governmental Committee on
Refugees

ILO International Labor Organization

IMO International Meteorological Organi.
zation

IMT International Military Tribunal
(formerly at Nuremberg)

Ind Industry

Inf Infantry

INS International News Service

INTAVA International Aviation Association
INTC Intelligence Committee
IP Industrial Police

IPC Industrial Property Committee

IPO Indigenous Personnel Officer

IRC International Red Cross

IRO International Relief Organization

‘IRO International Refugee Organizations
(successor to UNRRA)

IRRC International Relief and Rescue Com.
mittee

ITO International Trade Organization

itu International Telecommunications
Union

IWT Inland Water Transport

ZFS Inter ‘Zonal Facilities (ACA)

JAFP Jewish Agency for Palestine (also
JAP)

JAGD Judge Advocate General's Division

JAN Joint Army-Navy

JAT Yugoslav air lines

JCRA Jewish Committee for Relief Abroad

JCS Joint Chiefs of Staff

JEIA Joint Export-Import Agency (located
in Hoechst)

JFEA Joint Foreign Exchange Agency
(located in Berlin)

JIC Joint Intelligence Committee

JUDE Committee on Juvenile Delinquency

KDF Kraft durch Freude (Strength through
Joy Movement, a Nazi organiza-
tion)

KIB Kohlen-Industrie-Beirat (German ad-
visory committee to DKBL)

KLM Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij
(Royal Dutch Air Lines)

KPD Kommunistische Partei Deutschlands
(Communist Party on Germany;
recognized in three western zones,
but known as SED in Soviet Zone
and Berlin)

LA Legal Advice

LARE Committee on the Reform of German
Law

LD Legal Division

LDP Liberal-Demokratische Partei (Liberal
Democratic Party)

LEG Legislation

LMP Light Metal Products

LoT Polish airlines

LVL German Land movements office

LWA German Land economics office

LWOP Leave Without Pay

LWV Landwirtschaftsversorgungsamt (Ger-

man Land Economic Supply Office)
Maszovlet Hungarian airlines

MAV Hungarian national railroads

MCC Ministerial Collecting Center

MCM Manual of Courts-Martial

MEA Mission for Economic Affairs

MER Mitteleuropaisches. Reisebuero (Mid-
dle European Travel Bureau, now
known as MER)

MET — Meteorological

MF&A Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives
(Restitution Branch of Econ. Div.
OMGUS)

MFAA Monuments, Fine Arts & Archives

MG Military Government

FEBRUARY: 10; 1948

--- Page 24 ---
MGB

M&HDA

Mil Govt
Mil Trib
MIRS

MIS
MMAA

M&O
MPB

MTO

NBC
NCWC.
NDP

NGCC
NGCDO
NGOC
NGTC
NKGB
NKVD
NLP

NOG
NSDAP

NYPOE
NYT
NYTH

OAB

OAF
OBL

occwc
OCEA
OCOT
OCQM
ODI
ODIC
ODPI

OFAR

OFLIC
OFSC
oIr

OKH
OKL

OKM
OKW

OMG
OMGB

OMGBS

Ministerstvo Gosudarstvennoi Bezo-
pasnosti (Soviet Ministry of State
Security, formerly NKGB)

Medical and Hospital Department,
US Army

Military Government

Military Tribunals (located at Nurem-

berg)
Military Intelligence Research Service
Military Intelligence Service
Mission Militaire pour les Affairs
Allemandes (French meaning Mili-
tary Mission for German Affairs)
Machinery and Optics
Military Personnel Branch (of OPO)
Mouvement Republicain Populaire
(French political party)
Mediterannean Theater of Operations
(old)

National Broadcasting Company

National Catholic Welfare Conference

National-Demokratische Partei (Na-
tional Democratic Party in Hesse,
associated with DVP)

North German Coal Control (now
US-UK. Control Group for Ruhr-
Aachen coal area)

North German Coal Distribution
Organization (now under US-UK
supervision)

North German Oil Control (British)

North Germany Timber Control
(British)

Soviet Peoples Commissariat of State
Security (now MGB)

Soviet Peoples Commissariat of In-
terior Affairs (now MVD)

Niedersaechsische Landespartei (Low-
er Saxony Land Party, only in
British Zone)

News of Germany (ICD thrice-weekly
news summary publication)

National Sozialistischhe Deutsche Ar-
beiter-Partei (National Sozialistic
German workers Party, more com-
monly known as the Nazi Party)

New York Port of Embarkation

New York Times

New York Herald Tribune

Overseas Affairs Branch (Department
of the Army)

Occupational Air Force

Oberbetriebsleitung (General operat-
ing office)

Office of Chief of Counsel for War
Crimes

OMGUS Civilian Employees Associa-
tion

Office Chief of Transportation

Office of Chief Quartermaster

Office of Director of Intelligence

Office of Director of Information
Control (now ICD)

Office of Director
formation

Office of Foreign Agricultural Rela-
tions (US Department of Agricul-
ture, Washington)

Office of Foreign Liquidation Com-
mission

Organization and Finance Subcom-
mittee

Office of International Trade (US
Department of Commerce, Wash-
ington)

Oberkommando Heer (German Army
High Command)

Oberkommando Luftwaffe (German
Air High Command)

Oberkommando Marine (German Navy
High Command)

Oberkommando Wehrmacht (German
Armed Forces High Command)

Office of Military Government

Office of Military Government
for Bavaria

Office of Military Government
of Berlin Sector

of Public In-

OMGG(US) Office of Military Government

OMGH
OMGLB

for Germany, United States
(now OMGUS)

Office of Military Government
for Hesse

Office of Military Government
for Land Bremen .

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

OMGUS

Office of Military Government
for Germany (US)

OMG(USZ) Office of Military Government,

US Zone (now in OMGUS)

OMGWB Office of Military Government for

‘Wuerttemberg-Baden

ONA Overseas News Agency

OPMG Office of the Provost Marshal
General

OPO Office of the Personnel Officer

ORMOA Office for Relation with Military &
Occupation Authorities

ORT Organization for Rehabilitation
through Training

OSA Office of the Secretary of the Army

OSG Office of the Secretary General

oss Office Strategic Services (wartime
organization)

O/SS Office of Staff Secretary

OSSA Ordnance Service and Supplies,
Army

owl Office of War Information (wartime
organization)

PAA Pan American Airway

PAWA Pan American World Airway

PCA Production Control Agency

PCIRO Preparatory Commission for Inter-
national Refugee Organization

Perm Rep Sec

Permanent Reparations Secretariat

PICAO Provisional International Civil
Aviation Organization (now ICAO)

PID Public Information Division (EUCOM
& Department of the Army)

PIO Public Information Office (OMGUS
and Land OMG's)

PO Personnel Officer

POE Port of Embarkation

POL Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants

POLAD Political Adviser

POMAS Procurement Office for Military Au-
tomotive Supplies

PR/ISC Public Relations/Information Services
Control (British)

PRS Public Relations Service (British)

psc Postal Subcommittee (ACA)

PT&T Post, Telephone & Telegraph

PUP Public Utilities Panel (EECE)

PW Prisoner of War

PWD Psychological Warfare Division (war-
time organization)

PWDP Prisoner of War and Diplaced Persons

PWIB Prisoner of War Information Bureau

PWX Prisoner of War Executive

PRRCB President's War Relief Control Board

QSA Quartermaster Service, Army

RA Regular Army

RADAR Radio Direction and Ranging

RAF Royal Air Forces

RAFTC Royal Air Forces Transport Command

RAMP Recovered Allied Military Personnel

RBD Reichsbahn-Direktion (Office of a
division of the German railroads)

RCAF Royal Canadian Air Force

RC Research Control

RD&R Reparations, Deliveries, and Restitu-
tions

Rest Restitution

RGCO Regional Government Coordinating
Office

RGI Reichsgroup for Industry

RIC International Coach and Luggage Van
Union

RIV International Wagon Union

RKB Prewar German national longdistance
trucking agency

RMI Reich Ministry of Interior

RR&D Reparations, Removal, and Demolition

RRFO Rhine River Field Organization

RRPA Ruhr Regional Planning Authority

R&S Reports and Statistics

RTO Rail Transportation Office

RIZ Rhine Transport Zentrale (German
operating group)

RVO Reichsversicherungsordnung (German
insurance laws)

RVP Rheinische Volkspartei (Rhine People’s
Party, only in British Zone)

RWP Radio Working Party

Sabena “Societe Anonyme Belge D'Exploita-
tion de la Navigation Aerienne
(Belgian airlines)

SA Supply Accounting

SACPD Secretary of the Army, Civilian Per-

sonnel Division

a1

SAP

SAS
SBI

sc
SCAEF

SCAP

SCBI
SCCG

SCCM
SCCO
SCFR
SCGE
SCIT
SCMO

SCMT
SCOL
SCRA
SCVT
scu
SED

SE&I
SG
SHAEF
SKE
SMA
SNB
SNCB
SNCF
SOP

SPAD
SPD

s&S
SSB
STEG

SVA
SVB
SVD
SVHA

SWNCC

TWX

Sozialistische Arbeiterpartei (Socialist
Worker's Party, only in Offenbach,
Hesse)

Scandinavian Air Services (combina-
tion of three Scandinavian services)

Soviet Bureau of Information

Signal Corps

Supreme Commander Allied Expedi-
tionary Forces (wartime title of
General Eisenhower)

Supreme Commander Allied Forces
Pacific (wartime title of General
MacArthur)

Building Industries Subcommittee
(ACA)

Textiles and Consumer Goods Sub-
committee (ACA)

Chemical Subcommittee (ACA)

Coal Subcommittee (ACA)

Forestry Subcommittee (ACA)

Gas and Electric Subcommittee (ACA)

Interzonal Trade Subcommittee (ACA)

Machinery and Optics Subcommittee
(ACA)

Metals Subcommittee (ACA)

Oil Subcommittee (ACA)

Rationing Subcommittee (ACA)

Veterinary Subcommittee (ACA)

Statistical Control Unit

Sozialistische Einheitspartel Deutsch-
lands (Socialist Unity Party of
Germany, only in Soviet Zone and
Berlin where it represents Soviet
manipulated merger of KPD and
small splinter of SPD)

Export & Import Subcommittee

Secretary General

Supreme Headquarters Allied Expe-
ditionary Forces (wartime)

Steinkohle equivalent (hard
equivalent)

Soviet Military Administration

Soviet News Bureau

Belgian national railroads

French national railroads

Standing Operating Procedure

Surplus Property Accounting Division

Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutsch-
lands (Social Democratic Party. of
Germany, prominent in all Ger-
many except officially banned in
Soviet Zone after Soviet-sponsored
formation of SED)

Stars & Stripes

Swiss federal railroads

Staatliche Gesellschaft zur Erfassung
von Ruestungsgut (German public
corporation for the collection and
distribution of war material)

German county highway transporta-
tion office

Sozialistischer Volksbund (Socialist
People's Party, only in French Zone)

German state highway transportation
office

German district highway transporta-
tion office

State, War, and Navy Coordinating
Committee

coal

Transports Aeriens Intercontienntaux
(French airlines)

Romanian airlines

Transportation Corps

Trade and Commerce

Temporary Committee Rhine Transport

Tripartite Engineering Committee

International. Combined Coupon Tarif

Troop Information and Education

Technical Industrial Intelligence
Committee

Tripartite Merchant Marine Com-
mission

Tripartite Naval Commission

Transportation Service, Army

Tariff Subcommittee (ACA)

Technical Staff/Fuel Committee (ACA}

Theater Service Forces, European
Theater (old)

Trade Union Congress (organization
of all British unions)

Trans-World Airline (American air-
line)

Teletype message

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
uIc Union of International Conventions

UNESCO United Nations Economic, Scientific
& Cultural Organization

UNRRA United Nations Relief & Rehabili-
tation Administration (replaced by
(PCIRO)

UNWCC United Nations War Crimes Com-

mission

UP United Press

URSI Union de Radiative-Solaire Institutes

us United States

USACA US Allied Commission Austria
USAFE US Air Forces Europe
USAFI United States Armed Forces Institute

‘USAFIE US Air Force in Europe

USC _ Unitarian Service Committee

USC _—_ United States Code

USCC United States Commercial Company
USCC United States Cotton Comission

USCCEC US Committee for Care of European
Children

USFA United States Forces Austria

USFET United States Forces, European Theater
(now Hq. EUCOM US Forces, Group
Control Council (Germany), (now
OMGUS)

USMA US Military Attache

USSBS US Strategic bombing survey (old)

US/UK United States/United Kingdom

USWB. US Weather Bureau

VAV Verwaltungsamt fuer Verkehr (exe-
cutive committee for transport)

VAW _ Verwaltungsamt fuer Wirtschaft (Ger-

man for ECE)
VIP Very Important Person

VKK German passenger and freight ac-
counting offices
VRW  Verwaltungsamt fuer Wirtschaft (Ad-

ministration ‘for Economy of ECE)
WAGGS World Association of Girl Guides

and Scouts

WAR ‘War Department (now Department of
the Army)

WAV | Wirtschaftlicher Aufbau Verein (Eco-
nomic Reconstruction Party, or ERP,
in Bavaria)

wc. AGWAR unclassified

WD War Department (same as WAR)

WETU World Federation of Trade Unions
(socialistically sponsored organi-
zation with headquarters in France)

WHO World Housing Organization

WIB Weekly Information Bulletin (now IB)

wo ‘War Office (British)

wo ‘Warrant Officer

WP Working Party

‘WSA War Shipping Administration
WSA German waterways area office
‘WSD German waterways administration
WSR World Students Relief

WYMCA World's YMCA
WYWCA World's YWCA
zi Zone of Interior
ZVL German central movements directorate

Dismantling Deadline Set

The completion date for the Hessian
dismantling program has been set for
March 31, according to Hesse’s minister
of economics. Current plans do not
call for the destruction of the build-
ings, but only the removal of design-
ated machinery.

Rhine Bridge Opened
The Skaggerak Bridge, spanning the
Rhine river from Duesseldorf to Ober-
kassel, was opened recently for pedes-
trians only. It is hoped to have the
bridge open for trolley and vehicular
traffic early in May.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

US Representatives in ACA

US representatives on the various
quadripartite bodies of the Allied
Control Authority are as follows:

CONTROL COUNCIL
General Lucius D. Clay.

COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Maj. General G, P, Hays.

Allied Secretariat

US Secretary, Lt. Col. H. A. Gerhardt.
Deputy US Secretary, Mr. E. E. Oulashin.
Assistant to US Secretary, Capt. H. S. Beukema.

Manpower Directorate

Mr. L. R, Werts.
Secretariat, Miss M. L, Slusher.
Labor supply committee, Mr. D. L. Snyder.
Social insurance committee, Mr. M. G. Murray.
Trade union and labor law committee,
Mr. J. K, Meskimen.
Wages and labor standards committee,
Mr. E. R, Beckner.
Housing committee, Mr. H. E, Schiller.

Legal Directorate
Mr. A. J. Rockwell, Col. J. M. Raymond,
Mr. S, Kramer.
Secretariat, Mr. E. G. Wiener.
Legislative drafting committee, Mr. S. Kramer,
Committee on reform of German law,
Mr. W. von Rosensteil.
Committee for the revision of the criminal law,
Mr. E. Schopler.
Industrial property committee,
Major V. L. Billings.
CROWCASS, Permanent Commission,
Mr. B. A. Smith,

Political Directorate

Mr. Watren Chase.
Secretariat, Mr. R. M. Berry.
Information committee, Col. G. E. Textor.

Directorate of Prisoners of War and
Displaced Persons

Lt. Col. H. S. Messec.

Secretariat, Mr. E. L. Glazier.

Central tracing policy board,
Lt. Col. J. P. Abbott.

Combined repatriation executive,
Major J. F. Asselta.

Transport Directorate

Col. H. W. Holmer.

Secretariat, Major R. M. Milan.

Railways committee, Mr. E. V. Breitenbach.
Tariff subcommittee, Mr. B. F. Dickson.
Mechanics subcommittee, Mr. B. F. Dickson.

Highways committee, Mr. C. E, Calvert.

Coastal shipping and ports committee,

Mr, J. C. Meadows (Mr. E, E, Krauss).

Inland waterways committee,

Mr. J. C. Meadows (Mr. E, B, Krauss).

Movements working party committee,

Mr. J. C, Cook, Jr.

Reparations, Deliveries and Restitu-
tion Directorate
Col, J. H. Allen (Restitution),

Mr. O. R. McJunkins (Reparations).
Secretariat, Mrs. D, DeKeyserlingk.
Restitution procedures committee,

Mr. F. G, Hulse.

Reparations, procedure and valuations com-
mittee, Mr. D. D. Lee.

22

Reciprocal deliveries committee, Mr. D. D. Lee,
Permanent reparations secretariat, °
Miss C. Cole.

Finance Directorate

Mr, T. H. Ball.
Secretariat, Miss G. A. L. Beck.
Banking committee, Mr. R. P. Aikin.
Committee for balancing of foreign accounts,
Mr. H. C. Conrad. .
Taxation committee, Mr. M. A. Monk.
Price policy committee, Mr. M. Gottlieb,
Insurance committee, Mr. W. B. Newbold.
Committee for financing reparations costs,
Mr. H. C. Conrad. .
Committee on financing occupations costs,
Mr. M. Gottlieb.
Public finance committee, Mr. R. P. March.
Property control committee, Mr. E. N. Reinsel,
Currency printing committee, Mr. K. V. Hagen,
Financial regulations committee,
Mr. E. Tenenbaum.

Economic Directorate

Mr. L. Wilkinson; Mr. D. Humphrey,
Mr. J. French.

Secretariat, Mr. R. A. Steele.

Decartelization working party,

Mr. C. R. Coleman.
Permanent reparations secretariat,
Mr. W. J. Bossemeyer.
Industry committee, Mr, H. L. Berno.
Chemical subcommittee, Mr. T. A. Rude.
Building industries subcommittee,
Mr. R. L, Henry.

Machinery and optics subcommittee,
Mr. R. E. Felix.

Metals subcommittee, Mr. J. M. Kelley.

Textiles and consumer goods subcommittee,
Major Chaplin.

Fuel committee, Mr. M, H. Forester.

Gas: and electric subcommittee,

Mr. W. Kelly.

Oil subcommittee, (Vacant).

Coal’ subcommittee, Mr. M. H. Forester.

Technical staff, CFUL, Dr. R. G. Wayland.
Food and Agriculture committee,

Dr. C. H, Hammar.
Forestry subcommittee, Mr. J. Kircher.
Veterinary subcommittee,
Lt. Col. F. A. Todd.
Research and education subcommittee,
Dr. C. H. Hammar.

Committee for liquidation of German war
potential, Mr. O. R. McJunkins; Mr. F.G.
Draper.

Trade and Commerce committee, Mr. F. Phenix.

Export-Import subcommittee,

Mr. D. F. Martin.
Interzonal trade subcommittee,
Mr. D. F, Martin.

Rationing subcommittee, Mr. D, F. Martin.
Price Control committee, Mr. F. T. Ostrander.
I.G. Farben control committee (Frankfurt),

Mr. R. Bronson.

Central German

(economic) committee,

administrative departments
(Vacant),

Internal Affairs and Communications

Directorate

Mr. George B. McKibbin; Col. B. Lenznets
Dr. E. H. Litchfield.
Secretariat, Mr. J. Sexton.
Civil administration committee,
Mr. E. C. Wolfsperger.
Civil service working party,
Mr. E. C, Wolfsperger.
Census registration working party.
Mr. K. A. Shafer.
Intelligence committee, Col. Peter B. Rodes.
Counter-intelligence working party,
Mr. L, A, Campbell,
Censorship subcommittee,
Mr. L. A. Campbell.

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

--- Page 26 ---
ic safety committee, Mr. T. E. Hall.
Pu ati arrest and denazification sub-
committee, Mr. T. E. Hall.
Education Committee,
ane R. T. Alexander,

Working party on principles for teacher
training for higher institutions, Dr. F.
Karsen.

Working party on establishment of uniform
curricula and programs for elementary
and secondary schools in Germany,
Dr. M. English.

Allied Welfare committee, Mrs. M. B. Smith.
Allied Health committee, Col. H. T. Marshall.
Narcotics Working Party, Mr. C, Dyar.
Allied communications and posts committee,

Mr. E. H. Merrill,

Communications subcommittee,
Lt. Col. A. S. Hoke.

Lines working party, Mr. M. L. Knapke.

Radio working party, Mr. E. T. Martin.

Postal subcommittee, Mr. G. C, Scheppler.

Stamps working party, Mr. G. C. Scheppler.

Organization and finance subcommittee,
Mr. T. E. Nelson.

Accounting working party,

Mr. P. R. Gallagher.
Allied religious affairs committee,
Mr. C. A. Olsen.

German External Property Commission

Mr. E. J. Cassoday.
Secretariat, Miss L. Ragghianti.

Combined Services Directorate

Maj. Gen. W. E. Hall.

Secretariat, Mr. G. B. Robbins,

Naval committee, Capt. J. S. Crenshaw.

German hydrographic institute,
Capt. J. S. Crenshaw.

Air committee, Col, Glynne M. Jones.
Military committee, Col. T. B. Whitted.
Meteorological committee,

Mr. C. F. van Thullenar,

Berlin Kommandatura

Col. F. L. Howley; Mr. W. T. Babcock.
Chief of Staff, Col. P, C, Bullard.

Building and Housing, Mr. A. B. Fuller.
Cultural Affairs, Mr. M. Josselson,
Economics, Mr. D. H. Hair.

Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. J. R. Sala.

Electricity subcommittee,

Mr. E. C. Rohrbaugh.
Finance, Mr. J. F, Kilduff.
Food, Mr, L. J. Steck.

Fuel Supply, Mr. E. W. Kunkel.
Labor, Mr. G. N. McClusky.
Legal, Mr. W. F. Pate.

Legal subcommittee, Mr. F. A. Tappan, Jr.
Local Government, Mr. W. F. Heimlich.
Monuments and Fine Arts, Mr. C. Legge.
Personnel and Denazification, Mr. U. R. Gress.
Property Centrol, Mr. J. H. Nobles, Jr.
Public Health, Lt. Col. A. J. Rapalski.
Public Safety, Mr. R. Ashworth.

PT. T., Mr. C, R. Ballard.

Public Utilities, Mr. E. C. Rohrbaugh.
Transportation, Mr. C. A. Dix.

Welfare and Refugees, Mr. W. Froistad.

Chaplain Barnes Named

Pope Pius XII, has named Chaplain
(Capt.) Leslie V. Barnes, executive to
the EUCOM chief of chaplains, a do-
Mestic prelate with the title of right
Teverend monsignor. Monsignor Barnes
has spent 14 months in the European
Command and was with the 5th Army
for a year during the war.

FEBRUARY 10, 1948

(Continued from Page 10)

The Black Market

pose from other firms through com-
pensation trade. The names of workers
who benefit from distribution in the
plant are to be reported to the local
economic offices.

Out of fear of unfavorable reactions
from higher authorities neither the
Bavarian directive on compensation
trade nor the directive on distributions
to workers was published. However,
the local economic offices and Ba-
varian industrial or labor organiza-
tions were informed. The new pro-
cedure takes the onus of illegality
from certain compensation trans-
actions, but it produces neither a
close scrutiny nor an effective limita-
tion of compensation projects.

In Hesse, the directive on compen-
sation transaction issued by the
Minister of Economics on May 6 has
remained in force. This directive pro-
hibits compensation trade in principle
but empowers the Land Economic
Office to authorize exceptions. Al-
though the Spinnfaser trial, which
took place in Hesse, did not recognize
any legal foundation, the Land Govern-
ment has continued its administrative
practice of permitting certain com-
pensation transactions.

Experience in Hesse has shown that
the firms do not use their full com-
pensation quota continually, but carry-
over of the unused portion of a free
quota from month to month is not
permitted by the Land Economic

Office.
Applications for permits for in-
dividual compensation transactions

are filed with the Land Economic
Offices of Hesse at a rate of about
eight to 10 per day, and the majority
is approved. Rejected applications
number about two to three per week.
In individual compensation trans-
actions approved by the Land Eco-
nomic Office in September, several
transactions of a single firm are
bracketed together.

The compensation ratio shown
ranges up to 1:40, reflecting differ-
ences in supply and demand and
bargaining abilities. The Land Eco-
nomic Office has refused applications

23

which show too high a ratio of pro-
ducts sold to materials bought.

The Ministry of Economics and the
Land Economic Offices of Hesse con-
sider their system practical and ben-
eficial. They agree with industrialists
and official authorities on the un-
soundness of the principle of compen-
sation trade, but they acknowledge
the compelling necessity of its practice
and the desirability of regulations.

HEY DO not doubt that some firms

still are conducting compensation
trade without or beyond the limits of
the permit or despite rejection of their
application, but they hope to keep
violations in check. The officials stress
that their procedure has helped to
maintain the authority of the state
and to safeguard and increase essen-
tial production.

Some compensation deals shade off
into black market. Under present
circumstances this activity is not so
much a way of getting rich as a method
for business concerns to keep going
because compensation trading is the
only effective means of inducing
owners of tangible assets to exchange
them.

Beside compensation trade there is
direct bartering among urban con-
sumers and between urban consumers
and farmers. The total amount of
product involved is not large. With
the extreme shortage of all new con-
sumer goods, a well developed mech-
anism has grown for exchanging
used consumer goods in special barter
stores.

In some cities, notably in Stuttgart,
the establishment of barter stores has
been carried to a high level, with 20
or more stores organized into a syn-
dicate, permitting the barter certificate
received in exchange for used goods
at one store to be used for acquiring
goods at any one of the other stores.

18 Denominations Represented

Eighteen denominations are repre-
sented among the 155 US Army chap-
Jains now serving with the US Army
in the European Command, as of
Dec. 1, according to EUCOM Head-
quarters. By major faiths, the total
includes 91 Protestant chaplains, 52
Catholic chaplains, and 12 Jewish
chaplains.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 106, Absence Without
Leave, Hq EUCOM, 30 December 1947.
Gives provisions for the disposition
of absentees in the European Com-
mand.

Circular No. 107, Charges for
Bachelor Type Billets, Hq EUCOM,
31 December 1947. Governs rates for
category I, III and IV civilian per-
sonnel,

Establishment of Special Troop
Trains, AG 531 RYT (AG), 31 De-
cember 1947. Cites packet command-
ers’ responsibilities,

Weekly Directive No. 21, Hq
EUCOM, 31 December 1947, Includes
following: Sec 1-Winterization of %-
Ton Trucks, AG 451 GSP. Pre-
scribes method to permit emergency
exit from the left side of the vehicle.
Sec II-Reenlistment of Discharged
Members of the WAC, AG 340 AGP-
B. Rescinds EUCOM letter, AG 340
GAP-AGP, 22 June 1946. Sec II-Emer-
gency Return of Military Personnel
to the Zone of Interior, AG 210.711
AGP-B. Rescinds three USFET letters.
Sec IV-Army Folicy on Discussion of
Russia, AG 353 GOT. Sec V-Change
of Short Title Designation of Joint
Army-Navy-Air Force Publications,
AG 311.23 AGO. Cites change from
(JANP) to (JANAP). Sec VI-Entrance
of Technical Intelligence Investiga-
tors Into The Occupied Zones of Ger-
many and Austria, AG 350.09 GID.
Rescinds USFET letter, AG 353,
10 August 1946. Sec VII-Appointment
of Commissioned Officers in Medical
and Dental Corps, Regular Army,
AG 210.1 AGP-B. Cites instructions
for processing applicants for appoint-
ment. Sec VIII-Sale of Rifles, M-1903
and M-1903-A-I, AG 474 GSP. Lists
the provisions governing purchase
and the sales price. Sec IX-Mailing
of Duty Free Gifts to the United
States by Members of the US Armed
Forces, AG 311.16 AGM. States that
US Customs appraisers determine the
value of gifts regardless of price
stated by the sender. Sec X-Payment
of Enlisted Students at Constabulary
School, AG 242 GOT. Gives new
procedure for parent organizations
preparing pay vouchers. Sec XI-
Regulations Governing Individual
Travel to Switzerland, AG 200.4 GPA.

Gives substitution for EUCOM letter,
AG 200.4 GPA-AGP-B, 1 December
1947. Sec XII-Report of Materiai
Consumed (Reports Control Symbol
WDGSP-52). Cites outline for correc-
tive action in submitting reports.

Circular No. 1, Hq EUCOM, 1 Jan-
uary 1948. Section I-Post Exchange
Rations and Allowances; Section II-
Medical Care in the European Com-
mand and Section III-Foreign Service
Tours of Military Personnel.

EUCOM Reorganization Plan, AG
322 GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 Jan-
uary 1948, Outlines functions and re-
sponsibilities effective 20 January
1948,

European Command Equipment
Modification Lists and Tables of
Allowances, AG 400.34 GOT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 7 January 1948. Gives
jist for the information and guidance
of all concerned.

Control Council Law No. 61 —
Amendment to Control Council Law
No. 12, “Amendment of Income Tax,
Corporation Tax and Excess Profits
Tax Laws,” AG 010.6 (FD), OMGUS,
9 January 1948,

Implementation of Final Spruch-
kammer Decisions Confiscating Pro-
perty, AG 386 (ED), OMGUS, 12 Jan-
uary 1948. Refers to monthly report
(using Progress Report, “Confiscation
of Landed Property” MG/Food/75/F),
from the Minister President to be
received in OMGUS by 25 Febru-
ary 1948,

Second Implementing Regulations
to Economic Council Ordinance No. 5
“Ordinance to Insure The Potato
Supply for The Economic Year
1947/48, BICO/P(48)2, Bipartite Con
trol Office, 14 January 1948. Gives
the agreed English translation.

Circular No. 2, Hq EUCOM, 16 Jan-
uary 1948. Section I-Reporting of
Crimes, Offenses and Serious Inci-
dents; Section II-Nonappropriated

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters.

Funds; Section Il-Authority to Ap-
point a Junior of Several Officers of
Same Grade Within a Command as
Commander Thereof; Section Iv.
Chemical Corps Supplies and Sec.
tion V-Rescission.

Staff Memorandum No.3, Execu
tive Suspense System on Action
Papers, OMGUS, 16 January 1948,
Gives substitution for Staff Memo.
randum No.38, OMGUS, 17 Sep.
tember 1946.

Military Government - Germany.
Ordinance No. 23, “Relief from Un.
lawful Restraints of Personal Lib-
erty," AG 0106 (LD), OMGuUS,
16 January 1948. Gives the German
translation,

Circular No. 3, Reporting of De-
tained Personnel, Hq EUCOM, 18 Jan-
uary 1948,

Revision of Military Government
Public Safety Program and Change
16 to Title 9, MGR, “Public Saiety,”
AG 729.3 (IA), OMGUS, 19 January
1948, Cites Military Government
policy in the field of Public Safety
of returning to the Germans functional
responsibilities.

Error in German Translation of
Military Government Law No. 10,
“Adoptions by Nationals of the
United Nations, AG 010.6 (LD), OM-
GUS, 20 January 1948. Reference to
Land Bremen in Article IV was
inadvertently omitted and is to be
corrected by inserting “and Bremen”
after Wuerttemberg-Baden.”

Staff Memorandum No. 5, Estab-
lishment of Headquarters, Euro-
pean Command (REAR), OMGUS,
20 January 1948, Lists the divisions
composing this etablishment at
Heidelberg, Germany, APO 403.

Ordinance No. 14 “Ordinance to
Insure The Collection of Milk and
Dairy Produce in The Year 1948,
BICO/Memo (48) 7, Bipartite Control
Office, 21 January 1948. Notification
of approval.

Ordinance No. 13 “Implementing
Ordinance to Insure The Supply of
Operational Equipment For The Food
Industry, Agriculture and Forestry,”
BICO/Memo (48) 6, Bipartite Control
Office, 21 January 1948. Notifi-
cation of approval.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF