--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

nan

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 3 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Unnecessary Telephone Calls to 17th Major Port.

Holland Tour .

Sale of New Automobiles

Monthly Report on Marriage to Germans .

Motor Vehicle Registration Plates.

Military Government Ordinance No. 10

Redesignation and Activation of Certain Units in the European Theater
Dress Uniform Survey Team.

Transfer of Captured Enemy Material to Office of Military Government

for Germany (US) .

Control of Purchase of Clothing and Accessories

Uniform Regulations — Military Personnel
Government of the State of Bremen

Employee Training Program ,

Bizonal Implementation of Quadripartife Decisions

Applications of WD Employees to Remain in the Occupied Areas of

Germany and/or Austria .
Safety Bulletin

Ordinance No 11 Amending MG Ordinance No 7, Change to Title 23
Proper Use of German Channels of Authority .

Legislation in Land Bremen .

AG 311.3 SIG-AGO
24 Jan 1947, USFET
AG 210.711 SSP-AGO
29 Jan 1947, USFET
AG 451 GAP-AGO
29 Jan 1947, USFET
AG 291.1 GAP-AGP-B
30 Jan 1947, USFET
AG 451.02 GAP-AGO
30 Jan 1947, USFET
AG 010.8 GEC-AGO
4 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 322 GCT-AGO

5 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 421 RMJ-AGO
6 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 386.3 GDS-AGO
7 Feb 1947, USFET

Circular No. 7
8 Feb 1947, USFET

Circular No. 10

10 Feb 1947, USFET

AG 010.1 (CA)

11 Feb 1947, OMGUS
AG 230.437 (PO)

13 Feb 1947, OMGUS
AG 010.1

13 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 014.33 (AG)

13 Feb 1947, OMGUS
AG 729 PMG-AGO
14 Feb 1947, USFET
AG 0106 (LD)

17 Feb 1947, OMGUS
AG 014.12 (ED)

19 Feb 1947, OMGUS
AG 322

20 Feb 1947, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 4 ---
Signal Corps Photo

1G FARBEN BY AIR ~ The picture on this
week's cover is an aerial view of the |. G. Farben
plant at Hoechst, center of the vast German
cartel now under the control of the four
occupying powers. The story of the work of
US Military Government's  decartelization
agency appears on page 30 of this issue.

MG SERIES

The series on the current functions and
operations of Military Government in Germany
is concluded in this issue with a group of
articles explaining the activities of the Econom-
ics Division of OMGUS. Prepared by several
expert writers within the Division, these articles
deal with branches vital in the economic re-
growth of Germany: Trade and Commerce,
Food and Agriculture, Indusiry, Decartelization,

and Restitutions.
* * *

The Weekly Information Bulletin will welcome
manuscripts concerning some specific phase
of Military Government or occupation activi-
ties in Germany. These manuscripts may be
prepared and submitted by any American per-
sonnel but each must clearly show approval
and clearance by a responsible MG or military
official directly concerned with the described
phase. Photographs suitable for reproduction
in the WIB also will be welcomed.

The material should be sent to: Weekly
Information Bulletin, OMGUS, APO 742, US
Army. The manuscripts and photographs will
not be refurned unless they are accompanied
by a request to this effect and the correct
return address.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
MILITARY GOVERNMENT SERIES

Economics Division
Industry

Food and Agriculture
Trade and Commerce
Bavarian Export Show
Restitution
Decartelization

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
STATION LIST

--- Page 5 ---
ET

CONOMICS
———"DIVIS [Gas

he Economics Division, representing the

everyday needs of seventeen and a half
million Germans in the US Zone, seeks to
create a tolerable living standard for them
today from an economy of scarcity, and to
direct Germany’s future economy toward
peaceful pursuits.

The Division director has three main res-
ponsibilities in carrying out these objectives:
He sits as US delegate at the Four Power
Economics Directorate conferences negotia-
ting with French, British, and Soviet repre-
sentatives; he is the American member of the
Bipartite Economics Panel which, since 1
January 1947, has determined economic pol-
icies and procedures for the combined United
States and British Zones; and he acts as
economics advisor on the staff of the Deputy
Military Governor.

In cross section, each of the functional
branches of the Division is similarly res-
ponsible for quadripartite negotiation for all
of occupied Germany, negotiates where
appropriate with the British Zone on bi-
partite matters, and administers each in its
particular sphere for the US Zone.

The Industry Branch encompasses the
production and distribution of raw materials,
particularly steel, oil, textiles and consumer
goods, machinery and optics, coal, chemicals,
building materials and construction, public
utilities, and reparations.

Because of its importance in determining

the level and balance of the German economy
Reparations is the only section in the In-
dustry Branch which is represented on the
directorate level. The section is charged with
the responsibility for evaluating and actually
dismantling plants for reparations under
existing quadripartite directives. It also
makes studies of war potential with a view
to its final elimination.

The Food and Agriculture Branch of the
Division concerns itself with supervising the
distribution by the Germans of imported
foodstuffs in the US Zone and the expanding
of indigenous agriculture. It controls, along
with its British counterpart, the German
Executive Committee for Food and Agri-
culture, which determines ration levels, ad-
ministers land reform, controls deliveries by
farmers jof their food quotas, operates a
fishing fleet through a fisheries board, and
is responsible for transportation and storage
of foodstuffs. ;

Bracketed within the Trade and Commerce
Branch are three sections which are re-
sponsible for the development of the Zone’s
export program, interzonal trade, and price
control. The Branch initiated the well-known
export expositions in Wiesbaden, Stuttgart,
and Munich, and finalized all export con-
tracts. At the present time its chief pre-
occupation is with implementation of the US
Zone’s 100,000,000 dollar export program
for 1947, which. will depend in large

--- Page 6 ---
measure on the extent to which raw materials
including coal are made available to the
industries producing for export sale.

The Decartelization Branch carries out US
policy with respect to freedom of competitive
trade; elimination of monopolies and inter-
locking directorates established to control
trade, prices, and distribution; and general
work toward deconcentration of economic
power. Its initial task was the breaking up
of the famous I. G. Farben cartel and its
administration on a four-power basis.

One of the most colorful of the major
activities of the Economics Division is the
work of the Restitutions Branch, which
restores to rightful owners non-cultural ob-
jects, and art work and cultural collections
which had been looted from surrounding
countries by Nazi Germany. Since its in-
ception, the Restitutions Branch has return-

ed more than a million objects to their
owners, and its work constitutes one of the
best-known and most widely-appreciated
achievements of Military Government.
There are still other tasks handled by the
Economics Division: The Research Control
Branch, recognizing that modern wars can
start in a test tube, has formulated laws and
directions regulating scientific research
which might have a war potential. The
Supply and Accounting Branch has the dif-

‘ficult task of keeping records of supplies

coming in from abroad, of their distribution,
‘and of the attendant budget. The Require-
ments and Allocations Branch determines
Army requirements and sees to it that they
are met, either from indigenous resources or
by import, and at the same time keeps a
balanced record of Army deliveries to the
German economy.

Workers at the Opel automobile factory complete a phase of body assembly af the
company’s Russelsheim plant. The supervision of this and other US Zone industrial
concerns is a responsibility of the Industry Branch of the Economics Division, OMGUS.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 7 ---
NDUSTRY

he war-shattered industrial facilities of

the US Zone have been brought back to
44 percent of their 1936 average production
capacity under the guidance of the Industry
Branch of the Economics Division, OMGUS,
along the lines of prohibiting the possible
revival of any war industries and encour-
aging the reconstruction of those industries
essential for peaceful civilian needs.

Germany’s industrial strength had been
well known throughout the world but the
sword it sought to forge for the Third Reich’s

endeavor for world aggression became the
same token by which it was crushed. War
brought wrecked factories, broken communi-
cation lines, worn-out machinery, and de-
moralized workers. Only the battered shells
of buildings, the rusting and idle machines,
and the empty benches remained after the
fighting had passed by.

Immediately after peace came, two tem-
porary organizations — the SHAEF Produc-
tion Control Agency and the Industry Di-
vision of the US Group Control Council —

While half of the Kugelfischer ball bearing plant at Sweinfurt is being dismantled for reparations
to Russia, the other half continues manufacturing replacement parts for German machinery.

Photo by Byers

--- Page 8 ---
ts
pn a 8s Wa
r Th
tS

worked as a team to restore Order. e
was cleared; inventory of surviving plants
and equipment was taken; damaged build-
ings’ and machines. were repaired; more
adequate power, transport, water, and sewage
disposal facilities were developed; and, where-
ever possible, factories making essential
peacetime items, such as soap, shoes, medical
supplies, and clothing were put into opera-
tion.

Indusiry at this time was controlled by the
US Army. After clearance of debris and the
completion of necessary repairs, a plant could
resume production if fuel, power, raw mate-
rials, semi-fabricants, and labor were avail-
able; but authorization to operate had to be
obtained from Military Government. By
August, there was set up under USFET an
Industry Division, later to become the In-
dustry Branch of Economics Division, OMG-
US. It no longer was necessary to obtain
authorization from zonal headquarters to
reopen a plant if it produced purely civilian
goods.

By the end of the year, US Zone industry
and contributing facilities had made rapid

xn ce *
strides. The first paper, steel, glass, fertil-
izer, and soda ash plants were reactivated;
the Rhine waterway was reopened to traffic;
mail service was resumed; and eleciric power
supply improved to the point where all
essential requirements were met.

TWO STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT

The work of the Industry Branch and its
predecessors has had two stages of develop-
ment: Through 1945, it was an operating
agency concerned with bringing order to the
chaotic German zonal industries. Since that
time, it has become a supervisory and policy-
making body.

More and more the Germans are being
given responsibility for the operation of their
industrial economy. Military Government,
through the Industry Branch, issues rules
and regulations, works with representatives
of the other three occupying powers, per-
forms staff functions for the War and State
Departments, and generally oversees the
progress of economic recovery.

To do its over-all job, the Industry Branch
in Berlin has approximately 185 employees,

--- Page 9 ---
almost two-fifths of whom are German
clerks, technicians, and consultants.| The
chief of the Industry Branch is assisted by
two deputies; one for negotiations and one
for operations. The Branch’s technical, ad-
visory, and quadripartite-operations sections
number eight: Metals, Chemicals, Machinery
and Optics, Textiles and Consumer Goods,
Building Materials and Construction, Oil,
Coal and Mining, and Public Utilities. In
addition, there are three staff and field super-
vision sections: Program and Review; Con-
trol and Inspection; and Reparations Re-
movals and Demolition.

DIRECT CONTROL RETAINED

In contrast to the trend in the Industry
Branch as a whole, the Reparations Removals
and Demolition Section has not relinquished
direct control of field operations. Because
its work is tied up with the liquidation of
Germany’s industrial war potential and the
dismantling of plants for reparations, it has
kept a particularly close check on the Ger-
man agencies assisting it under MG instruc-
tions. Thus its evaluation, destruction, dis-
mantling, and reparations-shipment activities
are all under the direct control of Army
officers and American civilian personnel.

Aside from the deputies and the various
sections, the Industry Branch has a Secretar-
iat which devotes its full time to the
Branch’s four-power activities. All told, the
Industry Branch provides US representation
on 36 quadripartite groups: three committees,
eight subcommittees, and 25 working parties.

From Monday through Saturday, not a
day passes without one or more of these
quadripartite groups — whether it be the
Fuel Committee, the Coal Sub-Committee, or
the Working Party on Machine Tools —
meeting at the ACA building in Berlin. The
problems with which these four-power groups
must tussle range far and wide: One day it is
the expansion of building materials production;
another day, the selection of plants for rep-

Lead is being molded tor batteries at the Robert
Bosch factory in Stuttgart, manufacturers of auto-
mobile accessories. Photo by Byers

--- Page 10 ---
arations; a third, the supply of soap for
Berlin, On any day, it may be the adequacy
of electric power, the tonnage of the fishing
fleet, the conservation of coal by German
industry, shifts in population, or the repair
of German harbor facilities. Merely to keep
the record of what goes on at these meetings
— the minutes, the briefs, the agenda —
keeps two of the Secretariat’s dozen em-
ployees, busy, full time, before a battery of
files.

As with all other Secretariats in OMGUS,
the Industry Branch’s Secretariat has its bus-
iest time when it is “American month” at the
ACA, the one month of every four when US
representatives take over the chair of each
committee, sub-committee, and working par-
ty. Aside from long hours and hard work
during American month, the Industry Secre-
tariat measures the job before it during this
period by its requirements for office supplies:
40,000 staples, 3,000 paper clips and clamps,
400 long stencils, ten pounds of rubber
bands, and 1,000 metal fasteners.

Today, one of the most absorbing tasks of
the Branch is its work on the Reparations
Agreement, or Level-of-Industry Plan. Ag-
reed to by the four powers in March 1946,
the plan specifies which industries shall be
prohibited, which shall be restricted, and
which shall be permitted to expand within
the limits of available resources, ;

PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED

For month after month, following adop-
tion of the Potsdam Agreement in August
1945, Industry Branch and OMGUS officials,
together with representatives of the other
occupying powers, sweated over the task of
establishing Germany’s steel capacity, of
setting the allowable supply of copper and
aluminum, of deciding the production future
of synthetic gasoline, of figuring just what
should or should not be classified a “peace-
ful” industry.

Getting agreement on the Level-of-In-
dustry Plan was only one part of the job.

A woman worker sprays a coaf of paint on foy
automobiles at the Schuco factory in Nuremberg.
Photo by Byer

--- Page 11 ---
Since then, the hard work has continued in
the form of spelling out the plan: How
should Germany’s established steel capacity
be divided among the four zones? What
about dyestuffs, cement, locomotives? In
addition, the Branch has been faced with the
continuing task of controlling and inspecting
the industrial economy, of sceing that the
provisions of the Level-of-Industry Plan are
being carried out.

EXPANSION OF PRODUCTION

All this time and effort poured into the
job of priming Germany’s industrial pump
has paid off in a notable expansion of pro-
duction. In the US Zone, for example, in-
dustrial output has scored an unbroken
advance through November 1946 when it
equalled 44 percent of the 1936 average. In
December 1946 and January 1947, however,
extreme cold weather was chiefly respon-
sible for a sharp decline. Between Janu-
ary and November, production rose 85 per-
cent, with the bulk of this gain achieved in
the first six months of the year. Those six
months saw the first ship carrying direct
food imports from the United States for
German civilians; conclusion of the Zone’s
first export sales; four-power agreement on
the Reparations Plan; arrival of the first
American cotton in Germany for emergency
civilian requirements; and further improve-
ment in German transportation and com-
munication facilities.

Over the balance of the year, as produc-
tion expanded and earlier stockpiles were
exhausted, new problems arose to harass US
Zone manufacturers and bring sleepless
nights to Industry Branch officials: Increas-
ing supplies of fuel and other raw materials
were needed; breakdowns of old and worn-
out machinery became more frequent; labor,
especially skilled, was hard to find; and
transport was not always able to cope with
its task,

Workers at the Adam Opel automobile factorv in
Russelsheim put the finishing touches on auto bodies.
Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 12 ---
A worker at the Robert Bosch factory in Stuttgart checks
finished batteries for their ability to withstand pressure.

Despite the upswing of industrial activity
in the US Zone, much more production is
needed. Although the extreme wear and tear
resulting from war and defeat have ceased,
normal depreciation of all durable and non-
durable goods is far from being replaced,
even at the present rate of output, An out-
standing example of this is coal mining
machinery and equipment, which is still
limping along in a damaged and run-down
condition at the same time that the demand
for coal is incessant. In this sense, the in-
dustrial economy is still only in the initial
stages of recovery. Not until production at
least doubles its end-of-1946 rate can a rea-
sonable balance between new production
and depreciation be expected. Only then will
“living off capital” cease.

With economic unification of the British
and US Zones now in effect, Industry Branch
officials look for cumulative production div-

1

Photo by Byers

idends from the resultant larger and better
integrated economic area. For one thing,
the British Zone’s extensive coal and steel
facilities will be teamed up with the US
Zone’s sizable manufacturing capacity and
technical skills.

LOOK TO ECONOMIC UNIFICATION

The economic unification of the British
and US Zones represents a significant step
in raising the post-war standard of living in
Germany toward the level contemplated by
the four powers in the Reparations Agree-
ment of March 1946. Members of the In-
dustry Branch, as all of OMGUS, are now
looking forward to the possibility that eco-
nomic unification of all four zones as specifi-
ed at Potsdam and as reiterated in the bizonal
merger agreement will be accomplished. In
the meantime, the Industry Branch still has
a big job to do.

--- Page 13 ---
AGRICULTURE.

M: than one million metric tons of
food had been provided by the United
States to the German civilians of the US
Zone before the end of 1946 — an amount
sufficient to avert starvation. Although the
supplying of this food was a dramatic ex-
ample of the work of the Food and Agri-
culture Branch of the Economics Division, it
is only one of many tasks involved in
managing the food supply for the American
Zone. The success of the Branch in its battle

against hunger is contributing directly to
the desired reconstruction of Germany.
Plans were turned into action in 1945,
and by the end of the year, the food and
agricultural economy in the US Zone was on
the road to recovery. As the initial step in
meeting US commitments for supplying part
of the food requirements of Berlin, the first
trainload of American flour was moved
into that city in July. x Crops were harvest-
ed by women and children, and were de-

A community agricultural inspection committee at Wolfhagen reviews the records of a farm
in their district. These committees are instrumental in enforcing agricultural controls. Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 14 ---
livered to market with the assistance of
priorities on transportation facilities. Build-
ing materials, coal, electric power, repair
parts for machinery, and other operating
supplies were secured for individual grain
mills, dairies, and other food-processing
plants to meet the most essential require-
ments and to prevent waste of food produced
in 1945.

Fishing craft used by the German navy
during the war were reconverted and released
for fishing operations. German agencies were
reactivated and partially reorganized at
Land, Kreis, and Gemeinde levels to control
the production and distribution of food.
Planting of all suitable land not otherwise in
productive use was directed. Uniform ration
scales and consumer categories were estab-
lished for the US Zone. Production of
nitrogen fertilizer was started at the Trost-
berg plant in Bavaria. A comprehensive plan
for increasing production of high-calorie food
crops was approved.

During 1946, an important change in the
work of the Food and Agriculture Branch
took place. The emphasis now is on formu-
lation of policy and on supervision, while
the Germans have been given more responsi-

13

bility for the operation of their own food
and agricultural economy. Except for matters
requiring quadripartite or bipartite action,
German officials are authorized to take
nearly all action under established policies
without prior approval by Military Govern-
ment. The staff of the Food and Agriculture
Branch is no longer an emergency “fire-
fighting” organization; it has reverted to the
role of an advisory and planning body re-
sponsible for measuring and directing com-
pliance with MG objectives and instructions.

ORGANIZATION OF BRANCH

The organization of the Food and Agri-
culture Branch follows the lines of the broad
functional programs for which it is respon-
sible. The Chief of the Branch directs all

‘activities and is assisted by four Assistant

Branch Chiefs. The staff in Berlin — which
includes about 130 employees, almost 70 per-
cent of whom are Germans — is divided
among nine sections: Crop and Livestock
Production; Agricultural Supplies and Labor.
Commodities and Marketing; Rationing; Ber-
lin Feeding; Land; Institutions; Forestry and
Wild Life; and Reports, Statistics, and Im-
port Requirements. In addition, personnel

--- Page 15 ---
of the Branch serve on the Joint Fisheries
Control Board at Hamburg, which controls
the production, allocation, and processing of
fish secured by the German fishing fleets
operating from North Sea ports, in British
and US occupied territories.

The Branch also maintains a full-time
Secretariat which prepares and coordinates
papers and conducts quadripartite negotia-
tions connected with the work of the Food
and Agriculture Committee of the Allied
Control Authority. In December, 12 meetings
of the Food and Agriculture Committee and
its various sub-committees and working
parties were held. The staffing of a single
meeting requires from four to eight man-days
for negotiating and recording work alone.

The negotiation of decisions on food’ and
agriculture problems on a quadripartite
basis, at frequent and often lengthy meetings
of the Food and Agriculture Committee and
its subordinate organizations, forms an im-
portant part of the work of the Branch. Dur-
ing the last six months of 1946, approximate-
ly 50 papers were considered by the main
Committee covering such diverse subjects as
crop production plans; seasonal requirements
for seed, fertilizers, and insecticides; animal
diseases; pest control; land reform policies;
reestablishment and denazification of cooper-
atives; grain-milling standards; pasteuriza-
tion of milk; forest-cutting programs and
policy; and the size of the German fishing
fleet. All of them had the common char-
acteristic, however, of being measures to
increase the productivity of agriculture or
to establish democratic institutions, repre-
senting an effort to treat Germany as an
economic unit in the absence of a central
food and agriculture administrative agency.

Progress has been made toward reaching
the objectives of each of the functional pro-
grams of the Branch during the past year:
An agricultural production program provid-
ing for the largest total area of land ever
under cultivation in the US Zone and for
concentration on production of direct-con-

A Military Government officer in Wolfhagen reviews
a “Hofkarte” with the county agriculture administrator.
Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 16 ---
sumption crops has been developed. 4
complementary program for reduction of
livestock numbers has been initiated. Action
to increase supplies of commercial fertilizer,
seed, and other essential farm supplies has
been taken. Salt-water ‘fishing has been
expanded. An intensive drive to collect
maximum amounts of indigenous food for
non-selfsuppliers has been put into effect.
Food rations have been restored to a level
providing 1,550 calories per day for normal
consumers, following a reduciion to 1,180
calories per day last spring which was forced
by a critical shortage in world food supplies.
A law for acquisition of land for settlement
purposes and for land reform has been en-
acted which will increase the availability of
land for food production, A forest-cutting
program to meet requirements for military,
civilian, and export needs has been put into
effect and plans have been made for release
of forest lands suitable for conversion to
agricultural purposes, Agricultural cooper-
atives have been reestablished on a dem-
ocratic basis. A central warehousing and
accounting system for imported food has
been put into operation.

In spite of this progress, the struggle for
food for German civilians is still far from
won. Production of direct-consumption,
high-calorie food crops must be greatly in-
creased and livestock numbers correspond-
ingly decréased before the Potsdam goal of
maximizing agricultural production can be
reached, More fertilizer and other farm
supplies are needed for maximum produc-
tion. Farm-to-market deliveries are still
behind schedule. Ration scales based on
1,550 calories for the normal consumer are
below minimum standards.

Branch officials hope that the economic
merger of the British and US Zones will be
of considerable assistance in raising the Ger-
man standard of living. A final and more
satisfactory solution to the problem of Ger-
man food supply must await economic uni-
fication of all four zones.

German women sort the first potatoes produced in
@ Berlin park which was converted last year to agri-
cultural production. Photo by Byers

--- Page 17 ---
TRADE

and

COMMERCE

he Trade and Commerce Branch of the

Economics Division, now staffed by about
210 Americans and Germans, \is almost half
again as large as it was in July 1946, making
it the largest branch of the largest division
in OMGUS.

The growth of the Trade and Commerce
Branch is accounted for entirely by one sec-
tion — Export-Import — and reflects the
task with which the Branch has now come
to grips: Lifting the total of US Zone ex-
ports towards the level where enough food
and raw materials can be imported to lower
occupation costs and attain the standard of
living specified in the Four-Power Repara-
tions Agreement.

ORGANIZED EARLY IN 1945

The activitiy of the Trade and Commerce
Branch goes back to the early days of 1945
when it was organized in London as part of
the US Group Control Council, predecessor
of today’s OMGUS. Since that time it moved
to Hoechst and finally to Berlin as a branch
of the Economics Division. The Branch’s
problems have been many and enormous.

Consider the Price Control Section, whose
major problem is to see that the disastrous
German inflation after World War I does
not put on a repeat performance. Or take the
case of the Internal Trade Section, whose
major problem is to see that the machinery,

--- Page 18 ---
chemicals, textiles, pitprops, iron ore, and
bearings from the US Zone are exchanged
for the steel, coal, buna, petroleum, and other
commodities available from the remaining
three zones of Germany. Closely tied up with
this problem is that of assuring an equitable
distribution of consumer goods in the US
Zone, and of developing German administra-
tive responsibility.

The Trade and Commerce Branch is head-
ed by a chief assisted by two deputies. One
deputy is his alternate in all matters affect-
ing the Branch; the other is in direct charge
of the operations of the Branch’s three sec-
tions: Price Control, Internal Trade, and Ex-
port-Import. The chief of the Trade and
Commerce Branch is the US representative
on the Trade and Commerce Committee, a
top group in the quadripartite Economics
Directorate of the Allied Control Authority.

In addition to the Trade and Commerce

The US chairman of the Bipartite Economic Control
Group speaks at an inferzonal trade meeting in Minden.

Committee, the Branch has representation on
several other quadripartite groups: The Price
Control Committee, the Export-Import Sub-
committee, the Interzonal Trade Subcommit-
tee, the Working Party on Cost of Living,
the Working Party on Rationing, and several
temporary quadripartite working parties
such as those on coal, transportation, and co-
operative societies. The paper work for these
committees is handled by the Trade and
Commerce Secretariat, or staff. Each of the
quadripartite groups meets about three
times a month; and when the Secretariat’s
own sessions are thrown in, the total number
of quadripartite meetings involving the
Branch averages more than one a day.
During “American month,” when US rep-
resentatives act as chairmen of all quadri-
partite Trade and Commerce bodies at the
ACA Building, the staff has primary re-
sponsibility for the preparation of the draft

Photo by Byers

--- Page 19 ---
A German girl buys her day's
ration at a Wiesbaden grocery.

minutes and draft agenda for approval of
the British, French, and Soviet delegations.
In addition, the papers to be discussed by
the various Trade and Commerce committees,
subcommittees, and working parties are
initially prepared by the US Secretariat.

‘When the occupation began, the problem
in price control was of discouraging pro-
portions. Germany was a land of physical
ruin, financial bankruptcy, and mental
apathy. There was too much currency, too
little production, and all signs pointed to
runaway prices.

US price officials swiftly put into action
the basic policy determined even before the
end of the war — to give German agencies
fundamental responsibility for administering
price control unless Allied interests were
endangered or it became apparent that the
German effort was bogging down.

As early as July 1945, almost 300 price

18

Signal Corps Photo

offices had reopened in the US Zone; the
system of price control developed from a
rather loosely-knit localized organization to
a federal structure with a central price com-
missioner to whom important powers were
ceded in the interest of Zone-wide uniformity
of price-control work.

PRICE LEVEL MAINTAINED

Today, in line with policies laid down
by the occupying powers, considerable
uniformity of prices has been achieved
throughout all four zones. In fact, an out-
standing feature of price control over the
past year and a half has been the over-all
stability of price relationship. True, there is
a black market in which the purchasing
power of the Reichsmark is only between
one-tenth and one-hundredth — sometimes
even less — of its pre-war value. Also, in
some respects, the mark has lost value as

--- Page 20 ---
money in that it no longer is a strong in-
ducement to work or to produce. But the
legal price level still largely holds. And that
level embraces an area that is extensive and
vital? The food ration can still be bought for
ration coupons at prices not more than 20
percent higher than before the war; rents are
practically unchanged; industrial prices
have, in the main, been stabilized at pre-
occupation levels; wages and salaries have
been frozen into the prewar pattern; and for
the most essential expenditure, legal prices
in Germany are still far more in line with
the pre-war legal price level than in many
surrounding countries.

With respect to internal trade, the problem
was likewise of discouraging proportions.
The German internal trade and rationing
systems had largely broken down. German
agencies functioned haltingly, and only on a
skeleton basis; travel and communication
were virtually impossible; military and other

groups made necessary requisitions of sup-
plies from the civilian economy; and German
enforcement machinery, especially as regards
experienced personnel, was practically non-
existent. As a result of this situation, wide-
spread hoarding of goods by merchants was
the rule, black-market operations were the
order of the day, and internal trade in the
accepted sense did not exist.

During this period, internal trade func-
tions in the US Zone were performed by the
Price Control, Trade and Distribution, and
Rationing Section of the Economic Control
Agency, SHAEF, the forerunner of today’s
Internal Trade Section of the Trade and
Commerce Branch. Working with other MG
officials and aided by the enterprise of a
number of German businessmen, the efforts
of this group were concentrated on removing
physical road blocks, making it possible for
merchants to travel beyond the limits of
their home districts, and obtaining more

A saw-mill in Welzheim in the Black Forest, where lumber is

prepared for export to England, part of a bizonal trade program. Photo by Byers

<r

--- Page 21 ---
uniform interpretations of the directives of
various local, regional, and Laender MG
offices.

Between the middle of 1945 and the end
of the year, these and other problems were
largely overcome: Freight cars began to roll,
thus taking some of the transport load off
trucks; local telephone service was restored;
and waterways were opened to traffic. As a
result, interzonal trade in occupied Germany
was pushed off dead center and the early
chaos in internal trade gradually assumed a
semblance of order.

The groundwork laid in the last half of
1945 was the foundation for progress in the
following year. In February, the first inter-
zonal trade program between the US and
Soviet Zones was negotiated; and in im-
mediately succeeding months, plans were
formulated for additional interzonal trade.
Beginning with July 1946, trade between
the US Zone and the remaining three zones
of Germany began to show an irregular
upward trend. This was accompanied by the
removal of further restrictions, such as the
elimination of travel passes between the US
and British Zones, and the establishment of
a uniform food ration scale for commercial
travelers in all four zones. During the latter
months of the year, there was some increase
in the quantities of clothing and shoes dis-
tributed to German civilians in the US Zone.

RESPONSIBILITY TO GERMANS

Keeping the lid on prices, stimulating
internal trade, and overseeing the distribu-
tion of consumer goods in the US Zone are
still prime problems of the Trade and Com-
merce Branch. But more and more of the
work connected with these problems has been
turned over to German agencies which func-
tion under the supervision of Military Gov-
ernment. At the same time, the small Berlin
staffs of the Price Control and Internal
Trade Sections have devoted an increasing
amount of time to quadripartite activities in
their fields, and to the price control and
internal trade matters bound up with econ-
omic unification of the British and US Zones.

The problem of developing the US Zone’s

exports is in a different category. For one
thing, the Joint Export-Import Agency is
the only authority that can issue licences for
exports from the US and British Zones.
Thus, Military Government officials still
have the final say in the export field, despite
the fact that German suppliers have been
permitted to sign export contracts which
must then be indorsed by the German
Economic Ministry. In addition, transporta-
tion, food, and living accomodations for
foreign buyers in Germany can only be
provided by the military.

AUTHORITY STILL RESTRICTED

As compared with the early months of the
occupation, German foreign trade agencies
have been assigned a growing number of
tasks relating to exports; they have also
worked side-by-side with Military Govern-
ment in launching the well-attended export
shows at Munich, Wiesbaden, and Stuttgart.
But German authority in the field of foreign
trade is necessarily still restricted.

Last year, US Zone exports and exports
commitments ran to about 25,000,000 dollars,
only a fraction of the approximate goal of
300,000,000 dollars indicated in the Level-
of-Industry Plan on Reparations Agreement.
This year it is expected that US Zone
export activity will total some 100,000,000
dollars, about four times the 1946 rate. As
specified in the Level-of-Industry Plan, ex-
ports from Germany will be concentrated on
the output of her light industries. For the
US Zone, this means goods such as china-
ware, cameras, toys, building materials, light
machinery, pharmaceuticals, and handicraft
manufactures. This is in contrast to pre-war
days, when Germany relied-chiefly on exports
from her heavy industries — iron and steel,
basic chemicals, ships, and capital equipment.

‘What the German’s cost of living will be
and how he will live, how soon the US Zone’
will be self-supporting, and how quickly
economic unity will become a reality are all
direct concerns of the Trade and Commerce
Branch. The key to the future of these is
the equitable distribution, both abroad and
in Germany, of a larger industrial output.

--- Page 22 ---
~ EXPORT SHOW »

The Bavarian Export Show at Munich, after a run of seven months, is still
attracting large numbers of people to its exhibits of what Bavaria can
produce and would like to sell to buyers from any part of the world. Many
of Germany’s finest craftsmen and skilled manufacturers are represented at
the show with displays of porcelain, china, jewelry, textiles, machinery, toys,
prefabricated houses, sports cars, wood carvings, art craft, and many other
items. Organized by the Bavarian Minister of Economics and opened last
August, the Export Show
features the work of 800 firms
selected from 4000 applicants.
The purpose of this com-
prehensive representation of
Bavarian industry is to en-
courage foreign buyers to buy
German products so that
foreign exchange can be ob-
tained to pay for much-
needed imports. The show is
constantly being expanded
and more manufacturers in-
vited to display their pro-
ducts. The idea is to build
Munich into a US Zone super-
center of export trade.

(Right) Munich's Haus der Kunst
which houses the Bavarian Ex-
port Exhibition. Photo by Byers

--- Page 23 ---
(Above left) The theme plaque, prominently displayed at the exhibit, felling the German visitors that they must remember the
importance of exports to the rebuilding of Germany; (above right) part of the display of porcelain and ceramics representing the
products of leading Bavarian manufacturers; (below) German civilians examine a display of photographic equipment. Photos by Byers

--- Page 24 ---
(Above) Musical instruments made in Bavaria, long a center of the art; most of the instruments pictured were made
at the Hans Nebel shop in Mittenwald ; (below) a steeamlined one-cylinder motor bike, product of the Triumph Werke,
Nuremberg, and sample of what Bavarian manufacturers can do if given the necessary materials. Photos by Byers

--- Page 25 ---
.ESTITUTION

JM ctetngele's statue of the Madonna
and Child ... the Peugeot Motor
Works. . . the Veit Stoss Altar. . . hydro-
electric equipment from the Nordisk Lett-
metall aluminium plant ... the greatest
collection of Hebraic literature on the Con-
tinent..... a flock of caracul sheep .. -
the Crown Jewels and Coronation Regalia
of the Holy Roman Empire: these are among
the prizes won back by their rightful own-
ers — the nations looted by the Nazis and
their satellites — under the ambitious pro-
gram implemented by the Restitution
Branch, Economics Division.

During their years of victory, the Germans
brought home to the. Reich the cream of
the Continent’s. cultural and industrial as-
sets; in addition, they stripped the occupi-
ed countries of anything that struck their
fancy — whether it be a dress shop, a fleet
of street cars, or a vial of radium. These
items and many more were obtained by
“legal” purchase, by requistion, or by out-
right looting. It is the task of the Resti-
tution Branch to see that this wealth is re-
turned to its rightful owners. Its fulfillment
AG == requires the combined talents of the lawyer,

the diplomat, the technician, the art expert,

and — not least of all — the detective.
As early as the winter of 1942-43, the
Allied nations began to formulate a res-
titution policy. Meeting at London, repre-
sentatives of 18 of the Allied nations and
exiled Governments announced, on 5 Janu-
ary 1943, .the  ‘Inter-Allied Declaration
against Acts of Dispossession Committed in

Territories under Enemy Occupation or

Control.” This document, known as the Lon-

don Declaration, stated in effect that the Al-

--- Page 26 ---
lies reserved the right to invalidate trans-
fers of property in countries occupied or
controlled by Germany, even if such prop-
erty was later bought legally by an innocent
third party. This is in accordance with
the traditional principle that stolen goods
are recoverable by their original owner re-
gardless of subsequent transactions.

PROMULGATION OF LAW 52

In September 1944, SHAEF published
Law 52, which put teeth into the London
Declaration. Law 52 empowered the military
authorities to seize and manage all property
in Germany, whether belonging to enemy
Governments, to institutions or citizens,
or to absentee owners, including Allied Gov-
ernments and nationals. It prohibited trans-
actions in valuable or important cultural ma-
terials and in property owned or controlled
by religious, charitable, educational, cultural,
or scientific institutions. "Whoever had cus-

Two US MG civilians take inventory of antique furniture

and

art works to be shipped from Munich to France.

tody of property covered by Law 52 was in-
structed to hold it subject to the direction
of the military authorities, to whom he was
responsible for its safe-keeping and record-
ing.

an 52 was followed, on 10 May 1945, by
Directive 1067 from the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
which instructed the Commander-in-Chief of
the US Forces of Occupation to carry out
any program of restitution embodied in Al-
lied agreements and to seek agreement in the
Control Council on policies and measures
which had to be applied throughout Germany
if such programs were to be carried out suc-
cessfully.

In the late summer of 1945, a stop-gap
restitution program was begun in the US
Zone in accordance with Directive 1067. No
really definitive project could be undertaken,
however, until the four occupying powers
had reached agreement on a definition of res-
titution and on the numerous technical prob-

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 27 ---
lems involved. These problems included the
conditions of seizure of sale which would
make property subject to restitution: wheth-
er claimant countries should be permitted
to send missions to Germany to look for their
lost valuables; and who should pay for the
transport and repair of restituted goods.

RESTITUTION PROGRAM DEFINED

After months of discussion among the
Four Powers, the quadripartite Allied Con-
trol Council announced an official definition
of restitution on 21 January 1946, which was
clarified by an official interpretation adopted
early in March.

Long-range planning for restitution work
was begun by the Civil Affairs Division of
SHAEF early in 1944 and continued, after
August of that year, by the Reparations, De-
liveries, and Restitution Division of the US
Group Control Council. Between June and

Staff members of the Fine Arts and Monuments collecting point at Munich
inspect art works being prepared for shipment back fo their rightful owners.

26

October 1945, a number of “token restitu-
tions” were made under the jurisdiction of
USFET. Since October 1945, the body re-
sponsible for restitution has been known as
the Restitution Branch, Economics Division.

This Branch is composed of two sections
with headquarters in Berlin; Restitution,
which supervises the return to claimant na-
tions of “non-cultural” items (that is, any-
thing except books, archives, and works of
art); and Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives
(MFA&A), which is responsible for the resti-
tution to looted countries of books, archives,
and art (including furniture and jewelry of
artistic merit). The MFA&A Section also
has assisted in the restoration of important
German cultural monuments damaged during
the war, the rehabilitation of museums and
art institutions, and the return to the original
owner of German art treasures. ;

Like France, Italy, Great Britain, and even

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 28 ---
the United States, Germany tried to protect
its art from bomb damage. As the Allied
armies closed in, more and more of the
Reich’s movable works of art were rushed
to safety from the threatened cities — some-
times so hastily that they were not even
packed or crated — and hidden in mines, bunk-
ers, and churches throughout the nation. All
too often the records of the hiding places
were lost or destroyed. Literally thousands
of these art caches, known as “respositories”,
are scattered all over Germany. Nearly 1,400
had been reported in the US Zone alone by
December 1946 — and more are discovered
each month.

It is the task of the MFA&A officers to
locate such respositories, check their con-
tents, arrange for their safeguarding against
theft and weather damage. As soon as time
permits, they transfer looted works of art
and particularly important or valuable Ger-
man-owned items to a US Collecting Point
such as those at Munich and Wiesbaden. At
the Collecting Points the MFA&A officers,
assisted by German experts and specialists

from claimant countries, make a careful in-
ventory of the works of art, undertake the
measures necessary for their preservation,
and attempt to identify the rightful owners.

The first “token” restitution shipment took
place on 22 August 1945, when the famous
altar piece “The Adoration of the Mystic
Lamb,” by the Van Eyck brothers, was flown
back to Brussels in a special plane. This
was followed by a series of spectacular ship-
ments in the late summer and early fall of
1945, including Michelangelo’s statue of the
Madonna and Child (which went back to
Belgium), Rembrandt’s “Self Portrait” (to
the Netherlands), and the stained glass win-
dows of the Strasbourg Cathedral, which had
been found in a salt mine at Heilbronn (to
France).

Late in September the US Zone began to
restitute machinery as well as works of art.
By the end of 1945, restitution in the US
Zone was put on a more or less work-a-day
basis. Provision was made for the formal
receipt of property claims; despoiled coun-
tries were invited to send missions to Ger-

Some of the 300 streetcars stolen from Holland
by the Germans during the war, shown here
on flat-cars preparatory to shipment to Holland.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 29 ---
many; and categories of property subject to
restitution were established. Aside from
works of art, these categories included a di-
versity of non-cultural material as illustra-
ted by claims shipped during the year, rang-
ing from industrial machinery to a trio of
thoroughbred stallions.

Through the end of 1945, restitution was
almost entirely on. an interim, unilaterial
basis. It was not until the Four Powers
agreed on a definition of restitution, late in
January 1946, that the US Zone could start
a steady flow of regular, recorded restitu-
tion shipments. However, many complex
problems, such as that of so-called “internal
restitution” (the return of property owned
by German victims of Nazi looting), remain-
ed unsolved even after the definition was
agreed on.

RESTITUTION MISSIONS

At one time or another all of the eleven
United Nations now eligible for restitution
(Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France,
Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Nor-
way, Poland, the Soviet Union, and Yugo-
slavia) have had missions at Hoechst, head-
quarters of the Restitution Control Branch,
OMGUS Rear. Nine such restitution missions
were there at the turn of the year. Missions
do not travel about the US Zone unescorted,
searching for property subject to restitution,
but submit to US authorities claims, proof of
ownership, and, in the case of property need-
ed for reparations or vital to the German
economy, proof of forcible seizure.

The difficulty of locating and identifying
restitutable objects varies greatly according
to their type and value. In some cases there
is detailed German documentation. For ex-
ample, the 27 volumes of the records of the
Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg (a Nazi
organization charged with the collection of
Jewish-owned works of art) have proved in-
valuable in identifying the material in the
art collecting points. A major work, known
to be the property of a certain museum, pre-
sents no problem of identification — it needs
only to be packed and sent off aganinst re-
ceipt to the owner country. In other cases

28

looted museums can identify their own prop-
erty, and present proof of ownership, mere-
ly from the description in the collecting
point inventories.

The percentage of lost art treasures suc-
cessfully located and restituted also varies
widely: About two-thirds of the stolen
French art has been returned, while the
Poles fear that almost two-thirds of their
national treasure is gone for good — much
of it, of course, destroyed during the war.
The great bulk of the art objects, both Ger-
man and foreign-owned, were found in art
repositories where the Germans had placed
them for safe-keeping. The treasures of the
Martin von Wagner Museum, Wuerzburg,
were found in a bunker at Schweinfurt as
late as December 1946, after an 18-month
search by German and American agencies.
Other works of art have been traced through
black market art dealers, and still others
have been located by intelligence officers
tracking down clues in a manner ag spec-
tacular as that of any Perry Mason or Lord
Peter Wimsey.

MG LAW NO. 52 IMPLEMENTED

In April 1946, the process of locating loot-
ed property in the US Zone was simplified
when the Germans were required to file dec-
larations of possession or knowledge of
such property. More than 24,000 of these
declarations had been filed by the end of the
year, and more then 800 claims had been
presented as a result of this information. In
December, US Military Government Law
No. 52 on property control was implemented
to provide machinery (in the US Zone prop-
er but not in the US Sector of Berlin) for
legal trade in works of art whose value was
not over RM 10,000. This supplies a means
of screening dealers for looted property, and,
incidentally, gives encouragement to living
German artists.

Since the Van Eyck altar piece was re-
turned to Belgium in August 1945, the Res-
titution Branch. has supervised the return of
paintings by the ton, archives by the truck-
load, machinery by the freight-car load, and
enough gold and precious stones to stagger

--- Page 30 ---
King Midas. In some cases, notably machin-
ery, it is possible to measure the work of the
Restitution Branch in terms of dollars and
cents. But in others, notably cultural mater-
ial, many of the items returned are price-
less. Who can set a value on the Sword of
Charlemagne or fix a “fair” price for Michel-
angelo’s statue of the Madonna and Child?

Although the looted property phase of
the Restitution Branch’s work has gotten the
headlines, in the early post-combat days
MFA&A officers were also concerned
with the preservation of German-owned art
treasures as part of the world’s heritage. The
staffs of Germany’s museums, libraries,
universities, and other cultural institutions
were scattered by war and invasion; many
of her prominent art experts and ad-
ministrators turned out to be politically un-
acceptable to the occupation authorities; and
a large number of the great museums and
libraries were destroyed or so badly damag-
ed that they were unfit to shelter the material
which had been removed to the repositories
for safekeeping.

It ‘is against this background of dis-
organization that the MFA&A officers have

had to work in the US Zone, returning Ger-
man-owned works of art to German custody,
and advising the Land Ministries on the re-
constitution of museums and _ libraries.
Because some structures had to be given at
least first-aid treatment promptly if the
world was not to suffer an irreparable loss,
MFAS&A officers in the early days of the
occupation also assisted in the repair and
reconstruction of cultural monuments —
including churches, palaces, and castles —
which were damaged during the war. This
work is now proceeding slowly, under Ger-
man supervision and largely with German
volunteer labor, in the face of shortages of
raw materials and skilled workmen.

In sum, the restitution of looted property
is not only a matter of moral justice; it is
also a political and economic necessity in the
rebuilding of despoiled nations. As regards
the protection of Germany’s art treasures,
the task — in the words of the report of the
American Commission for the Protection and
Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments
in War Areas — “was nothing leas than to
preserve as much as they could of man’s
creative past.”

Three Steps to Boost Coal Production

Three important steps affecting the Ger-
man coal situation were announced by Erik
Noelting, chairman of the Coal Working
Party in the British and US Zones, and Eco-
nomic Minister for Land North Rhine West-
phalia, the territory in which the greater part
of German coal is mined. They are:

1. The immediate introduction of a “points
system,” whereby coal miners with a com-
plete attendance record for each month will
receive for that month a consumer goods
card.. This card will have a certain “points
value” — dependent upon the worker’s atten-
dance, his output, and the nature of his work
— entitling the miner to buy certain con-
sumer goods at normal prices. These goods
will include: textiles, coffee, sugar, and bacon
from local resources.

2. The relegation to the German author-

29

ities, with effect from 1 January, of the
responsibility for allocation among the
various industries of that part of the coal
output of the two zones which was earmarked
for essential civilian consumers in the zone.

3. The recommendation to issue a certain
amount of domestic fuel to the German pop-
ulation. This makes an increase in output
even more essential; but in view of the urgent
need, an initial issue has been authorized.
Future increase of production over the aver-
age figure for the first ten days of December
would go partly to industry and partly to
domestic fuel. The miner would thus have
the knowledge that every extra ton he pro-
duced would directly benefit the fireplaces
of his fellow countrymen.

— British Zone Review

--- Page 31 ---
I: 1933, the year when Hitler came into
power, Germany produced only 18,900 tons
of primary aluminium, an indispensable
product for modern war. In 1939, the year
when Germany’s armed forces swept into
Poland, German production of primary alu-
minum had risen to 185,500 tons — despite
the fact that Germany originally had none
of the components for aluminum production.
While this tenfold increase in German alu-
minum output was taking place, production
outside Germany increased only fourfold. It
was another case of a Nazi-engineered cartel
at work, another case of using international
agreements — often secret in nature — to
build up Germany’s war potential at the ex-
pense of the rest of the world.

Always an economic force to contend with,
German concentrations of power — as typi-
fied by combines, cartels, trusts, and syn-
dicates — became spearheads of aggression
in the years following 1933. In the United
States they were responsible for restricting
the development of gyroscopic instruments,
vital to navigation and strategic bombing;
for preventing the shipment of tetracence,
the most efficient ammunition combustion
agent known, to Great Britain in 1940; and
for obstructing the manufacture of Buna
tubber right up to the time of the bombing
of Pearl Harbor,

It was machinations such as these that
prompted the Chiefs of State of the United
States, United Kingdom, and the Soviet
Union to declare at Potsdam that “the Ger-
man economy shall be decentralized for the
purpose of eliminating the present excessive
concentration of economic power as exempli-

DECARTELIZATION

fied in particular by cartels, syndicates.
trusts, and other monopolistic arrangements.”

Even before Potsdam, the G-5 Division of
SHAEF had a special staff laying the
groundwork for the eventual destruction of
Germany’s war-making economic power. Its
members and special agents, moving along
with advancing troops — and often operat-
ing under fire — captured key industrial-
ists, pounced on banks, seized files whole-
sale, looked over tons of records, and inter-
rogated everyone who was likely to help in
the job of showing how concentrations of
economic power built up the Third Reich’s
ability to wage war.

TRUST-BUSTING ORGANIZATION

A few months after Potsdam, the sub-
stance of this work in the US Zone was taken
over by a specially-created unit, the Division
of Investigation of Cartels and External As-
sets, which was created within the American
Military Government. Late in 1945, the
Division was split, with the “external assets”
function being placed in the Finance Division
and the “cartels” function forming the
nucleus of a new trust-busting organization,
the Decartelization Branch. This branch was
placed in the Economics Division and form-
ally began to function on 1 January 1946.

From the outset, the Decartelization
Branch has lived a David-and-Goliath exist-
ence. With never more than 100 persons
on its staff, it is charged directly or in-
directly with elimination of the most highly-
developed concentrations of economic power
ever known and overseeing the development
of an economy composed of efficient, inde-

--- Page 32 ---
Consider I. G.
Farbenindustrie, AG, perhaps the most fab-
ulous organization of its kind in world

pendent economic units.

history.
-On 1 January 1945, total assets of I. G.
Farben —- more a gigantic industrial co-

operative than a corporation in the American
sense were estimated at close to
RM 7,500,000,000, equal to about three bil-
lion dollars. Through ownership of stock,

: patents, and trademarks; through conirol of

S2

raw materials; through exclusive sales con-
tracts; through regulation of prices and al-
lotment of quotas; Farben owned, controlled,
managed, or operated more than 1,000 mills,
mines, factories, and firms throughout the
world and employed upwards of 500,000
persons. “I. G.” produced all of Germany’s
Buna rubber and cellophane; virtually all of
its dyestuffs, nickel, and poisonous gases;
90 percent of its plastics, 85 percent of its
explosives, 75 percent of its nitrogen, 70 per-
cent of its gunpowder; and about half of its
aviation gasoline.

But Farben was not only Germany’s bone
and muscle; it was also its eyes and ears.

31

By finding jobs for agents in Farben-owned
or controlled companies all over the world,
it made available to the Third Reich a rich
fund of economic intelligence that was used
to strengthen Germany and weaken its poten-
tial enemies. So striking was the Farben role in
creating Germany’s war potential that it was
reserved for special treatment by the Allies.

FARBEN CONTROL OFFICERS

In November 1945, under Law No. 9 of
the Allied Control Council all property and
assets of the organization in Germany were
seized and legal title vested in four I. G.
Farben Control Officers, one from each of the
occupying nations. In the US Zone, which
has an estimated ten percent of Farben’s
assets, the “Control Officer” is also the chief
of the Decartelization Branch. Together
with the Control Officers of the British,
French, and Soviet Zones, his job is to see
that plants used exclusively for war-making
purposes are destroyed and that others are
made available for reparations; that cartel
relations are terminated; thai production and
research are controlled; and that the owner-

--- Page 33 ---
ship of whatever plants are retained for the
essential civilian economy is dispersed.

The German’s penchant for turning ‘any
monopoly to their own devices ranged’ far
‘and wide and included apparently harmless
organizations. The Mitteleuropaeisches Reise-
buero (MER), or Central European Travel
Agency, is a case in point.

MER began in1918 as the Deutsches Reise-
buero, a private company with headquarters
in Berlin; its founders were the North Ger-
man Lloyd Company at Bremen and the
Hamburg-America Line at Hamburg. By
1924, it had become exclusive agent for the
German Railway Administration, the Royal
Hungarian Railways, the Hungarian Trans-

Part of the I. G. Farben Industries at Hoechst; the cartel’s assets just prior to the
end of the war were estimated at over RM 7 billion, or about 3 billion dollars.

32

port Companies, and the official Austrian
Traveling Agency (Oesterreichisches Ver-
kehrsbuero). Its name was then changed to
Mitteleuropaeisches Reisebuero.

With the change in name came a change
in function. Not only did MER encourage
travel between Germany and the countries of
continental Europe, but it also used “travel-
ers” to draw countries such as Hungary,
Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Italy into its
sphere of influence. MER had a monopoly
on the sale of German railway tickets and
the operation of all travel agencies in Ger-
many; it had 1,200 representatives both in
Germany and abroad, either through private
offices connected by agreement or through

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 34 ---
owned, controlled, managed,

Another scene of the Farben plant at Hoechst, one of more than 1000 mills

agencies of big foreign travel organizations.
During the "thirties, it created branches in
key foreign cities such as Paris, Amsterdam,
and New York, and staffed them with polit-
ical and economic observers who were
nothing less than special agents of the
Third Reich.

Yet Farben and MER represented only
two of scores of similar espionage agencies
that wore the cloak of corporate organization
in Germany. And they were intricately or-
ganized, deliberately to defy detection. The
thread of ownership often becomes lost in a
maze of stock participations, interlocking
directorates, service contracts, trademark
agreements, sales contracts, and patent ar-

or operated by the cartel until the occupation.

rangements. Sometimes the pattern was
made so complex that even the German of-
ficials themselves now lose their way, as in
the case of the Celluloid Sales Company
whose organization chart still shows ques-
tion marks with respect to the ownership of
two subsidiaries.

Throughout 1946, it took practically all
of the Decartelization Branch’s time to find
its way around the razzle-dazzle superstruct-
ure supporting Germany’s concentrations of
economic power. Truckloads of material had
to be screened and assimilated; leads had to
be tracked down; officials had to be question-
ed for hours, days, and weeks on end; ways
and means of plugging legal loopholes had

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 35 ---
to be thought up before they appeared.
Nevertheless, the Decartelization Branch
staff, in cooperation with the I, G. Farben
Control Committee, the quadripartite Decar-

telization Working Party, and a half-dozen

other working parties, has made notable
progress toward its goal.

The Working Association for the Distri-
buti:on of Lubricants (Arbeitsgemeinschaft
Schmierstoff-Verteilung) has been dissolved
and the objectionable features of two other
monopolistic organizations are being removed
— the Association for the Distribution of
Motor Fuels (Arbeitsgemeinschaft Mineral-
oel-Verteilung) and the Central Bureau for
Motor Fuels (Centralbuero fuer Mineraloel).

All restrictive practices of the Kohlen-
kontor, the coal distributing organization of
the Ruhr mining interests,
removed.

In conjunction with denazification pro-
ceedings, some 2,000 persons have been re-
moved from industrial positions with I. G.
Farben plants in the US Zone and the work
of permanently restraining undesirable per-
sons from key positions in other enterprises
is well under way, as illustrated by the in-
dictment of steel-king Friedrich Flick on
war-crimes charges early this year.

To prepare for administration of a De-
cartelization Law, detailed information on
companies belonging to 36 industrial com-
bines such as Vereinigte Stahlwerke, Metall-
gesellschaft, Schering, AEG, and Siemens &
Halske, has been assembled. Also, prelimi-
nary studies of 17 major industries — in-
cluding iron and steel, food, matches, tex-
tiles, coal, shipping, oil, dyestuffs, and chemi-
cals — have been made as a guide to the
type of problem that may be expected in
enforcement.

Decartelization Branch representatives at
the Allied Control Authority are working on
many other problems including inland water-
way cartels and trusts, excessive concentra-
tions in the insurance industry, a reorgani-
zation plan for the German movie industry,
the registration of all securities issued in
Germany which carry management or control
provisions, the adoption in Germany of an

have been

34

FOB factory-pricing system, and the type
of patent law which would be most desirable
to accomplish the basic objective of eliminat-_
ing monopolistic influences from the German
industrial economy.

While the Branch has been engrossed in
problems such as these, it has had to keep
a weather eye on possible attempts to revive
cartels in the US Zone. As recently as
January 1947, eight top officials of ARBED
(Luxembourg Steel Combine), whose chief
executive is also permanent president of the
International Steel Cartel, applied for entry
into the US Zone. Since ARBED was closely
affiliated with German cartel interests, the
Decartelization Branch saw to it that the
Combined Travel Board denied their appli-
cation for entry. Similarly, two Swiss sub-
jects who had cartel ties were barred from
the US Zone, and Germans have been pre-
vented from accepting appointment as
directors of Swiss firms.

INVESTIGATORY FUNCTION

Between the early months of 1945 — when
access to German enterprises first became
possible — until the end of 1946, the work
of the Decartelization Branch and its pre-
decessors was largely investigatory. This
phase of the job in the US Zone had already
tapered sharply early this year, when identi-
cal Decartelization Laws were signed in the
British and US Zones. Drafted in accordance
with Paragraph 12 of the Potsdam Agree-
ment, these laws are modelled after the Sher-
man Anti-Trust Act in the United States and
will help to provide the basis for develop-
ment of a free and competitive German in-
dustrial economy. Both laws became effect-
ive simultaneously on 12 February 1947
and may well mark the beginning of the end
of the long and rocky road already travelled
toward enactment of a quadripartite Decar-
telization Law.

The second, and final, phase of the de-
cartelization job is that of enforcement and
education. The problems connected with this
phase will be different, but — as officials of
the branch are apt to observe wryly — the
headaches will be the same,

--- Page 36 ---
Germans Take Over GCEA

Decentralization of OMGUS operating
responsibility to German agencies will be
furthered 15 March when the bulk of eco-
nomic and statistical data belonging to
former German Central Economic Agencies,
now in the custody of the Ministerial Docu-
ments Branch in Berlin, will be turned over
to German officials of the Bizonal Executive
Committee for Economics.

The Ministerial Documents Branch in
Berlin contains all appropriated records of
former German Central Agencies taken under
MG custody since teams, operating under
G-2 SHAEF in the spring of 1945, assumed
control of the documents and records which
had been hidden by the German agencies
throughout Western Germany.

The entire collection of material is being
screened by intelligence personnel, and all
operational material considered appropriate
for German use will be transferred to the
German Bizonal Agencies in Minden, West-
phalia. The documents on hand have been
the source of information for some 1,200
reports on the German economy prepared
during the last 18 months. The basic data
from which these reports were prepared will
continue to be made available by the Ger-
mans at Minden to all Allied Powers.

Custody and control of the economics doc-
uments of the Ministerial Collection will
pass to Dr. Victor Agartz, chairman of the
German Executive Commitiee for Economics.

Authorization was granted 15 February
for the voluntary mailing of printed matter
by ‘persons from addresses in the United
States and the United Kingdom to addresses
in the US and British Zones of Germany.

Printed matter includes newspapers, books,
and periodicals, in parcels weighing up to
4.4 pounds as prescribed by Universal Postal
Union regulations governing this classifica-
tion of international mail.

German nationals and institutions in the

35

US Zone of Germany were first author
to receive printed matter from the
States through international postal channels
on 3 February.

Reparations Allocation

General-purpose equipment from Fabrik
Hess, Lichtenau, located at Fuerstenhagen-
Kassel, Hesse, has been allocated by the
Inter-Allied Reparations Agency in Brussels
to nine nations; Albania, Belgium, Denmark,
France, United Kingdom, Greece, Luxem-
bourg, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia.

Hess, Lichtenau, was an explosive-chemi-
cal plant constructed specifically for the
production of high explosives, and included
three power plants, two of which are almost
completely underground. All buildings are
of massive concrete construction, camou-
flaged with shrubs and trees planted on the
roof. The special-purpose facilities at this
plant are scheduled for destruction as war
potential, to be completed as soon as general-
purpose equipment is removed as reparations.

First Post-War Car

The pilot model of the first passenger
automobile produced in the US Zone since
the end of World War II came off the as-
sembly line 21 February at the Opel plant
at Russelsheim, Hesse.

The automobile is a four cylinder, two-
door sedan known as the Opel Olympic. It
is equipped with five wheels and tires, a
dust-proof luggage rack, and a heater. Its
maximum speed is 95 miles per hour, and it
cruises safely at 65 miles per hour.

When production finally gets under way,
an output of 100 units per day will be
sought, depending upon the availability of
raw materials. However, regular manufactur-
ing will not be achieved for several months,
since truck production at the Russelsheim
plant has priority.

--- Page 37 ---
EXCERPTS FROM OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Pertinent excerpts from official instruc-
tions are printed for the benefit of our
readers. Official copies of the quoted
circulars, letters, and directives may be ob-
tamed by writing to the originating head-
quarters. . ;

German Channels of Authority

Ditticulues arising trom day-to-day prob-
lems in fields covered by bizonal committees
are to be solved among proper German auth-
orities and reterred only as a last resort to
Land Military Governments for assistance,
says UMGUS directive AG 014.12 (LU),
“Proper Use of German Channels of Autho-
rity,” 19 February 1947.

When such a ditticulty arises, the Land
Minister concerned will take it up with the
corresponding Munister in the other Land
concerned. Jf a solution cannot be effected,
the matter will be taken to the Ministers-
President of the two Laender and then to the
bizonal committee. Only in the event all
these steps prove unsuccessful should the
matter be reterred to the Land MUU’s.

‘Ihe directive provides that all principles
named above adhere strictly to this proce-
dure, and instructions be given such distribu-
tion as 1s necessary to insure that all offices
concerned are familiar with the procedure.

Indigenous Employee Wages

Clarificauon of setung and adjusting the
wage scales of German civilian employees is
contained in Change 4 to USFET Civilian
Personnel Circular 12, dated 4 February
1947, subject “Administration of Indigenous
Civilian Kmployees in US Occupied Zone,
Germany.” Change 4 rescinds par 3f sec V
of the original circular and substitutes in its
place the following:

“Wages will be those approved and pub-
lished by the Office of Military Government,
provided the wages paid to United Nations
displaced persons will, in all cases, be the
highest such approved German wage for the
position or job in question. Information re-

garding wage scales is available at the Ar-
beitsamt. In all cases where the wages paid
to German civilian personnel by the US #or-
ces are below those prevailing in German
industry, the local German Labor Office (Ar-
beitsamt) will be directed by the civilian
personnel officer responsible for the procure-
ment of indigenous labor to re-adjust such
wage scales to those prevailing in German
industry. Notification of all such changes
or re-adjustments will be sent to the Uftice
of Manpower Division, Office of Military
Government of the respective Land. In the
event that a particular occupation is not list-
ed in the published wage schedule the local
Arbeitsamt will set a provisional wage rate
or salary based on the principle that such
wage rate shall conform with the wage rate
or salary of a similar occupation in private
industry.”

Civilians Remaining in Europe

Conditions under which a War Depart-
ment civilian employee of Military Govern-
ment can remain in Lurope after termination
of employment are cited in OMGUS directive
AG 014.33 (AG), “Application of WD Em-
ployees to Remain in the Uccupied Areas of
Germany and/or Austria,” 13 kebruary 1947.

The directives provides that such requests
must be referred to the Office of the Person-
nel Officer, Civilian Personnel Branch, Om-
GUS, APO 742, for prior approval.

Such approval will be ettected only when
the individual has in his possession a valid
passport and an entry visa to the country
to which he is proceeding on the European
continent. In each case, one-way travel or-
ders will be issued, providing the employee
with transportation to the approved country
outside the occupied areas.

The length of time to be spent in the oc-
cupied areas, following termination of em-
ployment, will not exceed 15 days, unless
specific approval has been obtained from
the Chief, Civilian Personnel Branch, Office
of the Personnel Officer, OMGUS.

--- Page 38 ---
Polish Border Question

The German-Polish border question, es-
pecially in view of ihe approaching confer-
ence of Foreign Ministers in Moscow, has
been given special emphasis in the German
press, according to the weekly analysis by
the Uifice of the Director of Information
Control, OMGUS, of the editorial opimons
expressed in the licensed press of the US
Zone.

The Hochland Bote (Garmisch-Parten-
kirchen) carried an editorial written by Kurt
Schumacher, prominent German SPD leader,
saying: “It is an old fact that the Eastern
border is for the present not just an admin-
istrative border determined before the Pots-
dam Agreement by two interested powers.
Neither Germany nor world peace should
suifer under the fact that Russia has revised
her borders at the expense of Poland in the
West and that Poland therefore has been
promised a part of Germany. That is a uni-
lateral action which pacifies no one.”

Schumacher declared that the territory
cannot be economically fully exploited by
Poland and that on the other hand millions
of expellees are anxious to return to their
homes there. He did not demand an outright
return of the territory but pointed to the
social and economic effects on Germany,
particularly its food production. Instead he
indicated the possibility of the land being
retained by Poland, with the expellees now
in Germany being returned. ;

He said, “The peoples of the East, above
all the Poles, could greet it as an economic
benefit if many Germans would return to the
old home beyond the new eastern borders
and to their old jobs. This applies not only
to the agricultural sector but also the crafts
and trades, business and intellectual profes-
sions.” y

In conclusion, Schumacher said; ‘Looking
at this dispassionately will help to achieve
a successful result, for Poland shares the

\

is not her ultimate px blem, but instedth.thi
role she must play in the coming Europe
on behalf of the security and peace of the
world.”

An editorial in the Fuldaer Volkszeitung
(Fulda) took the prevailing Anglo-American
view that, according to the Powsdam Agree-
ment, the western border of Poland is not
final. It pointed out that this area is one-
fifth of Germany as of 1933 and raised one-
fourth of its agricultural produce. The
writer saw Soviet support of Polish claims
as understandable as that is the way by
which Poland is to be compensated for its
territorial logs.

But the editorial pointed out: “The loss
of this huge German area would be extreme-
ly painful for the Germans and they could
not get over it. This is predominantly Ger-

“man land which a German population cul-

tivated and on which it settled. It has been
tied inseparably with German history for
nearly a thousand years.”

Union of Socialists Sought

Neues Deutschland, Soviet-licensed SED
organ in Berlin, printed a statement signed
by the leaders of the SED and by the leaders
of the Communist Party in the western oc-
cupation zones, declaring that it is necessary
to create as soon as possible collaboration
among all socialist parties in Germany in
order to bring about the unity of the German
labor movement in all zones.

“In order to create the presuppositions for
a uniform socialist party the representatives
of the zone managements of the Communist
Party have suggested to the SED that there
be created working committees between the
two parties,” declared the statement. “The
leadership of the SED has accepted this pro-
posal. Such working committees have been
created... The committees will have a cen-
tral bureau in Berlin and subcommittees at-

--- Page 39 ---
tached to the various zone managements of
the KPD. The committee appeals to all work-
ing people, particularly manual laborers, to
fight for the unity of the labor movement...”

The statement was, signed by Pieck and
Grotewohl for the Socialist Unity Party, by
Max Reimann and Kurt Mueller for the
Communist Party in the British Zone, and by
Fritz Sperling and Walter Fisch for the
Communist Party in the American Zone.

American Play Reviewed

The German production of “Watch On the
Rhine” at the US-licensed Hebbel Theater
received mixed reviews in the Berlin press.
The French-licensed Kurier and Berlin am
Mittag, recently licensed by the Soviets, ran
the strongest criticisms of the Lillian Hell-
man play.

The Kurier declared that the play is a
topical one whose timeliness has passed. It
stated that by no means does it clear the
situation or reveal the real villians. The
paper observed that the good side is
characterized by an active antifascist, but
the villain is a common rogue who does not
have to have any political standpoint.

“We have received another disappoint-
ment,” declared Berlin am. Mittag. “Where
does one fight here against fascism? The real
enemy is never shown. This is a cinema for
a sensational audience, family gossip, laugh
politics, and in the end the usual revolver
shooting. And that should cover the German
situation? No, that’s entirely wrong .. .”
The paper said that is understandable that
the play was a success overseas six years
ago. It observed that at that time the play
fulfilled its task of showing to the Americans
the part of Germany unknown to Americans
who didn’t know much about the resistance
movement. Today, though, it accomplishes
nothing.

The questions raised in this play come
from reality,” declared Neues Deutschland,
stating that the theme of the play impressed
New York just as it did Berlin in the Hebbel.
The paper observed that the antifascist’s

38

views on the Spanish civil war represented
those of the other Germans during the Hitler
time. It stated that the performance is a
view into the world, that there is a serious
and hard core of truth in the play which
hasn’t dimmed. The paper suggested that all
classes of Germans see “Watch on the
Rhine.” p

The Taegliche Rundschau, overt Soviet
newspaper, praised the play for its success
in America, saying it helped much more than
any other written piece to bring America to
fight against Hitler.

‘Victims’ Seek a Just Peace

Das. Zeit Echo (Schwaebisch-Hall) report-
ed that a meeting of Victims of Fascism in
that city adopted an appeal to the victorious
powers for a “just peace.” The appeal includ-
ed in part:

“We know that the future will be hard
and that we should not harbor illusions. But
we need hope that there will be a future at
all for us and for our children... We hope
for a political and economic reunification of
the still separate zones... All our work and
strength shall serve the aim of a free and
democratic Germany ... For such a Ger-
many hundreds of thousands have fought
against the Nazi regime and have sacrificed
their health and life in prisons and concentra-
tion camps. Their sacrifice today gives us
the right to raise our voice for a just peace.”

Denazification Appraisal

Heinrich Schmitt, former Bavarian Min-
ister of Denazification, expressed his fear in
the Neue Presse (Coburg) that thorough de-
nazification has not been effected. He wrote
in part:

“I reject the final conclusion of the Inter-
national Committee that the denazification of
Germany was a failure because of the op-
position of the greater part of the popula-
tion. However, it must be admitted that the
German people have not fulfilled their great
historical task of removing fascism and end-
ing the war with a great revolutionary act.”

--- Page 40 ---
US Papers See Progress by

UN on Disarmament Question

The United Nations, in the opinion of the
US press, are now closer to agreement on the
principles_leading to general disarmament
and elimination of atomic weapons than at
any time in the past in spite of the some-
times frustrating debates in the Security
Council.

Comment on recent developments in the
Security Council welcomed the establishment
of the new Arms Commission io deal with
matters not within the province of the pre-
viously-established Atomic Energy Commis-
sion. Many editorials interpreted the recent
statement by Soviet Delegate Andrei Gromy-
ko as a further concession, in principle at
least, to the position held by the other Secu-
rity Council Delegates regarding punishment
for violations of a proposed convention to
outlaw atomic weapons. Editorials pointed
out, however, that Gromyko still insists upon
retention of the veto power with regard to
punishment of violators.

The New York Herald Tribune said that if
the Soviets continue to insist on immediate
scrapping of atomic bombs by the United
States in return for the “vague promise that
some time, somehow, a system of internation-
al control of atomic weapons would be
agreed to by the Soviet Union” the prospects
for world cooperation on this issue will be
dim indeed.

The Tribune continued: “Fortunately there
were some gleams of light in Gromyko’s
otherwise gloomy appraisal of the present
situation. The last eight months have not
been wholly wasted. Russia accepts the
principle of international control rather than
natioual administration of atomic conventions
which she had originally urged: She accepts
the thesis that violators must be punished.
Moreover, Gromyko had not deadlocked the
Council in a discussion of his demands for

39

made agreement on these questions
requisite for future negotiations ....

“(US Delegate) Austin was wise and
statesmanlike in emphasizing the positive
aspects of Gromyko’s speech and in ignoring
its tone, which was by no means conciliatory.
The United States has made its position on
essential clear. It cannot afford, in its own
interest or those of world peace, to retreat.
Tf Russia is willing to accept these essentials
— as the other nations of the world, except
Poland, have done — there is room for dis-
cussion of details and machinery. Gromyko’s
counter-proposals should demonstrate whet-
her that room exists; whether Russia has
something concrete and helpful to offer.”

St. Louis Globe Democrat: “The slow,
bitterly debated course of the United Nations
is, for all the suspicious antagonisms, making
progress, The Security Council has now
agreed to complete the divorce between atomic
bomb controls and the program for conven-
tional disarmament. The vote was nine to
two with Russia and Poland abstaining. This
is not so much a surrender by the Soviet as
another indication that Russia is moving, if
reluctantly, toward respect for world opin-
ion... ..

“Barriers have not all been passed. But
as each appears it has so far been negotiated
successfully. The Soviet Union, despite its
relentless opposition to America’s plan for
iron-clad enforcement of bars against atomic
weapons, has repeatedly shown itself un-
willing to block the issue irretrievably ....

“This is the most encouraging sign on the
UN horizon. Hope rises not so much from the
fact that thé US plan is making headway, as
from the fact that the plan’s soundness is
endorsed by all other nations except Russia.
If this attitude grows, the tortuous road of
the UN will straighten and the world will
breathe free again when the Lake Success
story is finished.”

--- Page 41 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

STATION LIST

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co

*S-10 SK Stuttgart
*S-21 LK Boeblingen
*S-23 LK Esslingen
*S-29 LK Ludwigsburg
*S-30 LK Waiblingen
*S-50 LK Backnang
*S-53 LK Leonberg
*S-55 LK Nuertingen
*$ 58 LK Vaihingen

*M-16 SK/LK Mannheim
*M-43 SK/LK Heidelberg
*M-89 LK Buchen

*M-90 LK Mosbach

*M-91 LK Tauberbischofsheim
*M-92 LK Sinsheim

*K-47 SK/LK Karlsruhe
*K-46 SK/LK Pforzheim
*K-87 LK Bruchsal

*H-28 SK/LK Heilbronn
*H-22 LK Crailsheim
*H-26 LK Schwaebisch Hall
*H-52 LK Kuenzelsau
*H-54 LK Mergentheim
*H-56 LK Oehringen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stutigart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area

Stuttgart
Boeblingen
Esslingen
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Leonberg
Nuertingen
Vaihingen

Mannheim Area

Mannheim
Heidelberg

Buchen

Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
Sinsheim

Karlsruhe Area

Karlsruhe
Pforzheim
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area

Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schwaebisch Hall
Kuenzelsau

Bad Mergentheim
Oehringen

40

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen F A Keating
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Mr Sumner Sewall

Lt Col M O Edwards
Ist Lt J B Clifford

Lt Col I L Harlow
Capt M P Ernst
Capt N Semaschko Jr
Capt E E Oja

Maj F A Hubbard
Capt R Forrest

Capt S P Giunta

Maj J S Capell

Capt S Smith

Lt Col C H Rue
Lt Col C I Jackson
Capt C A Wright
Capt I D Claxton
Capt N W Barber
Capt J E Switzer

Lt Col W T Burt
Maj R H Stimson
Capt T C Stenson

Lt Col CH J West
Capt R E Alley
Capt C E Keena
Capt T E Griswold
Capt B V Bloom
Capt G H Caple

--- Page 42 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*U-11 SK/LK Ulm Ulm Maj M L Hoover
*U-25 LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Lt Col A G Spitz
*U-20 LK Aalen Aalen Maj C H Pallette
*U-24 LK Schwaebisch Gmuend Schwaebisch Gmuend Maj R Lascoe
*U-27 LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Maj L H Kyle

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Huenfeld
*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Buedingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE

Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Ruedesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Huenfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Buedingen

4

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Ist Lt P J Weiss
Capt B A Sturdevan

Maj G C Sola

Col F H Boucher
Maj D Easterday
Maj B L Bassingor
Capt C D Fexy

Capt W L Culbertson
Maj R A Gish

Lt Col M A Meacham
Capt J S Chapin

Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F -Hintz
Capt J Nottingham
Capt J N Francis
Maj M E Chotas
Capt O Howard

Lt Col G J Alhrecht
Maj W C Gipple
Maj J Connely
Capt T W Harris
Lt Col C H Reed
Lt Col H_R Cress
Capt W G Westbrook Jr
Maj C F Parshall
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Maj E E Covell
Maj H Baymor
Capt S Kershaw
Capt L R Allen
Capt T E Faircloth

Lt Col A Skarry
Capt N C Neider
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj A Gill

Maj L_H Brown
Capt G P Johnson

--- Page 43 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq & Sv Company

Co A

*A-210 SK/LK Wurzburg
*A-220 SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK/LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen
*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Bruckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemunden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*A-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt
*A-339 LK Konigshofen
*A-340 LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg
*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich
3rd Mil Gov Begt

(APO 170)

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Unterfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Saale
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt M S Clark
Maj P E Perry
Maj C R Russe
Capt C R Argo
Capt S A Karas

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Maj R M Schwartz

Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col Robert Herbison
Lt Col M W Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R C Jernigin
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Maj R C Gesell
Capt G G Brock
Maj J S Sullivan
Capt V R Hurst
Maj R J Holmes
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Maj J E Breland
Capt S E Witty
Capt L K Owens
Capt T F Griffin
Maj A C MclIntyre
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt L D Jaeger
Capt J A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B
*B-211 SK/LK Nurnberg
*B-222 SK/LK Bamberg
*B-223 SK/LK Bayreuth
*B-224 SK/LK Erlangen
*B-225 Neustadt & Coburg
*B-226 Kronach
*B-227 SK/LK Hof
*B-228 SK/LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK/LK Furth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels &
SK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*B-254 SK/LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Furth

Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz

42

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J C Barnet
Lt Col S M Guild

Lt Col F Robie

Maj S Klein

Maj H T Lund

Maj H L Woodall

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott

Maj F W Crimp
Mai C T King

Ist Lt L W Vilgard
Maj F Meszar

Capt H C Stamatis

--- Page 44 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*B-256 LK Muenchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuhl
*B-262 LK Eichstatt
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpolstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf

*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila

*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Muenchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Herzbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf

Neustadt a. d. Aisch

Naila
Stadtsteinach

Maj R C Anderson
Capt W _W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H Zurn

Maj L L Haupt
Capt R T Towle
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt R E Peters
Maj C W Collier
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj F C Smith
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
Maj F T Brewster

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D

*D-212 SK/LK Regensburg

*D-230 SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt
a. d. Wald

*D-243 SK/LK Passau

*D-244 SK/LK Amberg

*D-245 SK/LK Landshut

*D-246 SK/LK Straubing

*D-274 LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglengenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunherg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach

*D-301 LK Deggendorf

*D-302 LK Eggenfelden

*D-303 LK Grafenau

*D-304 LK Kehlheim

*D-305 LK Landau a. d. Isar

*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen

*D-307 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen

*D-309 LK Vilsiburg

*D-310 LK Wolfstein

*D-349 LK Kemnath

*D-350 LK Nabburg

*D-351 LK Oberviechtach

*D-352 LK Riedenberg

*D-352 LK Vohenstrauss

*D-353 LK Roding

*D-354 LK Waldmuenchen

*D-355 LK Beilngries

*D-356 LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.

*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

*D-375 LK Bogen

*D-377 LK Dingolfing

*D-378 LK Griesbach

*D-379 LK Kotzting

*D-380 LK Mainburg

*D-381 LK Mallersdorf

*D-382 LK Rottenburg

*D-383 LK Viechtach

*D-385 LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg

Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunherg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kehlheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenherg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Obernzell

43

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj R E Boyd

Maj H J Mrachek

Lt Col J R Hector
Capt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Crowley
Maj E O Carlson
Capt L R Mariels
Maj G E Griffin
Maj R O Woodward
Maj H A Hardt
Capt M Glossop
Capt A J Harwood
Capt G L Milner
Maj J A Wickham
Capt N Ugland

Lt Col G M Foster
Maj R B Swatash

Ist Lt G_L Thomas
Capt R N MeWhorter
Maj D L O’Roark
Maj I G Shackelford
Maj J Mulholland
Maj V M Corbin
Maj B B Coullahan
Maj L P Rhodes
Maj R W Hitchcock
Maj E Fichter

Capt A G Albert
Maj T R Coykendall
Maj J F Staudinger
Maj J C Robertson Jr
Capt C G Dansby
Maj J J Maher Jr
Capt E R Garrison
Capt G C Jones

Maj R E Levy

Maj J F Rey

Ist Lt K L Miller Jr

--- Page 45 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

Co E
*E-213 SK/LK Munich
*E-231 SK/LK Freising
*E-232 LK Miesbach
*E-233 LK Traunstein
*E-234 LK Altoetting
*E-235 SK/LK Rosenheim
*E-236 LK Garmisch-
Partenkirchen
*E-237 SK/LK Ingolstadt
*E-280 LK Erding
*E-281 LK Laufen
*E-282 LK Muhldorf
*E-283 LK Wasserburg
*E-284 LK Toelz
*E-285 LK Aibling
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*E-287 LK Lansdberg
¥E-288 LK Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 LK Starnberg
*E-290 LK Weilheim
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden
*E-361 LK Ebersberg
*E-362 LK Aichach
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-367 Dachau
*E-368 Schongau

Co G

*G-214 SK/LK Augsburg
*G-239 LK Dillingen
*G-240 LK Neu Ulm
*G-241 LK Sonthofen
*G-242 SK/LK Kempten
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth
*G-293 LK Gunzberg
*G-204 LK Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 LK Memmingen
*G-296 LK Mindeleheim
*G-297 LK Neuberg
*G-298 LK Nordlingen
*G-209 LK Fussen

*G-300 LK Krumbach
*G-369 LK Tllertissen
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren
*G-372 LK Wertingen
*G-373 LK Friedberg
*G-374 LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen
Wesermuende Detachment

Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Rosenheim
Garmisch

Ingolstadt
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz
Aibling
Fuerstenefeldbruck
Landsherg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen

Neu Ulm
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwoerth
Gunzber,

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kanfbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

LAND BREMEN
(APO 751)

Bremen
Wesermuende

BERLIN SECTOR
(APO 742-A)

Berlin

44

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING .OFFICER

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col J H Kelly

Lt Col John H Huckins
Capt W A Forys

Capt V L Thom

Capt C A Larimer

Maj Kenneth 'B Cassidy
Lt Col R T Shelby

Lt Col J A Crewe
Maj C A Brown
Capt C J Wardle
Maj J J Posten
Capt D Root

Maj A O Froede
Capt S J Kushner
Ist Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein
Maj H E Reed
Maj C E Carlsen
Capt M_ J Groves
Capt J L Ott

Maj W W Perham
Capt E J Pennetto
Maj E J Newmayer
Capt H J Bierman
Ist Lt J A Walker
Capt E E Bird

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R J Paul

Maj H E Howlett
Maj J E Rhea

Maj R E Wagner
Capt M G Kruglinski
Maj M G Norum
Capt S D Lubin

Ist Lt E C Paie

Capt L A Proper
Maj H M Sebastian
Maj B Peshmalyan
Capt J N Urtes

Capt H V_ Worthington
Capt F W Guzak
Maj S H Darragh
Capt J S Woodwart
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Mr T F Dunn
Lt Col L S Diggs

Col F L Howley