--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE OF US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

MARCH 23, 1948

KEY MG PERSONNEL

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

DISPLACED PERSONS—An_occu-
pant of the Dueppel Center displaced
persons camp in Berlin knits as her
companion looks on. An article on
the DP complexities of postwar
Europe is published on page 3 of
this issue, (Bowlds, OMGUS)

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest
organizations in the United States. The
Information Bulletin is distributed
without charge as a public service.

The editorial staff of the Information
Bulletin is a section of the Reports
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS. Mem-
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid,
editor; Henry S. Matteo, assistant
editor; Val Bowman, writer; Cathe-
rine Mary Sullivan, reporter. Its
office is located in the Reports Branch
Building, 20 Saargemuender Strasse,
Berlin-Dahlem, Its mailing address is:
Information Bulletin, Control Office
OMGUS, Berlin, Germany: APO 742,
US Army. Telephone numbers are
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227.

Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source cited
with the article.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No, 131 March 23, 1948

State Department Announces Policy
Displaced Persons

Streamlining OMGUS .

Decentralization of Government .
Czechoslovakia—A Cause for Hope
Editorial Opinion in German Press . .
Cities of the US Zone (First of two parts)
Occupation Activities .

Official Instructions

Key List of MG Personnel

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

INFORMATION
BULLETIN

we OF GS. bo

16
21
23
25

--- Page 5 ---
ST

state Department
Announces Policy

The Military Governor publishes a policy announced by the State
Department as follows:

On or about July 1, 1948, the Department of State in agreement with
the Department of the Army will assume responsibility for direction,
control and operation of Military Government in Germany, and in
assuming these functions the Department of State fully realizes that
it will necessarily rely heavily upon the civilian and military staffs
which have been such an effective agency in the implementation of our
occupation objectives in Germany.

Civilian personnel engaged in the functions involved on date of
transfer will become employees of the Department of State under the
existing civil service system without adverse change of grade, compen-
sation or other conditions of employment, Civil service regulations,
provision for retirement deductions and within-grade promotions will
remain unchanged. Accordingly, as a result of this transfer of functions,
these individuals employed by the Department of State will not be
adversely affected in their seniority rights, status, or pay. Military
personnel desiring to qualify for civilian positions will be afforded an
opportunity to do so.

As a result of changing conditions, reorganizations have been neces-
sary in the past and will probably be required from time to time in the
future. However, it will be the policy of the Department of State:

1. To initiate reorganizations as infrequently as possible and to
affect personnel as little as possible.

2. Within the civil service regulations, to continue competent per-
sonnel in their present grades as long as there are appropriate positions

and so long as satisfactory service is rendered. .

3. To consider for promotion present employees who are qualified
to perform more difficult tasks, before resorting to recruitment outside
the organization.

At such time as it is possible to furnish additional information regard-
ing the transfer of functions and personnel, further announcements
will be made.

ESI

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 6 ---
PDISPLACK

PERSONS

HE SITUATION of the United

Nations displaced persons and
refugees still in Germany, a tragic
reminder of the Nazi scheme of
forced labor and subjugation, is an-
other of the complexities of postwar
Europe. This sociological dilemma is
existent in the three Western Zones
of Germany and apparently is either
liquidated or not recognized in the
fourth zone.

As of Dec. 1, 1947, there remained
in the US occupation area in Ger-
many approximately 475,000 homeless
persons in this heterogeneous group,
the disposition of “which poses a
tremendous humanitarian and prac-
tical problem. The continued presence
of these persons constitutes another
economic problem of the occupation,
and a political question of many
implications on the scene of inter-
national affaires.

A group of Baltic displaced persons leave a train at Bremerhav

The majority of DP’s are in Ger-
many as a result of the Nazi labor
policy to exploit the manpower of
conquered countries in furtherance of
the master plan for world domination.
Millions of workers were transplanted
to the Reich to help it fight the war
of supply by replacing German
workers conscripted into the German
Army.

Some of these workers came to Ger-
many of their own volition. But the
majority came under conditions
ranging from persuasion to forcible
removal from their homelands, In any
case, the impetus was provided by
the Nazi plan to enslave.

Also included among the DP’s are
the survivors of the greatest crime
against humanity committed by the
Nazis—the concentration camp vic-
tims. Still others were prisoners of
war who were captured and im-

prisoned by the Germans while fight-
ing alongside Allied troops,

The US Army's direct contact with
DP’s began with D-Day in June, 1944.
As the Allied forces overran the
enemy, increasing numbers of DP’s
were uncovered until a total of ap-
proximately 8,000,000 persons had
passed from Nazi custody into Allied
hands in western Europe.

About 6,000,000 of them were re-
turned to their homelands in the
latter part of 1944 and the first seven
months of 1945. Approximately
688,000 more went home from July 13,
1945, to Dec. 1, 1947, in response to
intensive repatriation efforts.

The remainder, consisting of Es-
tonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish,
Ukrainian, Jewish, Yugoslav, and
stateless people, has not responded
to voluntary repatriation, They can-
not or will not return to their home-

en to board the US Army transport Gen-

eral Heintzelman for Australia. They came from the Diepholz processing camp in the British Zone, near
(Signal Corps photo)

Hanover.

--- Page 7 ---
lands for fear of persecution because
of race, religion, nationality or
political opinions.

NE OF THE major categories

receiving DP care is the Jewish
group. There are from 10,000 to 15,000
former concentration camp victims
remaining in United Nations dis-
placed persons assembly centers. In
addition, more than 100,000 came to
Germany during 1946, Most of these
were Polish Jews who had left Poland
for a variety of reasons—the loss of
homes, business, and relatives during
the war; the increased anti-semitism
encountered after the long Nazi oc-
cupation of their country; and the
tremendous surge of the Zionist
movement toward Palestine,

As early as 1943, Supreme Head-
quarters, Allied Expeditionary Forces,
was planning for the care of persons
after the liberation. Before the ces-
sation of hostilities, the assembly,
care, and maintenance of DP’s became
the mission of whole tactical units.
Providing the basic needs of shelter,
food, and clothing for millions of
liberated persons required energetic
organization and planning.

Simultaneously with the redeploy-
ment of the bulk of the US Army,
the United Nations Relief and Re-
habilitation Administration (UNRRA)
assumed the functions of operating
assembly centers, directing activities
of voluntary agencies, operating a
tracing bureau, and initiating arrange-
ments for the repatriation of DP's.

The Army retained the respon-
sibility for obtaining and delivering
necessary food, supplies and equip-
ment; for transporting DP’s and for
the provision to UNRRA of ad-
ministrative facilities. Thus UNRRA
furnished the operatienal personnel
for the care and maintenance of DP’s,
while the over-all responsibility,
support, and supervision remained in
military hands.

A second international agency
which assisted in the DP operation
was the Intergovernmental Committee
on Refugees (IGCR), founded in 1938.
In July, 1946, the IGCR expanded its
previous work with stateless persons
in assisting in resettlement of all
categories of DP’s.

In December, 1946 the United Na-
tions General Assembly approved
the constitution of a third agency

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Children at the Dueppel Center displaced persons camp in Berlin learn

folk dances.

to take over the combined func-
tions of UNRRA and IGCR in the
work with displaced persons—the
International Refugee Organization
(IRO) a body sponsored by UN
countries that are signatories to the
UN constitution, and supported by
the contributions of those countries.

The IRO constitution is to come
into force upon the full accession of
15 governments whose cumulative
financial contributions amount to not
less than 75 percent of the operational
budget. As these two stipulations
have not been completely met to
date, the Preparatory Commission
which was established to finalize the
IRO has been delegated authority by
the United Nations to operate as an
interim organization pending full
activation of IRO.

On July 1, 1947, the day after
UNRRA and IGCR phased out of the
picture, this interim agency, PCIRO,
under an agreement with the US Mili-
tary Governor, began the exercise of
major responsibility for the actual
care, maintenance, resettlement, and
repatriation of displaced persons in
the US occupation area. The Military
Governor, as the supreme zonal
authority, is responsible for the over-
all maintenance of law, order, security,
and economy, and offers such as-

4

(OMGUS photo)

sistance within his resources as does
not involve the use of appropriated
funds,

The US Government agreed to sup-
port PCIRO with the qualification
that the expense of the DP operation
in the US occupation area would be
borne by this new agency, and that
allocations previously carried in the
military budget for DP’s would be
eliminated.

It was originally intended that the
entire cost of caring for displaced
persons would be borne by the Ger-
mans, but the almost total break-
down of the German economy shifted
the financial burden to the American
taxpayer.

During the period of UNRRA's
participation, part of the subsistence
for the DP’s was made up from
available indigenous sources, and the
deficiencies were met by imported
food paid for from funds appropriated
to the Army by the US Government.

With special grants of extra
calories for workers, hospital patients,
adolescents, and expectant mothers,
the food supplied by the Army
amounted to an average of 2,425
calories per person per day. The
present UN DP normal consumer
ration is 2,000 calories, 450 calories

(Continued on Page 15)

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
HE PROCESS of streamlining the

US occupational administration
in Germany in preparation for the
assumption by the Department of State
on July 1 of the direction, control and
operation of Military Government
progressed this month with the crea-
tion of four advisory offices and two
divisions in OMGUS, the consolida-
tion and transfer of positions and per-
sonnel, and the continued study and
review of the organization of Military
Government to attain greater effici-
ency and economy.

The State Department, in anticipa-
tion of assuming the responsibility of
Military Government from the De-
partment of the Army, announced its
policy for retention of the services,
status and rights of the experienced
MG civilian personnel. The announce-
ment is published on page 2 of this
issue,

The recent changes in the organiza-
tional structure of Military Govern-
ment involved the transfer of the ad-
visory offices for economics, finance,
governmental administration, and
cultural affairs from the staff of the
Commander-in-Chief, European Com-
mand, to OMGUS, and the establish-
ment of divisions for property, and
for education and cultural relations
within OMGUS. With these changes,
five divisions—economics, finance, in-

Mr. Lawrence Wilkinson
Economics Adviser

MARCH 23, 1948

GU §

ternal affairs
prisoners of war and displaced per-
sons, and transport—were dissolved

and communications,

and their various responsibilities
transferred to other OMGUS units.

These changes were part of the pro-
gram. designed to consolidate occu-
pational activities in the fields of
economics and finance, and to separate
organizationally the policy -making
functions of the US occupation from
those functions which are operational
in character, namely the decarteliza-
tion, reparations, restitutions, and pro-
perty-control programs.

The changes also are closely relat-
ed to measures virtually completed
for the integration of the US and
British staffs of the Bipartite Control
Office in Frankfurt, and for the anti-
cipated reduction in occupational
functions at the German state level
as rapidly as competent and respon-
sible German agencies are able to
assume these important tasks.

NDER THIS streamlining policy,
observation and guidance to the
bizonal agencies, with respect to their
operations in the fields of economics,

Mr. Jack Bennett
Finance Adviser

5

industry, transportation and communi-
cations, will be the responsibility of
the Bipartite Control Office.

The formulation and development
of policy with respect to matters per-
taining to Germany as a whole will
continue to be determined as hereto-
fore by the Allied Control Council.
Participation of the US elements of
the ACA directorates is not effected
by the changes. Matters pertaining to
the joint economy of the combined
zones will be determined by the Bi-
partite Board.

The titles and positions of the units
of Military Government are shown in
the new chart on the inside of the In-
formation Bulletin’s front cover. The
Persons occupying the important posts
of Military Government, particularly
those involved in the recent changes,
are listed in Key MG Personnel,
published in this issue.

The Office of the Economics Ad-
viser, OMGUS, takes over the duties
of the former Officer of Economics
Adviser, CINCEUR, and the policy-
making functions formerly exercised
by the Economics Division. Specifi-

Dr. Hermann B. Wells
Acting Director, E&CR Division

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Phillips Hawkins
Director of Property Division

cally, these latter functions are con-
tained within its six groups food and
agriculture, industry, research, and
reports and statistics, communications
(formerly a branch of the IA&C Divi-
sion) and transport (formerly the
Transport Division).

Mr. Lawrence Wilkinson, former
director of the Economics Division,
heads the office as Economics Adviser
to the Military Governor and Deputy
Military Governor. His principal aides
are Dr, D. D. Humphrey, deputy ad-
viser; Dr. F, Kempner, special assistant
on economics procedures and con-
trols; Mr. F. S. Hannaman; special
assistant for policy coordination; Mr.
R. A. Ioannes, chief of the Food and
Agriculture Group; Mr. H. L. Berno,
chief of the Industry Group; Mr. E. H.
Merrill, chief of the Communications
Group; Mr. C, H, Nordstrom, chief of
the Research and Control Group; Col.
H. W. Holmer, chief of the Transport
Group, and Mr. Saul Nelson, chief of
the Reports and Statistics Group.

The operational functions of the
former Economics Division directly
concerned with the bizonal fusion be-
came part of BICO. Other operational
functions not immediately involved in
the bizonal organization became part
of the newly organized Property
Division.

HE OFFICE of Finance Adviser,
OMGUS, likewise took over the
duties of the Office of Finance Ad-
viser, CINCEUR, and the policy-mak-
ing functions of the former Finance
Division. Under it are the Foreign Ex-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Mr. Theodore H. Ball
Consultant for Property Division

change Group, International Finance
Policy Group, Central Bank Group,
Foreign Exchange Depository Group,
and Finance Intelligence Group.

Mr. Jack Bennett, who had been
CINCEUR finance adviser, heads the
new office. His chief assistant is Mr.
Jo Fisher Freeman, who also became
US member of the Joint Foreign Ex-
change Agency in Frankfurt. The
group chiefs are Mr, Judson C, Jones
of Foreign Exchange Policy, Mr. Wal-
ter Heller of Internal Finance Policy,
Mr. Henry C. Conrad of Central Bank,
Col. William G. Brey of Foreign Ex-
change Depository, and Mr. Saul
Kagan of Financial Intelligence.

As in the case of the OEA, the
operational functions of the OFA be-
came part of BICO.

The Education and Cultural Relations
Division took over the Education and
Religious Affairs Branches from the
former IA&C Division. The Cultural
Exchange and Group Activities Branch-
es were created, thus giving greater
importance to some of the other
activities of the E&RA Branch of the
TA&C Division.

Dr. Herman B. Wells, in addition to
his duties as adviser on cultural
affairs, was named acting director of
the E&CR Division. His deputy is Col.
Emil Lenzner. Dr. Richard T. Alex-
ander is chief of the Education Branch;
Dr. C. Arild Olsen, chief of the Re-
ligious Affairs Branch; Mr. Frank G.
Banta, chief of the Cultural Exchange
Branch, and Mr. Lawrence E. Norrie,
chief of the Group Activities Branch.

6

Mr. G. B. McKibbin
Governmental Administration Adviser

The Property Division is a new unit
which will include certain operational
functions of the former Economics
Division remaining outside the orbit
of BICO. These include external assets,
restitutions, monuments, fine arts,
archives, reparations, decartelization,
and property control.

R. PHILLIPS HAWKINS, who had

been deputy director of the Eco-
nomics Division, is director of the
division, Mr. T. H. Ball, who had been
director of the Finance Division, was
named special consultant to the Mili-
tary Governor and Deputy Military
Governor on matters pertaining to the
Property Division. Chiefs of its
branches are Mr. S. M. Rose, of Ex-
ternal Assets; Col. John H. Allen,
of Restitutions, Monuments, Fine Arts
and Archives; Mr. Richardson Bron-
son, of Decartelization, and Mr. E. F,
Hartzch, of Property Control.

The Civil Administration Division
assumed some of the operations from
IA&C Division, namely Public Safety
Branch, with Mr. T. E. Hall as chief;
Public Health Branch, with Col. M. T.
Kubin as chief, and Public Welfare
Branch, with Mrs. Mildred B. Smith
as chief. Also, the former PW&DP
Division has become the Displaced
Persons Branch, with Mr. L. G. Kelly
as chief.

Mr. George B. McKibbin, who was
director of the IA&C Division, became
adviser to the Military Governor and
Deputy Military Governor on govern-
mental administration.

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 10 ---
Bizonal Ordinances
On Food Approved

Two ordinances on the improved
collection and distribution of agri-
cultural products and food stocks
were approved by the Bizonal Econ-
omics Council and the Bipartite Con-
trol Office in Frankfurt.

The first ordinance, on collection
and delivery of agricultural produets,
provides for individual delivery
quotas for every agricultural enter-
prise in the Bizonal Area. Deliveries
exceeding the quota are to be reward-
ed with bonuses of special food allo-
cations, money, fodder and seed.

The ordinance also provides for
mandatory deliveries, and confiscation
in cases of violation or failure to meet
the quotas.

Quotas are to be set by the director
of the Bizonal Food Department in
agreement with the Land food mi-
nistries, and are broken up into a
basic and amended quota, the latter
to be set according to weather con-
ditions,

The second ordinance, the much-
discussed “pantry law,” requires reg-
istration of food stocks of all agri-
cultural and food enterprises, canteens,
restaurants and even households. How-
ever, households are required to list
only their flour and potato stocks ex-
ceeding authorized allocations.

Stocks illegally held will be made
available to the general public and no
proceedings will be instituted unless
the person or persons concerned fail
to report truthfully and in time.

| Rockwell Ends 11-Year Service

Col. John M. Raymond (left) presents a scroll signed by all members of

the Legal Division, OMGUS, to Mr. Alvin Rockwell, who has resigned
as director of the division and legal adviser to the Military Governor.
Col. Raymond has become acting director of the division. (PIO, OMGUS)

Mr. Alvin J. Rockwell has resigned as legal adviser to the Military
Governor, and director of the Legal Division, OMGUS. He intends to
return this month to the United States and private law practice. His

resignation brings to a close 11-year
career in Government service.

Col. John M. Raymond, of Boston,
is acting director of the Legal Division.

Mr. Rockwell came to Berlin in
September, 1945, as chief of the Le-
gal Advice Branch. In June, 1946, he
was appointed acting director of the

Police in US Zone Test Safety Plans

Many measures in the interest of
maintaining law and order have been
put into effect in all the Lands in the
US Zone.

A study of alert and riot plans was
made by the rural police headquarters
in Wuerttemberg-Baden. A drive was
put on in Stuttgart to encourage all
uniformed police to obtain a working
knowledge of English.

Three weekly road patrols were
initiated in Hesse by the rural police
to combat black market activities and
smuggling, police officials being as-

MARCH 23, 1948

signed to areas where they were not
known.

A “traffic education” week was
held in Bremen to reduce accidents.
The objective apparently was obtain-
ed, as 50 percent fewer traffic vio-
lations were reported in the next
week,

The Munich police department has
been testing two-way radio commu-
nication in vehicles. In order to com-
bat crime during the night, many large
city departments in Bavaria have used
the administrative police for patrol
duty to reinforce the regular police.

7

Legal Division, and, two months later,
director.

A native of Kalamazoo, Mich., Mr.
Rockwell was graduated from De
Pauw University and Harvard Law
School. After four years of private
practice in Boston, from 1933 to 1937,
he joined the Department of Justice in
Washington,

In 1943 he was named general
counsel of the National Labor Rela-
tions Board, a position he held until
his departure for Germany in 1945.

He will spend two months in Wash-
ington, D. C., before entering private
practice on the West Coast.

Mr. Rockwell's parents, Mr. and Mrs.
John S. Rockwell, live in Kalamazoo.

Journals for Veterinaries

Many current American scientific
journals are being made available to
German veterinaries, veterinary labo-
ratories and veterinary schools, to
help offset the lack of such publi-
cations during the war and to provide
current information,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
&

ISN

-:

sy

SS NS TIN ee
s WwW Ne N pees a \\

to
fe.

Ltt)
ve

tt

Z

NE of the basic tenets of US oc-

cupation policy is the decentral-
ization of government to the maxi-
mum degree consistent with modern
economic life, US policy insists on
a federal structure of German polit-
ical organization and a distribution
of powers between state and federal
governments which will guarantee a
proper balance of economic and polit-
ical forces.

The Potsdam Agreement adopted
the principle of decentralization of
government and the treatment of Ger-
many as an economic unit. The first
step in this direction was to be the
establishment of central German ad-
ministrative agencies. A coordinated
statement of plans for the establish-
ment of such agencies was prepared
on May 1, 1946, by US Military Gov-
ernment which has continued ‘to
adhere to the policy expressed
therein, (See Weekly Information
Bulletin, Issues No. 54 to 61 of August-
September, 1946, for full details of
this statement.)

While US Military Government
consistently demanded an_ early
establishment of these central agen-
cies, no agreement could be reached
at the quadripartite level, Reports
were prepared by the US Delegation
for the Moscow Conference of
Foreign Ministers in March and April,
1947, but, while the four powers
agreed that these agencies should be
established, there remained a wide
area of disagreement on their functions
and powers, and especially on the
relationship between the central
agencies and the various states.

Further proposals were worked out
and submitted at the Moscow Con-
ference on the establishment of a
German advisory council, which had
been suggested as early as June 1,
1946. Four-power agreement could
be reached only on certain phases
of the German advisory council and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

on ‘the provisional government which
was to be established thereafter.
Agreements and disagreements of the
Moscow Conference were analyzed
and new proposals were considered
by the Military Governor.

One proposal suggested a reorgani-
zation of German territory into states
of sufficient strength to maintain a
balanced distribution of powers in a
federal system as a basic condition
to the program of democratization
and decentralization.

Material for Decentralization
of Government was taken from
the Civil Administration Divi-
sion’s annex to US Military Gov-
ernment Report no. 30. An article
dealing with German constitu-
tions which also was based on
the CAD annex, was published
in issue no. 130 of the Infor-
mation Bulletin.

A review of various federal con-
stitutions including the German con-
stitutions of 1849, 1871 and 1919, and
the US, Canadian, Australian, USSR,
and Yugoslav constitutions, dealt with
the problem of distribution of power
between central and state govern-
ments. Other papers discussed the
establishment of a provisional Ger-
man central government and pre-
paration for the federal constitution
of Germany.

Quadripartite negotiations on the
establishment of central administrat-
ive agencies continued after the
Moscow Conference, and, on the
German side, various unsuccesful
attempts were made to have German
politicians and state officials meet
in an effort to bring about economic
and political unification of Germany.

While policies have been clarified
and disagreements more definitely

8

stated, no progress toward German
economic or political unity has been
made either among the occupying
powers and their delegates or
among the German parties and their
spokesmen,

However, in 1945 the groundwork
had been laid in the US Zone for the
growth of civil government at all
levels, and the forms of democratic
government were established. The
year 1947 saw the delegation of
increased responsibilities to the Ger-
mans, particularly in cohnection with
the economic merger of the US and
British Zones.

IACH STATE constitution guarant-

ees the right of local self-gov-
ernment in the municipalities and
counties, which administer their own
affairs under a basic municipal gov-
ernment law and a county government.
law which were enacted by state
governments appointed by Military
Government in November, 1945, and
February, 1946, respectively, These
laws prescribe a standard govern-
mental structure. consisting of a
local council elected by proportional
representation and an_ executive
elected by the council,

The county councellor, the highest
Official of the county government,
also carries out on behalf of the
state governments such functions as
do not fall under local _ self-
government.

Although it was expected that the
municipal and county government
laws would be redrafted after the
adoption of the state constitutions,
this had not yet been done, and the
articles of the constitutions dealing
with local self-government in the
municipalities and counties are still
to be implemented.

The positions of county councillors
and chief mayors remain anamalous,

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
for they are at the same time locally
elected officials and state function-
aries. The result is a lack of a clear
definition of responsibilities which is
detrimental to local self-government.

Furthermore, the state governments
have made provision for per capita
appropriations to municipalities and
counties, and, in addition, they reim-
burse them for certain expenditures.
However, the financial settlement
does not provide a clear-cut sepa-
ration between local expenditure
and expenditure incurred in the
exercise of state functions.

HE FIRST election laws of the

three states had provided a two-
year term fo all elected local govern-
ment officers who had been elected
in the first months of 1946, The
second local elections of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden were held in December,
1947. The recent election law pro-
vides for a maximum six-year term
of office, Elections in the other states
are expected to take place in April,
1948.

During 1947, associations of local
governments were reestabiished in
all states of the US Zone: Gemeinde-
tage, representing~the smaller com-
munities in rural counties; Land-
kreistage, representing the govern-
ments of rural counties; and Staedte-
tage of Stadteverbaende, representing
the governments of the cities.

The function of these associations
is to provide a means for exchange
of information and experience in
local government problems and to
promote the interests of local govern-
ment in connection with pending
state legislation on local  ad-
ministrative matters. The Staedtetag,
for instance, has proposed a draft of
a new municipal government law.

The associations of city govern-
ments of the three southern states
have joined with the city govern-
ments in the British Zone in estab-
lishing the Deutsche  Staedtetag,
which, in September, requested the
Allied Control Council to approve an
all-German conference to be held in
Berlin for the discussion of urgent
municipal problems, But the council
could not agree to approve this
meeting,

The constitutions of all four states
Provide for governments of a par-

MARCH 23, 1948

liamentary type elected by propor-
tional representation. These govern-
ments consist of a unicameral legis-
lature in Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
and Bremen, and a bicameral legis-
lature in Bavaria.

At the head of each state is a
minister-president, or in the case of
Bremen, president of the senate,
elected by and (except in Bavaria)
subject to the confidence of the
legislature. In the three southern
states he is assisted by a cabinet
named by the minister-president and
confirmed by the legislature. In
Bremen, this cabinet is called a
senate and all members are elected
by the legislature.

The second chamber, also called
the senate, is provided for in the
Bavarian constitution consisting of
representatives elected by various
vocational groups.

ACH CONSTITUTION provides

for an independant judiciary
and a supreme court with power to
render final decisions on questions
of constitutionality. The supreme, or
constitutional, court is organized
variously in the four states. Thus far
only Bavaria has implemented sup-
reme, or constitutional, court.

German travelers receive travel and

passengers.

9

The cabinets formed under the
constitutions in December, 1946, and
January, 1947, have shown a great
deal of stability. Changes have oc-
curred in only one cabinet. In Septem-
ber the Social Democratic Party
members withdrew from the Bavarian
government, and the cabinet had to
be re-formed. A few minor changes,
however, have occurred both in Hesse
and in Wuerttemberg-Baden,

An MG directive of September 30,
1946, advised military and civil
authorities that ratification of the
constitutions would mark the be-
ginning of a new period in the
relationship between military and
civil government, but that specific
limited restrictions would continue
to be imposed upon the civil govern-
ments, Functions of Military Govern-
ment were limited to:

1. Observation, inspection, report-
ing, and advising.

2. Disapproval of only such econ-
omic, social, political, and govern-
mental activities as it may find to
violate clearly the objectives of US
occupation policy.

3. Removal of public officials
whose public activities are in vio-
lation of these objectives.

identification documents from
Hessian border police as they prepare to board a plane at the Rhine
Main airport on the first postwar Frankfurt-Berlin run open to German

(PIO, OMGH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
4. The reestablishment of full MG
controls in any area in the US Zone
where it had become necessary to
safeguard MG objectives.

5. Military Government courts.

6 Direct administration of such
activities as demilitarization and
reparations which cannot be assumed
entirely by German civil govern-
mental agencies but which are ne-
cessitated by international agree-
ments, quadripartite action, or US
occupation policy.

In each regional Office of Military
Government an organization has been
created to review state legislation
for MG approval. A _ Legislation
Review Board has been established
with the function of reviewing legis-
lation proposed by the Council of
States in the US Zone and the Bizonal
Economic Council.

The Board also reviews state legis-
lation on which state Military
Government has taken adverse action
or to which a serious objection has
been raised, The veto power over
state legislation is exercised only
when MG policy has been clearly
violated.

HE ORGANIZATION and func-

tions of the Zone’s Council of
States, which had been established
in October, 1945, as the coordinating
body composed of the ministers-
president, required adjustment and
modification both after the establish-
ment of constitutionally elected and
politically responsible state govern-
ments and of the bizonal agencies,

To meet the first situation, . the
council has created, with MG ap-
proval, an Advisory Parliamentary
Council consisting of 24 members,
seven each from the legislatures of
the southern German states and three
from the Bremen legislature. This
group meets with the Council of
States and advises them on all draft
laws, decrees, or Control Council
measures on the agenda.

As a result of the creation of the
bizonal agencies, the administrative
staff of the Council of States has
been diminished by the transfer of
responsibilities in the field of posts
and telecommunications, transpor-
tation, food and agriculture, and
price control. It continues to function,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dr. Johannes Binkowski (left) receives a license to publish the Schwae-
bische Post at Aalen, Wuerttemberg. Standing in center is an interpreter.
Seated are (left to right) Joseph L. Dees, chief of the Press Control

Branch, ICD,

MG Director of Wuerttemberg-Baden.
newspaper licensed in the US Zone.

however, as the coordinating body
of the four states of the US Zone.

After the original bizonal organi-
zation agreed upon between British
and US Military Governments in
September, 1946, had been in operation
for approximately six months, it was
decided to reorganize the system and
to delegate increased responsibility
to the Germans. This revision took
place by proclamation of the US and
British Military Governments on
May 29, 1947.

The Bipartite Board, consisting of
the Military Governors of the two
zones, was continued and a Bipartite
Control Office was established in
Frankfurt, headed jointly by two
chairmen, one representing British
Military Government and the other
US Military Government. This Bi-
partite Control Office has been
granted broad powers under the
direct command of the Bipartite
Board.

It exercises maximum authority in
making decisions, and it is the only
US-UK agency that deals officially
with the German bizonal organization.
The US-UK chairmen of the Bipartite
Control Office are assisted by the
US-UK functional offices, which

10

in Wuerttemberg - Baden,

and Charles M. LaFollette,
The Post is the 50th German

(DENA-Bild)

maintain technical liaison with the
chiefs of the functional divisions of
US and British Military Governments,

HE GERMAN bizonal organization,

under the agreement of May 29,
1947, consisted of an Economic Coun-
cil, an Executive Committee, and a
number of executive directors who
head the several bizonal functional
departments. The Economic Council
comprised 52 members elected by the
legislatures of the various states in
proportion to the division of party
strength in each state and in the
ratio of one member for each 750,000
of population.

While the Economic Council re-
presented the equivalent of a par-
liament, though its authority was
limited to economic problems, the
Executive Committee, composed of
one representative from each state
appointed by the state government,
was intended to be the full-time
executive agency of the bizonal
organization.

The executive directors, appointed
by the Economic Council from nomi-
nations made by the Executive Com-
mittee and subject to removal by the

(Continued on Page 20)

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
Czechoslovakia — A Cause for Hope

HE RECENT unhappy events in

Czechoslovakia present us, pa-
radoxically, with a cause for hope,
a pattern for courage. The Czech
people have lost a government of
their own choice, but they have not
lost the democracy that was in them.
As you know, millions of Germans
held on to their faith in the dignity
of the human being long after Hitler
denied them that dignity, In the same
way there are millions of Czechs
who remain loyal democrats today,
and who will fight everlastingly back
against this new effort to destroy the
free democratic institutions they have
so laboriously carved out of their
hardships during two world wars,

The Communists, like any people
carried along on a tide of belief that
the state, and the state alone, is
entitled to authority over the lives
and thoughts of people, forget some
basic things. The Communists, like
the Nazis, forget that eventually
every act of force breeds a counter-
force that one day will be active.
The Communists forget that their
every move to snatch from the
common man his right to a life of
his own design will drive that man
into a brotherhood with his fellows
dedicated to regain that right for
himself and his fellowship in de-
mocracy.

That fact was established among
men in Germany just 100 years ago,
when German liberals rose against
the monarchical tyranny that frustrat-
ed their dawning sense of the po-
litical rights of man, In 1848 there
were strong liberal forces in Ger-
many that still survive those terrible
experiences, In 1948 there are liberal
forces in Czechoslovakia that will
survive difficult ordeals. That sur-
vival is not reckoned with in the
Communist plan by which Czecho-
slovakia was recently taken,

What the new, totalitarian forms
of aggression against man in the 20th
Century are, the western democracies
were slow to grasp. It took the de-
mocratic world too long to com-
prehend the true international mean-
ing of Hitler's imperialism. When the
western democracies did, indeed and

MARCH 23, 1948

By Richard M. Scammon

Chief, Elections and Political Parties
Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS

at last, realize that Hitler was driv-
ing western civilization toward a new
chaos, it took action that was swift
and decisive, Pacific nations that had

no arms and no armies, created arms’

and trained soldiers to use them.
Hitler was prevented from pushing
the Western world into the abyss of
irrevocable destruction.

OVERNMENTS of the western
democracies were slow, indéed,
in their understanding of what tota-
litarianism meant, whether it carried

The Czech people have lost a
government of their own choice,
but they have not lost the dem-
ocracy that was in them. So
stated Richard M. Scammon,
chief of the Elections and polit-
ical Parties Branch, Civil Admi-
nistration, OMGUS, in a radio
broadcast to the German people.
Mr. Scammon spoke from Berlin
March 4 in the 16th of a weekly
series of MG radio talks.

the Fascist, or the Nazi, or the Com-
munist label. This time we can re-
cognize the signs without hestitation.
The western world has begun to take
action, now, against a broader
disaster. A new spirit of cooperation
is emerging in Washington, in Paris,
in London, in the Hague, and in the
other capitals of the 16 nations that
have proposed to join their energies
and their resources in a mighty effort.

This is proposed as the mightiest
effort ever made, short of the co-
operative effort that goes into fighting
a war. It is an effort for peace, not
for war; for construction, not for de-
struction; for strength without the
misuse of power; for freedom from
fear that is not expressed in violence.

Proposals have been made for the
collaboration of free peoples, whose
combined strength will be greater

11

than the strength of any bloc arti-
ficially created by imperialist mil-
itarism or political trickery, In the
end such unity will be stronger be-
cause it will rest on the will of free
peoples, than any such blocs as may
be forged by the temporary sub-
jugation of the Czechs or of those
other nations now suffering under the
indignities of minority dictatorships.

The economic and spiritual recovery
of western Europe now is the only
real answer to the tactics that have
succeeded in Czechoslovakia. Those
same tactics failed in France, where
there was also a considerable Com-
munist minority. They failed because
the French people rejected a system
that would limit their individual lib-
erties. Those same tactics failed in
Italy, where there is also a consider-
able Communist minority because
the Italians, having once suffered the
indignities of dictatorship, want no
more of it.

These two more fortunate countries,
France and Italy, were able to exer-
cise their popular volitions, unlike
the Czechs and the Slovaks and those
other people of central Europe, be-
cause they were under neither mili-
tary, nor economic, nor political
threat from without. These western
powers were free to make their own
decisions unlike the Czechs, who
were ordered, under threats not hard
to imagine, to withdraw from the
Paris conferences on European re-
covery, They decided that their
destinies lay in the direction of free-
dom and economic cooperation,

HY DID THE Czech democracy
fall when the others did not?
There were three cardinal reasons:
military encirclement, political infil-
tration, and economic isolation from
the resources of the West. These
three causes were compounded. The
deadly political climate they created
in Czechoslovakia differed slightly
from that which in the last three
years has become so dismally familiar
to the people of eastern Europe.
But to find the pattern, the tech-
nique, for bringing about the fall of
Czechoslovakia, you have only to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
look back to the early days of 1933
and the seizure of power by the
Nazis here in Germany.

The circumstances are very similar.
Germany had a political party com-
mitted to dictatorship and threatened
with defeat by the democratic forces
in the next election. The Nazi party
knew, from the heavy losses it had
suffered in the Reichstag elections of
November, 1932, that it would be cut
down still further by the good sense
of the German people.

The same held true this year in
Czechoslovakia. There were the same
signs that the new fascism, like the
old, was losing even a part of the
minority support it had controlled,
and that the next democratic
elections would end its lingering
hopes of winning a majority of the
people to the support of totalitar-
ianism,

But totalitarians in both countries,
then and now, had temporary control
of the police and the army. Moderate
groups, reluctant to believe the ex-
tremes to which the seekers of power
would go, had unwisely cooperated
to the extent of letting these all-im-
portant agencies of force slip from
their grasp.

As a result, it was possible in both
countries, then, in 1933, and now, in
1948, to govern the people without
the people's representatives, In Berlin
it was by decree. In Prague it is by
postponing the meeting of Parliament.
In the intervening time the totali-
tarians—Fascist and Communist—
hauled out the oldest trick in the
political world—the shabby, time-
worn plot. Here in Germany the
Reichstag deliberately was burned by
the Nazis; in Czechslovakia the Com-
munists reported the discovery of a
so-called “reactionary plot against
the people”.

N GERMANY the new elections of

March, 1933, could thus be held in
an atmosphere of fire and compulsion,
with the opposition limited in their
effective ability to fight back against
the power-hungry architects of dic-
tatorship. Even so, it was necessary
to unseat many delegates and to
browbeat others to bring Nazism into
full power.

Only in one respect does the ex-
perience in Czechoslovakia differ

INFORMATION BULLETIN

from the German pattern: there full
power had already been seized, and
the suppression of democratic po-
litical parties is already under way,
before the new elections can take
place and as a preparation for the
perversion of the ballot.

It is clear that these elections in
Czechoslovakia will be held, and that
the red Fascists, like their brown
brothers, will announce an_ over-
whelming victory. All the tarnished
old trappings of “national unity” will
be resurrected and paraded before a
terrorized population that knows that
the words “national unity’ means, to
the Communists, the unity of the
graveyard and the concentration camp.

The lesson of Czechoslovakia is an
obvious one: that there can be no
compromise with totalitarianism, no
compromise with those who seek to
destroy the very democracy they
pretend to defend. Neither the
Fascists nor the Communists know
the meaning of the word “demo-
cracy”. Neither the brown nor the
red dictator has ever triumphed
through the will of the people, nor
can they do so as long as the de-
mocratic forces of society resist them,

It is true the lines are now po-
litically drawn between two systems
of government. For no longer does
Czechoslovakia stand to the east of
that geographic line as an island of
democracy in a sea of red absolutism.

UT LET NO ONE conclude that
this line must mean the per
manent division of the world, or of
Germany which it crosses. The end of
Nazi totalitarianism began when Hit-
ler seized Czechoslovakia, The end
of the westward advance of Com-
munist totalitarianism may well be—
indeed must be—Czechoslovakia. For
European cultural and economic re-
covery will reach to that new
borderline, with all resources of the
western world, and look across it.
Not only is the door open for the
hoped-for unification of Germany,
but the natural and historical inter-
dependence between the western and
the eastern parts of Europe will
irresistibly break through such false
and artificial political barriers.
Gradually the goods and services
needed on either side of the line
from the other will flow across with

12

quickening movement. For not even
the most cynical government to the
East would be so stupid as to deny
itself the economic advantages—yes,
the economic necessities—of trade
with the West.

This will become an increasing
compulsion upon the East as the vast
productive capacity of the West is
tapped, In the process of economic
contact through the iron curtain the
spiritual allies of the West among
the masses of the unwilling totalitarian
countries will gain strength, and
resistance will be kept alive, and
increasingly active.

Today's tragedy of Prague is tomor-
tow’s triumph of democracy, as
surely and certainly as the tragedy
of Munich 10 years ago sounded the
signal of awakening and attack against
the menace of Hitlerism.

Travel Abroad Approved

The Berlin Branch of the Joint Ex-
port-Import Agency has approved ap-
plications for 24 Berlin businessmen
to travel abroad, under a program
initiated in the latter part of 1947.

These representatives have con-
ducted or will conduct negotiations in
England, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Switzerland, Italy, Denmark, Norway,
and Sweden.

The fields represented include radio
and tubes; batteries; textiles; designs
for cretonne and wall paper; engineer- :
ing advice in the operation of
sulphuric acid plants; construction of
plants; paper working machines; office
machines; special processing of wood
scraps into a hard plastic, and con-
struction of special kilns for processing
slate and shale into building material.

Reichspost Survey Made

In view of the urgent need for
additional building space to accommo-
date expanding Reichspost services,
the Bizonal Department of Posts and
Telecommunications has completed
a survey of all Reichspost buildings
and real property under. requisition
by the occupational forces and by
Germans other than Reichspost per-
sonnel, This information will be used
as the basis for releasing the maximum
number of these properties.

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 16 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“_ GERMAN PRES

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) pointed
out that the 1846 revolutionary move-
ment contains lessons applicable
today, especially as regards freedom
of the press:

“Article 4 of the constitution pro-
mulgated by the National Assembly
stated that “freedom of the press may
in no circumstances be suspended or
abrogated.” Just as the reaction that
followed destroyed this fundamental
right, so today attempts are again
being made to bend or break this
still tender plant. For instance, in
Rheinland-Pfalz, the sensitive Staats-
ministerium has just excluded the
“Rhein Zeitung" from press confer-
ences because it felt itself attacked
by an article in that paper. Such anti-
democratic pedantry is regrettably
not an isolated case... . Restriction
of press freedom in modern history
has always been the forerunner to
cutting down of the rights of the
people .... We owe it to the living
memory of the 1848 revolution to
resist this reactionary movement
vigorously and in time.”

Schaeffer Election

The chief editor of the Passauer
Neue Presse enthusiastically supported
the election of Dr. Fritz Schaeffer
as CSU chairman in Upper Bavaria.
He said:

“The election is a great political
event, not so much in itself as for
the consequences which will follow...
Smart men have recognized that the
people are in favor of the “Bayern-
partei.” The future direction of the
CSU now will not be decided by
state convention but from the grass
roots in the district conventions. Not
only Upper Bavaria but also Swabia
and Lower Bavaria stand behind
Schaeffer. If the state chairman,
Joseph Mueller, cannot come to an
agreement with him he will suffer
defeat, or the CSU will be split...."

Fraenkischer Tag (Bamberg) could
not see any other outcome of the

MARCH 23, 1948

Freedom of the Press is Defended

Schaeffer-Mueller feud than a splitting
of CSU in two, with a merger of one
of its wings with “Bayernpartei.” The
paper added:

“Would that be so terrible? A big
party does not weaken itself by a
clear separation when it suffers under
the rivalry of two, three or more
wings. The inner tensions impede
any big political action. After aclean
separation one can again become a
partner in many questions, and in
those that caused the separation one
can look around for other partners.
The greater freedom of action that
would thereby be achieved would be
good medicine against stagnation in
the state legislature”.

France and Germany

Sueddeutsche Allgemeine (Pforz-
heim) pointed out that a future
Franco-German war is almost incon-
ceivable:

“The world today is split into two
gigantic camps .... If war should
come, it will be a global war; fronts
would reach from pole to pole. A
“private German-French war would
be an absolute impossibility in the
day of the atom bomb, rocket weapons
and jet planes .... France represents
Europe’s ancient culture. Since Ger-
many has, through its own actions,
lost its claim to the spiritual leader-
ship of Europe, it is up to France to
undertake it... But to take advantage

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not nec-
essarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

13

of this opportunity, Fra

eé must go
the way of European cooperation....”

The Frankenpost (Hof) pleaded for

a German Ruhr. It said:

“French pressure to deprive Ger-
many of power over the Ruhr is
based on the desire for security....
Security and world peace cannot be
endangered by the present diminished
and powerless Germany. Peace can
only be secured by General disarma-
ment and its control by the United
Nations, to which one day Germany
must also belong.... We cannot stand
starvation any longer... We finally
want to be again allowed to use our
natural resoures and our talents....
We want to build neither cannons
nor bombers but locomotives and
ploughs for our own use to sell them
to countries which can sell us bread,
and to pay reparations as far as can
be humanely justified....”

Direct Provocation

Licensee Arno Rudert wrote in the
Frankfurter Rundschau that the nomi-
nation of Johannes Semler to the
Bizonal Economics Council, after he
was dismissed by the Military Gover-
nors of the US and British Zones as
executive director of the Bizonal
Economics Department, was a direct
provocation against Military Govern-
ment. Rudert said MG's action was
fully justified and desirable.

“This man was impossible, and the
CSU endeavors to give satisfaction
not to MG but to Herr Dr. Semler...
No German politician should deceive
himself—German development remains
under the control of the occupation
powers, and this control is not
merely theoretical ... we only wish
that there were also a sharp German
control over certain suspicious Ger-
man elements. German democracy
would pay dearly if MG did not to-
day protect it against enemies in its
own camp...”

Niederbayerische Nachrichten (Strau-
bing) commented on the US Military
Governor's and CSU's actions in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
regard to the Semler election, in a
fashion typical for the Bavarian press
in this case. The article said:

“Non objective criticism of the oc-
cupation powers is forbidden ...
Nevertheless, every one knows that
criticism in many places is needed.
That is especially so in the field of
economics. However, as any school-
boy can tell, the Allies in their
occupation policy are not primarily
concerned with the well-being of the
German people...”

Muenchner Merkur expressed re-
gret that the CSU should have in-
sisted on the election of Semler to
the Bizonal Council, but blamed
equally the egotism of German party
politicians and “an occupation policy
that naturally is not free from
mistakes." The paper added: “From
the German point of view the de-
cision of the Military Governor
(deposing Semler) was regrettable,
because it naturally strengthened the
feeling in Germany that the young
democracy is only pretense, The
result of this feeling is that radicalism
is increasing among us.

“Nobody can remain blind to the
fact that the policies of the Oc-
cupation Powers show a slow but
continuous change.”

Nazi ‘Trial’ Film

The Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel)
reported on the showing of the Nazi
film depicting the trial of the July 20,
1944, conspirators against Hitler, with
a lecture by Press Officer George
S.Martin of Nuremberg. The paper
added:

“Even the most deluded adherents
of the Hitler regime probably felt
knocked cold as they became wit-
nesses of this most shameful self-
revelation of “justice'’ as practiced
against the men of July 20... A
strong democracy is based on the
feeling for justice of a people,
but evidently this lesson was
not understood by all those present
at the film showing, because there
were quite a few pointless, not to
say crafty, questions asked in the
discussion."

Nevertheless, the demand for ad-
missions was strong enough to call
for a repeat performance this month.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Backs Trizone Plan

Offenbach Post voiced a plea to
France for cooperation in establishing
a trizonal setup with the US and
British Zones.

“For the past hundred years a
Franco-German war has occurred al-
most every generation.... We want
to and must contribute an essential
part to the founding of a better Europe,
in agreement, with our French neigh-
bor.... We believe life itself . is
stronger than empty phrases, than
contractual alliances, than French or
German fortifications .... Properly fed
German men and women, assured of
a dignified national existence, are the
best guarantee for a peaceful, de-
mocratic Europe. The annexation of
the French Zone to the other two
West zones is one of the most im-
portant requisites for such a _ con-
dition... The founding of the Trizone
would signify that France accepts our
proffered hand."

Registration Halted

Attempts by the Ministry of Culture
in Land Hesse to institute a procedure
whereby artistic personnel would be
required to register with the Hesse
labor office after proof of political and
artistic qualification, were halted by
Military Government on the ground

that since Military Government itself
had abandoned the registration of per-
sons employed in the theater and ~
music field no effort should be made
to hamper the democratization of the —
theater and its related arts.

Industry Improves

Industry in the US Zone in 1947
operated at 46 percent of the level
of 1936 as compared with 37 percent
in 1946, an increase of almost one-
fourth. There were advances in almost
all industry groups.

Declines were registered in only
three fields: glass, which dropped 11
percent from the 1946 level; chemi-
cals, which declined nine percent;
and machinery, which was two per-
cent lower.

The largest increases were in the
ceramics group which jumped from
33 percent in 1946 to 80 percent of
the 1936 average in 1947. Vehicle
output more than doubled to stand
at about 15 percent of 1936 production,
Electrical equipment registered a gain
of four-fifths to 65 percent. Textiles
rose from 24 to 39 percent.

The basic iron and steel industry
rose more than half from 35 to 54
percent. Rubber gained one-third;
mining was up more than one-fourth,
— Military Governor's Report No. 30.

(OMGH PIO photo)

Dr. James R. Newman (leit), Director of the Hesse Office of Military
Government, confers with Catholic Bishop Ferdinand Dierichs of Lim-
burg, at a meeting of field MG and German officials held at Limburg,

14

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
(Continued from Page 4)
Displaced Persons

over the normal consumer ration for
this zone.

Since July 1, PCIRO has reim-
bursed the US government for the
cost of all food supplied DP’s above
the level of the indigenously pro-
duced food distributed to the German
population.

In line with an economy move that
went into effect on Oct. 1, 1947, most
of the DP ration is now drawn from
the German economy. Actually, all
of this food is drawn from the Ger-
man pooled resources, which include
both indigenous and imported items,
and that which is in excess of the
indigenous production level is re-
placed in kind to the German
economy by PCIRO. Thus the DP’s
receive a quantitative but not a
qualitative advantage over the Ger-
man population.

ITH THE limited PCIRO budget,

it has become necessary for
assembly centers to become in-
creasingly self-administered. There
are many skills, trades, and pro-
fessions among displaced persons;
and through utilizing the skilled, and
training the potential, the internal
operation of assembly centers has
passed almost completely to the DP’s
themselves,

Under the supervision of seven
PCIRO area teams, displaced persons
in the US Zone are utilized in ad-
ministrative, clerical and stenographic
capacities, The doctors and nurses
in the hospitals and the teachers in
the assembly center schools are
capable, trained persons from the DP
population, Law and order within the
assembly centers is maintained by
DP policemen, who are trained by
Army personnel and supervised by
PCIRO with the assistance of mili-
tary DP officers.

Including those employed in the
camp administration, the majority of
the employable DP's are engaged in
Some productive activity. This also
include Military Government services
paid for on the burgermeister payroll,
employment by the Army, employ-
ment in the German industry, and
self-employment,

The shortage of works projects
situated near the large camps, the

MARCH 23, 1948

Mealtime at Dueppel Center displaced persons camp in Berlin.
(OMGUS photo)

lack of transportation from the more
isolated camps to jobs, the continuing
antagonisms between Germans and
DP’s, and the necessity of paying
displaced persons with Reichsmarks,
for which relatively little can be
bought, are limiting factors affecting
the work program for displaced per-
sons.

HE DISPLACED persons situation

will not be solved by providing
indefinitely for their care and main-
tenance. The problem must be solved
by returning them to their homelands
or by finding new homes for them.

Voluntary repatriation, which ac-
counted for the mass movements to
the countries of Western Europe and
to the USSR in the months imme-
diately following VE-Day, has
dwindled to an almost negligible
amount in the past few months.

The vast majority of DP’s remaining
object to returning to homelands gov-
erned by a power whose program
is alien to their political or religious
beliefs. Prospects for repatriation in
the future indicate this is not the
solution to the situation,

Emphasis is now being placed on
resettlement; and although the PCIRO
programs now in operation are effec-
tive in a limited degree, more con-
crete plans of a wider scope are
required. Currently, resettlement pro-

15

grams

to Belgium, USA (limited),
France,

Canada, Paraguay, Nether-
lands, Venezuela, Brazil ‘and some 32
countries with lesser programs are in
effect,

Since the displaced persons pro-
gram can be solved only by repa-
triation or resettlement, and exploi-
tation of the former is virtually ex-
hausted, it becomes more apparent
that:

1. An energetic, effective resettle-
ment program on an_ international
basis should be forthcoming.

2. Resettlement and reestablishment
of refugees and displaced persons
should be contemplated only in cases
indicated clearly in the IRO
stitution.

con-

3. Genuine refugees and displaced
persons, until such time as their re-
patriation or resettlement and reestab-
lishment is effectively completed,
should be protected in their tights
and legitimate interests; should re-
ceive care and assistance, as far as
possible; should be put to useful
employment in order to avoid the
evil and anti-social consequences of
continued idleness,

4, The expenses of repatriation to
the extent practicable should be
charged to Germany for persons dis-
placed from countries occupied by it.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
ERMANY CANNOT be known or

understood unless Berlin and
Munich, Frankfurt and Hamburg, Bonn
and Leipzig are known and understood.
The history of Germany is the historv
of her cities.

The story of these cities goes back
to Europe's earliest written records.

The Romans battled the early bar-
baric German tribes and fought their
way across the Rhine to set up an
occupation army and to build a line
of defense across Germany from the
Rhine near Coblenz to the Danube
near Regensburg. This first attempt to
civilize and occupy Germany lasted
almost 200 years, and failed.

The new Church fared better. Some
of the German states were christian-
ized under Clovis, Frankish king, in
the 5th century. In the 8th century,
King Charlemagne, known in Germany
as Karl der Grosse, brought Italy,
France and Germany within one bound-
ary to form a new western empire.

That empire was divided and sub-
divided among his descendants until
Germany—or “the Germanics” as it
was known—was made up of a group
of many feudal sovereignties. Each
separated from the others by deep-
seated differences, each ruled by its
own Germanic prince, these sover-
eignties quarreled constantly among
themselves and threatened to split the
empire,

Some German cities, like Bamberg
on the Regnitz River, had started
centuries earlier as river camp towns
and the home of simple fishermen.
Others got their start as headquarters
towns of early feudal princes. About
the 8th century the cities began to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

move eastward, taking along the bish-
ops and lords who ruled them; and
by the 10th and 11th centuries new

Cities of the US Zone was
adapted from an article which
appeared in the Troop I&E
Bulletin, a weekly published by
the US Army's Troop Education
and Information Service, Because
of its length, the article has been
divided into two parts. The sec-
ond part will be published in
issue No. 132 of the Information
Bulletin dated April 6.

sizable communities, such as Wuerz-
burg, had developed around the cas-
tles of these potentates. These com-

Brandenburg Gate, Berlin, as it appeared before the war.

16

S é

munities grew up within the confines
of a moat and protecting walls, each
with a main street that led through a
central market place.

Merchants settled in the areas and
new markets were established, as at
Frankfurt. Then towns began to spring
up along heavily-traveled trade
routes, as did Nuremberg. In the 12th
and 13th centuries the Hanseatic port
towns of the north became masters of
the sea. Germany's cities had become
an important and powerful force in
German and European history.

FTER THE 14th century, few new
towns were established. Excep-
tions were mining settlements and a
few resident towns, such as Karlsruhe,
Mannheim and _ Ludwigsburg, laid
down in open land by order of a
reigning prince,
In the 16th century Martin Luther
began the great revolt against the

Hane

(Archives)

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 20 ---
Two cities of prewar Germany. On the left, Stachus street in Munich.
On the right, North German Lioyd’s administration building in Bremen.

Church of Rome, called the Refor-
mation, which resulted in Protestant-
ism and eventually became one of the
causes of the Thirty Years’ War. This
war, or series of wars, embroiling
most of Europe but fought largely in
Germany, cost that country enormous
territorial losses and turned a third of
her cultivated land into wilderness.

Between 1618 and the Peace of
Westphalia in 1648, Germany's popu-
lation dropped from 30,000,000 to
12,000,000. Many localities suffered so
terribly that it took more than two
centuries for them to get back to
where they had stood in 1600.

The old Holy Roman Empire virtu-
ally ceased to exist. Germany became
a loose federation of 300-odd princi-
Palities and free (self-ruling) cities. Re-
unification began in the 18th century
under Frederick the Great; it advanc-
ed after Prussia and Austria had allied
themselves with Britain and Russia to
defeat Napoleon I. Germany became
a federation of 39 sovereign states.

N 1864 BISMARCK began his series

of cleverly-managed, 18th century-
style wars. Prussia invaded Denmark
and Austria within two years; in 1870,
together with the other German states,
she invaded France. After imposing
humiliating terms on France in the
Treaty of Frankfurt, Bismarck found-
ed the new German Empire by crown-
ing Prussia’s William I as Emperor in
a ceremony held in Versailles.

The end of World War I saw Ger-
many with her first republican govern-
ment and not much experience in
self-rule to help her. There were in-

MARCH 23, 1948

flation, hunger and political unrest.
Communist uprisings were put down
in Berlin, Munich, Bremen, the Ruhr
and Halle. An era of comparative
prosperity and international goodwill
toward Germany was followed by the
world-wide economic collapse of 1929.
Hitler's Nazis took power in 1933 and
Germany's quaint old cities were be-
decked with Nazi flags and filled with
marching SS men. Ten years later they
were key points in Hitler's Fortress
Europe.

N 1942, IN the third year of the war,

the heavy bombings of Germany's
cities began one by one. In the next
three years they were bombed into
ruins.

In 1939 Germany had 68 cities with
more than 100,000 population and 47
more with a population between 50,000
and 100,000. Today only three major
German cities remain intact; Celle and
Flensburg in the British Zone and
Heidelberg in the US Zone. A few
others, like Luebeck in the British
Zone, Bamberg in the US Zone and
Schwerin in the Soviet Zone, are in
good shape. Otherwise all Germany's
sizable cities lie in various degrees of
ruin.

Stuttgart: City of Hills

Stuttgart burned for two weeks in
the fall of 1944. Allied bombers had
done the job they had to do. When
the fire was finally brought under
control, the heart of the city was
destroyed.

Since the beginning of the occupa-
tion Stuttgart has been outstanding

17

(Archives)

among the cities of Germany for its
progress in rebuilding its streets,
homes and commercial buildings.
Much of the debris has been cleared.
Its heavy industries such as Bosch
(electrical equipment) and Junkers
(heating equipment) are producing
again. Its half million people are
active and industrious.

The monthly meetings of the US
Zone's Council of States (Laenderrat)
have kept Stuttgart in the news for
more than two years. Made up of the
ministers-president of the four Ger-
man states in the US Zone, the Coun-
cil was organized by US authorities
to coordinate the problems and pro-
gress of the states. Stuttgart is also
the seat of the weekly directorate
meetings which, composed of Council
representatives, deal with matters too
pressing to be held over until the
next monthly session,

From the 15th century the residence
of the rulers of Wuerttemberg, Stutt-
gart today is the capital of the former
tival states of Wuerttemberg-Baden
(except for a portion which lies in the
French Zone). The entire area, prob-
ably because of its proximity to the
democratic influences of its Swiss and
French neighbors, has always had a
reputation for liberalism among the
other states of Germany.

Both Wuerttemberg and Baden were
strongly influenced by the French Re-
volution; at the close of the Napo-
leonic Wars they received constitu-
tions which were among the few to
survive the despotic reaction which
arose in Germany in 1849. Both states
belonged to the independent South

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
German Confederacy and to this day
share a common dislike for domineer-
ing Prussians, who were often used
to suppress liberal movements in the
south.

Partly because of these liberal
traditions, the Nazis failed to gain
much influence in the region before
they came to power in 1933. In the
1930 Reichstag elections in Wuerttem-
berg they polled 9,4 percent of the
vote—the lowest percentage they re-
ceived in the entire Reich. Perhaps
because of this poor showing, perhaps
because of its close ties with Germans
abroad, the Nazis made Stuttgart the
headquarters city of the overseas Nazi
bund movements, Stuttgart’s relation-
ships with other countries were such
that it was known as “The City of
Emigrant Germans.”

While its reputation as a market
center dates back to the 13th century,
the real growth of Stuttgart began
less than 100 years ago. The pictur-
esque Neckar River winds through the
valley in which the city lies, and has
played an important part in the city's
industrial development. Most of the
numerous chemical, automobile, ma-
chine, paper and other factories are
clustered on the banks of the river.

One of Stuttgart’s big businesses
before the war was publishing. It was
second only to Leipzig as Germany's
largest publishing center. John Fre-
derick Cotta, famed for his publica-
tion of the classics, helped to bring
a golden age of literature to Germany,
and added Stuttgart to the list of her
cultural centers.

Before the war Stuttgart boasted
many valuable art collections. The
royal library had among its 400,000
volumes one of the largest collections
of bibles in the world. The city's
music conservatory was one of the
best in Germany. Though the city had
some buildings of historic and cultural
interest, most of the old city had dis-
appeared before 1900; and so Stutt-
gart did not suffer the loss of so many
artistic treasures as many other lesser
German cities.

Few major buildings, in fact, date
beyond the 19th century. The Schocken
Department Store, now largely in
ruins, was a showpiece of the extreme
modernistic architecture for which
Stuttgart was noted. The 265-foot
Turmhaus, home of the Stuttgarter

INFORMATION BULLETIN

One view in Berlin of the destruction caused by war.

Zeitung, built in 1927, survived the
bombings and now has the distinction
of being the tallest building in the
US Zone.

One of the reason for Stuttgart’s
popularity with foreigners was the
health resort at nearby Bad Cannstatt.
This town, dating back to Roman days,
was a much more important city in
the Middle Ages than Stuttgart; it
was, however, incorporated with Stutt-
gart in 1903. A formal park runs from
the 18th century palace in the heart
of Stuttgart (now a ruined shell)
almost all the way to Bad Cannstatt.

Another neighbor, Ludwigsburg, is
nine miles distant but has close ties
with Stuttgart. Once noted for its fine
porcelain and as a temporary home
of the poet, Frederick Schiller, the
town was laid down in the 18th cen-
tury by order of King Ludwig of
Wuerttemberg. The descendants and
heirs of Wilhelm, last king of Wuert-
temberg, still live in Ludwigsburg.

Wilhelm was deposed in the post-
war revolutionary movements of 1918
to 1919. While riot and rebellion were
sweeping other parts of Germany,
Wuerttemberg’s revolution was peace-
ful and well-mannered, A delegation
of workers visited the king in his
castle in Stuttgart and demanded that
he abdicate; they wrote him a letter
of thanks when he did so.

Said King Wilhelm of Wuerttem-
berg: “As I have declared before, my
person shall never be a hindrance to
the free development of conditions in
this land and its welfare. Led by this

18

(Information Bulletin)

thought I am laying down my crown
today: God keep and protect our
beloved Wuerttemberg in the future.”

Berlin: Quadripartite City _

When Adolf Hitler told the German
people in the early days of his re- —
gime that “In four years you will not
recognize Germany,” he had little
idea to what extent and in what
manner his prophesy would come true.

In Berlin today the soldier can
plainly see the full impact of total
war upon a major world metropolis.
The capital of Germany was the
country’s leading industrial, banking
and railroad center. Its breweries
rivaled those of Munich. With 120
daily newspapers and more than 1,000
periodicals, it vied with Leipzig as a
publishing center. Its Kaiser Friedrich
Museum had one of the finest picture
collections in all Europe, comparing
favorably with the Louvre in Paris
and the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.

Berlin's population was the fourth
largest in the world and with its
340 square miles had the largest area
of any European continental city, Ber-
lin was famous for its hospitals,
charitable institutions and sanitary
systems.

But five years of systematic bomb-
ings have reduced Berlin to a dreary
skeleton city. The finishing touches
were inflicted during the furious
fighting in the battle for Berlin be-
tween the Russians and the defending _
German troops. With a savage irony —

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
and strange justice of the kind history
seldom supplies, Hitler's war ended
exactly where it began: in his own
official residence and office, the
Reichs-Chancellory. Buildings which
had not been destroyed in air attacks
were brought down by artillery fire
in this last stand.

Although its suburbs were pleasant,
Berlin is an unusual metropolis in that
almost all its more notable attractions
are grouped in the heart of the city,
within a few square miles around the
Brandenburg Gate. The mile-long, tree-
lined Unter den Linden (Under the
Lime Trees) leads east from the gate
through what used to bea fashionable
district of shops and office buildings;
Charlottenburg Street, which Hitler
widened for his exhibitions of unbeat-
able military might, leads west
through the once-famous Tiergarten
and rows of massive public buildings.
It is here that the damage to Berlin
is most striking.

At one corner of the gate the former
American Embassy building stands in
ruins; at the other stands the Reichs-
tag, once the meeting place of the Ger-
man parliament until it was practically
wrecked by fire in 1933. The Tier-
garten is barren, its trees having been
cut down for firewood, its area con-
verted into small gardens. Through
the Garten runs Wilhelm II's Sieges-
allee (Victory Promenade), lined with
several scores of ghostlike statues of
German emperors, their whiskers,
noses and limbs chipped by bomb or
artillery fragments.

It was decided at Potsdam that the
four victorious powers, Soviet Russia,
Great Britain, France and the United
States, would partition Berlin into four
sectors, each of the governments to
establish occupation headquarters
within its own sector. An Allied Con-
trol Authority was set up with re-
presentatives of each of the countries
endeavoring to coordinate the ad-
ministration of Germany as a whole.
A four-power Kommandatura was
created to administer the affairs of
Berlin itself.

The Allied Control Authority is the
nucleus of Berlin's present bustle and
activity. Meetings are held daily
among various branches of the French,
American, British, Soviet and German
governments in an effort to determine

MARCH 23, 1948

policy and settle problems relating to
postwar Germany.

The future of Germany, Europe and
perhaps the world depends upon the
plans that are being made and carried
out at these sessions.

It is not only in the conference
rooms that the four powers mingle
and exchange ideas. The clubs in the
different sectors are frequented by
members of each of the Big Four.
Operas, concerts, theaters and movies
are attended by visitors of a dozen
nationalities. The Kurfuerstendamm,
prewar Berlin's most elegant boule-
vard, comparable in its way to New
York's Madison Avenue, Paris’ Rue
de la Paix or London's Oxford Street,
is now frequented, despite its ruins,
by a more cosmopolitan crowd than
Berliners ever dreemed possible.

Berlin was formerly the chief pleas-
ure town of Germany, and many
of its recreational facilities are still
available. In prewar days it offered
sailing, international horse racing,
golfing and, in fact, almost every
conceivable type of sport. The city
boasted more than 460 playing
grounds and sport parks, including
the stadium which held the World
Olympics in 1936.

The more intellectual pleasures
were also popular with Berliners be-
fore 1939. The summer music festivals
during the Berlin Art Weeks attracted
music lovers the world over. The
Berlin Philharmonic has risen to a
high position among musical organi-
zations under such outstanding con-
ductors as Hans Richter, Richard

Strauss, Bruno Walter and Wilhelm
Furtwaengler. Despite serious han-
dicaps this organization has been per-
forming, since early in the occupation,
an invaluable morale-builder to the
music-hungry Germans.

Berlin was the center of the Ger-
man movie industry, producing films
in the 1920's which deeply influenced
the world film art and sending a
number of fine actors to the New
York stage and Hollywood. The city
was the home of the modern German
drama since the turn of the century.
Berliners are avid theater-goers, and
even Hitler, who used the theater as
a propaganda weapon, was not able
to kill the excellence of the Berlin
drama entirely.

Under OMGUS auspices, about 20
plays each season have been imported
from America and produced in Berlin,
almost all with long and successful
runs. Under the same auspices, a few
postwar German movies have been
made and released.

Along with these other advantages,
Berlin was prominent as an education-
al center. The Kaiser Wilhelm Uni-
versity, founded in 1810, was one of
the greatest in the world and its large
faculty consisted of the most eminent
of German scholars,

The University has been reopened
since the war with the stipulation that
the students would spend a certain
number of hours rebuilding the
damaged sections,

Berlin's history dates back to the
13th century but it was not until the
reign of the two Prussian Fredericks

Prewar Stuttgart, with city hall and Stifts church in foreground. (Archives)

--- Page 23 ---
that Prussia became a major power
and Berlin's eminence was established.
Frederick Wilhelm I, “The King of
Soldiers," and his son, Frederick the
Great, founded Prussian militarism.
and built many fine palaces and other
notable structures in Berlin, including
the Opera House (now a bombed-out
shell).

The favorite city of the two Fred-
ericks was Potsdam, now in the
Soviet Zone, southwest of Berlin. Fred-
erick William made his famous corps
of giants, the Potsdam guards, a sym-
bol of the military spirit of this Berlin
suburb. Frederick the Great spent a
great amount of time glorifying Pots-
dam. He rebuilt the town hall and
built the New Palace and Sans Souci
Palace (‘Palace Free of Care"). Father
and son were buried in the Garrison
Chapel, long a national German
shrine.

Potsdam has long been a center of
European diplomacy and a symbol of
the military glory of Prussia and of
the Hohenzollerns.

Here President von Hindenburg
handed over his government to Hitler
in 1933 while the chimes of the Garri-
son Church, (also now wrecked),
which rang out the victories of the
German armies, tolled the death knell
of German freedom. Here in the Sans
Souci Palace the heads of state met
in 1945 to lay down the Potsdam
Agreement for governing Germany.

For two centuries the fortunes of
Berlin have been the fortunes of Ger-
many. With the fall of Berlin in
1945 the remainder of Germany bowed
in defeat to the victorous Allies.

Religious Broadcasts Shifted

A reorganization of the program
of religious broadcasts from Radio
Munich has been completed. Under
the new arrangement the Roman
Catholic and the Evangelical-Lutheran
churches are granted equal radio
time, a one-hour block from 10 A.M.
to 11 A.M. every Sunday. Alternating
time is given to the smaller denomi-
nations on Sunday mornings, and a
Jewish broadcast takes place on
Fridays from 7:45 P.M. to 8 P.M.
In addition, outstanding religious
events will be broadcast on special
occasions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Continued from Page 10)

Decentralizaton

Council, were the heads of the
several bizonal administrative depart-
ments. They directed the operations
of their respective departments, con-
sisting of the following: Trade and
Industry; Food Agriculture and For-
estry; Finance; Transport; Posts and
Telecommunications; and Personnel.

The principle of decentralization is
adhered to by Military Government
and “states rights" are as fully pro-
tected as possible under present cir-
cumstances. Special stress is laid on
the use of state governments as
regional organs of administration for
such important bizonal programs as
economics, and food and agriculture.
The establishment of separate field
offices for the bizonal agencies in
the states is not contemplated.

Furthermore, the legislative powers
assigned to the Economic Council
were specifically enumerated and
limited. Legislation promulgated by
the Economic Council was in the
nature of framework laws which out-
line the objectives, major policies,
and over-all standards to be observed
in the administration of the particular
programs, leaving to the states the
actual implementation of the laws.
Only with respect to transportation
and posts and communications have
unified central administrations been
created over which the Laender have
no power.

The reorganization of May 29, 1947,
has thus extended the  respon-
sibilities of the German agencies and
consolidated both the German and
the MG administrations.

Under a reorganization of the Ger-
man bizonal organization, effective
on February 9, 1948, the membership
of the Economic Council was doubled;
a new chamber of 16 members, to
be known as the Laenderrat, was
established, and the Executive Com-
mittee was revised to consists of a
chairman, without portfolio and five
heads of departments who would be
political appointees.

In addition, it was decided to
establish a German High Court for
the combined economic area and a

20

bank for the transaction: of bizonal
financial business.

The powers of the Economic Coun-
cil, in certain respects, will be in-
creased, particularly in the field of
finance. The additional 52 members
of the Council will be elected by
the state legislatures under the same
procedure as was used formerly—one
for each 750,000 of population.

HE POLICY of Military Govern-

ment with respect to govern-
ment agencies and private as-
sociations has been clearly defined
since the beginning of the occupation.
One of the basic principles of de-
mocracy is free association and con-
sequently associations of all kinds,
economic as well as professional, are
permitted provided they adopt demo-
cratic principles of organization.
Membership must be voluntary and
not discriminatory.

No private associations, including
trade associations, chambers of com-
merce, industry, handicraft, or agri-
culture guilds, professional societies,
and other economic associations, may
be accorded the status of a public
law corporation, nor be permitted
to exercise governmental functions,
While such associations are _per-
fectly free to promote the interests
of their members, their relations with
governmental agencies may be of an
advisory character only.

In particular, they are not permitted
to assign production or delivery
quotas, to allocate materials or fuels,
to regulate distribution, sales, prices,
rates, or charges. All such matters
are considered govermental functions
and must be exercised by govern-
mental agencies.

This US policy, as laid down in
Military Government Regulations,
Title 13, has been opposed by Ger-
man-vested interests as well as by
governmental functionaries, and in
frequent cases has been violated.

Military Government is at present
investigating private associations
with respect to their organization
and functions and their relation to
governmental agencies, The enforce-
ment of this policy is one of the
vital requirements for the democra-
tization of German economic in-
stitutions and political life.

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
OMGUS

More than 200 priceless paintings,
brought to the United States in 1945
for safekeeping, will be shipped to
the US Zone some time in April. The
paintings are the prewar property of
the German government and have
been positively established as not be-
ing among the art objects looted by
the Nazis from their rightful owners.

A third edition of “Offen Gesagt,”
the German translation of a series of
excerpts from the book, “Speaking
Frankly,” by former US Secretary of
State James F, Byrnes, is being
published for distribution in Germany.
This edition will comprise 200,000
copies,

Bipartite-Bizonal

The Bipartite Board decided to re-
lease to the German economy certain
textiles manufactured from cotton im-
ported under the Commodity Credit
Corporation contract—$6,000,000 worth
immediately and $3,000,000 monthly
until further notice.

The Board approved two Economic
Council ordinances. One concerns the
dissolution of the Reich Food Estate
and the distribution of its responsibil-
ities primarily to the state govern-
ments. The second changes basically
the system of determining delivery
quotas. Beginning with the 1948 crop,
such quotas will be based on the pro-
duction capacity of the entire farm
(including animal products), assessed
as a single figure, using “grain value”
as a unit of measure for all farm
produce,

A price increase to the farmer will
be authorized for the new crop of
potatoes, the Economic Council ad-
vised the Executive Committee. The
amount will be announced later.

Dr. Erich Koehler (CDU, Hesse) was
elected president of the Council and

MARCH 23, 1948

Gustav Dahrendorf (SPD, Hamburg)
vice president.

Army surplus stocks of dehydrated
whole milk, dehydrated malted milk
and evaporated milk amounting to
1,900 metric tons have been released
to the German Bizonal Director of
Food and Agriculture for distribution
to hospitals and institutions.

Hard coal production improved dur-
ing the period Feb. 7 to 21 over that
of the preceding three weeks, averag-
ing 269,660 tons per day for the week
ending Feb. 21. Figures of 273,000
tons for Feb. 23 and 275,000 tons for
Feb. 24 show that the rise is continu-
ing. The peak for the previous three
weeks was 262,700 tons, on Feb. 5.

Freezing weather which began
throughout the Bizonal Area on
Feb. 19 necessitated the use of ice
breakers on all canals in order to
maintain navigable channels on those
waterways.

Ten whaling vessels, allocated to
the US by the Tripartite Merchant
Marine Commission, have been releas-
ed for use in the bizonal economy.

A Military Government - sponsored
safety drive is under way to insure
the enforcement of German motor
vehicle laws pertaining to highway
safety.

A Soviet request for the movement
of additional imports through North
German ports in March has been ap-
proved by the Quadripartite Move-
ments Working Party. It was agreed
that 30,000 metric tons each of exports
and imports could be handled at Lue-
beck, in Schleswig-Holstein. Exports
and imports, each totaling 15,000
metric tons will be accepted at Ham-
burg.

There was little change in the
electric power situation during the
two weeks ending Feb. 22. Consump-
tion of power decreased accordingly.

An agreement was concluded for
exchange of power between Germany

21

and Austria during February and
March, in accordance with the July,
1947, contract.

Production of primary aluminum is
henceforth to be permitted in the Bi-
zonal Area. The ban was lifted to free
dollars for necessary imports,

The German Economic Administra-
tion in February allocated the follow-
ing US Army surplus stocks to the
states of the Bizonal Area and to the
US and British sectors of Berlin: rain-
coats, wool clothing, about 38,000 me-
ters of khaki cloth and more than
13,000 pairs of shoes.

US Zone

Border traffic along the Czecho-
slovakian frontier has been severely
restricted by intensified patrolling by
the Czechs.

For the first time this past winter,
railway operations were seriously
hampered in February throughout the
US Zone by cold weather.

The general level of industrial pro-
duction during January was 51 per-
cent of the 1936 rate, an increase of
two points above the December level
of 1947,

As of Feb. 24, 14 of the 69 plants
declared surplus under the Bizonal
Level of Industry of Plan of Aug st,
1947, were completely dismantled and
49 others were in the process of dis-
mantling.

Twelve nations were allocated a
total of 3,678 tons of reparations
equipment from 29 plants. Yugoslavia
received the largest amount, 1,275 tons.

The German translation of a US
Government publication, “Aspects of
Current American Foreign Policy,”
has been published in an edition of
10,000 copies as the fifth title in the
MG Political Information series.

The incidence of most common
communicable diseases decreased dur- .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
ing the first two weeks.of February,
returning substantially to the pre-
December rates.

Wuerttemberg-Baden

Three masked bandits held up a
branch office of the Wuerttemberg-
Baden food control authority, forced
employes and ration-card applicants
into another room and escaped with
more than 3,000 food ration cards.

French Military Government author-
ities have banned for three months
distribution of the US-licensed Heidel-
berg newspaper, Rhein-Neckar Zeitung,
in the French Zone. The authorities
said the newspaper had published
attacks on French MG policy.

The State Youth Committees of
Wuerttemberg and Baden have agreed
to sanction youth organizations for
the entire Wuerttemberg-Baden area.
Youth organizations hitherto were re-
quired to operate separately in North
Wuerttemberg and North Baden,

Bavaria

Heavy pilferage on freight cars en-
route from the US Zone to Poland and
Czechoslovakia at the border point of
Schirnding has resulted in the arrest
of a large number of Reichsbahn em-
ployes and the replacement of most
train crews on that portion of the line.

The Bavarian State Library in
Munich was opened formally in
February.

Laws on elections of county as-
semblies, local assemblies and mayors
of small municipalities have been
adopted by the Bavarian legislature.
Elections of the city assemblies will
be held in May, and all the others in
April.

The first state-wide collective
agreement increasing wages in the
building industry and related trades
has been approved for Hesse by
Military Government.

Germany's famed fur industry, once
centered in Leipzig (Soviet Zone), has
apparently been shifting to Frankfurt,
according to the OMG Hesse Eco-
nomics Division. Records show that
about 200 fur firms now are operating
in Frankfurt, compared to only a few
two years ago.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

An exhibition ot models for reconstructing Nuremberg was held recently

in that city. Architect Engelsberger explains his model to onlookers.
(DENA-Bild)

Some 42,500 acres of good, solid
top-soil have been found in Hesse.
The land, according to OMGH Food,
Agriculture, and Forestry Branch, had
been lost within the folds of red tape
and the desire of some farmers to
withhold acreages from their reports.

Allied Control Authority

The Control Council approved and
signed Law No. 62, which repeals
certain Nazi laws, ordinances and de-
crees concerning churches. Law No. 62
became effective on March 20.

Bills for more than $4,250,000 were
submitted by the Allied Control
Authority during 1947 to foreign
countries for communications services
furnished them by the Reichspost. In-
cluded in the bills is more than
$1,3000,000 for Reichspost services
performed in the Bizonal Area. This
amount will go into the Joint Export-
Import Agency fund for Germany's
export credits.

Berlin Sector

Two weekly Berlin trade union
journals have been licensed by US
Military Government to provide a
medium of expression for the trade
union opposition to the SED-dominat-
ed Free German Trade Union of Ber-
lin. One of the journals is called Frei-
heit. The other will be under the
general direction of the Working

22

Association of the Independent Trade
Union Opposition.

Fifteen hundred German bibles, a gift
of the American Bible Society of New
York, are enroute to US Military
Government for distribution to Berlin
residents.

US Military Government in February
released 454 rooms in the US Sector
from requisition and turned back to
the German economy. A swimming
pool used by Army Air Forces in
Tempelhof also was released.

Nazi Laws Repealed

The Control Council approved and
signed Law No. 62, repealing certain
laws, ordinances and decrees  con-
cerning churches promulgated by the
Nazi government. The law will be
published April 20.

The Control Council accepted a
compromise proposal to consider all
previously collected data of demili-
tarization in the four occupied zones
of Germany. The compromise was
adopted after a US challenge to the
Soviet Military Administration to
open its zone to Allied inspection
teams,

The chief mayor of Berlin was
ordered by the Allied Kommandatura
to take action against job shirkers,
speculators, and other violators of
ACA Order No. 3.

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 26 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Allied and Foreign Military Per-
sonnel in the US Zone, AG 322.01
ALC-AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 16 January
1948, Gives a list of Allied and
Foreign Liaison Operational/Func-
tional Personnel.

Changes No. 1, Movement and Do-
cumentation of Supplies in the Eu-
ropean Command, Hq EUCOM,
23 January 1948. Gives substitutions
in EUCOM-SOP 24, 22 December 1947.

Venereal Disease Control Councils,
AG 726.1 GPA-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
27 January 1948. Quotes Memorandum
600-900-2, Department of the Army,
30 December 1947.

Progress Report on the Survey,
Destruction and Disposal of German
Fortifications, Defensive Works and
Armed Forces Zone of Interior Type
Installations in Germany, AG 388.3
GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 29 January
1948. Effective with the period ending
25 February 1948, all military posts
will submit reports called for under
Reports Control Symbol ECGSP-3
direct to EUCOM, Wiesbaden Mili-
tary Post will include information for
all exempt air installations, All other
military posts will omit such infor-
mation,

Identification Symbols, AG 312
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 31 January 1948.
Lists further amendments to EUCOM
letter 28 May 1947.

EUCOM Technical Service Organi-
zation, AG 322 GSP-AGO, 31 January
1948. Gives substitutions for EUCOM
letter AG 322 GSP-AGO, 16 January
1948,

Progress Report on the Survey,
Destruction and Disposal of German
Fortifications, Defensive Works and
Armed Forces Zone of Interior Type
Installations in Germany, AG 388.3
GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 February
1948, Gives substitution for EUCOM
letter 29 January 1948.

SOP No. 17, Army Postal Service
in the European Command, Hq
EUCOM, 11 February 1948.

European Command Equipment Mod-
ification Lists and Tables of Allow-
ances, AG 400.34 GOT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 6 February 1948. This list is
for the information and guidance of
all concerned.

MARCH 23, 1948

Weekly Directive No. 5, Hq
EUCOM, 6 February 1948, Contains
following sections. Sec, I - Separation
of Pregnant Women Officers, AG
210.8 AGP-B. Gives procedure for
recommendation for separation from
service, Sec. II-Military Vehicles on
Loan to European Command Exchange
System, AG 451 GSP. Clarifies the
provisions as they apply to EES.
Sec. III- Weekly Check of Particular
Entries in Certain Personnel Records,
AG 333 AGX,. Outlines improvement
program to perfect administrative
records on a command wide basis.
Sec. IV-Oificial Travel-Department of
the Army Civilian Employees, AG
230.42 GPA. Pertains to the payment
of per diem. Sec, V-Medical Corps
Officer Training and Utilization, AG
353 GPA. Quotes memorandum
605-145-5, Air Force letter 25-25, De-
partment of the Army and the Air
Force, 5 January 1948, for the in-
formation and guidance of all con-
cerned, Sec. VI-Clearance with Office
of the Chief of Special Services for
Producing Entertainment, AG 358.8
SSP, Gives substitution for para-
graph 3, section IX, Weekly Direc-
tive No. 6, 19 September 1947.
Sec, VII-Admission Fees to Recreation-
al Events, AG 353.8 SSP, Gives
substitution for paragraph 1, sec-
tion XIV, Weekly Directiev No. 2,
16 January 1948. Sec. VIII-Showing
of Signal Corps Training Film, AG
353 SIG. Pertains to the availability
of the film No, 104, “The Correct Use
of the Telephone in Army Admin-
istration, for showing. Sec. IY-Duty
Travel Orders and Clearance (Amend-
ment of EUCOM Circular 28), AG
200.4 GOT. Fussen (D 2288) control
point between the US Zone, Ger-
many, and Austria is deleted from
Annex D as an authorized crossing
point, effect 15 February 1948.
Sec. X-Stolen POL Coupon Books,

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters,

23

AG 250,1 PMG, Pertains to EES
coupon book No, 1324 and five EES
coupon books, serial numbers 226 to
372, stolen from the EES Auto Sales
Department, Bad Nauheim. Any in-
formation regarding the whereabouts
or passers of the listed coupons
books should communicate with the
14th MP CI Detachment, Hanau, Ger-
many, phone Hanau 928 or 980.
Sec. XI-Sale of Captured Enemy
Weapons, AG 386.3 GSP. Sec. XII-
Authorized Guests for Snack Bars,
AG 331.2 GPA. Gives substitution
for paragraph 1, EUCOM letter AG
331.2 GAP-AGO, 29 April 1947.
Sec, XIII-Russian Liaison Officers and
Interpreters Course, AG 322.01 GID.
Pertains to the third course for the
period beginning 6 April 1948 at the
7712 European Command Intelligence
School. Sec. XIV-Implementation by
Maintenance Shops of EUCOM SOP
100, Accounting for Lost, Damaged
or Destroyed Property, AG 140 GSP.
Sec. XV-Requests for Information to
the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
AG 350.09 GID. Sec. XVI-Veneral
Disease Surveys, AG 726.1 MCH.
Sec, XVII-National Service Life In-
surance, AG 019 FIN. Sec. XVIII-
Quotas for 7701 EUCOM Band
Training Unit, AG 353 SSP. Sec, XIX-
Results of EUCOM Command Mainte-
nance Inspections, AG 333 GSP, Lists
amendments to Annex A, Section VI,
Weekly Directive No. 4, EUCOM,
30 January 1948, Sec. XX-Rescissions.
US Army Logistical Support of IRO
Operations and IRO Personnel in the
US Occupied Zone of Germany, AG
322 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 12 Feb-
Tuary 1948. Gives substitutions for
EUCOM letter 1 December 1947,
Weekly Directive No. 6,, Hq
EUCOM, 13 February 1948. Contains
following sections. Sec. I-Quota for
Basic Education (Literacy Training) at
Frankfurt, Munich and Nuremberg
Army Education Centers, AG 353
GOT, Sec, II-1948 EUCOM Battalion

and Company Level Basketball
Championships, AG 353.8 SSP.
Amends EUCOM letter, AG 353.8

SSP-AGO, 13 November 1947. Sec. III-
Weekly Check of Particular Entries in
Certain Personnel Records, AG 333

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
AGX, Sec. IV-Military Police Depart-
ment, US Constabulary School, AG
352 PMG. This letter lists detailed
information for the prospective
student to the MP School previously
located at Nellingen, APO 154,
(coordinates L49/S15) near Stuttgart,
which has been moved to the US
Constabulary School, APO 61, (coor-
dinates: C-9283) Sonthofen, Germany,
and is redesignated as shown above.
Sec. V-Joint Export Import Agency,
AG 004 SGS. JEIA is no longer a
part of the Bipartite Control Office,
and papers involving its functions
with the various staff divisions of
EUCOM should be sent to the JEIA
office in Hoechst. The office of the
Director General of JEIA (Mr.
William J, Logan) is situated. in
Hoechst, telephone: Red Line 83 or
Hoechst 542/642, Sec, VI-New Loca-
tion of Allied Contact Section, AG
311.18 ALC. Effective 9 February 1948
the Allied Contact Section (less Mail
Room) will move to 229 Fiirsten-
berger Strasse, Frankfurt Compound.
The Mail Room remains at Room 161,
Headquarters Building, until further
notice. Sec. VII-Stolen POL Coupon
Books, AG 250.1 PMG. Gives sub-
stitution for serial numbers listed in
Section X, Weekly Directive No. 5,
6 February 1948, as 226368-69-70-71
and 72, inclusive. Sec. VIII-Savings
and Insurance Program, AG 019 FIN.
Sec. IX-Service Charges for Transient
Billets, AG 620 GPA. Gives substi-
tutions for Paragraph 1b, Section VII,
Weekly Directive No, 2, EUCOM,
16 January 1948, Sec, X-Maliunc-
tioning of Monopol on 57MM Re-
coilless Rifle M18 (T15E13), AG 474
ORD, Sec, XI-Replacement of Gas
Cylinder Lock Screw in US Rifle;
Cal., 30 Mi, AG 474 ORD. Sec, XII-
Quota for Troop Information and
Education Staff School, AG 352 TIE.
Sec, XIII-Procedure for Sale by EES
of 1,000 %-Ton Jeeps Rebuilt by Ord-
nance, AG 451 GPA. Sec. XIV-Allow-
ance of Ammunition for Industrial
Police, AG 471 GPA. Sec. XV-Mail
Address Headquarters EUCOM and
EUCOM Rear, AG 211.1 AGM. APO
403 serves the Heidelberg area and
will become the APO address of
Headquarters EUCOM. APO 757
remains the address of Headquarters

INFORMATION BULLETIN

EUCOM until the movement to Hei-
delberg of the Office of the Deputy
Commander-in-Chief, EUCOM. Head-
quarters EUCOM Rear, APO 403, will
be established as a mail address
effective 20 February 1948, APO 403
will be established as the mail
address for each staff division upon
completion of its move to Heidelberg.
Sec. XVI-Designation of Major Com-
mands, AG 322 GPA. Sec. XVII-
Registration of Materials Handling
Equipment, AG 400 GSP. Sec. XVIII-
Observance of Holidays, AG 006-
GPA. Sec. XIX-Loss of Passports, AG
014.331 GPA. Sec. XX- Voting, AG
014.35 AGO, Sec. XXI-Rescissions, AG
461 AGO.

Civilian Personnel Management and
Administration, AG 230.437 HCCIV,
Hq EUCOM, 13 February 1948, In-
structs the chiefs of divisions and
sections in assigning individuals to a
full or part-time duty.

SOP No. 107, Attitude Research
Studies, Hq EUCOM, 16 February 1948,

List of Extension Subcourses Avail-
able to Department of the Army and
Department of the Air Force Person-
nel, as of 30 November 1947, AG 352
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 18 February
1948.

Extended Active Duty, AG 210.3
GPA-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 18 February
1948. Lists the commanders having
authority to approve applications for
extended active duty.

Amendment No. 2 to Regulation
No. 1 under MG Law No. 56, AG 010.6
(ED), OMGUS, 20 February 1948. This
supersedes Regulation No.1 as origi-
nally published as well as Amend-
ment No. 1, thereto, dated 30 April 1947.

Weekly Directive No. 7, Hq EUCOM,
20 February 1948. Contains following
sections. Sec. I—Mailing of Duty Free
Gifts to the US by Members of US
Armed Forces, AG 311.16 GPA.
Sec. II — Investigations-Officer’s Per-
sonnel History Statement, AG 333.5
AGP-B. Quotes memorandum 605-230-1,
Department of the Army, 20 October
1947. Sec. III—Movement of Depen-
dents-Clarification of | Quartering
Policy, AG 292 GPA.

Sec. 1V—Issuance of 1st and 2ndClass
Rail Transportation for Individuals
Traveling on Official Duty Orders in
Europe, AG 300.4 RYT. Gives sub-
Stitution for paragraph 3, section V,

24

Weekly Directive No. 4, EUCOM,
30 January 1948, Sec. V— Weekly
Check of Particular Entries in Certain
Personnel Records, AG 333 AGX.
Sec. VI—Individual Vehicle Utilization
Record, AG 451 RYT. Sec. VII—
Acceptance and Return of Vehicles by
Ordnance Field Maintenance Shops,
AG 451 ORD. Sec. VIII—Determination
of Line of Duty, AG 210.3 MCH. Cites
regulations governing such investiga-
tions. Sec. IX—Travel to Free Territory
of Trieste, AG 200.4 AGP-S. Cites in-
formation for personnel eligible for
such duty travel. Sec. K—Ordnance
Field Maintenance Activities-Produc-
tion Chart, AG 322 ORD. Sec. XI—
Requisition for Publications and Blank
Forms, AG 461.01 AGX. Cites EUCOM
SOP 106 procedure for requisitioning
from EUCOM Publications Depot.
Sec. XII—Designation of Major Com-
mands, AG 322 GPA. Amends para-
graph 1, section XVI, Weekly Direc-
tive No. 6, EUCOM, 13 February 1948
to read “Special Troops, Hq EUCOM
(Rear).” Sec. XIII—Processing of Cor-
respondence and Requests for Waivers
for Air Force Enlistees, AG 340 AGP-
B. Sec. XIV—EUCOM Athletic Policy,
AG 353.8 GPA. Gives substitution for
section XII Directive No. 3,, EUCOM,
29 August 1947, Sec. XV—Competitive
Tour for Appointment in Regular
Army, AG 210.1 AGP-B. Sec. XVI—
Signal Messenger Service, AG 311.2
SIG. Gives traffic service operating
between Frankfurt and Heidelberg for
Hq EUCOM (Rear) and Heidelberg
Military Post. Sec. XVII— Vehicle
Security Regulations, AG 451 HDC.
Lists authorized guarded parking lots
within the limits of the Frankfurt
Military Post. Sec. XVIII—Venereal
Disease Surveys, AG 726.1 MCH.
Sec. XIX—Registration of Materials
Handling Equipment, AG 400 GSP.
Sec. XX—Supply of Towels and Table
Linen at Transient Hotels, AG 620
GPA. Sec. XXI—Return of Military
and Civilian Personnel and Their
Dependents to the United States, AG
370.5 GPA. Amends Reports Control
Symbol ECGPA-53 to include civilian
personnel paid from appropriated
funds. Sec. XXII— Annual Physical
Examination of Army Officers for
1948, AG 201.5 AGP-B. Sec. XXIII—
Rescissions, AG 461 AGO.

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 28 ---
KEY MG PERSONNEL

Office of

Commander-in-Chief
(Berlin, APO 742)

Commander-in-Chief and Military Governor:
General Lucius D. Clay, 42481,
Personal Assistant: Capt. M. C, Allen, 42481.
Political Adviser: Ambassador Robert D.
Murphy, 42630. ,
Special Adviser: Mr. J. Anthony Panuch,
45452.

Special Assistant: Mr, F. L. Devereux, 45207.

Budget and Fiscal Director: Col. J. J. Dub-
belde, Jr., 45405.

Executive Officer: Capt. B, R. Barrett, 45415,

Director of Management Control: Mr. James
L. Sundquist, 42077.

Chief, Management & Reports Branch EUCOM:
Mr. W. H. Schroder, 43794.

Director of Intelligence: Maj. Gen. R. L. Walsh,
45372.

Assistant to Director: Lt. Col. Robert J. Quinn,
Jr., 45373.

Executive Officer: Major T. J. Grant, 45420.

meperer General: Maj. Gen. Louis A. Craig,
45321.

Executive Officer: Col. Harold R. Booth, 45322.

Director of Civilian Personnel: Mr, Robert
M, Barnett, 44368,

Office
of Military Government
for Germany (US)
(Berlin, APO 742)

OMGUS,
Maj. Gen,

Commanding General,
Military Governor:.
Hays, 44655.

Administrative Assistant: Mrs. Mary Alderson,
43969,

and Deputy
George P.

Assistant to Deputy Military Governor: Brig.
Gen. William Hesketh, 45208,

Office of Chief of Staff

Chief of Staff: Brig. Gen. C. K. Gailey, 42634.
Executive Officer: Capt. V. W. Bond, 43529.

Office of Secretary General
Acting Secretary General: Mr. James E. King,
Jr., 42006.

Associate Secretary General: Lt. Col. Lon H.
Smith, 42300.

Staff Secretary: Mr.- James E. King, Jr., 42006,

Executive Secretary: Major James A, Mc-
Donald, 42477,

US Secretary, Bipartite Secretariat:
Walter E. Mather, 42476,

Deputy US Secretary: Major Gordon L, C.
Scott, 42224.

Assistant Staff Secretary (Economics): Major
Theodore C. Boyden, 43148,

Assistant Staff Secretary (Governmental-
Laenderrat): Mr. Eric G. Gration, 43380.

Assistant Staff Secretary (Reorientation): Mr.
James M. Barnett, 43148.

Assistant Staff Secretary
Christian J. Gall, 44646.

Personnel & Administrative Officer: ist Lt. W.
Thomas, 42131,

Major

(Travel): Mr.

Control Office
Control Officer: Mr, James L. Sundquist, 42077.

Assistant Control Officer: Mr. Waldemar
Thorson, 42183,

MARCH 23, 1948

Assistant Control Officer for Statistical Stand-
ards: Mr. Peter M. Rouzitsky, 42353.

Administrative Officer: Miss Dorothy A.
Kremmel, 43555,

Chief, Budget and Fiscal Control Branch: Mr.
Ralph D. Snow, 43457.

Chief, Fiscal Control Section: Mr.
A. Solander, 42209.

Chief, Budget, Analysis Section: Mr. Curtis
Phythian, 43942.

Chief, Allowances Control Section: Mr. Ver-
non C. Jones, 43560.

Chief, Graphics Unit: Mr. Harold E. Miner,
42329.

Chief, Organization and Program Branch:
Mr. Gordon P. Freese, 42059.

Principal Management Analyst: Dr, Beryl R.
McClaskey, 42057.

Principal Management Analyst: Dr. David G.
White, 45206.

Chief, Reports Branch: Dr. Harold G. Carlson,
43056.

Hilmer

Deputy Chief: Dr. Charles B. Millican, 43055.

Chief, Historical Section: Mr. Algernon S. B,
Nolting, 43793.

Editor, Information Bulletin: Mr. H, Warner
Waid, 42252.

Assistant Editor: Mr. Henry S, Matteo, 42923.

Chief, Statistics Branch: Mr. Burnham P.
Beckwith, 42382.

Chief, Forms Control Section: Mr. Albert St.
Denis, 42725,

This list of key personnel in
Military Government in Germany
was compiled by the Information
Bulletin staff from the latest
available information and by
check with the offices and divi-
sions concerned. The telephone
number after each name is that |
of the exchange in the city in
which the unit is located.

Office of Personnel Officer:

Personnel Officer: Col. James T. Duke, 42897.

Executive Officer: Major Reginald J. Rivard,
43916.

Chief, Administrative Branch: Capt. Peter A.
Caputo, 42651.

Acting Chief, Reports Section: Capt. Peter A.
Caputo, 42651.

Chief, Civilian Personnel Branch: Mr. John
E. Tromer, 42085.
Acting Chief, Classification Section: Mrs.

Helen A. Weightman, 42677.

Chief, Employee Relations Section: Mr. Paul
G. Lutzeier, 44325.

Chief, Employee Training Section: Mr. Lyman
D. Heghin, 43358.

Acting Chief, Recruitment & Placement Sec-
tion: Miss Frances M. Moan, 43688.

Chief, Regulations & Precedures Section: Miss
Gervaise M. Lemke, 43471.

Chief, Civilian Payroll Section: Mr. John W.
Warner, 42969,

Chief, Civilian Leave Section:
K. Tom, 43713.

Acting Chief, Status Section: Miss Edith M.
Diggs, 43805.

Miss Jamie

25

Chief, Suggestions & Awards Section: Mr.
George J. Mayer, 42424,

Chief, Military Personnel Branch:
James M. Boyd, 42680.

Chief, Military Miscellaneous ‘Section: Capt.
Ervin M. Shaffer, 43406, i

Chief, Assignment Section:
Meek, 42951.

Chief, Rotations, Redeployment Section: Capt.
John J. Carrollo, 44471.

Chief, Indigenous Personnel Branch,
Henry W. Cornell, 42768.

Major
Capt. Hibbs S,

Major

Office of the Adjutant General

Adjutant General: Lt. Col. George H. Garde,
42031.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Frederick A. Sturm,
45265,

Personnel Officer: Miss Louise Doss, 43870.

Chief, Miscellaneous Branch: Capt. Clifford
J. Storlie, 42302.

Bartek Chief: CWO Frank D. Spannraft,

Chief, Military Personnel Branch: Major Ros-
coe L. Bates, 43022.

Assistant Chief: Capt. Harry Ross, 42298,

Chief, Reference Library: Mr. Henry A, Dun-
lap, 44083.

Chief, Travel Branch: Major John B. Mallon,
44038.

pert Orders Section: Capt. Robert Hancock,
43863.

Chief, Combined Travel Board: Mr. Jean J.
Chenard, 45265,

Chief, Entry Section: Mr. Stephen E. Krasa,
42214,

Chief,
44012.

Chief, Publications Branch: Mr. Monroe M.
Richardson, 43508, 3

oe Printing Plant: Mr, Marshall H. Bruce,

Exit Section: Mr. Harold A. Sarle,

Chief, Lithograph Plant: Mr. Joseph F,. Ges-
monde, 42582.

Chief, Records Branch: Capt. Robert E. Reed,
44371,

Chief, Cable Control Branch: Mr. Henry F,
Roemmele, 42250.

Cable Monitor (night shift): Mr. Martin S.
Bowe, 42320.

Chief, Message Control Branch: Capt. Homer
C. Kelso, 43761.

Office of Inspector General

Inspector General: Col. Walter E.
436:

Jenkins,

Audit Office

Chief: Mr. M. C. McIntosh, 45256,
Deputy Chief: Mr. Walter P. Hooper, 45332.

Office of Director of Intelligence

Director: Col. Peter P. Rodes, 43851.

Deputy Director & Chief, Analysis @ Research
Branch: Mr. Lawrence E. de Neufville, 43928,

Chief, Security Branch: Mr. Laughlin A. Camp-
bell, 43903.

Executive Officer: Mr. Innis D. Harris, 43352.

Chief, Administration Branch: WOJG Robert
Baker, 43875.

Intelligence Analyst (Legal & Denazification):
Mr. Innis D. Harris, 43012.

Intelligence Analyst (Sociological): Mr. John
T. Butterwick, 43905.

Intelligence Analyst (Political): Mr. Hans A.
Kallmann, 43930.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Intelligence Analyst (Economical):
thony Geber, 45327.

Intelligence Analyst (Sociological): Mr. Ed-
ward J. Arndt, 43905.

Intelligence Analyst
430:

Mr. An-

(Security): Mr. Orr,

Office of the Director of Political

Affairs:

Director: Mr. James W. Riddleberger, 42129.

Acting Executive Officer: Mr. William Bruce
Locking, 42701.

Personnel Officer: Miss Lucy A. Shults, 43034,

Special Disbursing Agent: Mr. Charles M.
Rice, Jr., 42854.

Military Liaison Officer: ist Lt. Leon J. Barat,
43150.

Sal Political Branch: Mr. Warren M. Chase,

Chief, Section I: Mr. Brewster H. Morris, 42104,

Chief, Section II: Mr. Perry Laukhuff, 44092.

Chief, Economic Branch: Mr. James W. Gan-
tenbein, 43182.

Assistant Chief: Mr. Roy I, Kimmel, 43183.

Assistant Chief: Mr. J. Kittredge Vinson,
43184,

Civil Air Attache: Mr.
43360.

Chief, Press & Public Relations: Mr. Thomas
B. Wenner, 43844.

Political Officer (Baden-Baden) Mr.
de W. Mayer, Cigogne 164.

Political Officer (Frankfurt): Mr. Carmel Offie,
Frankfurt 6135.

Economic Liaison Officers

Milton M. Turner,

Ernest

(Frankfurt): Mr.

Hector C. Prud’homme and Mr. Wesley
C. Haraldson, Frankfurt 8803.
Chief, Consular Branch: Mr. Marshall M.

Vance, consul general, 43463.

Chief, Visa Section: Mr. Andrew E. Hanney,
43689.

Chief, Notarials & Welfare Station: Mr, Fran-
cis A. Lane, 43437.

Chief, Citizenship Section: Mr.
Montenegro, 44770.

Chief, General Consular and Property Protec-
tion Sections: Mr. James S, Sutterlin, 42239,

Daniel W.

Consular Offices

Berlin: Mr. Marshall M. Vance, consul general,
Berlin 43463,

Bremen: Mr. Maurice W, Altaffer,
general, Bremen 20779.

Bremerhaven: Mr. Robert B. Houston, Jr.,
vice consul, Bremerhaven 21578.

Frankfurt: Mr. Sydney B. Redecker, consul
general, Frankfurt 33271.

Hamburg: Mr. Edward M.
general, Hamburg 34-4661.
Munich: Mr. Sam E. Woods, consul general,

Munich 2417.
Stuttgart: Mr. A, Dana Hodgdon,
general, Stuttgart 93-664.

Public Information Office

Director: Mr. William Haggard, 43342.

Deputy Director: Mrs. Marion S. Coleman,
43434,

Administrative Assistant: Miss Mabel Klouda,
43433.

Chief,
43601

consul

Groth, consul

consul

News Branch: Mr. Robert B. Gray,

Assistant Chief: Mr. William J. Caldwell,
43100.

Special Missions Officer: Mr. William Ulman,
45216,

Le & Liaison Officer: Mr. William Hunter,

Office of Cultural Affairs Adviser
Adviser; Dr. Herman B, Wells.

Officer of Governmental Administra-
tion Adviser
Adviser: Mr, George B. McKibben.

Special Consultant on Property
Division
Consultant: Mr. T. H. Ball, 43068.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Office of the Economics Adviser

Adviser: Mr. L, Wilkinson, 42683.

Deputy Adviser: Dr. D. D. Humphrey, 42809.

Special Assistant on Economics Procedures and
Controls: Dr. F. Kempner, 44544.

Special Assistant for Policy Coordination: Mr.
F, S. Hannaman, 42783.

Scone Officer: 1st Lt. F, B. Shoomaker,

Chief, Administration Section:
Jones, 43202.

Chief, Central Secretariat: Mr. R. A. Steele,
42982.

Capt. E, W.

Chief, Food and Agriculture Group: Mr. R. A.
Tonnes, 43554.

Chief, Industry Group: Mr. H. L. Berno, 42309.

Chief, Communications Group: Mr. E. H. Mer-
rill, 42469,

Chief, Research Control Group: Mr.
Nordstrom, 43243.

Chit, Transport Group: Col. H. W. Holmer,

Cc. H.

Chief, Reports and Statistics Group: Mr. Saul
Nelson, 43626,

Office of the Finance Adviser

Director: Mr. Jack Bennett, 45461.

Deputy Director: Mr. Jo Fisher Freeman, 42127.

Executive Officer: Mr. Charles G. Caldwell,
42169.

Chief, Foreign Exchange Policy Group: Mr.
Judson C. Jones, 43731,

Chief, Internal Finance Policy Group: Mr.
Walter Heller, 43169.

Deputy Chief: Mr. David Schwartz, 43444.

Chief, Central Bank Group: Mr. Henry C.
Conrad, Frankfurt 22805.

Chief, Foreign Exchange Depository Group:
Col. William G. Brey, Frankfurt 21191.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Frank J. Roberts, 33779.

Chief, Financial Intelligence Group: Mr. Saul
Kagan, 42192.

Office of Naval Adviser

Commander of US Naval Forces in Germany
and Naval Adviser: Rear Admiral R. E.
Schuirmann, 42416.

Deputy Naval Adviser and Technical Intel-
ligence Officer: Capt. J. S. Crenshaw, 42363.

Intelligence Officer: Capt. A. H. Graubart,
43220.

Asistant Technical Intelligence Officer: Comdr.
H. B. Blackwood, 42314.

Assistant Deputy Naval Adviser: Lt. Comdr.
P. Gano, 45078.

Assistant Technical Intelligence Officer: Lt.
Comdr. N. M. Cooke, 42315.

Assistant Intelligence Officer: Lt. Comdr.
E. G. Riedel, 42387.

Transportation and Personnel Officer: Lt. (JG)
W. L. Crawford, 42221.

Aide and Flag Lieutenant: Ensign J. M. Land-
troop, 42416.

Berlin Command

Commanding Officer: Col.
43778,

Deputy Commander: Col. W. F. Rehm, 43756,

Chief of Staff: Col. E, H. Metzger, 43680.

R. A. Willard,

Armed Forces Division

Director: Maj. Gen. William E. Hall, 43934.

Deputy Director: Col. T. B. Whitted, 42660,

Chief, Alr Forces Branch: Lt. Col. D. E. Kun-
kel, 42062.

Chief, Army Branch: Col. T. B. Whitted, 42860.

Chief, Disarmament Section: Lt, Col. G, Camp-
bell, 42013.

Chief, Demobilization Section: Lt, Col. A. D.
Poinier, 42012,

Chief, Civil Aviation Branch: Col. G. M. Jones,
42160.

Deputy Chief: Mr. T. D. Johnson, 42111.

Chief, Airway Engineering Section: Mr. L.
M. ‘Hammond, 42446.

Chief, Airways Operations Section: Mr.
Emerson Mehrling, 45367.

26

Chief, Economics Regulations Section: Mr.
J. S. Parker, 44444,

Chief, Meteorology Section: Mr. Clayton van
Thullenar, 42112.

Chief, Safety Regulations Section: (Vacancy)

Chief, Navy Branch (attached):
Crenshaw, 45078.

Chief, Executive Branch: Mr. G. B. Robbins,
43036.

Capt. J. S,

Deputy Chief: Mr. James C. McKinnon,
42260,
Chief Administrative Officer: Mr. James C.

McKinnon, 42260.
Chief, Reports & Statistics Section: Miss Gene-
vieve Plagman, 54168.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Dr, E. H. Litchfield, 42576,

Adviser: Mr. John Elliott, 45954,

Deputy Director for Bizonal Affairs: Mr. Ken-
neth Dayton.

Deputy Director for Operations: Mr. H. P.
Mettger.

Chief, Secretariat
Forest.

Associate Chief: Mr. William T. Lovett.

Chief, Personnel & Administration Branch: Mr.
William K. Ingram.

Chief, Civil Service & Administrative Courts
Branch: Mr. Ellsworth Wolfsperger, 43557.

Chief, Political Activities Branch: Mr. R. M.
Scammon, 42551.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Roland M. Myers, 43378.

Chief, Governmental Structures Branch: Dr.
Hans Simons, 42610.

Chief, Legislation Branch: Dr. Erwin W. Bard.

Chief, Population and Analysis Branch: Mr.
Karl A. Shafer.
Chief, Civil Liberties and Democratization
Branch: Dr. Harold W. Landin. .
Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. T. E. Hall,
42583,

Chief, Public Health Branch: Col. M. T. Ku-
bin, 42581.

Deputy Chief: Col. H, T. Marshall, 42506.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mrs. Mildred
B, Smith, 43383,

Chief, Displaced Persons Branch: Mr. L. G.
Kelly.

Branch: Mr. Alexander

Education and Cultural Relations
Division

Acting Director: Dr. Herman B. Wells.

Deputy Director: Col. Emil Lenzner.

Executive Officer: Mr. James L. Sexton,

Administrative Officer: Mr. Jules Chaussabel.

Personnel Officer: Miss Elisabeth A. Moseley.

Chief, Education Branch: Dr. Richard T. Alex-
ander.

Deputy Chief: Dr. Mildred E. English.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr. C. Arild
Olsen.

Acting Chief, Cultural Exchange Branch: Mr.
Frank G. Banta.

Chief, Group Activities Branch: Mr. Lawrence
E. Norrie.

Information Control Division

Director: Col. Gordon E. Textor, 42258.

Deputy Director: Mr. Thomas P. Headen,
43102.

Deputy Director for Policy and Quadripartite
Affairs: Mr. Alfred V. Boerner, 44179.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Arthur P. Nesbitt,
42259.

Administrative Officer: Major Sam G. Adler,
42770,

Personnel Officer: Mr.
43426,

Deputy Chief, Plans & Directives Branch (for
Laender Affairs): Mr. M. H. Fodor, 42268.

Deputy Quadripartite Affairs: Mr. Herbert C.
Mayer, 42268.

Chief, Quadripartite Secretariat: Mr. Alex V.
Chukayeff, 43103.

Reports, Public Relations & Historical Officer:
Mr. Elmer Cox, 43429,

Norman A. Barnes,

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 30 ---
Chief, Overt Management Branch: Lt. Col.
Donald T. Jones.

Chief, Fiscal Section: Mr. John Kidder.

Fiscal Director: Mr. John M. Bartels, 42644.

Paper Coordinator: Mr. Thomas J. Crowell,
Munich 2320 Ext. 278.

Chief, Press Control Branch: Mr. Arthur D.
Eggleston, 43104.

Deputy for Operations: Mr. John Butler.

Press Scrutiny Officer: Mr. Peter H. Olden,
44294,

Chief Control Officer DENA: Mr. John M.
Stuart, Bad Nauheim, 2271.

Deputy Chief: Mr, Robert E. Glynn, Bad Nau-
heim 2271.

Editor, News of Germany: Mr, Harold W. Fell-
man, Bad Nauheim 2271.

Chief, Scrutiny Officer, DENA: Mr,
Jacobson, Bad Nauheim 2271.

Fiscal & Business Management Officer: Mr.
William Rieser, Bad Nauheim 2271.

Chief, Radio Control Branch: Mr. Charles S.
Lewis, 43430.

Deputy Chief and Chief Technical Control
Officer: Mr. William R. Busch, 43569.

Chief, Radio Central Control: Mr. Hans B.
Meyer, 44454,

Deputy, Radio Central Control: Mr. Otto J.
Brandes, 44454.

Technical Control Officer, Radio Central Con-
trol: Mr. Harold O. Wright, Frankfurt 23851,
Ext. 377.

Radio Control Officer: Mrs. Elizabeth V. Foss,
4A454,

Chief, Film Theater & Music Control Branch:
Mr. Eric T, Clarke, 43410.

Deputy Chief & Theater Control Officer: Mr.
Benno D. Frank, 42642.

Film_ Production Officer: Mr. Eric Pommer,
44613.

Alfred

Film Exhibition Board Executive Officer: Mr.
Nils C. Nilson, 42569.

Documentary Film Producer: Mr.
Schulberg, 5760.

Chief Documentary Film Editor: Mr. Joseph
Zigman, 5760.

Music Office: Mr. John Euarts, 43431,

Stuart H.

Chief, Publications Control Branch: Dr. Donglas
‘Waples, 43478.

Publications Control Officer: Mr. Laurence
Dalcher, 43428.

Publication Control Officer: Mrs. Dorothy

Waples, 43478.

Chief, Political Information Branch: Mr. W.
B. Phillips.

Press and Radio Project Director: Mr. L. F.
Babcock, 43855.

Periodical & Public Project Director: Mr. M.
H. Williams, 43854,

Information Specialist: Mr. C. P. Arnot, 44468,

Information Specialist: Mr. M. S. Pratt, 44529,

Chief, Exhibitions & Information Centers
Branch: Mrs. Patrica van Delden.

Deputy Chief: Dr. William C. Headrick, 44336.

ons Officer: Mr. Peter G. Harnden,

Chief, Research Branch: Dr. Robert C. Schmid,
42669.

Chief
43042,

Chief, Reports & Analysis Sectioa: Mr. Alex
L. George, 42993.

Deputy for Field Operations: Mr.
Kellen, 42944,

Chief, Public Opinion Surveys: Mr. Frederick
W. Williams, 45487.

Deputy: Mrs. Hedwig Ylvisaker, 54557.

Chief, Field Survey Staff: Mr. Frederic Trem-
bour, 45487.

Chief, Research Analyst: Mr. Frederide W.
Swift, 45466,

Media Studies Section: (Vacancy),

Konrad

Legal Division
red sae J. Rockwell, 42456,

are or: Col. John M. Raymond,
Deputy Director: Mr. Whitney R. Harris,

Consultant: Mr, Samuel Kramer, 43461.
Consultant; Judge William Clark, 42109,

MARCH 23, 1948

Administrative Officer: Mr. Robert B. Mautz,
42258.

Chief, Secretariat: Mr. E. I. Wiener, 42357.

Reports Officer: Mr. M. A. Weightman, 42425.

Librarian: Miss M. N. Robbins, 42404,

Publications: Mr. W. M. Linden, 42026.

Acting Chief, Administration of Justice Branch:
Mr. Charles H. Kraus, 42179.

Chief, German Courts Sectiom: Mr. Hans W.
‘Weigert, 43520.

Chief, MG Courts Section: Mr.
Denney, 44620.

Chief, Patent Section: Major Victor L. Bil-
lings, 43705.

Chief, Justice Ministry Section: Mr. Mortimer
Kollender, 45159.

President Board of Clemency: Mr.
Casey, 44041,

Chief, Legal Advice Branch: Mr. W. E.
McCurdy, 42352.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Whitney R. Harris, 42361.

Chief, Commercial Law Section: Mr. R. D.
Kearney, 42184,

Chief, General Law Section: Mr. Angus R.
Shannon, Jr., 42395,

Chief, German Law Section: Mr. A. T. von
Mehren, 44614.

Chief, Legislation Branch: Mr. E. H. Schopler,
4346:

Clark C,

Fred J.

Chief, German Law Revision Section: Mr. Wal-
ter E, Menke, 44525.

Chief, Legislative Drafting Section: Miss Mar-
garet Cunningham, 42184.

Chief, Review & Liaison Section: Mr. J. von
Elbe, 42157.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. T. W. Markley,
42601.

Chief, War Crimes Branch: Mr. Ben Smith,
42355.

Manpower Division

Director: Mr. Leo Werts, 42454,

Executive Officer: Col. V. C. Stevens, 42410.

Administrative Officer: Mr. Graham N. McKel-
vey, 42503.

Chief, Labor Relations Branch: Major H. F.
Mullaney, 42307.

Chief, Wages, Labor Standards,
Branch: Mr. E. Beckner, 42430.

Chief, Social Insurance Branch: Mr. M. G.
Murray, 43825.

Chief, Manpower, Allocation Branch: Mr. D.
L. Snyder, 43226,

Chief, Reports and Statistics Branch: Mr. E.
L. Deuss, 42507.

& Housing

Property Division

Director: Mr. Philips Hawkins.

Deputy Director: Mr. Eldon J. Cassoday.

Chief, External Assets Branch: Mr. S. M. Rose,

Deputy Chief: Mr. Frank J. Miller.

Chief, Restitutions, Monuments, Fine Arts and
Archives Branch: Col. John H. Allen.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Frederick G. Hulse.

Chief, Reparations Branch: Mr. Orren R.
McJunkins.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Frederice G. Draper.

Chief, Decartelization Branch: Mr. Richardson
Bronson.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Charles H. Collison.

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr.
Hartzch.

Office of Chief of Counsel
for War Crimes
(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)

Chief of Counsel: Brig. Gen. Telford Taylor,
61117.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (I. G. Farben): Mr.
Josiah E. Dubois, Jr., 61253.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (Krupp Case): Mr.
Rawlings Ragland, 61288.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (Ministries Case):
Dr. Robert M. W. Kempner, 61127.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (SS & Military
Cases): Mr. James M. McHaney, 61232.

27

E. F.

Executive Counsel: Mr. Benjamin B. Ferencz,
61361.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. A. J.
61120,

Director, Administrative Division: Dr. Howard
A. Russell, 61178,

Director, Reproduction Division: Major Alex-
ander C, Granzin, 61025.

Director, Signal Division: Major Kenneth K.
Evans, 61050.

Director, Language Division: Mr. Thomas K.
Hodges, 61106.

Director, SS and Military Division: Mr. James
M. McHaney, 61232.

Director, Evidence Division: Mr.WalterH.Rapp,
61194,

Director, Economic Ministries Division: Mr.
Charles S. Lyon, 61495.

Director, Political M'nistries Division: Dr, Ro-
bert M. W. Kempener, 61127.

Acting Director, Special Projects Division: Mr.
Paul H. Gantt, 61492,

Chief, Trial Team I (I. G, Farben): Mr. Drexel
A. Sprecher, 61244.

Chief, Trial Team III (Krupp Case):
Russell Thayer, 61286.

Chief, Trial Team V (Hostages Case): Mr.
Theodore F. Fenstermacher, 1233.

Director, Public Relations Division, and Public
Roe Officer: Mr. Ernest C. Deane,

Deputy Public Information Officer for Ameri-
He Press and Radio: Mr. Eugene Phillips,

Maroun,

Mr, H.

Deputy Public Information Officer for German
Press: Mr. George Martin, 61262.

Civilian Personnel Officer: Capt. Sara L. Krus-
kall, 61736,

Berlin Branch (Berlin, APO 742)
Chief: Lt. Col. William J. Wuest, 43957,
Chief, Economics Section: Mr. R. Steinit, 42103,
Chief, Ministries Section: Mr. M. Schafer, 2263,
Chief, SS Section: Mrs. B. Bitter, 42396.

Military Tribunals
(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)
Secretary General of Tribunals: Col. John E.
Ray, 61281,
Marshal of the courts: Col. Samuel L. Met-
calfe, 61147,

Military Tribunal I (Race and Settlement Office
“RuSHa"’)

Presiding: Judge Lee B. Wyatt, 61075.

Judge Johnson T. Crawford, 61074.

Judge Donald O'Connell, 61076.

Military Tribunal II (Special Passport “‘Einsat-
gruppen“’).

Presiding: Judge Michael A. Musmanno, 61585.

Judge John J. Speight, 61584,

Judge Richard D. Dixon, 61586.

Military Tribunal TI (Krupp Case)

Presiding: Judge Hu. C. Anderson, 61202,

Judge Edward J. Daly, 61201.

Judge William J. Wilkins, 61200.

Military Tribunal IV (Ministries Case)

Presiding: Judge William C. Christianson, 61587.

Judge Robert Francis Maguire, 61324.

Judge Leon Powers, 61300.

Military Tribunal V (High Command Case)

Presiding: Judge John C. Young, 61302,

Judge Justin W. Harding, 61303.

Judge Winfield B. Hale, 61301.

Military Tribunal VI (I. G. Farben)

Presiding: Judge Curtis G. Shake, 61611.

Judge Paul M. Herbert, 61608,

Judge James Morris, 61610.

Judge Clarence K. Merrill, 61609,

Bipartite Board
(Berlin, APO 742)
US Member: General Lucius D. Clay, 42481,

Bipartite Secretariat
US Secretary: Major W. E. Mather, 42078,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
US Deputy Secretary: Major G. L. C. Scott,
4

Assistant US Secretary: Mr. Thorley C. Mills,
42291.

Bipartite Control Office
(US Element)
(Frankfurt, APO 757)

US Chairman: Mr. Clarence L. Adcock, 22706.
Deputy Chairman: Mr. Robert K. Phelps, 21385,
Economic Adviser: Mr. Frank C. Wright, 21720.
Legal Adviser: Mr. Richard D. Kearney.
Legal Adviser: Mr. Joachim von Elbe.
Governmental Affairs Adviser: Mr.
Dayton, 21652.
Executive Officer: Mr. William M. Kane, 21063,
Chief, US Secretariat: Mr. Ernest Linde, 22796,
Deputy Chief: Mr. Robert Wallach, 21077.
Public. Information Officer: Mr. Stephen L.
Freeland, 22329.

Control & Fiscal Officer: Mr. Edward L. Mac-
Donald, 21122.
Adjutant General:

21593,
Assistant Adjutant General: Major Frank B.
Golembieski, 21874.

Kenneth

Lt. Col. George M. Weir,

Commerce and Industry Group
Chief (US): Mr. Leland E. Spencer, 21510.

Finance Group
Deputy Chief (US): Lt. Col, Emery D. Stoker,
22881

Food and Agriculture Group
Chief (US): Mr. Stanley Andrews, 22379.

Transport Group
Deputy Chief (US): Col. A. H. Schroeder, 21581,

Communications Group
Deputy Chief (US): Mr. C. P. Rapp, 21703.

Civil Service Group
Chief (US): Mr. Richard C. Simonson, 21374.

Joint Export-Import Agency
(Hoechst, APO 757)
Director General (US): Mr. William John Logan.
Acting Chief Accountant (US): Mr. Moore C.
McIntosh,
Joint Foreign Exchange Agency
~ (Frankfurt, APO 757)
US Member: Mr. Jo F. Freeman,

US-UK Coal Control Group

(US Element)
(Essen, British Zone)
US Chairman: Mr. Robert R. Estill, Villa Hiigel,
Essen, ex. 76,
Production Chief: Mr. A. F. Marshall, ex. 103,
Mining Supply Chief: Mr. J. P. Tipper, ex. 85.
Deputy Distribution Member: Mr. Don E. Wil-
son, ex. 18.
Planning Engineer, Mr. W. E. Fourqurean, ex,
103.

Regional Government
Coordinating Office
Stuttgart, APO 154)

Director: Col. Charles D. Winning, 93551.
Executive Officer: Mr. Waldmar Diet, 93002,
Senior Adviser: Mr. Anton Pabsch, 93071.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Adviser: Economic Branch: Mr. Carl R. Mahder,
93013.

Adviser, Labor and Welfare Branch: Mr. Heinz
Guradze, 93001.

Adviser, Legislative Review:
more, 93008,

Chief, Reports and Information Branch: Miss
Mary Louise Acton, 93016.

Deputy: Miss Myrtle Todd Moseley, 93810.

Dewilda Nara-

Chief: Administrative Branch: Mr. George
Nebgen, 93003.
Chief, Public Information Branch: Mr, James

G. Lyons, 93805.

OMG for Bavaria
" (Munich, APO 407)
Land Director: Mr. Murray D. Van Wagoner,

Special Assistant: Mr. Edward F. Kennedy, 208.

Headquarters Commandant: Lt. Col. John A.
McEvoy, 340.

Deputy Director: Mr. Clarence M. Bolds, 207.-

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Robert M. Connolly,
205.

Commanding Officer, 3rd MG Regt.: Col. Ernest
F. Boruski, 376.

Chief, Inspections Section:
Young, 212.

Col. Thomas H.

Personnel & Administration Division
Director: Col. Fred A. Meyer, 567.

Chief, Administration Branch: Lt. Col. V. J.
Blondell, 568.
Chief, Civilian Personnel Branch: Mr: Schu-

bert E. Smith, 604.
Chief, Military Personnel Branch: Capt. John
J. Kinsella, 583.

Chief, Plan & Operations Branch: Major Thomas
W. Rolfe, 601.

Civil Administration Division

D'rector: Mr. Albert C. Schweizer, 223.

Chief, Executive Branch: Major James H.
McCord, 234.

Chief, Governmental Structures Branch:
Jad P. Bradford, 224.

Chief, Political Activities Branch:
Burns, 219.

Chief, Administrative Agencies Branch:
Charles P. Carroll, 227.

Acting Chief, Legislation Branch: Mr. Jack P.
Bradford, 224

Chief, Field Operations and Policy Enforce-
ment Branch: Lt. Col, James H. Cavins, 229.

Lt. Col. Paul

Economics Division

Director: Mr. Harold A. Taylor, 235,

Chief, Food & Agriculture Branch: Mr. George
R. Quarles, 250.

Chief, Industry Branch: Lt. Col. Jamfes F. Mac
Caslin, 260.

Chief, Restitution Branch: Mr. Otto F. Yanish,
288

Chief, Trade & Commerce Branch: Mr. Paul S.
Nevin, 295.

Finance Division

Director: Mr. Russell R, Lord, 312.
Chief, Finance Branch: Mr. Kurt Fredericks,
315,

Chief, Investigation and Enforcement Branch:
Mr. John R, McCarthy, 323.
Chief, Property Control Branch:

Lennon, 313,

Mr. J, H.

Information Control Division

Director: Mr. James A. Clark, 400.

Chief, Film, Theater and Music Branch: Lt. Col:
William C. Rogers, 3210.

Chief, Press Control Branch: Mr. Ernest Langen-
dorf, 4413,

Chief, Publications Control Branch: Mr. Harry
Siemer, 4412,

28

Chief: Publishing Operations Branch: Mr. Jack
M. Fleisher, 2320.

Chief, Radio Control Branch:
Schechter, 2510.

Mr. Edward

Intelligence Division

Drector: Mr. Robert C. Martindale, 407.
Acting Chief, Analysis Branch: Mr. Charles B,
Blackman, 423.

Chief, Reports Control Branch: Mr. Donald 'T,
Shea, 417.

Acting Chief, Research Branch: Mr. Donald T,
Shea, 417,

Internal Affairs Division

Director: Mr. A.D. Sims, 450,

Acting Chief: Educations and Religious Affairs
Branch: Mr. Martin Mayes, 461.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Dr, E. Ross Jen-
ney, 470.

Acting Chief, Public Safety Branch: Capt. W.
R. Rohan, 476.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch:
‘Miniclier, 492.

Chief, Denazification Branch: Mr. W. E. Griffith,
500.

Mr. Louis M,

Legal Division

Director: Mr. J. A. A. Sedillo, 530.

Acting Chief, German Courts Branch: Mr. Leg
M. Goodman, 546,

Chief, Legislative Branch:
Oberry, 536.

Acting Chief, MG Courts Branch: Mr. Worth
B. McCauley, 535.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. John J. Raymond;

Mr. Bertrand C.

Chief, Legal Advice Branch:

Mr. Leonard J.
Ganse, 534.

Manpower Division

Director, Mr. Fran; G, Loriaux, 554,

Chief, Field Operations Branch; Mr. Herbert
W. Baker, 553.

Acting Chief, Labor Relations and Standards
Branch: Mr. Abe Kramer, 556.

Chie1, Manpower Allocations Branch: Mr. Ab
Kramer, 557:

Chief, Social Insurance and Housing Branc
Dr. Augustus B. Hill, 558.

Public Information Branch
Acting Chief: Mr, H. R. Mahoney, 615,

Transportation Branch
Chief: Col. John R. Knittel, 640.

OMG for Hesse

(Wiesbaden, APO 633)

Telephone numbers 8341—49
Director: Dr. James R, Newman, Ex, 382—B424:

Deputy Director: Mr, Francis E, Sheehan,
Ex, 283—8436.

Executive Officer:
Ex. 216.

Asst. Executive, R. W. Bruce, Ex. 216/8463.

Adjutant: ist Lt. Robert D. Thayer, Ex, 470:

Director, Administrative Services: Frederide
C. Winkler, Ex, 460.

Mr. Ernest K, Neumann,

Personnel

Acting Director:

Mr. James R, Haarstad,
Ex. 480,

Historical and Field Report Division
Acting Director: Mr. Cliff Burke, Ex. 409,
Deputy: Mr, Robert A. Irving, Ex. 247.
Public Information Division

Director: Mr. Hillard A. Rhoades, Ex. 380.
Deputy: Mr. William D. Stewart, Ex. 381.

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 32 ---
{Intelligence Division

Director: Mr. James E, O'Steen, Ex. 330—Ex. 331,
Deputy: Mr. Robert H, Cunningham, Ex. 332.

Legal Division

Director: Mr. Franklin J.
and 341.

Deputy: Mr. Marc J. Robinson, Ex, 340—341.

Chief, German Courts: Mr. Ernst Anspach,
Ex, 342

Chief, Prison Branch: Mr. Wallace Lawrence,
Ex. 349,

Chief, German Legislation, Victor D, Gruder,
Ex. 344,

Chief, Reviewing Section, John C. Campbell,
Ex, 347,

Potter, Ex. 340

Transportation Division

eaiede Mr. Theodore E, Dodds, Ex. 420 and
421,

Education and Religious Affairs

Division

Director: Dr. Harry A. Wann, Ex. 300.

Deputy Directors Mr. Vaughn R. DeLong,
x. 301.

Chief, General Education: Dr. Eugene R. Fair,
Ex. 403.

Chief, Higher Education Branch: Dr. Harold P.
Becker, Ex. 304,

Chief, Adult and Vocational Education: Dr
Howard Oxley, Ex. 302.
Chief, Youth Activities: Mr.

Ex. 306.
Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Mr, Dumont
F, Kenny, Ex. 307.

Austin Weld,

Civil Administration Division
Director: Mr. Male Noble, Ex. 220,
Deputy Directur: Mr. Otto A. Atzert, Ex. 223,

Public Welfare Division

Director: Mr. Sharon L. Hatch, Ex. 400.
Deputy Director: Mr. Peter Stanne, Ex. 406.

Property Control Division
Director: Mr. William R. Rule, Ex. 360—561.
Deputy Director: Mr. John R. Cain, Ex. 366.

Chief, Property Accounting Control: Mr. Allan
Wilson, Ex. 365.

Chief, German Property Control Agencies: Mr.
Victor Cronthall, Er. 362.

Public Health Division

Director: Lt. Col. Charles Moseley, Ex. 370.
Deputy Director: Dr. William D. Radcliffe,
Ex. 370.

Nutrition Survey Control Officer, Dr. Robert
I. Hood, Ex, 372,

Finance Division

Director: Mr, Donald S. Spigler, Ex. 310,
Deputy Director: Mr. Paul J. Zeller, Ex. 314.

Economics Division

Director: Mr. Stanley H. Sisson, Ex. 240.

Deputy Director: Mr. Joseph I. Taylor, Ex. 242.

Chief, Research Control, Harry J. Coster,
Ex. 249,

Chief, Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives,
Theodore Heinrich, Ex. 258.

Chief, Construction Materials, George B. Ward,
x. 271,

Chief, Food, Agriculture and Forestry Branch:
Mr. Saul M. Kat, Ex. 250—556,

Chief, Industry Branch: Lt. Col. Samuel S.
Graham, Ex, 270,

Public Safety Division

as Major John E. Stuerwald, Ex.

Deputy Di. +
Pity, Director: Capt, James W. Callahan,

Denazification Division

Director;
B50 gg, Mt Hubert 1.

Deputy Di A i
ae 30 eget Mr. Arsen J. Yakoubian,

Teitelbaum, Ex.

MARCH 23, 1948

Chief, Field Investigation Branch, Roger N.
Reynolds, Ex. 232 and 234.

Chief, Enforcement Section: Mr. John E. Stark,
Ex, 235—531.

Manpower Division
Director: Mr. Glenn E. Garrett, Ex. 350.
Deputy: Albert A. Mavrinac, Ex. 350.

Information Control Division

Director: Mr, Fredericc N. Leonard, Ex. 320

Chief, Exhibitions and Information Centers:
Mr. Emil P. Jallouk, Ex. 319.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr. Herbert C. Gross,
Frankfurt, 33591.

Chief; Publications Branch: Mr.
Praeger Ex. 329,

Chief, Research Branch: Mr. Morton F. Fos-
berg, Ex. 324.

Chief, Film, Theater and Music Branch: Mr.
‘William P. Dubensky, Ex. 322.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Raymond J. H. Stover,
Ex. 327.

French Liaison Officer, Maj. Langdon Morris
Koblenz, Ex. 233.

OMG for
Wuerttemberg-Baden

(Stuttgart, APO 154)
Director: Mr. Charlies La Follette, 550.
Deputy Director: Lt. Col. Morris O. Edwards,
275.

Fredrik A.

Executive Officer: Mr. Harvey M. Coverly, 542.

Assistant Executive Officer and Adjutant: Lt.
Col. L. C. Cooke, 438,

Governmental Affairs Officer: Mr. Chester B.
Lewis, 395.

Reports and Statistics Officer: Mr. James B.
Larwood, 534

Allied Liaison Officer: Mr. A. G. Robertson, 252.

Public Information Officer: Mr. W. S. Harrison,
386.

Interior Division

Director: Mr. J. Ward Starr, 510,

Assistant Director: Major James C, Andrews,
510,

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Lt. Col. Robert L.
Perry, 545/548.

Deputy Chief: Mr. James E. Hurley, 545.

Chief, Fire Section: Capt. George W. M. Brown,
436.

Chief, Urban Police Section: Mr. Roy C.
McAuley, 223.

Chief, Rural Police Section: Mr. Frank E.
Miller, 240.

Chief, Identification Section: Mr. Louis A.

McCracken, 257.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mr, James H.
Campbell, 548,

Deputy Chief: Mr. William S. Figer, 553.

Chief, Child Welfare Section: Mr. Hedwig
Wachenheim, 578.

Chief, R and DP Section: Mr. Ward A. Miles,
585.

CARE Representative: Mr.
93240 Ext, 219.

CRALOG Representative: Mr. Dwight B. Har-
ner, 324,

Chief, Public Health Branch: Lt. Col. Philip R.
Beckjord, 515/373.

Deputy Chief: Dr. R. Q. Petitfils, 525.

Chief, VD Control: Capt. Albert Dresner, 392.

Chief, Housing and Real Estate Branch: Major
William T. Neel, 465.

Chief, Real Estate Section: Mr. Harold More,
448,

Chief, Construction and Investment Section:
Mr. Herman Brunke, 465.

Economics Division

Director: Mr. George L. Erion, 549.
Assistant Director: Major Glenn C. Hess, 528.
Chief, Scientific Research Control: Lt. Col. L.
J. Brunton, 217.

Chief, Industry Branch: Lt. Col, L. J. Brun-
ton, 420.

Deputy Chief: Major John A. Holbrook, 458.

29

Cline Fletcher,

Chief, Metal, Machinery and Optics Section:
Mr. George E. Copp, 425.

Chief, Textile and Consumer Goods Section:
Mr. Felix G. Stetson, 451.
Chief, Chemicals Section: Mr.

Martin, 224.
Chief, Building Materials Section: Mr, James
W. Butler, 263.
Chief, Reparation Section: Lt.
Sears, 562.
Chief, Trade and Commerce
Frank S. Wilson, 466.
Deputy Chief: Mr. George L. Simonsen, 678.
Chief, Restitution Branch: Mr, Eduard C.
Smith, 348.
MFA and A Section: (vacancy), 627.
Chief, Decartelization Branch: Mr. Otto E.
Hurliman, 339,
Chief, Food and Agriculture Branch: Mr.
Paul F. Taggart, 214,
Deputy Chief: Mr. S. L. Buddemeier, 267,
Chief, Statistic Section: Mr. William F.
Doering, 225.
Chief, Research Program Planning: Mr. Wil-
liam H. Wood, 248,
Chief, Forestry Branch: Mr,
Messeck, 236.
Chief, German Agencies Branch:
ef, German Ag ch: Mr. Kenneth
Chief, Requirements & Allocations
Mr. Joseph Letteriello, 557. ™
Chief, Coal & Mini: Section:
Setowe nee ing Section: Mr, Henry BE.
Chief, Public Utilities Section:
Sprow, 215, Mr. Henry E.

Chief, Reports & Statistics Procure: Sec-
tion: Mr. A. H. Zane, 228, ment .

George D.

Col. BE. W.

Branch: Mr.

William H.

Branch:

Manpower Division

Director: Mr. Edwin F. Beal, 569,

Chief, Social Insurance Branch: Mr. Thi
A. Lapp, 567. Theodore

Chief, Labor Allocations Branch:
H. Keller, 253. ranch: Mr. Walter

Chief, Labor Relations Branch:

(vacancy).
Finance Division

Director: Lt. Col. D. J. Drinkert, 564,

Chief, Private Finance Branch: .
Serum vate ran Mr. John Van

Sat Banking Section: Mr. J. C, Cogswell,

Chief, Public Finance Branch: Mr. Herbert F.
Fraser, 416,

Chief, Taxes, Occupation Costs Section: Mr.
William Gidaly, 2a. tion .

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr, Zinn B.
Garret, 597/Ext. 213.

Transportation Division
Director: Mr. Arthur M. Garrison, 268,

Chief, Highway Maintenance Branch: Mr.
Wilkiam D, Neill, 247,

Chief, Highway Transportation Branch: Mr,
Elden H. French, 535.

Chief, Vehicle Maintenance & Supply Branch:
Mr. Robert J. Stamp, 260.

Denazification Division
Director: Mr, David F. Anderson, 544.
Deputy Director: Mr. Newton S, F~edman,

Chief, Baden Liaison Office; Mr. Walter S.
Leeds (Karlsruhe).

Chief, Ministerial Liaison Review, Mr, F, T.
Churchill, 311.

Chief, Field Adviser & Investigation Brancht
Major James L. Spellman, 311.

Chief, Internment Camp Branch: Capt, John D.
Austin, 472,

Chief, Document Center & Statistical Branch:
Mr. Walter Hart, 231.

Chief, Stuttgart Special Branch: Mr.
Wolfsheimer, 422,

Chief, Tribunal & Review Section: .
Engelbrecht, 625, on: Mr. Curt

Education & Religious Affairs Division

Director: Mr, John P. Steiner 527.

Deputy Director: Major Richard G,. Banks, 584.

Chief, Higher Institutions Branch: Mr. H. A.
Basilius, 516.

John

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Chief, Adult Education Branch: Mr. Ralph E.
Berry, 660.

Chief, Schools Branch: Mr. Payne Templeton,
558,

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr. Karl J.
Arndt, 413,

Chief, Youth Activities Branch: Mr.
A. Shelnutt, 574.

Assistant Chief: Mr. Aksel G, Nielsen, 426.

Leon

Legal Division

Director: Mr. Richard J. Jackson, 259.

Chief, German Justice: Branch: Mr. Ralph E.
Brown, 597/Ext. 263.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. Paul J. Gernert,
So7/Ext. 256,

Chief, Legal Advise Branch: Mr. Wesley A.
Smith, 97/Ert. 274.

Assistant Chief: Mr. John Davis, 597/Ext, 273.

Chief, Military Government Courts Branch:
Mr.’ Carl F, Fulghum, 597/Ext. 217.

Information Control Division

Director: Mr. Nicholas Cannedy, 620.

Executive Officer: Mr. Stuart L. Hannon, 649.

Chief, Radio Control Branch: Mr. Fred G.
Taylor, 93678.

Chief, Press Control Branch: Mr. Joseph L.
Dees, 638.

Chief, Publication Control Branch: Mr. E, W.
Schnitzer, 610.

Chief, Film Control Branch: Mr. John Scott,
378.

Chief, Theater & Music Control: Mr. Wilham
Castello, 621.

Chief, Exhibit & Information Centers: Mr.
Michael Weyl, 93091.

Chief, Intelligence Branch: Mr. John H. Boxer,
630.

Chief, Research Branch: Mr, William Stevens,
270/280.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Mr. Chester B, Lewis, 395.

Chief, Government Structure Branch: Mr.
Harold L. Wyatt, 358.

Chief, Wuerttemberg Section: Mr. Donald S.
Harper, 374.

Chief, Baden Section:
(Karlsruhe).

Chief, Legislative Coordinating Branch: Mr.
Fentress Gardener, 568.

Capt. Henry Walter

Intelligence Division
Director: Mr. Peter Vacca, 541.

OMG for Bremen
(BREMEN, APO 751)

Director: Mr. Thomas F. Dunn, 20686,
Deputy Director: Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, 20279.

Executive Officer: Mr. Joseph L. Payette,
4.

Public Information Officer: Mr. Robert B.
Redlich, 20359.

Budget & Fiscal Officer: Mr. Joseph F. Na-
poli, 20355.

Personnel Officer: Miss G. Sullivan, 23296
and 20435.

Land Intelligence Officer: Mr. Nicholas Metal,
20997

Civil Administration Division
Chief: Dr. Ernest A. Flotow, 20769.

Education Division
Chief: Mr. Harold H, Grabill, 20421.

Information Control Division
Chief: Mr, Duncan D. McBryde, 20149.

Public Health & Welfare Division
Chief: Dr. John D. Winebrenner, 20610.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

Economics Division
Chief; Mr. Osborne M. Taylor, 20120.
Deputy Chief: Mr. Cecil T. Doll, 20487.
Transport Division

Chief Coordinator: Mr.
morgen, 20004, 23515.

Robert J. Sieben-
Finance & Property Control Division
Chief: Mr. William H. Goehring, 20590.

Manpower Division
Chief: Dr. George R. Mursell, 20188.

Denazification Division

Chief: Mr. Joseph F, Napoli, 20355,
23700.

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. John S. Baber,
20929.

23750,

Legal Division
Chief: Mr. Robert W. Johnson, 20633.

OMG for Berlin Sector
(Berlin, APO 742-A)

Director: Col. Frank L. Howley, 43139.

Deputy Director: Mr. William T. Babcock,
43414/43138,

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Charles O, Buck-
land, 43163.

US Commandant, Allied Kommandatura Berlin:
Col. Frank L. Howley, 44919.

Chief of Staff: Colonel Peter C, Bullard, 44915,

Asst. Chief of Staff: Lt. Col. Wilbur F. Maring,
44914,

Chief, Civil Administration and Political Affairs
Branch: Mr. Louis Glaser, 42938.

Chief, Communications Branch: Mr. H. T. Win-
gate, 42614,

Deputy: Mr. C. R. Ballard, 42616.

Chief, Economics Branch: Mr. A. W. Moran,
42987,

Deputy: Mr. D. H. Hair, 43543.

Chief, Food & Agriculture Section: Mr. L. J.
Steck, 43114,

Chief, Industry Section: Mr. H. A. Swanson,
42988.

Chief, Requirements & Allocations Section:
Mr. E. W. Kunkel, 43038,

Chief, Trade & Commerce Section: Mr. O. L.
Sause, 42882.

Chief, Transportation Section: Mr. C. A. Dix,
43064,

Chief, Building & Housing Section: Mr. A. B.
Fuller, 42888,

Chief, Education and Religious Affairs Branch:
Mr. John R. Sala, 42837.

Chief, Finance Branch: Mr. J. F, Kilduff, 42787,

Chief, Information Control Branch: Mr, Bruce
Buttles, 44021.

Chief, Berlin Press Review: Mr.
44800.

Chief, Public Opinion Survey: Mr. H, Herz,
44826,

R. Simon,

Chief, Press Section: Mr. B. S. Fielden, 44806.
Chief, Publication Section: Mr. F. Bleistein,
44808.

Chief Film Officer: Mr. C. Winston, 42213.

Chief Radio Office (RIAS): Mr. William F.
Heimlich, 44815.

Chief Theater & Music Officer: Mr. J. Bitter,
44814,

Acting Chief, Legal Branch: M. A. A. Birn-
krant, 42916.

Chief, Court Section: Lt. Col. L. A. Swoboda,
21285.

Liaison Officers (with mayors) Berlin: Lt. Col.
J. L, Kaiser, 421466/420051.

Neukoelln: Mr. M, J. Kasprzychki, 5910,

Kreuzberg: Mr. C. J. Melchers, 5836.

Schoeneberg: Mr. C. J. Melchers, 3427.

Steglig: Major J. E. Davisson, 43940.

30.

Tempelhof: Mr. M. J. Kasprzycki, 5266.

Zehlendorf: Major J. E. Davisson, 2203.

Chief, Manpower Branch: (Vacancy), 43364/
43087.

Deputy: Mr. G. N. McClusky, 43087,

Chief, Manpower, Allocation Section: Miss E.
R. Hunter, 42051.

Chief, Labor Relations Section: Mr.
Gardner, 44318.

Chief, Wages & Labor Standards Section: Miss
J. Mayer, 42161.

Chief, Social Insurance Section: Mr. E, -L,
Gardner, 44318.

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr.
Nobles, Jr., 42814.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Lt, Col. A. J.
Rapalski, 42764,

Deputy: Dr. Eugene Schwarz, 42738.

Chief, Public Relations, Statistical, and Histor-
ical Branch: Mr. F. W. Shaw, 43869,

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. Ray Ash-
worth, 43949.

Chief, Fire Section: Mr. John P. M. Schmidt,
* 43049, Ext. 27.

Chief, Police Section: Mr. C. C, Bond, 43949,
Ext. 24/25,

Chief, Special Branch Section: Mr. U. R. Gress,
43949, Ext. 34,

EOL.

Joo

Chief, Investigation Section; Mr. C. E,
Westrum, 43949, Ext. 38.
Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mr. W. M.,

Froistad, 42663.
Deputy: Mr. H. R. Studd, 42638.

Chief, Public Works and Utilities: Mr. E. C.
Rohrbaugh, 42714.

Deputy Chief of Branch: Major A, G. Skina,
42715.

Allied Control Authority

(US Represenatives)

US representatives on the various
quadripartite bodies of the Allied Control
Authority are as follows:

CONTROL COUNCIL
General Lucius D. Clay.

COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Maj. General G. P. Hays.

Allied Secretariat

US Secretary: Lt. Col. H. A. Gerhardt.
Deputy US Secretary: Mr. E. O. Oulashin.

Assistant to US Secretary: Capt. H. S. Beu-
kema,

Manpower Directorate

Mr. L. R, Werts.

Secretariat: Miss M. L. Slusher.

Labor Supply Committee: Mr. D. L, Snyder.

Social Insurance Committee: Mr. M. G.

Murray.

Trade Union and Labor Law Committee: Mr.
J, K. Meskimen.

Wages and Labor Standards Committee: Mr.
E. R. Beckner.

Housing Committee: Mr. H. E. Schiller,

Legal Directorate

Mr. A. J. Rockwell, Col.
Mr. S, Kramer.

Secretariat: Mr. E, G. Wiener.

Legislative Drafting Committee: Mr.
mer.

Committee on Reform of German Law: Mr, W.
von Rosensteil.

Committe for the Revision of the Criminal
Law: Mr. E, Schopler.

Industrial Property Committee: Major V. L-
Billings.

CROWCASS, Permanent Commission: Mr. B-
A. Smith,

J. M. Raymond,

S. Kra-

MARCH 23, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
Political Directorate

Mr. Warren Chase.
Secretariat: Mr. R. M. Berry.
Information Committee: Col. G, E, Textor.

Directorate of Prisoners of War and
Displaced Persons

Lt. Col. H. S. Messec.

Secretariat; Mr. E. L, Glazier.

Central Tracing Policy Board: Lt, Col. J. P.
Abbott.

Combined Repatriation Executive: Major J. F.
Asselta.

Transport Directorate

Col, H. W. Holmer.

Secretariat: Major R. M. Milan,

Railways Committee; Mr, £. V. Breitenbach.
Tariff Subcommittee: Mr. B. F. Dickson.
Mechanics Subcommittee: Mr, B. F, Dickson,

Highways Committee: Mr. C. E, Calvert.

Coastal Shipping and Ports Committee: Mr.
J. C, Meadows (Mr. E. E. Krauss).

Inland Waterways Committee: Mr. J. C. Mea-
dows (Mr. E, E, Krauss).

Movements Working Party Committee: Mr, J.
C. Cook, Jr.

Reparations, Deliveries and Restitu-
tion Directorate

Col. J. H, Allen (Restitution): Mr. O, R. Mc
Junkins (Reparations).

Secretariat; Mrs. D, DeKeyserlingk.

Lis Procedures Committee: Mr. F. G.
se.

Reparations, Procedure and Valuations Com-
mittee: Mr D. D. Lee.

Reciprocal Deliveries Committee: Mr. D. D. Lee,

Permanent reparations secretariat: Miss C.
Cole,

Finance Directorate

Mr. T. H. Ball.
Secretariat: Miss G. A. L, Beck.
Banking Committee: Mr. R. P, Aikin.

Committee for Balancing of Foreign accounts:
Mr. H. C. Conrad,

Taxation Committee: Mr. M, A. Monk.
Price Police Committee: Mr. M. Gottlieb.
Insurance Committee: Mr. W. B. Newbold.

Committee for Financing reparations costs:
Mr. H. C. Conrad,

Committee on Financing Occupations Costs:
Mr. M. Gottlieb.

Public Finance Committee: Mr. R. P. March.
Property Control Committee: Mr. E. N. Reinsel.
Currency Printing Committee: Mr. K. V. Hagen.

Financial Regulations Committee: M. E. Tenen-
baum.

Economic Directorate

Mr. L, Wilkinson; Mr, D. Humphrey, Mr.
J. French.

Secretariat: Mr. A. Steele.

Decartelization Working party: Mr, C. R.
Coleman,

Permanent Reparations Secretariat: Mr, W. J.
Bossemeyer,

Industry Committee: Mr. H. L. Berno.

Chemical Subcommittee: Mr, T. A. Rude.

Building Industries Subcommittee: Mr. R. L.
Henry.

Machinery and Optics Subcommittee: Mr. R. E.
Felix,

Metals Subcommittee: Mr. J, M. Kelley.

Textiles and Consumer Goods Subcommittee:
Major Chapinlin,

Fuel Committee: Mr. M. H. Forester.

Gas and Electric Subcommittee: Mr. W. Kelly.

Oll Subcommittee: (Vacant).

Coal Subcommittee: (Vacant).

Technical staff, CFUL: Dr. R, G. Wayland.

Food and Agriculture Committee: Dr. C. H.
Hammer,

MARCH 23, 1948

Forestry Subcommittee: Mr. J. Kircher.

Veterinary Subcommittee: Lt. Col. F, A. Todd.

Research and Education Subcommittee: Dr. C.
A. Hammar.

Committee for Liquidation of German War
Potential: Mr. O. R. McJunkins; Mr. F. G.
Draper.

Trade and Commerce Committee: Mr. F. Phenix.

Export-Import Subcommittee: Mr. D. F. Martin.

Interzonal Trade Subcommittee: Mr, D, F.
Martin.

Rationing Subcommittee: Mr. D. F, Martin.

Price Control Committee: Mr. F, T. Ostrander.

I.G. Farben Control Committee (Frankfurt):
Mr. R. Bronson.

Central German Administrative Departments
(economic) Committee: (Vacant).

Internal Affairs and Communications
Directorate

Mr. George B, McKibbin; Col. Emil Lenzner;
Dr. E, H. Litchfield.
Secretariat: Mr. J, Sexton.

Civil Administration Committee: Mr. E. C.
‘Wolfsperger.
Civil Service Working Party: Mr. E. C.
Wolfsperger.

Census Registration Working Party: Mr. K. A.
Shafer.

Intelligence Committee: Col. Peter B, Rodes.

Counter-intelligence Working Party: Mr. L. A.
Campbell.

Censorship Subcommittee: Mr. L, A. Campbell.

Public Safety Committee: Mr. T. E. Hall.

Nazi Arrest and Denazification Subcommittee:
Mr. T. E. Hall.

Allied ‘ Education
Alexander.

Working Party on Principles for Teacher
Training for Higher Institutions: Dr. F.
Karsen.

Working Party on Establishment of Uniform
Curricula and Programs for Elementary
and Secondary Schools in Germany: Dr.
M. English.

Allied Welfare Committee: Mrs. M. B. Smith.

Allied Health Committee: Col. H. T. Marshall.

Narcotics Working Party: Mr. C. Dyar.

Allied Communications and Posts Committee:
Mr. E. H. Merrill.

Communications Subcommittee: Lt. Col, A.
S. Hoke.

Lines Working Party: Mr. M. L. Knapke.

Radio Working Party: Mr. E. T. Martin.

Postal Subcommittee: Mr. G. C. Scheppler.

Stamps Working Party: Mr. G. C. Scheppler.

Organization and Finance Subcommittee: Mr.
T. E. Nelson.

Accounting Working Party: Mr. P. R.
Gallagher.

Allied Religious Affairs Committee: Mr. C.
A. Olsen.

Committee: Dr. R. T.

German External Property Commission

Mr, E. J, Cassoday.
Secretariat: Miss L. Ragghianti.

Combined Services Directorate

Maj, Gen. W. E. Hall.

Secretariat: Mr. G. B. Robbins.

Naval committee: Capt. J, S. Crenshaw.
German hydrographic institute: Capt. J. S.
Crenshaw.

Air committee: Col Glynne M. Jones.

Military committee: Col. T. B. Whitted.

Meteorological committee: Mr. C. F, van
Thullenar,

Berlin Kommandatura

Col. F, L. Howley; Mr. W. T. Babcock.

Chief of Staff: Col. P. C. Bullard.

Building and Housing: Mr. A. B. Fuller,

Cultural Affairs: Mr.. M. Josselson.

Economics: Mr. D. H. Hair.

ae and Religious Affairs: Mr. J, R.
ala.

31

Electricity subcommittee: Mr. EB.  C,
Rohrbaugh.

Finance: Mr, J. F. Kilduff.

Food: Mr. L. J. Steck.

Fuel Supply: Mr. E. W. Kunkel.

Labor: Mr. G. N. McClusky.

Legal: Mr. W. F, Pate.

Legal subcommittee: Mr. F, A. Tappan, Jr.
Local Government: Mr. W. F. Heimlich.
Monuments and Fine Arts: Mr. C. Legge.
Personnel and Denazification: Mr. U. R. Gress.
Property Control: Mr, J. H. Nobles, Jr.
Public Health: Lt. Col. A. J. Rapalski.
Public Safety: Mr. R. Ashworth.

P.T.T.: Mr. G, R. Ballard.

Public Utilities: Mr. E. C. Rohrbaugh.
Transportation; Mr, C. A. Dix,

Welfare and Refugees: Mr. W. Froistad.

Allied Powers

The grade, official position and address
of ranking personnel of the other Occu-
pying Powers in Germany were given on
Staff Memorandum No. 7, OMGUS, of
Jan. 30, Liaison assistance with these
should be made through the Chief, Liaison
and Protocol Section, Room 140, ACA
Building, Tel: 3316, or the Quadripartite
Liaison Officer, OMGUS, Liaison and Pro-
tocol Section, Room 2094, Directors Build-
ing, Tel.: 42 102 (all in Berlin). The rank-
ing personnel were listed as follows:

France

General of Army Pierre Koenig, Commander-
in-Chief for Germany, Baden-Baden (French
Zone).

Ambassador E. Tarbe de St. Hardouin, politi-
cal adviser to the French commander-in-
chief for Germany, Berlin-Heiligensee.

General of Division Roger Noiret, chief of the
French Group, Control Council, Berlin-Heili-
gensee,

Brig. Gen. Charles Bapst, deputy chief of the
French Group, Control Council, Berlin-Heili-
gensee.

Brig. Gen. Jean Ganeval, commanding general,
French Military Government of Berlin, Ber-
lin-Frohnau,

United Kingdom

General Sir Brian H. Robertson, military
governor and commander-in-chief, Control
Commission for Germany (BE), Berlin, BAOR.

Mr. C. E, Steel, political adviser to the com-
mander-in-chief and president of the Govern-
mental Subcommission, CCG (BE), Berlin,
BAOR.

Maj. Gen. N. C. D. Brownjohn, chief of staff
and deputy military governor, CCG(BE),
Berlin, BAOR.

Maj. Gen. V. J. E. Westropp, deputy chief of
staff, CCG(BE), Berlin, BAOR.

Maj. Gen. E. O. Herbert, general officer com.
manding British troops, Berlin, Berlin, BAOR.

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

Marshall of the Soviet Union V. D, Soko-
lovsky, command.in-chief of the Soviet Mil-
itary Administration im Germany, Berlin-
Karlshorst.

Envoy Extraordinary 2nd Class V. S. Seme-
nov, political adviser to the commander-in-
chief of the SMA in Germany, Berlin-Karls-
horst.

Lt. Gen. M. I. Dratvin, deputy commandiner-
in-chief of the SMA in Germany, Berlin-
Karlshorst.

Lt. Gen. G. S, Lukyanchenko, chief of staff,
SMA in Germany, Berlin-Karlshorst.

Maj. Gen, A. G. Kotikov, commander of the
garrison and commandant of Berlin, Soviet
Sector, Allied Kommandatura, Berlin-Dahlem,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Allied Military Missions

The personnel of the military missions
accredited to the Allied Control] Authority
are listed in the annex to OMGUS letter,
AG 091.112 (SG) of Feb. 28. The letter
states that the US Element, Allied Liaison
& Protocol Section, OMGUS, is the official
point of contact between these missions
and all echelons of Military Government.
The personnel are listed as follows:

Australia

Address: 40 Johannesburger Strasse, Berlin.
Schmargendorf (British Sector), Tel.: 86-4457.

Brig, F. G. Galleghan, chief of mission.
Mr. H. Gilchrist, political secretary.

Major L, McGuinn, administrative officer.
Mrs. P. C. Oliver, personal assistant to chief.

Mr. G. Greenhalgh, officer in charge of
migration.

Belgium
Address: 16/18 Stroesserstrasse, _Berlin-

Tegel-Konradshoehe (French Sector), Tel.:
49-3070.

Lt, Gen. Georges Goethals, chief of mission.

Mr. F. Seynaeve, minister plentipotentiary.

Col. R. Colin, G.S.O.1.

Mr. J. Halleux, chief consul.

Major R. E. H, Buisseret, military liaison.

Mr, L, Jacobs, press attache.

Mr, G, Lonnoy, Ist secretary.

Capt. Commandant D. d’Aspremont-Lynden,
legal officer.

Capt. Commandant F. C. Poswick,
affairs,

Capt. A. Fallas, internal affairs & Russian.

internal

Brazil

Address: 12 Hugo - Vogel - Strasse,
Wannsee (US-Sector), Tel: 80-4763.

Berlin-

Maj. Gen. Anor Teixeira dos Santos, chief
of mission.

Col. Aurelio de Lyra Tavares, executive
officer.

Major Rubens Monteiro de Castro, repatriation.

Capt. Egas Moniz de Aragao Filho, secretary,
liaison officer.

Miss Liese-Lotte Tinoce de Mattos, personal
assistant.

Canada

Address: Commonwealth House, 40 Johannes-
burger Strasse, Berlin-Schmargendorf (Bri-
tish Sector), Tel: 86-4460.

Lt. Gen. Maurice Pope, chief of mission.
Col. J. J. Hurley, counsellor.

Capt. A. W. Clabon, administrative officer.
Miss S. Pope, secretary to chief.

Mr. S. J, Rudland, personal assistant to chief.

China

Address: 62 Podbielski Allee, Berlin-Dahlem
(US-Sector), Tel: 76-5906/76-5777/76-5780.

Lt. Gen. Huang Chi-hsing, chief of mission.
Dr. P. C, Miao, deputy chief.

Lt, Col. Twu Ren-chaing, military affairs.
Lt. Col. Young Kwok-chui, technical affairs.
Major Wei Yao-chi, military affairs.

Capt. Ling Yun-chung, ADC.

Mr. Ma Lien-tsieh, 3rd secretary.

Mr. Liu Pe-lin, attache.

Mr, Hsueh Chi-hao, technical affairs,

Czechoslovakia

Address: 54 Podbielski Allee, Berlin-Dahlem
(US-Sector), Tel: 76-6171.

Brig. Gen. F, Dastich, chief of mission,

Dr. B. Bruegel, 1st deputy chief,
cellor of legation.

Dr. J. Novotny, 2nd deputy chief, ist coun-
cellor of legation.

Mr, B. Sust, councellor of legation.

Lt. Col. J. Sustr, military affairs.

Mr. J. Benes, commercial attache.

Mr. J. Bublik.

Mr. K. Vohrna.

Mr. K. Vorbs.

Miss Marie Petrackova.

1st coun-

Denmark
Address: 49 Potsdamer Chaussee, Berlin-
Nikolassee (US- Sector); Charlottenburg
Office: 48 Tiergartenstrasse, Tel: 32-0596/

32-0390.

Maj. Gen. E. A. M. Biering, chief of mission.
Major P. Juel, ADC.

Lt. Col. H. G. A. H. Wenck, deputy chief,
Lt. Col, E. J. Rolin, commercial adviser.
Major A. C. Karsten, legal affairs.

Major E. F, Lyre, Russian laison officer.
Capt. O. Jacobsen, consular affairs.

Miss M. L. Mordks-Christensen, personal
assistant to chief.
1st Lt. Grete Balle, archives.
Greece
Address: 7/8 Uhlandstrasse, _Berlin-Char-

lottenburg 2 (British Sector), Tel: 86-5581.

Capt. C. Papageorgiou, acting chief of mission.

1st Lt. Th. Ypsilantis, political affairs.

Sub, Lt. A, C, Kazantzis, secretary.

Mr. G. L, Nicolaides-Bourbaki, delegate for
trade,

Mr, E. G, Lykouris, assistant consular service.

India

Address: Commonwealth House, 40 Johannes-
burger StraSe, Berlin-Schmargendorf (Bri-
tish Sector), Tel.; 86-4476.

Major S. C.
mission.

Lt. C. M. D, Pryce-Harrison, personal assistant
to chief.

Mr. K. V. Ramaswamy,
adviser.

Major T. P. Francis, consular officer.

Mr. N. Kesavan, assistant economics adviser.

Mr. R. A. Khan, personal assistant to eco-
nomics adviser.

Sabharwal, acting chief cf

acting economics

Luxembourg

Address: 40 Lusshaeherstrasse, Berlin-Tegel-
Konradshoehe (French Sector), Tel: 49-3068.

Col. Albert Wehrer, chief of mission.
Major Nicolas Hommel.

Major Paul Eichhorn

Lt. Gustave Weisgerber.

Miss Marie Lehnen.

The Netherlands

Address: 7/8 Uhlandstrasse, Berlin-Charlotten-
burg 2 (British Sector), Tel: 86-5581/86-5589.

Maj. Gen. Dr, W. Huender, chief of mission.
Capt. H. F. Heyting, ADC.

Cmdr. J. H. Zeeman, ‘political affairs.

Col. H. van der Vaart, economics.

Lt. Col. Jhr. A. van Lennep, finance.

Lt. Col. N. Naeff, restitutions and reparations.
Col. P. R. F.C. de Bruyn, military matters.
Lt. Col. G. P. de Kruyff, military matters.
Col. A. Millenaar, consular matters.

Capt. H. van Ravenstein, consular matters.

Norway
Address: 11 Rauchstrasse, Berlin-Charlotten-
burg (British Sector), Tel: 86-5671/86-5672/
86-5139.
Maj. Gen. C. J. Helgeby, chief of mission.

Lt. Col. E. Braadland, deputy chief.

Major H, Jacobsen, consular affairs.

Major C. A. H. Gundelach, commercial affairs,

Major W. Brandt, press attache.

Lt. Gerd Groener, personal assistant to chief,

2nd Lt. R. Bergaust, personal assistant to press
attache.

2nd Lt. A. Kollenberg.
2nd Lt. T. Heier.

Poland
Address: 42 Schlueterstrasse, Berlin-Char-
Jottenburg (British Sector), Tel.: 32-3066/

32-3067/32-3068/32-3069.

Maj. Gen. Dr. J. Prawin, chief of mission.
Col. A. Prayboj-Jarecki, deputy.

Lt. Col. S, Gebert, counsellor.

Lt, Col. J. Marecki, consul general,
Col. K, Sidor, military attache.

Lt. Col. H. Mueller, press attache.

Mr. T. Wyszkowski, commercial affairs.
Lt,.Ccl, T. Lewandowski, Internal affairs.

South Africa

Address: Commonwealth House, 40 Johannes-
burger Strasse, Berlin-Schmargendorf (British
Sector), Tel.: 86-5471.

Maj. Gen. B. F. Armstrong, chief of mission.

Lt. G. E, Offringa, personal assistant to chief,

Lt. Col. D. D. Moodie, G.S.O.1.

Mr. A. B. F. Burger, political and economics
adviser.

Capt. A. L. Thackwray, administrative officer.

M. F. Gray, passport control officer. .

Mr. R. C. Bowers, assistant passport control
officer.

Capt. L. D. Jacklin, secretary to passport con-
trol section.

Yugoslavia

Address: 17/18 Rauchstrasse, Berlin-Char-
lottenburg (British Sector), Tel: 91-0161 .

Lt. Gen. V. Holjevac, chief of mission.

Col. M. Hotic, deputy chief.

Mr. R. Radovic, consular and legal affairs.

Mr. Ing. D. Knezevic.

Dr. M. Micacio.

Major Coporda, repatriation.

Lt. Col, Eng. I. Orovic, reparations and restitu
tions.

Capt. S. Skrabar, press.

Mr. Tomicic, commercial assistant.

Mrs. D. Petkovic, secretary.

Consulates

Nine countries have established con-:
sulates in Frankfurt and six more have
been authorized to establish consulates
there. Those presently functioning, with
their consuls and addresses, are: |

ry:

United Kingdom: Mr. R. G, Monnypennt
47 Zeppelinallee.
Chile: Mr. Camillo Riccio, 33 Frauenlobstrasse.
Denmark: Mr. R. Kampp, 34 Brunningstrasse,)
Hoechst.
France: Mr. Decamps, 69 Zeppelinallee.
Greece: Mr. N. Kalamidas, 6 Hochmuhlstrasse,
Hoechst.
Poland: Mr. Jang-Mochinachi (vice consul),
43 Schaumainkaistrasse. 1
Sweden: Mr. Sten Aminoff, 40 Gutleutstrasse;,
Switzerland: Mr. P. Hochstrasser, 2 Mylius-
strasse. .
Turkey: Mr. Ohran T. Gunden, 27 Zeppelin
allee, ,
Others authorized are Austria, Belgium
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Italy and the Nether

lands. \

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF,