--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE OF Uo GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

MARCH 9, 1948

Isseee, STATE: GONSTHUTIONS

--- Page 3 ---
U.S. MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY q
“J
%

THE COMMANDER ff IN CHI

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

GERMAN CANALS—Taken from the
air, the cover photo shows the Spree
in Charlottenburg, in of the British
Sector of Berlin. The part canals
are playing in the economic recovery
of western Germany is told in an article

on page 10 of this issue.
(Photo by Byers)

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest
organizations in the United States. The
Information Bulletin is distributed
without charge as a public service.

The editorial staff of the Information
Bulletin is a section of the Reports
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS. Mem-
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid,
editor; Henry S. Matteo, assistant
editor; Val Green Bowman, writer;
Mary Catherine Sullivan, reporter. Its
office is located in the Reports Branch
Building, 20 Saargemuender Strasse,
Berlin-Dahlem, Its mailing address is:
Information Bulletin, Control Office
OMGUS, Berlin, Germany: APO 742,
US Army. Telephone numbers are
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227.

Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source cited
with the article.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 130 March 9, 1948

Occupation Activities

German Constitutions
Personalities in Public Life
Canals of Western Germany
Army Prepares War Record
Missing Persons Service

Works Council at Stuttgart
Drug Racket Curbed

Press and Radio Comment
German War Documents Published .
Editorial Opinion in German Press
Official Instructions

Station List

CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

INFORMATION
BULLETIN

10
13
14
16
19
24
24
25
32
33

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

--- Page 5 ---
Two American airlines were author-
ized to transport Gtrman passengers
on their Berlin—Frankfurt and Frank-
furt—Munich routes. One-way fare on
either of these routes is about RM 110.

Immediate distribution of RM
1,888,280 for special needs of former
inmates of concentration camps was
disclosed by the Regional Govern-
mental Coordinating Office in Stutt-
gart. The fund was raised from the
showing of two Swiss films in the
US Zone.

Military Government will take part
in an exhibition scheduled for April 24
to May 31 in Munich, showing the
establishment and development of the
new German press in the Bizonal
Area.

The Association of Swiss Students
and US Military Government have
completed a plan to allow 200 uni-
versity students from the US Zone
to go to Switzerland to work on Swiss
farms. They will be paid for their
services and will spend a week in
educational travel in Switzerland.

Under an agreement between US
Military Government and the Centre
dEntr'aide International of Switzer-
land, the centre has been authorized
to ship relief supplies in bulk to the
US Zone for free distribution to needy
persons by approved German welfare
agencies.

German authorities will assume
responsibility on March 15 for in-
spection of air travelers in and out
of the US occupied area of Germany.
The authority extends to all persons
and goods within the jurisdiction of
the German police. It does not in-
clude the military and civilian per-
sonnel of the Allied Forces occupying
Germany, or their property.

Bipartite-Bizonal

Inland water transportation and
shipyard workers have been given

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the same priority category as German
railroad workers in the issuance of
surplus US Army stocks and the pro-
curement of indigenously produced
clothing, in an effort to relieve the
critical clothing situation among these
workers.

The purchase by JEIA of $2,500,000
worth of Greek tobacco under a recent
Greek trade agreement will provide
a blend of oriental cigarette tobacco
favored by many Germans,

Under interzonal trade programs
between the Bizonal Area and the
Soviet Zone, deliveries from the Bi-
zonal Area in 1947 amounted to
RM 77,400,000, as against Soviet Zone
deliveries of RM 64,500,000, out of
total commitments of RM 104,900,000
on each side.

Proclamations No. 2 and 8, con-
cerning the bizonal reorganization
and the establishment of a high court
for economic matters, respectively,
were issued and delivered to the
ministers president and the president
of the Bizonal Economic Council.

A cargo of 1,096 tons of shelled
peanuts from the United States arrived
at Bremen for German civilians in the
Bizonal Area. This was the first
shipment on a 24,000-ton contract. The
peanuts, to be processed by plants in
the Bizonal Area, will yield an esti-
mated 12,000 tons of oil.

More than 130,000 tons of United
States potatoes, being shipped into
the Bizonal Area to maintain the
established ration, are additional food
imports, and are not included in the
original scheduled food deliveries for
the combined zones.

The first eight shiploads will be
distributed as eating potatoes. The
remaining imports will be used for
seed purposes in order to increase
the indigenous production.

To relieve acute fat shortages in
North Rhine-Westphalia, other states
of the Bizonal Area took voluntary

2

steps at the end of January to limit
their distribution of fat to 50 percent
of the call-up for all consumer cate-
gories, except children less than one
year old, and pregnant and lactating
mothers. The remaining 50 percent
of the fat ration was to be met by
the substitution of two parts sugar
for one part fat.

January food imports into the Bi-
zonal Area including Berlin amounted
approximately to 309,000 metric tons.
These imports varied considerably in
composition from the 1947 monthly
average; the January drop in bread-
grains and flour reflected shortages
in the United States, while sugar, fats,
and oil increased significantly.

The bizonal child feeding-program
began operation on March 1 on a
five-day basis, providing a 350-calory’
off-the-ration meal per day to
4,260,000 children. The increase of
710,000 over the previous 3,500,000
children fed was made possible by
the change from the earlier six-day
basis.

The first deliveries of urgently
needed basic slag from Luxembourg
were made to the Bizonal Area. A
total of 60,000 metric tons of this
commodity, which is to be processed
and used as a fertilizer, was pur-
chased from Luxembourg for spring
planting.

The failure of daily hard-coal pro-
duction to regain its November 1947
peak of 260,000 tons was due largely
to the deterioration of the food
situation in the Ruhr and the non-
appearance of goods under the third
phase of the incentive program. The
first deliveries of fats and surplus
PX supplies with this fund were
scheduled for the middle of February.

A rapid rise in the water levels
during the first four days of February
resulted in flood levels being recorded
on the Main, Neckar, Moselle, Weser

(Continued on Page 29)

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 6 ---
VOLUME has been prepared by

the Civil Administration Divi-
sion, OMGUS, of the German text and
English translation of the constitutions
of the German states of Bavaria, Bre-
men, Hesse, and Wuerttemberg-Ba-
den in the US Zone; Baden, Rhineland-
Palatinate, and Wuerttemberg-Hohen-
zollern in the French Zone; and Bran-
denburg, Mecklenburg, Saxony,
Saxony-Anhalt, and Thuringia in the
Soviet Zone. In the British Zone, the
constitutions of the states of Lower-
Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, and
Schleswig-Holstein, and city of Ham-
burg were still] under consideration.

The division of Germany into four
zones of occupation made for signi-
ficant differences in these consti-
tutions. Within the US Zone, there is
considerable diversity due to the fact
that different political parties exer-
cised varying influence in the states,
and that Military Government did not
try to interfere with the deliberations

of the bodies which drafted the texts.
In both the French and the ‘Soviet
Zones, the constitutions are more
uniform since one political philosophy
prevailed in shaping their articles—
that of the Christian Democratic par-
ties in the French Zone and that of
the Socialist Unity Party in the Soviet
Zone.

In spite of these differences, there
are obvious similarities in all of the
constitutions. Basically, the results of
German thought, and continental con-
cepts of cabinet government and of
parliamentary practice are applied in
all of them.

In some respects, these constitutions
cannot express the realities of powers
and competences. The amount of
jurisdiction reserved to Military
Government varies greatly in the dif-
ferent zones. It is undoubtedly small-
est in the US Zone. In economic
matters, the bizonal organization is
exercising considerable central au-

thority over the states.
is no central German government and
no German agreement on its structure

Since there

and jurisdiction, the distribution of
powers between the states and a
future federal government cannot be
regarded as final. But all constitutions
assume that the individual states will
be part of a future Germany.

OR ALL THESE limitations on their
practical importance, the consti-
tutions represent a genuine German
effort to order the political and offi-
cial life of the state. They express the
ideological forces which are evident
in modern society, within the setting
of a defeated and divided country. In
many respects they are not only an
indication of present problems, but
also a preview of the constitutional
debates which may be expected in the
period of federal reconstruction, which,
one hopes, lies ahead.
The occupation forces which took
over the US Zone in May 1945, were

A bloc of Christian Democratic Union delegates is shown at the final session of the Wuerttemberg-Baden
constituent assembly, which was held in Stuttgart.

(Signal Corps photo)

--- Page 7 ---
confronted with political and ad-
ministrative chaos as the result of the
collapse of the whole Nazi system.
Democracy, as a political theory, as
a personal philosophy, and, as a
system of governmental organization,
had almost disappeared under the
force of National Socialist theory and
practice. Basic laws, administrative
personnel and daily operations alike
had been thoroughly nazified.

Government and party had become
so completely enmeshed and co-
mingled that action which was im-
mediately undertaken to destroy the
Nazi Party inevitably paralyzed many
essential public services. The German
people as a whole had neither the
energy nor the tools with which to
create and support a democratic
government. The occupation forces had
to start rebuilding from the ground up.

In the months which have elapsed
since the conclusion of hostilities, the
US Military Government endeavored
to assist the Germans in their efforts
to revive the will to democracy and
to assist that will to express itself in
practical political, economic, and so-
cial forms, Vital to his broader effort
was the specific program for creating
democratic political processes and
institutions,

Basic also was the necessity of
appointing public officials on all levels
of government who, as trustees for the
German people, would begin the long
process of reestablishing popular
government. These officials had to
carry the dual responsibilities of pre-
paring for a more stable period of
democratic controls and exercising the
interim functions of government.

HE FIRST STEP in the reestablish-

ment of democracy was the re-
organization of local and state units
of government. At the outset, it was
necessary that German officials of all
levels should work under the detailed
direction and control of Military
Government officers, but a degree of
independence and responsibility was
rapidly developed, first in local and
then in state governments. At the sug-
gestion of Military Government,
the three states prepared municipal
government codes which were review-
ed, revised, and approved by Military
Government in November 1945,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Scene during debate on constitution in Land Bremen

Codes for county government were
approved in February 1946. Thus the
necessary legal foundations were laid
at municipal and county levels. The
next step was the introduction of
popularly-elected local representative
bodies. In September 1945 a schedule
of elections was prepared under which
municipal councils were elected in
January 1946; councils in the rural
counties in April 1946; and in the
larger cities in May 1946.

It still remained to frame the struc-
ture for democratic state governments,
each with an elected legislature, a
responsible executive and an in-
dependent judiciary. The aim was to
clothe the state governments with
authority and to charge them with
responsibility to the greatest extent
commensurate with the continued
military occupation of Germany, and
the attainment of occupation ob-
jectives, bearing in mind that no cen-
tral German government existed to
exercise those powers which must be
centrally vested.

In February 1946 the three ministers-
president were authorized to appoint
preparatory constitutional commis-
sions. These commissions reviewed
constitutional problems and prepared
draft constitutions for consideration
by state constitutional assemblies. The
delegates to these assemblies were

4

elected by popular vote on June 30,
1946 and began their work in the
following month.

The constitutions of the states in
the US Zone are German in origin,
spirit, and preparation. They spring
from no MG dictate but from the needs
and minds of the German people.
Military Government insisted that the
reestablishment of democracy cannot
spring from a dictated constitution,
that to enlist the whole-hearted sup-
port of the German people, the consti-
tutions must represent their will and
not that of the occupation forces.

The specific process of constitution-
making was guided by Military
Government only through a general
statement of basic principles of demo-
cratic organization which is contained
in the Sept. 30, 1946 directive, entitled
“Relationships Between Military and
Civil Government (US Zone) Sub-
sequent to Adoption of Land Consti-
tutions." The statement of democratic
piinciples was specifically interpreted
and applied to certain provisions of
the constitutions.

The constitutional conventions which
were elected in June varied materially
in party compostion. The Hesse con-
vention consisted of 90 members made
up of 43 Social Democrats, 34 Christian
Democrats, seven Communists, and
six Liberal Democrats. In Wuerttem-

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
berg-Baden the"100 niembers included
41 Christian Democrats, 32 Social
Democrats, .: 17. Democratic People’s
Party representatives; and 10 Com-
munists.

In more conservative Bavaria the
180 members were distributed as
follows: 109 to the Christian Social
Union, 51 to the Social Democrats,
eight to the Communists, eight to the
Economic Reconstruction Party, and
four to the Free Democrats. Like other
democratic constitutions, these state
constitutions embody basic compro-
mises dictated by conflicting interests.

ATHER THAN working through a

variety of specialized committees,
as is the practice in the United States,.
the convention employed a single
drafting committee for the preparation
of the document which was submitted
to the full assembly for action. Prior
to committee action, the party leaders
prepared agreements upon particular
articles, submitted those agreements
to party caucuses and subsequently
referred the proposals to the drafting
committee.

The latter then approved the pro-
posals in accordance with prior party
decisions and reported them to the
full assembly for adoption. Assembly
adoption was usually a foregone con-
clusion but certain questions provoked
lively debates and divisions in the
plenary sessions. The conventions
convened on July 15, 1946, completed
the drafts of the constitutions about
two and a half months later, and then
recessed,

Having been approved by the con-
ventions, the constitutions were re-
ferred to Military Government for
review in terms of the principles of
democracy, which the latter had
already established as the standards
for constitutional adequacy. As a con-
sequence of this review, several
suggestions and, in some cases,
Several required changes, were for-
warded by Military Government to
the conventions, The Deputy Military
Governor then approved the consti-
tutions subject to the general and
Special qualifications set out in his
letters of Oct. 21 to Wuerttemberg-
Baden, Oct. 24 to Bavaria, and Oct.
29 to Hesse.

After Military Government review
and approval, the Bavarian constitu-

MARCH 9, 1948

Attendance Gains at Three Centers ©

. A continued increase has been no-
ticed in attendance at the three Ameri-
can Friends Service Committee (AFSC)
neighborhood centers in Frankfurt,
Darmstadt, and the US Sector of Ber-
lin, all of which started with small
groups in the summer of 1947.

A number of new programs have
been developed: and adapted to the
needs of each community. Men and
women share in social and domestic
affairs, in discussion of current pro-
blems and events, in arts and crafts
and other activities, thus demonstrat-

ing that democracy in Germany can
be successfully applied to everyday
life. Attractive group-work programs,
which include folk dancing, choral
singing, drama, and discussion, offer
constructive outlets for youths and
represent potential factors in the pre-
vention of juvenile delinquency.

In a’ recent two-week period at the
Darmstadt Center, 250 children used the
library, 500 women used the sewing
facilities, and the men in the shoe repair
shop produced 62 pairs of children's
shoes.—Mil. Governor’s Report No. 30.

tion was adopted in its final form by the
convention on Oct. 26, the vote being
136 to 14, with 30 members absent or
not voting. .Wuerttemberg-Baden on
Oct. 24 gave final approval to its con-
stitution by a vote of 88 to 1, with 11
delegates absent or not voting. The
vote in Hesse on Oct. 29 showed 82 in
favor, eight opposed and two absent.

The state status of Bremen was not
established until January 1947, and
hence its constitution-making process
was delayed. Due to its small size, the
existence of an elected legislature
and the confusion that might result
from an excessive number of elections,
the procedure followed in the other
states was varied by omitting the
election of a constitutional convention
and permitting the legislature to pro-
vide for constitution-drafting. In Au-
gust, 1947, a draft was adopted and
submitted to OMGUS. Approval, sub-
ject to certain general and specific
reservations, was given on Sept. 5.
Two compromise articles adopted
thereafter by the Bremen legislature
with OMGUS approval resulted in
almost unanimous support for the
constitution as it was submittel for
referendum, the vote being 79 to 4.

HEN SUBMITTED by the con-

ventions of the three southern
states to the people late in 1946, the
constitutions were ratified.

In Wuerttemberg-Baden 72.2 percent
of the eligible voters went to the polls;
68.6 percent of those voting approved
the constitution; 10.5 percent dis-
approved the document, and 20.9 per-
cent of the ballots were invalid.

5

In Hesse, 72.7 percent of the eligible
voters participated in the election, of
whom 67.1 percent approved the con-
stitution; 20.3 percent disapproved,
and 12.5 percent invalidated their
ballots. As was required by the Dep-
uty Military Governor's letter of
approval, Article 41 providing for the
socialization of certain industries was
subjected to separate popular refer-
endum. In balloting on this question,
62.7 percent of the voters approved,
24.5 percent disapproved, and 12.8
percent were invalid.

In Bavaria, 76.3 percent of the
registered voters participated. The
affirmative vote on the constitution
was 65.7 percent; the negative, 27.2
percent; and the invalid 7.1 percent.

On the same dates when the con-
stitutions were ratified, the state
legislatures were elected.

In Bremen in October 1947, 67.5
percent of the eligible voters par-
ticipated in the referendum on the
constitution, of whom 66.6 percent
approved, 25.4 percent opposed, and
eight percent of the ballots were in-
valid. On the alternative wording for
Article 47 providing that works coun-
cils should have the right of equal
co-determination with management in
economic and personnel as well as
social questions, 48 percent approved
and 44.1 percent opposed the broader
language.

Many provisions in the documents
are taken word for word from the
democratic Weimar Constitution and
the constitutions of the German states
adopted between 1919 and 1923. Other
articles are strong reactions against

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
the tyranny of the Nazi regime. Still
others grow out of local political,
economic and social conflicts and
compromises.

The legislative power is vested in
a unicameral legislature elected by
the people according to the principles
of proportional representation. There
is also an advisory senate in Bavaria.
Provision is made in certain circum-
stances for direct legislation by the
people through initiative and referen-
dum, including referendum on con-
stitutional amendments, The executive
power is exercised under the direction
of the minister-president and his cab-
inet who are chosen by, and respon-
sible to, the legislature.

The constitutions of Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden clearly provide
for the parliamentary form of govern-
ment; the Bavarian constitution is
somewhat ambiguous on this point
and reflects convention sentiment
favoring a more independent type of
executive. An independent judiciary
is established with a power of judicial
veto which German courts have
usually lacked in the past, namely, to
declare laws passed by the legislature
unconstitutional.

ACH CONSTITUTION contains a

long bill of rights—rights that
are guaranteed to individuals or to
groups, rights that are of a political,
social and economic character. In part,
these rights are the traditional rights
of the individual as formulated in the
English Revolution of the 17th cen-
tury, and the American and French
Revolutions of the 18th century; in
part, they are the newer social and
economic rights so much stressed in
20th century thought. Through the
ordinary courts and through the ad-
ministrative courts, these rights will
be protected against legislative and
administrative violation.

At the same time, the constitutions
recognize that no rights are absolute
and that, particularly in times of
emergency, restrictions are necessary.

Among the more controversial ques-
tions dealt with by the constitutions
are: relationships of the states of the
future German government and to
interim authorities, such as the Coun-
cil of States (Laenderrat) and the bi-
zonal economic agencies; the sociali-
zation of industry; land reform; and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Part of the 7,000 tons of potatoes which arrived at Bremen from Maine
aboard the SS American Leader, for German consumption. The potatoes

are being loaded on freight cars.

problems of church and state with
respect to such matters as state sub-
sidies to churches, church taxes and
church control of public education.

Viewed as a whole, the constitutions
Tepresent notable attempts by the
Germans themselves to rebuild dem-
ocratic constitutionalism. The legis-
latures elected under the constitutions
convened in December 1946 and each
chose a minister-president and cabinet.
Thus, at the beginning of 1947,
20 months after the cessation of host-
ilities, municipal, county and state
governments in the US Zone were all
operating under democratically adopt-
ed constitutions and with popularly
elected representative bodies.

In the Soviet Zone, the Soviet Mili-
tary Administration was obliged to
begin managing essential civil serv-
ices through their military command-
ers on all levels of government,
utilizing such Germans as were
available and trustworthy. Cooperation
came most readily from former mem-
bers of the German Communist Party
and from Germans specially trained
for administrative tasks and in com-
munist ideology in Russia.

States and provinces were imme-
diately organized on the basis of
existing traditional units. However,

6

(Signal Corps photo)

certain territorial adjustments were
made in the interests of administrative
efficiency and convenience. Pomerania,
west of the Oder—Neisse line, was
attached to Land Mecklenburg. The
small section of Lower Silesia which
remained within the present boun-
daries of Germany was incorporated
into the Land Saxony.

Brandenburg was reestablished as
a political unit, minus those parts
which are now under Polish ad-
ministration. The former independent
Land Anhalt was joined to the Prus-
sian province of Saxony, and Thurin-
gia was extended by the inclusion of
a small amount of former Prussian
territory. Enclaves existing in the
zone were eliminated. After quadri-
partite agreement on the dissolution
of the State of Prussia, the former
Prussian provinces received state sta-
tus. There are now five states in the
Soviet Zone: Brandenburg, Saxony-
Anhalt, Saxony, Thuringia and Meck-
lenburg.

UNICIPAL AND city councils
were elected in September 1946,
and county councils and state assem-
blies, legislatures or parliaments in
October of the same year. These legis-
latures drafted state constitutions

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 10 ---
which, after review by the Soviet
Military Administration, were pro-
mulgated between December 1946 and
the end of February 1947,

The constitutions of the Soviet
Zone states are almost identical in
their provisions and _ occasionally
identical in phraseology as a result of
the dominant position of the Soviet-
sponsored Socialist Unity Party.

The legislative power is vested in
a unicameral legislature elected by
universal suffrage and secret ballot,
according to the principles of pro-
portional representation. The legis-
lature exercises legislative authority
and control over the administration
and the judiciary of the state. In
certain specified cases provision is
made for popular referenda.

The executive power is exercised
by a minister-president who is chosen
by and responsible to the legislature.
The cabinet is composed of ministers
who are nominated by the minister-
president and confirmed by the legis-
lature and are individually respon-
sible for their activities and must
resign if the confidence of the legis-
lature is withdrawn.

A judiciary is established consisting
of professional and lay judges nomi-
nated by democratic parties and
organizations and elected by the rep-
resentative bodies, While they are
subject only to law, they are not
permitted to question the constitution-
ality of properly-enacted laws. When
the question of the constitutionality
of a law arises, decision is rendered
by a special committee consisting
partly of the legislative executives,
partly of members of the high state
courts and the university law faculties.

The communities and counties are
recognized as_ self-supporting cor-
porations, However, they execute
those governmental functions that
may be assigned to them by the leg-
islature or the state government.
Local governments and popularly
elected officials are fully responsible
to their assemblies and can be re-
moved by them.

The economic freedom of the in-
dividual is guaranteed, but the econ-
omy of the state is to be organized
according to the principles of social
justice. The state government is re-
sponsible for economic planning.

MARCH 9, 1948

Monopolistic private enterprises are
strictly forbidden and certain en-
terprises may be socialized by law or
referendum. Agricultural holdings are
limited to a given size.

Public education is compulsory and
unitary schools must be established.
Higher education is provided for all
without regard to social status or
ability to pay. Religious freedom is
guaranteed. Religious communities
are organized as corporations of public
law and contributions made to them
out of public funds are to be commut-
ed by law.

ACH CONSTITUTION in the
Soviet Zone contains essentially
the same basic rights as the con-
stitutions of the US and French Zones,
Like the constitution of the Soviet
Union and constitution of Yugoslavia,
the constitutions of the states in the
Soviet Zone make no mention of what
is actually the most important organ
of the state, namely the “state party”
which performs the dual function of
being a nervous system for the state
bureaucratic apparatus and of mo-
bilizing the general population to
support state policies.
On the surface, these constitutions
seem to protect the citizen against
arbitrary acts of the bureaucracy in

that the executive is formally sub-
ordinate to the legislative and all
political powers are centered in the
legislative branch as the “highest or-
gan of the people's will.”

Under the conditions where several
liberal parties compete for political
power, the Soviet Zone constitutions
would provide the basis for thoroughly
democratic government under popular
control. The leading party is, however,
committed to the “unitary state” or
one-party system.

Under this system the legislative
branch is effectively mobilized and
controlled by the party, leading func-
tionaries of which also occupy lead-
ing bureaucratic posts, so that any
effective opposition is silenced. The
result is a de facto self-government
by the bureaucracy, the supposed
elements of popular contro] remaining
merely a fiction,

The independence of the judiciary is
also only apparent; they are, with few
exceptions, instruments of political
power subject as much to the manip-
ulation of the ruling party as are
the legislative and executive branches,

The French occupation forces on
assuming control of the French Zone
in July 1945, had also to contend with
many practical, geographical and ad-
ministrative difficulties. Their zone

Brig. Gen. Telford Taylor, war crimes chief of counsel, at his desk in the
Palace of Justice, Nuremberg, holds a press conference for Russian

newsmen who are making a tour of the US Zone.

7

(Signal Corps photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
lacked unity. The southern part of the
zone included the truncated portions
of Wuerttemberg and Baden, each of
which formed a separate state. The
northern half of the zone was com-
posed of half a dozen more or less
disparate elements, remnants of former
Prussian provinces and other German
states, which by an ordinance dated
30 August 1946 was finally organized
into the Rhineland-Palatinate. The
Saar from the very beginning was
treated differently and has since
been separated entirely from the rest
of the French Zone,

HUS, MORE than any other part of

Germany, the French Zone lacked
cohesion. It contained no important
administrative centers; all the pro-
vincial capitals remained outside its
boundaries. The situation was ag-
gravated by existing difficulties of
communications between the northern
and southern portions of the zone.

The process of reestablishing self-
government in the area began in
September 1945. About the same time
trade union activity was permitted,
and, by the end of the year, political
parties made their appearance in the
zone. In May 1946 the communities in
the French Zone began preparation of
electoral lists for municipal elections
which took place on Sept. 15, 1946.
On Oct, 13, county elections took
place for county assemblies which, in
turn, by Nov. 17, designated members
to the consultative assemblies.

In Wuerttemberg and in Baden,
each consultative assembly was com-
posed of two electoral colleges, in the
Rhineland-Palatinate of four: two for
the Rhineland and two for the Palatin-
ate. One electoral college was elect-
ed from all the county assemblies of
the state and the other from the cities
of more than 7,000 population.

The Christian parties emerged as
the strongest throughout the zone.
They held a clear majority in the
consultative assemblies of all three
states. The assemblies convened in
November 1946 and proceeded to
draft constitutions for their respective
states. The constitutions were finally
reviewed, approved by the French
High Command and voted upon by
the people on May 18, 1947. The
referendum concerning the constitu-
tions was held simultaneously with

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The American Overseas Women's Volunteer Service (AOWVS), Frank-
furt'sector, is helping needy families at the Schwanheim displaced per-
sons camp. Mrs. Joseph Schul (right) hands a few articles to a camp
inmate.

the election of state assemblies, leg-
islatures, or parliaments.

In Wuerttemberg and in Baden the
electorate accepted the constitutions
by comfortable majorities. In the
Rhineland- Palatinate it narrowly
missed defeat as did the separate
referendum held on the school ques-
tion. In the elections to the legisla-
ture the Christian parties registered
losses in all the states, but were still
the strongest party.

The constitutions of the states in
the French Zone bear marked re-
semblance to the Bavarian constitu-
tion. The hand of the Christian par-
ties is clearly discernible in each one
of them. The three constitutions con-
tain long and detailed bills of rights.
The legislative power is uniformly
vested in a unicameral legislature
elected by the people.

The minister-president is elected by
the legislature and is responsible to
it. He in turn selects his ministers
who must be approved by the legis-

8

(Signal Corps photo)

lature. The ministers are responsible
to the minister-president on matters
of over-all policy and to the legis-
lature an matters falling within their
functional fields,

CONSTITUTIONAL court is

established to review legislation
and pass upon its constitutionality.
All three constitutions take special
pains to guard church interest. Re-
ligious instruction is to be imparted
in all schools and to be supervised
by the churches. Permissive clauses
for the socialization of basic indus-
tries are included in all the consti-
tutions. Adequate compensation is
required in all cases. Property rights,
especially land and real estate rights,
are safeguarded.

All constitutions give the minister-
president power in cases of emer-
gency to suspend for brief periods
certain of the basic rights granted to
the citizens. In all such cases the
legislature must immediately be in-

(Continued on Page 28)

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
Personalities in Public Life

Patriarch of Ettlingen

By Henry S. Matteo, Assistant Editor, Information Bulletin

MERICA and the Americans are
far from being strangers to Hein-
rich Kauffmann, a member of the Bi-
zonal Economic Council, who until
recently was the self-styled first Prot-
estant mayor of predominantly Cath-
olic Ettlingen since the Reformation.
Kauffmann, now 59 years old, had
his first association with the Ameri-
cans when he was a boy. Clergymen
from the United States used to visit
his father, a Methodist Episcopal
pastor, at the family home in Frank-
furt-am-Main. Between 1910 and 1911,
he attended Drew Theological Semi-
nary of Madison, N.J. and Union
Theological Seminary of Columbia
University, until illness forced his
return to Germany.

Today, white-haired and bearded,
Kauffmann speaks English with little
accent. His command of the language
is good, and he said this has been
helpful to him during frequent meet-
ings with American occupation officials.

Kauffmann has been with the Bi-
zonal Economics Council since its in-
ception. He is a member of the manag-
ing committee of the Christian Dem-
ocratic Union faction in the Council,
as well as vice-president of the traffic
committee, president of a committee
studying the rebuilding of ruined Ger-
man cities, and a member of the
Council's main committee.

In addition to these duties he han-
dled, until a few weeks ago when his
mayoral term expired, the numerous
problems associated with heading the
city government of Ettlingen, a Wuert-
temberg-Baden town of 16,000, several
miles southeast of Karlsruhe.

Elected mayor in 1946 on the Chris-
tian Democratic Union ticket, Kauff-
mann was defeated for reelection last
January by Hugo Rimmelspacher, a
machine factory worker who repre-
sented a fusion of Socialists, Liberal
Democrats and Communists under the
name of the United Parties for Free-
dom and Progress.

“I lost by only 700 votes,” he said,
and displayed evident pride in adding
that his election as mayor in 1946
marked the first time in several hun-

MARCH 9, 1948

dred years that Ettlingen, 75 percent
of whose population is Catholic, had
chosen a non-Catholic for the post.

Recalling his early life, Kauffmann
said he had intended to become a
minister but changed his mind because
“I was more interested in practical
social work.” He emphasized, how-
ever, that his church background al-
ways has been a guiding influence in
his life.

Heinrich Kauffmann

AUFFMANN, who said he “never
K had time” to be married, is
paunchy and of medium height, with
a mild manner and a soft voice. He
wears a large, wide-brimmed black
hat which, with horn-rimmed glasses
and his white hair and beard, give
him a patriarchal appearance. Cigars
are his favorite smoke.

He lives in the once well-to-do res-
idence of his father in Ettlingen, The
long desk in his study is cluttered with
books and official papers. Bookcases
line the walls, and several statues
are scattered about. An easy chair
which he sent to his mother from the
United States in 1910 helps give the
room a comfortable appearance.

Long active as an editor, public
official, labor leader, and political
chieftain until the Nazis came into
power in 1933, Kauffmann said he has
been “an old enemy” of communism.

9

“We are afraid we won't get enough
help (from the United States and her
Allies) to overcome the eastern in-
fluence,” he said. “The question is
whether we can keep these people (in
western Germany) quiet so they won't
become radicals again. You can keep
them quiet with food and such things.”

The Christian Democratic Union, he
said, is willing to cooperate to a limit-
ed extent with the Social Democrats,
“but not with the Communists,”

“We don't want to go the way of
the Socialists in regard to economics,”
he added, ‘We want individual trade
and individual industry to lead, We
can have some socialization in public
hands, such as traffic, coal, and mail,
but not in other industries. However,
in cultural and social affairs, we can
work with the Social Democrats.”

Between 1919 and 1933, Kauffmann
held numerous union, political, edi-
torial and social posts in Bremen and
Hamburg. He was head of the Free
Democratic Union for all north Ger-
many, with offices in Hamburg, when
the Nazis came into power in 1933.
They told him he was “out.”

E WENT to Mannheim and work-

ed there for a time, but a nerv-
ous breakdown forced him to quit.
His father, meantime, was living in
Ettlingen, and in 1935 he went there.
Forbidden by the Nazis to take outside
work, Kauffmann kept himself occu-
pied with the garden and chickens,

After the war ended in 1945, Kauff-
mann drifted back into public life. He
founded the Ettlingen Christian Dem-
ocratic Union the same year, and in
1946 was elected to the City Council.
He served only a few months when
he was elected mayor. Also in 1946,
he helped draw up the Wuerttemberg-
Baden Constitution,

Although he has been defeated for
reelection as mayor, he said he
has enough work “to keep me busy.”
In addition to his tasks with the Bi-
zonal Economic Council, he is a mem-
ber of a German commission which
has been making a survey of economic,
social, industrial, and other phases of
life in Baden,

His usual working day, he said, is
between 18 and 19 hours. He sleeps
four or five hours.

“But I'm satisfied with work and
cigars,” he added.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
ERMAN CANAL systems, con-

necting and supplementing Ger-
man rivers, have contributed greatly
to Germany's commercial and indus-
trial development and are now
playing a major role in her postwar
economic recovery.

The wisdom of interlocking water
highways was seen at the time of the
forming of the first German Empire
in 1871. The development of a
national system of canals and river
transportation was inaugurated to
serve all sections of unified Germany.

This planning was continued, even
under National Socialism. But the
Nazis had a dual purpose in pressing
this development, the first being to
contribute to the expansion of com-
mercial and wartime industry, and
second to add to and serve as an
auxiliary supply line during the war
period.

The canals of western Germany
form a highly important link between
the agricultural, mining and indus-
trial regions of the Rhine River basin
and the great tidewater northern
German ports of Bremen and Emden.
These canals lead from and pass
through densely populated industrial

A barge docks on the Spree in Charlottenburg, in the British Sector of Berlin.

areas where coal and other raw ma-
terials require cheap transport, and
discharge into the busy waterway of
the North Sea.

Prior to their construction, Germany
was forced to depend almost entirely
upon the Low Country ports in the
Rhine delta for the movement of
exports and imports to and from the
Ruhr and southern Germany.

By economic necessity the intricate
network of canals in the northwest
coastal plain was developed to meet
industrial expansion and to retain
control of Germany's exports and im-
ports through use of her own tide-
water ports and enlarged merchant
fleet. The terrain favored canal con-
struction, and engineering problems
were not of great magnitude.

The greatest canal tonnage in Ger-
many originates on the Rhine-Herne
Canal, connecting the Rhine at Duis-
burg with the Dortmund-Ems Canal
at Henrichenburg 30 miles east of the
Rhine. The canal, containing seven
locks capable of handling 1,350 ton
barges, serves the coal mining and
industrial areas of the Ruhr.

HE RHINE, by virtue of the Mann-
heim Convention of 1868, is open
to free navigation by all countries
from Basle to the open sea. Conse-

STERN
RMANY

quently vessels of many nations enter
the Rhine-Herne Canal in order to
load exports for destinations as far
as Switzerland and Czechoslovakia in
the south, and to the Low Country
ports for export overseas. In addition,
a considerable tonnage is loaded on
this canal for eastern and northern
Germany as well as for consumption
in North Rhine-Westphalia state.

Before World War II, foreign tugs
and barges plied the Rhine-Herne
Canal freely and in 1937 approximate-
ly 20,000,000 tons were loaded and
discharged along the entire length of
the canal. Today the economic situ-
ation in Germany is such that German
craft perform all services within Ger-
man waterways which are not inter-
national in character. This is necessary
to prevent indebtedness in hard cur-
rencies and thus relieve the burden
on the British and US Governments.

Destruction of practically all the
bridges over the Rhine-Herne Canal,
damage to locks and their mechanism,
lack of port facilities, and sunken craft
at the rate of one in every mile
have in the past severely handicapped
operations on this waterway. Much
channel clearance work has been
accomplished since the surrender, nav-
igable passages have been cleared

(Byers)

--- Page 14 ---
through all the bridge wreckage,
locks have been repaired, and a per-
missible loaded draught of six feet
has been established which by this
spring should be raised to the prewar
depth of eight feet. When clearance
operations are completed the present
canal capacity of 15,000 tons per day
in either direction will be increased
to more than 20,000 tons per day.

Coal mining is carried on exten-
sively in the area of the Rhine-Herne
Canal. Faces being worked at several
places under the canal cause consid-
erable sinking of the canal bed and
embankments. This sinking has aver-
aged approximately 11 inches per
year for some years and continuous
work must be undertaken in order to
keep the canal breaching its banks
and flooding the surrounding country-
side,

During last August a breach 30 feet
wide occured at Stadt Hafen on the
northern bank. However, the water
there was 18 feet deep and the breach
did not seriously hinder navigation,
or cause any appreciable local
damage.

The canal and mine authorities
work closely together, and the latter
are always ready to place labor at
the disposal of the German engi-
neering organization in emergencies,
as the mines would stand in grave
danger of closing down if the sinkings
were to get out of hand.

Wesel, some 20 miles north of Duis-
burg on the Rhine is connecting with
the Dortmund-Ems Canal at Datteln
by the Wesel-Datteln Canal which
follows the course of the Lippe River
running almost parallel to the Rhine-
Herne. Besides serving several mines
this canal acts as an additional con-
nection from the Rhine to the Dort-
mund-Ems, being available when
traffic had to be diverted from the
Rhine-Herne where bridge clearance
was in progress. This canal contains
six locks accommodating barges up
to 1,500 tons.

A short stub canal from Datteln
serving the town of Hamm has now
been cleared for navigation for 25
miles in the stretch between Datteln
and the first lock. The canalized Ruhr
River was recently opened to navi-
gation after removal of demolished

MARCH 9, 1948

S
Ld %

mn,

SAAR-
BRUECKEN

mega

Map shows inland waterways of Germany

bridges, permitting water triffic be-
tween the areas embracing Essen,
Mannheim and Oberhausen to Duis-
burg at the confluence of the Rhine-
Herne Canal and the Rhine.

ESIDES ACCOMMODATING the

largest of Rhine River barges, the
Ruhr ports and canal system also
handles coasters which ply between
overseas and German coastal ports
and the industrial area of the Ruhr.
It is common to see sea-going vessels
of 250—350 tons capacity on the
Rhine-Herne Canal.

West and north of the Ruhr is the
Dortmund-Ems Canal, made prominent
during the war by the exploits of the

11

RAF which bombed it extensively,
and breached it during a famous raid
at the Glane Culvert. The results of
their handiwork are still apparent
and the canal at this point has been
a continuous problem. In November
1946, a serious breach occurred at
the Culvert, and traffic had to be
restricted for approximately two
weeks while temporary repairs were
made.

The Dortmund-Ems Canal, built to
serve the port of Emden, is an im-
portant artery between the Ruhr and
eastern and northern Germany. It
follows the course of the Ems river
which rises near Munster and empties
into the North Sea at Emden. It runs

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
due north for 167 miles from Henri-
chenburg to Emden, and was com-
pleted in 1899 with a capacity to carry
750-ton barges. In 1942 it was enlarged
to accommodate barges up to 1,500
tons. From Henrichenburg 21 locks
and one ship lift combine to bring
the level down 227 feet to sea level.

T DORPEN, 60 miles north of Be-

vergern, a branch waterway cal-
led the Kuesten Canal connects the
Dortmund-Ems with the large sea port
of Bremen which lies within a portion
of the US Zone, This canal has a
load carrying capacity of more than
6,000 tons per day in either direction.
The major export from Germany
today is coal from the Ruhr, and this
is the primary cargo being carried to
Emden and Bremen through the Dort-
mund-Ems and Kuesten Canals.

Approximately 160,000 tons of coal
per month is scheduled to these two
ports for local consumption and sea
shipment to Scandinavia, Denmark
and Schleswig-Holstein. Imports of
grain into these two ports from the
United States have been heavy, and
during July and August reached a
new high level. The overstrained rail-
‘way system has been greatly relieved
by canal transport of grain to the
US Zone and North Rhine-Westphalia
at the rate of 5,000 tons per day.

From the surrender until March—
April 1947 it was difficult to run
canal barges to Emden and Bremen
on an economic basis because of the
shortage of imports which meant the
craft would have to return in ballast
to the Ruhr. However, since that date
imports of grain, potatoes, pyrites
and general cargo have increased.

The former naval port of Wilhelms-
haven on the northern seaboard is
connected with Emden by the Ems-
Jade Canal. At present this canal,
due to lock restrictions, can only ac-
commodate 10 craft per day loaded
to 150 tons each, thus giving a daily
capacity of 1,500 tons between Emden
and Wilhelmshaven.

The canals comprising the water-
way known as the Mittelland Canal
consist of the Rhine-Herne Canal,
Dortmund-Ems Branch Canal to
Herne, the southern portion of the
Dortmund-Ems Canal as far as Ber-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

geshovede, and the Ems-Weser and
the Weser-Elbe Canals. The course
of the Mittelland Canal as far as Ber-
geshovede has been traced above;
following is its course as far as the
Elbe. The British-Soviet Zone border
crosses the Weser-Elbe Canal at
Ruhen about 38 miles west of the
Elbe. This portion of the Mittelland
Canal is comprised of the Ems-Weser
and Weser-Elbe Canals, From the
Dortmund-Ems to Minden on the We-
ser is approximately 63 miles and
under normal prewar conditions 1,000
ton craft drawing eight feet could
navigate this waterway. Today, the
drought is restricted to a maximum
of six feet and must remain so until
the canal is fully restored to its
normal physical specifications.

HE GREATEST aqueduct in Ger-

many carried the Mittelland Canal
across the Weser at Minden. However,
the retreating German army destroyed
a complete span and today craft are
forced to use small locks for descent
into the Weser River which is used
as a crossing point, and then they
are lifted up into the canal again to
continue their journey to the east
or west. The water levels of the
Weser are subject to seasonal fluc-
tuations which are generally lowest
from July until autumn.

In the late summer and autumn of
1947, it was necessary to dam the river
by sinking barges in the bed, in order
to raise the level to the minimum
necessary for navigation. The level
can also be temporarily raised by re-
leasing flood waves from the Eder
Dam which is situated upstream of
Minden on the Weser. These flood
waves take about 48 hours to reach
Minden where they have a duration of
about six hours enabling craft to cross
the Weser with a greater draught than
would normally be possible. Even 60
during the low water season a great
amount of extra work and time is in-
volved in transshipment of cargoes in
order to reduce the loaded draught.

Reconstruction work on the Minden
aqueduct has been started and the job
is estimated to be completed in the
latter part of 1948 and traffic at this
point will therefore continue to be
restricted to approximately 7,000 tons
per day until that time.

12

The Ems-Weser and Weser-Elbe
Canals carry craft up to 1,000 tons
capacity proceeding from the Ruhr,
Emden, and Bremen to destinations at
Hanover, Hildesheim, Brunswick, Mag-
deburg, Hamburg and Berlin. The main
commodity which is carried on this
waterway is coal originating in the
Ruhr. Every month approximately
120,000 tons are scheduled for the
Hanover area and a further 35,000 tons
for Magdeburg in the Soviet Zone and
for Berlin.

From Bergeshovede to the Elbe, a
distance of 190 miles, this canal han-
dled in the peak year of 1938 nearly
9,000,000 tons west to east and 3,000,000
tons east to west. Today west to east
traffic is being used to the full capac-
ity of the Minden restriction, averag-
ing 200,000 tons per month. Traffic is
active also in the return direction
from west to east carrying cargos of
scrap from Berlin, potash from Mag-
deburg, timber from Brunswick and
ores from Beddingen areas.

HE SHIP-LIFT at Rothensee is a
wonderful piece of modern engi-
neering, enabling vessels to be lifted
or lowered approximately 50 feet from
the canal to the Elbe. Its electrically
driven mechanism is capable of lifting
5,400 tons, and in one direct lift raises
the water basin and the floating craft.
The Elbe-Trave-Canal, 42 miles in
length, is used for traffic from all parts
of the Elbe to and from the Baltic Sea
port of Lubeck, and connects with the
Elbe at Lauenburg, accommodating
vessels of 1,000 tons capacity.

The famous Kiel Ship Canal is
56 miles in length, 321 feet wide,
36.7 feet in depth, and is designed for
deep-sea vessels. Two huge sliding
type locks, one at Brunsbuettel and the
other at Holtenau, can accommodate
the largest of sea-going vessels.
Although the canal is crossed by
bridges, the minimum height of
136 feet from the water level affords
ample vertical clearance. This canal
was designed to allow passage of ships
to the Baltic waters from the North
Sea, eliminating the long passage
around Denmark. Although its value
to the Germans during the war was
especially great, its peacetime value
has justified its construction. In 1938,

(Continued on Page 23)

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 16 ---
Authorities Disclaim
Cure for Disease

Publicity has been circulated in
German recently indicating that
certain German doctors have dis-
covered and have not made known to
the medical profession in general a
treatment for Parkinson's disease (pa-
ralysis agitans). These claims have
been investigated by the MG medical
authorities and proved to be without
foundation.

Most publicity on this matter refers
to the notorious Dr. Karl Brandt, who
was sentenced to death on Aug. 20 by
the US Military Tribunal at Nurem-
berg after having been found guilty of
crimes against humanity and being
responsible for sadistic experiments
on human beings in German concen-
tration camps. Reference has also
been made to Dr. Walther Voeller,
who formerly operated the Queen
Elena Clinic in Kassel, Hesse.

Investigations carried on since the
defeat of Germany indicate conclu-
sively that neither of these doctors,
or any other member of the German
medical profession, had developed a
specific cure for Parkinson's disease.

Dr. Voeller, at the Queen Elena
Clinic in Kassel, specialized in the
treatment of this disease, and by
using various types of treatment
already well known to the medical
profession, was undoubtedly able to
convince many of his patients that he
employed a form of treatment that
was curative and that was not gen-
erally known.

His accomplishments in the treat-
ment of the disease were dependent
upon the widely-known fact that many
cases do improve with treatment to
the point where the patients may be-
lieve that they are cured, only to
suffer relapses.

Medical developments in Germany
during the Nazi regime have been
studied by various scientific groups
representing the occupying powers.
These investigations have all led to
the conclusion that progress in the
medical field had lagged behind that
of most other countries, and that there
were no important developments that
were not already known and being
used by the medical professions in
other progressive countries.

MARCH 9, 1948

War Record Prepared by Army

The organization of Ground Com-
bat Troops,” the first in a series
of nearly 100 volumes describing
the US Army in World War II, was
recently issued by the Historical Di-
vision, Department of the Army, in
Washington and copies have been re-
ceived in the European Command.

This volume consists of six studies
dealing with basic organizational pro-
blems of the ground forces. The volume
was written by Lt. Col. Kent Roberts
Greenfield, chief of the Historical
Section, Headquarters, Army Ground
Forces; Dr, Robert R. Palmer, now
professor of history at Princeton Uni-
versity, and Major Bell I. Wiley, now
professor of history at Louisiana State
University.

The complete series of “The United
States Army in World War II” is
tentatively scheduled to fill 99 vol-
umes. The titles of the subseries are:
The War Department, eight volumes;
The Army Air Forces, seven volumes;
The Army Ground Forces, four vol-
umes; The Army Service Forces, six
volumes; The European Theater of
Operations, eight volumes; The War
in the Mediterranean, seven volumes;
The War in the Pacific, 12 volumes;
The China-Burma-India Theater, three
volumes; The Middle East Theater,
two volumes; The Defense of the
Americas, two volumes; The Techni-
cal Services, 28 volumes; The Ad-
ministrative Services, four volumes;
Special Projects, eight volumes.

In the foreword, Maj. Gen. E.
Forrest Harding, chief of the Histor-
ical Division, War Department Spe-
cial Staff, said:

“The conflict with the Axis Powers
confronted the United States Army
with problems on a scale never faced
before—problems as great in ad-
ministration, training, supply, and
logistics as in strategy and tactics.
The United States Army in World
War II set forth in detail the nature
of the problems faced, the methods
used to solve them, and the mistakes
made as well as the success achieved.

“The object is to provide a work of
reference for military and civilian
students as well asa record of achieve-
ments which deserve an honorable

13

place in the pages of history. Its
value to the thoughtful citizen as an
aid to his comprehension of basic
problems of national security has
been a major consideration. Its pre-
paration has also been prompted by
the thought that in a faithful and
comprehensive record all who parti-
cipated in the Army's vast effort would
find a recognition merited by their
service and sacrifice.

“The advantage to the Army and
the scholar has been the decisive fac-
tor in proceeding with the least pos-
sible delay to the publication of such
a series. No claim is made that it
constitutes a final history. Many
years will pass before the record of
the war can be fully analyzed and
appraised. In presenting an organized
and documented narrative at this time,
the Historical Division of the War
Department has sought to furnish the
War Department and the Army schools
with an early account of the experience
acquired, and to stimulate further re-
search by providing scholars with a
guide to the mountainous accumu-
lation of records produced by the
war.”

Famous Statue Sought

The famous statue of "St. George
and the Dragon,” missing from Zee-
brugge, Belgium, since the occupation
of the country by the Germans, and
sought throughout Europe, may be
found in a graveyard of statues and
churchbells in Wilhelmsburg, Hamburg.

Thirteen thousand churchbells have
already been discoverd there, in the
grounds of a tin works where they
were brought for melting as scrap
metal. Thousands of statues still re-
main, piled together in unidentifiable
confusion, and it is hoped that the
Belgian statue will be found among
them.

The works of art are being gradually
removed from the huge pile, catalogued
and photographed, and will be exam-
ined by experts for marks that reveal
the country of their origin. German
statues which are of a militaristic
nature, and which glorify Nazi ideology
will be destroyed.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Missing Persons Service Widened

One of the most difficult and press-
ing problems of the postwar period
was encountered in the task of locat-
ing missing persons and reuniting
families who had been separated dur-
ing the war.

In the face of this widespread
distress it was inevitable that many
individuals should begin to organize
search services, and even to charge
fees for their assistance. It soon be-
came evident that these small spo-
radic efforts, sometimes motivated
primarily by the desire for personal
gain, were far too inadequate to re-
lieve substantially the distress.

Organizations and church groups,
working continuously toward elim-
inating the abuses and systematiz-
ing the service, quickly organized
and coordinated the many local
efforts, and established central search
service index files. One of the earliest
and most extensive of such projects
was created in June 1945 by the Ba-
varian Red Cross,

By September 1945, the US Army
directed that a central search service
be established and maintained by the
Bavarian Red Cross, Within a month
of this order, a central system uti-
lizing all the existing card files was
established in Munich under the joint
sponsorship of the Red Cross organi-
zations, the Protestant, and the Catho-
lic private social agencies of Bavaria,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, and Greater
Hesse. Before long it was recognized
that coordination between zones was
essential.

The Munich and the British search
center in Hamburg accordingly devel-
oped a cooperative plan whereby
duplication of work was avoided by
the systematic exchange of certain
card file material. Coordination with
the French search service followed.
Later, to make more effective the
search for children, a special file was
created which segregated information
on missing and unaccompanied
children,

As the program developed, service
was extended to missing persons all
over Europe. Negotiations for co-
operation were made with search
centers in foreign countries, with

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

National Red Cross organizations, the
International Committee of Red Cross
in Geneva and with the United Na-
tions Relief and Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration (UNRRA) and_ special
assistance was extended to political
persecutees and others not under the
jurisdiction of UNRRA,

The most recent step in the devel-
opment of an over-all plan was in the
establishment of a German Search
Service (Deutscher Suchdienst) in Ber-
lin, to act as the forwarding echelon
of the Munich and Hamburg offices,
as a collecting center, and as a means
of communication with the Soviet
Zone through their office in Berlin.

The method of operation of search
service involves the registration of
names and identifying information;
processing of requests for search;
correlation of prisoners of war lists;
photographic reproduction of prisoners
of war; maintaining personnel reg-
isters of camps in foreign countries;
and making frequent radio broadcasts.
Costs for the service have been borne
primarily by voluntary donations.

Timber Plan Approved

The timber cutting plan for the
forestry cutting year 1948 as sub-
mitted by the Bizonal Food, Agri-
culture, and Forestry Department has
been approved by the Bipartite Con-
trol Office. This provides for the
cutting of 30,000,000 festmeters, of
which 26,445,000 are earmarked for
the German economy, 2,500,000 for
export, and 1,055,000 for requirements.
of the occupying forces. Of this total,
20,450,000 will be supplied by the
states of the US Zone and the re-
mainder by the British Zone. (Note:
One festmeter equals 250 board feet.)

Fishing Equipment Lacking

Deliveries of fishing nets, ropes,
and twines were insufficient to meet
the requirements of the German
fishing fleets in the Bizonal Area for
1947, Bunker coal stocks remained
unsatisfactory because of transport
difficulties, but diesel and lubricating
oil supplies were adequate.

14

Policy Liberalized
On Resettlement Costs

The Preparatory Commission of the
International Refugee Organization
will pay resettlement costs of eligible
refugees who are not now receiving
care and maintenance.

This policy instruction countermands
the previous limitation, under which
PCIRO financial contributions to re-
settlement movements were restricted
to those refugees being maintained
by it. The limitation was a temporary
measure designed to reduce PCIRO's
care and maintenance expenditure.

The PCIRO decided that, so far as
possible, all persons eligible for PCIRO
assistance should be entitled to be-
nefit from its plans, and in particular
that persons managing by their own
efforts to support themselves should
not for that reason be penalized in
connection with resettlement oppor-
tunities.

Under the new instruction, PCIRO
missions will endeavor to obtain the
maximum number of candidates for
resettlement from among those re-
fugees receiving care and main-
tenance, but will, at the same time,
give other applications equal con-
sideration. The new order applies
retroactively to the date of imposition
of the previous limitation on 18 Sep-
tember.

Also withdrawn at the same time
was the limitation on PCIRO's finan-
cial contribution to the transportation
costs of individual refugees who can
make all other arrangements for re-
settlement unaided. That contribution
has recently been limited to 50 per-
cent of the costs. Now, although re-
fugees, their friends, relatives and
voluntary agencies are still expected
to contribute as much as possible
themselves, the PCIRO contribution
is no longer limited.

Potatoes for Berlin

Total receipts of potatoes in Berlin
from all sources of Bizonal Area
commitments from Oct. 1 to Dec, 31,
1947, totaled approximately 136,000
metric tons, or a supply estimated to
be sufficient to fulfill rationing re-
quirements through April, 1948.

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
Two Zones Simplify
Relief Supply Plan

A simplified procedure to permit
unlimited shipment of relief supplies
from sources outside Germany, ex-
cepting Japan, Spain and her depend-
encies, to recipients other than re-
cognized welfare agencies in the Bi-
zonal Area, has been approved by the
US and British Military Governments.

Joint Export-Import Agency branch
offices are authorized to approve
contracts for handling, packaging, and
forwarding in Germany at authorized
ceiling prices, with a conversion rate
of 30 cents for one mark. Shipments
may also be accepted in the Russian
and French Zones subject to the exist-
ing restrictions on interzonal parcel
post and to regulations which zone
commanders may impose.

The shipments, which will be free of
import, turnover or excise taxes, may
be accomplished in three ways:

li & foreign donor may utilize the
facilities of a firm licensed to negotiate
with a firm in Germany, The German
firm will forward the package to the
recipient.

Baik foreign donor may _ order
authorized gift packages from a firm
in his country which will forward the
order to a firm in Germany having a
stockpile of the relief packages. The
latter, on receipt of the order, will
forward the package to the German
recipient.

3. Bulk quantities of gift-type com-
modities may be shipped by foreign
firms to the warehouse of a German
firm for packaging and forwarding to
the recipient,

Shipments are restricted to non-
perishable foods, clothing, footwear,
household and garden supplies, cer-
tain pharmaceutical products, re-
creational, cultural and educational
materials, and other items for the
relief of human suffering and the
democratic reorganization of German
life.

20,000,000 Books Needed
Approximately 20,000,000 books will
be needed for schools of all types
and levels to fill the minimum re-
quirements in German schools in the
US-occupied area.

MARCH 9, 1948

A crippled Wiesbaden child receiv-
es her first piece of clothing in
years, on a visit to the Hesse Mili-
tary Government detachment in Wies-
baden. The clothing was donated by
families in the U.S. In the photo are
(left to right) Mayor Hans Reldham-
mer; a chimney sweep, and Col. F. H.
Boucher, senior Liaison and Security
officer for Wiesbaden. An MG Ger-
man employee holds up the clothing
for size. (PIO, OMGH)

Coalition in Conflict

Conflicting demands of the coalition
partners in Hesse has raised the
possibilitiy of the dissolution of the
only SPD-CDU government in the US
Zone.

The CDU is insisting upon a limita-
tion of the scope of Articles 41 and 37
of the Hessian Constitution, the former
concerning socialization of certain
basic industries, the latter concerning
the rights of works council to partic-
ipate with ownership in management.

SPD leaders, on the other hand, are
pressing for the execution of these
articles and a liberal interpretation of
their intent. Special committees com-
posed of both parties were selected to
study the vulnerable points of the
coalition and to seek solutions.

15

ACA Authorizes Rise
In Industry Wages

Wage increases for workers of the
railroad, forestry, textiles, clothing
(excluding footwear) and mining (ex-
clusive of coal) industries in the four
zones of Germany were authorized by
the Allied Control Authority on Jan. 9
under provisions of Control Council
Directive No, 14,

Railroad transportation, under the
directive, is designated as an industry
in which wages may be adjusted to
correct maladjustment and eliminate
inequities. Wage rates for workers in
this industry may be increased to a
limit not exceeding 10 percent of the
level of wages existing prior to the
occupation of Germany.

In forestry, wage rates may be in-
creased on an average of not more
than 10 percent of the wage level in
effect at the time of occupation.

Hourly wage rates in the textile
industry may be increased on an aver-
age by not more than 15 percent,
provided that increases for relatively
highly paid or luxury trades shall be
less or none at all.

In the clothing industry, average
wages may be increased by not more
than 12 percent of the wage level at
the beginning of the occupation, that
the wages of workers earning more
than 90 pfennigs per hour may be in-
creased on an average by not more
than five percent.

In mining, hourly wage rates may
be increased on an average of not
more than 12.5 percent. This includes
persons employed in the raising of oil,
but excludes amber production, peat
extraction, and coal mining.

Pending implementation of the wage
authorization in the four occupation
zones of Germany and Berlin, trade
unions and employers or employers’
associations may start negotiations for
the conclusion of collective agree-
ments within the industries as provid-
ed for under the ACA Directive No. 14.

Coal Stocks Decrease
Because of deficiencies in deliveries
of service coal against allocations,
Reichsbahn coal stocks in the US
Zone decreased to an 18.2 days’ supply
in December, 1947.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
HE GERMAN works council, an

important factor in the mainten-
ance of the industrial workers morale,
has become even more vital to Ger-
many's economic stability because of
the current abnormal conditions. It
is the conscientious, effective works
council that helps to sell the worker
on the role he must play in the over-
all industrial recovery program, and
to smooth out innumerable fretting
obstacles which impair efficiency and
production.

A works council is a local and
autonomous body elected annually by
the workers within a plant or business,
The workers may be union members
or not. They may belong to different
trade unions. Although the council co-
operates with the trade unions and
even may be the trade union local on
the job, it deals with many immediate
problems which may not concern the
union.

German works councils have a
tradition of independence and democ-
racy, and the trade unions had much
to do with the development of these
qualities. The councils are the bul-
wark against undemocratic efforts to
build up authoritarian controls within
the unions.

The Salamander shoe factory, situ-
ated on the outskirts of Stuttgart, is
an example of an industry aided by a
vigorous, active works council.

Salamander is a _ widely-known
maker of quality shoes where in
normal times a labor force of 7,000
produced an average of 25,000 pairs
of shoes a day. The Salamander plant
escaped with only slight damage dur-
ing the war. However, the present
labor force of about 4,000 workers
averages only 10,500 pairs of shoes a
day—about 40 percent of prewar
efficiency—because of shortage of raw
materials, lack of trained labor and
inability to obtain repairs and equip-
ment replacements,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

By Nels Anderson

Expert Consultant, Information Control
Division and Manpower Division

HE PLANT management and the

setup of the works council are
about the same as those which func-
tioned before the occupation, and
there is a well-established record of
good relations between them.

A management official, who had
studied his business in American shoe
factories, praised the workers, more
than half of whom had been with
Salamander 20 years or longer.

“They are good workers, but the
troubles of the times are to much,” he
added. “Management cannot do much
about these difficulties. We can make
and sell shoes, but we cannot make
worker morale. We must depend on
the works council for morale. Manage-
ment works with the council as it can,
and together we are able to make
some of the difficulties easier.”

This official gave an example of
such cooperation, which was proposed
by the council to help women workers
who live in distant towns. In three
localities, rooms were equipped with
shoe stitching machines. Each day the
cut parts were delivered to these
rooms and the sewed sections brought
back.

at
STUTTGART
PLANT

From the point of view of efficiency,
this arrangement was termed un-
economical, but it was good for morale,
It has reduced absenteeism among
many of the women workers.

Salamander workers belong to an
old shoe and leather products workers
trade union, which in 1912 won the
tight to have an elected committee to
take the grievances of the workers to
management.

There were many such committees
in German industry. All of these be-
came known as works councils under
a German law of 1920—which required
that councils be established in all
enterprises having 20 or more workers,

In 1930 there were more than 150,000 /

works councils in Germany.

IROM 1933 to the end of the war
all works councils in Germany
were subordinated to the rule of the
National Socialist Labor Front. Many
ceased to exist, but the Salamander
council did not die. Most of its mem-
bers remained on the job and were
unofficially recognized as the advisers
of the workers. “We operated under
the table,” explained one councillor
who had been a member before 1933.
When the war ended in 1945, the
council came immediately into the

The works council at the Salamander shoe factory, on the outskirts of
Stuttgart, discusses workers problems.

(Signal Corps)

--- Page 20 ---
open. It had been already operating
for a year when Allied Control Coun-
cil Law Number 22 was enacted in
April 1946, establishing the democratic
conditions under which the councils
would operate. These conditions were
in accord with the traditions of Ger-
man works councils.

In normal times the functions of a
works council were carried out accord-
ing to the rules of custom in the enter-
prise, or by agreement between the
council and the employer. Many of
the functions were peculiar to the
needs of the enterprise; others were
related to matters common to all plants
in the industry. The problems of a
general nature were then as now re-
solved by agreements between the
unions and the employer groups,

The principal general functions con-
cern problems of wages and hours of
work; sick benefits or retirement; hir-
ing, training, promotion or discharge,
and certain issues regarding working
conditions. In these general interests
the unions deal with the employers
on a wider area, but the council ne-
gotiates with the employer on local
problems within the conditions of the
union contract.

Within the plant it has considerable
latitude to put the rules into effect.
Each case concerning the hiring,
promotion, transfer, or discharge of a
worker involves some special con-
sideration. Each case of a worker
receiving sick benefits, or of a worker
retiring, must be handled on its own
merits,

But the union agreements rarely
cover all the problems that must be
faced by the works council. Each plant
is different and for that reason each
council must develop its own program
of operations.

This is the normal program, but few
of these functions can be carried on
today.

In normal times the serving of a
midday meal to the Salamander
workers was a simple matter, but this
has become a difficult project because
of food scarcities. Nevertheless, this
meal is important for morale main-
tenance, and is continued.

The plant's large dining hall, which
is also a concert hall, theater, and
general meeting place, is large enough
to serve 3,000 workers in a half hour.

MARCH 9, 1948 -

Adolf Rau, chairman of the works council at Salamander, tastes food

prepared at the plant cafeteria for workers.

All members of the council must be
on hand to collect the ration coupons
and the 30 pfennigs for each meal.
This is about half the cost. The re-
mainder is carried by the company.

Getting the food cooked and served
is now the easiest part of the job. The
real task is obtaining it. The council-
lor in charge of this duty is happy if
he can have a two day’s supply on
hand.

Recently the council began serving
each worker with a bowl of soup at
midforenoon. This has paid off in
worker efficiency, but has put an
additional burden on the council.

Once a week the council serves a
Schwabian one-pot meal known as
Gaisburger March, a thick vegetable
soup with noodles, The council takes
pride in the meal, for it is a tradition-
ally favored dish. It also provides the
traditional mug of most, another
Schwabian favorite. Most is a light
fermented drink, of pear and apple
juice, and pinkish in color.

‘VERY INDUSTRIAL employer

knows the cost of a large labor
turnover and the burden of training
new workers. In some industries in
Stuttgart the turnover is about 5 per-
cent a month. Salamander's worker
loss during December 1947, was 2.36
percent. The council members called
attention to the fact that most of
those leaving were refugee workers
who had returned to their home
countries, or to migrate overseas.
Very few of the local employees quit.

17

(Signal Corps)

One thousand, two hundred fifty of
the present force of Salamander's
workers have been with the company
25 years or more, and 42 have been
with the firm more than 40 years.
About 600 former employees are still
prisoners of war,

Among the councils’ duties are
guarding the health and safety of the
workers. The council is responsible for
seeing that every worker is instruct-
ed on safety rules. In every depart-
ment there is a worker who is re-
sponsible for the carrying out of these
tules.

At a central point in the plant there
is a well-equipped clinic with a nurse
in charge. A second nurse visits the
sick in their homes, The service of a
doctor is available on call.

The nurse in the clinic also treats
persons who are not employees. This
practice started during the war, when
the clinic was the first-aid station for
Kornwestheim, the suburb where the
plant is located.

The company has not objected to
having its private clinic serve as a
community facility, because the serv-
ices cost little, and they result in
community good will.

'HEN THE WORKERS at Sala-

mander are in financial diffi-
culties because of illness or other
reasons, they usually turn to the
works council for help. Service funds
are set aside by the company for this
purpose. The works council is re-
sponsible for the distribution of these
funds and for determining whether the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
applicants are deserving cases. The
office of this service is in the hands
of a social worker who investigates
the applications, and reports to the
council and management. The follow-
ing cases are typical:

1.A worker reported that his wife
had been in a hospital for six months
and was no longer eligible for public
care. She would need hospitalization
for several weeks more. He was not
able to care for his two children and
pay the hospital cost. He was granted
a payment of 100 marks a month from
the fund, until his wife could resume
care of the children.

2. A former employee returned from
Russia where he had been a prisoner
of war. He was broken in health. He
was granted a payment of 60 marks
a month until further review of his
case, to determine whether he is
eligible for public aid.

3. A worker, 63, who had been with
the company 36 years, became ill and
had to be retired. At 65 he will be
eligible for public pension and for his
supplementary private pension from
Salamander. The council recommend-
ed that he be awarded immediately
his private pension of 70 marks a
month.

4. An employee died recently, leav-
ing a wife and three children. The
wife died some weeks later. The social
worker took charge of the children.
The oldest child, a boy of 15, was
given a job with the company. The
other two children were cared for
until proper arrangements could be
made to place them with relatives.

These are not regarded as charity
cases. They illustrate a type of rela-
tionship between the works council
and the community. They are ex-
amples of the screening service per-
formed by the council before making
its recommendations to the manage-
ment, and in which the council safe-
guards the funds set aside for the
workers.

As another community service in-
itiated by the works council at Sala-
mander each Monday, about 400 needy
children are provided with a free meal
for which they are not required to
bring ration coupons,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MONG THE PROJECTS on which

the council is working is the
establishment of a nursery where
working mothers can leave small
children during the day. Since the
worry over shopping for food is a
serious difficulty for most of the
workers, the council is exploring the
possibility of setting up a store at the
plant, although the obstacles to such
a venture are numerous. Salamander's
once-fine library of about 7,000 volumes
was destroyed by the Nazis, and the
council is endeavoring to restock it.

A worker at the Salamander plant
operates a machine which presses

glued soles to shoes, (Signal Corps)

Along with its other activities, the
council also concerns itself with
leisure time activities of Salamander
employees. Social and cultural groups
are being organized, and the council
will help them in various ways.

Under Allied Control Council Law
Number 22, works councils are free
to negotiate with employers regarding
the handling of problems within the
enterprise. They may negotiate also
regarding the extent and nature of
council participation in dealing with
the problems of the industry, and -re-
garding the records that will be made
available to the works council for its
guidance.

The right and the extent of co-deter-
mination may be a subject of dispute
between works councils and manage-
ment in some enterprises, but this is
not true at Salamander. Here the
council has access to all essential
company records, even those that

18

relate to the unit cost of production.
The chairman of the works council
attends all meetings of management
as well as the annual meetings of the
board of directors.

This relationship of confidence has

developed gradually through mutual Vv

working out of problems. Today it is
to the interest of the company that
the council should be informed about
the problems of management.

HERE ARE 13 members of the Sal-

amander works council. Each
councillor is paid the wages he would
receive if still employed at his regular
job, although his hours are much
longer than a worker's.

Elections for councillors are held
once each year, according to the pro-
visions of Law Number 22. Officials
of the firm have no part in these
elections. Most of the councillors at
Salamander have been reelected again
and again.

The council, in representing the
interests of the workers, has found a
common ground with the company
whereon both interests are served.

This mutual interest, for example,
found expression in the decision of
the council to support the company in
asking the workers to forego their
customary two-week holiday during
the last Christmas season. The Sala-
mander force stayed on the job, ex-
cept for Christmas day and New Years
day, and that meant the additional
production of at least 100,000 pairs of
badly-needed shoes.

One of the original functions of the
works council was to take worker's
grievances to the management for
adjustment. This function is still car-
ried on. But there are many grievances
that do not concern management;
differences between workers, or be-
tween workers and supervisors. These
have come to be among the daily
tasks of the councillors.

Rhine Restrictions Removed

All major restrictions to Rhine
River traffic have been removed ex-
cept for the Freeman Bridge at
Duesseldorf, which collapsed on
Dec. 30, 1947, after the collision of
a barge with the pontoon supporting
the navigable span.

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
Drug Racket Curbed

WIDESPREAD black market in

illicit drugs and a new outbreak
of international drug smuggling might
easily have grown up in Germany
after the political, economic and mili-
tary collapse of the country if rigid
controls had not been enforced by
direction of the occupying powers.

Drug addiction increases after all
wars. It could have been expected
that increased illicit traffic in narcotic
drugs would be one of the results of
World War II, but through strict exe-
cution of international conventions
concluded between 1912 and 1931,
governments have endeavored to cope
with the problem adequately.

US Military Government acted to
establish narcotic control in the Amer-
ican occupied area in 1945 in order
to discharge the obligations assumed
by the United States under inter-
national agreements for all territory
under its control; to insure adequate
protection of US forces in the Euro-
pean Command; and to prevent our
own and other nations from becom-
ing victims of an unlawful traffic in
narcotic drugs originating in Germany.

Germany's first narcotic control
laws were enacted as a result of the
international conference on narcotic
control held at Geneva in 1925. Prior
to that time the exportation of nar-
cotics from most European countries
was unrestricted. The illicit drug
traffic and the smuggling of drugs
were organized internationally on a
formidable scale, and the situation
was so critical that some drastic reg-
ulation had to be instituted.

Germany was always a leading
manufacturer and exporter of nar-
cotics, and leakages of large quant-
ities of drugs from the country into
illegal channels occurred. There was
no limitation of drug manufacture, and
no system of import export licenses.
The Geneva Convention of 1925 in-
troduced requirements for import and
export certificates covering all inter-
national shipments, and for controlled
drug manufacture, and established the
Permanent Central Opium Board to
watch the course of international

MARCH 9, 1948

trade and draw up global statistics
on the manufacture and consumption
of dangerous drugs.

HE GERMAN Opium Law of 1929

embodied the provisions of the
Geneva Convention and, as amended
following the signing of the Inter-
national Limitation Convention of 193)
by Germany, was reasonably effective
until the German surrender in May
1945. Late in 1945 the Allied Controi
Authority restored the law to effect in
all the zones of occupation.

Narcotic control offices, set up in
the capitals of all the states of
occupied Germany, began functioning
efficiently despite a lack of experienc-
ed personnel, All regional narcotic
control offices in the US Zone came
under the supervision of public health
and public safety officers of Military
Government,

Similar supervision was instituted
in the other zones, although imple-
mentation of the opium law differed
in detail in the various zones, A
quadripartite Narcotics Working Party
of the Allied Health Committee strove
to iron out differences and to compile
reports covering narcotics control
throughout Germany.

Under current procedures, German
public health inspectors make periodic

inspections of premises of wholesalers
and druggists to check compliance
with the opium law and report their
findings to the land opium offices.
Narcotic drugs are supplied to the
legal trade solely on the basis of order
forms which require the approval of
the state opium offices, and are care-
fully checked by them to insure that
the drugs are needed for medical or
scientific purposes. Manufacturers and
wholesalers are required to submit
quarterly inventories of their stocks
of narcotic drugs to the state opium
offices,

The indigenous supply of narcotic
drugs for medical and scientific needs
in Germany is adequate. The factories
have a full production potential.
Morphine is now largely manufactur-
ed from dried poppy capsules and
poppy straw from crops grown in Ger-
many, and no imports of crude opium
are required.

NTERZONAL transactions in nar-

cotic drugs require the approval of
the state opium offices concerned and
the narcotics officer of the Public
Health Branch of Military Govern-
ment in the US Zone, Approval of the
other Allied narcotic control officers
is required in all cases involving

A hypodermic case containing 40 morphine tablets and two marihuana
cigarettes is shown concealed by black marketeers in the arm rest of
(IA &C Diy. photo)

an automobile door.

--- Page 23 ---
shipments to or from their own zones.
This system assures an even distribu-
tion of narcotic drugs in the different
zones and permits at least a partial
check of the income and outgo of
drugs in the interzonal trade.

The German opium law provides
for close cooperation by the judicial
authorities and the police with the
opium offices. All violations of the
opium law which are discovered are
reported to the opium offices and to
Military Government.

At the time of the surrender in 1945
German army stocks of narcotic drugs
were abandoned or stolen all over
the country, and found their way in
small quantities to the black market.
The aggregate amount of these drugs
is still considerable, although this
illicit source appears to be gradually
drying up.

Substantial amounts of German
army stocks have been identified, re-
covered, and diverted to legal chan-
nels, That a far greater diversion of
narcotic drugs did not take place dur-
ing the confusion and apathy of 1945
can be accounted a fortunate circum-
stance due in large part to the re-
straining influence of military occu-
pation.

A large percentage of reported vio-
lations of the opium law consists of
forgery of prescriptions and theft of
small quantities from retailers. Burg-
laries of pharmacies occurred parti-
cularly in Bavarian towns during the
past year, and resulted in stricter
preventive measures by police and
pharmacists. The black market handles
drugs at fantastic prices, but very few
deals in large quantities have been
verified from this nebulous mart.

HE LARGEST reported seizure took
place in Berlin-Steglitz in Novem-
ber, 1947, and involved about 15 pounds
of opium powder from German army
medical stocks which was offered for
approximately RM 11,000 a pound.
Specialized narcotic police squads
have been trained and are beginning
to operate effectively in the states of
the US Zone in cooperation with the
state opium offices. Specialized police
are also operating in the British Zone,
while Military Police have been of
material assistance in combatting the
illicit traffic in all zones, and Ameri-
can CIC detachments have assisted in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

making many seizures for narcotic
violations.

Surveillance in seaports is in the
hands of competent police under the
supervision of Allied public health
and public safety officers. Imports and
exports of narcotic drugs are pro-
hibited by MG regulation.

There has undoubtedly been an in-
crease in the number of drug addicts.
Lists of known addicts are kept by
the state opium offices with a record
of corrective action taken, such as
compulsory withdrawal treatment in
hospitals, the restriction of an addict
to a single doctor or a single phar-
macy, or prosecutions when violations
have been committed,

Transportation Plan Adopted

Agreement has been reached be-
tween interested foreign countries
and the Military Governments for the
Bizonal Area on procedure for inter-
national transportation by motor
carrier into and across the combined
zones, including the routes to be
followed and arrangements for ob-
taining POL and minor repairs. A
permit to be carried on the vehicles
has been designed to prevent entry
by unauthorized persons or for un-
authorized purposes.

Returnee Figures Drop

The returnee clause of the Belgian-
PCIRO agreement, which requires that
an attempt be made by the Belgian
Government to place persons un-
suitable for mining in other employ-
ment before returning them to the
US Zone, has been implemented more
effectively, and the number of re-
turnees thus has been reduced.

The only returnees presently ac-
cepted here are those whose indi-
vidual case records have been
scrutinized by the occupation autho-
tities. Of those who have returned
from Belgium, about 50 percent were
classified as unemployable, and the
remainder claimed unsatisfactory liv-
ing conditions, Belgian living con-
ditions have now improved and such
complaints are less numerous. —
Military Governor's Report No, 30.

‘Mercy-Killing’ Trials Planned

German courts in Bavaria are pre-
paring cases involving “crimes against
humanity” committed by Germans
against Germans in violation of Ger-
man law. It is anticipated that several
trials arising out of the alleged
“mercy-killing” of asylum inmates
will be opened in the near future.

The packages contain about 15 pounds of opium which was confiscated

by US military and German police in Berlin.

20

(IA &C Div. photo)

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
Western European Unity Backed

The need for closer economic
cooperation among free nations of
western Europe as a prelude to the
eventual political union of Europe has
been a recurring theme in US press
comment for some time.

While lauding British Foreign Minis-
ter Bevin's recent analysis of the po-
sition of western Europe in the face
of Soviet efforts to hinder recovery
and to form a European bloc under
Soviet domination, the editorials at
the same time pointed out the inherent
soundness of the idea of western
European unity. Difficult problems
remain to be solved before economic
unity of western Europe is achieved,
but the facts of the world situation
and western Europe's position make
such cooperation an immediate task,
the editorials maintained.

The New York Herald Tribune said
in part: “When massive economic
changes brought about by the war are
taken into account, the new impetus
toward a union of western Europe is
readily understandable.

“Such a union is still far from in-
evitable, despite the harsh logic of
facts which spurs it on. The European
Recovery Program gives a framework
for and an incentive toward closer
economic relations, and these are
finding wide acceptance. Nevertheless,
the current quarrel between Britain
and France over devaluation of the
franc indicates the difficulties which
will have to be surmounted before an
economic union could become effec-
tive...

“Nevertheless, the idea of a united
Europe, even a truncated Europe, is
a great one, and the need for such
union is urgent. If economic collab-
oration succeeds, the practice of
working together should bear fruit in
other fields, and the development of
a practical federation of western
Europe need not proceed at glacial
pace. Historical processes have been
greatly accelerated within recent

MARCH 9, 1948

years and adversity is a stern
teacher.”

The New York Times: “Russia has
been able to force her will on little,
disunited nations along her bound-
aries, but she has not made them
converts to communism. If there were
a real United States of Europe—
which Bevin did not suggest as a
present possibility—moral and in-
tellectual opposition to the westward
flow of communism would be so great
that the temptation to spread it by
military means would be vastly
reduced.”

The Washington Post: “Interdepend-
ence worked out in political and
economic relation with all like-mind-
ed peoples has become the last
chance of our civilization. The facts
admit of no argument. It is not
enough to throw up a third force as
a sort of Atlantic Maginot Line
between America and Russia. That
merely gains time. Preventive war is
equally out of the question, for, even
if this were possible, and even if the
United States won, there would
simply be ashes for reconstruction,
and no vitality left to do it.

“Statesmanship requires that we
constantly and positively search for
unity so intensive and so extensive
that the odds of a Russian gamble in
conquest would appear to doctrinaire
Kremlin to be too wide for comfort.
That would be the most persuasive
showdown with Moscow that Chur-
chill, supporting the Bevin speech,
calls for. The Bevin initiative, as im-
portant in its way as Marshall's,
should excite the same kind of re-
sponse in America as Marshall's did
in Europe.”

The Washington Star: ‘Although
there are many great obstacles stand-
ing in the way of it, events them-
selves argue logically and eloquently
for the economic and political inte-
gration of western Europe. In a long-
term sense, such integration could
speed up the eventual formation of an

21

tial security measure agai
remitting Soviet drive to create an
aggresive eastern federation of sat-
ellite states and to proceed from
there toward the dominance of the
entire continent.”

The Baltimore Sun: “The national-
ism of Europe has become a deadly
poison. Cultural nationalism is not
necessarily a poison: witness Switzer-
land, which successfully embraced no
less than four distinct nationalisms.
Poison lies in political nationalism
which is built on the plausible found-
ation of cultures but then proceeds
to exploit and pervert those cultural
differences—those differences of lang-
uage, custom, and tradition which
give such riches and diversity to
what we call western civilization,

“Europe has been sick for a long
time—politically sick. Health will
return only when her political insti-
tutions are adapted to a great revo-
lution in our material environment
which has taken place during the
past century. Economically, Europe is
a unit...

“Out of the disjointed confusion of
European nationalism must be built a
new organism—political, military and
economic—before Europe can be cap-
able of dealing with Russia—and with
the United States, too, for that matter
—on terms of equality. The moment
for action has arrived. The seed is
germinating.”

The Hartford Courant: “Unless
Europe achieves at least economic
integration it will be rebuilding only
a house of cards, which can at any
time again collapse in war.... We
cannot order Europe to do our bid-
ding, and must be discreet about tying
strings to the ERP. But we must let
European nations know that we hold
their economic harmony to be essen-
tial to recovery.”

_ The Cleveland Plain Dealer: “By
some, union of western Europe is
pictured almost exclusively as an
alliance against communism. This is

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
a backward approach to it. That it
may become, but only to a degree
that it succeeds in being what those
who approach it positively have in
mind, a means of making the econ-
omy of western Europe function. The
communist menace will be scotched
when Europe is again economically
sound. It is on constructive, economic
aspects of federation that the em-
phasis should be placed.”

One of few newspapers taking a
cold view of Bevin's statement was
the Miami Herald which concluded:
“Foreign Minister Bevin's call for a
united western Europe against Rus-
sian dominance was not directed so
much toward frightening off the Reds
or stiffening the spines of broken-
down European governments as it was
to keep American fear psychosis at
fever pitch, so that it ‘can carry
Congress toward the heights’ of set-
ting up the $ 17,000,000,000 Marshall
Plan.

“It is enough to have to take all
this from Washington. To get it from
London is a bit too much.”

The New York News: “Here's luck
to Bevin's “Western Union’ and we
hope he gets it ‘going, and that
thereafter it develops into a genuine
United States of western Europe or
of all Europe. Nothing European, so
far as we can figure out, would be
a bigger boon to the US taxpayer.

“But let's not assume that the
“Western Union’ is in existence now,
and go all wet-eyed and over-gen-
erous just because Bevin has fur-
nished a blueprint. Let's wait for
some concrete results.”

Tine Washington Daily News said
Secretary of State Marshall's reply
to criticism of plant dismantling in
Germany for the reparation accounts
“seems to us reasonable and con-
vincing,” adding:

“In effect he reaffirms the general
policy but agrees to re-examine its
application to prevent possible con-
flict with the ERP. This conflict, which
critics have stressed, is more apparent
than real in most cases. At first blush
it seems absurd to be destroying
Germany's industrial capacity with
one hand, and at the same time trying
to build up with the other hand and
with American dollars her capacity

INFORMATION BULLETIN

for self-support. But these two oper-
ations need not be contradictory...

“After World War I Germany nom-
inally paid large long term rep-
arations; but American loans, later
defaulted, actually paid the bill—and
in so doing re-quipped Germany with
the most modern industrial plant.
This time we wisely chose to keep
reparations within manageable limits
and to take the maximum in the form
of German military equipment and
excess industrial plants, rather than
out of current production...

“So there are two reasons for the
present policy. One is that it is the
lesser of evils, as proved by past
experience. The other is that we are
bound by an agreement with our
western European Allies which we
cannot break without disastrous con-
sequences. We do not have to worry
about Russia in this connection, be-
cause she already has broken the
agreement and we have shut off plant
shipments from our zone to her, in
retaliation; but should not put our-
selves in her class of bad faith.

“On the economic side, Britain,
France, Belgium, the Netherlands and
others must have machinery for in-
dustrial recovery. That machinery
must come either from Germany or
from the United States. In some
cases the German type is more adapt-
able to western European needs,
and in other cases American ma-
chinery is not available. Therefore
European -self-help, which we made
a condition for American aid under
the Marshall Plan, would be crippled
if German reparations in the form
of dismantled plants were shut off.

“Nevertheless, this wise policy,
like any other, can be maladminister-
ed to the point it becomes self-
defeating. It is necessary to draw a
line between plants that should be
dismantled for demilitarization pur-
poses and those required for peace.
Even in the peace plants it is nec-
essary to determine whether a given
plant can contribute more and quicker
to western European recovery if left
in Germany, or if sent to France or
some other neighbor. And such ques-
tions are not easy to answer.

“We agree with the critics that
some of the dismantled plants might

22

better have remained in Germany for
immediate European recovery, and
later to produce for repayment of
American occupation costs. A review
of the entire administration of this
policy, now pledged by the State
Department, should produce better
results.

“Timely is the word for Secretary
Marhall's reply, said the Christian
Science Monitor. It continued:

“These (German) factories, it is said,
are needed to help Germany get back
on its feet. Since German recovery
is part of the Marshall Plan for Euro-
pean recovery, what could seem
more obvious that German industrial
power should be preserved to base
the European recovery program? This
argument ignores political necessities.
But it can also be answered on econo-
mic grounds.

“Dismantling of certain German
plants is the cheapest way to put
machinery in the hands of other
European producers who must have
it either from German or American
sources. To produce it from the latter
means a further increase in demands
for scarce dollars. It means further
pressures on the American output,
which already is lagging behind do-
mestic demands. It also means that
Europe must adapt American machines
to European purposes, which is a
more complex task than adapting the
German machines. This is part of the
economic actuality on which Secre-
tary Marshall has based his reply...

“At this point, it leads logically to
consideration of political necessities.
The first of these is that western
European unity must be preserved,
indeed increased, to assure success of
the Marshall Plan. The way to smash
that unity will be to frighten France
and other victims of Nazi aggression
by policies which threaten to restore
German industrial power ahead of
that of the rest of Europe. To stop
dismantling of German plants would
be out of line with the economic and
political thinking of most of the
nations with whom the US seeks co-
cperation against communization of
Europe. Americans are indebted to
Secretary Marshall for making this
clear.”

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 26 ---
(Continued from Page 12)
Canals of Western Germany

53,530 vessels passed through this
canal with a total of 22,500,000 tons of
cargo.

The Ludwig Canal in southeast Ger-
many is of more historical than com-
mercial importance. Connecting the
Rhine with the Danube through the
Main and Altmuhl Rivers, it was
constructed by King Ludwig of Bavaria
between 1836 and 1846 to unite the
Black Sea with the North Sea. How-
ever, today it is considered impractical
to use because of its capacity for only
120 ton craft and the fact that the
canal bed is highly pervious, which
makes navigable depths very un-
dependable,

The Nazis planned and started prior
to the war a new canal to be known
as the Rhine-Main-Danube which
would permit passage of craft up to
1,500 tons. However, the project was
never completed. This proposed canal
was to be 320 miles long extending
from Mainz on the Main River to
Passau on the Danube, and would have
been one of the most important water
links in Europe.

The economic benefit to Germany
of her canal system interconnecting
her navigable rivers and the great
North Sea ports is almost incalculable.
As a prewar picture Germany's canal
system extended 1,383 miles, supple-
menting her 6,700 miles of navigable
rivers. More than 18,000 vessels plied
these waterways each year before the
war, moving 130,000,000 tons of cargo
which was about two tons for every
person in Germany.

T THE CESSATION of hostilities
in May 1945, inland water trans-
portation in Germany was at a com-
plete standstill. More than 90 percent of
the roadand railroad bridges over these
waterways were down, and two-thirds
of the craft were wrecked and sunk.
The operational capacity of every port
was less than 25 percent of its peace-
time level, and craft repair facilities
were about 60 percent destroyed.

The importance of immediate resto-
ration of these facilities was realized
and the early and effective results ob-
tained is evidenced by the fact that
23 percent of the prewar volume was

MARCH 9, 1948

transported on inland waterways in
the British-US Zones, during 1946 or
23,000,000 tons as compared with
101,000,000 tons during 1938.

Of the present day total tonnage
transported in the Bizonal Area, on
through hauls, approximately five per-
cent is moved on these canals. Based
on ton miles this percentage would
be semewhat higher in view of the
greater length of hauls as compared to
the short shuttle services by other
means of transportation.

Although not so rapid a mode of
transportation as highway or rail, water
transportation through the German
canal system is an essential element
of the German economy for hauling
bulk and raw materials, by virtue of its
high overall capacity and low cost per
transport mile.

This network of German canals is
also of international importance, both
in an economical as well as a political
sense, in that Germany can control
her own export and import traffic. By
their use Germany can fully utilize
her own North Sea port and shipping
facilities.

Parole Plan Adopted

German authorities have inaugur-
ated a program of parole for certain
categories of prisoners, chiefly ju-
veniles and first offenders, and of
probation sentences in lieu of im-
prisonment. Under the new system
these offenders are put under the
general supervision of trained wel-
fare workers in their home com-
munities.

The program is in operation in Nur-
emberg and Augsburg, Bavaria, and
in Bremen, Bavarian authorities have
indicated that if the experiment con-
tinues to be succesful, they will re-
commend the adoption of a parole and
probation law to be effective through-
out that Land. One handicap at pre-
sent is the shortage of trained wel-
fare workers to exercise supervision
over such probationers and parolees.

In Wuerttemberg-Baden the Min-
istry of Justice has submitted a
parole plan which will permit release
of certain prisoners whose sentences
do not exceed one year, under certain
conditions.

23

Bipartite-Land OMG
Tieup Authorized

Certain direct relationships be-
tween the Bipartite Control Office in
Frankfurt and the Land OMG’s are
authorized by OMGUS directive AG
381 (SG) of Feb. 9. The text of the
directive is as follows:

1. The US Chairman, Bipartite
Control Office, is hereby authorized
to maintain direct relationships with
the respective Land Offices of Mili-
tary Government wth respect to the
economic functions within the respon-
sibilities of the Bipartite Control
Office.

2. Relationships with the Land
Offices of Military Government on
such economic affairs shall normally
be conducted through Bipartite Con-
trol Office, and the US Chairman
thereof may request the Land Offices
to take action and to make reports,
as required, in connection with the
execution of Bipartite and Bizonal
programs. Requests for reports shall
be in accordance with existing reports
control procedures,

3. The Deputy Military Governor
shall be kept currently informed by
the US Chairman of the Bipartite
Control Office of action taken with
respect to the Land Offices, as pro-
vided in paragraphs 1 and 2, above,
and reserves final responsibility for
the conduct and administration of the
Land Offices. The US Chairman shall
also be responsible for providing
currently to the Land Directors copies
of Bizonal legislation, implementing
regulations, and other information
affecting the Land governments.

4, The director of any Land Office
may appeal to the Deputy Military
Governor the exercise of authority as
delegated in paragraphs 1 and 2,
above, when action pursuant thereto
would seriously impede accomplish-
ment of his non-economic respon-
sibilities, or for other reasons as he
may determine.

Student Council Drive
Many vocational schools in Wuert-
temberg-Baden are attempting to in-
troduce some form of a student coun-
cil. This is largely the result of a
directive from the Ministry of Culture.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
German War Documents Published

The US State Department announced
in Washington the publication of a
volume of German war documents
bearing on Soviet-German relations
during the period 1939—41, These doc-
uments are a part of the great mass
of materials from the German Foreign
Office which were captured by the
British and American armies toward
the end of the war.

As has been previously announced,
the State Department, along with the
British and French Officers, is spon-
soring the publication of a series of

come public. To complete the record,
the department has decided to publish
at this time in a single volume the
material bearing on this subject. The
documents contained in this series
will eventually reappear in various
articles of the regular tripartite
publication.

The papers in the present volume
have been selected by the American
editors of the German war documents
project, Raymond J. Sontag and
James S. Beddie, who have had com-
plete independence in their work and

Soviet Foreign Minister V. M. Molotov (left) is shown with Adolf Hitler

during Molotov’s state visit to Berlin in 1940.

volumes of documents from the ar-
chives of the German Foreign Office
with a view to giving a complete and
accurate account of German diplomacy
relating to World War II for the
enlightenment of American and world
opinion, The first two volumes of
the series, beginning with 1937, is
expected to be published within the
next year,

The series is planned as a tripartite
enterprise under the joint auspices
of the American, British and French
Governments. However, the individ-
ual participating powers are free to
publish separately any portion of the
documents,

Some of the documents on Soviet-
German relations have already be-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Signal Corps Photo
from Ribbentrop album)

final responsibility for the selection
of the documents.

The volume opens with a memoran-
dum of State Secretary Weizsacker of
the German Foreign Office, date
April 7, 1939, recording a discussion
with the Soviet Ambassador Mereka-
lov on the possibility of cultivating
and expanding economic relations be-
tween the two nations.

It closes with the memorandum of
a conversation between German
Foreign Minister Schmidt and Soviet
Ambassador Dekanosov on June 22,
1941, in which Schmidt informed the
ambassador that the hostile attitude
of the Soviet Government had forced

24

AVA AEGUADGENUUOUEEAAUUOUEAUUA EEE EEE
School Children See
“The Roosevelt Story‘‘

At the request of German ed-
ucators, Berlin school children
and their teachers received a
lesson in history and biography
in the form of a special showing
of “The Roosevelt Story,” the
dramatic documentary on the life
of the late President.

The performance, arranged by
the American Veterans Committee
in cooperation with the Education
Branch of OMG Berlin Sector,
was attended by more than
1,800 children and_ teachers,
filling Titania Palast, the US Sec-
tor's largest auditorium.
EMM EM

Germany to military countermeasures.

Between those two dates the docu-
ments trace a maze of economic and
political negotiations before the out-
break of war and after the German
armies overran Europe. The docu-
ments include hitherto unpublished
letters and memoranda recording
views and statements of Hitler, Rib-
bentrop, Mussolini, Matsuoka, Molo-
tov, and Stalin.

The volume is divided into the
following nine sections:

Tentative efforts to improve Ger-
man-Soviet relations, April 17 to
Aug. 24, 1939.

The agreement achieved between
Aug. 14 and 23, 1939.

The pact executed and amended
between Aug. 23 and Sept. 28, 1939.

German-Soviet cooperation from
Oct. 2, 1939 to May 29, 1940.

Friction in the Baltic and Balkans
from June 4 to Sept. 21, 1940.

Russia and the Three Power Pact
during the period of Sept. 25 to
Nov. 26, 1940.

Soviet resistance to the German
advance in the Balkans, from Dec. 18,
1940 to March 13, 1941.

Soviet treaties with Yugoslavia and
Japan, March 25 to April 13, 1941,

The failure of efforts to preserve
peace between April 15 and June 22,
1941.

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 28 ---
- EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

The city government in Bremen
created a press office to channel all
information from municipal author-
ities, and forbade all other officials
to answer press inquiries. The Nord-
see-Zeitung took issue with the
authorities on their action and
declared that:

“With today's edition the Nordsee-
Zeitung stops reporting on municipal
affairs . . . until the decree about the
centralizing and censoring of city
news is abolished. In place of that
kind of local reports, it will publish
amusing short stories and mouth-
watering cooking recipes...

“No argument is strong enough to
justify (such) a prohibition . . . Since
1945 one has tried time and again to
act contrary to this important section
of the practice of press freedom. But
the attempt nowhere succeeded...
Is Bremerhaven so isolated that it
does not know that?

“This is no local issue, but a matter
that concerns all newspapers in
Germany . . . To sum up, we declare
that: (1) The press as an independent
public organ has an indisputable
right to deal directly with public
servants; (2) it is of the most regret-
table significance that such right is
disputed in a city like Bremerhaven;
(3) the duty of ‘press offices’ in a
state which desires to be democratic
is to help rather than hinder the
press.”

The Weser-Kurier endorsed the
protest of the Nordsee Zeitung and
suggested that the highest officials
of both Bremen and Bremerhaven
ought to adopt the American custom
of press conferences. It declared:

“Having seen in the last weeks
with what indefatigable patience the
leading officials of Military Gov-
ernment have given answers to all
questions at weekly press confer-
ences, we cannot understand why
the responsible personalities in Bre-
men and Bremerhaven could not adopt
the same principle. Most differences

MARCH 9, 1948

Short Stories Replace Municipal News

between the press as an organ of the
public and the authorities originated
not from any desire of the press to
attack the heads of governments but
from a lack of candid information.”

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
called attention to the resolutions
addressed to the Bavarian Govern-
ment, Military Government and the
Bavarian legislature by the Confer-
ence of Professional Journalists in
Munich, demanding a modern press
law. The paper said:

“An example of the need for a new
law is the lawsuit of Frau Mathilde
Ludendorff against Werner Fried-
mann, licensee of the Sueddeutsche
Zeitung, for refusing to publish a
correction she demanded. The suit is
based on the 1874 law and Frau Lu-
dendorff's lawyer points out that the
compulsion to correction is present
even though the correction does not
correspond to the truth, because the
law is designed to protect not the
truth but the person involved.”

The Offenbach-Post commented on
a cover picture on “Newsweek”
showing the mayor of Pittsburgh
asleep at his desk. The paper main-
tained that no such picture could
ever appear in a German paper. It
said:

“We German journalists will always
be different from our American col-
leagues. Also our politicians will
never be like American politicians.
Imitation would be senseless, ridi-

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not nec-
essarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

25

SS

‘an Uh
UL

culous, unreasonable.>>“But we
can learn from the others. We, the
journalists and the photographers,
and even the politicians ... could
try for human interest. But that is
exclusively up to the politicians who
today appear so stiff, so dignified, so
impersonal; who permit themselves
to be photographed only in official
pose...”

Says US View Changes

Commenting on the new bizonal
charter, the press pointed to its cen-
tralistic features as evidence of a
changed American point of view, but
emphasized the provisory character
of the Economics Council and the
urgent need for economic authority.
A minority of the Bavarian press
criticized the charter.

The Wiesbadener Kurier said many
Germans apparently deceived them-
selves into thinking the Americans
were more interested in the realization
of federalistic principles than in the
authority of the Economics Council.
It added:

“Now is no time to go around
whining that the states have nothing
to say in Frankfurt. If they had shown
the least bit of respect for the re-
solutions of the Economics Council,
the charter might have become less
centralistic. The restrictions on the
financial sovereignty of the states
may be called extreme... (However)
the Economics Council will be able
to override a states’ council veto
only by an absolute majority. This is
a brake on centralism — a brake
that we hope will not be abused by
the states."

The Main-Post (Wuerzburg) found
that the bizonal charter is “the un-
equivocal expression of a new Anglo-
Saxon course” sharply contrasting
with earlier American policies, like
those inaugurated by Prof. James K.
Pollock, former director of the Re-
gional Governmental Coordinating
Office.“ The paper added:

“When Pollock returned in August
1946 he implored the south German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
ministers president assembled in
Stuttgart to hold fast to his and
their creation, to shun the devil of
bureaucracy that had enslaved Germ-
any in the past, and always to honor
the individuality of the states and
their right to self-determination.”

The paper declared that German
inaptitude had led the Americans “to
regret the grant of far-reaching rights
of » self-determination.”. The new
American policy is defined as one
“weakening the powers of legis-
latures and state governments in
favor of a bizonal bureaucracy deriv-
ing its almost unlimited power not
from the will of the people but from
the will of the Military Governors.”

The Main-Echo (Aschaffenburg)
said the charter aroused practically
no interest among the German masses,
because the population had lost con-
fidence in the Frankfurt institutions.
Tt said:

“We have been too often dis-
appointed during the last years to
believe that organizational reforms
could suffice to speed up reconstruc-
tion. For that, one would have to be
willing to make a truly ‘revolutionary’
change in regard to the treatment
of Germany, such as has recently
been expressed in the published de-
mands of a special committee of the
US Congress. We hear such voices
from afar with satisfaction, even
though we see no more in them than
symptoms of dawning insight."

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) found that “neither the Frank-
furt Economics Council nor the newly
created economic commission in the
Soviet Zone are obstacles to the at-
tainment of German unity.” Never-
theless, the “‘centralistic structure”
of the Soviet Zone commission is
bound to “widen the gap" between
the eastern and western zones:

“The  British-American _ procla-
mation, too, is not ideal and is only
a provisory solution that in the not
distant future will need revision.
However, at least the attempt has
been made to clearly define the
Tegal position of the Frankfurt Bi-
zonal Council and to put all bizonal
institutions under the maximum of
democratic control.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“The authorities in the Soviet Zone,
on the other hand, have apparently
received carte blanc powers under
the supervision of SMA... The
order No 32 creates no ‘order’ in the
sense in which it would. satisfy our
conception of democracy and right.”

‘New’ Policy on Spain

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
said that the new policy of the
western powers towards Spain “ap-
pears to all Germans very strange.”
Tt continued:

“Is it really possible to distinguish
between two kinds of Fascism: one
that is noxious — that was fought
against in its German and Italian form
until it perished — and another
that can be tolerated as conditionally
useful? ... If the present political
line towards Franco is continued, the
psychological effect on the German
people will be anything but desirable.
The surrender of principles has
never yet gone unpunished.”

‘Provocations of Hatred’

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heide!-
berg) said that the war of documents
only shows that “the world as a
whole has not yet suffered enough

bit oe ne

and has not learned enough to put an
end to provocations of hatred.” It
continued:

“An international court of law
condemned the leaders of “National
Socialism in 1946; now the powers
that then were sitting in court accuse
each other of having temporarily
engaged in a policy of understanding
with the condemned . . . As far as
Germany is concerned the publication
of the documents will have no other
effect than that a few thousand
people more will say: ‘See, not we
but the others are guilty!’ A few
more thousand people will stop un-
comfortable self-criticism."

Czech Regime Attacked

Der Neue Tag (Weiden) carried an
attack on the Czech government
credited to “our permanent
correspondent in Czechoslovakia."
Minister President Gottwald, the
paper reported, is said to be ready
“To overthrow the ‘National Front’
and to put an undisguised Com-
munist dictatorship in its place...
The past of the Czechs is bound up
too much with the West to permit
Gottwald to use the methods of
Dimitrov today. Therefore he hopes
for the elections that will give him
the majority and thereby the legiti-

Tron girders, salvaged from the ruins of bombed German buildings, are
straightened by workers with a spindle press. The girders will be used

in the construction of new buildings.

26

(DENA-Bild)

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 30 ---
macy to ride rough-shod over the
opposition."

(Editor's note: This editorial was
published on Feb. 11, two weeks
before the Communistic seizure of
power in Czechoslovakia. Weiden is
in eastern Bavaria, near the Czech
border.)

Anti-Semitism Warning

In the Wiesbadener Kurier Police
President Noelle warned against re-
viving anti-Semitism. He said:

“. ., Never has anything been so
completely senseless as the mass
murder of Jews in the Third Reich.
Except, if perhaps the national crim-
inals intended to arouse the whole
of mankind against us... What we
apparently have forgotten, as if it
had been a harmless intermezzo, the
other nations remember. They still
think of gas chambers and crematoria.
And now there appears news reports
about new German anti-Semitic in-
famies ... It is simply devastating
how little our people have learned.”

Sociological Study

Peter Maslowski wrote in the
Neue Presse (Coburg) about the so-

called “Pantry Law’ for the col-
lection and distribution of food
supplies:

“It would be worth a sociological
study to find out what deeper source
produced the almost defaming name
‘Pantry Law‘, because much better
and to the point would have been
the name ‘Hoarder Law .. .""

“It is actually not so much a
question of interfering in private
households; it is rather a matter of
getting from the producers and inter-
mediaries truthful data that will serve
improved collection and distribution
of foodstuffs.”

Women in Politics

The Frankfurter Rundschau pub-
lished an article which demanded that
German women be given an active
part in politics:

“The largest part of the German
people today consists of women. About
two thirds of the authorized voters
are women .., The new Economics
Council will consist of 104 members,

MARCH 9, 1948

Germans at the Erding airport, near Munich, opened a March of Dimes
drive of their own. Dr. Willi Ankermueller, Bavarian minister of the
interior, is shown making a contribution. The officers are (left to right)
Col. Park Holland, Col. Louis Cooper and Lt, Col. Hans Kraft Kirchner.
(DENA-Bild)

apparently all of whom will be
men... The shaping of economic
policy today requires women too—
not only because they represent a
majority and because millions of them
are employed in industry and most
earn their own and their children's
livings; also because they are the
greatest body of consumers and feel
the effect of economic policy the
most keenly...

“We have the right as working
women and housewives to take our
part in the main councils, not merely
in auxiliary bodies . . . We want to
cooperate in building a new political
and economic Germany because we
believe that our realism and stronger
practical sense, which views all
dogma with scepticism, would con-
tribute to a better and more rapid
reconstruction.”

US History Praised

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) carried a review of approximate-
ly 1,000 words of the first volume
of Van Wyck Brooks’ cultural
history of the United States, The
reviewer called the book “an im-
pressive monument of American intel-
lectual life’ and expressed the hope
that it will “soon be part of the

27

educational stock and the spiritual
possessions of educated Germans.”

It declared: “Page for page, one
becomes acquainted with America in
the most important hours of its
history. America such as it ought to
be known, as it has to be recognized
today, as it must become a concept if
the spiritual forces that continue to
be effective within her should be
correctly assessed.”

Friends Thanked

The Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel)
said the choice of the Friends’ or-
ganization of the United States and
Great Britain for the Nobel Peace
Prize meets sincere and gratiful ap-
proval in Germany.

“Nothing has pleasanter conno-
tations in Germany among our dis-
tressed people, especially our children,
than the words ‘Quaker Food Do-
nations.‘ That was the case after
World War I... when in Germany
alone the Quakers sometimes fed
more than a million persons, at a
time when the world continued to
hate or ignore us... It has made a
very great impression in Germany
that some Quakers have come here to
live under the same conditions as or-
dinary Germans.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
(Continued from Page 8)

German Constitutions

formed of this action. Denazification
laws are specifically exempted from
the constitutional provisions of the
bill of rights.

On June 9, 1947, the French High
Command in Germany issued Ordi-
nance Number 95, a document com-
parable to the Sept. 30 directive of
the American Military Government.
This ordinance makes the constitu-
tions subject to Control Council and
French High Command orders. Fur-
thermore, certain spheres of activity
pertaining to reparations, movements
of population, dismantling and occu-
pational requirements are removed
from the competence of the German
authorities.

Proposals pertaining to decarteli-
zation, denazification and democrati-
zation must be communicated to the
French High Command before being
introduced in the legislature. The
state budget must make provisions
for occupation costs, All laws must
receive French Military Government
approval before promulgation.

Altough the French Zone constitu-
tions give the impression that the
state governments are independently
functioning entities, they are actually
supervised by French Military Gov-
ernment to an extent even greater
than that which would be suggested
by a reading of ‘Ordinance No 95.

In addition to the specific subjects
reserved to French Military Govern-
ment by this order there are also
“legislative powers in the field of
economics for which coordination
between the states is required.’ On
the strength of this latter provision
the states have been forbidden to
legislate on any branches within the
fields of economics, food and agri-
culture, or transport.

While laws outside the prohibited
and restricted categories may be in-
troduced in a_ legislature without
prior MG review, the Germans have
been “advised” to submit them for
prior review so that, for all practical
purposes, there is advance clearance
of everything the legislature does, in
addition to a review before pro-
mulgation, of legislation already
enacted.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

§100,000,000 Earmarked for Purchases
Bizone to Buy Raw Materials |

The sum of $100,000,000 has been
earmarked for the purchase abroad
of raw materials for the Bizonal Area
of Germany during the first quarter
of 1948, the Joint Export-Import
Agency announced. Of this amount,
$20,000,000 is to be used to buy raw
materials for the manufacture of con-
sumer goods for the German popu-
lation in the area.

The funds were accumulated from
the proceeds of German exports, and
no part of these proceeds has been
withdrawn to pay for food or to reim-
burse the US and UK Governments
for the enormous advances they have
provided for food imports. Food im-
ports as well as fertilizer, seed, pe-
troleum, oil and lubricants are all
bought from special appropriations
made by the US and British Govern-
ments.

The German economic administra-
tion is working out a detailed sched-
ule of items required to support the
German economy, and at the same
time develop a greatly expanded
export program which draws basic
raw materials from this fund.

Henry Maine (right) testifies as a French witness for the prosecution

Among the major items which are
to be included in this program are
iron and manganese ores required for
the 1948 steel production schedule,
anticipating an increase in output
from current levels in the Bizonal
Area of up to approximately 4,000,000
tons per year. A minimum outlay
of $5,500,000 will be required for this
purpose.

Replacement parts for textile ma-
chinery; industrial diamonds; Oregon
and Swedish pine for the shipbuilding
industry; more than $1,000,000 worth
of hides, goatskins and tanning mate-
rials; fibers for the handicraft and
wood-working industries; ivory,
ebony, felt and deer hides for the
piano industry, ferrous alloys, and
non-ferrous metals are included on
the planned import list.

The final schedule of requirements.
will be procured under a decentralized
procedure which entitles German
official agencies and manufacturers

to import commercial products for
specific export programs. Such cen-
tralized procurement as is necessary,
and over-all supervision, will be exer-
cized by the JEIA.

in the Krupp trial at Nuremberg. He told how he was forced to work
for Krupp during the occupation of France by Germany. At his right

sits an interpreter.

28

(Signal Corps photo)

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 32 ---
(Continued from Page 2)

Occupational Activities

and Ruhr Rivers,
pension of traffic on those waterways.
Although the waters of the middle
and lower Rhine rose to within three
feet of flood stage, no suspension of
traffic was necessary.

necessiating sus-

Hesse

An outbreak of poliomyelitis start-
ing in the displaced persons camp at
Muenchenhof, Hesse, and spreading
to the town of Fritzlar, caused the
town administration to close all
schools for two weeks and to prohibit
all mass gatherings until further
notice.

Makers of agreements on wages and
salaries applicable in the event of cur-
rency reform are liable to prosecution
now, the Hesse Justice Ministry warn-
ed business firms.

When German border police from
the Soviet Zone who had been ar-
resting persons in Hesse within the
US Zone were questioned, they said
they had received instructions from
Weimar (Soviet Zone) to patrol and
make arrests up to 1,625 feet within
the US Zone. This information was
referred to the Constabulary's Soviet
Liaison officer for possible corrective
action.

The University of Chicago has con-
cluded plans with the University of
Frankfurt whereby six Chicago profes-
sors will teach at Frankfurt. Also,
modern seminar libraries will be
provided by the University of Chicago.

Wuerttemberg-Baden

A representative of the American
Friends Service Committee has been
visiting secondary schools in Wuert-
temberg with the intention of choos-
ing schools to be adopted by Ameri-
can secondary schools. This will lead
to pupil correspondence, matters of
cultural exchange, and aid from
American schools in the form of
school supplies.

The Schwaebische Post, the 50th in-
dependent German newspaper in the
US Zone, was licensed at Aalen. It has
a circulation of 34,000 and appears
twice weekly.

The Konrad Wittwer Verlag has
been licensed by the Wuerttemberg-

MARCH 9, 1948

Three Berlin children sort some of the 1,000 books sent by school
children of North Carolina. Helping them is Sgt. Albers, head of the
German Youth Club in Berlin. A “Books for Berlin’' movement in North
Carolina has netted 250,000 books, most of which already are on the

way.

Baden Economics Ministry to handle
subscription requests for trade maga-
zines and technical publications pub-
lished abroad.

An electrical tool firm received the
first open export license to be issued
in Wuerttemberg-Baden under the
open licensing procedure recently an-
nounced by the Joint Export Import
Agency. Under the terms of this
license, the J&E Fein Co. of Stuttgart
may conclude an unlimited number of
export contracts during the next six
months without the necessity of ob-
taining an individual license for each
shipment. No one sale may total more
than $10,000.

Bavaria

The Bavarian Health Department is
active in organizing refresher courses
for physicians and nurses. Courses
for nurses and midwives were or-
ganized at Miltenberg.

The Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare has protested to Military
Government that the Wildbad Sana-
torium in Rothenburg is being stripped
of installations and fixtures by dis-
placed persons, some of whom are
also accused of keeping cattle in
their rooms.

29

(PIO, OMGUS)

After an examination of housing
conditions in Wuerzburg, where there
is an average of 3.6 persons per room,
it has been suggested that considera-
tion be given to removing head-
quarters of the Wuerzburg Military
Post from that city to some other loca-
tion in the post area.

An investigation showed that ap-
proximately 10 percent of reinstated
personnel in the Ministry of Finance
were former members of the Nazi
party.

A new youth welfare organization,
Kinderschutz (Youth Protection) has
been licensed by the Ministry of In-
terior to function as a sub-agency of
Paritaetische Wohlfahrt (Non-Secta-
rian Welfare) the over-all agency for
all small private agencies in Bavaria.

The Ministry of the Interior has
asked all public and private welfare
agencies to submit a list of children
living outside the US Zone or outside
Germany, whose parents are residing
in Bavaria. When completed, this list
will be submitted to Military Govern-
ment for assistance in proper clear-
ance and facilitating the return of
these children.

During January, 94 articles of cul-
tural value, suspected or known to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
have been removed from former Ger-
man-occupied countries, were con-
fiscated from present holders in Ba-
varia and taken to the Munich Central
Collecting Point for screening.

Because of the continued decrease
in December 1947 of cattle slaughter-
ing, hide collections were extremely
low,

Bavaria supplied only 892 tons of
hides and 122 tons of calfskins for
January.

Radio Nuremberg, operating on a
new frequency, went on the air sepa-
rately from Radio Munich on Jan. 15.

The Bavarian legislature, after ap-
proving budgets for itself and the
finance administration, and for costs
resulting from the war, drafted an
appeal to Military Government to use
all its means to reduce postwar and
occupation costs. The _ resolution
emphasized that the tremendous tax
load makes it almost impossible to
effect economic reconstruction.

A sharp increase in the number of
border violations has occurred in Ba-
varia adjacent to the Soviet Zone of
Austria, These consist mainly of ille-
gal entry by Soviet soldiers into Ba-
varia to obtain food through arbi-
trary demands on German farmers or
through the hunting of wild game.

Bremen
The curfew was lifted March 1 in
Bremen, the only German state where
it had been in existence. It had been
maintained because of Bremen’s
status as an important harbor for
American supplies,

Berlin Sector

One thousand pairs of new type
rubber shoe-boots, purchased with a
part of the $10,000 raised by the Com-
munity Chest drive conducted in the
American community of Berlin in 1947,
were distributed to needy US Sector
school children,

Cooperation among the four occu-
pying powers in Berlin affairs has
improved despite fundamental differ-
ences in ideology between East and
West, Col. Frank L, Howley, OMG
director of Berlin Sector, told a press
conference, He believed the economic
situation in Berlin had improved and
said the political interest of the pop-
ulation had steadily increased,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Berlin city assembly unani-
mously passed the 1948-49 budget,
balanced at RM 2,200,000,000, for sub-
mission to the Allied Kommandatura.

The US Sector's second Amerika-
Haus (US Information Center) was
opened in Zehlendorf-West.

US Zone

Previous monthly records for the
importation of bulk relief supplies
brought into Germany during January
were almost 50 percent of the amount
received during the entire year of
1947, January's shipment of supplies
amounted to 3,574 tons, and included
about 2,000 tons of wheat contributed
by individual American farmers during
a rural collection campaign.

New books produced recently by
licensed German publishers included:
“Time for Greatness” by Herbert Agar;
“American Constitution and Govern-
ment,” by Franz Friese; ‘The United
States of Germany," by Kurt Karl Do-
berer; “Cultural History of Modern
Times,” by Egon Friedell, and “Chris-
tianity and Humanism,” by V. E.
Freiherr von Gebsattel.

Preliminary arrangements have been
completed to present top-ranking
American artists to German audiences.

The reconstructed Free Bridge at Leonberg-Eltingen, in Wuerttem-

4

Selected for early appearances through-
out the US-occupied areas are Mona
Paulee, Martha Graham and her dance
ensemble, Patricia Travers, Helen
Taubel, Yehudi Menuhin, Risé Stevens,
Leonard Warren and Todd Duncan.

The Soviet repatriation centers at
Stuttgart and Fulda, formerly operated
in the US Zone under the provision
of the Yalta Agreement, were closed
Feb. 16. In the future, the Soviet
center at Ansbach, Bavaria, will pro-
cess all displaced persons desiring re-
patriation from the US Zone to the
Soviet Union or the Baltic countries,

British Zone

The progress of denazification in the
British Zone up to Dec. 31, 1947, was
announced as follows: Total number
of persons screened, 2,190,871; total
number of persons removed or exclud-
ed, 350,825; total number of persons
categorized from commencement of
operations (April 1947), 638,262; total
number of persons prosecuted for
making false statements in question-
aires, 2,345,

Freiheit, the Communist-affiliated

newspaper published in Duesseldorf,
was suspended for three months until
May 18 for contravening MG orders,

berg-Baden, is shown as it was opened to traffic at ceremonies attended
by Mr. Charles La Follette, director of OMGWB, and Dr. Reinhold
Maier, minister-president. The bridge, formerly the Rohrbach Bridge, is

part of the autobahn system.

30

(DENA-Bild)

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
Bizonal Meat Quota Set for 1948

The Bizonal Area will be called
upon to deliver 445,190 metric tons of
meat for indigenous consumption dur-
ing the coming year, the Bipartite Food
and Agriculture Group announced.
Fulfillment of this delivery figure will
provide a 400-gram meat ration for
the normal consumer in the combined
zones during 1948. Total figures for
livestock adjustment, meat production
and interstate delivery quotas are
set forth in the 1948 livestock and
meat production program recently
drawn up by the German Administra-
tion for Food, Agriculture and Foresty.

The livestock policy for 1948, based
on the necessity for restricting the
number of livestock in order to make
the maximum amount of grain avail-
able for direct human consumption, is
similar to that established last year.
This year’s program provides that
cattle be maintained at 10 percent
below the 1945 level, that pigs be re-
duced by September 1948 to 3,911,000
head sufficient to meet self-supplier's
needs and requirements for breeding
stock in 1948, and that sheep be
slaughtered at the rate of 30 percent
of the estimated December 1947 stock.

At these rates 1,367,000 head of
cattle, 1,706,000 calves, 582,000 sheep
and 3,179,000 pigs will be available
for commercial slaughter during 1948.
‘When calculating the meat delivery
quota for 1948, a 2.5 percent allow-
ance was made for slaughter and fat
deliveries and five percent for gen-
eral losses. Emphasis on the 1948
program was placed on the fulfillment
of meat production quotas, rather than
livestock numbers, as has been the
case in the past.

The 1948 interstate movements
schedule provides for the following
metric-ton outshipments of meat: From
Bavaria—185 to Hesse, 500 to Ham-
burg, 45,979 to North Rhine/West-
phalia, 20,520 to Berlin; from Wuert-
temberg-Baden—1,130 to North Rhine-
Westphalia, and 1,630 to Berlin; from
Lower-Saxony—452 to Hamburg, 4,019
to Bremen, 13,759 to North Rhine-
Westphalia, 6,002 to Berlin; from
Hesse—1,480 to North Rhine-West-
phalia; from Schleswig - Holstein—
12,809 to Hamburg and 1,024 to North
Rhine/Westphalia.

MARCH 9, 1948

In implementing the instructions for
carrying out the livestock program
and meeting production quotas, all
Land food officers have been advised
of the desirability of working in close
cooperation with the animal breeding
institutes and agricultural extension
services in the Bizonal Area. This is
essential, it was explained, if the pro-
ductive capacity of livestock is to be
maintained.

Strict control in the handling of
meat on its way from producer to
consumer was called for by the direc-
tor of the Bizonal Food and Agri-
culture Department, who pointed out
that meat losses during 1947 were
considerable, and that a much larger
ration could have been met had the
specified quantities actually been
delivered.

Soviet PW’s Ill

Only seven percent of all prisoners
of war released from Soviet custody
are fit for work, the annual report of
the Hesse Minister for Interior
disclosed. The report stated 31.5 per-
cent suffered from hunger symptoms
or dropsy, and 64 percent were
underweight by more than ten per-
cent of their present average weight.

Of 9,300 PW's, 18 percent were in
need of immediate hospital treatment,
it was further reported, while almost
all others had to be considered ill.
All of them arrived in ragged clothes,
many without shoes, according to the
report, and without personal belong-
ings. — ICD's News of Germany.

Prisons Lacking
Adequate Food

Procurement of adequate food for
German prison institutions has been a
serious problem. There are few stored
vegetables, and, because of the 1947
drought, prison farm crops were less
than 50 percent normal.

In Bavaria, the prisons administra-
tion has joined a central distribution
agency operated by the Ministry of
Economics, which has allocated food
and other supplies to civilian intern-
ment enclosures, displaced persons
camps, hospitals, and refugee camps.

The fuel and clothing situation is
also critical, and in order to co-
ordinate procurement of supplies,
prison officials of Bavaria, Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden have temporarily
joined forces.

The overcrowding of prisons is
partly responsible for the supply
shortage. Amnesties and parole meas-
ures alleviated the situation to some
extent. The acquisition of new in-
stitutions in the prison system would
not, of course, help the supply short-
age, although it would relieve phy-
sical overcrowding.—Military Gover-
nor's Report No 29.

33,733 Dependents in Zone

There were an estimated 33,733 de-
pendents of American, Allied, and
neutral military and civilian personnel
in the European Command on Jan. 15,
EUCOM Headquarters announced, The
latest report represented a slight in-
crease over the Dec.15 total. Berlin
has the largest total, 2,620 dependents.

Training Center Established for Crippled

A training center for rehabilitation
of physically handicapped Berlin res-
idents is being set up in the US Sec-
tor of Berlin. The new center, a pro-
ject of the welfare agency of the
Evangelical Church, will have facili-
ties to accommodate approximately
1,100 persons.

Plans call for an 18-month rehabili-
tation training program, offering three-
month courses in tailoring, shoemak-
ing, or sewing, to be followed by a
15-month apprenticeship. Workshops

31

for mechanics, carpentry, joining and
connected trades will be maintained
at the center for the more severely
handicapped trainees. Persons jess
handicapped will serve their appren-
ticeship in workshops throughout
Berlin,

Trainees will be provided with hous-
ing facilities where necessary, and
will be paid a basic wage from a fund
provided by the Labor Department of
the Berlin Magistrat.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Index te Circulars, AG 461 AGL,
Hq EUCOM, 1 January 1948, This
Index covers all circulars issued by
Hq EUCOM, Hq USFET, and Hq
ETOUSA, which were in effect on
1 January 1948.

Circular No. 4, Hq EUCOM, 24 Jan-
uary 1948, Section I—Fitting and
Issue of Clothing and Footwear;
Section II—Aircraft in the European
Command Assigned to Pools; ‘Section
Ill-Instructions for Mail Handling,
and Section IV—Rescissions.

Circular No, 5 Identification, Hq
EUCOM, 28 January 1948. Section I—
General; Section II—Military Person-
nel and Civilians Employed by
EUCOM or on Department of the
Army Business; Section III—Person-
nel of Miscellaneous Organizations;
Section IV—Dependents, and Sec-
tion V—Administrative Instructions.

Circular No. 6, Hq EUCOM, 30 Jan-
uary 1948. Section I—Sanitary Re-
ports; Section II—Casualty Reporting;
Section III—Report on Officers Re-
lieved for Cause of Inefficiency;
Section IV—Hospitalization of Military
Personnel; Section WV—Crimes, Of-
fenses and Serious Incidents; Sec-
tion VI—Reporting of Detained Per-
sonnel, and Section VII—Rescissions.

Circular No.7, Hq EUCOM, 1 Feb-
ruary 1948. Currency Conversion
Outlines instructions in the event of
future Military Payment Certificate
conversions.

Circular No, 8, Hq EUCOM, 3 Feb-
ruary 1948. Section I—Monthly
Status Report and Roster of Military
Labor Service Units; Section I—
Official Mail in Domestic Postal Serv-
ice; Section III—Post Exchange
Rations and Allowances; Section IV—
Medical Care in the European Com-
mand, and Section V—Occupation
Expense Fiscal Policy.

Amendment 5 to Directive AG 010.6
(FD), 21 February 1947, “Official In-
structions Supplementary to Title 16,
Military Government Regulations,”
AG 010.6 (FD), OMGUS, 3 February
1948,

Discontinuance of Individual !n-
dustrieberichte from Ceramic Firms,
AG 319.1 (ED), OMGUS, 7 February
1948, Discontinues that portion of Re-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

port MG/IND/83/F dealing with the
above, ‘

Circular No. 9, Hq EUCOM, 10 Feb-
ruary 1948. Section I—Property Ac-
countability in the European Com-
mand; Section II—Nonappropriate
Funds; Section Il]—Participation of
Military Personnel in Private Organi-
zations, and Section IV—Rescissions,

Circular No. 10, Hq EUCOM, 12 Feb-
ruary 1948, Elimination of Unde-
sirable and Surplus Personnel. Out-
lines responsibility for implementation
of this program.

Circular No. 11, Hq EUCOM, 14 Feb-
Tuary 1948. Section I—Assistance
from US Military Sources to Civilian
Agencies and Personnel; Section II—
Authority to Appoint a Junior of
Several Officers of Same Grade
Within a Command as Commander
Thereof; Section III—Use of Public
Horses; Section IV—Voting by Per-
sonnel of the Armed Forces, and
Section V—Rescissions.

Circular No. 12, Hq EUCOM, 16 Feb-
Tuary 1948, Section I—Highway
Transportation; Section II—Investi-
gation of Fatal and Near-Fatal Ac-
cidents Involving Suspicious Circum-
stances; Section III—Observance of
Holidays; Section IV—Operation of
Barber and Beauty Shops; Section V—
Quarterly Inventory and Report of
Penalty Material; Section VI—Tran-
sient Billeting Accommodations Within

the US Occupied Zones, and Section
VII—Rescissions,

Official Mail Addressed to Foreign
Nationals or Organizations in the
Diplomatic Pouch, AG 311.4 (PA), Hq
EUCOM, Berlin, 18 February 1948.
Gives instructions for preparing
pouch correspondence.

Circular No. 13, Hq EUCOM, 18 Feb-
Tuary 1948, Tables of Clothing and
Equipment Allowances for the
Euccpean Command.

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters,

32

Circular No. 14, Hq EUCOM, 19 Feb-
ruary 1948. Promotion of Military
Personnel.

Circular No. 15, Hq EUCOM, 20 Feb-
ruary 1948. Savings and Insurance.

Circular No. 16, Hq EUCOM, 21 Feb-
ruary 1948, Section IJ—Rental of
US Government Motor Transporta-
tion by Individuals, Organizations or
Agencies; Section II—Sale of Petro-
leum Products, and Section III—
Casualty Reporting.

Unblocking of Accounts of Persons
Subject to the Blocking Provisions of
Article I, par 1(b), Military Govern-
ment Law No. 52, AG 010 (FD),
OMGUS, 20 February 1948. (See
separate item.)

More Culture Urged

Germans should attach less im-
portance to work and more to cul-
tural enjoyment, Adolf Grimme,
Lower Saxonian education minister,
declared in an address to students
of Goettingen university in Lower
Saxony.

He said the German “concen-
tration on work" had embittered
other nations by forcing them to
follow suit.

He suggested that other interests,
such as nature, art and conversation,
should be as highly prized by the
Germans as work and that the week-
end be regarded as something more
than merely a means to be able to
work more.—ICD's News of Germany.

Property Unblocked

A general license became effective
within the states of the US Zone and
the US Sector of Berlin on March 1,
unblocking property which is owned
or controlled by any natural person
residing in Germany and which is
blocked solely ‘by reason of the
operation of Article I, paragraph 1 (b)
of Military Government Law No. 52.

This general license shall not be
deemed to authorize any transaction
prohibited by Military Government
Law No. 53.

MARCH 9, 1948

--- Page 36 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

STATION LIST

ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Lucius D. Clay
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany (US)

Office of Mil Gov for
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

Ha & Sv Co

*LK Aalen

*LK Backnang

*LK Boeblingen

*LK Crailsheim

*LK Esslingen

*LK Goeppingen

*LK Heidenheim
*SK/LK Heilbronn
*LK Kuenzelsau

*LK Leonberg

*LK Ludwigsburg
*LK Mergentheim
*LK Nuertingen

*LK Oehringen

*LK Schwaebisch-Gmuend
*LK Schwaebisch-Hall
*SK Stuttgart

*SK/LK Ulm

*LK Vaihingen

*LK Waiblingen

*LK Bruchsal

*LK Buchen

*SK/LK Heidelberg
*SK/LK Karlsruhe
*SK/LK Mannheim

*LK Mosbach

*SK/LK Pforzheim

*LK Sinsheim

*LK Tauberbischofsheim

Office of Mil Gov
for Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)

Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
*LK Alsfeld

*LK Bergstrasse

*LK Biedenkopf

*LK Buedingen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Wuerttemberg Area

Aalen

Backnang
Boeblingen
Crailsheim
Esslingen
Goeppingen
Heidenheim
Heilbronn
Kuenzelsau
Leonberg
Ludwigsburg
Mergentheim
Nuertingen
Oehringen
Schwaebisch-Gmuend
Schwaebisch-Hall
Stuttgart

Ulm

Vaihingen
Waiblingen

Baden Area

Bruchsal

Buchen

Heidelberg
Karlsruhe
Mannheim

Mosbach

Pforzheim

Sinsheim
Tauberbischofsheim

LAND HESSE
“Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep) (APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Alsfeld
Heppenheim
Biedenkopf
Buedingen

Maj Gen George P Hays
Deputy Mil Gov

Brig Gen William Hesketh
Asst to Deputy Mil Gov

Mr Charles La Follette

Lt Col Morris O Edwards
1st Lt H McCallion

Maj C A Pallette
Capt E P Oja

Capt M P ‘Ernst
Capt R C Lawton
Mr N Semaschko Jr
Lt Col A G Spitz
Maj E T Schouten
Lt Col Chas J West
Mr T E Griswold
Maj G H Wilson
Maj L H Kyle

Capt B V Bloom

Mr J F Capell

1st Lt Pierre Nelson
Capt P K Felton
Mai_S A Warren
Lt Col I L Harlow
Mr M L Hoover
Capt James A Dunn
Mr C H Wright

Capt Fred J Gerken
Maj F A Hubbard
Lt Col J A Lynch
Maj C S Keena

Lt Col C H Rue

Mr J Zecca

Mr R Lascoe

Capt C W Matthews
Mr N W Barber

Dr J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
ist Lt P J Weiss
1st Lt EC Stam
Maj D J Hefferman
Capt W L Culbertson
Capt J K Brush

MARCH 4, 1948

33

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Dieburg

*LK Dill

*LK Erbach

*LK Eschwege
*LK Frankenberg
*SK Frankfurt
*LK Friedberg
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Gelnhausen
SK/LK Giessen
*LK Gross Gerau
SK/LK Hanau
*LK Hersfeld

*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Huenfeld
*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Lauterbach
“LK Limburg

*LK Main-Taunus
*SK/LK Marburg
*LK Melsungen
“LK Oberlahn
*LK Obertaunus
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Rheingau
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Schluechtern
*LK Untertaunus
“LK Usingen

*LK Waldeck

*LK Wetzlar

*SK- Wiesbaden
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Wolfhagen
*LK Ziegenhain

Office of Mil Govt
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq & S Co

3 CoB

*A-210 SK-LK Wuerzburg
*A-220 SK-LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 SK-LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 LK Bad Kissingen
*A-251 LK Kitzingen
*A-330 LK Alzenau

*A-331 LK Brueckenau
*A-332 LK Ebern

*A-333 LK Gemuenden
*A-334 LK Gerolzhofen
*A-335 LK Hammelburg
*A-336 LK Hassfurt

*A-337 LK Hofheim

*A-338 LK Karlstadt

*A-339 LK Koenigshofen
*A-340. LK Lohr

*A-341 LK Markt Heidenfeld
*A-342 LK Mellrichstadt
*A-343 LK Miltenberg
*A-344 LK Neustadt (Saale)
*A-345 LK Obernburg

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Darmstadt
Dieburg
Dillenburg
Erbach
Eschwege
Frankenberg
Frankfurt
Friedberg
Fritzlar
Fulda
Gelnhausen
Giessen
Gross Gerau
Hanau
Hersfeld
Hofgeismar
Huenfeld
Kassel
Lauterbach
Limburg
Hofheim
Marburg
Melsungen
Weilburg
Bad Homburg
Offenbach
Ruedesheim
Rotenburg
Schluechtern
Bad Schwal!bach
Usingen
Korbach
Wetzlar
Wiesbaden
Witzenhausen
Wolfhagen
Ziegenhain

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Govt Regt (APO 407)

Munich
Munich

Lower, Middle, and Upper Franconia

Nuremberg
Wuerzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Brueckenau
Ebern
Gemuenden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Koenigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt
Obernburg

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Lt Col J C Rose
Capt M S Clark
Capt R W Smith
Capt J R Hyde

Maj E J Hart

Capt G P Johnson
Maj G C Sola

Maj H P Radigan
Maj W C Gipple
Maj T L Tempest
Capt C D Fexy

Maj G P Moore
Capt W N Condon
Lt Col C H Reed
Maj W J Salwocki
Capt W S Chadwick
Capt W G Westbrook Jr
Lt Col G J Albrecht
Capt C R Argo

Capt E Robinson
Maj J C Nelson
Maj H E Homecker
Maj A C Bergis

Lt Col M A Meacham
Maj C A Vollrath
Maj W R Sheehan
Capt W L Young
Capt R Becton

Capt S Kershaw
Maj E E Chotas
Capt H J Wills

Maj P E Perry

Maj C R Russe

Col F H Boucher
Mai B L Bassinor
Capt V K Ledbetter
Capt T W Harris

Mr Murray D Van Wagoner

Col E F Boruski
Maj M C Edge

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col M W Crouse
Lt Col W_A Betz
Maj J E Breland
Maj A C MclIntyre
Maj R C Jernigin -
Capt F E Witty
Capt T E Klemens
Capt FL Tulin

Capt J H Bowser
Capt H W Wyre
Maj F C Smita
Capt H_ P Rice

1st Lt R P Mellmann
ist Lt Thomas G Houghton
Capt H B Bently
Capt W A Farrington
Maj H J Knoll

Maj R G Holmes
Capt W J Fraizer
Capt H A McCurdy
Capt J O Burnette

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

MARCH 9, 19485

--- Page 38 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

*A-346 LK Ochsenfurt
*B-211 SK-LK Nuremberg
*B-222 SK-LK Bamberg
*B-223 SK-LK Bayreuth
*B-224 SK-LK Erlangen
*B-225 SK-LK Coburg
*B-226 LK Kronach
4B-227 SK-LK Hof
*B-228 SK-LK Ansbach
*B-229 SK-LK Fuerth
*B-247 LK Lichtenfels
and LK Staffelstein
*B-252 LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 LK Hoechstadt (Aisch)
*B-254 SK-LK Kulmbach
*B-255 LK Pegnitz
*B-256 LK Muenchberg
*B-258 LK Rehau
*B-259 LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 LK Forchheim
*B-261 LK Dinkelsbuehl
*B-262 LK Eichstaett
*B-263 LK Feuchtwangen
*B-264 LK Gunzenhausen
*B-265 LK Hersbruck
*B-266 LK Hilpoltstein
*B-267 LK Weissenburg
*B-268 LK Rothenburg
*B-269 LK Schwabach
*B-270 LK Scheinfeld
*B-271 LK Windsheim
*B-272 LK Lauf
*B-273 LK Neustadt (Aisch)
*B-347 LK Naila
*B-348 LK Stadtsteinach

Lower Bavaria and Upper Palatinate

Co D

*D-212 SK-LK Regensburg

*B-230 SK-LK Weiden-Neustadt
(Wald)

*D-243 SK-LK Passau

*D-244 SK-LK Amberg

*D-245 SK-LK Landshut

*D-246 SK-LK Straubing

*D-274 LK Cham

*D-275 LK Burglenfeld

*D-276 LK Parsberg

*D-277 LK Tirschenreuth

*D-278 LK Neunburg vorm Wald

*D-279 LK Eschenbach
*D-301 LK Deggendorf
*D-302 LK Eggenfelden
*D-303 LK Grafenau
*D-304 LK Kelheimr
*D-305 LK Landau (Isar)
*D-306 LK Pfarrkirchen
*D-307 LK Regen

*D-308 LK Vilshofen
*D-309 LK Vilsbiburg
*D-310 LK Wolfstein
*D-349 LK Kemnath
*D-350 LK Nabburg
*D-351 LK Oberviechtach
*D-352 LK Riedenburg
*D-353 LK Vohenstrauss
*D-354 LK Roding

*D-355 LK Waldmuenchen.
*D-356 LK Beilngries

* Liaison and Security

LOCATION

Ochsenfurt
Nuremberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach
Hof
Ansbach
Fuerth
Lichtenfels

Ebermannstadt
Hoechstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Muenchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuehl
Eichstaett
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck.
Hilpoltstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zwiesel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Freyung
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenburg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Maj E C Wimberly
Lt Col J C Barnet
Lt Col R D Smith
Lt Col J A Thompson
Lt Col M K Barrett
Maj S P Sussell
Capt A J Pippen
Maj_F Meszar

Lt Col R Herbison
Lt Col R R Reed
Maj T B Stewart

Maj W B Morrell
ist Lt T G Hougton
Maj R A Kerley
Capt S G Real

Maj T Cleary

Maj Adams

Maj O T Chaput
Capt F J Cramer
Maj J J Posten
Maj R C Householder
Capt J T Reeder
Capt L W Edgar
Capt J E Stavor,
Capt A A Gunter
Maj C W Allphin
1st Lt F L Roessler
Maj H T Lund

Capt W E Freeman
ist Lt L J Pickrel
Maj W A Kelley
Capt Ray M Simpson {Actg)
Capt J H Campbell"
Capt K D Cochran

Lt Col R T Nichols
Maj L A Proper
Lt Col J B Albin

Lt Col W G Ball
Mai_T G Shackelford
Lt Col A G Gullikson
Maj E O Carlson
Capt I R Mariels

Capt C D Fox

Maj R W Hitchcock
Capt R N McWhorter
Capt Chas E Lirette
Capt W R Smallwood
Maj L P Rhodes

Maj J O Dale

Capt E R Garrison, Jr.
Maj E L Kruger

Capt F W Adams
Capt G H Segur

Capt J D Akins

Maj W B Cook

Capt R J Van Campen
Capt E C Phillips
Maj G H Swick

Lt Col J B Albin

Maj H_ A Hardt

Capt G L Milner

Maj Y M Corbin
Capt L O Thibodeau
Capt R W Buffington
Maj R O Woodward

MARCH 9; 1948

35

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
*D-357 LK Neumarkt Neumarkt Capt C M Ziegler

(Upper Palatinate)
*D-358 LK Sulzbach-Rosenberg Sulzbach-Rosenberg Maj J Mulholland
*D-375 LK Bogen Bogen Capt F H Cheaney
*D-377 LK Dingolfing Dingolfing Maj W J Pugh
*D-378 LK Griesbach Griesbach Capt M Glossop
*D-379 LK Koetzting Koetzting Capt J H Honour
*D-380 LK Mainburg Mainburg Capt A F Rutledge
*D-381 LK Mallersdorf Mallersdorf Capt J O Harley
*D-382 LK Rottenburg Rottenburg Capt J T Clegg
*D-383 LK Viechtach Viechtach Maj E Fichter
*D-385 LK Wegscheid Obernzell Capt G C Jones

Upper Bavaria and Swabia

Co E Munich Lt Col E M Haight
*E-213 SK-LK Munich Munich Lt Col James H Kelly
*T1)-231 SK-LK Freising Freising Maj V L Thom
*E-232 LK Miesbach Miesbach Maj K B Cassidy
*E-233 LK Traunstein Traunstein Capt C W Larimer
*E-234 LK Altoetting Altoetting Capt J W Barber
*E-235 SK-LK Rosenheim Rosenheim Lt Col S R Place
*E-236 LK Garmisch-Parten- Garmisch Col van Buskirk

kirchen
*E-237 SK-LK Ingolstadt Ingolstadt Lt Col C M Avery
*E-280 LK Erding Erding Maj B W Brooker
*E-281 LK Laufen Laufen Maj S J Mangimelli
*E-282 LK Muehldorf Muehldorf Maj M E Hough
*E-283 LK Wasserburg Wasserburg Maj L R Day
*E-284 LK Bad Toelz Bad Toelz Capt G B Jones
*E-285 LK Bad Aibling Bad Aibling Capt H D Peterson
*E-286 LK Fuerstenfeldbruck Fuerstenfeldbruck Capt L R Shelton
*E-287 LK Landsberg Landsberg Capt A F Kutauskas
*E-208 LK Paffenhofen Pfaffenhofen Capt H H von Benge
*E-289 LK Starnberg Starnberg Capt B B Posey
*E-290 LK Weilheim Weilheim Capt D C Dunn
*E-291 LK Wolfratshausen Wolfratshausen Capt E E Bird
*E-311 LK Berchtesgaden Berchtesgaden Lt Col J A Crewe
*E-361 LK Ebersberg Ebersberg Capt J C Midzor
*E-362 LK Aichach Aichach Capt G D Jacobson
*E-364 LK Schrobenhausen Schrobenhausen Capt Jesse L Ott
*E-367 LK Dachau Dachau ist Lt J A Walker
*E-368 LK Schongau Schongau ist Lt W J Moran
*G-214 SK-LK Augsburg Augsburg ist Lt Col J R Hector
*G-239 LK Dillingen Dillingen Capt J H Mulcaney Jr
*G-240 LK Neu-Ulm Neu-Ulm ist Lt W C Weishaar
*G-241 LK Sonthofen Sonthofen Maj D S Root
*G-242 SK-LK Kempten Kempten Lt Col J R Case
*G-292 LK Donauwoerth Donauwoerth Maj H M Sebastian
*G-293 LK Guenzburg Guenzburg Maj A C Yoksas
*G-294 LK Markt Oberdorf Markt Oberdorf Capt B C Johnson
*G-295 LK Memmingen Memmingen Maj G Matthews Jr
*G-296 LK Mindelheinr Mindelheim 1st Lt J P Montgomery
*G-297 LK Neuburg Neuburg Capt T E Eshleman
*G-298 LK Noerdlingen Noerdlingen Capt R H Knowles
*G-299 LK Fuessen Fuessen Capt R W Anderson
*G-300 LK Krumbach Krumbach Capt H V_Worthington
*G-369 LK Illertissen Illertissen Capt S G Real
*G-370 LK Kaufbeuren, Kaufbeuren Mai M G Norum
*G-372 LK Wertingen Wertingen ist Lt J A Walker
*G-373 LK Friedberg Friedberg Capt R C Talcott
*G-374 LK Schwabmuenchen Schwabmuenchen Capt G H Waters Jr

LAND BREMEN (APO 751)

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Bremen Mr T F Dunn
Bremerhaven Detachement Bremerhaven Lt Col Alfred R Haig

BERLIN SECTOR (APO 742-A)

Office of Mil Gov
Berlin Sector Berlin Col F L Howley

* Liaison and Security

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF