--- Page 2 ---
=
: eo
Soe):
& a —
s >
z —
. ‘ 9
: >
o > aoe
a ?
sont 3)

C

GOVERNMENT IN GERMAN

MAGAZINE OF US MILITARY

PARADE IN BRONZE

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

PARADE IN BRONZE — Statues of
kings, poets, soldiers, inventors as
well as church bells have been
reprieved from their wartime doom
of being broken up and melted for
use in armaments. In Hamburg, these
“survivors” are being sorted and
returned to their original owners.

(photo by Friedrich Boeltz for HEUTE)

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest
organizations in the United States. The
Information Bulletin is distributed
without charge as a public service.

The editorial staff of the Information
Bulletin is a section of the Reports
and Statistics Branch, Control] Office,
OMGUS. Members of the staff are:
H. Warner Waid, editor; Henry
S. Matteo, assistant editor. Its office
is located in Directors Building,
Tooms 0043-0047, OMGUS Headquar-
ters, Berlin-Dahlem. Its mailing address
is: Information Bulletin, Control Office
OMGUS, Berlin, Germany; APO 742,
US Army. Telephone numbers are
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227,

Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source
cited with the article.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 138 June 29, 1948

Currency Reform

Stabilization Necessary Now .

Reform Fosters Recovery .

EUCOM Instructions
MG. School 134 mini opaictots deans ah
“The Great Rehearsal’ Placed in Libraries .
Berlin Gets 750 Tons of CRALOG Food .
Bavaria Helps Its Blind sae
Typhoid Outbreak Fought in Neuoetting .
Justice Case at Nuremberg (Part 1)
Hanover Fair (pictorial) . ale i
Laenderrat’s Functions Moved to Bizonal Level
Editorial Opinion

Meaning of Six-Power Agreement for Germany .

Bad Kissingen’s Handicraft and Trade Exhibition
Occupational Activities .
Official Instructions

Key MG Personnel

CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

INFORMATION
BULLETIN

13
14
15

oon noon w

16
18
19
21
23
24
26
27

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

--- Page 5 ---
HE LONG EXPECTED currency reform in Germany

began June 20 with the joint promulgation by the
Military Governments of Great Britain, the United
States and France of the first law for their respective
zones. The German territory under Soviet occupation
and the quadripartite-controlled city of Berlin did not
participate in the initial program.

The promulgations by the US Military Government
for the US Zone are MG Law No. 61, “First Law for
Monetary Reform (Currency Law), MG Ordinance
No. 25, “First Ordinance for the Exchange of Currency
by Displaced Persons,” and MG Regulation No. 1
under MG Law No. 61.

The old German money—the Reichsmark, the
Rentenmark and mark notes issued in Germany by the
Allied military authorities—became invalid June 21.
The newe currently is the Deutsche mark, which is
divided into 100 Deutsche pfennig.

The only exceptions are old mark notes and coins up
to a denomination of one mark. In order to prevent a
temporary shortage of small change, these small notes
and coins remained in use until further notice at one-
tenth their old or nominal value. Nobody, however,
need accept more than 50 pieces of small change in
payment of any kind. Postage stamps also remained
valid at one-tenth their nominal value,

As a first measure, each inhabitant of the three
western zones received a certain sum in the new
Deutsche mark, This per capita sum amounted to 60marks,
paid against an equal sum of old bank notes, Forty
marks were paid out Sunday, June 20; the remaining 20,
one month later. For example, for a family of four,
240 marks of old money could be paid in, for which
the family received immediely 160 Deutsche marks
and an additional 80 marks one month later.

THER MONEY held by the German public, as well
as savings accounts in banks, savings banks, and
postal savings institutions, were tobe converted into Deut-
sche marks at a later date. The conversion rate, which
would drastically reduce the total amount of money in
circulation, as well as other details concerning the
exchange of these amounts of money, were to be
published shortly after the first announcement in
further laws.
During this later conversion operation, the per capita
quota already received would be deducted from the
Deutsche mark funds then converted or credited to the

CURRENCY REFORM

This article contains only the initial announcements concerning Currency Reform. When all the laws have
been promulgated and are in operation, an article will be prepared for publication in the Information Bulletin.

individual. Thus, if a person had an account with a
bank which, through this later conversion, was reduced
to 200 Deutsche marks, he would still have ‘deducted
from this the 60 marks which he already received as
his per capita quota in the new currency.

The per capita quota was paid June 20 by the same
offices issuing food rationing stamps. In order to receive
the new money, all persons had to observe the follow-
ing instructions:

Individuals must show their food rations and identity
cards and hand in 60 marks in old money. As far as
families are concerned, the per capita quota for the
whole family were delivered to the head of the family
after he had produced the food ration and identity
cards for each family member and had handed in
60 marks for each person.

ERSONS WHO were physically incapable of

appearing themselves might send a representative
who, however, had to be authorized by a letter stating
tae reason for non-appearance of the person concerned,
If the head of a family was incapacitated, by sickness,
or otherwise, from appearing, another member of the
family could pick up the per capita quota, again sub-
mitting an authorization. Special regulations applied
to travelers; they were to find them at the nearest
food rations office. ;

Wages and salaries had to be paid in the new
currency as of June 20. Wage and salary receipients
who were paid on a bimonthly or monthly basis in
advance were to get a reimbursement of 70 percent, in’
new money, for the days between the tenth day after
currency reform and their next pay day (for which
they were paid in advance in old currency).

There was a moratorium of one week for all money
obligations in Reichsmark. That was to say: during the
week ended June 26, no debts should be paid.

Prices were not affected by the currency reform. In
all laws, administrative regulations, contracts, etc., the
new curency simply replaced the old.

Business enterprises, upon application, received
advances to tide them over. This aid in new Deutsche
mark depended on the number of employees and the
size of their holdings in old money. In principle, they
teceived 80 marks per employee, the total aid not to
exceed their holding in old currency.

In preparation for the exchange of old money in cir-
culation and bank accounts, the old money now in the

Continued on Page 13

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 6 ---
CORES OF Military Government
employees, recently declared sur-
plus from US occupational activities,
have been appearing with enthusiasm
before a new institution, the Oral Ex-
amining Boards set up by the OMGUS
Personnel Office to screen applicants
for the position of county liaison
officer. Those accepted have begun to
go to school again at Oberammergau
in Southern Bavaria.

The trip to Oberammergau is not all
play. Rather, it means serious study
and attendance at classes for about
40 hours a week, with homework in
the evenings, for more than three
weeks. After this refreshener, the
graduates will try their hand at being
MG liaison officers in the counties of
the US Zone.

The positions of liaison officer,
although recently reduced in number,
have taken on a new urgency in the
MG program, due to reduction of per-
sonnel and concentration of functions,
and have assumed greater possibilities
for furthering the occupation.

HE NEED for training county

liaison officers in the US Zone
became apparent during the latter part
of 1946. Most of the liaison officers
Serving at that time had received MG
training in the United States or in
England. As many of these officers

JUNE 29, 1948

By Fred C. Dirks
Deputy Chief, Governmental Structure Branch
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS

became eligible for redeployment, new
recruits had to be obtained and these
came mainly from EUCOM military
units, and had no previous MG ex-
perience.

After a survey of available training
facilities, the Control Office, OMGUS,
took the initiative in March 1947 in
working out a program for three
weeks of orientation for the county
liaison officers at the EUCOM Intel-
ligence School in Oberammergau.

The Intelligence School, located in
this little mountain village famous for
the Passion Play, close to the Austrian
border, uses a group of barracks which
was attached during the war to an
underground assembly plant for jet
planes. The buildings are still camou-
flaged but otherwise life in the peace-
ful village has few reminders of the
war,

Most of the students in the school
—more than 200—are training for
various Army and MG intelligence
programs. The MG course with around
40 students comprises, therefore, only
a minor part of the Intelligence School.
OMGUS assigns MG students, and

Above photo — scene of a classroom
during discussion of agricultural
questions. (Photo from ECIS School)

3

maintains an MG representative to
observe student progress, to collate
new OMGUS directives and imple-
menting instructions, and to assist the
school in securing guest speakers on
MG subjects,

S THE COURSE was first set up,

about one-third of the 90 hours
of classroom time provided background
understanding of the German people,
their history, and their institutional
practices. Enlightening aspects of
German history, geography, education-
al development, religious movements, ©
government structure, and political
parties have been emphasized.

Additional background was provided
by reviewing some of the institutional
practices of the other occupying
powers, showing how differences im
their national organization and political
predilections have tended to be re-
flected in their respective occupation
policies. The remaining half of the
course then dealt with the specific
problems of occupation, sketching
quickly the major objectives and
policies, and taking up the concrete
measures through which these have to
be carried out.

During the early months of the
school, the program placed a heavy
emphasis on military security and on
the negative phases of MG policy such

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 7 ---
as demilitarization, denazification tri-
bunals, investigation and MG court
procedure. More recently, the balance
of emphasis‘in the MG course has
tended to shift toward the positive
programs still remaining to be ac-
complished.

More time is now spent analyzing
the problems faced by Military Gov-
ernment—at headquarters as well as
at local levels—in such varying fields
as revival of industrial and agricultural
production, foreign trade, labor re-
lations, housing, education, political
philosophy, and concrete measures for
arousing local German interest in dis-
cussing these problems.

S OPERATIONS along the former

negative lines are gradually
wound up, the function of the county
liaison officer becomes increasingly
one of public relations work, follow-
ing up in local communities the re-
orientation efforts begun by MG broad-
casts and other public information
releases, helping to make the Germans
realize that our chief occupational aim
is to interest local Germans to acquire
democratic control of their govern-
mental policies.

In providing prospective liaison of-
ficers with background on these pro-
blems and an insight into the delicacies
of judgment required in meeting prac-
tical questions, the instructors of the
Oberammergau School have been
helped by a variety of guest speakers,
some of them practicing liaison officers
and some technical experts from state
headquarters.

In the first year of operation, the
MG School faced many training pro-
blems, some of them outside its juris-
diction to solve. One, for example, was
the problem of developing in the
students a detailed technical compe-

tence in a great variety of fields
covering the whole range of municipal
government.

So long as county liaison personnel
were obliged to supervise and directly
intervene in the operation of virtually
all local government matters, they
needed a range of professional back-
ground which would normally take
years, if not decades, to acquire. The
problem of condensing such training
into an oversimplified and yet useful
package was one which ‘could not
really be solved until MG policy was
revised to eliminate the occasion for
operational intervention.

The duties of the liaison officer
have become increasingly restrict-
ed to providing intelligence and stimu-
lating local populations to take an in-
terest in exercising political and civic
rights.

Today the pressure for immediate
technical decisions is relieved, and
difficult questions can be treated more
generally in terms of requisite tact
and background information. The
present MG course at Oberammer-
gau goes far toward meeting this
training objective.

NOTHER DIFFICULT PROBLEM

during the first year of the
school arose from the method of
Selecting military personnel to be
assigned as county liaison officiers.
In response to requests from the
state directors, requisitions for new
county personnel were made to
EUCOM, and in many cases tended to
be filled in an arbitrary manner by
unit commanders without regard to
the fitness or inclination of officers for
Military Government work.

In fact, less than 20 percent of the
officers assigned to Military Govern-

(Left) Dining hall at the school. (Right) ECIS Chapel at Oberammergau,
with Bavarian Alps in background.

(photos by Matilda Goodwin)

ment work and sent to the school
during 1947 had applied for that type
of service, and many good officers —
who did apply were not approved
because they were too useful to their —
unit commanders. Moreover, few of |
the officers had had college training
or professional background.

[HE PROBLEM of personnel selec-

tion was helped greatly by the ©
civilianization program which was_
drafted last summer by the OMGUS |
Personnel Office assisted by other
interested divisions. This program —
called originally for placing all county
liaison officers on a civilian basis by —
July 1948, Incumbent military per-~
sonnel were not to be civilianized into
their jobs automatically, but were to ~
appear before oral. examining boards —
for an evaluation interview. New ap-
plicants for county jobs were also to ~
appear before the review boards.

These examining boards were e€s-
tablished by the OMGUS Personnel
Office with three members, represent-
ing the Personnel Office and two other
functional divisions of OMGUS. Their
task was to weed out present liaison
officers who seemed uninterested or —
unfitted for their work; and to screen
the hundreds of new applicants who
have applied for this sort of work —
following termination of their former
work with OMGUS and state MG ©
divisions.

In general, each applicant has ap-_
peared for 45 minutes or more before
a board and has been questioned to
find how well informed he is on Amer-
ican political and labor practices, on |
similar practices in Germany, and on
the general economic problems with
which Germany is faced. The appli-
cant’s answers on these subjects have ©
usually provided a fair basis for judg-_
ing how he would respond in answer-
ing similar informational queries and —

--- Page 8 ---
arguments from local Germans; on his
ability to meet people; his judgment
and other qualities desirable in an
American liaison officer.

N MAKING their recommendations,

the examining boards have also
weighed heavily any previous ex-
perience of the applicants in Military
Government work, and the final de-
cisions of the Personnel Office have
also taken into account recommenda-
tions of the state directors.

The result of the examining boards’
work has been reflected already in the
first group of MG students selected
under the new program and sent to
Oberammergau in April. Then, for the
first time, the class was comprised
entirely of men who had applied
voluntarily for the job and who were
interested in finding out as much as
they could it from the instructors.
Drawn from various functional divis-
ions, they brought a variety of pro-
fessional backgrounds which added
greatly to class discussions and com-
pelled the instructors to modify and
to raise the level of instruction.

FINAL training problem still re-

maining for the school concerns
the procurement of qualified guest
speakers. In view of the school's loca-
tion, it has been difficult to get
speakers from centers farther away
then OMGB headquarters in Munich,
and pressure of current work has fre-
quently obliged prospective speakers
to cancel their trips at the last moment
or to send substitutes. As the numbers
of MG personnel in state headquarters
and in the counties are further cut
back, increasing difficulty is expected
in securing guest speakers.

While the initial orientation of
county eliaison officers seems to be
well under control, the provision of
continuous consultation and guidance
in meeting new situations and in inter-
preting new angles of MG policy is
still under discussion.

So far, there appear to be no uni-
form facilities-in the various states of
the US Zone for bringing together
county liaison officers or other MG
Personnel to exchange experiences
and ideas in handling new situations.
In Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden,
liaison officers are brought to state
headquarters once a month for a few

JUNE 29, 1948

Reference library, especially its material on post-Nazi Germany, is a

valuable part of the school.

hours to present administrative or
policy problems which they may feel
are being handled unsatisfactorily.
In Bavaria, where the liaison offices
are farther from state headquarters,
liaison officers do not meet regularly.

URING THE FIRST half of 1947,

meetings were sponsored . by
OMGUS in all the regional head-
quarters at which liaison officers and
other personnel were addressed by the
Military Governor, the Deputy Mili-
tary Governor, and the political ad-
viser to the Military Governor, but
these meetings provided little oppor-

The MG School at Oberammer-
gau is under the supervision of
the CAD's Governmental Struc-
tures Branch, of which Mr. Dirks
is deputy chief. Mr. Dirks for-
merly was with the Finance
Division, OMGUS, and with the
Federal Reserve Board.

tunity for the listeners to exchange
experiences and ideas with each other.
At the end of September, OMGB
convened four regional seminars of a
day each in Wuerzburg, Nuremberg,
Regensburg and Munich, at which
liaison officers had an opportunity to
engage in discussions and to get help-
ful comments from functional experts
visiting from Munich and Berlin.

For the future, the provision of dis-
cussion opportunities and functional
guidance may be approached in either
of two ways. One would be additional

5

(Photo from ECIS School)

regional seminars such as were held
in Bavaria last September, to occupy
a day or two every month. An alter-
native approach would be the institu-
tion of a formal refresher course at
some central point such as the In-
telligence Schoo] in Oberammergau.

Current discussions of possible
training programs include the question
whether they should be extended to
embrace all professional MG personnel
intending to remain in Germany for
some time, rather than merely county
liaison officers. Among the advantages
of broadening the training program in
this way is the aid it would give func-
tional specialists in reviewing their
own programs and keeping them in
balance with over-all broad occupation
programs, and the opportunity which
would be afforded policy draftsmen to
meet with local officers charged with
applying these policies, so that each
might become aware of the obstacles
and problem encountered by the other,

N THIS CONNECTION, it is inter-

esting to observe that the British
Military Government some six months
ago established a school with orienta-
tion and advanced courses, not merely
for county liaison officers, but for
bringing together representatives from
all segments of Military Government,
including the Foreign Office in Lon-
don. This approach stresses the bene-
fits to be obtained from having such
diverse groups become aware of each
other's problems and to develop in
the process a feeling of working
together in an integrated organization.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
“The Great Rehearsal”

Placed in Libraries

One hundred ‘copies of Carl Van
Doren's “The Great Rehearsal", a
book about the making of the con-
stitution of the United States, are
being distributed to textbook and in-
formation centers and _ university
libraries in the US Occupied Areas of
Germany as a result of the efforts of
George B. McKibbin, governmental
administration adviser of OMGUS.

Mr. McKibbin became convinced
that an account of the vicissitudes
encountered by the fledgling United
States such as is recounted in “The
Great Rehearsal might encourage
the German people to face their pre-
sent problems with new patience.
Therefore he wrote Viking Press,
offering to contribute $100 toward
the purchase of 100 copies, to be used
for the benefit of German educators
and scholars.

Mr. Van Doren waived his royalties,
the book club which sponsored the
book agreed, and Viking consented
to furnish the books at less than cost.

Representatives from the Civil Ad-
ministration Division, Information
Control Division and Education and
Cultural Relations Division met with
Mr. McKibbin and a plan for the
distribution of the books was decided
upon.

Thirty-three of the volumes are
going to Bavaria for use in textbook
centers, information centers, and the
Universities of Munich, Erlangen,
Regensburg and Wuerzburg.

Eighteen will be placed in Hesse,
in the Universities of Frankfurt, Mar-
burg, and in libraries, textbook and
information centers.

The University of Heidelberg will
receive three of the 18 copies which
are being sent to Wuerttemberg-Baden,
the University of Berlin one copy of
the 25 to be distributed in the city,
others going to libraries and textbook

centers. Bremen jis receiving four
copies for information centers. and
libraries.

One copy each will be sent to the
University of Tuebingen in the French
Zone and to the University of Goet-
tingen in the British Zone.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Berlin Gets 750 Tons of CRALOG Food

Needy persons totaling 319,000 in
the four sectors of Berlin have re-
ceived 1,500,000 pounds of food from
CRALOG since the beginning of its
Berlin relief program April 1, 1947,
public welfare officials of OMG Berlin
Sector have announced.

Approximately 40 percent of the
CRALOG total food distribution to date,
went to residents of the Soviet Sector,
28 percent to the US Sector, 19 per-
cent to the British and 13 percent to
the French.

Allocation of the CRALOG food
donations to the most needy children,
adults and aged persons in Berlin is
the responsibility of the welfare office
of the City Magistrat. Allocations are
on a population basis and are deter-
mined by the number of persons
within the category to which each
feeding program applies.

Actual distribution of the food is
made by the main welfare office in
cooperation with three private agen-
cies—Caritas Verband, Arbeiter Wohl-
fahrt, and Evangelisches Hilfswerk.

Growing interest of the American
public in CRALOG's Berlin relief pro-
gram is evidenced by constantly in-
creasing contributions. During Feb-
ruary and March of this year more
food was sent to the Berlin CRALOG
office from the United States than dur-
ing the entire year of 1947, In April
alone almost 250,000 pounds of food
were distributed in Berlin from
CRALOG donations,

All CRALOG food distributions are
made under special feeding programs,
six of which have been completed.
Last year 11,000 self-supporting women
each received .a six-pound food pack-
age. Under a six-week summer feed-
ing program, 10,000 youngsters, age
three to six, each received one meal
daily. About 54,000 persons more than
60 years of age were served one meal
daily for a period of three and half
months last winter.

Four and five-pound food packages
were distributed last March to 18,000
women rubble workers, and 3,000 stu-
dents of Technical University and
music and art colleges. During April,
6,000 voluntary social welfare workers
each received a five-pound package.

6

Under two current feeding programs
started April 1, each of more than
258,000 school children, aged 9 to 13
inclusive, received one roll daily to
supplement their regular school lunch,
and 19,000 university student each
received a daily supplementary ration
of two rolls,

Under another program begun in
late May, women pregnant from two
to four months are given a five-pound
package of flour. About 7,000 women
are benefitted.

Tentative plans for a summer re-
creation and recuperational program
would provide two balanced meals
daily to 110,000 undernourished child-
ren in three categories: preschool
youngsters, children aged 6 to 14, and
youth groups. The program is planned
for the period June to September, and
is administered through play centers
and recuperational camps in the Berlin —
area.

The bulk of the food distributed
under the CRALOG relief program is
a gift from five American organiza-
tions: Lutheran World Relief, Church
World Service, American Friends
Society, Mennonite Central Com-
mittee, War Relief Services, and the
US labor unions.

The largest single donation to
CRALOG for Berlin was more than
1,000 tons of wheat from CROP,
15 percent of the organization's total
wheat gift for Germany. About 100 tons
of this wheat has been milled and
distributed to needy Berlin school
children and students under the “roll
program.” The balance will be milled
and distributed in succeeding months.

CRALOG food donations to date
comprise about 85 percent of the or-
ganization's relief activities in Berlin.
Other CRALOG distribution projects
consist of clothing and medical and
miscellaneous supplies.

Soviet Zone—USSR Trade Plan

A reorientation of Soviet Zone
foreign trade policies was announced
by Josef Orlopp, head of the zone's
interzonal and foreign trade depart-
ment, at the Institute for Economics
in Berlin, He said the Soviet Union
would be the main partner in Soviet
Zone foreign trade in the future.

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 10 ---
SAVARIA HELPS

© © jis BLIND

F BAVARIA's nine million people

there are more than 6,000 citizens
who have stumbled over ruins and
rubble without ever having seen them.
Nor did they see this year’s spring
come to Bavaria’s hills and fertile
valleys. They are the totally blind.

The ranks of these people who
because of congenital weaknes or ac-
cident must live in total darkness
were substantially increased during
World War II.

In order that they can become useful
citizens again in an economy that
could ill afford to have them other-
wise, certain provisions have to be
made for their future. They must be
rehabilitated by training which will
help them to earn their own living
once again.

Through much effort and patience it
has been proven that the blind, once
trained, are as efficient as those who
have their sight. Occupations for
which the blind are especially adopted
include machine knitters, basket

By John A. Biggs
Deputy PIO, OMG Bavaria

makers, telephone operators, typists,
stenographers, masseurs, lawyers,
teachers and singers.

However, many of these vocations
take months of concentrated prepara-
tion.

Training a blind person to become
a stenographer, for instance, takes
nine months. At the end of that time
the graduate should be able to handle
120 words a minute.

After six months of training a tele-
phone operator is expected to operate
a switchboard with a _ ten-place
minimum.

A masseur must go through nine
months of rigorous training and within
that time must have mastered the
principles of anatomy, pathology,
psychology and hygiene.

War's aftermath presented its
own particular problems to the
blind. Currently it is almost impos-
sible to place blind mechanics because
of the shortage of raw materials. Or-
dinarily the labor association for dis-

(Left) Specially marked cards enable the blind to enjoy a friendly game.

(Right) Lesson qiven in taking dictation.

(Photos from PIO OMGB)

State Director Murray Van Wagoner
of OMG Bavaria with a future ‘‘seeing-
eye” dog which he presented to the
dog school.

(Amy Signal Corps photo)

abled blind maintains special work
shops for the blind. They provide raw
materials and handle the sale of finish-
ed products for the membership work-
men.

NE OF TODAY's most worthwhile
contributions towards rehabilita-
tion of the blind is the school for dogs
for the blind, established in Munich im-
mediately after World War II by the
Bavarian Red Cross. This school,
supported by private donations, has
kennel accomodations for 100 dogs.
However, suitable dogs to be train-
ed and materials used in training are

--- Page 11 ---
at a premium. At present there are
about 80 dogs being schooled, hardly
enough to make a dent in the backlog
of well over 3,000 requests for “seeing
eye” dogs.

The average training time for each
dog is eight weeks. During this period
he is put through a series of exercises
in the obstacle gardens of the school.
These exercises simulate problems to
be encountered by the blind in their
daily round including curbs, steps,
crowded traffic conditions and ditches.
During this time the trainer painstak-
ingly watches for any emotional weak-
nesses in the dog that will make him
unsuitable for the work for which he
has been chosen.

When he completes preliminary
training he is then assigned to his
future owner. Together man and dog
must go through an additional period
of training. For the man must learn to
take care of the dog who will take
care of him. So far these eyes with
wagging tails have been presented to
some 60 sightless who, without them,
would be virtually helpless.

HE TWO LEADING organizations

in Bavaria for the blind are the
Bavarian Association for the Blind
with a membership of approximately
4,500 and the Association for Disabled
Blind with 1,500 sightless, most of
them war casualties.

Three vocational schools have been
opened for these veterans and other
persons who lost their sight in World
War II. These are located at Furth,
Reichenbach and Wetzhausen. In ad-
dition to these, the Bavarian Associa-
tion for the blind operates four
schools, two recreational homes and
four homes for aged blind, one at
Munich and the other at Nuremberg.

Another acute problem facing the
blind today is the housing shortage.
More than 20 percent of all blind per-
sons living in Munich have been
bombed out, while 60 percent were
partly bombed. In Wuerzburg the blind
lost everything they had. This short-
age of living space has been further
aggravated by the influx of 600 blind
refugees from Czechoslovakia and the
eastern territories within the last
couple of years,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Typhoid Outbreak Fought in Neuoetting

ETWEEN 20 and 25 new cases of

typhoid are occurring daily since
the outbreak early in May of the
second epidemic of the disease in
three years in the village of Neu-
oetting in Altoetting County, Bavaria.
As of June 13 there have been 810
cases and 34 deaths in the county.

Neuoetting, located approximately
65 miles east of Munich, is the site
of the Shrine of St. Margaret to which
thousands of religious pilgrims attend
every week. The influx of these pil-
grims was not effectively halted until
after the second week of the epidemic.
In the first 13 days of June, 23 new
cases of typhoid reported in 13 other
counties of Bavaria were traceable to
Neuoetting, while 67 other cases in
Bavaria were not traceable to this
source.

The epidemic was believed by public
health officials to have been caused
by a defective water chlorination
system and an impaired water main
system permitting cross contamination
with sewage. A serious typhoid out-
break occurred in the same town in
November 1946, resulting in 350 cases
and 26 deaths. At that time only 1,100

of the 5,000 inhabitants consented to
voluntary ‘vaccination.

During the present epidemic, 747
emergency hospital beds have been
set up in two schools. A team of six
doctors, 60 nurses and four disin-
fectors were sent to the area by the
German public health office in Munich,
A widespread program of immunization
with anti-typhoid vaccine has been
put into effect. German police are
maintaining strict supervision over
German traffic. .

The town of Neuoetting has been
placed “off limits” to all US and
Allied personnel. AFN Munich has
repeatedly broadcast warnings of the
epidemic and informed all US per-
sonnel to stay away from the area.
No troops are billeted in Neuocetting,
the nearest military installation being
at Erding to the west.

The Public Health Branch, OMG Ba-
varia, is maintaining close supervision
of the epidemic and is in daily liaison
with OMGUS public health officials,
the EUCOM surgeons office in Heidel-
berg, and the office of the base sur-
geon in Munich.

Chest Funds Aid GYA

More than 9,000 German youngsters,
members of the 11 American-sponsored
German Youth Clubs in Berlin, have
begun work on numerous creative
activities with materials purchased
from proceeds of the Community Chest
drive conducted in the American com-
munity of Berlin last fall.

The first shipment of supplies arriv-
ed in May. Included were more than
100 yards of material for clothes,
thread and needles, knitting yarn,
sewing equiment of all kinds, model-
ing clay, drawing pads, pencils, cray-
ons, and paints.

Two other larger shipments, expect-
ed to arrive in Berlin in the near
future, will include more sewing sup-
plies, material for arts and crafts
groups, and sports equipment.

Current projects include making
garments for the needy, learning
manual skills in clay modeling, paint-
ing, gardening and others. A major
part of the material and yarn is being

8

used by girls’ sewing groups in the
youth centers to make clothing for
orphans and children's hospitals.

Jews Willing to Leave

More than 70 percent of the Jews
living in Germany and Austria are
willing to emigrate to Palestine im-
mediately, Chaim Hoffmann, director
of the Jewish Agency for the two
countries, announced in Munich while
commenting on the recent establish-
ment of the Jewish state of Israel.

This figure includes 15,000 youths
who pledged to accept any civilian or
military positions in the service of
the new state, he said.

Hoffmann disclosed that mass
transportation would start in July,
and the dissolution of all Jewish DP
camps could be expected by the
middle of next year. Approximately
40,000 Jews from Germany and 15,000
from Austria have entered or at-
tempted to enter Palestine thus far.—
ICD's News of Germany.

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
The opinion of the MG Military Tribunal in the Justice
case at Nuremberg in December is considered in the judicial
and legal professions as an outstanding contribution to the
understanding and interpretation of international justice.
Charles M. LaFolette, who was the prosecutor at that trial
and is now state director of OMG Wuerttemberg - Baden,
delivered before the Interzonal Conference of Lawyers and
Justice Officials in Munich on June 3 a 15,000-word review
of the case, opinion and implications. The text of the address
has been adapted for use in five installments in the IB.

justi

By Charles M. LaFollette

urember

CASE

Charles M. LaFoleite,

Director, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden

Part I

HE CASE, tried at Nuremberg

against the members of the Reich
Ministry of Justice and judges of the
People’s Court and the Special Courts
of Nuremberg and Stuttgart under an
indictment charging war crimes and
crimes against humanity, is a case of
extraordinary interest to lawyers. I
had the obligation to prosecute that
case,

I believe that not only a real con-
tribution was made to the body of
international law by the trial of this
case but also that valuable lessons
can be learned by the legal profession
and by laymen all over the world
from the evidence produced there.

If a person distrusts the fairness of
the procedure he undervaluates the
important principles of international
law announced and applied in this
case. These public pronouncements
Contain charges which can be roughly
placed in three categories: (1) that the
battle is not even, that is to say, the
defendants are handicapped in their
defense, (2) that at trials, other than
Nuremberg, physical duress was used
to obtain evidence, (3) that it is wrong
to try Germans for crimes while the
Same crimes have been or are being
Committed by individuals of other
nations,

First, the presecution in the Justice
case offered 76 affidavits and of

JUNE 29, 1948

these the defense called 64 of the
affiants. Of the 518 affidavits offered
by the defense the prosecution called
three affiants. Total challenged: 67
affiants out of 594.

Nearly 85 percent of the affiants
used by the prosecution were called
and subjected to cross examination
by the defense. Can it be fairly said
that these Justice defendants were
denied the opportunity to confront
their accusers in the Anglo-Saxon
tradition?

In the Justice case I quote the fol-
lowing from the judgment.

“Copies of the exhibits tendered by
the prosecution were furnished in the
German language to the defendants
prior to the time of the reception of
the exhibits in evidence. The Tribunal
has heard the oral testimony of 138
witnesses. In addition it has received
641 documentary exhibits for the pro-
secution and 1,452 for defendants
many of them of considerable length.
Some affidavits have been presented
by the prosecution, but they are few
in comparison with the hundreds of-
fered by the defense.

“Whenever possible, and in sub-
stantially all cases, applications of de-
fense counsel for the production in
open court of persons who had made
affidavits in support of the pro-
secution, have been granted and the
affiants have appeared for cross exam-
ination. Affiants for the defense
were cross examined orally by the

9

inal 15 defendants.

as prosecutor for Case
Three, reading the indictment against the orig-

(Photo by PIO OCCWC)

prosecution in few
cases,”

As the court in the Justice case has
pointed out conviction in almost
every case can be made upon written;
public records or from the private
records of the defendants themselves
or of corporations in which they par-
ticipated in direct or policy-making
capacities.

ECONDLY, there are presently
being publicly circulated rumors
of mistreatment of prisoners and wit-
nesses in order to obtain convictions
at the Dachau trials. Of course, con-
victions if any based upon material
evidence obtained by use of coercive
methods should and will be set aside
and if any persons are in fact guilty
of using such methods they must and
will be punished. But a due regard for
the rights and dignity of the govern-
ment of the United States would
restrain men of good faith from
spreading rumors based upon post-
trial affidavits, before the government
had had either an opportunity to in-
vestigate or had declared to the rumor
circulators its refusal to do so. The
government of the United States has
been accorded no such opportunity to
investigate by these rumor circulators
before they jumped into print, there-
fore, it has likewise not refused to in-
vestigate.
The giving of publicity to rumors
under such circumstances can only
result in nurturing the wish of those

comparatively

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
in Germany, who once embraced and
still today embrace ideas of racial
superiority and its corollary racial
hatred, militarism, and the power to
oppress, to make martyrs of the com-
mon criminal convicted in the Nurem-
berg processes. These, indeed, are the
very forces which the liberal Germans
seek to convert and to prevent from
seizing power once again before
complete conversion. I am discussing
now effects. I leave motives to the
consciences of those who have done
this harm.

If at Nuremberg evidence has
disclosed any clumsy attempts at
duress through words, lawyers
must first consider the source.

a defense for the criminal nor a valid
charge of partiality or lack of courage
against judges or prosecutors that
they do not bring to trial those, over
whom they have no jurisdiction.

It is no argument against the valid-
ity of a law universal in recognition
among civilized nations, that in some
jurisdictions where it is recognized as
valid it is not enforced. Such a fact,
if it is a fact, does not constitute a
defense to a man charged with violat-
ing it, in a court which does enforce
it, nor is it valid to denounce a court
for enforcing a law within its compe-
tence, purely because some other

torial boundaries of the state or in
occupied tefritory, has been un-
questioned (Ex parte Quirin, supra;
Yamashita, 90 L. ed. 343). However,
enforcement of international law has
been traditionally subject to practical
limitations.

“Thus, notwithstanding the para-
mount authority of the substantive
tules of common international law
the doctrines of national sovereignty
have been preserved through the con-
trol of enforcement machinery. It must
be admitted that Germans were not
the only ones who were guilty of
committing war crimes; other violators
of international law could no
doubt, be tried and punished

Above all, as lawyers, they
must determine, first’ whether
any duress in fact took place
and second, even assuming that
it did, whether or not the evi-
dence so obtained is material
or immaterial to the conviction
of any defendant. If it was not,
then we must not let our low
regard for the legal capacity of
a lawyer, who would act so
stupidly, influence our objective
evalution of the rules of law
laid down and the results
obtained at Nuremberg. We
should do more — once con-
vinced of the value of the
results of Nuremberg we owe
a duty not only to Ger-
mans but to Americans to
dispel the effect of rumors
which have devaluated those

I believe that the work was not in vain,
measured not by the resulting sentences, —
for I thirst not for the blood of any man nor
do I contemplate with pleasure his imprison-
ment — but by the judicial imprimature
thereby obtained upon a set of rules of con-
duct for all men, to which mankind may
again turn in the future as it searches for the
standards which make peaceful living toge-
ther possible

But if these values which I know are valu-
able are to be valued and cherished by the
common man, they must not be permitted
to be devalued for him by those who either
thoughtlessly or deliberately act in a manner
which can only result in their devaluation.
It also follows that even men who are skilled
in the law and desire good can be tempor-
arily led astray if such acts are not attacked
head-on when they arise. — Excerpt from
Director LaFollette’‘s Speech.

by the state of which they were
nationals, by the offended
state if it can secure juris-
diction of the person, or by an
international tribunal of com-
petent authorized jurisdiction,

“Applying these principles, it
appears that the power to
punish violators of international
law in Germany is not solely
dependent on the enactment of
tules of substantive penal law
applicable only in Germany.
Nor is the apparent immunity
from prosecution of criminals
in other states based on the
absence there of the rules of
international law which we
enforce here.

“Only by giving consider-
ation to the extraordinary and

values,

HERE IS a third argument advanc-

ed and spread broadcast, which
should never amount to the dignity
of an argument among men professing
an understanding of the ethics upon
which stable societies can be built.
It is the argument that in other places
and other jurisdictions other individ-
uals are allegedly committing like
crimes and are not being tried and
convicted. Such an argument chooses
to ignore the sound rule that two
wrongs do not make a right. Or the
corollary, that a man may not be
heard in his own defense to avoid
convictions on the ground that some
other person within the same juris-
dictions has committed a like crime.
It is even to a greater degrees neither

INFORMATION BULLETIN

court in some other jurisdiction re-
fuses to enforce it.

I quote from the decision in the
Justice case:

“This universality and superiority
of international law does not neces-
sarily imply universality of its enfor-
cement. As to the punishment of per-
sons guilty of violating the laws and
customs of war (war crimes in the
narrow sense), it has always been
recognized that tribunals may be
established and punishment imposed
by the state into whose hands the’
perpetrators fall. Those rules of inter-
national law were recognized as para-
mount, and jurisdiction to enforce
them by the injured belligerent gov-
ernment, whether within the terri-

10

temporary situation in Germany
can the procedure here be
harmonized with established principles
of national sovereignty. In Germany,
an international body (the Control
Council) has assumed and exercised
the power to establish judicial ma-
chinery for the punishment of those
who have violated the rules of the
common international law, a power
which no international authority
without consent could assume or
exercise within a state having @
national government presently in the
exercise of its sovereign powers.”

[HE DISCUSSION just completed
should satisfy not only lawyers
but laymen, who have honest mis-
givings as to the reasoning behind
and the legally correct application of

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
international law in the cases tried
at Nuremberg. It will not satisfy
those who attack the Nuremberg pro-
ceedings with evil intent, but it should
supply these, who desire to combat
the harm done by them, with argu-
ments based upon law, logic and com-
mon morality.

It will be understood by honest men
that the last argument does not touch
upon the charge that the court is a
victor’s court and therefore its judg-
ments do not represent impartiality
of judgment. The charge of impar-
tiality has been heretofore faced and
met. It is also proper to observe that
those who charge that other criminals
subject to other jurisdictions are not
also being tried are complaining of
the fact that present conditions in the
world community do provide us with
a permanent international tribunal in
which the rules of international law
can be applied against all individuals
who violate international law.

HERE ARE two kinds of poeple

in the world, negative carping
critics and those who try to take some
positive action to correct theoretical
inadequacies in a system. The estab-
lishment by the nations, through UN,
of such a court is the next step ur-
gently needed in the development of
an international society under which
the people of the world may hope to
escape the scourge of war. The
measures by which to test the sincer-
ity of a critic are the actions he has
taken to speak out, propose and urge
and advocate the creation of such a
court,

Hans Kelsen, prior to the coming to
being of UN, has presented an excel-
lent plan for the incorporation of such
a court. Despite the efforts of a few
of us to have it considered at the
time of the creation of UN it was not
seriously debated. However, one re-
jection is no excuse for abandoning
the effort. In fact, this positive ap-
Proach to the elimination of war is
the essence of Christianity. It distin-
guishes it from all other theologies.
True disciples of Christ understand
this, for it was not idly written: “Be
ye doers of the Word not hearers
only." (James 1 +22)

JUNE 29, 1948

Franz Schlegelberger, former state secretary and acting Reichsminister,
making his plea of not guilty. He was sentenced to life imprisonment
after being found guilty of the charges of war crimes and crimes against

humanity.

These who prosecuted the Justice
case fully realized that truth. In con-
cluding the opening argument we
made a statement upon which I stand
today and for which I shall stand as
long as I live:

“Therefore, although this indictment
is brought in the name of Govern-
ment of the United States, this case in
substance is the People of the World
against these men who have com-
mitted criminal acts against the com-
munity we know as the world. For
surely few spots on this earth are so
remote that they have not felt in
some degree the disruptive, if not in-
deed the destructive, impact of the
criminal acts of these men or these
others whom they served and with
whose acts they were criminally
connected.

“Therefore, unless all countries of
the World fight a continuous struggle
to match the moral conscience of the
world which has been asserted here,
the result will be a cynical Germany
and an apathetic amoral world which
drifts aimlessly, because it sees no
national conduct, which matches the
standards of moral conduct, which
are proclaimed here.

“The true significance of these pro-
ceedings, therefore far transcends the
mere question of the guilt or inno-
cence of the defendants. They are
charged with murder, but this is no
mere murder trial. These proceedings
invoke the moral standards of the
civilized world, and thereby impose
an obligation on the nations of the

11

(Photo by PIO OCCWC)

world to measure up to the standards
applied here,

“The United States cannot evade
the challenge of these responsibilities.
We can fulfill but the smallest part
of them at Nuremberg. But Nurem-
berg must be a symbol, not of re-
venge or of smug sSself-satisfaction
but of peace and good will among
nations and peoples. It is the crime of
shattering the foundations of peace
and denying the very fact of human-
ity that is charged in this and other
proceedings at Nuremberg, It is by
tyring these charges under law, and
in quest of truth, that Nuremberg will
find its full measure of justification.”

HE TEST of the fairness of the
Nuremberg proceedings is not
that of citizenship. On the contrary,
it is the understanding of prosecutors
and judge of the fact that, absent
theoretical impartiality by reason of
citizenship, they shall evidence impar-
tiality in fact. We have demonstrated
the state of mind by which the prose-
cution approached its task, the fol-
lowing questions from the judgment in
the Justice case demonstrates the im-
partiality of the court's treatment of
the issue and therefore the defendants.
“We turn to a consideration and
classification of the evidence. The
prosecution has introduced captured
documents in great number which
establish the Draconic character of
the Nazi criminal laws and prove
that the death penalty was imposed
by courts in thousands of cases. Cases
in which the extreme penalty was im-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
posed may in large measure be classi-
fied in the following groups:

1. Cases against proven habitual
criminals;

2. Cases of looting in the devastat-
ed ares of Germany; commited after
air raids and under cover of black-
out;

3. Crimes against the war economy
— rationing, hoarding, and the like;

4, Crimes amounting to an under-
mining of the defensive strength of
the nation; defeatist remarks, criticism
of Hitler, and the like;

5. Crimes of
treason;

treason and high

6. Crimes of various types com-
mitted by Poles, Jews, and other for-
eigners;

7. Crimes committed under the
‘Nacht und Nebel’ (Night and Fog)
program, and similar procedures,

“Consideration will next be given to
the first four groups as above set
forth. The Tribunal is keenly aware
of the danger of incorporating in the
judgment as law its own moral con-
victions or even those of the Anglo-
American legal word. This we will
not do. We may! and do condemn the
Draconic laws and express abhorence
at the limitations imposed by the
Nazi regime upon freedom of speech
and action, but the question still re-
mains unanswered: ‘Do those Draco-
nic laws or the decisions rendered
under them constitute war crimes or
crimes against humanity?”

IHE COURT then rejected the first

four categories of crimes as not
within the purview of international
law. It is revealing on this issue of
impartiality in fact to present two
further questations from the court's
opinion used by it in rejecting the
fourth category of crimes, as above
set out, as not being within its pur-
view.

“Questions of far greater difficulty
are involved when we consider the
cases involving punishment for under-
mining military morale. The limita-
tions on freedom of speech which
were imposed in the enforcement of
these laws are revolting to our sense
of justice. A court would have no
hesitation in condemning them under

INFORMATION BULLETIN

any free constitution, including that
of the Weimar Republic, if the limi-
tations were applied in time of peace;
but even under the protection of the
Constitution of the United States a
citizen is not wholly free to attack the
government or to interfere with its
military aims in time of war.

“In the face of a real and present
danger, freedom of speech may be
somewhat restricted even in America.
Can we then, say that in the throes of
total war and in the presence of im-
pending disaster these officials who
enforced these savage laws in a last
desperate effort to stave off defeat
were guilty of crimes against huma-
nity?"

We quote also the court's conclud-
ing reason for denying to itself juris-
diction on cases of the fourth cat-
egory.

“In view of our clear duty to move
with caution in the recently charted
field of international affairs, we con-
clude that the domestic laws and
judgments in Germany which limited
free speech in the emergency of war
cannot be condemned as crimes
against humanity merely by invoking
the doctrine of aggressive war. All of
the laws to which we have referred
could be and were applied in a dis-
criminatory manner and in the case
of many, the Ministry of Justice and
the. courts enforced them by arbitrary
and brutal means, shocking to the
conscience of mankind and punishable
here. We merely hold that under the
particular facts of this case we can-
not convict any defendant merely
because of the fact, without more,
that laws of the first four types were
passed or enforced."

CONCLUDE this refutation of the

specious, vicious argument now
being purposely and promiscuously
circulated in Germany that, “the poor
unfortunate Nazis being tried at
Nuremberg (men who, themselves,
murdered millions, without a sem-
blance of moral right let alone im-
partial judicial process) are being per-
secuted by the victors" by the record
of sentences themselves.

“Fifteen defendants occupied the
dock, Nine were convicted. None was

12

ordered to forfeit his life. Four were
ordered imprisoned for life — Schlegel-
berger, Klemm, Rothan and Oeschey.
Six received terms of imprisonment —
Rothenberger, Lautz, Mettgenberg,
Von Ammon, Joel and Altstoetter —
each received credit for the time he
was detained pending trial. One, En-
gert, was granted a mistrial because
of ill health and is now not in a
jail. (At the time it was granted, it
can be said without contradiction
that his guilt had been established by
German documents and the testimony
of a German Catholic priest and Ger-
man laymen.) Four were acquitted,
Bornickel, a senior prosecutor at the
People’s Court, Nebulung and Peter-
sen, judges of the People’s Court, and
Cuhorst, Special Court judge at Stutt-
gart.

The judgment was attacked for its
leniency by more Germans than Amer-
icans, Furthermore, at no time did
the prosecutors present to the court a
demand for any degree of punish-
ment. And, at no time since the judg-
ment, has the prosecution criticized
the sentences given by the court.

The charge of impartial application
of international law, Coercion of wit-
nesses to obtain convictions, handicap-
ped defense and of persecution, of
poor, lamb-like, pure of heart, gentle
Nazis, by ruthless American victors,
through the medium of vindictive pro-
secutors and brutal, biased, blood-
thirsty judges is a lie which does not
and cannot withstand the light of ob-
jective thinking.

The continued initiating, spreading,
publishing and supporting of such
charges by persons in America, Ger-
many or elsewhere, renders a disser-
vice not only to the development of
democratic conviction in Germany by
hindering the rejection of the evil
personages, who led the German
people into nazism. It also renders a
disservice to the eventual creation in
the world of an international govern-
ment based upon moral order, includ-
ing an independent international tri-
bunal to try the violators of the
existing body of international law
arising out of that moral order.

(Continued in next issue)

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 16 ---
Continued from Page 2

Currency Reform

western zones had to be turned in or
registered by June 26. All money not
turned in or registered by that date
became worthless.

In order to guarantee a fair utili-
zation of all property, the German
legislative authorities were charged
with working out a law for the
equalization of financial burdens
within six months. A tax reform, too,
was to follow the currency reform
as speedily as possible,

To turn in or register their holdings
of old money, all individuals had to
fill out a schedule “A” form which
they were given at the same time
that they received their per capita
quota. Business enterprises used a
schedule “B” which was obtainable
at the banks,

The old money had to be turned
in or registered by June 26 at the
banks or savings banks as well as
certain auxiliary exchange places
which were set up by the State Cen-
tral Banks, The latter were set up
within governmental offices or busin-
ess enterprises with a large number
of employees in order to facilitate
exchange operations. Old money
could not be turned in at post offices
or postal savings institutions. Of par-
ticular importance was the fact each
individual and each business enter-
Prise might, as a matter of principle,
only turn in or register old money
once.

It was forbidden to import old
money into the western zones or
export it from this area. It was, of
course, permissible to destroy one's
holdings of old money instead of
turning them in,

Violations of this law would be
punishable by jail sentence up to
five years and by fines up to 50,000
Deutsche marks, or both.

For displaced persons living in
camps, regulations paralleling this
law were announced through the
camp governments. DP’s would be
affected by the currency reform just
like the German population. For mem-

JUNE 29, 1948

‘the time being,

bers of the Occupation Forces, sepa-
rate instructions were issued (see
separate item on page 15).

The currency reform would not, for
apply to Berlin
because Berlin is under Four-Power
tule. The three Military Governments
will, however, take all measures in
order to maintain and strengthen

* *

Berlin's economic ties with the West
which are vital to the welfare of the
city. Berlin, too, is to share the
benefits of the European Recovery
Plan, which stands behind the new
currency. Food deliveries into Berlin
will be continued by the western
occupying powers and sold for the
currency there in use.

* *

Stabilization Necessary Now

By Jack Bennett
Finance Adviser, OMGUS
(As broadcast by AFN on June 18)

HE THREE military governors of
the three western zones have this
evening announced laws for the re-
form of the Reichsmark currency now
used by the population of these three
zones.
The Reichsmark, Rentenmark and
Allied Military Mark notes now in

Money Rumor Scotched
One currency reform rumor

was effectively squashed in

Karlsruhe earlier this month.

At an open forum on finan-
cial and economic problems,
John Van Stirum, finance adviser
of OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden,
was asked: “Is it true they have
the new currency on the Munich
black market?“

Van Stirum answered, “When
I was in Munich recently the
rumor was they had the cur-
rency in Stuttgart; in Stuttgart
they say you people have it in
Karlsruhe. In order to find out
about this myseH, I will give
10 CARE packages to anybody
that can produce one of these
bills that seem to be circulating
everywhere. No questions will
be asked.”

There were no takers.

circulation will be replaced by new
money called Deutsche mark, and Ger-
mans holding ration cards will, on
next Sunday and Monday (June 20
and 21) go with their ration cards to
the food registration offices and will
receive for each member of the family
40 new Deutsche marks for each mem-

13

ber of the family upon deposit of
60 old Reichsmarks,

During the first five days of the
coming week Germans in the three
western zones are required to deposit
their remaining Reichsmarks at banks
and to fill out a declaration form show-
ing the total of their money and bank
accounts. At a later date the terms
upon which these bank accounts and
money deposits will be converted into
new money will be announced.

We have deliberately withheld
publication of the law covering the
subsequent stages of the currency
reform until after the declarations
have been filed to avoid undesirable
manipulation and speculation during
the interim period,

The new Deutsche marks which are
to be used in this operation were
printed and transported to Germany
several months ago so that they
would be available for quick use in
the event of quadripartite agreement
in a currency reform involving the
four zones of occupation. Unfor-
tunately, such agreement could not be
reached despite many months of
sincere and tedious effort on our part.
It has proved impossible to postpone
the currency reform in the western
zones.

In fact, one of the primary conditions
of the Economic Recovery Program for
Europe is that the receiving countries
must stabilize their currencies. More-
over, it has been amply demonstrated
that aside from ERP aid a stabilization
of the currency of the western zones
is essential to any expected boost in
the production of the area.

Now that Germany is to have a

INFORMATION. BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
stable currency and has the support of
the Marshall Plan, there is no reason
why we should not see immediately a
stimulation of productive activity.

As is the case in any country with
an inflated currency, too much man-
power and effort have been wasted in
Germany. There has not been the in-
centive upon the worker to work hard
in order to gain more money. Too
much production has gone into non-
essential types of goods which were
not subject to rationing and price con-
trol and which, therefore, offered to
the producer the prospect of selling at
fantastic Reichsmark prices.

Now the German worker can expect
to receive his wages in a stable cur-
rency and the German manufacturer
can expect to receive for his goods a

* *

money that will enable him to buy
the raw materials which he needs to
make more goods.

The currency reform law does not
apply to occupation personnel. They
are requested to await the instructions
of their commanding officer for infor-
mation about the details of the con-
version of any marks which they
purchased for dollars.

I know that you all join with me in
the hope and belief that the steps
which the three military governors
have now taken will mark the definite
and decisive turning point for the Ger-
man economy and that we can look
forward to a period of intense and
energetic activity by the Germans in
a common effort to put their country
on a self-supporting basis.

* *

Reform Fosters Recovery
By Sir Cecil Weir

President, Economic Subcommission, CCG(BE)
(Adapted from Radio Broadcast)

REFORM of the western German
currency is a very important
event in the postwar history of Ger-
many. It will affect the lives and
futures of all in the western zones.
Nobody would suggest that the Ger-
man economy is a sound one at the
present moment. Indeed, it is a very
sick one, and that is the reason why
the British, American and French occu-
pation authorities have decided to put
through this measure without further
delay. The German economy is suffer-
ing from a dangerous stagnation.

Because the existing currency has
become inflated and has lost the con-
fidence of the people, industry and
trade are not working properly. Goods
are not being produced in sufficient
quantities and are not being put into
circulation as they should be. And
this in its turn means that the cur-
rency is becoming still weaker. So
there is a sort of vicious circle.

We are seeking to break this vicious
circle by introducing a completely new
currency, which will have a much
higher value then the old, and which
will retain this value and so serve as
a real and effective means of payment.
The Germans had experience of in-
flation after the first world war and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

they know well how important it is
that the currency should be sound
and stable.

ITHOUT a currency reform the
German economy could not re-
cover. With it, there is a great chance
for western Germany at least to put
itself on its feet again, The financial
reform will be backed by far-reaching
economic and administrative measures,
including much needed reforms in the
field of taxation, and it will be sup-
ported by the powerful influence of
the European Recovery Program, which
has come into operation this year and
which offers to those zones of Ger-
man, which have been allowed to
participate in it, a marvelous oppor-
tunity of speedy economic recovery.
The British, American and French
occupation authorities had introduced
this measure because they are taking
responsibility for it. They have had to
do so because it is a trizonal operation
and there is as yet no German author-
ity which could undertake it. We
should have prefered to see it done
by the Germans themselves but it was
not possible. On the other hand we
have from the first consulted German
experts and we have taken their ad-
vice as far as we possibly could. We

14

have not taken it on all points because
we who shoulder the responsibility
must make the final decisions, but we
have striven honestly to meet the Ger-
man point of view to the limit.

HERE is another and even more

important respect in which we
should have liked to see the operation
done differently. We should have liked
to participate in a currency reform for
the whole of Germany. Unfortunately
this too was not possible. Long and
weary arguments in the Allied Con-
trol Council and its committees pro-
duced no agreement, and no agreement
is in prospect today. The time has
come when we can wait no longer.

I do not wish to go over the ground
of those disagreements but there is
one aspect of the matter which I
should like to stress. It was agreed at
Potsdam that Germany should be treat-
ed as an economic whole. That is a
principle which we have faithfully
endeavored to uphold. Unfortunately
others have refused to observe this
principle.

From the early days of the occupa-
tion, the eastern zone has been treat-
ed as a separate economic unit. Free
access and free economic exchanges
between the eastern zone and the rest
of Germany have been prevented. The
early refusal to pool all food produc-
tion frustrated our hopes of establish-
ing German economic unity promptly.
Failure to deal with imports and ex-
ports on a unified basis destroyed
further hopes and indeed was the main
obstacle to agreement on the whole
German problem at the highest level.

The introduction of a separate cur-
tency in the western zones does not
divide Germany economically because
it is divided already. I will go even
further and say that the maintenance
of a uniform financial policy would be
extremely difficult, if not impossibte,
without uniformity of economic policy

HE INTRODUCTION of’ these

measures of currency reform in
the western zones does not render the
achievement of economic unity for the
whole of Germany any more difficult
than it is already. We shall do our
utmost to recreate both financial unity
and economic unity. There is no
reason why the present split should
endure, and indeed it must not do so.

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
We stand ready at any time to reach
agreement over this whole field.

While I am on this subject, a word
about the position of Berlin. The te-
form will not, for the time being, be
extended to the western sectors of
Berlin. This is because we recognize
the common obligation to treat Berlin
as a city under the joint control of all
four occupation powers. We appreciate
the special circumstances of quadri-
partite government in Berlin and have
no wish to disturb it unless this be-
comes unavoidable.

Furthermore, we wish to avoid creat-
ing economic difficulties and hardships
for the people of Berlin through the
existence of two non-interchangeable
currencies in one city. But we shall
see to it that Berlin's vital economic
ties with the West are maintained and
strengthened. We shall, for instance,
see to it that Berlin does not miss the
benefits which will spring from the
European Recovery Program.

Finally, a word about what this new
measures means for the individual
German. I said at the beginning that the
German economy is stagnating as a re-
sult of a kind of inflation. To get over
this, we have to reduce the volume
of money in circulation, bring it nearer
to the available volume of goods, and
so stimulate production and trade. This
will mean that when the Germans have
turned in their old money and ex-
changed it for new, they will have
less money in terms of marks and
pfennigs than before. But they know
from their own experience that the
real value of money is determined by
the goods it can buy.

SOUND CURRENCY will bring

out commodities from their hid-
ing places, and we expect that the
goods available for purchase will soon
increases. But there will be many
temporary inconveniences, and some
people will lose a great deal of
money—on paper, at least. There may
also be some unemployment for a
time. This is because the present un-
healthy state of the German economy
encourages under-employment and
this is masking a good deal of un-
employment.

I believe that this transitional un-
employment will before long be fol-
lowed by greatly improved chances
and conditions of employment. When

JUNE 29, 1948

things have settled down there will be
more, more productive, and, we hope,
better paid jobs to be had. Anyone
who looks at conditions in Germany
must recognize that, for years to come,
there is work—useful work—waiting
to be done by willing hands keen to
help in the reconstruction of their
country and ready to do what is re-
quired of them.

At the same time the currency re-
form laws have been very carefully
devised to spread the burden of diffi-
culty and sacrifice as fairly as poss-
ible. I cannot yet tell how this will
work, because it must be kept a se-
cret for a little longer, but I can assure
all that the reform will head to a far
more socially just economic order
than the present one. Great care has
been taken to protect the man of
small means. Those who are depend-
ent for their livelihood on the wages
which they earn week by week will
find their position greatly improved.

On the other hand there has been a
section of the community which has
held large sums in the banks much
of which represented excessive profits
accumulated during the war. For such
people we have had no sympathy.

I am convinced that when the Ger-
mans learn the full details of this
operation they will agree that it
offers western Germany a great chance
of establishing a more prosperous and
a socially fairer economic life. If the
German people take this opportunity,
by putting in their efforts where they
will be most productive and by eli-
minating the evil practices of hoard-
ing and black marketeering and irreg-
ular trading which are choking the
German economy now, then we shall
have made a great step forward on
the road to recovery and the door to
happiness will be opened once again
for all Germans.

* * *
EUCOM Instructions

EUCOM headquarters made public
June 18 the text of a communication
to major commands pertaining to the
conversion of Reichsmarks to the new
German marks. It was as follows:

Sunday, 20 June, is mark conversion
day. Subsequent to close of business
19 June, finance officers will cease

15

all transactions in Reichsmarks or
Allied marks except as directed herein
or by Finance Division, EUCOM. New
Deutsche marks will probably be
available at local branches, State Cen-
tral Bank, three or four days later.
Detailed technical instructions are be-
ing furnished each accountable finance
officer by Finance Division, EUCOM.

When the new marks become avail-
able at the local finance office author-
ized individuals, nonappropriated
fund custodians and US Army-licensed
commercial concerns may submit to
the finance officer, old marks on hand
for new marks on following basis and
documentation.

Basis: One new Deutsche mark for
one Reichsmark or Allied mark not
to exceed one month's purchase for
dollars on an average of preceding
three months’ dollar purchase.

Documentation: Application of in-
dividual, fund or firm in writing in
triplicate, certified by applicant, that
marks presented were purchased from
US Finance Office for dollars, that
they represent not to exceed one
month's purchase based on average of
preceding three months’ purchases,
and that this application is the first
and only application which will be
submitted.

Finance officer will certify thereon
that the applicant has presented ade-_
quate written documentary evidence
attesting to the purchase of the marks
for dollars from a US Finance Office,
or that the record of his office indicate
such purchases, and that the amount
exchanged does not exceed one
months’ purchase based on average of
preceding three months.

Authorized individuals only may
purchase during the 30-day period
following conversion day, or follow-
ing documentation, not to exceed 45
new Deutsche marks for ten cents
each in MPC’'s. One sale only per
individual not exceeding $4.50. Each
sale will be recorded by the finance
officer by placing his office stamp on
the July EES card of the individual.

Documentation: Application for pur-
chase will be submitted to the finance
officer in triplicate for each sale, cer-
tified by the applicant that this is
his single purchase at the special rate
during the authorized 30-day period.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Avenue of Flags at Entrance to Fair Grounds,

ie

GERAT

Eletro-medical apparatus from Scillo Works
of Hamburg

SC,
eer ly
Se
“THERAPIE

Tractors

HANOVER FAIR

HE SUCCESS of the second Export
Trade Fair at Hanover was
measured by the signing of 1,416
contracts for an aggregate of
$15,146,722 worth of German products
ordered by representatives of foreign
countries during its 16-day showing.
This compared with the 1,934 con-
tracts worth $31,580,974 signed during
the 22-day fair in 1947.
The Hanover Fair, which opened
May 22 and continued through June 5,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

was the showcase of manufactured
goods and handicraft work of the
Bizonal Area, suitable and mostly
available for export, Although more
than 6,000 firms applied, only 2,056
were accepted by the German spon-
soring authorities (Verwaltungsamt
fuer Wirtschaft) due to the limited
exhibition space,

Of nearly 400,000 official visitors,
16,295 were buyers and representati-
ves from foreign countries. Sweden

16

from Hanomag - Hannover
Tractor Company of Hanover in He

Trailer from Faka

was the biggest buying country with
contracts valued at $3,600,000, more
than 50 percent higher than its 1947
total. Other leading buyers were
Belgium with $2,900,000; Great Britain
with $2,300,000; the United States
with $780,000; the Netherlands with
$737,500, and Switzerland with
$720,000.

Contracts were also signed for Iran,
Argentina, Denmark, India, Luxem-
bourg, Finland, Iceland, Iraq, Greece,
France, Britsh East Africa, Brazil,
Austria, Czechoslavakia, South Africa,
Pakistan, Canada, Italy, Egypt, Aus-

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 20 ---
| Salzgitter

tralia, Syria, Hungary, Palestine,
Norway, Ceylon, Portugal and
Venezuela.

The textile industry led all export
contracts with a total of $5,273,601,
slightly less than the 1947 total. The
motor industry was second with
$3,627,597, approximately a third of
1947. Other leading orders aggre-
gated: electrical industry, $1,179,706;
iron and steel goods, $899,709; glass
and ceramic industries, $895,276.

In pointing out that the fair was
only to show goods for export, Lt.
Gen. Sir Gordon Macready, UK co-

JUNE 29, 1948

House of Steel from MAN in Augsburg and Nuremberg

Two-stroke gasoline engines from JLO Works
near Hamburg

ood |

Fashionable dress exhibits

chairman of the Bipartite Control
Office, said, “The reason for this is
that without a very substantial export
trade, Germany, without assistance,
cannot import even her most urgent
requirements, and still less reach the
average European standard of living.”

To facilitate the completion of the
contracts on the grounds, a large
central building was constructed to
house the offices of the Bizonal Eco-
nomics Administraiotn, representatives
of the state economics ministries, the
Joint Export Import Agency and
foreign trade missions,

17 INFORMATION BULLETIN’

--- Page 21 ---
LAENDERRAT’S FUNCTIONS GIVEN BIZONE

Military Governor Praises Zone Council for its Work during Past
Two Years and its Effort to Represent Interests of German People

Functions of the US Zone'’s Council
of States (Laenderrat) will be con-
tinued on a more extensive basis at
the regular monthly meetings of the
ministers president of the Bizonal
Area, General Lucius D, Clay, US
Military Governor, said at his final
appearance before the state officials
in Stuttgart on June 1. The text of
his adress follows:

HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE to attend
the Laenderrat meetings for some
time because of the conference which
has been underway in London almost
continually since last February. That
seems like a long time but the pro-
blems which have been before the
conference have been many and
difficult. I hoped I would be able to
come here today and tell you some
results. That I cannot do because the
conference has not yet finally ended.
I can say that the progress has been
steady and it looks now as if within
a comparatively few days it will come
forth with its recommendations and
reports (See page 21). I think we can
say that, if those reports are accepted
by the governments, they will provide
a basis for peace in Europe.
I am very glad that at this meeting
I can say to you. that the food
situation in Germany is better at this
time than ever before. The ration is
to be increased on June 1 to 1,645
calories. While, due to the difficulties
of distribution, it may not be met in
the early days, it will not be because
the food is not available. In April
589,000 tons of food were imported
into Germany, the most in a single
month since we first started the im-
portation of food. It is estimated that
the imports in the next three months
will average 500,000 per month. That,
with the promise of a good harvest in
Germany, makes the food situation
look bright for the first time.
I wish I could paint as bright a
picture of the meat situation. While
we have been able to get some ton-

“INFORMATION BULLETIN

nage, it is going to be very difficult
to restore the meat ration in the near
future. However, we have been
assured of a substantial supply of
fodder grains and protein food for
animals. This should enable the
rebuilding of the German meat supply
immediately and continuously.

INALLY, WITH RESPECT to my

visit here today, I have the feel-
ing of both regret and pleasure. The
regret comes from this being my last
meeting with the Laenderrat in Stutt-
gart. The British military governor,
General Robertson, and I have agreed
to meet the ministers president of
both zones in Frankfurt monthly.
Obviously, much of the work now
under way in the Laenderrat will
either have to be completed or trans-
ferred so it can be handled on the
new basis, My regret comes from my
very keen realization of the fine role
the Laenderrat and its advisory board
have played in the American Zone of
Germany. Particularly in my meetings
with the Laenderrat there has been
an informality that has led to an
exchange of our views more freely
than would have been possible in a
larger gathering.

In the more than two years the
Laenderrat has been in existence I
have found it always striving to re-
present the interests of the German
people. I have found the Laenderrat
always trying to accomplish its re-
sults through democratic processes
which they believe in and which we
believe in. I have found the ministers
president zealous of the rights of the
States which they represent, but, I
think, always willing to compromise
these rights in the interests of the
common good. It is for that reason
that at the same time I regret being
here for the last time. I am glad that
the Laenderrat is moving to a broader
field,

In meeting with the ministers pre-
sident from the British Zone, the

18

combined ministers president will
represent a German population of
more than 40,000,000 persons. Cer-
tainly, events are moving forward to
a greater responsibility for the Ger-
man people in the exercise of their
own government. In moving forward
into that field, it seems to me there
is nothing that could promise more
for the future than carrying into it
the spirit of the Laenderrat.

I am sure the gains which you
have made here will be reflected in
many more gains for a much larger
number of your people. I could wish
nothing better than that the spirit of
the Laenderrat be carried into what-
ever future German government does
develop. Mr. Chairmen, members of
the Laenderrat, it appears to me that
is your challenge.

WOULD BE REMISS if, before

closing, I did not state at this time
what I have never had an opportunity
to state before, and that is the very
real approciation of American Mili-
tary Government for the work done
by Dr. Dietrich (Dr. Hermann Dietrich,
bizonal food and agriculture minister)
in reorganizing an agricultural ad-
ministration at a time when certainly
food was the most difficult problem
facing the German people. He served
the German people well.

In closing, I have only to repeat
myself in saying this: The Laenderrat
has been an institution of democracy.
It has the opportunity to extend the
spirit which it has developed into any
future German government that may
be created. If it succeeds it will have
made not only a major contribution
to peace, but also will expedite the
return of the German people to the
commonwealth of nations. I doubt if
so few men ever had a greater
opportunity to be of service to their
country and their people. I envy
them and congratulate them on this
opportunity.

| JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

Centennial Revives Spiritual Aims

(— Frankfurter Neue Presse sup-
spa the view expressed by
speakers at the celebrations in Frank-
furt, Commemorating the centennial
of the Revolution of 1848, that only
revived spiritual forces can save Ger-
many and the world:

“This feeling was evident in appeals
that spiritual resurrection be given
preference over economic considera-
tions; that the occupation powers
permit the free interchange of intel-
lectuals and of cultural publications
over zonal borders...

“Only through spiritual uplift can
a new era come into being, a new
humanitarianism ... If we do not
understand such appeals and if the
freedom from fear and distress pro-
mised in the Atlantic Charter does
not become reality, the crisis of the
Occident will lead to destruction.”

The Neue Presse (Coburg) used the
occasion of the celebrations to point
out that German unity is just as far
from realization today as it was in
1848. It said:

“The Economic Council is only a
caricature of a democratic parliament.
It is not the result of free elections...
Its members have no mandate from
the people, but are merely there to
carry out the orders of two occupa-
tion powers to organize a western
German state ... The question of
German unity is dependent upon an
understanding between America and
Russia...

“Other nations and the present hold-
ers of power must be warned that
it is a dangerous game to split
66,000,000 people... As for Germans,
they should know that the only
‘unified Germany which could hold a
dignified place among the nations
would be a democratic and pacifistic
Germany.”

The Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) said only a selfresponsible Ger-
Many can overcome the crisis and
guarantee a healthy democracy:

JUNE 29, 1948

“Before establishing a western Ger-
man government, an earnest effort
must be made to include the East...
Only after the Soviet occupation and
its licensed parties definitely refuse
to allow elections for a constituti.nal
convention will it be justifiable and
necessary to create a western German
government...

“We do not overestimate the
chance of such an appeal to the East,
but such a call would have more than
merely academic or historic value. I!
is our duty to show 15,000,000 people
that we do not intend to foresake
them, even if their own parties do...
All measures to strengthen demo-
cracy in western Europe require the
free will and consent of those affected.
This means Germany, too.”

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth)
speculated on the reasons which led
Soviet Foreign Secretary Molotov to
commit what it calls a deliberate in-
discretion:

“It seems clear that it was not his
intention to disrupt the proceedings,
because no one can doubt that Russia
would like to take up discussions
again. If Molotov deliberately took
such a risk, he must have had another,
very important reason...

“We believe that the real purpose
was to impress the Soviet population
with its government's readiness to ne-
gotiate ... The incident seems to prove

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board of the Informa-
tion Control Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
inform the readers among the
occupational forces of what the
Germans are writing and think-
ing, and not necessarily to give
any concurrence to their views
and opinions.

19

that the Soviet people fear war, that
they strenuously desire peace and that
despite the powerful apparatus of
dictatorship, the Russian government
must reckon with this sentiment.

“The fact is important, and if prop-
erly evaluated by the other side, can
lead to future negotiations taking such
form that the first steps toward a
slackening of the present tension, so
greatly desired by all nations, will
result.”

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) sug-
gested that Washington formulate de-
finite proposals which would force the
Soviets to prove their will to peace
by deeds rather than words:

“The intention of the (Soviet) man-
euver is to show the US population
that its government is incapable or
unwilling to settle the East-West
‘conflict by negotiation, and that
Henry Wallace is the American who
has the proper equipment for the
job... It looks as though the Soviet
Union wishes to directly influence
the presidential election...

“Russia... has chosen an extra-
ordinarily propitious psychological
moment to damage American prestige
in world public opinion, because the
yearning for peace is so great in all
nations that an abrupt rejection of any
chance for peace, however vague, is
bound to be unpopular.”

Anti-Semitism Assailed

The Isar Post (Landshut) published
extracts from an article by Dr. Auer-
bach, Bavarian minister for racial, re-
ligious and political persecutees:

“Kaiser Friedrich III characterized
anti-semitism as the shame of the
century. Almost 100 years have passed
but this shame still exists... Jewish
tombstones are being destroyed and
Jewish cemeteries desecrated...

“We want no generalizations con-
cerning ourselves or others; we there-
fore reject collective guilt; but we
demand that decent Germans once
for all break with Nazi criminals and
penalize those whose hands are stain-
ed with the blood of our brothers and
sisters."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Substitute for Leipzig

Several licensed papers in the US
Zone pointed out in connection with
the Hanover Fair that the question
of whether Germany will ever again
reach a decent living standard is
entirely dependent on the develop-
ment of its export trade. Other papers
seemed to regard Hanover as a nec-
essary substitute for Leipzig. The
Magdeburger Presse (Soviet Zone) said:

“Two Hanover Export Fairs teach
that experience acquired over a period
of centuries cannot be gained in two
years. The German export fair city
is not Frankfurt, Cologne or Hanover,
but Leipzig. However, Leipzig lies in
the East Zone, a territory which offers
no hope or opportunity for use as a
base for West German export opera-

tions. This is what gives the Hanover
Fair its right to existence. The fair
has at least shown that it fulfills its
purpose as well as can be expected
from a beginner.”

Seek to Hide Blame

The Darmstaedter Echo expressed
the general attitude on the latest SED
maneuver of petition-signing as a
people's referendum, when the Hessian
newspaper said:

“To ask a German if he wants a
unified Germany is like asking him
if he wants to breathe or live. The
referendum sponsors don't seek to
know if the German people want
unity. They merely wish falsely to
burden others with the blame for
present disunity. They want to use

Germans Fear Possibility of Division

JHE Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-

berbischofsheim) said a unified
Europe without Germany is impos-
sible, and Germany has reached a
point where its population has lost
all hope and confidence in the future.
It asserted:

“The Germany of the little men no
longer believes that matters will im-
prove. German desperation and
mistrust are much more real than fine
talk. The paramount task of the hour
is to overcome this desperation. Ger-
many today is only an idea...
Senseless frontiers prevent sons from
reaching dying fathers, or relatives
from visiting their loved ones ...

“Men and women who collapse
from exhaustion at their work do not
stop to ask who is responsible for
their starving ... Europe cannot live
without Germany. If Europe is to
become a reality, Germany must be
permitted to live ... and hope cannot
be restored with words alone.”

The Wetzlarer Neue Zeitung used
the occasion of the anniversary of
the 1948 Revolution and Whitsuntide
to call for international rather than
national thinking:

“The good European of today will
be more highly regarded by history
than the good German, Frenchman,
Englishman or Dutchman... It is our
duty to manifest the will, amidst a
world in ruin and in great spiritual

INFORMATION BULLETIN

affliction, to build a future existence
above national interests.”

The Kasseler Zeitung was optimistic
about the near future:

“Those who believe that the uni-
fication of the western states signifies
a final cleavage with eastern Europe
will be as disappointed as those who
regarded war between the United
States and Russia as inevitable ...
The economic structure of the western
Eropean states differs totally from
that of the eastern states, and for
that very reason a ‘mixed marriage’
between them should be a peaceful
one.”

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung decried
the tendency of present-day German
politicians, as shown in the election
campaigns, to discuss generalities on
which everyone agrees, to. the neglect
of urgent local, practical measures for
telief. It said:

“After two years of groping and
searching ... we should have a
clearcut picture of what every party
stands for, so that the voters can
make a choice ... We note daily that
ideological differences and party doc-
trines are emphasized instead of
general cooperation... Ata time when
it is a question of saving the people
from starvation, misery, death and
destruction, all must stand together
and relegate secondary considerations
to the background.”

20

national sentiment to spread Com-
munist influence over all Germany,”

Sectionalism Exaggerated

As many German papers deprecate
talk of reviving sectionalism, the
Weser Kurier (Bremen) said that there
is much exaggeration on this subject:

“The great majority of Germans,
even in Bavaria, realize that Germans
belong together and have a common
fate and that this requires a cor-
responding political structure, without
which it will be impossible to build
the constitutionally unified Europe of
the future.”

Plan Belies Rumors

The Weser Kurier (Bremen) objected
to malicious rumors circulated about
American help for Germany, such as
talk about German coal export being
much more valuable than American
food deliveries:

“The Marshall Plan idea, whether
regarded as practical politics or
humanitarianism, can only succeed if
the recipients react sensibly and log-
ically. The fact is that the Marshall
Plan gives 17 European countries the
chance to build up a decent exist-
ence.”

Protection of Press

The Heilbronner Stimme said a dem-
onstration of the democratic back-
wardness in present-day Germany is
the fact that Military Government
must continually intervene to protect
the right of the German press to
gather information, and added:

“The German press is compelled to
fight for the confidence of a popula-
tion which was lied to and disappoint-,
ed for years, and which in consequence
become pathologically distrustful ...
But more important than this dis-
harmony with public opinion is the
open and hidden resistance to the
freedom of the new press by the,
‘higher-ups’... ;

“Without MG support the press,
would long ago have been suffocated,
by bureaucratic means ... The press
must win this fight against German,
officialdom and party bureaus if Ger-
many is to recover and become 4
nation of free and civic-minded cit-,
izenz.”"

‘ JUNE 29, _

--- Page 24 ---
MEANING OF SIX-POWER AGREEMENT

HE LONDON AGREEMENT on

western Germany is the logical
sequel to the failure of the Council of
Foreign Ministers in London last
autumn to reach an accord on the
unity of Germany.

While officially recognizing the
political schism of Germany between
East and West which, in fact, has
existed ever since the end of World
War II, the Western Powers have
taken steps to unify the areas of Ger-
many lying under their control. The
eastern section can come back into
the fold at any time its occupying
power permits unification.

The London talks ended in a sub-
stantial agreement which, by provid-
ing for the establishment of a con-
stitutional assembly and for the inter-
national control of the Ruhr, has taken
a long stride toward the eventual
political and economic unification of
western Germany.

It was not an easy task to produce
this agreement among the six powers
—United States, Great Britain, France,
and the three so-called Benelux
countries of the Netherlands, Belgium
and Luxemburg. The talks began on
April 20 and it was not until June 1
that the accord could be signed.

JHE LONDON AGREEMENT re-

presents, substantially, a compro-
mise between the views of the French
and those of the Anglo-Saxon count-
ties, The French, naturally enough, in
view of the repeated invasions of
their country in the past 150 years are
haunted by the problem of security,
and to their inherent dread of their
German neighbors has now been added
the menace of Soviet Russia.

The three main issues which were
debated at London were: (1) how the
delegates to the constituent assembly
should be elected, (2) the powers to
be conferred on the International
Authority to be set up to govern the
Ruhr, and (3) the question of security.

The French fear of a revival of a
strongly centralized German state ex-
Pressed itself in opposition to the pro-
posal put forth by the American and
British that the delegates to the con-

JUNE 29, 1948

By John Elliot
Adviser to Director
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS

stituent assembly should be elected
by the people as the natural demo-
cratic process. The French, on the other
hand, sought to enhance the authority
of the states by having the delegates
nominated by the state governments.
The compromise provided that the
states themselves shall decide how
the delegates to the assembly, which
is to meet about Sept.1, shall be
chosen.

'URTERMORE, the London Agree-

ment stresses the federal character
of a constitution for western Germany.
It expressly stipulates that the con-
stituent assembly shall frame a Ger-
man constitution “such as to enable
the Germans to play their part in
bringing to an end the present division
of Germany, not by the reconstitution
of a centralized Reich, but by means
of a federal form of government which
adequately protects the rights of the
respective states.”

In this respect, the government of
western Germany will differ funda-
mentally from the form of government
which the Soviet-dominated Socialist
Unity Party is demanding. The Ger-
man Communists are calling for a
strongly centralized German govern-
ment modeled along the lines of the
Weimar Republic, which would simp-
lify the task of any future Communist
cabinet in Berlin, in extending its
dictatorial rule over the entire nation.

The agreement regarding the future
governance of the Ruhr shows that
the French have retreated consider-
ably from their original demand that
this vitally important industrial area
should be politically and territorially
detached from the Reich. But they
flatly refused to yield on the matter
of the powers to be conferred on the
international authority for the Ruhr.
The Americans desired that internation-
al control of the Ruhr products should
be advisory and that the final word
regarding the disposition of the coal
and steel supplies of the area should

21

be left to the military governors who
would encourage German industrial
recovery as rapidly as possible. In
this move the French saw a threat to
the supplies of Ruhr coal and coke
which they greatly need for their own
steel industry.

Georges Bidault, the French Foreign
Minister, won out on this issue, and
the Americans conceded that allo-
cations should be fixed by the propos-
ed International Ruhr Authority, on
which the United States, Britain,
France and Germany are to have
three votes each, and the Benelux
countries one apiece. Even so, French
opinion is not satisfied with this ar-
rangement, by which, they contend,
they and their supporters can be voted
down by the Anglo-Saxon powers.

Te PROVISIONS of the London
Agreement also went far to meet
French demands for security. The
American delegation did not feel that
it could offer the French a military
alliance. But perhaps the most strik-
ing passage of the communique is the
affirmation of the principle that there
can be no withdrawal of American,
British and French forces from Ger-
many “until the peace of Europe is
secured,” nor will withdrawal take
place “without prior consultation.”
Furthermore, there will be con-
sultation among the six powers “if
any of them should consider there is
danger of a resurgence of German
military power or the adoption by
Germany of a policy of aggression.”

Like all true compromises, the Lon-
don Agreement pleases nobody. The
Germans grumble because they were
not consulted; the French feel that it
jeopardizes the future security of their
country; and the Americans and Bri-
tish are dissatisfied because their con-
trol of the resources of the Ruhr is
circumscribed.

But the principal achievement of the
London Conference consists in having
made a definite stride towards the
unification of Germany and, therefore,
towaids the stabilization of world
peace of which German unity is a sine
qua non. True, it does not provide for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
the immediate political merger of the
three zones.

But the recommendations do provide
that the French will enter the Joint
Export-Import Agency as soon as pos-
sible, and insure the joint control of
external trade, and complete fusion is
likely to come about concurrently
with the establishment of a German
Government.

Through the haze of current events
and incidents, one event can clearly
be discerned in the distance. Germany
will ultimately be reunited, either on
the basis of western democracy or
upon the totalitarian principles of the
Kremlin. In the struggle to decide
under which banner the Germany of
the future is to be moulded, Frankfurt-
am-Main can offer two things that the
Communist-dominated East cannot
match. It can provide the material ad-
vantages that will accrue through im-
plementation of the Marshall Plan.
And much more important, it can de-
monstrate the truth of Daniel Web-
ster's famous saying that Liberty and
Union are one and inseparable.

Official Announcement

N ACCORDANCE with the announce-

ment issued at the conclusion of
the informal discussions on Germany
by the representatives of the United
States, United Kingdom, France and
the Benelux countries, a report con-
taining agreed recomendations on all
items discussed was submitted to their
respective governments. These rec-
ommendations have been submitted
as a whole since their main provisions
are mutually dependent and form an
indivisible program. The principal
features of this report are the
following:

I. Association of the Benelux countries “in
the policy regarding Germany.

The recommendations include specific pro-
visions for a close association between the
Military Governors and the Benelux represen-
tatives in Germany on matters affecting
Benelux interests. Moreover, full opportunities
will be given the Benelux representatives to
be kept informed of developments in the
western zones.

II, The role of the German economy in the
European economy and control of the Ruhr.

(a) It had been agreed that for the political
and economic well being of the countries of
western Europe and of a democratic Germany,
there must be a close association of their
economic life. This close association, which
wili enable Germany to contribute to and
participate in European recevery, has been

ensured by the inclusion on April 16 of the
Combined Zone and the French Zone in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

organization fiir European economic cooper-
ation as full members.

(b) It was agreed to recommend the estab-
lishment of an international authority for the
control of the Ruhr in which the United
States, United Kingdom, France, Benelux
countries and Germany would _ participate,
and which does not involve the political
separation of the Ruhr area from Germany.
It does, however, contemplate control of the
distribution of coal, coke and steel of the
Ruhr in order that on the one hand industrial
concentration in that area shall not become
an instrument of aggression, and on the other
-will be able to make its contribution to all
countries participating in a European coope-
tative economic program, including of course
Germany itself.

An agreement containing the provisions for
fits establishment is to be concluded by the
United States, United Kingdom and France
as occupying powers. Moreover, the Bene-
lux countries are to be fully associated with
the preperation of the more detailed agree-
ment and are to be consulted as to the time
when the authority begins to exercise its
functions.

(c) Arising out of the discussions on the
Ruhr it has been recommended that the
Principle of non-discrimination, against foreign
interests in Germany be reaffirmed, and that
each government should promptly study the
problem of safeguarding foreign interests in
order that there may be subsequently
established as soon as possible an inter-
governmental group to review the question
and make recommendations to their govern-
ments.

III, Evolution of the Political and the
Economic Organization of Germany.

(a) Further consideration has been given by
all delegations to the problem of the evolu-
tion of the political and economic organization
of Germany. They recognize, taking into
account the present situation, that it is
necessary to give the German people the
opportunity to achieve, on the basis of a free
and democratic form’ of government, the
eventual reestablishment of German unity, at
present disrupted.

In these circumstandes they have reached

the conclusion that the German people in the
different states should now be free to estab-
lish for themselves the political organization
and institutions which will enable them to
assume those governmental responsibilities
which are compatible with the minimum
requirements of occupation and control and
which ultimately will enable them to assume
full, governmental responsibilities.
__The delegations consider that the people
in the states will wish to establish a con-
stitution with provisions which will allow all
the German states to subcribe as soon as
circumstances permit.

The delegations have therefore aqreed to
recommend to their governments that the
military governors should hold a joint meeting
with the ministers-president of the western
zones in Germany. At that meeting the
minister-president will be authorized to con-
vene a constituent assembly in order to
prepare a constitution for the approval of
the participating states,

Delegates to this constituent assembly will
be chosen in each of the states in accordance
with procedure and regulations to be deter-
mined by the legislative bodies of the indi-
vidual states.

This constitution should be such as to
enable the Germans to play their part in
bringing to an end the present division of
Germany not by _ the reconstitution of a
centralized nation (Reich) but by means of a
federal form of government which adequately
protects the rights of the respective states,
and which at the same time provides for
adequate central authority and which gua-
rantees the rights and freedoms of the indi-
vidual.

If the constitution as prepared by the
constituent assembly does not conflict with
these general principles the military gover-
nors will authorize its submission for rati-
fication by the people in the respective states,

At the meeting with the military governors
the ministers-president will also be authorized
to examine the boundaries: of the several
states in order to determine what modifi-

22

cations might be proposed to the military
governors for the purpose of creating a de-
finitive system which is satisfactory to the
peoples concerned.

(b) Further discussions have taken place
among the United States, United Kingdom,
and French delegations on measures for
coordinating economic policies and practices
in the Combined Zone and the French Zone.
Agreed recommendations have been reached
on the joint conduct and control of the ex-
ternal trade of the whole area.

It has been recognized that a complete
economic merger of the two areas cannot
effectively take place until further progress
has been made toward establishing the neces-
sary German institutions common to the entire
area.

IV. Provisional territorial arrangements.

The delegations have agreed to submit ‘or
the consideration of their governments pro-
posals for dealing with certain minor pro-
visional territorial adjustments in connection
with the western frontier of Germany.

V. Security.

This proplem was considered in three aspects:

(a) General provisiors.

(b) Measures during the period ir which the
occupying powers retain supreme authority im
Germany.

(c) Measures after the period in which the
occupying powers retain supreme authority in
Germany.

General provisions,

The United States, United Kingdom and
French delegations reiterated the firm view
of their governments that there could not be
any general withdrawal of their forces from
Germany until the peace of Europe is secured
and without prior consultation. It was further
recommended that the governments concerned
should consult if any of them should consider
that there was a danger of resurgence of
German military power or of the adoption by
Germany of a policy of agression.

Measures during the period in which the
occupying powers retain supreme authority
in Germany.

The prohibitions on the German armed
forces and the German general staff as con-
tained in four-power agreements were reaffir-
med, as well as the exercise of controls
by the military governors with respect to
disarmament and demilitarization, level of
industry and certain aspects of scientific
Tesearch.

To ensure the maintenance of disarmament
and demilitarization in the interests of se-
curity, the three military governors should
set up a military security board in the
western zones of Germany to carry out the
proper inspections and make the necessary
recommendations to the military governors
who decide the action to be taken,

Measures after the period in which the
occupying powers retain supreme authority
in Germany.

It was affirmed that Germany must not
again be permitted to become an aggressive
power and that prior to the general whith-
drawal of the forces of occupation agreement
will be reached among the governments
concerned with respect to necessary meas-
ures oi demiliarization, disarmament and
control of industry and with respect to
occupation of key areas. Also there should
be a system of inspection to ensure the
maintenance of the agreed provisions of
German disarmament and demilitarization.

The present recommendations, which in no
way preclude and on the contrary should
facilitate eventual four-power agreement on
the German problem, are designed to solve
the urgent political and economic problems
arising out of the present situation in Ger-

many. Because of the previous failure to
reach comprehensive four-power decisions
on Germany, the measures recommended

mark a step forward in the policy which
the powers represented at these talks are
determined to follow with respect to the
economic reconstruction of western Europe,
including Germany, and with respect to the
establishment of a basis for the participa-
tion for a democratic Germany in the
community of free peoples.

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 26 ---
Garden spray made from salvaged gasoline can.

Wooden shoes destined for the Netherlands,
(Photos by Waller for Stars and Stripes)

Bad Kissingen’s Handicraft and Trade Exhibition

UNIQE Handicraft and Trade Ex-
hibition recently at Bad Kissingen
was planned as an inspiration for Ger-
man craftsmen to expand their pro-
duction and become more self-suffi-
cient without waiting for foreign aid.
On display were 220 exhibits by
workmen and small companies in the
county of Bad Kissingen. Many ar-
ticles were made from rubble, scrap,
Tags and other obsolete materials.
Intricately-carved cigaret boxes from
old Toddy cans, neat Bavarian dolls
dressed in tailors throw-away scraps,
chessmen made from soldified tree

JUNE 29, 1948

sap, and wooden shoes which will be
sent to Holland, highlighted the show.

“It is not necessary to encourage
our workmen to help themselves by
hard work,’ Max von Wussow, county
official said. “All are energetic. With
a minimum of imported materials, they
are producing valuable items for the
city and for export.”

A large percentage of the skilled
craftsmen exhibiting their wares were
refugees who have taken up residence
in Bad Kissingen and Munnerstadt.
Some moved from Berlin during the

23

wartime bombings of that city, while
others have come from the Soviet
Zone since the war.

The wide variety of products on ex-
hibit included small wagon trailers,
meat grinders, radios, toys, glass tub-
ing, furniture made of painted and
polished fir wood, cold cream, pottery
and beer barrels.

Also displayed prominently were
paintings by Heinrich von Schilgen,
statuettes by Lore Friedrich-Gronau
and housing blueprints by F. A. Breu-
haus, one of Germany's leading
architects—From Stars and Stripes.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Bipartite Agencies

Bipartite groups and offices, which
have been located in several build-

ings in Frankfurt and Hoechst, are
being moved into the former EUCOM
Headquarters building in Frankfurt.
The transfer of JEIA early in July
is to complete the movement.
Contracts recently concluded be-
tween the US/UK authorities and offi-
cial agencies in Switzerland and Den-
mark for the import of 21,500 tons of
potatoes into the Bizonal Area, have
taken up the entire supply of potatoes
available for export in those coun-
tries. Contracts call for the delivery
of 20,000 tons of potatoes from Den-
mark and 1,500 tons from Switzerland.

Bizonal Operations

Tobacco ration cards will be issued
to all women more than 18 years of
age, effective July 1. Previously the
minimum age limit had been 25,

As a result of the improved food
supply position in the United Kingdom,
Great Britain scheduled shipments of
50,000 to 80,000 tons of eating po-
tatoes to the Bizonal Area by the
end of June.

Dr. Otto Schniewind, recently
appointed by the Bizonal Executive
Committee to coordinate the ERP
affairs for the German Administration
of the Bizonal Area, attended as an
observer the third meeting of the
Council of the Organization for Euro-
pean Economic Cooperation in Paris.
This was the first time a German rep-
resentative of the Bizonal Area
attended an OEEC council meeting.

Joint Export Import Agency

Export trade with France has been
resumed. It had been stopped earlier
this year following the devaluation of
the franc which necessitated a new
arrangement for payments for trade
between France and the Bizonal Area.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Fifty German firms from the Bizonal
Area will be authorized to participate
in the international sales fair to be
given in Stockholm late in August.

A graphic exhibit and information
both showing the export potential of
the combined zones will be set up
at the Utrecht, Holland, industrial fair
which is scheduled for September.

US Zone

Brer Zachisson, director of the Gra-
phic Institute of Sweden, is making a
month's survey of publishing condi-
tions in Berlin and the US Zone, at
the end of which he will make
suggestions for further rehabilitation
and modernization of the German
publishing industry.

Bavaria

A decree issued by the Bavarian
food minister prohibited bakeries and
mills from having more than 10 days’
supply of flour on hand.

Richard Strauss, 84-year-old German
composer now living in Switzerland
and short-time president of the Nazi
music organization, has been classi-
fied “not concerned” by a denazifi-
cation tribunal in Munich. He had
been indicted as a major offender.

Hesse

Dr. Hans Paul Rempel, former editor
of the Badische Neueste Nachrichten
in Karlsruhe, became a co-licensee of
the Giessener Freie Presse. He re-
placed Ludwig Lewy who resigned
after being accused in a public forum
of biased reporting.

A retail store is planned by JEIA
in the Frankfurt area for the sale of
German-made luxury products to
anyone legally entitled to purchase
mark coupon books at the rate of
30 cents to the mark. The goods will
include a wide range of commodities

24

such as cameras, costume, jewelry,
fine woolwork, silverware and cera-
mics, which are at present available —
for export only. ‘a

Wuerttemberg-Baden

The state legislature unanimously _
voted to dispense with detailed dis-
cussions of the state budget in view
of the possibilities of tax and
currency reforms.

Bremen

An American vessel carrying 2,000
tons of Virginia tobacco arrived in ©
Bremen. This was the largest single
consignment of tobacco received for
the Bizonal Area.

British Zone

The British Military Governor has
announced that all applications by
foreign powers for the extradition of ©
persons alleged to have committed —
crimes against peace, war crimes or
crimes against humanity within Ar-
ticle II of Control Council Law No. 10
should be presented on or before ©
Sept. 1, 1948. :

A delegation of women members of
parliament sponsored by the British
Ministry of Labor is visiting the zone
to see the arrangements for recruiting
displaced persons and to look into the
possibilities of employing German
women in the United Kingdom. The
party consists of Viscountess David-
son, Lady Megan Lloyd-George, Mrs. ©
Muriel Nichol, Mrs. Barbara Castle,
and Miss Nancy Adams, the escort
officer. mt

British personnel are urged to do”
their part in reducing forest fires in

particularly about throwing lighted
cigaret butts and matches from moving

trains and cars. Picnic parties should

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 28 ---
ensure that they nave fully extin-
guished camp fires.

North Rhine/Westphalia

In German-conducted raids on
stores in North Rhine/Westphalia re-
cently, goods having a prewar value
of RM 350,000 were confiscated. Of
the 771 firms checked, 60 were found
to be hoarding scarce and essential
goods.

In order to relieve congestion in the
Ruhr and certain other parts of the
British Zone, it has been decided to
move certain installations to the less
congested and less heavily damaged
area in the vicinity of Muenchen-
Gladbach.

Lower Saxony

Hinrich Wilhelm Kopf, minister pre-
sident of Lower Saxony, presented his
new cabinet to the state legislature
on June 9, The former cabinet, a co-
alition of all parties, resigned March 11
over a controversy in land reform
legislation. In addition to Social De-
mocrat Kopf, the cabinet consists of
four other SPD members, four mem-
bers of the Christian Democratic
Union and one member of the Centrist
Party.

Schleswig Holstein

Since operation “Westward Ho”
was launched in May 1947 by PW/DP
Division for the resettlement of dis-
placed persons in the United Kingdom,
15,362 DP's have emigrated to the UK
from Schleswig-Holstein, and they
have been followed by 497 of their
dependants,

Hamburg

An Inter-Allied Music Library was
opened in Hamburg. The Library has
a grand piano and electric phonograph,
together with a library of orchestral
Scores, instrumental and vocal music,
phonograph records and musical liter-
ature of various types. The library
and use of the piano and phonograph
are now available to anyone in Ham-
burg and books and music may be
borrowed on payment of a small
charge.

To avoid further delay in the issue
of bonus “B" to Hamburg port work-
ers, JEIA have authorized an initial
advance of $30,000. Any further sums
will be made available as soon as the
exact figure of port earnings has been
ascertained. Bonus “B” is five percent

JUNE 29, 1948

Ines Grodhaus, 25-year-old German
war widow and telephone operator in
a Munich officers’ club, was selected
as the prettiest girl of Munich at a

beauty contest sponsored by Die
Tageszeitung, newspaper published at
the recent German Press Exhibition
in Munich. (DENA-Bild)

of the earnings of foreign currency
which is set aside for the purchase
of goods benefiting German workers
engaged on the manufacture of goods,
or the rendering of services, on export
account,

A record turn-round was achieved
in the port of Hamburg by the US
grain ship “Le Fontain Park” which
docked at Hamburg in the afternoon
of June 8, Unloading of the 8,964 tons
of grain began at 7 am. on June 9
and was completed by 9:15 p.m. on the
same day. The ship left Hamburg
early on June 10.

Berlin

Several hundred skilled construction
workers employed by US forces in
Berlin are being released to the Ger-
man economy to assist in the housing
reconstruction program in the US
Sector. Most construction essential
to the functioning of Military Govern-
ment and the occupation forces has
been completed.

25

Each resident of the US and British
Sectors of Berlin received during June,
in addition to the regular ration, a
special distribution of 250 grams of
raisins, 250 grams of soy-bean flour,
and 100 grams of tomato paste. In
July each person in the two western
sectors will get a supplementary ration
consisting of another 250 grams of
soy-bean flour and 250 grams of
prunes.

In a report to the British liaison
officer at the Berlin Magistrat, Fritz
Geisthardt of the city's Department for
Social Welfare, noted the city author-
ities’ satisfaction with the health and
physical condition of ex-POW Ber-
liners who have recently returned
from Britain.

A special concert was given for
German and Allied children by the
Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra. The
orchestra was conducted by Trevor
Harvey, young English conductor, who
explained the music to the children
before each selection, 1,600 Berlin
children between the ages of 12 and
18 from schools in all sectors of the
city, and 100 English and American
children were invited.

EUCOM

Approximately 8,000 US occupation
forces-held properties, throughout the
Command have been returned to the
German economy since the consolida-
tion of small US Army units and
detachments into barracks and similar
housing sites, and the elimination of
small army unit recreational buildings,
ordered one year ago.

Thefts from US Army stocks in the
European Command during April,
amounted to $78,000, EUCOM Head-
quarters announced. A breakdown of
the pilfered Army property shows that
thefts which occurred, while supplies
were in transit, amounted to $32,000.
The remainder consisted of losses
from EUCOM fixed installations.

Loans Authorized for Press

A press cooperative bank (Wirt-
schaftliche Genossenschaft der Presse)
is authorized to make loans to licens-
ed newspaper publishers and agen-
cies in the US Zone. It is admimis-
tered by a German board of super-
visors responsible to Military Govern-
ment.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Responsibility for Maintenance of
Quarters, AG 602 GSP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 14 May 1948. Lists respon-
sibilities of unit commanders and
post engineers.

EUCOM Central Welfare Fund,
General Orders No. 46, Hq EUCOM,
14 May 1948. Rescinds Sec I, GO
No. 106 EUCOM. 1947 and defines
functions and operations of fund
originally established Feb. 6, 1945.

Circular No. 42, Hq EUCOM,
17 May 1948. Sec I—Export and Import
of Tobacco Products: amends Par 4
Sec I Cir 41 Hq EUCOM 1947 con-
cering controls. Sec II—Charges for
Bachelor Type Billets: amends EUCOM
Cir 107 of 1947 as to effective date.
Sec IJI—Transportation of German
Civillians within Germany: amends
EUCOM Cir 23 of 1948 concerning
AGRC and rescission of Par 7. Sec
IV—Amendment to EUCOM-SOP 100:
renumbers C-5 as C-6. Sec V—Recis-
sions: Lists Sec II Cir 161 Hq USFET
1946, Sec I Cir 179 Hq USFET 1946,
Sec V Cir 180 Hq USFET 1946, Sec IV
Cir 89 Hq EUCOM 1947.

Use of Facilities for Official Com-
munications, AG 311.2 SIG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 12 May 1948, Cites means of
conservation of telecommunications.

Salvage, Scrap and Waste in the
European, Command, SOP No. 95, Hq
EUCOM, 20 May 1948. Rescinds
USFET-SOP 95 of 1946, USFET letter
AG 400.7 RMJ-AGO, “‘Disposition of
Kitchen and Mess Hall Waste," 28 Jan
1947; Sec III Weekly Dir No. 1, Hq
EUCOM, 15 Aug 1947; EUCOM letter
AG 400.7 GSP-AGO, “Réporting and
Evacuation ef Scrap and Waste Ma-
terial," 7 July 1947, and gives full
particulars,

US Information Center-US Zone, AG
371.1 (IC), OMGUS, 24 May 1943.
Interprets paragraph of OMGUS
letter of May 10 on supply respon-
sibilities,

Unit Personnel Status Reports and
Requisitions, AG 200.3 GPA-AGP-3,
Hq EUCOM, 24 May 1948, Rescinds
EUCOM letter of April 17, 1947 and
gives new procedure,

Assignment Readjustment Proce-
dures, AG 210.3 GPA-AGO, Hq

INFORMATION BULLETIN

EUCOM, 24 May 1948. Explains re-
ports required in preceding letter.

Release for Agricultural Utilization
and for Settlement Purposes of
Property of the Military and Para-
Military Organizations of the Reich,
AG 010 (EA), OMGUS, 26 May 1948.

Circular No. 43, Hq EUCOM,
26 May 1948. Sec I: Public In-
formation Policies and Procedures:
amends EUCOM Cir 33 of 1948
concerning restrictions, Sec II: Charges
for Bachelor Type Billets: adds
sentence to EUCOM Cir 107 of 1947
as to size of accomodations. Sec III:
Tables of Clothing and Equipment
Allowances: amends Table A _ in
EUCOM Cir 13 of 1948,

Advance Copy of Change 20 to
Title 9, “Public Safety, AG 010 (CA),
OMGUS, 28 May 1948. Substitutes for
Part 10 in Change 13.

Blank Forms and Printing, AG 315
(CO), OMGUS, 28 May 1948, Re-
quires review and report on blank
forms by July 6.

Changes in Transmission Instruc-
tions Concerning Property Control,
Reparations and Restitution Reports,
AG 319.1 (Gen) (PD), OMGUS, 28 May
1948,

Downgrading of War Department
Pamphlets, AG 380.01 (AG), OMGUS,
29 May 1948, Amends par 1 of
OMGUS letter of April 7, 1948.

EUCOM Units Remaining Indefi-
nitely in Frankfurt, AG 322 (AG),
OMGUS, 2 June 1948. Names as
continued to be served by APO 757:
Provost Marshal, Inspector General,
Claims, Special Services, Audit
Agency, AG Pubs and MRU Sections,
Judge Advocate, Finance, Historical,
970 CIC, Allied Contact Section,

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Requests, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
4 June 1948. Lists: L 31-1, Draft Law
Supplementing Law Concerning Ad-
ministration of Vital Statistics (dis-

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters,

26

approved); L 31-4, Draft Law Concern-
ing Conscription, in the Public
Interest, of Property and Services
(disapproved); L 31-5, Draft Law on
Eligibility of Expellee Lawyers for
Admission to the Bench (approved);
L 31-8, Expediting of Procedure fur
Issuance of Exit Permits (current
procedure cited); L 31-13, Increase of
the Weekly Quota for Entry into
the US Zone of Ethnic Germans from
Czechoslovakia (disapproved); D 58-2,
Conclusion, by German Insurance
Companies, of Insurance Contracts
Covering Assembly and Installation
Work Abroad (provisions of Control
Council Law No. 47 cited); L 26-2
and INT 31-1, Supervision of Credit
Institutions (disapproved); D 58-4,
Appointment of a Bizonal Custodian
for the “Preussische Staatsbank" and
for the “Umschuldungsverband deut-

scher Gemeinde” (approved in
principle but suggested appointee
rejected); D 60-1, Licensing of

Associations (approved in principle
but MG revisions noted).

Prosecution of Displaced Persons
and Assimiles for Violations of MG
Law No. 53, AG 383.7 (LD), OMGUS,
4 June 1948. Rescinds OMGUS letter
of July 17, 1947 and cites Notice
No, 2 under MG Law No. 53.

Military Government Ordinance
No. 24, AG 010.6 (CA), OMGUS,
10 June 1948. Amends MG Ordinance
No. 1 (SHAEF) concerning punishable
offenses.

Among Popular Plays

John van Druten’s “Voice of the
Turtle” is proving one of the most
popular plays in the repertory of Ger-
man theaters. Early in March, record
runs of two productions of this play
were noted, the 200th performance in
Berlin and the 75th performance in
Bavaria.

Another play which has established
itself as a favorite is "Three Men on
a Horse,” by John Ceci! Holm and
George Abbott, which at the end of
March had given almost 250 perform-
ances in Berlin and was still playing
to capacity audiences.

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 30 ---
KEY MG PERSONNEL

CINCEUR
(Berlin, APO 742)

Commander-in-Chief and Military Governor:
General Lucius D, Clay, 42481.
Personal Assistant: Capt. M. C. Allen, 42481.

Political Adviser: Ambassador Robert D.
Murphy. 42630, :
Special Adviser: Mr. J. Anthony Panuch,

45420.

Special Assistant: Mr, F. L, Devereux, 45207.

Budget and Fiscal Director: Col. J. J, Dub-
belde, Jr., 45405, 5

Executive Officer: Capt. B. B. Barrett, 45415.

Director of Management Control: Mr, James
L, Sundquist, 42077.

Chief, Management & Reports Branch EUCOM:
Mr. W. H. Schroder, 43794.

Director of Intelligence: Maj. Gen. R.L. Walsh,
45372.

Executive, Officer: Lt. Col. Robert L, Quinn,
45420,

Inspector General: Maj. Gen. Vernon Evans,
45321.

Executive Officer: Col. Harold R. Booth, 45322,

Director of Civilians Personnel: Mr. Robert
M. Barnett, 44368.

OMGUS
(Berlin, APO 742)

Commanding Genet OMGUS, and Deputy
Military Governor: Maj. Gen. George P.
Hays, 44655,

Administrative Assistant: Mrs. Mary Alderson,

43969.

Cultural Affairs Adviser: Dr, Herman B. Wells,
42891,

Governmental Affairs Adviser:
Frederick, 43831,

Governmental Administration Adviser: Mr.
George B. McKibbin, 42150.

Special Consultant on Property Division: Mr.
T. H. Ball, 43068,

Office of Chief of Staff

Chief of Staff: Brig. Gen. C. K. Gailey, 42634.
Executive Officer: Capt. V. W. Bond, 43529.

Office of Sercretary General
Secretary General; Mr. James E. King, Jr.,
42006,

Mr. Carl T.

Acting Staff Secretary: Mr. James E. King,
Jr., 42006.

Executive Secretary: Major James A. Mc-
Donald, 42477.

US Secretary, Bipartite Secretariat: Major
Walter E, Mather, 42078.

Deputy US Secretary: Major Gordon L. C.
Scott, 42224.

Assistant Staff Secretary (Reorientation): Mr.
Theodore C. Boyden, 43148,

Assistint Staff Secretary (Governmental-
Laenderrat): Mr. Eric G, Gration, 43380.
Assistant Staff Secretary (Reorientation;: Mr.
James M. Barnett, 43148.
Assistant Staff Secretary (Travel): Mr.
Christian J. Goll, 44646.

Personnel & Administrative Officer:
Helen D, Brand, 42131.

Control Office
Control Officer: Mr. James L, Sundquist,
42077,

1st Lt.

Assistant Control Officer for Bipartite Affairs:
Mr, Albert G, Sims, 45450.
Administrative Officer: Lt, Helen D. Brand,

Chief, Budget and Fiscal Branch: Mr. Fletcher
D. Mitchell, 43457.

Chief, Fiscal Control Section: Mr. Harold W.
Graham, 42209,

Chief, Budget Analysis Section: Mr. Curtis
Phythian, 43942,

Chief, Procurement & Fiscal Section: Mr.
Vernon C. Jones, 43560.

Chief, Organization & Program Branch: Mr.
Gordon P. Freese, 42059.

Assistant Chief: Dr. Beryl R. McClaskey,

JUNE 29, 1948

Chief, Reports & Statistics Branch: Mr. H. R.
Habicht, 42781.

Chief, Reports Section: Dr. Harold G. Carl-
son, 43056.

Chief, Historical Section: Dr. David G. White,

206.

Editor, Information Bulletin: Mr. H. Warner
Waid, 42252,

Assistant Editor: Mr. Henry S. Matteo, 42923.

Chief, Statistics Section: Mr. Burnham P.
Beckwith, 42353,
Forms & Publications Control: Mr. Albert

H. St. Denis, 42725,
epee cennee Section: Mr. Harold E. Miner,

Office of Personnel Officer:

Personnel Officer: Col. James T. Duke, 42897.
Executive Officer: Major Reginald J. Rivard,

3916.

Chief, Administrative Branch: Miss Rachael
F. Jones, 42651.

Acting Chief, Reports Section: Miss Mary
Wilkins, 42679.

Acting Chief, Civilian Personnel Branch: Mr.
‘W. H. Carpenter, 42085.

Acting Chief, Classification Section. Mr. W.
J. Richter, 42677.

Chief, Employee Relations Section: Mr. Paul
G. Lutzeier, 44325.

Acting Chief, Employee Training Section: Mr.
Robert W. Hawetson, 43358,

Acting Chief, Recruitment & Placement Sec-
tion: Miss Frances M. Moan, 43688.

Chief, Regulations & Procedures Section: Miss
Gervaise M. Lemke, 43471.

Chief, Civilian Payroll Section: Mr. John W.
‘Warner, 42969,

Chief, Civilian Leave Section: Mrs. Jamie
T. Fish, 43713.

Acting Chief, Status Section; Miss Edith M.
Diggs, 43805.

Chief, Suggestions & Awards Section: Mrs.
A. R. Christie, 42424,

Chief, Military Personnel Branch: Major
James M. Boyd, 42680.

Chief, Assigment Section: Capt. Hibbs S.

Meek, 42951.
Chief, Rotations, Redeployment Section: Capt.
John J. Carollo, 44471.
Chief, Indigenous Personnel
Gervaise M. Lemke, 43471.

Office of the Adjutant General

Adjutant General: Lt. Col. George H. Garde,
42031.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Frederick A, Sturm,
43197,

Personnel Officer: Mrs.
43870.

Chief, Miscellaneous Branch:
J. Storlie, 42302.

Assistent Chief: CWO Frank D.
42302.

Chief, Military Personnel Branch: Capt. Er-
win M. Shaffer, 43022.

Chief, Reference Library: Mr. Henry A. Dun-
lap, 44083.

Chief, Travel Branch: Major John B. Mallon,
44038,

Chief, Orders Section: Mr.
Coughlin, 43863.

Chief, Combined Travel Board: Mr. Jean J.
Chenard, 45265.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Stephen E. Krasa, 42214.

Chief, Entries Section: Mr. Lewis Milton,
42165.

Chief, Exits Section: Mr. Frank Erdoes, 45474.

CBT Branch Office Hesse: Chief: Mr. White,
Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 299.

Branch, Miss

Louise D. Larsen,

Capt. Clifford

Spannratt,

Eugene F.

CBT Branch Office Wuerttemberg-Baden:
Chief: Mr. Cornelis, Stuttgart 90751, ext.
318.

CBT Branch Office Bremen: Chief, Mr. Walter
J.Thimm, Bremen 20670.

CBT Branch Office Bavaria: Chief: Mr. Ur-
man, Munich 4249.

Chief, Publications Branch: Mr.
Richardson, 43508. BS

Chief, Printing Plant: Mr. Marshall H. Bruce,
5538.

Monroe M.

27

Chief, Lithograph Plant: Mr. Joseph F. Ges-
monde, 42582.

arrcet, Records Branch: Capt, Robert E. Reed,

Chief, Cable Control Branch: Mr. Charles R.
Bakey, 42250.

Cable Monitor
Bowe, 42320.

Chief, Message Control Branch: Capt. Homer
C, Kelso, 43761,

Office of Inspector General

Inspector General: Col. Walter E.
43627.

Audit Office

Chief: (vacant), 45256.
Deputy Chief: Mr. Walter P. Hooper, 45332.

Office of Director of Intelligence

Director: Col. Peter P. Rodes, 43851.

Deputy Director & Chief, Analysis & Research
Branch: Mr. Lawrence E. de Neufville, 43928,

Deputy Chief: Mr. Donald H. Cooper, 43012,

Chief, Security Branch: Mr. Laughlin A, Camp-
bell, 43903,

Executive Officer: Mr. Innis D. Harris, 43852

Chief, Administration Branch: WOJG Robert
Baker, 43875.

Intelligence Analyst (Legal & Denazification):
Mr. Innis D. Harris, 43852.

Intelligence Analyst (Sociological): Mr. John
T. Butterwick, 44308,

Intelligence Analyst (Political): Mr. Hans A.
Kallmann, 43930.

Intelligence Analyst (Economical): Mr. An-
thony Geber, 45327.

Intelligence Analyst (Sociological): Mr. Ed-
ward J. Arndt, 43905.

Intelligence Analyst
43883.

Intelligence Analyst (General): Miss Esther
M. Metzenthin, 43909,

Intelligence Analyst (Sociological); Miss Ann
Goodwin, 43670.

Intelligence Analyst (Economical): Mr, Louis
Mark, Jr., 43671,

Office of Director of Political Affairs:

Director: Mr. James W. Riddleberger, 42129.

Executive Officer: Mr. Alexander Mclver,
42701.

Acting Personnel Officer: Miss Eleanor C.
Bergmann, 43034.

Special Disbursing Agent: Mr. Charles M.
Rice, Jr., 42854,

ary, Liaison Office: ist Lt. Leon J. Barat,
13151

(night shift): Mr. Martin S.

Jenkins,

(Security): Mr. Orr,

Crash ounce Branch: Mr, Warren M. Chase,
Chief, Section I: Mr. Brewster H. Morris, 42104,
Chief, Section II: Mr. Perry Laukhuff, 44092.
Chief, Economic Branch: Mr, James W. Gan-
tenbein, 43182.
Assistant Chief: Mr. J,
43184.
Civil Air Attache: Mr. Milton M. Turner, 43360.
Chief, Press & Public Relations: Mr, Thomas
B. Wenner, 43844.

Kittredge Vinson,

Political Officer (Baden-Baden): Mr. Emest
de W. Mayer, Baden-Baden 2544.
Political Officer (Frankfurt): Mr. William

Bruce Locking, Frankfurt 6135,

Economic Liaison Officers (Frankfurt): Mr.
Hector C. Prud'homme and Mr. Wesley
C. Haraldson, Frankfurt 8803.

Chief, Consular Branch: Mr.
Vance, consul general, 43463.

Chief, Visa Section: Mr. Andrew E. Hanaey,
43689.

Chief, Notarials & Welfare Station: Mr, Fran-
cis A. Lane, 43437.

Chief, Citizenship Section: Mr.
Jordan, 43465.

Chief, Genera! Consular and Property Protec-
tion Sections: Mr. James S, Sutterlin, 42239.

Consular Offices

Berlin: Mr. Marshall M. Vance, consul general,
Berlin 43463.

Marshall M.

Francis C.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Bremen: Mr. Maurice W. Altaffer, consul
general, Bremen 20779.

Bremerhaven: Mr. Robert B. Houston, Jr.,
vice consul, Bremerhaven 21578.

Frankfurt: Mr. Sydney B. Redecker, consul
general, Frankfurt 33271.

Hamburg: Mr. Edward M. Groth,
general, Hamburg 34-4661.

Munich: Mr. Sam E. Woods, consul general,
Munich 2417.

Stuttgart: Mr. A. Dana
general, Stuttgart 93-664.

Public Information Office

Director: Mr. William Haggard, 43342.

Radio & Liaison Officer: Mr. William Hunter,
43450,

Acting Chief, News Branch: Mr.
J. Caldwell, 43606.

Administrative Assistant: Miss Mabel Klouda,
43433,

Chief, German News Branch: Mr.
B. Shubert, 45216.

Office of the Economics Adviser

Adviser: Mr. L. Wilkinson, 42683.

Deputy Economics Adviser: Mr.
Hawkins, 43773.

Deputy Adviser: Dr. D. D. Humphrey, 42809.

Special Assistant on Economics Procedures and
Controls: Dr, F. Kempner, 44544,

Special Assistant for Policy Coordination: Mr.
F. S. Hannaman, 42783.

consul

Hodgdon, consul

William

Leonard

Phillips

Executive Officer: 1st Lt. F, B, Shoomaker,
42700.
Chief, Administration Section: Capt. E. W.

Jones, 43554,

Chief, Central Secretariat: Mr. R. A. Steele,
42982.

Chief, Food and Agriculture Group: Mr. R. A.
Tonnes, 43554.

Acting Chief, Industry Group; Mr. F. L. Mayer,
42308.

Chief, Communications Group; Mr, E. H. Mer-
rill, 42469.

Chief, Research Control Group: Mr.
Nordstrom, 43243.

Chief, Transport Group: Col. H. W. Holmer,
42655,

c. H.

Chief, Reports and Statistics Group: Mr. Saul
Nelson, 43626,

Office of the Finance Adviser
Adviser: Mr. Jace Bennett, 45451.
Deputy Adviser: Mr. Jo Fisher Freeman, 42127.
Special Assistant to Adviser: Mr. Edward A.
Tenenbaum, 42729.
Excutive Officer: Mr.
42169,

Administrative Officer:
42591,

Acting Chief, Foreign Exchange Policy Group:
Mr, William S. Balderston, 43731.

Chief, Internal Finance Policy Group; Mr.
Walter Heller, 43169.

Deputy Chief, Central Bank Group: Mr. Henry
C. Conrad, Frankfurt 22805.

Deputy Chief: Mr. David Schwartz, 43444.

Chief, Foreign Exchange Depository Group:
Col. William G. Brey, Frankfurt 21191.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Frank C, Gabell, Frankfurt,
21191.

Chief, Financial Intelligence Group: Mr .Saul
Kagan, 42192.

Office of Naval Adviser

Commander of US Naval Forces in Germany
and Naval Adviser: Rear Admiral R. E.
Schuirmann, 42416.

Deputy Naval Adviser and Senior Technical
Officer: Capt. J. S. Crenshaw, 42363,

Intelligence Officer; Capt. A, H. Graubart,
43220,

Assistant Technical Intelligence Officer: Comdr,
H. B. Blackwood, 42314.

Assistant Deputy Naval Adviser: Lt. Comdr.
P. Gano, 45078,

Assistant Technical Officer: Lt. Cmdr. N. M.
Cooke, 42315,

Assistant Intelligence Officer: Lt.
E. G. Riedel, 42387.

Transportation and Personnel Officer Lt. (JG)
W. L. Crawford, 42221,

Aide and Flag Lieutenant: Ensign J. M. Land-
troop, 42416.

Armed Forces Division
Director: Maj. Gen. Willlam E, Hall, 43934.
Deputy Director: Col. T. B. Whitted, 42860.

Charles G. Caldwell,
Mr. R. B. Christensen,

Comdr.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

Chief, Air Forces Branch: Lt. Col. B. E. Stead-
man, 42062.

Chief, Army Branch: Col T. B. Whitted, 42860.

Chief, Disarmament Section: Lt. Col. G. Camp-
bell, 42013. :

Chief, Demobilization Section: (vacant), 42012.

Chief, Civil Aviation Branch: Mr. T, D. John-
son, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 446/489.

Berlin Liaison Officer:' Mr. J. Ferretti, 42111.

Chief, Airways Engineering Section: Mr. L. M
Hammond, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 443,

Chief, Airways Operations Section: Mr. Emer-
son Mehrling, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 441.

Chief, Economies Regulations Section: Mr. J. S.
Parker, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 448.

Chief, Meteorological Branch: Mr. Clayton Van
Thullenar, Bad Kissingen 2271, ext. 67.

Chief, Instruction and Supply’ Section: Mr.
Gallagher, Bad Kissingen 2271, ext. 67.

Chief, Navy Branch (attached):' Capt. J. S.
Crenshaw (US Navy), 45078.

Chief, Executive Branch: Mr. G. B. Robbins,
43036.

Deputy Chief: (vacant), 42260.

Chief Administrative Officer: (vacant), 42260,

Chief, Reports & Statistics Section: Miss Gene-
vieve Plagmann, 54168.

Civil Administration Division

Director; Dr: E. H. Litchfield, 42576.

Adviser: Mr. John Elliott, 45054,

Deputy Director for Bizonal Affairs: Mr.
Kenneth Dayton, 44546

Deputy Director for Operations: Mr. H. P.
Mettger, 43624,

Chief, CFM Secretariat Branch: Mr. Alexander
R. Forest, 44095.

Associate Chief: Mr. W. Thad Lovett, 43551.

Chief, Personnel & Administration Branch:
Mr. F. Joseph Tesmer, 42556.

Chief, Civil Service & Administrative Courts
Branch: Mr. Ellsworth Wolfsperger, Frank-
furt 22385.

Chief, Political Activities Branch: Mr. R.M.
Scammon, 42551.

Deputy Chief: Dr. Rowland M. Myers, 43378.

Chief, Governmental Structures Branch: Dr.
Hans Simons, 42610.

Chief, Legislation Branch: Dr. Erwin W. Bard,

Chief, Population & Analysis Branch: Mr. Kari
A. ‘Shafer. 42557.

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. Theo E. Hall,

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. L, McCraw, 43192.

Chief, Denazification Section: Major M. K.
Wilson, 43677.

Chief, Police & Fire Section: Mr. U. C. Urton,

Chief, Public Health Branch: Col. M. T.
Kubin, 42581.

Chief, ‘Preventative Medicine
Col. W. -R. de Forest, 42426,

Chief, Nursing Affairs ‘Section: Miss Lorena
S. Murray, 43350,

Chief, Narcotics Control Section: Mr. Charles
B. Dyar, 42413.

Chief, Public. Welfare Branch:
B. Smith, 43383,

Deputy Chief: Mr. T. M Willcox, 45311,

Chief, Displaced Persons Branch: Mr. L. G.
Kelly, 42175.

Chief, D. P. Section: Mr, E. L. Glazier, 45411.

Chief, Refugee Section: Mr. G. Weisz, 43672:

Section: Lt.

Mrs. Mildred

Executive, Repatriation Section: Mr. H. Ser-
bin, 3562 & 3191.
Chief, Civil Liberties & Democratization

Branch: Dr, Harold W. Landin,. 43841,

Education—Cultural Relations Division

Director: Dr. Alonzo Grace, 43981.

Deputy Director: Dr. Milton E.
42134,

Executive Officer: Mr. James L. Sexton, 42034,

Administrative Officer: Mr, Julqs Chaussabel,

Personnel Officer: Miss Elisabeth A. Moseley,

Muelder,

Acting Chief, Research & Information Section:
Mr. John F, Kraus, 43714,

Acting Chief, Cultural Exchange Branch: Mr.
Frank G, Banta, 43598,

Chief, Materials Exchange Section: Mr. John
B, Rhind, 44459.

Chief, Personnel Exchange Section: Mr. Frank
G. Banta, 43598

Personnel Exchange Specialist: Mr. Theron A.
Johnson, 44339.

Chief, Education Branch: Dr. Richard T. Alex-
ander, 43151,

Deputy ‘Chief: Dr. Lester K. Ade, 43760.

28

Chief Specialist Officer: Dr. Levi D. Gresh,
43514,

Chief, Elementary Education Section: Dr. Leo
J, Brueckner, 43483,

Chief, Secondary Education Section: Dr. Wil-
liam L, Wrinkle, 42469.

Textbooks & Materials of Instruction Section:

Radio Education Specialist: Mr. Samuel H.
Linch, 43736.

Visual ' Aids Specialist: Mr. Daniel Ignatoff,
43736.

Chief, University Education Section: Dr. Fritz
Karsen,

Vocational Education Section:

Agriculture & Home Economics Specialist: Mr.
George W. Ware, 42777.

Chief, Group Activities Branch: Mr. Lawrence
E, Norrie, 43687.

Chief, Adult Education Section: Dr. Willem
van de Wall, 43815,

Chief, Women's Affairs Section: Mrs. Lorena
B. Hahn, 43808.

Youth Activities Section:

Girl's Activities Specialis
Lam, 42278,

Youth’ Activities Specialist: Mr. Tracy Strong
Jr., 43507.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Mr. C. Arild
Olsen, 43125.

Chief, Catholic Affairs Section: Dr. John O.
Riedl, 43704.

Chief, ‘Evangelical & Free Church Affairs
Section: Dr. Otto G. Hoiberg, 43788.

Chief, Interfaith Relations Section: Dr. Ster-
ling W. Brown, 43212.

Information Control Division

ICD (Rear): Nuremberg 61207/8.

Director: Col. Gordon E. Textor, 42258,
Deputy Director: Mr. Thomas P, Headen,

43102,
Deputy Director for Policy: Mr, Alfred V.

Boerner, 44179.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col, A, D. Poinier,
42259,

Administrative Officer: Mr. James B. Jones,
427;

Dr. Elizabeth P.

Personnel Officer: Mr. Thomas J. Mizer,
43426.
Chief, Exhibition and Information Centers:

Mrs. Patricia van Delden, Nuremberg.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Robert’ Redlich, Nurem-
berg 61025.

Exhibitions
Nuremberg.

Chief, Film, Theater and Music Branch: Mr.
Eric T. Clarke, 43410.

Film Production Officer; Mr, Eric Pommer,
44613.

Officer: Mr. Peter Harnden,

Film Exchange Board Executive Officer: Mr.
Nils Nilson, 42569.

Documentary ‘Film Producer: Mr. Stuart H.
Schulberg, 3466.

Chief Documentary Film Editor:
Zigman, 3466.

Theater and Music Officer: Mr. John Evarts,
43431,

Chief, Opinion Surveys Branch: Mr. Frederick
W.. Williams, Nuremberg.

Deputy Chief: Mrs. Hedvig Ylvisaker, Nurem-
berg 61207.

Mr. Joseph

Chief, Field Survey Staff: Mr. Frederick
Trembour, Nuremberg.

Chief, Research Analyst; Mr. Fredenic&c W.
Swift, Nuremberg.

Chief, ‘Overt Management Branch: (vacant),
44403.

Chief, Fiscal Section: Mr. John Kidder, 43452.

Fiscal Director: Mr. John M. Bartels, 42644.

Paper Coordinator: Mr. Thomas J. Crowell,
Munich 2320, ext. 278.

Publications Specialist: Mr. Fred. B, Bleistein,
44606.

Deputy for Quadripartite Affairs, Plans and
Directives Branch: Mr. Herbert C. Mayer,
42268.

Deputy for Zonal Affairs: Mr. C. C. Baldwin,
2268,

Reports & Public Relations Officer: Mr. James
Garret Rogers, 43429.

Chief, Political Information
Lawrence F. Babcock, 43855.

Program Specialist, German Affairs: Mr. Mel-
vin Lasky, 44723.

Writer US Foreign Policy: Mr. Holbrock Brad-
ley, Nuremberg.

Film, Theater und Speaker
Marcel W. Fodor, 42268.
Lee Specialist: Mr. Milton S. Pratt,

9,

Branch: Mr.

Member: Mr.

Chief, American Information Bureau: Mr.
Charles P. Arnot, Nuremberg 61077.

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 32 ---
Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Arthur D. Eggleston,
Nuremberg 61354.

Press Scrutiny Officer: Mr. Peter Olden,
‘Nuremberg.

Liaison Ofticer, DENA: Mr. Alfred Jacobsen,
Bad Nauheim 2271/Frankfurt 58941.

Editor, News of Germany: Mr. Harold W.
Fellmann, Bad Nauheim 2271/Frankfurt 58941.

Assistant, Editor: Mr. Gene P, Mater, Bad
Nauheim 2271/Frankfurt 58941.

Chief, Publications Branch: Dr.
‘Waples, Nuremberg 61502.

Douglas

Publications Officer: Mr. Lawrence Dalcher,
Nuremberg.
Publications Officer: Mrs. Dorothy Waples,
Nuremberg.

Publication Coordinating Officer: Mr. B, Frank-
lin Steiner, Nuremberg.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr.
43430,

Deputy Chief: Mr. William R. Busch, 43569.

Charles S. Lewis,

Programming Officer: Mrs, Ruby Parson,
44415,

Chief, Radio Central: Dr. Hans B. Meyer,
44054,

Technical Officer: Mr. Harold O. Wright,
Frankfurt 50301, ext. 282.

Legal Division

Director: Col. John M. Raymond, 42456.

Associate Director: (vacant).

Deputy Director: Mr. William E. McCurdy,
42276,

Consultant: Mr. Samuel Kramer, 43461.

Consultant; Judge William Clark, 42109.
Administrative Officer: Mr. Robert B. Mautz,
42358.

Chief, Secretariat: M. E,I. Wiener, 42357.
Reports Officer: Mr. Franklin 'R. Stewart,
42425,

Librarian: Miss M. N. Robbins, 42404,

Publications: Mr. W. M, Linden, 42026.
Chief, Administration of Justice Branch: Mr.
Charles H. Kraus, Nuremberg.

Deputy Chief, Mr. Mortimer Kollender,
Nuremberg.

Chief, German Courts Section: Mr. Hans W.
Weigert, Nuremberg.

Chief, MG Courts Section: (vacant), Nurem-
erg.

Chief, Patent Section: Major Victor L. Bil-
lings, Nuremberg.

Chief, ‘Legal Advice Branch:
Heath, 42352.

Deputy Chief, Mr. Harry H. Mitchell, 42361.

Chief, General Law Section: Mr. Angus R.
Shannon, Jr., 42395.

Chief, German Law Section:
Husserl, 45041.

Chief, Legislation Branch: Mr. Creighton R.
Coleman, 43520.

Acting Deputy Chief, Mr. Arthur von Mehren,

Chief, German Law Revision Section:
Walter E. Menke, 44525,

Chief, Legislative Drafting Section: Mr. Albert
G. ‘Avery, 42178.

Mr. James E.

‘Mr. Gerhard

Mr.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. T. W. Markley,
Nuremberg.

Deputy Chief, Mr. Edgar M. Gerlach, Nurem-
erg.

Chief, War Crimes Branch: Mr. Ben Smith,
Nuremberg.

Manpower Division
Director: Mr. Leo R. Werts 42454,
Executive Officer: Col. Vernum C. Stevens,

Administrative Assistant: Mr. James Von
Herr, 42503.
Consultant, (Information to German Trade

Unions): Mr. Nels Anderson, 43326,

Chief, Secretatriat: Miss Mary Lou Slusher,
43642.

Chief, Wages, Labor Standards Branch: Mr.
Earl R. Beckner, 42430.

Chief, Labor Relations Branch: Mr.
Meskimen, 43701. :

Chief, Employee Organization Section: Mr.
George Silver, 43698.
Property Consultant: Mr.

42921.
Chief, Reports and Statistics Branch (Trade
ea Reports): Mr, Albert H. Berman,

Property Division
Director: Mr. Philipps Hawkins, 43773.

Deputy Director: Mr.-E. J. Cassoday, 43684.
Executive Officer: Mr. F. G. Hulse, 43678.

John K.

Daniel Mulloney,

JUNE 29, 1948

Special Assistant to Director: Mr. Frank J.
Miller, 43750,

Reports Officer: Miss Helen Downen, 43588.
Administrative Officer: Miss Freda Barker,
43610,

Chief, Reparations Branch:
McJunkins, 43050.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Fredericc G. Draper, 43051.

Property Control & External Assets Branch:
Wiesbaden, c/o OMG Hesse APO 633, Tel:
Wiesbaden Military 8341.

Chief: Mr. Fred E. Hartzsch, ext. 436.

Associate Chief: Mr. Samuel M. Rose,

Mr, Orren R.

ext.
435. |
Deputy Chief; Mr. William J. Dickman,

ext, 42

Central Filing Agency (Zentralmeldeamt),
Bad Nauheim,

Chief: Mr. Bernard Fischbein,
5093.

Restitution Branch: Karsruhe, APO 403, Tel:
Karlsruhe 617.

Chief: Col. John H. Allen, ext. 240.

OCCWC

(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)

Chief of Counsel: Brig. Gen, Telford Taylor,
61117.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (I, G, Farben): Mr.
Josiah E, Dubois, Jr., 61253.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (Krupp Case): Mr.
Rawlings Ragland, 61288.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (Ministries Case):
Dr. Robert M. W. Kempner, 61127.

Deputy Chief of Counsel (High Command
Case): Mr. James M. McHaney, 61232.

Executive Counsel: Mr. Benjamin B. Ferencz,
61361.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Autrey J.Maroun,
61120,

Director, Administrative Division: Capt. Donald
Paul, 61178.

Director, Reproduction Division: Major Alex-
ander C. Granzin, 61028.

Director, Signal Division: Major Kenneth K.
Evans, 61050.

Director, Language Division: Mr. Thomas K.
Hodges, 61106.

Director, SS and Military Division: Mr. James

. McHaney, 61232.

Director, Evidence Division:
61194,

Director, Economic Ministries Division:
H, Russell Thayer, 61216.

Director, Political Ministries Division: Dr, Rob-
ert M. W. Kempner, 61127.

Director, Special Projects Division: Mr. Paul
H. Gantt, 61222.

Chief, Trial Team 1 (1. G. Farben): Mr. Drexel
A. Sprecher, 61244,

Chief, Trial Team 3 (Krupp Case): Mr. H.
Russell Thayer, 61286.

Director, Public Relations Division, and Public
Information Officer: Mr. Ernest C. Deane,
61261,

Deputy Public Information Officer for Amerl-
can Press and Radio: Mr. Eugene Phillips,
61261,

Deputy Public Information Officer for German
Press: Mr. George Martin, 61262.

Civilian Personnel Officer: Miss Sara L. Krus-
kall, 61736.

Berlin Branch (Berlin, APO 742)

Chief: Mr. R. Steinitz, 42103. -_
Chief, Economics Section: Mr. R. Steinitz, 42103.
Chief, Ministries Section: Mr. M. Schafer, 2263.

Military Tribunals
(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)
Secretary General of Tribunals: Dr. Howard

Bad Nauheim

Mr. WalterH. Rapp,
Mr.

* L. Russell, 61281.

Marshal of the courts: Col. Samuel L, Met-
calfe, 61147.

Military Tribunal. III (Krupp Case)

Presiding: Judge Hu. C. Anderson, 61202.

Judge Edward J. Daly, 61201.

Judge William J. Wilkins, 61200.

Military Tribunal IV (Ministries Case)

Presiding: Judge William C. Christianson, 61587.

Judge Robert Francis Maguire, 61324.

Judge Leon Powers, 61300.

Military Tribunal V (High Command Case)

Presiding: Judge John C. Young, 61302.

Judge Justin W. Harding, 61303,

Judge Winfield B. Hale, 61301,

29

Military Tribunal VI (I. G. Farben)
Presiding: Judge Curtis G. Shake, 61611.
Judge Paul M. Herbert, 61608,

Judge James Morris, 61610.

Judge Clarence K. Merrill, 61609.

Bipartite Board
(Berlin, APO 742)
US Member: General Lucius D. Clay, 42481.
Bipartite Secretariat
US Secretary: Major W. E. Mather, 42078.
Acting US Deputy Secretary: Mr. Thorley C.
Mills, 42224,
Assistant US Secretary: Major Maxwell S. Mc-
Knight, 43697.
Assistant US Secretary: Mr. Hugh W. Wolf,
43652.
Assistant US Secretary: Mr. Ernest Wiener, 42291.

Bipartite Control Office
(Frankfurt, APO 757)

US Chairman: Mr. C. L. Adcock, 22706.

UK Chairman: Lt. Gen. Sir G. N. Macready,
22091,

US Deputy Chairman; Mr. R. K. Phelbs, 21385.

UK Deputy Chairman: Mr. D, L, Anderson,
21561.

Office of US Chairman

Governmental Affairs Adviser: Mr. K, Dayton,
21652.

Assistant Adviser: Mr. S. Wahrhaftig, 22435.

Assistant Adviser: Mr. A. Pabsch, 22435,

Economics Adviser: Mr. F. C, Wright, 21720.

Legal Adviser: Mr. R. D. Kearney, 22890.

Legislative Adviser: Mr. J. von Elbe, 22669.

Executive Officer: Mr. W. M. Kane, 21063.

Chief, US Secretariat: Mr. E. Linde, 22796.

Deputy Chief: Mr, R. Wallach, 22077.

Public Information Officer: Mr. Stephen L.
Freeland, 22329,

Management Control Officer: Mr. Edward L.
MacDonald, 21122.

Adjutant General: Lt. Col. George M. Weir,
21593,

Office of UK Chairman

Governmental Affairs Adviser: Mr. W. Fliess,
21188,

Assistant Adviser: Mr. Elam, 21434.

Political Adviser: Mr, O'Neill, 22632.

Legal Adviser: Mr. Wolff, 22819,

Assistant Legal Affairs Adviser: Mr. Hardacre,
22819.

Economics Adviser: Mr. R, Moulton, 22047.

Chief, UK Secretariat: Col. R. Kellett, 21319.

Deputy Chief: Mr. G. Scarlett, 21923.

Press Officer: Mr. Stewart, 21407,

Decartelization Commission

US Member: Mr. Richard Bronson, 22547.

UK Member: Brigadier Oxborrow.

Civil Service Group

Chief: Mr. R. C.. Simonson (US), 21374,

Deputy Chief: Major Vat Wade (UK), 21663.

Commerce & Industry Group

Chief: Mr. L. E, Spencer (US), 21510,

Deputy Chief: Mr. W. L. Tregoning (UK),
22489,

Communications Group

Chief: Mr. L, G. Semple (UK), 21882.

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. P, Rapp (US), 21173.

Finance Group

Chief: Mr. J. C. Bromage (UK), 22884.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Howard P. Jones (US), 22628.

Food, Agriculture & Forestry Group

Chief: Mr. Stanley Andrews (US), 22379,

Deputy Chief: Mr. G. E, Hughes (UK), 22207.

Transport Group

Chief: Sir Robert Inglis (UK), 21029.

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. P. Gross (US), 22103.

Legal Group

Chief; Mr. R. D. Kearney (US), 22890.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Harcourth Rose (UK).

Bepartite Statistical Office

US Chairman: Mr. Lee, Wiesbaden 409.

UK Chairman: Mr. F. R. Yates, Wiesbaden 492.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Joint Export-Import Agency
(Hoechst, APO 757)
(Telephone numbers are for Hoechst offices
pending transfer to Frankfurt)
Director-General: Mr. William John Logan
(US), 14542,

Deputy Director-General: Mr. J. F, Cahan (UK),
14667,

Executive Officer: Mr.
(US), 14560.

Deputy Executive:
14580,

Secretariat (US): Miss D. G. Shiamanna, 14646.

Secretariat (UK): Miss J. M. Johnston, 14695.

Acting Chief, Administration: Mr. James
Donahue, 14634.

Personnel Officer (US): Miss Alice Miles, 14649.

Personnel Officer (UK): Miss Winifred Hey,
14501.

Business Men's Office: Miss F. M. Donoghue,
14603,

Chief, Press Information Office: Mr. Arthur
Settel, 14583.

Photographer: Mr. A. C. Byers, 14505.

Chief, Legal Office: Mr. Clark Denney, 14525.

Adviser on Foreign Exchange and Payments
Agreements: Mr. Spenser Phenix, 14523.

Foreign Trade Division

Director: Mr. George J. Santry (US), 14504.

Deputy Director: Brig. M. R. L. Robinson (UKy,
1450.

Waldemar Thorson

Major S. Williams (UK),

Deputy, Policy and Planning: Mr. Harold E.
Rome, 14524.

Chief, ERP Planning & Statistics Branch: Mr.
Edward P. Pierce, 14653.

Chief, Operational Planning & Procedures
Branch: Lt. Col. R. B. Stanage, 14508.

Deputy Chief: Mr. John K, Conway, 14546.

Deputy for Trade Negotiations: Miss Ethel
Dietrich, 14581.

Chief, Foreign Markets Branch: Mr. W. LeRoy
Haskell, 14566, .

Deputy for Operations: Mr. John French, 14610.

Chief, Import Branch: Mr. William B. Hardy,
14644,

Deputy Chief: Mr. F. L. Berger, 14509.

Chief, Joint Food Procurement Office: Mr. Wil-
liam A. Close, Frankfurt 21756/21748.

Deputy Chief: Mr. H. W. Prentice, Frankfurt
22975.

Chief, Shipping & Forwarding Section: Miss
H. E. Andercron, 14629.

Chief, Export Branch: Mr. T. D. Palmer, 14517.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. A. Wilson, 14537.

Hotel Program: Mr. H. J. Morley, 14526.

Acting Chief, Textile Section: Mr. George E.
Ward, 14551/14573.

Office of the Comptroller

Comptroller: Mr. Moore C. Mcintosh, Frank-
furt 57892,

Assistant to Comptroller: Mr. R. W. Kimball,
Frankfurt 57892.

Chief, Machine Accounting, Mr. R. E. Ellmer,
Frankfurt 57892.

Chief, Budgetary Accounts: Mr. W. J. Baker,
14532,

United Kingdom Trade Mission: Mr. G. J. W.
Osburn, 14564.

Joint Foreign Exchange Agency
(Frankfurt, APO 757)
US Member: Mr. Jo Fisher Freeman.

Allied Bank Commission
(Frankfurt, APO 757)

US Member: Mr. Jack Bennett.
Alternate: Mr. Jo Fisher Freeman.

US-UK Coal Control Group

(US Element)
(Essen, British Zone)

US Chairman: Mr. Robert R. Estill Villa Huegel,
Essen, ext. 76.

Production Chief: Mr. A. F. Marshall, ext. 103,

Mining Supply Chief: Mr. J. P. Tipper, ext. 85.

Deputy Distribution Member: Mr. Don E. Wil-
son, ext. 18,

ered Engineer, Mr. W. E. Fourqurean, ext.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

RGCO

(Stuttgart, APO 154)

Director: Dr. Charles D. Winning, 93550.

Executive Officer: Mr. Waldmar Dietz, 93002.

Senior Adviser; Mr. Anton Pabsch, 93071.
Adviser: Economic Branch: Mr. Carl R. Mahder,
93013.

Adviser, Labor and Welfare Branch: Mr. Heinz
Guradze, 93001.

Adviser, Legislative Review:
more, 93008,

Chief, Reports and Information Branch: Miss
Myrtle Todd Moseley, 93810,

Chief, Public Information Branch: Mr, James
G. Lyons, 93805.

OMG for Bavaria
(Munich, APO 407)
State Director: Mr. Murray D. Van Wagoner,
206.

Dewilda Nara-

Special Adviser: Mr. Edward F. Kennedy, 208.

Deputy State Director: Mr. Clarence Bolds, 207,

Acting Executive Officer: Mr. R. R. Lord, 205.

Chief, Administration Branch: Major T. R.
Martin, 568.

Chief, Civilian Personnel Branch: Mr. Schubert
E, Smith, 604.

Chief, Military Personnel Branch: Capt. John
J. Kinsella, 583.

Chief, Investigation & Claims Branch: Mr.
David Gallant, 567.

Chief, Real Estate & Land Resources Branch:
Dr. Augustus B. Hill, 558.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Mr. Albert C, Schweizer, 223.

Chief, Denazification Branch: Mr. W. E.
Griffith, 500,

Acting Chief, Field Liaison Branch: Mr, John
Leidy, 482.

Chief, Governmental Structures Branch: Mr.
John P. Bradford, 224.

Acting Chief, Political Activities Branch: Dr.
Pierre M. Purves, 219.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Dr.
Jenney, 470,

Acting Chief, Public Welfare and Displaced
Persons Branch: Mr. William R. Gosser, 492.

Acting Chief, Public Safety Branch: Capt. W. R.
Rohan, 476,

Economics Division

Director: Mr. Harold A .Taylor, 235.

Chief, Food & Agriculture Branch: Mr. Kenneth
‘W. Ingwalson, 250.

Acting Chief, Industry Branch: Mr, Jacob Full-
mer, 260,

Chief, Reparations Branch: Lt. Col. James F.
McCaslin, 270,
Chief, Restitution

Yanish, 288.

Education & Cultural Relations

Division

Acting Director: Mr. Louis Miniclier, 538.

Acting Chief, Cultural Exchange Branch: Mr.
Kenneth J. MacCormac, 528.

Chief, Education Branch: Mr.
Derthick, 461,

Acting Chief, Group Activities Branch: Mr.
Charles Carroll, 468,

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr. James M.
Eagon, 467,

Field Operations Division

Acting Director: Mr. Kenneth E. Van Buskirk,

E, Ross

Branch: Mr. Otto F.

Lawrence G.

Control Officer: Mr. Paul W. Deibel, 213.

Finance Division

Acting Director: Mr. William H. Harrison, 312.

Acting Chief, Finance Branch: Mr. J. Bartos,

Chief, Investigation & Enforcement Branch: Mr.
John R. McCarthy, 323,

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr.
Lennon, 313.

Information Control Division

Director: Mr. James A. Clark, 400.

Chief, Film, Theater & Music Branch: (vacant).

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Ernest Langendorf,
3

J. H.

Chief, Publications Branch; Mr. Heinrich B.
Siemer, 4412,

30

Chief, Publishing Operations Branch: Mr. Jack
M. ‘Fleischer, 2320.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr. Edmund Schecter,
2510.

Chief, Exhibitions & Information
Branch: Mr. C, S, Wright, 401.

Intelligence Division

Director: Mr. R. C. Martindale, 413.

Acting Chief, Analysis Branch: Mr. Paul E.
Barnett, 406,

Acting Chief, Reports Control Branch: Mr.
Thomas Coad, 430.

Acting Chief, Research Branch: Mr. Paul E.
Moeller, 428.

Legal Division

Director: Mr. Jaun A. A. Sedillo, 530.

Chief, German Courts Branch: Mr.
Goodman, 546.

Chief, Legal Advice Branch: Mr. Leonard J.
Ganse, 534.

Centers.

Leo M.

Chief, Legislation Branch: Mr. Bertrand C.
Oberry, 536.
Chief, MG Courts Branch: Mr. Worth B.

McCauley, 535.
Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. John J, Raymond,
Suh.

Manpower Division

Director: Mr. Frantz G. Loriaux, 554.

Chief, Field Operations Branch: Mr. Herbert
W. Baker, 553.

Chief, Labor Relations & Standards Branch:
Mr. Abe Kramer, 556.

Acting Chief, Manpower Allocations Branch:
Mr. Abe Kramer, 557,

Public Intormation Branch

Acting Chief: Mr. H. R. Mahoney, 615,

Transportation Branch

Acting Chief; Mr. Charles Hansen, 640.

OMG for Hesse

(Wiesbaden, APO 633)
Telephone numbers 8341—49
Director: Dr. James R. Newman, ext. 382—8424.
Deputy Director: Mr. Francis E. Sheehan, ext.
283—8436.

Executive Officer: Mr. Ernest K. Neumann,
ext, 216—8463,

Assistant Executive Officer: Mr. Robert W.
Bruce, ext. 216—8463.

Adjutant: ist Lt, Robert D, Thayer, ext. 470.

Personnel Division

Director: Mr. James R. Haarstad, ext. 480.

Chief, Administrative Branch’ and  Acco-
modattons Branch: Mr. Frederidc C. Winkler,
ext. 460,

Historical and Field Reports Division
Director: Mr. Clifford K. Burke, ext. 409,
Deputy: Mr. Robert A. Irving, ext. 247.

Public Information Division

Director: Mr. Hillard A. Rhoades, ext. 380,

Deputy: Mr. Wiliam D, Stewart, ext. 380.

Intelligence Division

Director: Mr. James E. O’Steen, ext. 330—331,

Deputy: Mr. Robert H. Cunningham, ext. 332.

Liaison and Security Control Division

Acting Director: Mr. Arsen L, Yakoubian,
ext. 217, .

Property Division

Director: Mr. William R. Rule, ext.

Deputy: Mr. John R. Cain, ext. 366.

Chief, Auditing and Accounts Branch: Mr. Allan
Wilson, ext. 365.

360—561.

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr. Victor
Cronthall, ext. 362.
Chief, Decartelization Branch: Mr. Eric L.

Mayer, ext. 449.

Chief, Reparations Branch: Mr. Ernest J. Bootz,
ext. 290.

Chief, Monuments & Fine Arts Branch; Mr.
Theodore Heinrich, ext, 258.

Legal Division

Director: Mr. Franklin J. Potter, ext, 340—341.

Deputy: Mr. Mare J. Robinson, ext. 340—34l.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. Wallace Lawrence,
ext. 349,

JUNE 29, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
Chief, Military Government Courts Branch:
Major DeWitt White, ext. 346,

Chief, Administration of German Justice, Le-
gislation and Legal Branch: Mr. Ernst

Anspach, ext. 342.

Education—Cultural Relations Division

Director: Dr, Harry A. Wann, ext. 300.

Deputy: Mr. Vaughn R. DeLong, ext. 301.

Chief, General Education Branch: Mr. Eugene
R. Fair, ext, 403,

Chief, Higher Education Branch: Dr. Howard
P, Becker, ext. 304.

Chief, Adult and Vocational Education Branch:
Dr. Howard Oxley, ext. 302.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Mr. Dumont
F. Kenny, ext. 307.

Chief, Youth Activities Branch: Mr,
Welch, ext. 306.

Austin

Denazification Division

Director: Mr. Hubert 1.
230—539,

Deputy: Mr. Roger E, Reynolds, ext. 232—234.

Chief, Enforcement Branch: Mr. John E. Stark,
ext. 235—531.

Teitelbaum, ext.

Information Control Division

Director: Mr. Frederick N. Leonard, ext. 320.

Deputy: Mr. Arthur Reef, ext. 320 and 321.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr. Herbert C, Gross,
Frankfurt 50301.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Raymond J. Stover,
ext. 327,

Chief, Publications Branch; Mr. Frederick A.
Praeger, ext. 329,

Chief, Film, Theater, Music Branch: Mr. Wil-
liam P, Dubensky, ext. 322.

Chief, Information Center Branch: Mr. Emil
P, Jallouk, ext. 319.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Mr. Dale Noble, ext. 220.

Deputy: Mr. Otto A. Atzert, ext. 223.

Chief, Government Affairs Branch: Mr. Otto
A. Atzert, ext, 223.

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. John E. Stuer-
wald, ext, 390—592.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Lt. Col. Charles
Moseley, ext. 370—570,

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mr. Sharon L.
Hatch, ext, 400,

Bizonal Liaison Division

Director: Mr. Stanley H. Sisson, ext. 240,

Deputy; Mr. Joseph I. Taylor, ext. 242,

Chief, Transportation Branch: Mr. Theodore
E. Dodds, ext. 420—421,

Chief, Food and Agriculture Branch: Mr. Saul
M. Katz, ext. 250—556,

Chief, Manpower Branch: Mr. Glenn E. Garrett,
ext. 350,

Chief, Finance Branch: Mr. Donald S. Spigler,
ext. 310,

OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden
(Stuttgart, APO 154)

Director: Mr. Charlies LaFollette, 550.

Executive Officer: Mr. Harvey M. Coverly, 542.

Assistant Executive Officer and Adjutant:
Lt. Col. L. C. Cooke, 438.

Governmental Affairs Officer: Mr. Chester
B. Lewis, 395.
Reports and Statistics Officer: Mr. James B.

Larwood, 534.
Allied Liaison Officer: Mr. A. G. Robertson, 252.
Public Information Officer: Mr. Beccman, 386.

Interior’ Division
Director: Mr. J. Ward Starr, 510.
Assistant Director: Major James C. Andrews,

Chief, Public Safety Branch:
L. Perry, 545—548,

Deputy Chief: Mr. James E. Hurley, 545,

Chief, ‘Fire Section: Capt. George W. M. Brown,
36,

Lt. Col. Robert

Chief, Urban Police Section: Mr. Roy C.
McAuley, 223.

Chief, Rural Police Section: Mr. Frank E.
Miller, 240.

Chief, Identification Section: Mr. Louis A.
McCracken, 257.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch:
Campbell, 548.

Deputy Chief: Mr. William S. Fitzer, 553.

Mr, James H.

JUNE 29, 1948

Chief, Child Welfare Section:
Wachenheim, 578. ;

Chief, R and DP Section: Mr. Ward A. Miles,
585.

Mr. Hedwig

CARE Representative: Mr.
93240, ext. 219.

CRALOG Representative: Mr. Dwight B. Har-
ner, 324.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Lt. Col. Philip R.
Beckjord, 515—373.

Deputy Chief: Dr. R, Q. Petitfils, 525.

Chief, VD Control: Capt. Albert Dresner, 392.

Chief, Housing and Real Estate Branch: Major
Willian T. Neel 465.

Chief, Real Estate Section: Mr. Harold More,
448,

Chief, Construction and Investment Section:
Mr. Herman Brunke, 465.

Economics Division

Director: Mr. George L. Erion, 549.

Assistant Director: Major Glenn C, Hess, 528.

Chief, Scientific Research Control: Lt. Col. L.
J. Brunton, 217.

Chief, Industry Branch: Lt. Col. L. J. Brun-
ton, 420.

Deputy Chief: Major John A. Holbrook, 458.

Chief, Metal, Machinery and Optics Section:
Mr. George E. Copp, 425.

Chief, Textile And Consumer Goods Section:
Mr. Felix G. Stetson, 451.

Cline’ Fletcher,

Chief, Chemicals Section; Mr. George D.
Martin, 224.
Chief, Building Materials Section: Mr. James

W. Butler, 263.

Chief, Reparation Section: Lt. Col.
Sears, 562.

Chief, Trade and Commerce Branch: Mr. Frank
S. Wilson, 466,

Deputy Chief: Mr. George L. Simonsen, 678.

Chief, Restitution Branch: Mr. Edward O.
Smith, 348.

MFA &A Section: (vacant), 627.

Chief, Decartelization Branch: Mr.
Hurliman, 339,

Chief, Food and Agriculture Branch: Mr. Paul
F. Taggart, 214.

Deputy Chief: Mr. S. L. Buddemeier, 267.

Chief, Statistic Section: Mr. William F,
Doering, 225.

Chief, Research Program Planning: Mr. Wil-
liam H. Wood, 248.

Chief, Forestry Branch: Mr.
Messek, 236.

Chief, German Agencies Branch: Mr. Kenneth
Myers, 440,

Chief, Requirements & AHocations Branch: Mr.
Joseph Letteriello, 557.

Chief, Coal & Mining Section: Mr. Henry E.
Sprow, 218,

Chief, Public Utilities Section: Mr. Henry E.
Sprow, 218.

Chief, Reports & Statistics Procurement Sec-
tion: Mr. A. H. Zane, 228,

Manpower Division

Director: Mr. Edwin F. Beal, 569.

Chief, Social Insurance Branch: Mr. Theodore
A. Lapp, 567.

Chief, Labor Allocations Branch: Mr. Walter
H. Keller, 253,

Chief, Labor Relations Branch: (vacant).

Finance Division

Director: Lt. Col. D. J. Drinkert, 564.

Chief, Private Finance Branch: Mr. John Van
Stirum, 531.

Chief, Banking Section: Mr. J. C. Cogswell,
512,

E W.

Otto E.

William H.

Chief, Public Finance Branch: Mr. Herbert F.
Fraser, 416,

Chief, Taxes Occupation Costs Section: Mr.
William Gidaly, 241.

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr, Zinn B.
Garret, 597 ext. 213,

Transportation Division

Director: Mr. Arthur M. Garrison, 268.

Chief, Highway Maintenance Branch: Mr, Wil-
liam D. Neill, 247.

Chief, Highway Transportation Branch: Mr.
Elden H. French, 535,

Chief, Vehicle Maintenance & Supply Branch:
Mr. Robert J. Stamp, 260.

Denazification Division

Director: Mr. David F. Anderson, 544.

Deputy Director; Mr. Newton S. Friedman,
644,

31

Chief,

Chief, Baden Liaison Office: Mr. Walter S.
Leeds, Karlsruhe.

Chief, Ministerial Liaison Review, Mr. F. T.
Churchill, 311.

Chief, Field Adviser & Investigation Branch:
Major James L. Spellman, 311.

Chief, Internment Camp Branch: Capt. John D.
Austin, 472,

Chief, Document Center & Statistical Branch:
Mr. Walter Hart, 231.

Chief, Stuttgart Special Branch: Mr.
Wolfsheimer, 422,

Chief, Tribunal & Review Section; Mr. Curt
Engelbrecht, 625.

Education & Religious Affairs Division

Director: Mr. John P. Steiner, 527.

Deputy Director: Major Richard G. Banks, 584,

Chief, Higher Institutions Branch: Mr. H. A.

Basilius, 516.

Chief, Adult Education Branch: Mr. Ralph E.
Berry, 660.

Chief Schools Branch: Mr. Payne Templeton,
558,

John.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr. Karl J.
Amdt, 413.

Chief, ‘Youth Activities Branch: Mr.
A. Shelnutt, 574.

Assistant Chief: Mr. Aksel G. Nielsen, 426,

Legal Division

Director: Mr. Richard J. Jackson, 259.

Chief, German Justice Branch: Mr. Ralph E.
Brown, 597 ext, 263.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. Paul J. Gemert,
597 ext. 256.

Chief, Legal Advise Branch:
Smith, 597 ext. 274,

Assistant Chief: Mr. John Davis, 597 ext. 273.

Chief, Military Government Courts Branch:
Mr. Carl F, Fulghum, 597 ext. 217.

Information Control Division

Director: Mr. Nicholas Cannedy, 620.

Executive Officer: Mr. Stuart L. Hannon, 649.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr. Fred G. Taylor, 93678.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Joseph L. Dees, 638.

Chief, Publication Branch: Mr. E. W. Schnitzer,
610

Leon

Mr. Wesley A.

Chief, Film Branch: Mr. John Scott, 378.

Chief, Theater & Music Branch: Mr. William
Castello, 621.

Chief, Exhibit & Information Centers: Mr.
Michael Weyl, 93091.

Chief, Intelligence Branch: Mr. John H. Boxer,
630.

Chief, Research Branch: Mr. William Stevens,
270/280.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Mr. Chester B. Lewis, 395.

Chief, Government Structure Branch: Mr.
Harold L. Wyatt, 358,

Chief, Wuerttemberg Section: Mr. Donald S.
Harper, 374.

Baden Section:
Karlsruhe,

Chief, Legislative Coordinating Branch: Mr.
Fentress Gardener, 568.

Intelligence Division
Director: Mr. Peter Vacca, 541.

Capt. Henry Walter,

OMG for Bremen

(Bremen, APO 751)

Director: Mr. Thomas F. Dunn, 20686.

Deputy Director: Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN,
20279,

Executive Officer: Mr. Joseph L. Payette 20774,

Acting Adjutant: Capt. Elkan F, Solomon,
20073,

Public Information Officer:
Calkins, 20355,

Intelligence Officer: Mr. Nicholas Metal, 20997.

Budget & Fiscal Officer: Mr. Joseph L. Napoli,
20355,

Personnel Officer: Miss Genevieve Sullivan,
20435.

Mr. Howard W.

Civil Administration Division
Chief: Mr. Dale D. Clark, 20769,

Denazification Division
Chief, Mr. Joseph L. Napoli, 20355.

Economics Division
Chief, Mr. Osborne M. Taylor, 20487.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Education Division
Chief, Mr. Harold H. Crabill, 20421.

Finance & Property Control Division
Chief, Mr. William H. Goebring.
Information Control Division

Chief, Mr. Duncan D. MacBryde, 20149,

Legal Division

Chief, Mr. Robert W. Johnson, 20633,
Manpower Division

Chief, Mr. George R. Mursell, 20188,

Public Health & Weliare Division
Chief: Dr. John D, Winebrenner, 20610.

Public Safety Division

Acting Chief: Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN,
20279.

Transport Division

Acting Chief: Mr. Thomas F. Dunn, 20686,

Waterfront Division

Acting Chief: Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN,
20279.

Attached Organizations:

Communications (BICO)-Chief: Mr. Harry A.

Lenhart, 20775. ;
Commerce & Industry (OMGSTEG)-Chief: Mr.
John H, Snyder, 20134. ,
Rail Branch (BICO)-Chief: Mr. Edward F. Sin-
clair, 20517.

Marine Production & Control Branch (BICO)-
Chief: Mr. Carley H. Paulsen, 20320.

Weser Field Organization (BICO)-Chief: Mr.
Kenneth E. McGregor, 20222.

JEIA, Bremen Branch-Chiei: Mr. Bertrand R.
Clarke, 20221. ,
Public Opinions Survey (ICD OMGUS)-Chief:

Mr. Emest J. Colton, 20930.

OMG for Berlin Sector
(Berlin APO 742-A)

Director: Col. F. L, Howley, 43116

Deputy Director: Mr. W. T.
43414/43138, .

Deputy Director: Mr. A. W. Moran, 43161.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. C. O. Buckland,
43163.

US Commandant, Allied Kommandatura Berlin:
Col, F. L. Howley, 44919.

Chief of Staff: Lt. Col. W. F. Maring, 44915.

Assistant Chief of Staff: Lt. Col, G. M.
McClintic, 44938.

Assistant Chief of Staff:
‘44914,

Chief; Civil Administration and Political
Affairs Branch: Mr. L. Glaser, 42938.

Chief; Communications Branch; Mr. H. P.
‘Wingate, 42614.

Deputy: Mr. C. R. Ballard, 42616. ,

Chief, Economics Branch: Mr. D. H. Hair,
42987, ; x

Deputy: Mr. J. W. Darling, 43543.

Chief, Commerce & Industry Section: Mr.
O. 'S. Curran, 42988.

Chief, Food & ‘Agriculture Section: Mr. L, J.
Steck, 43114.
Chief, ‘Requirements & Allocations Section:
Mr. E, W. Kunkel, 43038, ;
Chief, Transportation Section: Mr. C. A, Dix,
43064.

Chief, Building & Housing Section: Mr. A. B.
Fuller, 42888.

Acting Chief, Education & Cultural Relations
Branch: Mr. J. C. Thompson, 42837.

Chief, Religious Affairs Section: Mr. J. C.
Thompson, 42865.

Chief, Youth Activities Section: Mp. S. Miller,
42863.

Chief, Education & Curricula: Dr. H. B.
Wyman, 43248.

Chief, Adult Education & Sports: Dr. N. J.
Van Steenberg, 42838.

Chief, Finance Branch, Mr. J. F. Kilduff, 42787.

Deputy: Mr. L. W. Loop, 42788.

Chief: Information Control Branch: Mr. B.
Buttles, 44821.

Deputy: Mr. M, Josselson, 44801,

Chief, Publications Section: Mr. G, R. Parson,
44808.

Chief, Film Section: Mr. C, Winston, 42213.

Chief, Radio Section (RIAS): Mr. W. F.
Heimlich, 3381.

Babcock,

Mr. E, A. Taylor,

Chief, Theater & Music Section: Mr. J, Bitter,
44814,

Chief, US Information Centers: Mr. C. A.
Legge, 3103.

Chief: Legal Branch: Mr. W. F. Pape, 42916.

Deputy: Mr. A. A. Birnkraut, 42937.

Chief, Court, Section: Mr. J. A. Sabo, 21127.

US Director, Spandau Allied Prison: Major
M. Miller, 934100.

Chief, Intelligence Branch: Mr. H. E. Stearns,
44305.

Liaison Officers: (with mayors):

Berlin: Mr. K. F, Mautner, 421466, ext. 227.

Neukoelln: Mr. M. J, Kasprzycki, 3586.

Kreuzberg: Mr. C, J. Melchers, 3528.

Schoeneberg: Mr. C. J. Melchers, 3427.

Steglitz: Major J. E. Davisson, 43040.

Tempelhof: Mr. M. J, Kasprzycci, 5266.

Zehlendorf: Major J. E. Davisson, 2203.

Chief, Manpower Branch: Mr. G. N. McClusky,

Deputy: Mr. J. H. Genung, 45140.

Chief, Manpower Allocation Section: Mr. M.
Wye, 44318.

Chief, Labor Relations & Social Insurance
Section: Mr. E. L. Gardner, 44317/45183.

Chief, Wages & Labor Standards Section: Mr.
J. F. Allison, 42161.

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr. J.H. Nobles,

Deputy, Mr. J. McNulty, 43387.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Dr. E. E. Schwarz,
42738,

Chief, Public Relations, Statistical & Historical
Branch: Mr. F, W. Shaw, 42737.

Chief, Berlin Press Review: Mr. R. Simon,
3:

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. R. Ashworth.
43949, ext. 21.

Chief, Administrative & Fire Section: Mr. J.
P. M. Schmidt, - 43949, ext. 27.

Chief, Police Section: Mr. C. C. Bond, 43949,
ext, 24/25,

Chief, Special Branch Section: Mr. U. R. Gress,
43949, ext. 34.

Chief, Investigation Section: Mr. C. E. Westrum,
43949, ext. 38.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mr. W. M.
Froistad, 42638.

Deputy: Mr. H. R. Studd, 42663.

Chief, Public Assistance Section: Mr. P. J.
Gangloff, 43973,

Chief, Welfare
Schnell, 42665.

Chief, Public Works & Utilities Branch: Mr.
E, C. Rohrbaugh, 42714.

Deputy: Mr. A,.G. Skina, 42715.

Chief, Sewerage-Garbage Removal-Streets &
Bridges Section: Mr. M. E. Bolasny 42716.

Services Section: Mrs. R.

Allied Control Authority
(US Represenatives)
CONTROL COUNCIL
General Lucius: D. Clay.
COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Maj. Gen. George P. Hays.
Allied Secretariat

US Secretary: Mr. James E. King, Jr.

Deputy US Secretary: Mr. E, O. Oulashin.

Assistant to US Secretary: Capt. H, S. Beu-
kema.

This list of key personnel in
Military Government in Germany
was compiled by the Information
Bulletin staff from the latest
available information and by
check with the offices and divi-
sions concerned. The telephone
number after each name is that
of the exchange in the city in
which the unit is located,

Food Imports Depend
On Available Funds

Stanley Andrews, chief of the Bi-
partite Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Group, stated on his recent return from
Washington that with the world out-
look in grains, fats and supplementary
food items more promising now than
it has been at any time since the be-
ginning of the war, food imports for
the Bizonal Area of Germany during
the coming year would probably be
determined more by the amount of
money which would be allocated for
food procurement than by available
supplies.

Prior to this year the situatiom was
exactly reversed, Mr. Andrews pointed
out, food shipments into Germany hav-
ing been limited by the ctitical world-
wide shortage of available food stuffs,
with many nations competing for the
limited supply.

Mr. Andrews, who was called to
Washington to discuss bizonal food
requirements before the House Appro-
priations Committee and the Senate
Finance Committee, stated that sharp
Congressional criticism had been voic-
ed over the recent strikes in Germany
and the continued low output of in-
digenous food.

The world food prospect has taken a
sharp upward swing largely as the re-
sult of an anticipated bumper US wheat
crop, ranging between 1,000,000,000
and 1,250,000,000 tons, Mr. Andrews
stated. The 1948 corn crop, too, gave’
every indication of being an excep-
tionally large one, and plenty of oats
and grains serghums were also in
prospect. Provided the necessary funds
can be obtained, Mr. Andrews further
stated, it will be possible to import
500,000 tons of fodder grains and a
large quantity of protein feeds.

Fodder imports on such a scale
would permit immediate steps towards
rebuilding German cattle herds and~
the restoration of the German live-
stock industry to be taken this year.
Building up German livestock numbers,
which have been depleted by fodder
and grain shortages, would partially
solve the question of adequate supplies
of fats and meats for the.bizonal con- :
sumer,

DEUTSCHER VERLAG