--- Page 2 ---
am
en
Exteel
meen
iceascmmll
—
[a om |
—_
—
<M
—"
_
odin
—

FOOD STRIKES

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

FOOD STRIKES—Thousands of Ger-
man workers gathered in Munich last
winter as part of an orderly one-day
protest demonstration in which approx-
imately 1,000,000 persons throughout
Bavaria took part. An article on food

BULLETIN

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities TABLE OF CONTENTS
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-

Issue No. 133 April 20, 1948
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest
organizations in the United States. The :
Information Bulletin is distributed Amny to Continue Control in Germany . 2
without charge as a public service. The Food Strikes . 3
The editorial staff of the Information ns

‘atizing Germany . 6
Bulletin is a section of the Reports Dmg e x
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS. Mem- Curriculum Centers 8
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid, Editorial Opinion in German Press . 9
editor, Henry S. Matteo, assistant
editor; Val Green Bowman, writer; How Laws fre Mader- 5 ity acai) ¢ 7 eee
Mary Catherine Sullivan, reporter. Its Political Terrorism in Berlin . . ....... 47
Office is located in the Reports Branch Occupational Activities . . .........,. 20

Building, 20 Saargemuender Strasse,
Berlin-Dahlem. Its mailing address is: OfficialInstructions 20) “0. wont. 6 5, 8
Information Bulletin, Control Office
OMGUS, Berlin, Germany; APO 742,
US Army. Telephone numbers are
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227.
Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source cited OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

with the article. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
SUNN

Army to Continue
Control in Germany

The control of government in the US occupied area of Germany will
remain indefinitely in the hands of the US Army, the White House
announced in Washington on March 23. This step nullifies plans for
the taking over of US Zone administration by the State Department,
which was scheduled to take place on or about July 1.

Gen, Lucius D. Clay will remain as Military Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief of US Forces in Europe.

The text of the White House announcement follows:

“Following a review of the present situation, it has been decided that
it would be inadvisable to make any changes in our present ad-
ministrative arrangements for Germany.

“This decision will not have any adverse effect on progress toward
developing German responsibility for self-government and administrative
initiative.

“General Clay remains as Military Governor and as Commander-in-
Chief of US Forces in Europe.”

The Military Governor, in reply to a question asked at a press con-
ference in Frankfurt on March 25, said there would be no changes in
plans for cutting Military Government staffs, and in the civilianization
program.

General Clay said:

“There will be no changes in the programs at all. That has nothing
to do with the transfer or take-over. It is normal process with the
restoration of further self-government and further responsibility to the
German people, and the program will continue. The only possible effect
might be a retardation of civilianization of some of the officers within
Military Government. However, that would be a minimum retardation
and not a policy.”

The Military Governor said that, except in individual cases, it will
continue to be the policy to return military personnel in Military
Government to the United States unless they civilianized within a
certain period of time.

He added that under exceptional conditions an officer may be per-
mitted to complete his foreign tour in Military Government, but be
subject to replacement when his tour was completed.

sal AAA A TAA

INFORMATION BULLETIN : 2 APRIL 20, 1948

--- Page 6 ---
URING JANUARY and February

of this year more than two
million workers engaged in protest
demonstrations in the American and
British Zones of Germany. Some of
these were citywide stoppages of an
hour, a few hours or a day. Bavaria
had a one-day strike of about 1,000,000
workers, and about the same number
of workers a few days later staged a
24-hour stoppage in the other states
of the American Zone and in the
British Zone.

These stoppages have been called
hunger strikes by some, radical upris-
ings by others, but they have also
been called a form of democratic ex-
pression on the part of German labor.
Almost without exception, these were
orderly demonstrations, If, for example,
a stoppage was scheduled for one
hour, the workers were back on their
jobs an hour later.

Before considering the reasons for
these strikes, and their meaning, it is
important to note that they had not
been called in violation of law. Mili-
tary Government did not prohibit
them. In the western zones of Germany
the right of the workers to strike is
Tecognized. They served as a means
of expressing a grievance and, as we
Shall note, they served a democratic
purpose.

In these protests, the employers
Were not involved. Blame was not
heaped upon them for the unhappy
working conditions in many German
enterprises. Little mention was made
of the wages and hours issue, nor the
Tight to join a union or the right of
unions to bargain collectively. These
tights are established by law in all of
Germany, and the laws are conformed

INFORMATION BULLETIN

By Nels Anderson
Expert Consultant, Information Control
Division and Manpower Division

with in the western zones where
unionism is still democratic.

There was no discussion in these
demonstrations about the closed shop
or the collection of union dues by
employers. Also absent in these
stoppages were those issues involving
inter-union struggle.

German trade unions are fully
recognized by the occupying powers
and under German law. They have a
place in the German economy. In the
western zones the trade unions do
their differences with the
employers’ associations regarding the
part that organized labor will play in
directing and planning the German

have

economy, but these issues were not
prominently evident in the food
strikes,

XCEPT INDIRECTLY, the occu-

pation powers were not involved
in the food strikes, although the KPD
(Communist Party) tried to make it
appear that the United States was to
blame for the winter's food shortage.
As far as the responsible trade union
leaders were concerned, these demon;
strations were aimed at the German
authorities, Departments of German
government responsible for food
supply in the American and British
Zones were charged with a lack of
initiative and diligence in:

iS Collecting available food supplies
from German farmers.

2. Apprehending and punishing Ger-
mans who were allegedly traffic-

Koenig Place, Munich, was thronged last winter with Germans who
gathered to hear labor leaders protest against the food rationing
program ia Bavaria.

(Signal Corps photo}

--- Page 7 ---
ing in food on the German black
market.

3. Failing to equitably distribute the
food stocks on hand,

The strikes brought into the open
the age-old clash of interests between
rural producers and urban consumers
of food. The industrial part of the
population, the “non-self-suppliers,”
were convinced that the farmers were
not delivering their required quotas,
that too much German-produced food
was entering illegal channels out of
reach of the industrial workers who
have nothing to trade in the black
market,

And while it must be recognized
that German farmers also have their
troubles, the fact remains that they
were being blamed, and this attitude
of blame was being agitated into
unrest by KPD members. There was
also evidence that the German officials
were hesitant about taking firm action
telative to the control of German-
produced food.

The trade unions demanded more
firmness. If the existing laws did not
permit effective food control, they
demanded that new laws be enacted.
They called for a public program of
searching for hidden stocks of food.
Perhaps the German public officials
needed such demonstrations to goad
them into action, possibly as justi-
fication for action in the emergency.

Whereas the rural-urban rivalry
came. into the open on the economic
issue, the strikes also had a rural-
urban political importance, It was to
be expected that old political rivalries
would come to the fore in mass
demonstrations involving so many
people. However, it is not necessary
here to review the rural-urban politi-
cal implications of the strikes, because
other political implications were
present in a more urgent sense,

Moreover, the political urgency of
the strikes was less concerned with
the issues of government than with
the challenging problem of union
control. Most German union leaders
in the American and British Zones
are defenders of democratic unionism.
Many of the leaders in the western
zones, because of their democratic
convictions, spent years in the Nazi

INFORMATION BULLETIN

activities in Bavaria.

concentration camps. But there is a
Communist minority that is active in
a militant effort to control the German
trade unions. This tribe of comrades
has no interest in democratic unionism
except as a means of gaining power.

The food strikes, which could not
be postponed, were a show-down be-
tween the democratic union leaders
and the Communists for control of the
unions. The democratic leaders came
out stronger, and they were able to
balk the now well-known sabotage
plans of the Communist functionaries.
The Communists suffered defeat, but
their drive for political power in the
ranks of labor goes on.

HEN THE half-million workers

of Wuerttemberg- Baden left
their jobs for the day on February 3,
the union's strike order exempted
workers in hospitals, gas, water, and
electric power plants “and all enter-
prises in which work stoppages would
lead to the loss of food.” The order
observed:

“Even though all astute and clear-
thinking persons know that work
stoppages or strikes do not create or
make available even one additional
gram of fat, one pound of potatoes,
one slice of bread, or one piece of

4

Gustav Schiefer, vice-president of the Bavarian Trade Unions Asso-
ciation, is surrounded by his backers after a speech in Munich last
January in which he criticized food rationing and black market |

(Signal Corps photo)

meat, this protest action has never-
theless been agreed upon. Therefore,
there must still be other reasons”
for it.” 5

There were, of course, the stated
reasons, to force a thorough collection”
and an equitable distribution of food,
There was also the unstated reason;
to save the morale of the workers
and frustrate Communist agitation,
Unrest was increasing. An organized,
disciplined demonstration was decide
upon, Otherwise the unrest might
have broken out in many minor, un-
authorized demonstrations.

It is impossible to know how mud
of a food supply increase the averag
German striker hoped to realize by
the protest. Judging from the placin
of emphasis, it is apparent that the
urgent concern was about the fairness
of distribution. Workers unable to
trade in the black market wi
embittered by the knowledge thal
Germans having goods to trade w
eating better than they.

The “Pantry Law" which result
from the strikes and which is bei
put into force, will doubtless brim
out some food that had been hoard
or is being traded in the black market

Only in a few minor demonstratio
were the strikers actually led by thi

APRIL 20, 194

--- Page 8 ---
Communist elements. These elements
were generally active, but they elected
to stand back. They were loud in
defining the issues, brewing unrest
and stirring up discord.

It is generally known that these pro-
moters of unrest had been encouraged
to believe that the food strikes
would demoralize the workers, that
through the multiplying of strikes the
food deliveries would be interfered
with, and finally a condition of chaos
would prevail.

But the workers remained orderly.
Great numbers gathered for public
demonstrations; 70,000, for example,
met to hear speeches at Munich. Thus
the food issue, pushed by the Com-
munists to the striking point, spent
itself in disciplined demonstrations.

The “wildcat” strikes planned for
by the Communist functionaries during
January and February did not come
to pass. It is understandable why they
later called the strikes “pointless.”

The Protest Demonstration

Te STATE-WIDE 24-hour protest
demonstration of the Bavarian
Trade Union Federation and its affil-
iates on Friday, Jan, 23, was the
largest of the German food strikes of
the winter of 1948. The demonstration,
which involved 1,000,000 workers in
22 cities, was viewed by trade union
leaders as a necessary outlet for re-
lieving the pent-up resentment of the
workers and less damaging to in-
dustrial production than the sporadic
wildcat strikes which were breaking
out throughout the state.

Military Government, appraising the
strike as a protest against German

governmental administration and an

affirmation by labor of its claim to a
more equitable share in the products
of agriculture, did not interfere.

The strike was impressive because
of the workers’ voluntary discipline.
They agreed to keep all plants, or
Portions of plants, operating where a
sudden stoppage would halt production
or injure machinery. For example,
a large rayon plant near Augsburg,

APRIL 20, 1948

EFORE CALLING the strikes, Ger-

man labor leaders were confronted
with. the fact that the workers and
their -families were getting short
rations. There was increasing evidence
that the limited supplies available
were not being efficiently and fairly
distributed. And although the labor
leaders strove to bring about a cor-
rection of such conditions, progress
was slow. The functionaries of revo-
lution, aware of the attempts to
improve the food-handling machinery
worked hard to frustrate these efforts.

Thus the trade union leaders faced
the choice of taking action or risking
the loss of control by attempting to
hold the union locals in line. It was
for them a choice between risks, Not
to take the lead might result in their
leadership being repudiated by a rash
of unauthorized “wildcat” strikes and
leaderless mob demonstrations.

They elected to stage the strikes
and risk the possibility of releasing

By Edward L. Deuss
Chief, Reports and Statistics Branch,
OMGUS

which normally employs 2,100 work-
ers, had 600 on the job the day of the
strike to keep the viscose liquid from
hardening in vats and spindles.

One coal mine was continued in
operation in the Upper Bavarian state-
owned bituminous fields to keep open
the power plant, which provided
electrical energy for all the mines.

Edward L. Deuss based his
article, The Protest Demonstra-
tion in Bavaria, on a volumnious
report of the Bavarian food
strikes which he compiled for
the Manpower Division, OMGUS.
Mr. Deuss was in Bavaria when
the strikes broke out, and much
of his information is first hand.
A former newspaperman, he has
been in Government service
since 1943.

the worker tensions through orderly
actions. Not only did it prove a wise
choice, but the union leaders emerged
stronger than they have been since
the war. The Communist sabotage
program failed and Communist in-
fluence declined noticeably.

Although the sabotage strategy of
the Communists was thrown off
schedule, their objectives to under-
mine industrial revival in western
Germany have not changed. They set
out to make the most of Germany's
food shortage this winter. They will
carry on because they still get some
encouragement out of the fact that
the food shortage continues,

It remains to be seen whether
German labor leaders are able to keep
political climbers out of the German
labor movement, They understand that
the most dangerous of these are the
Communists.

Can the democratic trade union
leaders hold the gains they have
won? The outlook seems favorable.

in Bavaria

Railway men agreed to move trains
coming into Bavaria to their destina-
tions rather than stop them at the
state borders. Skeleton signal crews
remained on the job.

Military and MG installations were
exempted from the strike order as
were gas, water, and electrical plants,
hospitals, press, and security services,
At MG suggestion the telephone serv-
ice also was exempted.

OR THE first time in German

history, 65 to 80 percent of the
German civil servants in Bavaria
joined the “strikers. This included
locomotive engineers, post office em-
ployees, and street car conductors.
Many higher ranking government
civil servants also joined, despite an
announcement by Finance Minister
Kraus that in striking they would be
violating their “oath to the public.”

While the demonstrations did not
result in any immediate tangible gain
to the workers, trade union leaders
reported that subsequently the govern-

(Continued on page 12)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
DEM OCRATIZING

HE FIRST prerequisite in prepar-

ing Germany for democracy is to
free Germany from the bondage of
nazism and of all other totalitarian
systems of government. The United
States has already done this in part
by destroying the outward frame of
the Nazi government. But it is not
enough to destroy this outward form;
it is necessary to uproot the spirit as
well as the structure of totalitarian
government in order to provide for
the healthy growth of a democratic
system which must replace it.

It has never been the policy of US
Military Government to impose upon
the German people institutions and
practices simply because they are
American. Indeed, the United States
is not interested in molding German
life into a specifically American pat-
tern. To force upon the German people
the entire fabric of American govern-
mental and political life would be to
follow the pattern of another major
power which is obviously determined
not only to modify but to change
radically the internal structure and
operation of government to suit its
own national and ideological interests.
Moreover, to follow such a policy
would be to ignore the long history
and the evolution of Germany.

We have recognized that democratic
institutions and practices need not be
uniform the world over, but rather
must reflect the historic development
which the geographic and economic
requirements have imposed on the
people. US Military Government is
interested in the development of the
opportunity of the German people for
freedom and the exercise of demo-
cratic responsibility. Freedom and
democratic responsibility, which go
hand in hand, have to be fostered and
strengthened among this vanquished
people for séme time to come.

But it is not enough for the United
States‘to encourage the Germans to
seize the opportunity to enjoy this

INFORMATION BULLETIN

By Dr. Harold W. Landin
Chief, Democratization Branch,
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS

new freedom and embrace this new
responsibility. The German people
must learn to cherish, defend, and
preserve these objectives. A people to
be democratic must do more than
wish to be democratic. A zeal for
knowing liberty, and a will for achiev-
ing liberty, which are inseparable,

Dr. Harold W. Landin has been
chief of the Democratization
Branch in Berlin since Dec. 15,
1947,

This is his third post with Mili-
tary Government. Previously he
was chief of the Civil Adminis-
tration Division of the Regional
Military Government Detachment
for the Saar-Pfalz-Trier-Coblenz
area, and later chief of CAD in
the Office of Military Govern-
ment, Hesse.

Dr. Landin taught at Smith Col-
lege and Ohio State University
until 1942, when he obtained a
leave of absence to join the staff
of the American Council of Learn-
ed Societies.

must be the dynamic force generated
out of the spirit and passion of the
people.
IKE MOST countries, Germany has
had democratic Jeaders who have
fought against usurpation by arbitrary
and tyrannical governments. And in
this struggle Germany, too, has had
its revolutionary movements. Several
of the German states fought for their
political liberty against the Napoleonic
invasion, but this, of course, was
hardly a democratic struggle of the
German people since a democratic
movement had not yet emerged.
In the spring of 1848, 100 years ago,
a pathetic and ill-conceived revolution
broke out in several of the German

6

states against the existing gove: 1
ments, but the people as a whole,
still under the heels of an aristocrati;
and autocratic authority, were no
aroused to fight for democrati
principles. In May of that year ther
gathered at Frankfurt a parliament
representing for the first time various
elements of German society, but this
ill-fated parliament, though voicin
honest sentiments for the liberalizin
of government, failed to secure the
freedom they talked about.

In October and November, 1918, rev-_
olution again broke out in various
parts of Germany, but here, too, the
failure of the movement was the result
of the inability of large elements of
people to take a bold stand in order
to win and preserve their freedom.
While progress was made in the di-
rection of representative government
during the 19th and 20th centuries, it
would appear that the German people

cept without much question the
authority of government, be it that
a prince or a Nazi fuehrer, an aris!
cratic ruling class or the “Beamte-
dom” of more recent times.
The traditional servility of the Ger-
man people towards their rulers and
their civil servants, as well as the
spirit of arrogance and condescension
on the part of the latter toward the
citizen, made the growth of democra
in Germany slow and difficult, @
growth which the Hitler regime com-
pletely stifled. }

'HILE ON the one hand it
necessary to arouse among
common people a determination t
cherish and defend their civil liberties

servants. Not only the state leg
lature and the mayor but every official
in the German administration must
realize that he is a servant of
people and not their master, that he
is responsible to them and that the

APRIL 20, 194

--- Page 10 ---
tenure of his public service is con-
ditional upon his behavior.

It is obvious that the development
of democratic government must
depend upon the realization of dem-
ocratic relations between the gov-
ernment and the citizen and upon the
understanding of the government and

citizens of their respective spheres
and rights.
Democratic attitudes of German

public officials cannot be inculcated
by orders either of the German
government or Military Government.
The public servant must be convinced
that. living and working in a demo-
cratic organization provides a satis-
faction greater than that experienced
before. He must come to realize for
himself the values of a truly dem-
ocratic civil service as opposed to
the rigid casts system founded at the
time of Frederick the Great.

This recognition of the value and
advantages of democratic procedures
will be quickly reflected from a similar
realization by the individual citizens
of the community. Democratizing the
spirit of the public service and the
cultivation of a vital citizen-govern-
ment relationship are prime-prerequi-
sites of this program.

Democracy is also dependent upon
the behavior and objectives of political
parties which tend to emphasize party
loyalty above all other interests, and
hence tend to ignore democratic pro-
cedure as well as the rights of the
citizens at large. The understanding
of the rights of the citizens in a
democracy was never well developed
in Germany, either from the point of
view of the government's duty to re-
spect and protect the rights, or the
abilitity of the citizen to demand and
enforce them. And, the twelve years
of the Nazi regime have further im-
paired this understanding of civil
rights.

A widespread program of political
teeducation is a vital necessity, and
is peculiarly appropriate in that the
threat from other forms of government
has made the residents of the western
zones conscious of the danger without
educating them how to meet it.

But it might be asked: Why, now
that the Prussian ruling class has been
destroyed and the Prussian state
broken up; now that the great in-

APRIL 20, 1948

dustrial combines have been shattered
and the Nazi Party and its political
machinery crushed—why cannot the
German people rise to the occasion

and rebuild their society on truly
democratic patterns?
The answer lies in the inherent

weakness of the German people. While
naturally the consequences of a total
defeat have given the German people
little to look forward to, there must
be kept alive the will to live, to be a
free people and to assume their re-
sponsibilities in a democratic society.
The expression of democracy is de-
pendent not on the directives of
Military Government but upon the
Germans themselves.

NE OF THE means the German

citizen has at his disposal to
protect himself against the arbitrary
behavior of civil servants and political
leaders is the sentiment and the
organized expression of the communi-
ty itself. In laying the groundwork
for the democratization of German
public life it is necessary to encourage
the German people to assume freer
and more vigorous participation in
the life of the community. The lack

The Medal of Freedom for meritorious service during World War II

of citizens organizations, other than
political and professional groups, re-
flects one of the most serious weak-
nesses in the mentality of the German
people today. This characteristic goes
back far beyond the Nazi regime.

Inherent in the developments of
German bureaucracy during the last
two centuries has been the fear of
authority and the negation of indi-
vidual dignity and of human rights.
Even among liberal circles during the
last 100 years interest has centered
largely on certain structural concepts
rather than social or political eman-
cipation. The arbitrary monarchist
gave way to the arbitrary militarist
and arbitrary public servant. The
fashion changed but the character and
behavior of the government remained
the same. This fact—so evident today
—has been translated into not only
undemocratic public administration,
and the arbitrary and often dictatorial
politics of political parties, but like-
wise into the fear and lethargy of the
citizen.

One important part of the answer
to this problem is the encouragement

(Continued on Page 19)

was presented recently in Berlin to three French citizens (above) by
Brig. Gen William Hesketh, the Assistant Deputy Military Governor,
OMGUS. Standing (left to right) are Madeleine Lansac, Mrs, Jean

J. Chappat, and Mr. Chappat.

7

(Signal Corps photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Curriculum Centers

By Payne Templeton

Chief, Schools Branch, Office of Military
Government, Wuerttemberg-Baden

HE CURRICULUM Center is one

of the most interesting features
of Military Government's attempt to
reorient German education. It might
be described as a research center;
a professional laboratory, providing
a specialized library and a study hall
for prospective writers and research
students.

The Curriculum Center is related
closely to the American Information
Library in that it includes a steadily
growing collection of books and mag-
azines available to Germans, with
the hope of opening to them a new
picture of the world outside. But the
Curriculum Center is under the direct
supervision of the Education and Re-
ligious Affairs Division, and all of
its material pertains to the profession
of education. It seeks to attract per-
sons whose concern is education in
the widest meaning—not only teach-
ers, but those hoping to become
teachers, and also parents and laymen
interested in the schools,

Of the nine centers in the American
Zone, two are in Wuerttemberg-Ba-
den—at Stuttgart and Karlsruhe, and
still another is contemplated for
Heidelberg.

Each Center in Wuerttemberg-Baden
is headed by a succesful teacher with

library experience—an ideal com-
bination,

The Stuttgart Center has gradually
expanded its program, and unusually
good relationships have been cultivat-
ed with German teachers, the Min-
istry of Culture and the German

public.

TS LIBRARY of books, magazines

and related materials consists of
more than 2,500 volumes, including
strictly professional books in such
fields as psychology, teaching methods
and educational philosophy; various
modern textbooks, yearbooks and
other publications of professional
organizations; professional magazines
and papers, pictures and exhibits of
childrens’ school work, pupil news-
Papers and magazines, charts and
other exhibits,

These are mostly American materials
which reflect the democratic character
of education in the United States.
These give the Germans a vivid im-
pression of the development, growth
and progress of American schools.

Much of these materials deal with
problems and trends as well as the
strong differences of viewpoint found
in American education today. German
teachers and students thus can see
that the US schools do not con-
stitute a dictatorial and centralized

A committee of German teachers is shown using reference material
at the Stuttgart Curriculum Center, to plan its instruction in social

sciences,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Signal Corps photo)

8

“Old Look‘ Garments

Please German Buyers

A German textile buyer, who |
went to London to look into an |
offer of 200,000 women's “old —
look” utility garments, telegra-
phed the German press that “old
look” pertained only to the
fashion designers’ current style 1
description.

“The goods are brand new and
in excellent condition,” the buyer,
Oswin Pucklitsch, wired, indicat-
ing that he would recommend
immediate purchase to the Ruhr
district's Coal Mining Manage-
ment on his return to Essen.

system, but enjoy the opportunity of
complex development and organic
growth.
Those who study in the Curriculum —
Centers will understand that one
cannot speak of the American school
or of the American opinion of educa-
tion, but that the great unifying prin-
ciple of democracy underlies each
different concept. 4
They will see that the word “
mocracy” means something very real
to American school people and that
it is a vital principle in school lif
rather than a mere catchword. 1
Other American books discuss the |
specific and scientific problems of
method, testing, grouping of students,
preparation of units of work, tech
niques of reading and problems of
guidance.
The Curriculum Centers also feat
a growing collection of books, mag-
azines, and other materials fr
England, Switzerland and France, and
German professional magazines, |

riculum Centers “would like to
have more photographs and exhibi ts
from actual school life; pictures 0}
American landscapes and _ buildings
exhibits of children's art; copies 6
all textbooks published in other pa
of Germany. Also, they hope to ob
tain additional copies of certain p!
fessional books which have prov
very useful and popular, to loan ot
in “package libraries" to groups
(Continued on page 1%

APRIL 20, 194

--- Page 12 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

President Truman’s Talk to Congress

President Truman's address to Con-
gress, calling for the temporary revival
of the draft and of universal military
training, was prominently displayed
in the German press of the US Zone.
The reactions, however, varied be-
tween the extremes of personal liking
for Mr. Truman to a coolness by some
of the more ardently pacifist papers.

Main-Echo (Aschaffenburg) said:
“President Truman's words are the
clearest rejection of the policies of
the Kremlin that was ever voiced.
They are a warning, backed by the
demand for reintroduction of UMT,
a warning addressed to Russia not to
cross the absolute limits of what the
western world will bear.”

Frankfurter Neue Presse said: “Pres-
ident Truman had the courage to
call a spade a spade, and to demand
measures that have become neces-
sary: namely, that the taxpayer dig
deeply into his pocketbook (though
Mr. Truman knows that this cannot
be of advantage to him personally so
shortly before the elections), and
secondly, conscription. ...

“As sober observers of these facts,
we can only say we have respect for
a man who follows his conscience!”

Muenchener Merkur asked: “Is the
world immediately threatened by war?
The answer to this is ‘no.’ But it
cannot be denied that in America,
too, forces are increasing that no
longer believe in the possibility of
peaceful adjustment of interests with
the Soviet Union ., . The peace of
the world or the infliction of war on
it are up to the present Russian
tulers, They pretend to be determined
Opponents of war.”

Nordsee - Zeitung (Bremerhaven)
warned of a pacifism that ignores the
meaning of power:

“Henry Wallace, third-party can-
didate for US President gave an ex-
ample of this when he opposed UMT
with the argument that ‘a just case
is worth more than a hundred ar-
mies ...' “Justice has kept nobody
Cut of concentration camps and gas
chambers — neither did “justice”

APRIL 20, 1948

protect Petkov, Maniu, and Masaryk
(leaders of Communist opposition in
Bulgaria, Rumania, and Czechoslova-
kia, respectively).

“President Truman has demonstrat-
ed by his speech that unrealistic pac-
ifism that was about to again en-
danger peace has been definitely re-
placed by a realistic one. The lines
of US policy in the future will be
determined not by.... Henry Wallace
but by the very resolute words with
which Truman demanded the safe-
guarding of peace through power.”

“Offenbach-Post" said:

“Time and again the world has had
to listen to usually pretty long
speeches of so-called leading states-
men. But now the man who stands at
the head of the most powerful nation
on earth has spoken with the clear
language of the man in the street,
free from diplomatic double-talk, in
full consciousness of the world-po-
litical. situation...

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
without directly referring to Mr. Tru-
man’s message, said:

“Tt would be vain to try to answer
the question how it is possible that
one talks of a new war while the
wounds of the old one are not yet
healed..... We wanted to learn to
respect our neighbor and his opinion,
to serve peaceful democratic construc-
tion, to free ourselves from feelings
of revenge.... And all that is already

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press,
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not nec-
essarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions,

where are beating the war drums...”

Winfried Martini, in the Ober-
bayerisches Volksblatt (Rosenheim),
said:

“One of the most interesting details
in Mr. Truman's address was the
Passage in which he declared it to be
of decisive importance that the US
occupation troops stay in Germany
‘until the peace of Europe is assured.’
So the original purpose of the occu-
pation seems to be considerably en-
larged if not actually changed. That
may be favorable to us in a way but
is not without disquieting aspects...”

Leftist Germans

Frankfurter Rundschau argued against
leftist Germans who oppose the Mar-
shall Plan:

“It is a hopeless illusion to believe
that we can get out of our rut without
foreign aid . . . No political propa-
ganda will ever be able to convince
us that the Marshall Plan is anything
but the sole way to normalization of
life in Germany .. ."

“After our experiences under Hitler,
an austere life without terror seems
more worth while to us than a life
that promises economic security with-
out personal liberty.”

“Most Hated Man”

Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augs-
burg) called Gen. Walter von Unruh
“the most hated man of the last years
of the war.” It was the task of this
“ambitious officer who was fanat-
ically devoted to Hitler's ideology”
to travel from_town to town in his
elegant private train and to press the
sickly and “indispensable,” who had
escaped the draft, into the Army:

“When a hospital physician said:
‘Please, Herr General, may I call your
attention to the fact that this man still
has an open stomach ulcer’ he was
told: ‘The fellow looks as if he could
pull out trees; do you perhaps want
to sabotage the orders of the Fuehrer?’

“Those were the methods of Unruh.
. .. Now he will have to stand trial

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
before the special Spruchkammer in
Neustadt. Former soldiers and tens
of thousands of women and children,
who through him have lost their sons,
husbands or fathers, are of the opinion
that he should face a war crimes
tribunal instead of a Spruchkammer.”

Bavaria’s Food

Isar Post (Landshut) reported on a
meeting that the Director of the Office
of Military Government, Bavaria,
Murray van Wagoner, held in Passau
with mayors and country heads:

“The Germans present could not
fail to gain the impression that the
MG Director and his Agriculture Chief
are most earnestly concerned about
safeguarding the Bavarian people's
food supply...”

“We welcome this new way of
direct and unbureaucratic information
and hope that similar exchanges of
opinion will soon take place in other
parts of Bavaria.”

“‘Friendship” Food

Fritz Dietz, licensee of Fraenkische
Nachrichten (Tauberbischofsheim) com-
mented on the arrival in Bremen of
the Gretna Victory, loaded with 3,000
tons of “Friendship” food and clothing
from four Pacific states and the terri-
tory of Alaska, for the Germans:

“There is nothing official, nothing
political in the ship's arrival. Behind
its trip stands pure humaneness.
Children, mothers, workers some of
whose gifts meant a sacrifice on their
part, contributed in the States of
Idaho, Washington, Montana, Oregon,
and the Territory of Alaska the cargo
being unloaded in Bremen, Their
friendship, their Christian love also
comes with it, and builds a bridge
across the ocean...”

The reporter of the Sueddeutsche
Allgemeine Zeitung (Pforzheim) im-
pressed by the only American woman
who accompanied the Friendship Train
on its tour of the US, British and
French zones, said:

“Mrs, Otis F. Lampson (representing
the State of Washington) speaks a
delightful American German... The
eyes of this gray-haired woman radiate
a boundless feeling of human fellow-
ship ... She tells us, not without just
pride, how the collection scheme over

INFORMATION BULLETIN

there was organized. (Mrs, Lampson
said):

“The idea to call for a_ special
voluntary gift for Germany came from
a Jew. Press and radio immediately
chimed in. The success was immense,
People from all strata in the Pacific
states brought considerable quantities
of food, clothing and money. Forty
trucks of a transport company drove
for weeks through the states, and six
railroad companies contributed the
use of freight cars ... The long--
shoremen volunteered their labor...
We thought especially of the children;
we want the German children to learn
to laugh again. We want to live in
friendship with Germans.’”

German Democracy

Nordsee
asked:

“1, Can the Western Allies insist on
staying in Berlin even when the
(Soviet) blockade of the Control Coun-
cil becomes a blockade of Berlin. . .?”

“2. Can courageous men of the type
of Jacob Kaiser, who in his daily “Der
Tag” deals with those who ran away
from their own lines—can the de-
fenders of ‘fortress Berlin’ withstand
the increasing pressure from the East?”

“On the answer to these questions
depends the fate of Berlin, And Berlin,

Zeitung (Bremerhaven)

power governing body of Berlin.

10

Col. Frank L. Howley (right), diréctor of the Office of Military Govern- —
ment, Berlin Sector, and US representative on the Allied Kommanda-
tura, is interviewed by Spero Galanopulo, news commentator for AFN —
Berlin. Col. Howley discussed the Kommandatura, which is the four- —

though it is no longer the capital
Germany, is nevertheless the capif
of the German democratic will, a
that is much more conscious here than
elsewhere, precisely because being
democratic in Berlin means being in
danger.”

Badische Neueste Nachrichten (Karls-
tuhe) said that the headquarters of

i
A

the Western Allies in Berlin are com.
parable to ‘advanced observation
posts'—as one called positions whi
permitted a good view of parts of the
enemy front and from where artillery

fire was directed.”

to carry out the transfer of the US
occupied area to the State Department
has strongly underlined the repeated
unequivocal declarations of General _
Clay (the US Military Governor) that
Berlin will not be surrendered. It is
not only a question of ‘observation,
but of the prestige of the US; it is no 4
Berlin that is at stake, but Europe,

Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber- —
bischofsheim) commented on Genera
Clay's words, about the readiness of ©
strong forces in Germany to fight and
die for freedom and democracy: &

“In Germany there exists today
neither a democracy in the full mean-

(Signal Corps)

APRIL 20, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
ing of the word nor yet an irrespon-
sible desire for it... No future
attempt for making democrats out of
the Germans should base itself on the
doubtful hypothesis that they want
democracy at any price... More im-
portant is the problem how the love
of liberty of the Germans could be

strengthened... We need aside from
material assistance a little bit of con-
fidence.

“And on account of this, General
Clay's words have a_ significence
which has been overlooked: it is an
expression of such confidence, And it
is up to the Germans to show our-
selves worthy of this confidence—in
spite of all doubts.”

US and Palestine

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) said
that the United States reserved its
attitude towards Palestine due to the
disagreeable prospect of seeing Rus-
sian troops south of the Dardanelles
and of seeing the Arabian oil district
turned into a field of battle... .

"It is important for the United
States to retain the Arabs as friends
in the anti-Communist front—sad as
this is for the Jews... Most im-
portant is the fact that the United
States is today rejecting compromises
which . .. it not so long ago was
glad to wrest from the Soviet Union,
regarding them as political gains. It
is obvious that since Prague the time
for compromise is past.”

Return of Trieste

Muenchener Merkur welcomed
Western initiative proposing the re-
turn of Trieste to Italy “as the first
and welcome step on the road towards
a revision of the peace treaty...
A revision of the faulty and econom-
ically unsupportable regulations has
been foreseen from the beginning.
With the return of Trieste to Italy,
a development has been started that
will not be limited to Italy alone...
It is quite possible that also other
treaties will be reviewed..."

Press Objectivity

Ludwig Lewy, editor of the Giesse-
her Freie Presse, commented on the
Statement by a Hesse SPD functionary

APRIL 20, 1948

Mrs. Frank Devereux (left) and Mrs. Johnston Avery, both of the Ameri-
can Women's Club of Berlin, fit clothing on German children. The clothes

were donated by a large US mail order house.

who declared he had “lost confidence
in the objectivity of the press” be-
cause he found that press reports on
a local SPD meeting (from which the
press was excluded) had been in-
sufficient.

Lewy declared that this is by no
means a solitary instance, but “that the
parties have found our non-partisan
objectivity unwanted and also un-
desirable, because ... (we won't hide)
disreputable situations that (a party
press) would silently tolerate for the
sake of political expediency.”

Offenbach Post said in an article
on the numerous attacks on the
licensed press in Hesse:

“Recently we carried excerpts of
US press comment. In one of them
the Chicago Tribune said of President
Truman that he is the most ridiculous,
most incompetent President the United
States ever had. Mr. Truman would
never dream of suing the paper; but
if we—with the most friendly in-
tentions—tell about the mayor of a
little neigboring town who has so
much to do that he sometimes does
not find time to shave, we get a
detailed, circumstantial letter, two
pages long, and a threat of a com-

11

(Signal Corps)

plaint to be
authorities.’

Yet, many a good burgher of the
said little town will have stroked his
prickly chin with satisfaction; he feels
he has something in common with his
mayor. Apparently we have lost our
sense of humor—or didn't we ever
have one?”

lodged with ‘higher

Bizonal Wares in Milan

One hundred firms of the British
and American Zones will exhibit their
products at the international fair at
Milan, Italy, from April 29 to May 16,
according to the Hessian foreign trade
office. a]

The firms have been selected from
a list submitted to the Joint Export-
Import Agency by the Bizonal
Economic Department, and comprise,
for the greater part, steel product,
chemical, and optical industry firms.
Export contracts may be concluded
directly, subject to JEIA approval.

Another announcement said firms of
the bizonal area will participate in
the international fair at Stockholm,
Sweden, in late August.

—ICD News of Germany

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
(Continued from page 5)
Protest Demonstration

ment took a much more conciliatory
attitude toward the union's food
proposals. Bavaria’s Minister Presi-
dent, Dr. Hans Ehard, announced
publicly that “the general situation
will be discussed in the Food Com-
mittee of the state legislature in the
coming weeks. A program containing
practical measures will be prepared
jointly by the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture, the Farmers’ League, and
the Trade Unions, and this program
will be executed with the full support
of the government.”

HE SPARK which set off the dem-

onstration was the much pub-
licized “corn and chicken food” speech
of Dr. Johannes Semler (CSU), then
the director of the German Bizonal
Department for Economics. He spoke
at a conference of the State Executive
Committee of the Christian Social
Union at Erlangen, Bavaria, on Jan-
uary 4.

Semler, who was deposed by the US
and British Military Governors after
an investigation of his remarks, said
in part:

“.,. What has been done for us? Im-
ports which we could have obtained
we unfortunately were not allowed to
buy. We are given corn and chicken
feed for which we will have to pay
high prices. It will not be a gift. We
will pay in dollars with German labor
and German exports, and in addition
we are asked to say ‘thank you.’ It
is high time that German politicians
refrain from giving thanks for these
supplementary food imports.”

Semler's speech met with a tumul-
tuous ovation. No member of the
Bavarian cabinet in the audience rais-
ed an objection. On newspaper publi-
cation the speech had a profound
effect on the poeple. Efforts to publi-
cize the fact that German authorities
failed to force the farmers to disgorge
meat, fats, and potatoes only added
to the people's general bewilderment.

In this connection, Murray D. Van
Wagoner, MG Director for Bavaria,
said on Jan. 6 in a letter to the
minister president that 1,440,000 pigs
had disappeared in Bavaria during
1947, with a loss to the legal market
of 36,000 tons of pork which would

INFORMATION BULLETIN

to black marketeers.

have sufficed to give every normal
consumer in the state two pounds
monthly for one year. Another MG
spokesman announced that two-thirds
of all pigs slaughtered in Bavaria
during 1947 had been killed illegally
and sold on the black market. In a
subsequent letter to the Bavarien
government, Van Wagoner affirmed
that 235,0000 head of cattle, or 19 per-
cent of those legally accounted for in
the state in 1947, had “disappeared.”

The first public protest against
Semlers speech came from George
Reuter (SPD), Secretary General of
the Bavarian Trade Union Federation,
and a member of the Bizonal Eco-
nomic Council and the Executive
Committee of the Bavarian SPD. Reu-
ter, in a public statement, said: “He
(Dr. Semler) who speaks so irrespon-
sibly about the help that citizens of
the United States have given us for-
feits the right to represent the eco-
nomic administration of the combined
zones.”

The chairman of the Bavarian SPD,
Waldemar von Knoeringen, declared
that Dr. Semler's charges were “ir-
responsible.”

Dr. Joseph Baumgartner, former
Bavarian Minister of Food and Agri-
culture, said Dr. Semler’s speech con-
tained many errors of fact in regard
to agricultural policy. The food supply

12

Union members in Munich displayed posters during a one-day food
protest demonstration last January. One of the posters called for death

(Signal Corps photo)

would have collapsed 18 months ago
without food imports from the United
States, he stated.

A meeting of works councils chair-
men was held in Munich at which
Reuter explained his stand to the
1,200 men present. He characterized
Semler’s speech as election prop-
aganda, (The CSU of which Semler”
is a member, is Bavaria’s agricultural
party.) The meeting approved Reuter’s ©
stand,

The SPD sought in the Bavarian
legislature on Jan, 16 to establis!
whether the CSU government approv:
ed Dr. Semler’s speech, and if the
cabinet accepted Dr. Semler's asser
tions as reflecting its own views. Dr.
Ehard replied that the government
had no authority over Dr. Semler,
hence was not in a position to express”
an opinion. q

EANWHILE, confusion over the

food situation increased.
new year had begun with rumors
the supplements to the normal ¢
sumer’s rations, issued to five cate=
gories of manual workers, would b
reduced by approximately 15 perc
in the 110th ration period beginnim
January 5. Such a reduction had
actually been ordered by the Bizon il
Food and Agriculture Executive Com-
mittee, but was rescinded December 29:

Military Government and Germal
officials agree that the reversal of th

APRIL 20, 194

--- Page 16 ---
decision to reduce supplements was
not adequately publicized by the
Ministry of Food. During the first four
days of the 110th ration period the
workers could not buy all the supple-
mentary food they had been promised,
and offiicial assurances failed to allay
the suspicion that their extra food
would be curtailed.

Wildcat strikes broke out in several
cities. 8,000 workers in Munich ceased
work on Jan.7, only resuming after
the Minister of Agriculture pledged
that all rations would be met. In In-
golstadt, the same day, 3,000 railway
repair shop workers refused to work.
On Jan. 9, about 4,000 workers.of the
municipal street railways walked off
their jobs in defiance of their trade
union leaders and works councils, and
several hundred office workers in
Munich banks, insurance companies,
and wholesale trade firms ceased
work for the remainder of the day out
of sympathy for the trolly men.

In Nuremberg on Jan. 7, 8, and 9,
about 6,000 workers participated in a
series of sporadic work stoppages to
hold protest meetings in the shops
against rumored reductions in food
trations. Four large plants were affected.

A decision by the Ministry of Food
and Agriculture in the Bizonal Area
to issue no fat during the second half
of the 110th ration period, but to sub-
stitute a double amount of sugar, was
accepted by the Bavarian government.
However, even before official con-
firmation of this action a second wave
of “wildcat” strikes broke out.

HE EXECUTIVE Board and Exe-

cutive Committee of the Bavarian
Trade Union Federation met on Jan. 17
in Munich and decided to give the
government a last chance to pledge
effective measures for a more thorough
collection and better distribution of
foodstuffs. The federation demanded
total control of the entire food pro-
duction; total control of all manu-
factured goods for every-day use; fair
distribution of the controlled food
Stuffs and consumer goods under
Tesponsible consumer supervision;
immediate closing of all luxury res-
taurants, and severe punishment for
black marketeers.

The Bavarian government's reply to
the trade union ultimatum was read

APRIL 20, 1948

Passage of laws carrying sen-
tences ranging up to death for
black marketeers and hoarders
of manufactured goods were
demanded by approximately
3,000 works councillors at a
meeting Jan. 15 in Nuremberg,

The councillors also demanded
severe punishment for German
government officials who failed
lo enforce food laws, and cre-
ation of inspection committees
to ferret out hoarded goods in
factories and on farms.

over Radio Munich on Jan. 19. Trade
Unionists were offended, since no
copy was Officially delivered to their
leaders.

The reply afforded them no satis-
faction. It denied inactivity on the
part of the Bavarian government and
enumerated measures taken or con-
templated to maintain the ration. The
government could not “submit to an
ultimatum,” the reply stated, but
would welcome cooperation of the
trade unions and other groups in try-
ing to solve current problems.

The Nuremberg district committee
of the Bavarian Metal Workers’ Union
called an open-air meeting on Jan. 21
to protest the inadequacy of the
government answer. Thirty thousand
persons gathered in the main market
square, some carrying posters inscrib-
ed: “No Eats No Work;" “We De-
mand the Resignation of the Bavarian
Government,” and “We Want a United
Germany.” The orderly crowd adopted
several resolutions which included a
demand for the government's resig-
nation.

RADE UNION leaders felt that the

rising dissatisfaction of the work-
ers demanded united action. The Fede-
ration Executive in Munich drafted a
reply to the government's radio-public-
ized communication, reiterating the
charge that “huge quantities” of food-
stuffs were pouring from the farms
into the black market. The trade
unions, they said, could cooperate
with the government in solving the
food crisis only if their proposals

13

were not merely heard, but also given
consideration,

A decision to call the general pro-
test demonstration then was made,
24 votes against 2. The two dissenters
were CSU members.

The walkout was set for the next
day and publicized as extensively as
possible. Because of communications
difficulties, however, many workers
did not hear of the decision until they
were told at the gates of their factories
the next morning. Orderly mass meet-
ings were held in most of the big
cities.

The Bavarian government, impress-
ed apparently by the workers’ display
of solidarity, responded with promises
of cooperation,

Germans Are Advised
To Be Thankful to US

“One should thank the Americans
on one’s knees for staying here, be-
cause otherwise others would come
whom we don't like to see,” Dr. Josef
Baumgartner, former Bavarian food
minister, told the first mass rally of
the Bavarian Party in Lower Bavaria.

The policy of the Bavarian Party,
which he recently joined, the ex-
minister said, was European and not
purely Bavarian, Baumgartner an-
nounced that the party would fight
against the so-called “Reich Parties”
and would found state and local level
parties in other parts of Germany.

He disclaimed any hatred of the
Prussians and said that every efficient
non-Bavarian would be welcomed,
provided he would stand by Bavaria.
ICD's News of Germany.

Churchmen Cooperate

In an effort to produce greater co-
operation between the two churches,
leading Catholic and _ Protestant
churchmen initiated a program de-
signed to present a united church
front in Hesse.

Representing almost 3,000,000 Hes-
sians, the churchmen reached agree-
ment on a common policy regarding
the place of church and state, land
reform, pastoral care in prisons, state
subsidies, and denazification.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
EMOCRATICALLY - constituted

and popularly-responsible law-
making bodies are an integral part
of a democratic form of government.
In the US Zone such law-making
bodies have been established at three
levels of government; the local level,
the state level, and in a limited sense
the zonal level. In combination with
the British Zone, a fourth law-making
body, the Bizonal Economic Council,
has been created to function in the
economic fields affecting the two
zones.

Because of the great number of
local legislatures and their limited
authority, no systematic Military
Government review has been con-
ducted of their activities, and hence
no adequate data is available for the
past year on which to base a general
review of the legislative activity of
such local bodies. This report will
therefore deal primarily with the
work of state government and, in
somewhat lesser detail, the Council of
States and the Economic Council.

Within each state in the US area of
control there is a state legislature
elected every four years, which car-
ries out its mandate under state
constitutions ratified by the voters
in the southern states in November,
1946, and by the voters of Bremen in
October, 1947. These legislatures are
all unicameral bodies, with the ex-
ception of Bavaria, which has a
second chamber called the senate.
All of the US Zone states have a
parliamentary form of government
with a somewhat stronger executive
in Bavaria than in the other states.

Consistent with normal practice in
the parliamentary form of government,
the executive branch minister presi-
dent and cabinet actually drafts and
prepares most of the bills to be con-
sidered by the legislature.

Although individual members
of the legislature have the power
to introduce bills on their own,
in practice almost no use is

INFORMATION BULLETIN

AWS acnah

made of this power. While the cabinet
has primary responsibility for prepar-
ing the bill for carrying out its
policies, each of the state legis-
latures has created eight to 10
standing committees to study these
and other bills. Bills are normaily
referred to these committees after
their first reading.

INCE THE inauguration of the state
legislature, a pattern of continuous
session with short recesses from time
to time has become established. In
the past year, they have met for

How Laws Are Made was ab-
stracted from German Govern-
mental Organization and Civil
Administration, a cumulative
review prepared by the Civil
Administration Division as part
of the Report No. 30 of the
Military Governor.

periods ranging from a few days to
several weeks.

When the first democratically-
elected state legislatures met in De-
cember, 1946, they faced a tremendous
job. To begin with, they had to
select a minister president and then
to ratify his government. They had to
constitute themselves as legislative
bodies, adopt rules of procedure, and
form standing committees. Their
legislative dockets were lengthy, for
in addition to considering a number
of bills designed to cope with a
series of postwar economic and
social problems, they had to consider
basic bills designed to implement the
general provisions of the newly-
adopted constitutions.

Some of the bills necessary to
implement the constitution were
concerned with the completion of the
structure of the government itself,
such as that establishing a constitu-
tional court.

14

The US Zone Council of States
initiates legislation on those nor
economic subjects which req
zonal uniformity, and the Econo!
Council legislates on economic n
ters that affect more than one stat

The Control Council had, of cow
adopted a number of laws for all
Germany, and US Military Govern-
ment had issued a number of laws
in fields where it had particular oc
cupation objectives. The state leg
latures, therefore, had to find their
appropriate, but basic, place in thi
hierarchy of law-making agencies,

Moreover many of the state legis-
lators were new to their task. It had
been 13 years since such a demo-
cratically-elected legislature
functioned in the states and the
were only a relatively few men who
had .had previous experience
representatives in a legislative body
In view of these factors, it is hardly
surprising that the record of the state
legislatures has not been impressive

During the period between -
cember, 1946—when the state legis-
latures first went into session, and
August-September, 1947, when they
each recessed for a little more than a
month—the Hesse legislature passe
only 40 laws; the Wuerttemberg
Baden legislature, 23; the Bremen,
and the Bavarian, 19.

MONG THESE were which

plemented the structure of
government as provided for in Wl
state constitutions, such as la
establishing the constitutional courts,
the third branch of the governm
Wuerttemberg-Baden passed a
stitutional court law in May, 19
(the law subsequently was suspen
by Military Government because
among other things, it did not provide
the right of appeal by individuals t
the highest court in civil right
questions); Bavaria in June of th
same year, and Hesse in December,
1947, Bremen‘s constitution has bee!

APRIL 20, 1

--- Page 18 ---
too recent to permit such legislation

as yet.
The critical field of local govern-
mental structure, one in which

Military Government has a vital
concern because of its policy of local
autonomy and decentralization, is not
included in the record of legislation
passed by the state legislatures.
Legislative bills on this vital matter
are in the process of being drafted
but as yet have not come up for
legislative action,

In connection with laws implement-
ing constitutional provisions, both the
Hessian and Bavarian legislatures
have passed legislation on sociali-
zation. Hesse’s law provides for the
appointment of state trustees as
directors for the rather limited
number of enterprises which are to
become public-owned under the
Hesse constitution; Bavaria's Jaw
provides for the creation of a com-
mission which is to investigate and
prepare recommendations for the
legislature on enterprises that could
be socialized “if consideration of the
general good requires it.”

EVERAL of the laws enacted by

the state legislatures have been
on subjects common to all, although
the laws themselves have not been
uniform, These laws include compen-
sation of legislative members, bud-
gets, and special assistance and
dispensations to physically-disabled
persons, victims of fascism, and ex-
pellees and refugees.

Other enacted laws deal with
critical economic problems prevalent
in each of the states, Laws, for
example, have been passed to impose
stiff fines or penalties for crimes
against the public economy and to
tighten distribution controls over
Scarce commodities, Bills have also
been passed to effect financial adjust-
ments resulting from postwar dis-
locations and to equalize revenues
between state and local government.

The form of Military Government's
teview of state legislation underwent
a marked change with the adoption
Of the state constitutions and the
establishment of democratically-
elected state legislatures late in 1946,
Prior to that time the various German
State governments had been acting
under powers granted to them by
Military Government and therefore,

APRIL 20, 1948

when a state government wished to
enact a law, it had to obtain the prior
approval of Military Government.
This situation was changed when the
constitutions were adopted which
provided for a delegation of powers
from the people to a government
composed of elected representatives.

AWS PASSED by a state legis-

lature under a _ constitutional
grant of powers derived from the
people did not base their authority
upon Military Government. In view
of this, Military Government drop-
ped its requirement for prior approval
of state-enacted legislation. Military
Government did, however, reserve
to itself the right to suspend or
nullify legislation when such legis-
lation was in conflict with quadri-
partite legislation, international
agreements to which the United
States was a party, or those powers
reserved to Military Government in
order to effectuate the basic policies
of the occupation.

Each state Military Government
office maintains close liaison with the
state legislature. This liaison serves

to keep Military Government abreast
of developments within the legislature
and to provide a means of advice and
consultation to the Germans when
they desire it. But Military Govern-
ment has been careful to refrain from
attempting to dictate policies to the
German legislators while a bill is
under consideration. Such  inter-
ference would obviously interrupt the
normal legislative process and stul-
tify the democratic forces at .work
within the state legislature.

When a bill has been enacted hy
the state legislature it is formaily
transmitted to Military Government,
which reviews it in light of its
policies. Only in rare cases, however,
has Military Government suspended
or nullified German state legislation,
and only in those cases where funda-
mental principles of democracy were
violated or conflicts existed with
Control Council legislation,

'HILE THE legislative activities
of the US Zone Council of
States decreased with the establish-
ment of democratically-elected legis-
latures in the states, and the creation

Richard Hildebrandt, former SS general, stands in court at Nuremberg to
hear a 25-year sentence pronounced upon him for war crimes and crimes
against humanity. Fritz Schwalm (seated, left), former SS _lieutenant-
colonel, received a 10-year prison sentence. Hoffmann (right) was sen-

tenced to 25 years.

15

(Signal Corps)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
of an Economic Council for the Bi-
zonal Area, the Council of States
nonetheless has continued to perform
an important and useful legislative
role during the past year. Its legis-
lative procedures have, however,
undergone some important changes
during this time.

One of the original purposes of ihe
Council of States was to draft laws
on subjects which required zonal
uniformity. Once the Council of
States—consisting of the three minis-
ters president of the southern states
and the president of the Bremen
Senate—agreed on a law, they re-
commended it to Military Govern-
ment for approval. Upon approval by
Military Government, each minister
president acting under the decree-
making powers, vested in him by
Military Government, enacted and
promulgated the law in his state.

The Council of States as such has
never had the authority to promul-
gate laws; this was always done by
each minister president promulgating
the identical law in his state. With
the adoption of the constitutions, the
ministers president in the states lost
their decree-making power as they
became subject to the powers and
authorities given them by the consti-
tution and the legislature.

This development deprived the
Council of States of the legal power
by which its laws could be promul-
gated, Military Government Pro-
clamation No, 4 remedied this legal
gap by granting to each minister
president (and the president of the
Bremen Senate) a limited power on
promulgating laws—Council of States-
initiated laws—without reference to
the state legislatures but with the
requirement of prior Military Govern-
ment approval,

The Council of States, in turn, took
an important step towards adjusting
its legislative procedures to the
present status of democratic govern-
ment in the US Zone by establishing
a parliamentary advisory council at
the seat of the Council in order to
provide parliamentary representation
and to promote necessary coordination
of state legislation.

The parliamentary council, which is
composed of 24 members (seven each
from Bavaria, Hesse, and Wuerttein-
berg-Baden, and three from Bremen)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

in effect concurs on all draft laws
to be submitted by the Council of
States to Military Government for
approval.

HE POLICY and procedures for

the initiation and enactment of
uniform legislation in the US Zone
have been clearly defined in the past
year. In disposing of draft legislation,
the Council of States has applied
three basic considerations:
1. Necessity for zonal uniformity
of legislation because of the nature
of subject matter or to assure
successful application.
2. Desirability of coordinated (but
not necessarily uniform) state legis-
lation in order to preserve legal unity.
3. Determination to restrict zonal
legislation to a minimum in order to
guard against encroachment upon
state rights.

Accordingly, if the Council of
States by unanimous vote considers
zonal uniformity of legislation nec-
essary and agrees on a text, a uniform
draft is submitted to Military Govern-
ment for approval and, if approved,
promulgated by each minister presi-
dent in his respective state on the
basis of Military Government Pro-
clamation No. 2, as amended by
Military Government Proclamation
No. 4.

If coordination of legislation is
considered desirable (without the
necessity of uniformity), the Council
agrees on a _ coordinated draft

16

German workmen in Berlin unload sacks of potatoes from a barge for F
distribution among the population in the US Sector. The potatoes, a
donation from the United States, arrived in excellent condition.

(although uot necessarily on one
draft) which is then referred to the
state parliaments with a recom-
mendation for enactment under the
state constitutions, q
As many laws initiated in the past
by the Council of States no longer —
require zonal uniformity, they may
now be individually amended by the
state legislatures. There are, however,
certain, Council-initiated laws which
continue to require zonal uniformity —
and which in the future can only be
changed by Council action. 4
The Council recommended a list of
such laws to Military Government,
which in turn approved it. The list
includes: Se
Law for Liberation from National —
Socialism and Militarism. Law con-
cerning Judicial Aid for Equitable
Settlement to Contracts. J
First Law for the Amendment of the
1946 Code on Administration of Cri-
minal Justice. 7
Law on Acquisition of Land for
Settlement Purposes and Land Reform,
Supplementary ordinance concern-—
ing Provisional Regulation of Un-—
employment Compensation for the
Winter 1946-47. j
Law concerning Payment of Benefits
to Physically Disabled Persons.
Expelle law.

Housing law. E
Law on Establishment of a Special
Fund for Measures of Restitution.

Law on Recision and Amendment

a

(Signal Corps)

APRIL 20, 19

--- Page 20 ---
of Regulation Governing Social Insur-
ance,

Like the Council of States, the
Bizonal Economic Council derives
its powers from the US/UK Military
Governments rather than by a con-
stitutional grant from the people.
Ordinances passed by the Economic
Council must therefore have the prior
approval of the joint Military Govern-
ments before they can become legally
effective. Ordinances so approved are
promulgated by the Council in its
own gazette and are legally binding
upon the population of the two zones.

The total number of ordinances
adopted by the Council to date has
been small—22 in all. While this figure
is disappointing, it must be remember-
ed that the Economic Council did not
become a “going concern” until July
or August, 1947,

NE OF the Economic Council's first
pieces of basic legislation provid-
ed for the transfer of functions and
powers formerly held by the old exe-
cutive joint committees, under the
previous bizonal organization, to the
new Bizonal Executive Committee and
the executive directors established by
the new bizonal organization.

Most of the subsequent ordinances
which have been adopted have con-
cerned themselves with the solution
of particularly pressing economic
problems, as, for example, the ordi-
nances to help effect the control of
farm deliveries through the public
posting of delivery quotas, to insure
the meat and potato supply for the
current economic year, to take emer-
gency measures in the field of
electric power and long-distance gas
supply.

Ordinances enacted by the Economic
Council are transmitted to the Bi-
partite Control Office which prepares
comments for use by the Bipartite
Board when it takes the ordinances
under consideration. Implementing re-
gulations: issued by an agency of the
Economic Council are acted upon by
the Bipartite Control Office without
reference to the Bipartite Board.

Import of Foodstuffs

Bizonal Area imports of foodstuffs
for January totaled 308,741 metric
tons,

APRIL 20, 1948

Political Terrorism in Berlin

Charging that certain political mi-
norities were employing political ter-
rorism, Col. Frank L. Howley, director
of the Office of Military Government,
US Sector of Berlin, said Military Gov-
ernment was ready at any time to
take steps to assure the democratic
rights of the Berlin people.

He said a small political group was
again attempting to lead the German
people to destruction, using the same
police state measures the Germans
recognized during the Hitler period.

Advising Berliners to differentiate
between right and wrong, he said the
political situation was extremely
serious. For several weeks, measures
of force have been used against the
free and democratic parties in the
Soviet Sector, including such extremes
as economic reprisals against in-
dividuals, he declared.

Terroristic political discrimination,
obvious distortion of facts and in-
timidation used by this group, he
continued, are a confession of its
failure.

The Colonel said he was convinced
that the major part of the Berlin
population saw through the unscrupu-
lous intentions and aims of this group
and would judge and act accordingly.

Differentiating between political
terrorism in the Soviet Sector and the
searches of several US Sector offices
of the Socialist Unity party, Howley
said the latter were legally justified
and did not violate the freedom of
political parties granted by the Allied
Kommandantur.

Because Control Council Directive
No. 40 had been violated by publica-
tion of the Communist booklet,
“Gangsters at Work," he said, the US
investigators wanted to photograph
the booklet and certain other docu-
ments for further investigation.

The investigations had already
proved a definite campaign by the
SED and its associated organizations
against US Military Government, and
the United States population, he said.

(ICD news of Germany)

US Buyer Places Order in His Former Firm

An American businessman returned
recently to the camera firm he found-
ed 27 years ago in Wiesbaden, and
placed an export order with it for
$ 185,000 worth of candid-type cameras.

Henry Wirgin, of New York City,
founded what is now called the Adox
Camera Company in 1921 under the
firm name of Wirgin Brothers. In 1938
he was forced by the Nazis to leave
Germany, and in 1941, after spending
three years in Poland, Switzerland,
and Cuba, went to New York city
where he started a camera specialty
company. During World War II he
manufactured optics for US Army
bomb sights.

Upon his return to Hesse, Mr. Wir-
gin contacted the Hesse Branch of the
Joint Export/Import Agency for the
purpose of purchasing candid-type
cameras for sale in the United States.
By a coincidence his old firm, operat-
ing under a Hesse custodian appointed
by the OMGH Property Control Di-
vision, was able to fulfill his needs.

17

Mr. Wirgin said he has already filed
a claim with the Internal Restitutions
Branch of Property Control for the
recovery of the plant.

tie SS
Henry Wirgin (left) signs an order
for $185,000 with the Wiesbaden
camera firm which he founded in 1921.
Looking on is Julian A. Hillman,
Hesse branch chief of JEIA.
(photo credit)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
(Continued from page 8)
Curriculum Centers

teachers throughout Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

German readers—teachers, school
administrators, students, parents, in-
terested laymen—are encouraged to
study, to compare, to choose the best
ideas, to become familiar with modern
education trends and developments,
and to apply all of this to their own
schoolroom practice, Thus the or-
dinary classroom teacher can play a
part in the reorientation of German
schools. The German teacher can learn
to plan for himself without waiting
for instructions from above, helping
in the creation of a new and flexible
curriculum, and perhaps assisting. in
the writing of a new textbook.

Special efforts have been made to
win the interest and coope:ation of
the personnel of the Ministry of Cul-
ture inWuerttemberg-Baden, especially
those concerned with the making of
new curricula, or with the preparation
of new textbooks, At the invitation
of the Ministry, the director of the
Stuttgart Curriculum Center will par-
ticipate in the in-service training
courses held regularly for German
teachers at the Comburg, a castle near
Schwaebisch Hall. He will acquaint the
teachers with the services of the
Curriculum Centers.

Bi-weekly discussions of profes-
sional topics are held regularly at the
Stuttgart Curriculum Center for
teachers and laymen.

The Stuttgart Center recently mov-
ed in with the American Information
Library, where there will eventually
be more room and more opportunity
for service, but the Center will retain
its close connection with the Educa-
tion and Religious Affairs Division,
OMGWB,

An expanded program will be in
operation shortly. A feature of this
program will be an overt publication
to be sent out to teachers and in-
terested laymen. The journal will in-
clude Military Government announce-
ments, reprints from American mag-
azines, educational news notes, con-
tributions from progressive German
teachers, and reviews of books and
magazines articles.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A group of editors is greeted by Brig. Gen. William Hesketh upon arrival
at Tempelhof Airport, Berlin, on one leg of their tour of Germany. The
group (left to right): Mr. Dowdal Davis, of the Kansas City Call; Gen.
Hesketh; Mr. Thomas W. Young, of the Norfolk (Va.) Journal and Guide;
Mr. Carter Wesley, of the Houston Defender, and Mr. Frank L. Stanley,

of the Louisville Defender.

(OMGUS PIO)

School Reform in Hesse Outlined

The day when advanced education
was considered the special privilege
of the socially and economically elite
is past in Hesse, an MG spokesman
said in a German-language program
broadcast to the people of Hesse over
Radio Frankfurt.

“Education is the right of everyone
to have, as far as his natural endow-
ments will permit, and it is the right
of everyone to help with the final
choice of the kind of education that
shall be provided," he declared.

Speaking on behalf of the OMGH
Education Division on an MG in-
formational series, the commentator
outlined the progress of school reform
thus far in Hesse. He cited the
decision to keep both pre-professional
and other students together for six
instead of four school years as “an
additional opportunity to end unfor-
tunate.class lines in German society.”

A German speaker, described as a
Hessian school teacher who had been
a prisoner of war in America, dis-

18

closed that 300 Germans are working
on school reform in Hesse. They have
been selected from among leaders in
schools and universities, churches,
labor organizations, political parties,
and other groups interested in improv*
ing school conditions in the state.

Military Government assistance, it
was disclosed during the broadcast,

has been given in securing technical —

information on school problems, bring-
ing experts over from the United
States for consultation, and arranging
for the exchange of students and edu=
cators with the United States, Britain,
Sweden, and Switzerland. Libraries
and money for the purchase of books
have also been provided, while RM
2,000,000, specifically earmarked for
school reform use, have been given
to the Hessian Ministry of Education.

The MG spokesman further
closed that no tuition has been charged
in any Hessian public school since
April, 1947, by decree of the Education

Ministry. ‘a

APRIL: 20, 1948

des-

--- Page 22 ---
(Continued from page 7)
Democratizing Germany

of Germans from all classes in the
community to organize themselves as
citizens’ committees whose chief re-
sponsibility will be to protect citizens’
rights. The need for such committees
is not merely to allow representatives
of various elements of the community
to meet and complain against the trib-
ulations that plague them; the most
important function of such a committee
js to arouse the community to a spe-
cific course of action,

To develop in these communities a
strong and healthy pressure group
will be a very important contribution
in the growth of community democ-
racy, and as such will stimulate the
roots of democratic government
throughout Germany.

NOTHER EXPRESSION of the

democratic spirit in the commu-
nity is the public forum. The town
meeting, so basic in American democ-
racy, is no less important today than
it was in the era of our Pilgrim
fathers, as an integral part of political
democracy. Not only will such town
meetings be a living and healthy ex-
pression of the liberties of the or-
dinary citizen, but they go far towards
democratizing the public servants who
must be obliged to defend themselves
and to answer to those whom they
serve.

It is quite clear that much must yet
be done to plant the democratic spirit
in postwar Germany. US Military
Government has succeeded in demili-
tarizing and decentralizing western

Germany. The effective democratiza-
tion in the US Zone, if not in Germany
as a whole, has, on the other hand,
only begun. To date, we have failed
to exterminate the Nazi spirit or re-
place it with democracy in thought
and practice. However perfect the
structure of government may appear
to be, and however the political par-
tiés may be organized and directed,
a democratic system will not emerge
unless the people concerned under-
stand and cherish the democratic
spirit, realize their democratic rights,
and assume their responsibilities in
the community.

The Education and Cultural Affairs
Division of OMGUS is particularly
interested in democratizing education.
The Information Control Division is
chiefly concerned with fostering the
democratic expression through the
press, the radio and the theater. The
specific responsibility of the Civil Ad-
ministration Division lies in democ-
ratizing both the spirit and structure
of government from the lowest level
of the community to state administra-
tion. To reeducate the German citi-
zenry in terms of our democratic con-
cepts of government, the Civil Ad-
ministration Division is now engaged
in various programs wh re being
developed in the st of the
US Zone.

Various US experts are being re-
cruited to consult with and aid Ger-
man officials and the leaders of various
elements of the population in order
to foster the rehabilitation of German
political life.

JEIA Division Set Up in Bavaria

The Joint Export-Import Agency,
Foreign Trade Division, Bavaria, has
been established to take over the
import export functions of Trade and
Commerce Branch (JEIA US/UK) Office
of Military Government for Bavaria.

The newly-organized division will
be responsible as an integral part of
JEIA, Hoechst, for the foreign trade
of Bavaria.

Paul S. Nevin, formerly chief of the
Trade and Commerce Branch, OMGB,
has been appointed director of Foreign
Trade Division, Bavaria. Other key
Position assignments are Peter H.

APRIL 20, 1948

Smith, deputy. director for Foreign
Trade; Robert T. Meister, deputy
director of Operations and Control;
William E. Rothfelder, chief of Licens-
ing and Markets Branch; John H.
Backer, chief of Trade Promotion
Branch, and C., M. Hulen, chief of
Accounting and Auditing Branch.

The Foreign Trade Division, which
has been set up in an attempt to
further streamline the export-import
industry, will continue administra-
tively to be affiliated with OMGB and
will operate in close liaison with the
divisions of OMGB.

19

By means of lectures, radio talks,
public forums and conferences, as well
as by the day-to-day contact with
various groups, these experts and the
Military Government officials working
with them will attempt to emphasize
to the Germans the fact that demo-
cratic government and civil liberties
are indispensable and worth fighting
for; that they are not luxuries to be
enjoyed only in eras of calm and pros-
perity, but that civil liberties are real
and vital only if they are purchased
dearly.

This is a basic political truth that
Germans in all walks of life must
learn. If this lesson is lost, democracy
cannot survive. It is our task to make
certain that the German people under-
stand and exercise their rights as free
men in a free society.

German Economy Aided

The Joint Export-Import Agency
here estimates that 100 Germans,
mostly engineers and technicians, have
gone abroad under export service
arrangements, and their dollar earn-
ings, after the deduction of necessary
living expenses , have been made
available for the whole German eco-
nomy.

In a statement clarifying the foreign
exchange earned from the export of
services, JEIA said these arrange-
ments are similar to those in force in
other countries which maintain ex-
change control.

Germans in the Bizonal Area are
permitted to make export contracts
for the sale of their specialized
services to foreign buyers. These
services may be rendered while they
remain within the Bizonal Area, but
in some -cases travel abroad is in-
volved.

All such contracts for services
require approval of the appropriate
state economic ministry and JEIA.

The individual who goes abroad is
allowed to receive in foreign exchange
sufficient money to cover his travel-
ing and similar expenses while
abroad, and the remander is paid by
the foreign buyer to JEIA, which
reimburses the German in reichsmark
at the rate one mark for 30 US
cents, — ICD News of Germany

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Allied Control Authority

The Soviet chairman and his delega-
tion walked out of the Control Council
meeting on March 20 following his
statement concerning the refusal of
the other members to report on the
recommendations agreed upon at the
US-Anglo-French conference in London.

Bipartite-Bizonal

Plans have been completed for the
participation of the Bizonal Area in
the European Recovery Plan. Repre-
sentatives of the Bipartite Control
Office were appointed to attend the
meeting of the Committee for European
Economic Cooperation (CEEC) in
Paris.

The Committee of Seniors of the
Economic Council adopted a motion
suspending Max Reimann (KPD North
Rhine-Westphalia), a member of the
Council, for two months for having
allegedly stated in a recent public
speech that participation in the bizonal
administration was treasonable.

The Committee also confirmed the
nominations to the High Court for
the combined zones, previously sub-
mitted to Military Government on the
recommendation of the Main Commit-
tee in consultation with the bizonal
Council of States.

The Council of States on March 25
confirmed four ordinances adopted by
the Economic Council. They are: 2nd
Implementing Ordinance of Economic
Council Ordinance No. 10 concerning
the control of agricultural products;
No. 20, Provisional Ordinance for
Price Formation and Price Control;
No. 21, concerning mitigation of re-
percussions of the dismantling pro-
gram, and No. 22, concerning provi-
sional budgeting of the Bizonal Eco-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

nomic Administration in the fiscal

year 1948.

The Military Governors met on
March 15 in the first of scheduled
monthly meetings with leading re-
presentatives of the Economic Council,
Council of States, and Executive
Committee, These meetings will norm-
ally take place on the 15th of each
month and will be held for the pur-
pose of exchanging views and in-
formation on matters of mutual inter-
est concerning the work of the Bizonal
Administration.

The March food ration has allowed
the normal consumer 1,180 calories
per day in Lower Saxony and Schles-
wig-Holstein, 1,260 calories in Bavaria
and Westphalia (excluding special
supply area Ruhr), and 1,400 calories
in other areas,

Between July 1, 1947 and March 1,
1948 greatly increased imports and
indigenous production permitted a
distribution of chemical fertilizers al-
most equalling that for the entire
crop year 1946-47. Actual amounts
distributed during the past eight
months were: 159,500 tons of nitrogen,
121,900 tons of phosphate, and 294,100
tons of potash.

During the two-week period ending
March 20, coal production continued
to rise, reaching 1,772,967 tons in the

The section on Occupational
Activities is compiled from the
Semimonthly Report of Military
Government No. 87; official an-
nouncements by MG and affi-
liated organizations, and public
information offices throughout
the US Zone, to give a summary
of developments throughout the
occupied area of Germany.

20

second. Average daily output for the
week ending March 13 was 295,49
tons, breaking the post V-E day rec-
cord of 269,371 tons set the preceding
week,

Including the 42,469 tons produced
Sunday, March 21, average daily out-—
put during the week ending March 21
was 298,810 tons, a new peak figure. —

The continued recession of water
levels on the Rhine River has reduced
upstream loadings of coal to 75 per-
cent of barge capacity since March 17,
Further reductions may become ne- —
cessary unless spring rains result
higher water levels. Nevertheless, the
programmed upstream movement of
400,000 metric tons of coal for the
US Zone for the five-week period —
ending March 29 had reached 103 per-
cent of allocation on March 22. h

Consumption of electricity during
the week ending March 6 decreased
seasonally 4 percent, the largest de-
crease so far this year, and which
continued into the week ending
March 13. During the same period,
hydrogeneration remained fairly con-
stant, contributing approximately
25 percent of total generation.

Non- ferrous metals production has
been retarded by a labor shortage.
In February the output of cathode
copper was 2,606 tons, compared to
2,980 tons in January, and raw zinc
and zinc dust production dropp
from 2,133 tons in January to 1,8
tons in February. Hard and soft
output rose from 1,752 tons in Janua
to 2,842 tons in February.

It was estimated that there would
be a deficiency of 175 tons of urgeni
needed coal-mining explosives by
end of March out of a total requt
ment of about 700 tons, Arrangemen!

APRIL 20, 1!

--- Page 24 ---
are being made to take advantage of
an offer of 15 tons per week of mine
explosives from Belgium.

Production of newsprint in the
week ending March 13 was 1,676 tons,
the highest weekly total since the
occupation began. It declined to 1,450
tons in the week ending March 20.

February was the peak month of
the occupation in tire production,
with an output of 122,773 tires and
125,141 tubes, To supply the raw
materials needed for increased tire
production in the third and fourth
quarters of 1948, JEIA has been
requested to obtain immediately
$8,800,000 worth of raw cotton and
rubber.

In accordance with the agreement
reached by US, British, arid French
Military Government representatives
in Berlin on Feb, 20, to place trade
between the Bizonal Area and the
Saar on a foreign trade basis effective
April 1, a detailed procedure has been
drawn up to execute the transition
with a minimum disruption to trade.
No further interzonal trade permits
will be issued but will be replaced by
customary export licenses,

At a recent conference, German
authorities of the truncated French
Zone and the Bizonal Area drew up
an interzonal trade program for the
period April through December 1948,
in accordance with the Berlin agree-
ment mentioned above. It is expected
that the final agreement will be.rati-
fied in Baden-Baden about April 20.

Agreement has been reached. be-
tween authorities of the Combined
Travel Board and British, French, and
US transport authorities to discontinue
the use of the Military Entry Permit
for, foreign bargemen, and to allow
only the use of the Jaissez passer,
stamped with an indorsement permit-
ting. entry.

Railway workers of the US and
British Zones founded their first bi-
zonal industrial union at a delegates’
Convention at Frankfurt March 23-26.
The convention was also attended by
delegations of the International Trans-
port Workers’ Federation (ITF) from
the United States, Great Britain, Bel-
gium, the Netherlands, Switzerland,
and Sweden.

APRIL 20, 1948

Approval for inaugurating outgoing
international airmail service for Ger-
man nationals was given by Bipartite
Board.

Four Zones

The communist (SED/KPD) dominat-
ed People’s Congress (Volkskongress)
meeting in Berlin on March 17 and 18
decided to launch a petition campaign
in all zones, calling for a plebiscite
on the unity of Germany, and formed
a Peoples Council of 400 persons
headed by a Praesidium of 29 persons.
The Council was established to carry
on “the struggle for German unity”
between sessions of the Congress, and
to execute the decisions of the latter.

On March 18, in Berlin, all political
parties participated in observance of
the 100th anniversary of the 1848
revolution, At the Platz der Republik,
in spite of the inclement weather,
25,000 non-Communists listened to
memorial addresses. The Communist
celebration was closely connected
with the deliberations of the People’s
Congress,

US Zone

Crime incidence increased modera-
telly in all states except Bremen, where
no appreciable change was noted. On

March 15 border police stationed at
Rhine-Main airport assumed inspec-
tion control with respect to all per-
sons arriving or departing who come
under German police jurisdiction.

Newspaper publishers and editors
from the United States and other
countries have been invited to attend
an international conference of publish-
ers to be held in Munich on April 28
in connection with the opening of the
Press Exhibition,

To provide German trade unions
with information on labor, working
and living conditions, and trade union
activities in the United States and
Western European countries, Military
Government began to issue a weekly
eight-page mimeographed _ bulletin
“Arbeitsmitteilungen” (Labor News),
containing purely factual and_ sta-
tistical information.

EUCOM

A report released by Headquarters,
European Command, shows that as of
Jan. 31 there were 475,505 DP's living
in and out of PCIRO assembly centers
in the US Zone. The report, compiled
from US Army, Military Government
and PCIRO sources, shows an in-camp
population of : 316,689; 143,769 in-
dividuals living within the German

Seven professors from the University of Chicago arrive at the Rhine-
~ Main Airport, Frankfurt. Six of them will lecture at the University of
Frankfurt this summer. The group includes Professors Louis Thurstone,
. Thelma Thurstone, Roger Oake, Elder Olson, Everett Hughes, Paul Weiss,

and Wilhelm Pauck.

21

(DENA-Bild)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
economy, and 15,047 employed in
civilian labor service units,

Since the organized DP resettlement
program was started on March 1, 1946,
88,990 DP's from the US Zone have
been resettled in 45 countries. Ap-
proximately 688,500 United Nations
DP’'s have been repatriated from the
US Zone since the dissolution of
SHAEF in July 1945.

A CARE central sales office for
Germany has been opened in Stutt-
gart to provide rapid delivery of
CARE food packages to beneficiaries
in Berlin and the three western zones
of Germany. By eliminating the ne-
cessity of ordering through the New
York office of CARE, it is estimated
that delivery time will be cut to an
average of one week from receipt of
the order.

Bavaria

Illegal border activity in Bavaria
resulted in a sharp increase in arrests,
a moderate increase in rejections, and
a sharp decrease in the value of
goods seized.

A heavy increase in the number
and size of Czech border patrols has
been observed. These patrols are in
many cases armed with automatic
‘weapons and appear to be of a mil-
itary or semi-military nature. The
civilian population in some Czech
border areas is apparently being
moved to the interior of the country.

Berlin Sector

Soviet authorities have agreed to
release the necessary railway cars for
the movement of scrap metal from
the US Sector of Berlin to inland
water loading docks in the British and
French Sectors, This scrap metal is
being moved by barge to Hamburg
for export to the United States.

In Berlin, plans for the publication
of two current events magazines have
been completed. One will serve the
10-14 age group, the other the 15-18
age group. The first issue is expected
to be published during the second
week of April.

Nine delegates from Methodist
Churches in the US Sector and the
US Zone will attend the world con-
ference of the Methodist Church to be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

held in Boston, April 28 to May 15.
Several of the delegates will remain
in America four or five months to
visit Methodist institutions and study
American church work.

Wuerttemberg-Baden

A typhoid epidemic reported on
March 12 at Eislingen, 12 miles from
Goeppingen, had resulted in a total
of 223 cases and eight deaths by
March 26, Most cases occurred among
women and children. Preliminary in-
vestigation indicated the apparent
cause was a breakdown in the filtra-

A second shoe exhibit was held this
month in Frankfurt. Germans examine
shoes made in the US, British and

French Zones. (DENA-Bild)
tion gallery in the main water supply
system supplying four small villages.
Chlorination of all water supplies is
being enforced and inoculation of
contacts begun.

At a meeting in Kassel (Hesse) the
Supreme Council of the Evangelical
Church in Germany approved a draft
of a new Church constitution, which
will be submitted to a constitutional
synod for final action next summer.

British Zone

The regional commissioner for
Schleswig-Holstein has ratified the
new law on the continuation and
completion of denazification drafted

22

by the state legislature. This is the —
first denazification law to be pro.
mulgated by any state legislature in|
the British Zone. 4

The Ribbentrop collection of paint.
ings and carpets, looted from Fran
during the occupation, will shortly
be restituted to France and the right.
ful owners. The collection. which was _
discovered in the Foreign Office in
Berlin and at Schloss Julianica near
Itzehoe, was brought to Hamburg for
identification purposes,

Anglo-German clubs where British ;
and Germans can meet on an equal
footing are to be established in th
British Zone of Germany. It is propos.
ed initially to open two such clubs
in the state of North Rhine/West-
phalia, and one each in the states of
Niedersachsen, Schleswig: Hola
Hamburg, and in Berlin,

Bonus Food Granted

Import licenses for the purchase of
tea, coffee, sardines and cheese cos!
ing $500,000, from the United States,
Holland and Portugal, have been
granted to the Bonus “B" office of
the German Economic Administrati
(Verwaltungsamt fiir Wirtschaft) for
allocation under the export worke:
incentive plan, the Joint Export-Import
Agency announced, a

This is the first expenditure of
funds accumulated at the rate of five
percent of all foreign exchange pro-
ceeds realized from export sales from
the Bizonal Area.

Under the interim procedure és
tablished in February by the Bizoni
Executive Committee, the VFW an
German trade unions, each export
worker will be entitled to use out 0}
his accumulated share of the bon
funds a maximum of $6 per moni
for the purpose of commodities
ported under the Bonus "B" plan,
to the extent of availability of sud
imports.

Food will be the first item to
imported with bonus funds, O
types of imports will be added latel
according to the desires of employ: e
entitled to Bonus “B’ and the avi
ability of these commodities in_
world market.

--- Page 26 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

General Orders, No. 23, Hq EUCOM,
27 February 1948, Section I-Organiz-
ation of the 7890 Headquarters Group
(EUCOM). Effective 1 March 1948 this
group is organized at Frankfurt. Sec-
tion II-Redesignation of the US Mili-
tary Liaison Mission to the Comman-
der-in-Chief of the Soviet Occupied
Zone of Germany. Effective 1 March
1948 the new designation in 7893 US
Military Liaison Mission to the Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Soviet Occu-
pation Zone of Germany.

Circular No. 23, Central Personnel
Clearance Office, Hq OMGUS,
2March 1948, To facilitate and expe-
dite clearance of financial and prop-
erty accountability and responsibility
for personnel departing from Berlin
the AG's Branch, Hq Berlin Command
OMGUS, has located an office in
Building D, Room 200, 32—34 Gary-
strasse, Berlin-Dahlem,

General Orders No. 8, Redesignation
of Units; OMGUS, 8 March 1948,
Effective 20 March 1948 the 7780
OMGUS Groups is organized and
consists of seven units.

Operating Agencies and Assigned
EUCOM Code Numbers, AG 130 BFD-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 11 March 1948.
Effective 1 April 1948 the following
code numbers are assigned: APO 403,
Heidelberg Military Post, No. 1037;
APO 154, Stuttgart Military Post,
No. 1038; APO 175, Darmstadt Muli-
tary Post, No. 1039, and APO 169,
Wetzlar Military Post, No. 1040.

Changes No. 2, Overseas Movement
of Military Personnel, Hq EUCOM,
{1 March 1948, Gives substitution for
EUCOM-SOP 77, 18 December 1947.

General Orders, No. 27, Hq EUCOM,
12 March 1948, Section I-Army Com-
mendation Ribbon; Section Il-Amend-
dents and Section III-Revocation.

Maintenance of Law and Order
Among United Nations Displaced
Persons, AG 383.7 GCA-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 12 March 1948 Cites .the
authority of US and German law en-
forcement agencies to invoke EUCOM
Circular 81, 1947 and USFET-SOP 81,
16 May 1946,

Personnel Bulletin, H-36,.— F-19,
Changes No, 2, Hours of Duty and
Overtime, OMGUS, 13 ‘March 1948.

APRIL 20, 1948

Gives substitutions for Bulletin H-36,
F-19, 20 May 1947.

Mess Supervision and Management,
AG 3335 SGS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
15 March 1948. Cites the need for
closer check as to good management,
operation and security.

Changes No.1, USFET-SOP 99, Hq
EUCOM, 15 March 1948, Refers to
Travel Control Directive for the
European Theater.

Appropriated Funds Authorized to
Duty Travel Outside of Germany,
AG 120 AGP-B, Hq EUCOM, 16 March
1948. Lists the projects:chargeable for
travel outside of Germany.

SOP No. 96 Revised, Arrest, Search
and Seizure, Hq EUCOM, 16 March
1948.

Circular. No. 30, OMGUS, 17 Marc!
1948. Section I-Changes in Status of
Personnel; Section II - US Government
Motor Vehicle Dispatcher; Section
IlI-Standing Orders and Section IV-
Processing of Enlisted Personnel for
Shipment to ZI.

General Orders No. 28, Hq EUCOM,
17 March 1948. Section I-Redesigna-
tion of Berlin Command; Section JI-
American Graves Registration Com-
mand, European Area and Section III-
Announcement of Assignment. Colonel
Frank J. Pearson, is announced as
Inspector General, European Com-
mand, at Frankfurt, effective 5 April
1948,

Separation of Officers for Enlist-
ment or Reenlistment, 210.456
(BCAGX), OMGUS, 17 March 1948,
Calls attention to EUCOM Weekly
Directive No.9, Section XIV, 5 March
1948, Calls attention to EUCOM
Weekly Directive No. 9, Section XIV,
5 March 1948 which contains inform-
ation not previously published.

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Request D 52-1, L 29-5, and INT
29-1, AG 0141 (SG), OMGUS, 17

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters.

23

March 1948. D 52-1 Refers to Com-
ment on Question of Issuance of Im-
plementing Regulations under Arti-
cles 17 and 30 of the Restitution Law;
L 29-5 Information on the Return of
German Prisoners of War and on
Deaths During Detention and INT
29-1 Revision of Dates for Taking of
Census in Labor Statistics.

Circular No. 31, OMGUS, 18 March
1948. Section I-Real-Estate. Gives sub-
stitution for paragraph 4e, EUCOM
Circular No. 2 1948. Section TII-
Hunting and Fishing Policy. Gives
substitution for paragraph 1g, EUCOM
Circular No, 120, 1947. Section III-
Foreign Tours of Military Personnel.
Gives substitutions for EUCOM Cir-
cular No. 88, 30 October 1947.

Changes No. 3, Overseas: Move-
ment of Military Personnel, Hq
EUCOM, 18 March 1948. Gives sub-
stitution. for EUCOM-SOP 77, 18 De-
cember 1947,

Changes No. 2, Movement and Doc-
umentation of Supplies in the Euro-
pean Command, Hq EUCOM, 18 March
1948, Gives substitution for EUCOM-
SOP 24, 22 December 1947,

Implementation of Notice No. 2
under Military Government Law
No. 53 as it Relates to United Nations
Displaced Persons, AG 383.7 GCA-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 18 March 1948,
Gives instructions for displaced per-
sons during the period 1 to 15 April
1948 to deposit with the Land Central
Bank, as agents of MG, all foreign
exchange assets as described in Ar-
ticle 3 of MG Law No.53, to include
foreign currencies and securities and
gold, silver and platinum, in mone-
tary or bullion form.

Policy Regarding Non-Governmental
Business and Professional Associa-
tions, AG 080 (CA), OMGUS, 19 March
1948. Confirms the policy of MG as
set forth in MGR 13-120 BICO/Memo
(48)13 and MG Law No. 56.

Circular No. 26, Nonappropriated
Funds, Hq EUCOM, 19 March 1948.
Gives substitutions for EUCOM
Circular 101, 1947,

Visits by Foreign Liaison Officers
to German Prisons, AG 014,331 GCA-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 19 March 1943.
Lists the correct address for cc-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
ordinating requests for permission to
visit German prisons.

Ownership and Use of Moior
Vehicles by Displaced Persons, AG
451 GCA-AGO, OMGUS, 19 March
1948, Cites the rights of DP’s.

Circular No. 27, Disposition of Re-
cords, Hq EUCOM, 20 March 1948.
Cites the responsibilities of com-
manders for screening material
authorized for disposal or transfer to
the EUCOM Inactive Records Depot.

SOP No. 74, Determination of Re-
quirements, Allocation and Distribu-
tion of Solid Fuel, Hq EUCOM,
20 March 1948,

General Orders No. 31, The Ameri-
can Red Cross, Hq EUCOM, 22 March
1948. Refers to the termination of all
American Red Cross club programs
in the European Command.

Authorization to Draw Equipment
Under Table of Allowance 20 (EC),
AG 400.34 GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
22 March 1948, For supply purposes,
the European Area, American Graves
Registration Command is considered
in the same category as a military
post or air base and is authorized
to draw post, camp and station type
equipment.

Supply Bulletin No. 5, Service
Units, Installations and Activities,
OMGUS, 22 March 1948. Gives a
complete list for OMGUS,

Circular No. 32, Registration of
Tires, OMGUS, 24 March 1948,

OMGUS Action on _ Laenderrat
Requests D 55-1 and D 55-2, AG
014.1 (SG), OMGUS, 24 March 1948.
Concerns D 55-1 Issue of Rifles ty
MG to German Hunters for Shooting
Wild Boar and D 55-2 Donation of
Raw Materials as Relief Supplies.

European Command Safety Program,
Accident Reporting Procedures, AG
729.3. PMG-AGO, Hq _  EUCOM,
24 March 1948. Gives pertinent in-
formation.

Appointment of Warrant Officers
in the Regular Army and United
States Air Forces, AG 210.1 AGP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 25 March 1948.
Cites information to be brought to
the attention of all temporary officers
and warrant officers and all enlisted
personnel.

Assignment Readjustment Proce-
dures, AG 210.3 GPA-AGO, Hq

EUCOM, 25 March 1948, Cites in-
structions for reporting MOS's,

Circular No. 28, Hq EUCOM,
26 March 1948. Section I-Strength
Accountability; Section II-Issue of
Chemical Corps 3-Gal Decontaminat-
ing Apparatus; Section III-Civilian
Personnel Strength Control; Section
IV-Authorization of Equipment and
Section V-Rescission.

Circular No. 33, OMGUS, Process-
ing of Enlisted Personnel for Ship-
ment to ZI, 26 March 1948. Gives
substitutions for BC Circular 30,
1948,

Downgrading of Document, AG
380.01 (AG), OMGUS, 27 March 1948.
Administrative Memorandum No, 34,
SHAFE, General Accounting Instruc-
tions for Civil Affairs Supplies/Stores,
2 October 1944, is downgraded from
CONFIDENTIAL to UNCLASSIFIED.

Expediting Completion of Denazi-
fication Trials in the US Zone, AG
383 (CA), OMGUS, 27 March 1948.
Gives the established policy and
procedures to be followed.

Requests for Intelligence and FBI
Checks, AG 312.3 (DI), OMGUS,
29 March 1948, Cites the proper
channels to be followed for such in-
formation,

Circular No. 35, OMGUS, 30 March
1948. Section I-Circular No. 26. This
OMGUS circular was not published.
Section II-Special Privilege Pass.
Gives substitutions for OMGUS Cir-
cular No. 147, 1947.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests INT 30-2, INT 30-3, and L 30-2,
AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS, 31 March
1948, INT 30-2 and INT 30-3 refers to
Draft Law Amending Provisions of
the Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism; and L 30-2
refers to Draft Law Amending
Article 25 of the Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Mili-
tarism.

Deadline on Awards

Headquarters, European Command,
announced that US military and for-
mer military personnel in EUCOM
who served in World War II cannot
accept foreign awards and decora-
tions from the national governments
of co-belligerent nations, neutral
nations, or from other American re-
publics, after July 24, 1948.

Hanover Fair Books
Bizonal Exhibitors

The export fair in Hannover, sched-
uled to open May 22, will have
1,898 Bizonal Area exhibitors, an in-
crease of 40 percent over the first
Hannover exposition last August, fair
officials have announced.

Exhibitors will include the most
representative firms in the automo.
bile, machinery, electrical products,
and chemical industries. Increased rep-
resentation from south German ex-
porters will include textile, leather
goods and chinaware firms,

Meanwhile, the final report of the
Leipzig fair office disclosed that the
volume of business transacted at. the
six-day fair in march amounted to
RM 457,000,000, of which RM 66,000,000
were in export contracts. Three-quar-
ters of the export business has al-
ready been approved, officials an-
nounced.

Interzonal trade accounted for
RM 154,000,000 — — RM _ 84,000,000
for the Soviet Zone and RM 70,000,000
for the western zones, according to
exhibitors. Soviet Zone exhibitors
sold RM 155,000,000 worth of goods
to zonal buyers while western zone
businessmen purchased products val-
ued at RM 82,000,000 from west’ zone
firms.

Final registration figures showed an
attendance of 194,0000 persons, in-
cluding 33,000 from western Germany
and 4,000 from foreign countries, To
transport them, 125 extra trains were
used. In Leipzig an average of 935
taxis daily made 92,263 trips in addi-
tion to the street cars which carried
3,000,000 passengers. —

ICD News of Germany

Ex-Pw’s Sheltered

Friendship House, a home for return-
ing prisoners of war from Russia, has
been opened in Niederpocking,. near
Starnberg. The home, sponsored by
the Innere Mission, Protestant welfare
agency, is operated by Germans with
the aid of German and American
donations. It is designed to reha-
bilitate PW's who have lost their
families and dwellings. Most of them
are suffering form malnutrition and:
exposure incurred during internment’
in Russian camps, ;

DEUTSCHER VERLAG