--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

Four Nations—Soldiers of the four
nations occupying Germany stand at
attention before their respective flags
in the rotunda of the Allied Control
Authority building in Berlin.

BULLETIN

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concernin olicies, regulations, in-
—ee? hn eaaal hs activities TABLE OF CONTENTS
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest
organizations in the United States. The
Information Bulletin is distributed Occupational Activities
without charge as a public. service. Germany — Through the Eyes of Former Model PW's
The editorial staff of the Information

2
3
Bulletin is a section of the Reports Restored and Re-Read, © ©.) - - - - 1 1 1 5
7
8
2]

Issue No. 132 April 6, 1948

Branch, Control Office, OMGUS. Mem- Cultural Goods Restituted
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid,
editor; Henry S. Matteo, assistant
editor; Val Green Bowman, writer; Aid Sought in Advancing GYA .
Mary Catherine Sullivan, reporter. Its
Office is located in the Reports Branch
Building, 20 Saargemuender Strasse,
Berlin-Dahlem. Its mailing address is: Political -Paries, gist os, wh. bn de Jd) NS ee
Information Bulletin, Control Office

Friendship Train .

Educational Projects Helped ........ ...10

Editorial Opinion in German Press. . ..... fil

OMGUS, Berlin, Germany; APO 742, A ectubort eget UNCS “ovit snnirs ten aia
US Army. Telephone numbers are Reviews List German Research . ...... . 22
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227. Cities of US Zone (Last of two parts). . . . . . 23

Essential dit i ted with ‘h
selina: Teas ese Officfal ‘Instrdictions; “4: s.nenim Ges eaanel

article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source cited OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

with the article. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
cod /k CAN A Ee

Bipartite-Bizonal

During the week ending March 6
hard coal production in the Ruhr
reached the daily rate of 289,377 tons,
a new peak since VE day. This rep-
resents an increase of almost 5 per-
cent over the daily average rate of
276,340 tons for the week ending
Feb. 28, and an increase of 4 percent
over the daily average rate of 279,800
tons in November, the previous oc-
cupation peak. An occupation record
figure of 306,000 tons was mined on
March 8.

Instructions have been issued in
the Bizonal Area for the printing of
10,000 tickets for use by foreign busi-
nessmen riding on US_ military
trains. The cost of tickets will cor-
respond with the international dollar
tariff, which is in force on internation-
al trains.

By the end of the first week in
March, electric power consumption
had increased to an average of
356,000,000 KWH per week. With hy-
drogeneration maintaining an excep-
tionally high level for this time of
the year, not only in the Bizonal Area
but in Austria and in the French Zone
as well, the international and inter-
zonal exchanges of power are 60
favorable that only 4 percent of the
net output of generating stations in
the Bizonal Area was exported during
the first week in March.

Pig iron and steel ingots were pro-
duced at a higher rate in February
than in January, but because of the
fewer working days in February, ac-
tual tonnage was slightly less then
it was in the preceding month,

A commercial contract for the ex-
port of 100,000 tons of ferrous scrap
has been concluded by the Ministry
of Supply in London with two Ger-
man firms. The total is to be deliv-
ered by July 31 at the price of
$26 per ton.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The shortage of coal, limestone,
and coke oven gas at fertilizer plants
is holding present production of
synthetic nitrogen fertilizers at only
about 70 percent of total capacity.
The production of lime for the manu-
facture of calcium cyanamid is unsat-
isfactory. One factor is the poor qual-
ity of the indigenous firebricks
available for lining lime-kilns. At-
tempts will be made to import clay
suitable for firebrick manufacture.

Production of explosives urgently
needed in coal mining and other es-
sential industries was resumed at the
Dynamit A.G. explosives factory, at
Schlebush (North Rhine-Westphalia),
on March 10, after an interruption of
about four weeks. The supply of es-
sential explosives, however, contin-
ues critical.

Plans have been approved for the
manufacture of specialized hosiery
machinery, mainly for export from the
Bizonal Area. Included among the
machinery is the  full-fashioned
stocking machine which was for-
merly manufactured only in the So-
viet Zone, and for which there is a
large export market.

JEIA representatives were in Swe-
den recently to negotiate for pulp
purchases for the remainder of 1948
paper requirements, The 1948-49 Bi-
zonal Paper Production Plan, with an
over-all target of 480,000 tons of pa-

The section on Occupational
Activities is compiled from the
Semimonthly Report of Military
Government No. 88, oificial
announcements by MG and
affiliated organizations, and
public information offices
throughout the US Zone, to give
a summary of developments
throughout the occupied area
of Germany.

if

per, requires the import of 120,000
tons of scarce pulp. ;

The Bizonal Economic Council elec
ted the following to the Executive Com- —
mittee: chairman, Dr. Herman Puender,
mayor of Cologne (CDU); economics
director, Prof. Ludwig Ehrhard, form-
er economics minister of Bavaria
(unaffiliated). Incumbent directors of —
food and agriculture, finance, trans-
port, and posts and telecommunica- —
tions were reelected.

Puender's election was confirmed
by the bizonal Council of States. His
election and those of the remaining ©
members of the Executive Committee —
subsequently were approved by the
Bipartite Board.

Dr. Heinrich Troeger (SPD) was —
appointed secretary general of the
Council of States. The Council also
approved a list of nominees for the ~
Bizonal Area's high court, and decid-
ed that each state government would —
establish in Frankfurt a liaison office —
with the bizonal administration.

During the three months ending
January, 1948, industrial activity in ~
the Bizonal Area was about 44 per- _
cent of the 1936 level. 4

Cotton textiles totalling 30,000,000 —
yards, sufficient to manufacture ap-
proximately 12,000,000 garments, was
purchased for the Bizonal Area econo-
my under an agreement signed
between Bipartite textile officials and
officials of the Textile Section, Ger-
man Economic Administration (VFW).

OMGUS

Three French civilians, Mr. and
Mrs. Jean J. Chappat, and Miss Ma-_
delaine Lansac, were awarded the
Medal of Freedom by Brig. Gen, Wil-
liam Hesketh, Assistant Deputy Mil-
itary Governor, during ceremonies
at OMGUS Headquarters. They aided
the US Army as members of the”

(Continued on page 20)

APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 6 ---
bi

HE REACTIONS of 78 former

American-held German prisoners
of war to conditions in Germany
have been analyzed by the Opinion
Surveys section of the Information
Control Division, OMGUS.

The men were among a group of
specially-selected prisoners sent to a
school at Fort Getty at the end of
the war to learn about democracy
and the principles for which the
United States stands,

They were chosen for the school
primarily on the grounds of their
political outlook and disposition to
deny autocratic, racial and ethno-
centric doctrines, Their intellectual
capacity, better than average in-
telligence, also was a factor in their
selection.

Other than giving them a cer-
tificate of completion of the course,
which included a recommendation to
American offices in Germany, no
special provision was made for their
futures. They were merely turned
loose in Germany in the hope that
they would prove to be seeds from
which a democratic point of view
among German civilians might sprout.

In the spring of 1947, ICD-Opinion
Surveys attempted to get in touch
with as many as possible of those
men, who had more or less regularly
corresponded with their former
teachers, to investigate their attitudes
and opinions toward Germany.

In all, 78 of the men responded to
a rather lengthy questionaire, not
only answering the questions put to
them but in many cases providing
several pages of free comments on
the topics covered as well as others.

In interpreting the following anal-
ysis of these replies, it should be
kept in mind that this panel is far
from typical of Germans, It consists
of selected men chosen originally

APRIL 6, 1948

because of their political outlook,
intelligence and good education. Sub-
sequently they were subjected to the
unique experience of the Fort Getty
school.

S A RESULT of these factors, it

is not surprising to find that the
proportion of professional persons and
white collar workers among this
group is very high—73 percent—nor
is it surprising that their political
attitudes differ considerably from the
picture presented by the population
as a whole. The two chief differences
are:

Indicative of a greater willingness
to participate in public affairs is the
fact that the percentage of member-
ship in current political parties is
much higher than is the case among
the general public—23 percent against
about 4 or 5 percent of an average
sample.

A critical and sophisticated attitude
also is very apparent concerning
preference for parties—33 percent of
all respondents deny sympathy for
any party. It is perhaps important to
note that in this panel, this rejection
of parties only very rarely results
from the political apathy so pre-
valent among the German people, but
chiefly from clear criticism of party
shortcomings.

The Fort Getty respondents say
that on their return to Germany they
were more impressed by the chaotic
state in the mental attitudes of the
people than by physical and material
conditions

Nearly half of them claimed that
“widespread corruption, red-tape and
the low level of both morals and
morale in all aspects of public and
family life’ formed their first and
most shocking impression,

Everywhere, Nazi and militaristic
elements are said to be met with.

3

WIE roucy Mme BES OF
“FURMER MODEL PWS

The enormous physical destruction
made the greatest impression on
about one out of four.

Only a few favorable impressions
were mentioned, chiefly regarding
the reconstruction of transportation
and other public utilities.

ORE THAN one out of 10 were

not surprised by what they saw
in Germany. Conditions were just as
they had expected them to be. A
farmer, 34, explained that “during my
stay in America I was well informed
by papers, magazines... therefore
nothing greatly surprised me.”

Almost three-fourths of the respond-
ents named an increase in product-
ion, and six out of 10 an increase
of the food supply, as the most
urgent problems facing the German
people, Many mentioned a close
connection between the increase in
production and food supply.

Half of the respondents expressed
fear lest corruption and red-tape
should impede efforts at recon-
struction.

The same proportion also expressed
concern over the absence of a sin-
cerely-democratic attitude among the
German people. Unity of Germany,
abolition of the zonal borders and
the establishment of a German govern-
ment were mentioned as frequently.

On the other hand, such widely-.
discussed problems as agricultural
reform, redistribution of property, and
the return of prisoners of war were
mentioned each by only one among 20.

Most of the respondents felt unable
to give a clear-cut reply to a question
on the possible duration of the oc-
cupation, They based their replies on
certain variables, and contingencies.
Thus, four in 10 said the length of
the occupation depended on the
course of international relations. Here
the central problem raised was how
the United States and Russia would

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
reach an agreement—or whether there
would be such an agreement at all.

One in 10 thought the occupation
would last until there was a function-
ing democracy in Germany,

When the panel group was asked
how long Germany should remain
occupied, four out of 10 thought it
should be until the realization of a
finally-established democracy in Ger-
many. One in four considered the
settlement of international affairs as
an important condition for the end of
occupation.

One in 20 respondents considered
the moment when economie con-
ditions in Germany have been suf-
ficiently normalized to be the right
one for the withdrawal. They did not
mention the influence of any political
development on this problem.

HE QUESTION of the future of

Germany posed a difficult pro-
blem to most of the panel, Less than
a fifth stated that Germany would
recover regardless of any outside
help, An equal number was com-
pletely pessimistic. Some of the
latter thought Germany was already
lost, and others felt a split Germany
was inevitable.

The remainder—six in 10—gave
qualified answers. One in three of
them thought Germany would regain
her former position, provided she got
outside help. Most frequently, mention
was made of a United States of
Europe, Others thought that help from
abroad was the vital requirement.

Seven out of 10 considered general
economic, political and social con-
ditions the greatest obstacles to the
democratization of Germany. An em-
ployee, 44, said that: “The difficulties
lie in the first place with the problem
of food, A man who is hungry, and
despite that must work, cannot be won
for democracy.”

But the panel group also mentioned
political shortcomings among the
German people as an obstacle to
democracy. Half of all respondents
accused the German people of
political apathy, intolerance and lack
of a genuine conception of freedom.

Blame also was laid on the political
parties and the German authorities,
both of whom were called inefficient.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Henry Ford II (right) chats with Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, the US
Deputy Military Governor, during a visit to Berlin. Mr. Ford came to

Europe recently on a tour of his Ford automobile plants,

Denazification procedures were se-
verely criticized by more than three
out of 10 respondents.

Among those who expressed a
preference among political parties,
there was a marked tendency to
favor the SPD, Indeed, 35 percent
prefered this party, as opposed to
one in seven for LDP/DVP, and one
in 10 for CDU/CSU. This represents
a much higher proportion for SPD
among this panel group than is found
in the population as a whole.

On the other hand, the third of the
panel which disclaimed preference for
any of the parties said the parties
pursue a self-centered policy to the
neglect of the basic interests of the
people, They claimed that party
leaders inspire little confidence and
their ideas are old-fashioned.

HREE FOURTHS of the panel

group already have thought ab-
out emigration and have formed some
opinion about it. Four out of 10 do
not intend to leave Germany.

An equally large number hopes to
emigrate. Another two out of 10
would consider such a step if the
economic or political situation in
Germany turns out to be hopeless.
The United States is most frequently

4

(Signal Corps)

mentioned as the place they would
like to go to.

Less than a half of the panel group
claimed to be sufficiently well in-
formed on what is happening in the
world,

Those who stated that they did not
have enough information gave various
reasons. A fourth of all respondents
mentioned the lack of newspapers,
German as well as foreign; lack of
radio sets, and preoccupation with
the heavy burdens of daily life.

1,200 DP’s Repatriated

The lowest level in the repatriation
program for United Nations displaced ©
persons was reached in December,
1947, when fewer than 1,200 persons
returned home. More than 800 of this
number were Poles. In addition, 665
ex-enemy displaced persons were re- ~
patriated.

Tax Laws Amended
The ACA Control Council promul-
gated Law No. 61, amending the
income, corporation, and excess pro-
fits tax laws to afford relief from
increased taxes to the lower income
group and to increase those for
persons with higher incomes and

those in professional status.

APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
HEN THE Nazis

“burned the
books” in Berlin's Opernplatz
on May 10, 1933, 20-year old Helmut
Kindler was filled with shame. The
young German university student re-
solved to help make up for this bar-
baric act of his fellow-countrymen.

Kindler, now 36, has accomplished
what he set out to do. He has pub-
lished a book which carries excerpts
from writings by more than 200 Ger-
man authors whose works were
banned, burned, and forbidden by the
Nazis in 1933,

His book was printed early in
March, and is being sold in book-
stores throughout Germany at
RM 3.50, Called “Verboten und Ver-
brannt" (Forbidden and Burned) the
book bears a title page with flame-
red lettering.

The original spark for the book was
generated last spring. Kindler, one of
the two German licensees of the
American-sponsored Berlin woman's
magazine, “sie, approached Fred B.
Bleistein, chief of the Publications
Section, Office of Military Govern-
ment, Berlin Sector, and asked if he
could get four additional pages for a
coming issue of the magazine,

“IT want to fill an entire issue of
“sie with short items written by

tn an elaborate ceremony, in 1933, the Nazis burned the books of “undesirable’’ German authors

By Raymond Simon
Information Specialist, Public Rela-
tions Branch, OMG-Berlin Sector

Raymond Simon, who wrote
Restored and Re-Read, entered
Berlin as an enlisted man with
the first occupation units in July,
1945, and has been there ever
since. A graduate of the North-
western University School of
Journalism, he intends to enter
newspaper work in the near
future. He is a native of West
Englewood, N. J.

German authors whose works were
forbidden by the Nazis,” Kindler ex-
plained. He told Bleistein that both
he and Heinz Ullstein, co-licensee of
the magazine, had agreed to cut out
of the particular issue all but a half
page of advertising in order to make
room for the editorial material.

sie’ came out on May 11, 1947,
with its enlarged 16-page issue.
Within its covers were short excerpts
from writings by such world-famed
German emigrants as Bert Brecht,
Lion Feuchtwanger, Thomas Mann,
Erich Remarque, Franz Werfel, and

Stefan Zweig. The response from
readers of ‘sie’ was immediate and
enthusiastic. Every day in the three
months following publication the mag-
azine received an average of 15 let-
ters praising the article and re-
questing extra copies of the issue, It
was then that Kindler advanced the
idea of having the article enlarged
and published in book form,

Bleistein granted the necessary
paper allocation, and Kindler and
Ullstein immediately began looking
for an editor,

HEY FOUND two of them, Alfred

Kantorowicz and Richard Drews,
the former a German emigrant who
had been to America during the Hit-
ler period, the latter an anti-Hitlerite
who had remained behind in Germany
doing advertising work. Both were
conversant with the main works of
the important banned German writers.
In fact, their own writings had been
banned under the Nazis.

Assembling ‘Forbidden and Burned”
was not difficult because most of the
material came from books: which
Kindler had kept illegally in his li-
brary throughout the Hitler period.

“There wasn't anything especially
heroic in this,” explains Kindler.
“There were few checks by the police

(Archives)

--- Page 9 ---
and when they did check we usually
were sufficiently forewarned to make
a careful “purge” in advance and hide
the ‘dangerous books’ in the cellar.”

To collect writings by exiled Ger-
mans, Kindler and friends who trav-
elled abroad in the 30's bought
books in England, Switzerland, Hol-
land, and other countries. Before
crossing the border they slipped off
the original jackets and substituted
others, According to Kindler, the
customs men seldom discovered the
ruse.

From these sources Editors Kan-
torowicz and Drews put together
“Forbidden and Burned,” Out of ap-
proximately 1,000 names they selected
200 of the most important, got together
short biographies of the writers, and
picked out vital excerpts from their
works,

“Most of the pieces were selected
because they especially characterize
the author,” Kindler said. ‘The ma-
jority of the writings are essay-type
short items running no more than one
or two pages to an author.

“Some of the pieces explain the
difficulties encountered by emigrant
authors who left Germany and found
themselves on foreign soil. It is in

these works that one finds the
strongest feelings of kinship with
other lands, other customs, other
people,

“On the other hand those authors
who remained behind in Germany
underscore the spiritual conflict they
lived through. It goes without saying,
of course, that the book includes
many, many items which speak
strongly against militarism and naz-
ism."

Kindler further pointed out that a
good many of the authors in the book
are former left-wingers who have
since turned away from communism.
He named Arthur Koestler as an
example,

VEN MORE interesting than the
excerpts themselves are the short
biographical sketches which the edi-
tors have written about each author.
Berthold Brecht, for example ‘‘emi-
grated to Denmark in 1933, later lived
in Sweden and Finland, and since
1941 has been living in the USA.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Heinrich Fraenkel, the editors state,
went to Paris in 1933 “without a
passport,” later moved on to London,
then fought in the Spanish Civil War,
and came back to Germany in 1946
as correspondent for the “New Stales-
man and Nation.”

Hans Habe emigrated in 1934, join-
ed the Free French Army in 1939,
was taken prisoner in 1940 by the
Germans, escaped, and was among
the first American invasion troops in
France in 1944, Next year found Habe
in charge of the American occupation
organ in Germany, “Die Neue Zeitung.”

Perhaps most interesting of all the
biographies is that of Arthur Koest-
ler, world-famed former Communist
Party member who today is known
for his bitingly-harsh anti-Communist
tracts and books.

Koestler went to Paris in 1933,
served as correspondent for the
London News Chronicle during the
Spanish Civil War, was arrested by
Franco troops and sentenced to death,
freed upon British intervention, joined
the British army, and is currently
busy with further writings.

ND SO IT GOES with other
writers in the 215-page paper-
covered book. Annette Kolb, novelist,
left Germany for New York via Paris
and Switzerland, Werner Kraft, poet,
lived in Sweden, Paris and Palestine.

oS am.

Berlin, 1933: A student sorts banned books to be burned

6

Joe Lederer, novelist, was in China,
Austria, Italy and London,

‘Peter de Mendelssohn, novelist und
journalist, went to Paris and Eng-
land, and after the war returned to
Berlin where he is chief press con-
trol officer with the British Control
Commission, Ludwig Renn, novelist, —
also is back in Germany after living —
in Switzerland, Spain, France and
Mexico. 4

Herbert Schlueter, novelist, lived
in Spain, Yugoslovia and Italy before
returning to Germany. Karl Schnog,
satirist, was captured by the Gestapo
and placed in eight concentration
camps before US troops freed him,
He is the former editor of the US-
licensed satirical magazine, “Ulen-
spiegel,” in Berlin,

Some of the biographies are short
tragic notes. Hans Arno Joachim,
literary critic, was arrested by the
Gestapo in southern France and his
present whereabouts are “unknown,”
Carl Einstein, art historian, committed
suicide in France when the Germans
marched in at the end of 1940, Ernst
Toller, novelist and playright, who
went to the United States, committed
suicide in 1939.

“We don’t want our book mis-
understood, however,” said Kindler.
“It doesn't aim to prove there was
an organized resistance movement in
Germany, nor does it aim the show

(Continued on page 30)

(DENA-Bild)

APRIL 6, 19487

--- Page 10 ---
Cultural Goods Restituted

Several important cultural re-
stitution shipments were made during
the last quarter of 1947, the most not-
able being 95 items of furniture and
paintings, including Andrea del Sarto's
“Mary and Child” and Rembrandt's
“Head of Christ,” which went back to
the Netherlands in October. The first
shipment of cultural material restitut-
able to Yugoslavia was also effected
during October.

During the last quarter the Soviet
Union recovered paintings, about 7,000
natural history specimens, and the
famous 17th-century bronze Neptune
Fountain, while smaller shipments
went to Belgium, Greece (antique
vases), Italy (a 19th-century statue of
an angel which an SS general took
from the Benedictine Abbey at Monte
Cassino for a present to Hitler), and
Luxembourg (meteorological material).
France received 150 items, including
flags, armor, and guns of historical
value. Flags, a death mask and tomb
cross of the murdered Chancellor Doll-
fuss went to Austria.

Large shipments of library and
archival material were also made dur-
ing the last three months of 1947 to
Austria, Belgium, France and the So-
viet Union; the largest single ship-
ment, comprising almost 43,000 books
and 300 parcels of archival material,
went to Austria.

The shortage of transportation and
lack of facilities in which to house
valuable material continued to hamper
the program for the return of legiti-
imate holdings to German owners.

For example, the turnover to the
Wiesbaden Landes Museum of about
250,000 items from its painting, anti-
quity, and natural history collections,
which had been held in the Wies-
baden Collecting Point, was accom-
Plished, on paper, in December, the
Collecting Point retaining only the art
teference library and certain furniture
and display cases. The Landes Museum
Staff can now carry out a long-planned
Teorganization of the collections, but
the museum cannot be reopened to the
Public because its building is still
Tequisitioned by the Collecting Point.

The collections of the Staedel In-
stitute and the City Gallery of Frank-

APRIL 6, 1948

furt, for instance, have been entirely
reassembled, except for the sculpture,
which is being kept at the Wiesbaden
Collecting Points for protection dur-
ing October.

A notable event in the field of
art intelligence during the last quarter
was the recovery of 48 paintings
which had been stolen from a re-
pository at Wiessee, Bavaria. The
thieves, who were disguised as Mili-
tary Government officials and mem-
bers of an accredited military mission,
were arrested and sent to Munich for
trial, and the paintings were sent to
the Munich Collecting Point.

During the last quarter of 1947,
more than 1,600 items of cultural
value known or suspected to have
been removed from former German-
occupied. territories were confiscated
from their holders in Bavaria and
taken to the Munich Collecting Point
for screening.

Some 255 of these objects were
obtained through German declarations
of property acquired in former Ger-
man-occupied countries. Others, not-
ably four important 15th-century
wooden sculptures, had been looted
from the Goering train at Berchtes-
gaden in May, 1945, and were recover-
ed after an intensive investigation by
MG art experts.

An extremely valuable collection of
incunabula and first editions from the
former Nazi library “Fuer das Neue
Deutschland” (For the New Germany)
in the Bavarian village of Oberhaus
was transferred in the fall to the
Offenbach (Hesse) Archival Depot. The
processing of this material was greatly
simplified by the discovery of a cata-
log listing the owners from whom
about 60 percent of the material was
confiscated.

The German program for the re.
construction of war-damaged cultural
monuments was slowed down during
the last quarter of 1947 by the onset
of bad weather and the diversion of
labor and materials to the preparation
of housing and office space for bi-
partite and bizonal agencies at Frank-
furt. Nevertheless several museums

7

were reopened and a number of
important exhibitions were held.

Outstanding were the reopening
of the Staedel Institute and the
showing of almost 200 designs sub-
mitted in the competition for the
redesigning of the Ansbach building
in Ruedesheim, Hesse, Germany's
first major architectural competition
during the occupation period for an
individual project, both of which
took place in October; and the
exhibition of the bulk of the great
Kassel collection of Frans Hals, Rem-
brandt, and Rubens, which was placed
on public view in November for the
firet time since 1939,

The German National Museum at
Nuremberg, which contains some of
the best pieces of German medieval
and renaissance art, including works
by Duerer, Holbein, and Veit Stoss,
as well as a world-famous toy col-
lection, was formally reopened in
December,

In accordiance with Military
Government's policy of transferring
responsibility to German officials, the
responsibility for reporting on the
holdings and sales of licensed art
dealers was turned over to the
appropriate German agencies during
the last quarter of 1947, — Military
Governor's Report No. 30.

Work Experiment Planned

Clearance from the German author-
ities in Munich has been obtained
for a work project for next summer,
to be called “Experiment in Inter-
national Living.” Ten young Ameri-
can students or young faculty mem-
bers will spend two months with a
similar group of young Germans.
The work project will be selected by
the organization of the University of
Munich, which manages the recon-
struction program for the university.

Codeine Shortage Reported

No shortages of narcotic drugs for
medical needs were reported except
in the case of codeine, the supply of
which is reported short in Bavaria
and Bremen state. Leading manufact-
urers of codeine in 1947 increased
production, so that the reported
shortages appear to be due to distri-
bution difficulties. Measures have
been taken to remedy this situation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Friendship Train in Bremen, Maj. Gen, George P. Hays,
US Deputy Military Governor, addresses the crowd.

A chorus of German children greets the Friendship Train,
which was loaded with relief supplies, at Duesseldorf.

Standing in front of welcoming elephants at Duesseldorf
are: Mr. Richard McKinney, representing Oregon; Mr. G. B.
McKibbin, Gen. Clay's adviser on governmental affairs;
Mr. Otto J. Bothne, Idaho; Mrs. Otis Lampson, Washington;
Mr. Ralph Bartholomew, Alaska; Joseph Sklower, Montana.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Friendship Train Welcomed

The Pacific Northwest and Alaska Friendship Train,
loaded with 700 tons of relief supplies, toured the
Western Zones of Germany recently. Its load of food
and clothes was part of a 3,000-ton cargo which
arrived at Bremen on the SS Gretna Victory. Citi-
zens of the States of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and
Montana, and the Territory of Alaska donated the
shipment to relieve suffering in the US, British and
French Zones of Germany and Austria. The supplies,
which represent a cost of $2,000,000, originally were
scheduled to arrive at Christmas.
distributed by CRALOG,

They are being
(Photos by Bowlds, OMGUS PIO)

Mr. Richard McKinney, representing the governor of Ore-
gon, speaks to Germans who thronged Frankfurt’s Main
railroad station upon the arrival of the Friendship Train.

,

A 13-year old German girl reads a welcoming address”
upon the arrival of the Friendship Train at Mainz, ex-
pressing the thanks of Mainz citizens for gifts from the”
Americans living on the Pacific Coast and Alaska.

APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
§34,000 Telephones
Used by Germans

The civil telephone system consists
of 534,000 telephones in use by Ger-
man subscribers in the US-occupied
areas, excluding the state of Bremen,
an increase of some 7,000 main line
and 6,200 extension telephones during
the three-month period ending Nov. 30,
1947. In addition, there are more than
41,500 telephones serving the occupa-
tionol forces which are connected to
German switchboards operated and
maintained by the Reichspost.

Telephones currently in service on
Reichspost switchboards constitute
more than 75 percent of the total in
use in the same area at the end of
the fiscal year 1937, and an increase
of 21 percent during the past 12
months.

The number of telephone central
offices in service remained unchanged
during the reporting period at 1,713,
although the Reichspost was making
steady progress in the rehabilitation
and expansion of switchboards de-
spite the continued shortage of main-
tenance items and materials for new
construction, as well as plants for the
manufacture of telecommunications
equipment.

The number of central offices now
in service exceeds the total employed
in 1937 by 15, although the capacity
of equipment currently in use was
seriously reduced by damage suffered
during the war. — Military Gover-
nor's Report No. 30,

Scholarships Created

One hundred Berlin students will
teceive scholarships of RM 200 each
from an aid grant made by US Mili-
tary Government to a German Student
Scholarship Committe, education offi-
cials of OMG Berlin Sector have an-
nounced.

The scholarship will be awarded to
Students with outstanding scholastic
tecords who are in extreme financial
heed. They will be applicable at three
Berlin educational institutions — the
Technical University, Teachers Uni-
versity, and the University of Berlin.

APRIL 6, 1948

Aid Sought in Advancing GYA

An appeal to Americans in Germany
to help teach democracy among the
youth of Germany was made recently
by Miss Margaret Sorenson, EUCOM
GYA educational adviser in Frankfurt.
Miss Sorenson addressed an audience
of military and civilian personnel at
the Harnack House Berlin, after the
showing of two Hitler Youth films.
Part of her speech follows:

We cannot use words to explain to
the Germans that democracy works if
given a chance. We've got to demon-
strate it. Not just a few of us must do
the demonstrating. It will take all of
us by hundreds of big and little acts
of humanity, fair play, and under-
standing to teach the German youth
the real meaning, of democracy...

Years of indoctrination into Nazi
principles were followed by a com-
plete vacuum after Germany's defeat.
Youngsters who are accustomed to
having their thinking done for them,
and évery waking moment of their
day vigorously planned for them,
suddenly found themselves without a
director or a direction.

The children with whom you work
and play in GYA Youth Centers today
will be the leaders of the Germany
of tomorrow. You have a chance to

be the guiding influence in the lives
of some of these youth.

Re-orienting these children is not a
task that can be accomplished in an
hour, or a year, or even five years.
Their minds have, over a period of
years, been filled with the wrong
concepts and they cannot be quickly
changed. However, with all of work-
ing wholeheartedly on the task, they
can be changed.

To a German child, democracy can
be the lady who smiled at him as she
passed him on the street. It can be
the bundle of warm clothing that is
going to make the winter easier. It
can be the rollicking unrestrained
laughter of a group at play.

The American women are going to
have to take this job of reorientation
in hand and work at it. To be an
ideal democratic citizen you don't have
to understand the framework of demo-
cracy, but you must have from birth
lived in a democratic and free at-
mosphere. We must provide the Ger-
man youth with new moral, social, and
Political incentives to invite active
participation in the reconstruction of
their country.

You may be able to contribute only
an hour of your time each week.

Girls of the Wetzlar GYA Center write letters to Campfire Girls in
Detroit, Mich., thanking them for the receipt of shoes, clothing and
party kits. Mrs. Lawrence P. Fick (book in hand) wife of the Wetzlar
post GYA officer, helps the girls put their ideas on paper. (signal Corps)

9

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Perhaps you cannot even leave your
home to work in your local youth
center. Maybe your contribution would
be a weekly batch of cookies or a
cake.

Your contribution might also be the
contacting of stateside organizations
that would adopt a community, a
school, or a youth center with an
interchange of letters and food par-
cels. Another very small thing you
could do, but which is a very im-
portant event in the lives of the par-
ticipants, would be to invite small
groups of children into your home to
see how democracy works in everyday
life.

To assist Germany's youth to find
the right way of life, the US Army
has engaged in a gigantic program
unique in its history. The program is
known as the Army Assistance Pro-
gram to GYA.

One of its primary aims is to en-
courage, assist, and coordinate spon-
taneous volunteer activity. This Army
Assistance Program can do an efficient
and thorough job only with women as
volunteer workers, who, believing
wholeheartedly in the necessity of
the mission, give of their time and
resources,

Farm Schools Opened

The number of agricultural schools
and testing stations in operation in
the US Zone for 1947-48 showed a
marked increase over that of 1946-47.
A total of 153 winter schools re-
opened, an increase of 30 percent
over the previous year, The number
of special and secondary schools in
operation had increased 15 percent
and miscellaneous and research test-
ing stations 20 percent. Most of the
agricultural schools reported record
enrollments.

Railroad Repairs Speeded

Through an arrangement by the
Manpower and Transportation Divi-
sion of US Military Government, the
Office of Military Government, Ba-
varia, and the German agencies in
Bavaria, 100 workers are allocated
monthly to a large privately operated
railroad repair plant in Munich, to
speed repairs to rolling-stock.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

New Funds for Germans
| Six Educational Projects Aided |

More than RM 2,000,000 have been
allocated by OMGUS for the imple-
mentation of six major German educa-
tional projects originated by the
Education and Religious Affairs
Branch. The funds are part of the
large accumulation of Reichsmark re-
sulting from the sale of overt publica-
tions through the Information Control
Division, OMGUS. The allotment is
for the first quarter of 1948.

The first project is to provide per-
sonnel and materials for curriculum
and textbook writing centers which
have been established throughout the
US Zone. Dollar funds previously
were used to furnish textbooks, audio
visual aids, reference books and other
materials. The new funds will be used
to hire German personnel for these
centers, and to buy materials from the
German economy.

The second project concerns the
publication of educational bulletins
and periodicals for the practical guid-
ance of German educators. The largest
single project will consist of grants-
in-aid for selected educational activ-
ities and institutions. Specific examples
are the reorganization and reconstruc-
tion of German libraries, the promo-
tion of statistical and testing survey
units to study the German educational
system; foundations for educational
research, and planning units for school
outfitting and reconstruction.

Another project is one to provide
scholarships and fellowships for pro-
mising young students and educators
who otherwise would be unable to
complete their education. The can-
didates for continued education will
be selected by German boards es-
tablished for this special purpose.

The educational film program is the
most comprehensive of the six pro-
jects. The Reorientation Branch of the
Civil Affairs Division, Department of
the Army, in Washington spent almost
$1,000,000 to provide Military Govern-
ment with five hundred 16-mm sound
film projectors and 100 sound films, in
addition to the film stock necessary
to reproduce these films in German.

Each Kreis in the US Zone will have
at least one projector for use in a plan

10

under which schools will see the films
during the day, youth groups during
the early evening, and adults at night.
Newsreels also will be produced at
frequent intervals for use in this
program.

The sixth project is the plan to
employ consultants and_ technical
assistants at OMGUS and in the Laen-
der education offices for the purpose
of advising and assisting MG offices
in the educational program. These
consultants will be trained German
educators with practical experience.

Food Hoarders Hit

Food black marketeers and food
hoarders were condemned as two of
the main causes of Germany's present
food ration difficulties by Paul F. Tag-
gart, chief of the Food and Agriculture
Branch, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, in
an OMGWB radio broadcast to the
German people.

The black market in food “could
not exist to its present extent if it
were not for the fact that many people
are willing to alleviate their own
hardships at the expense of other
people,” Mr. Taggart said. “The black
marketeers will not suffer. Many
honest people will.”

In commenting on the general food
ration situation, Mr. Taggart pointed
out that the United States and Great
Britain are exceeding “their self-im-
posed pledge on food imports” into
Germany. This imported food, “when
added to what the Germans themselves
grew, should not only have allowed
a minimum ration to be met but should
have resulted in an increase of the
ration,” he said.

Most Favored Films

On the basis of attendance and the
general reaction by German audiences,
the most favored American plays
shown thus far in Germany are “The
First Legion,” “Three Men on @
Horse,” “The Voice of the Turtle,”
“Pursuit of Happiness,” “Biography,”

“The Skin of Our Teeth,” “Our
Town,” and “Thunder Rock.”
APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

Frankfurter Rundschau, commenting
on the Communist coup in Czecho-
slovakia, said:

“The web spun by the many official
statements which hid the background
and events on the Czech political
stage has suddenly been torn asunder.
The so-called ‘People’s Democracy’
is revealed in its true light: the form
of tyranny of this postwar period that
tries to hide its motives behind empty
talk about ‘true freedom’ and ‘the
struggle against Western reaction...’

“What makes the death of Masaryk
(Czech foreign minister) so significant
is the fact that here a man preferred
the freedom of death to life in a
dictatorship.”

Muenchner Merkur said:
further evidence of the trend in
Prague were needed, Masaryk's
plunge from a window supplied it...
Masaryk living was a facade for the
Communist dictatorship, With his
death the last illusion has vanished.’

Fraenkische Landeszeitung (Ans-
bach) said Masaryk used his Slavic
heart and his Western spirit to bring
about a compromise between East and
West. However:

“If any

“He was forced to deviate more
and more from the line laid down by
his great father; the time came when
Compromise was no longer possible
and there was only the choice
between submission or flight.”

Main Post (Wuerzburg) expressed
the attitude of the Sudeten German
tefugees toward recent events in
Prague:

“Three years ago the land beyond
the Bohemian Mountains was still
the ancestral abode of over 2,0000,000
Germans. They lost home and hearth,
business and profession; they were not
even permitted to pray at graves of
their dead, Many perhaps will find
Consolation in thinking of what would
have happened to them if they still
Were citizens of the country where
the Red Star now rises.”

APRIL 6, 1948

Communist Coup in Czechoslovakia

The Offenbach Post said:

“Czechoslovakia has been trans-
formed into a ‘people's democracy.’
How does a_ political minority
achieve this aim? How does a whole
country submit to the blessings of a
people, against the people? The first
prerequisite is a Communist minister
of the interior who has command
power over the police...”

“A formidable threat for all of
Europe has arisen...”

Weser-Kurier (Bremen) headlined
its editorial “The Pistol," because
“once Hitler regarded Czechoslovakia
as a pistol placed against the chest
of Soviet Russia. The Soviets have
turned the muzzle of the pistol by
180 degrees and directed it west-
wards... The world is shaken as it
becomes aware that these events
preclude the last possibility of relax-
ing the tension between East and
West. There is one single hope:
namely, that the Marshall Plan and
the reconstruction of Western Europe
will be greatly speeded up by this
alarm signal from the East..."

Stuttgarter Nachrichten said that
“now a minority is ruling Czecho-
slovakia by means of violence, terror
and mass demonstrations,’ and
asked: “Who will be next?"

“In Germany's eastern zone one
can see tendencies towards a one-
party dictatorship. ‘National People’s
Congresses’ have a strong resem-
blance to the Czech ‘Action Commit-
tees’... Western Europe, underfed

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intended to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not nec-
essarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions,

11

and without proper leadership, is in
danger of assuming the role of the
petrified rabbit vis-a-vis the Eastern
viper. For eight months we have been
waiting for the Marshall Plan that
perhaps would have been able to
strengthen the power of resistance of
the Czech people. Now Moscow has
its hands free for new actions... (As
for Germany) it is up to those who
are just as interested in our democratic
existence as we ourselves to make
the next move. There still is time.”

Solid Foundation

Weser-Kurier (Bremen) said the
results of the recent London and
Brussels conferences of Western
European nations have created a
solid foundation for the working of
the Marshall Plan:

“The strong Soviet pressure for a
solid Eastern bloc automatically call-
ed a Western European bloc into
being... For the first time the
Western Powers have made decisions
affecting Germany's future without
Russian participation... In Brussels
the British-French Dunkirk Pact was
extended to include the Benelux
nations (Belgium, Luxembourg and the
Netherlands) with the difference that
it is now directed against any
aggressor, not merely Germany...
The United States now has some
assurance that the Marshall Plan
will benefit an organized Western
Europe...”

Ruhr and Imports

Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth) said
the London agreement to put the
Ruhr under international control, “so
that all parts of Europe including Ger-
many may have access to its coal,
coke and steel, is a very pretty show
of brotherly union in which only the
last of the brothers, Germany, has
nothing to say...”

If half of Europe regards the Ruhr
as an inexhaustible strong box into
which to dip, with what will Ger-
many pay for its imports?”

Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-
bischofsheim) said the results of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
London conference are a cause both
* for new hope and for sorrow:

“The unity of Germany is destroyed
and to restablish it lies not within
our power, but within that of the
foreign governments who hold sway
in Germany.... It would be wrong
to make London or the creation of
the Frankfurt Economic Council re-
sponsible. Both London and Frank-
furt represent decisions that were
postponed as long as possible, but
were the inevitable outcome of Rus-
sia's intransigent attitude. That must
be clearly stated as against the Com-
munists’ claim of being the only
champions of German unity. Their
primary object is not Germany but
the extension of SOVZON....

“Lord Pakenham said that if the
Marshall Plan is successful we'll win
not only western, but also eastern
Europe. Then the unity of Germany
will be regained. But it will come
from the West, not from the East.”

The Leipzig Fair

Weser-Kurier (Bremen) pointed to
an “evident discrepancy between the
remarkable energy with which the
‘Leipzig Fair has tried to regain its
old position and the very modest
results.” The paper observed:

“One sign of the times is that of
a manufacturer of small, hand-oper-
ated household spinning wheels who
received enough orders in the first
two days of the Fair to keep busy
for two years....”

Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Regens-
burg) said:

“The Leipzig Fair, the administra-
tive efficiency of which should not
be minimized, has come to an end
without fulfilling expectations ....
Participants went home unsatisfied,
and many an exhibitor will consider
whether or not to exhibit again. ...
In view of these facts there is no
use for the Eastern Zone to pretend...
that everything in the Soviet Zone is
in perfect order....”

Marburger Presse said this year's
was the greatest Leipzig Fair since
the war:

“According to both buyers and ex-
hibitors, interzonal trade has strongly
increased.... Although we are still
regrettably far from free trade be-
tween the zones it has been shown

INFORMATION BULLETIN

that many hindrances can be over-
come.... The West is not only in-
terested in buying in Leipzig, but is
offering goods in increasing mea-
sure.... It is no longer merely a
show.... In this respect much pro-
gress has been made.” -é

Donau-Kurier (Ingolstadt) said that
the most depressing feature of the
Fair was the evidence of the rapid
“Russianizing” of Eastern Germany.

Drift in Europe

Kasseler Zeitung said that the drift
in Europe is definitely towards Com-
munism and that the need for hurry
is great:

“The fact that in 1949 Norway will
draw nine-tenths of its grain re-
quirements from Russia and will de-
liver its surplus fats and herring to
that country leads to the conclusion
that Norway will be the next state to
be economically bound to Moscow....
If one regards the map of Europe and
considers the recent elections, one
does not require much imagination to
envision Europe completely in Mos-
cow's shadow.... There is not much
time for the Marshall Plan to become
effective..... Our currency reform
must accompany it, otherwise Mar-
shall Plan help for Europe will rapidly
become illusory. Even Switzerland
begins to fear Bolshevist infiltration.”

‘Leaves of Grass“

Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
carried a lengthy review of a new
German translation of Walt Whitman's
“Leaves of Grass." Emil Belzner called
‘Whitman “a sort of eternal clock that
ticks friendship for the world and that
can never stop. Even if one were to
print him on rag paper and bind him
in pigskin he would still not be sil-
enced. He would still give us hope
for the good sense and happiness of
the world.”

Port Fund Authorized

In order to enable German shipping
agents to act on an equal footing with
foreign shipping agents, a fund of
$10,000 has been made available in
the Bremen port area to be used for
making disbursements to the German
agents for food stores and oi] bun-
kers from the US Army Quarter-
master.

12

found in Hamburg is restored to its
former place in the Church. (DENA-Bild) _

8,000 Rail Cars

German rail cars plants in the Bi-
zonal Area will start assembly line
production of new freight cars this —
summer under a building program —
scheduled to increase the Reichsbahn ~
car park in the two zones by 21,022
new cars by the end of 1949, the
Bipartite Commerce and _ Industry —
Group announced.

The first cars are due to roll off
the assembly lines in July, and 3,000
cars are to be provided by the end
of this year, Thereafter, production”
plans call for delivery of 1,000 cars
monthly until the program is com-'
pleted.

The first new production of its kin
in the combined zones since the end
of hostilities, these will be open cai
of about 27 tons carrying capacity
suitable for transporting coal, stee
pit props, agricultural produce a
similar items.

Bipartite officials laud the progran
not only because of the additional
rolling stock it will produce, but bes
cause of the morale factor involve
It will give Germans hope in the pro-
ductivity of their own plants, com-
merce and industry, officials stated.

APRIL 6, 1!

--- Page 16 ---
Directive Requires
Uniform Billing Plan

In an effort to curtail delinquencies
in personal accounts, EUCOM Head-
quarters issued a directive aimed at
providing a uniform system of billing,
collecting, and accounting for charges
assessed all US Zone occupation per-
sonnel for billets, personal servants,
and meals furnished German em-
ployees at US Government expense.

The new regulation requires com-
manding officers to designate an
agency within their command, other
than the post sales officers and com-
missary officers, to issue invoices for
such charges to individuals, non-
appropriated funds, messes, commercial
and other activities, and forward the
original to the debtor. Invoices will
be issued at the beginning of each
month, to cover charges for the preced-
ing month,

Bills not paid by the 20th of each
month will become delinquent and
will be transferred to the US Army
Finance Office, at which place they
must be paid by the debtor. Delin-
quencies will be reported also to the
post commander and to the Chief of
Finance, EUCOM.

EUCOM officials stated that persons
leaving a station permanently will be
required to obtain clearance from the
billing agency, and to settle all due
accounts, The directive charges the
Chief of Finance, EUCOM, with the
responsibility for periodically auditing
the accounts of billing agencies, for
maintaining records of delinquent ac-
counts, and for taking action to col-
lect such accounts.

Zeiss Output Grows

The Carl Zeiss works at Jena,
which lost 9,427 machines and 7,000
employees through dismantling, is
Staging an energetic comeback.

With Soviet permission to pursue
all phases of normal peacetime pro-
duction, this cooperative plant is
now producing at 80 percent of its
1938 capacity in photo lenses and
18 percent of its over-all 1938 output.

With only 573 machines left after
dismantling was completed in March,
1947, plant workers had assembled
and built 1,220 machines by Novem-
ber.—ICD's News of Germany.

APRIL 6, 1948

OMGUS Suspends Extraditions

OMGUS announced that extradition
of persons wanted by Czechoslovakia
for trial have been suspended because
Czechoslovakia had failed to comply
with the terms of its agreement re-

8

by the Czechoslovak authorities to the
Soviet authorities, also on Nov. 20.
The Czechoslovak Government was
informed that no action would be
taken on any requests for the extradi-

Five Czechoslovakian students in Bavaria, who fled from Czechoslovakia

when the Communists took over, gather for a chat,

garding two individuals already ex-
tradited.

The first of these cases was an in-
dividual extradited in July 1946, for
trial by Czechoslovakia as a war
criminal. At the time of taking deliv-
ery, the representative of the Czecho-
slovak Government signed a declara-
tion, in the form customarily request-
ed by the American authorities, stat-
ing that “my Government agrees that
if the person is not tried and convict-
ed within six months from the date he
is so delivered, he will be returned
upon request.”

Although this individual was tried
and acquitted and request for his re-
turn was duly made by the American
authorities, he was not returned but
was delivered to the Soviet authorities
on Nov. 20, 1947.

The second case was of a similar
nature. In this instance the individual
was held for more than a year with-
out trial, and again after his return
had been requested, he was delivered

13

(DENA-Bild)

tion of persons from the US. Zone to
Czechoslovakia until these two in-
dividuals were returned to US custody
or until a full and satisfactory ex-
planation is given of the reasons for
which they were turned over to the
Soviet authorities,

Plants for Reparations

A total of 767 plants and part plants
had been made available for repara-
tions from the three western zones of
Germany by Dec. 31, 1947, Of these,
84 are in the French Zone, 187 in the
US Zone, and 496 in the British Zone.

The Bizonal Area plants total 683,
of which 327 war and advance delivery
factories had .been approved for re-
parations by the ACA Coordinating
Committee prior to the fourth quarter
of 1947,

In a list released in October, 356
plants were declared surplus by the
commanders of the US and British
Zones under the revised Bizonal Level
of Industry Plan, and thus available
for reparations. The US Zone list of
187 plants has been made final.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
ERMAN POLITICAL and govern-

mental leaders emerged during
1947 from the provincialism which
characterized their activities during
1946 and began to concern themselves
with the larger aspects of the “Ger-
man question.”

The widening of fields of interest of
German politicians was indicated by
frequent conferences of party and
government leaders, who sought to
emerge from the narrow confines of
their respectives states and zones and
to form ties with their counterparts
all over Germany.

The future structure of the German
state, its position among the nations
of the world and, above all, the uni-
fication of Germany, were favorite
topics on the agenda of all political
gatherings. There was evidence of
competition between party and
government leaders for the initiative
in leading Germany towards uni-
fication.

In spite of the fact that state govern-
ment leaders belonged to one or an-
other of the various political parties,
their views on many issues frequently
differed from the policy established
by their party headquarters. The
parties sought to limit the influence
of these leaders, claiming for them-
selves alone the sphere of national
politics, They viewed with apprehen-
sion the frequent conferences of the
state leaders.

The ministers president were among
the first to show an interest in national
politics, On Feb.17, 1947, the heads
of the states in the American and
British Zones met in Wiesbaden for
the first time since the beginning of
the occupation. With the Moscow
Conference of Foreign Ministers in
mind, the conference decided to estab-
lish an information bureau to gather

INFORMATION BULLETIN

background material for use in nego-
tiations affecting Germany's future.

The opening of the second inter-
zonal conference of heads of states in
Munich on June 5, 1947, was attended
by the ministers president from all
four zones. The ministers president of
the Soviet Zone withdrew from the*
conference after the opening session.

Material for Political Parties
was taken from a cumulative
review by the Civil Administra-
tion Division, in US Mlitary
Government Report No. 30.

The remaining ministers president
drew up resolutions for submission to
the Allied Control Council on matters
pertaining to economics, food and
agriculture, and similar subjects.

URING THE remainder of 1947

the ministers president of the
American and British Zones met again
to discuss matters pertaining to the
establishment of the Economics Coun-
cil, dismantling, and other matters of
current. interest. However, none of
these conferences brought any tangi-
ble results.

The general tendency on the part of
the participants was to regard the
states as the basis upon which any
higher levels of government were ‘o
be formed. They were inclined to
favor ex officio representation by the
state executives on the governing
bodies of these levels.

Meanwhile, the German political
parties were moving towards more
effective national organization. Each
sought to smooth out its own internal
difficulties and to establish in some
form a coordinating body for the

14

whole of Germany. The tendency to-
wards uniformity of thought and cen-
tralism of organization was most pro-
nounced and most successful among

the leftist parties. The others merely |
succeeded in establishing consultive
bodies with little authority over the
autonomy of the state parties.

The unifiers of the non-Marxist —
parties, confronted with the often
conflicting aims of the state organiza-—
tions, preferred a confederation of the
parties rather than centralization. The
problems that confronted the unifiers |
of the rightist parties were both pro-
grammatic and organizational.

The parties associated with the
Christian Democratic Union (CDU)
found themselves unable to synthesize _
their own right and left wings on
socio-economic policy, and their
federalist and centralist wings on
policies of German governmental
structure. The Democratic parties,
though much more centralist-minded
and hence less troubled by the struc-—
tural question than the Christian Dem-
ocrats, found the question of soci
economic policy just as troublesom

HESE PROBLEMS of policy in the

two non-Marxist parties wer
further complicated by the organiza-
tional difficulties inherent in their
very composition. Personal following
has played an important role in both,
While the left was able to sublimate,
by its crusade for social change, the
personal ambitions of some of its
leaders, such a unifying program has
been lacking among the right J
parties.

The political and social tolerance 0}
the rightist parties shielded non-con-
formism and made party discipline
impossibility. The claims of personal
leadership have been further compli-

--- Page 18 ---
cated by the maneuverings of the
party Jeaders in each state for favor-
able positions in the event that na-
tional unification should become a
reality.

One problem troubled all parties—
the relation between the party or-
ganization and the government. Dur-
ing the early period of the occupation,
due primarily to a shortage of per-
sonnel, leading government officials
frequently occupied corresponding
positions in the party organization.
Subsequently, as the parties developed
more fully, there was a noted tendency
to avoid such “personal-unions,” or
dual roles.

The leftist parties succeeded during
1947 in achieving not only a clear
functional separation between the
party officers and the party represent-
atives in the government, but also in
establishing in matters of general
policy the unquestioned superiority of
the party officers,

The problem still remains unsolved
in the case of the right wing parties.
In almost every state organization
“personal union” of party and state
offices is still being practiced. The
question as to who determines policy
also remains unanswered.

Repeatedly, especially in the case of
the CDU-CSU (Christian Social Union),
party leaders who do not hold govern-
ment positions claimed for the party
the sole right to determine policy. On
the other hand just as frequently,
CDU-CSU cabinet members from the
states met in order to mould the par-
ty’s stand on given issues.

In contrast to 1946, the parties
devoted many efforts in 1947 to pro-
blems concerning their programs. By
the end of the year policy had been
established in all but afew ideological
fields, In the case of the leftist parties
the Social Democratice Party (SPD)
and the Communist Party of Germany
(KPD) uniformity of party line on
major issues was maintained through-
out the zone and even in all of the
western zones; in the case of the
others, a general course was maintain-
ed for the whole of the US Zone with
allowance for local and state varia-
tions.

Policy in each party was usually
Made by a select group of members,
holders of high Positions in the re-

APRIL 6, 1948

(Signal Carpe)

Dr. Emest A, Flotow (left), chief of the Civil Administration Division,
Office of Military Government, Bremen, presents a shipment of 100
packages of food and clothing to Dr. Friedrich Donand, president of the
Bremen Evangelical Church. The shipment was sent by the! Christ Evan-
gelical Lutheran Church in Oak Park, III, for distribution among needy
Germans, Mr. Thomas F. Dunn, OMGB director, is on the right.

spective organizations. The proposed
declarations of program were sub-
sequently approved by party conven-
tions. Pre-convention discussions
among the membership or in the party
publications was a rarity.

BOVE STATE level little contact
existed between parties. Each con-
tinued to lead its own existence, func-
tioning along vertical lines within the
framework of its organization. All
efforts to establish contact between
the parties on the national level failed.
The eastern zone CDU made two pro-
posals involving interparty coopera-
tion and the Socialist Unity Party
(SED) made a third.
The first of these schemes was
worked out on March 15, 1947, at the

Berlin meeting of the Coordinating /

Committee of the CDU and CSU of
the four zones. Inspired by the CDU
of the eastern zone, it proposed to
the leaders of the political parties “to
meet as soon as possible, in order to
prepare the first stage of an all-Ger-
man representation of the people, and
to take its place until this representa-
tion is a reality.”

15

Besides the CDU-CSU, the Liberal
Democratic Party (LDP) of the Soviet
Zone and SED soon expressed their
willingness under certain conditions
to join such a body composed of party
representives. The SPD rejected it,
making its participation contingent
upon the admission of the party in
the Soviet Zone. Subsequently other
demands were made by the SPD. Later,
the non-KPD parties of the western
zones made their support of the plan
contingent upon SPD participation.
The plan was shelved after several
weeks of agitation,

A counter move to this proposed
“national representation” of the par-
ties was introduced om May 9, 1947,
immediately after the ¢losing of the
Moscow Conference, when the CSU
minister president of Bavaria, Dr. Hans
Ehard, sent an invitation to his col-
leagues in all the German states to
meet in Munich for the discussion of
matters of interest to the whole of the
German people.

After the failure of the national rep-
resentation plan, the CDU in the
Soviet Zone proposed the creation of
a national consultative body. This

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
plan, less pretentious than the former
one, received almost no attention.

Towards the end of November, the
~ SED began propagandizing for the
convocation of a People’s Congress
which was to elect German represent-
atives to the London Conference. In
spite of the short notice, all non-KPD
political parties in the western zones
as well as the state governments, trade
unions, and other organizations of the
western zones quickly rejected this
idea, most of them describing it as an
SED propaganda maneuver.

HE SO-CALLED Congress conven-

ed on Dec. 5 in Berlin. According

to the official figures released by the

election committee of the Congress,

three-fourths of the delegates came

from the Soviet Zone and Berlin. Two-

thirds of the remaining participants in

the Congress were bona fide members

of the Communist parties in the
western zones,

Before adjourning, the Congress
passed a resolution calling upon the
foreign ministers to hear its delegation
plead for German unity and a just
peace. A 17-man committee was elect-
ed to represent the German people at
London before the foreign ministers
conference. All but two of this London
delegation originated in the Soviet
Zone. The two are KPD leaders in the
British and American Zones.

The Congress explained the failure
to include more representatives from
the western zones in the proposed
delegation by claiming uncertainty as
to the parties and organizations that
they represented.

The Congress also elected a 47-man
permanent committee whose function
it would be to carry out the terms of
the resolution. This committee’s im-
mediate problem was to contact rep-
resentative organizations in the
western zones and recruit some out-
standing personalities for the London
delegation, which would then be ex-
panded to include such additional
members.

However, when the question of the
reception of this delegation was
brought up by the Soviet delegate at
the last meeting of the foreign
ministers, the US delegate replied that
the. US position was that responsible
German representatives should be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

~

given an opportunity to present their
views at the peace conference, but
that the present proposal was not
acceptable.

The lack of cooperation between the
parties above state level, however,
did not prevent them from carrying
on debates in the zones. The KPD-
SED conducted a well designed cam-
paign against the SPD leaders, being
careful to differentiate between the
leadership, which it attacked, and the
SPD membership which it hoped to
convince. In their attacks on the CDU-
CSU the Communists did not show
such consideration. The party was
condemned as the mouthpiece of re-
action and as the spiritual heirs of
the Third Reich,

HE SPD, WHICH feared at first the
attacks from the left, soon dis-
covered its ineffectiveness. Of late,

the Socialists are inclined to ignore.

the KPD, centering their fire directly
on the master of the KPD, the SED.
The relations between the SPD and
the CDU-CSU changed somewhat for
the better. Both parties found their
tespective sociological lines of de-
marcation to be firm and only slighly
overlapping. The right wing parties
on the whole were both less agile
and less voluble in the field of combat-
propaganda.

The membership of the parties has
remained almost constant since the
middle of 1947. The SPD and the
Democratic Parties (DPD) registered
small gains, the KPD lost somewhat
and the CDU-CSU held its own. Three
out of a hundred inhabitants in the
US Zone were registered members of
a political party. The same average
applied to the other two western
zones.

Germans Get 162 Craft

The transfer to the German economy
of 162 deep sea and inland water
craft, originally allocated to the
United States by the Tripartite Naval
Commission, has been completed. The
bizonal Executive Director for Trans-
port has rechartered 52 percent of
these vessels to individual operators
and shipping companies, 25. percent to
the German Waterway Authority, 15
percent’ to. waterway engineering
firms, and eight percent to miscel-
laneous German agencies.

16

Movies for Youths
Provided in Berlin

More than 150 movie subjects and
44 film strips, dealing with almost
every aspect of life in democratic
countries, is available to Berlin
schools, youth clubs, and civic groups
on a free loan basis.

The films are provided by the US
Military Government as part of a pro-
gram designed to provide Germans
with up-to-date information on the
culture, structure, and life of demo-
cratic countries. Subjects include
science, education, government and
politics, history, industry, arts, geo-
graphy, and sports.

Although intended primarily for use
in the American Sector of Berlin,
applications from other sectors of the
city will be considered if accom-
panied by written permission of the
occupying power in the Sector con-
cerned.

Phone Traffic in Germany

Long distance telephone _ traffic
reached a new high in October, 1947;
with a total of more than 9,000,000
originating calls completed in the
US-occupied areas, excluding the
state of Bremen, The volume of calls
in November showed a slight re-
duction to 8,400,000, the same volume
handled during August, the previous
peak month.

Scrap Collection Point

A central collecting point for Army-
owned scrap in EUCOM has been
established at Aschaffenburg, on the
Main River, to simplify collection
and storage of metal scrap from US
Zone installations. Previously, scrap
metal was stored by each Post until
such a time as it could be sold and
shipped.

Switchboards Being Built

One of the most critical items of
supply in the communications field
has been manually-operated, long-
distance switchboards. Considerable
progress in new construction and
repair of these facilities has been
achieved in recent months,

APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 20 ---
Food for the Germans

HE QUESTION is _ frequently
T asked: “Why is it that more food
is not sent to Germany when there is
plenty of food in the world, and
countries like the United States and
Canada have large surpluses of
essential foods such as wheat and
meat?”

The statement that there is plenty
of food in the world for everyone, if
it were fairly divided, is incorrect.
There is a world food shortage, and
Germany is by no means the only
sufferer. In addition to the shortage
of food, the hungry nations of the
world lack the purchasing power to
buy such food as is available.

There are two main reasons for the
world food shortage. During the past
10 years, despite wars and famine, the
population of the world has increased.
It is estimated that since 1936-1937
the population of Europe has increas-
ed by 12,000,000, that of North Amer-
ica by 10,000,000, and Asia’s by
100,000,000. But during that same
10 years the area of the world under
cultivation has shown no increase.
Also, one ,of the costs of war has been
the interruption in scientific develop-
ment in food production.

The second main reason is that dur-
ing World War II, vast stretches of
land in both Europe and the Far East
were devastated. The great rice-grow-
ing countries of Burma, Java, Siam,
and the Malay States were overrun
by the Japanese invader and their
Productive capacity largely destroyed.

In the 1914-18 war, the supplies of
food from the Far East were merely
dammed up and were released after
the war was over to help feed a
hungry Europe. At the end of the
1939-45 war, however, no such sup-
Plies had accumulated and it was
Necessary instead to send large
quantities of grain to the rice-growing
Countries of the Far East to prevent
the people there from starving.

In addition to the devastation of
lands in the Far East, the grain fields
of the Ukraine and in much of eastern
Europe have been destroyed. In pre-
War days, the countries of eastern
Europe exported, chiefly to western

APRIL 6, 1948

and central Europe, about 6,000,000
tons of breadgrains annually. There
have been no appreciable exports
from these countries this year and so
western Europe must turn to North
America, Argentina, and Australia for
her supplies.

N ORDER to deal with such a world

food situation, two international
bodies have been set up. First is the
Food and Agriculture Organization of
the United Nations which was formally
established in Quebec, Canada, in
1945. Its function is to deal with the

Food for Germans was adapted
from material contained in an
announcement by the Public Re-
lations Branch, Control Commis.
sion for Germany (British Ele-
ment), and from information pro-
vided by the Food and Agricul-
ture Group, OMGUS Office of the
Economics Adviser.

problems of world food shortages and
surpluses on a permanent basis.

But more important for immediate
purposes, is the International -Emer-
gency Food Council which was estab-
lished as a result of the meeting of
the FAO in Washington in May, 1946,
to deal with the immediate world food
crisis. The IEFC, a voluntary agency
composed of 32 nations of the world,
recommends to member nations how
the most important foods in short
supply shall be allocated.

Of. the major nations, only the
Soviet Union, Argentina and Spain do
not belong. The member nations of
the IEFC control among them the ex-
port of the bulk of the world’s supplies
of cereal grains, fats and oils, meat,
peas and’ beans, and sugar, all of them
commodities in great demand.

The three western zones of Ger-

many in terms of total food energy -

together form the second largest im-
porting area of food-stuffs in the
world. Of the 28,297,000 tons of cereal
grains imported by all countries of
the world in 1946/47, Great Britain

17

imported 5,676,000 tons, the three
Western Zones of Germany 3,595,000,
and India 2,300,000,

Up to the present time virtually all
imports of food for the Bizonal Area
of Germany have been paid for by
Britain and the United States in
dollars.

The question is repeatedly asked,
“Why does Germany not obtain more
vegetables from Holland, margarine
from Denmark and so on?” The answer
is that the occupying powers must
spend their funds prudently, seeking
food of the highest calorie value at
the best price (bargains). A dollar
spent on wheat, for example, will
provide 10 times as many calories as
one dollar's worth of vegetables from
Holland, and four times the calories
of Danish butter.

Although a few countries today
have food surpluses, those surpluses
must be divided fairly among those
nations which are in most desperate
need. Germany gets a very full share,
and other countries of the world have
miade concessions and sacrifices so
that Germany should not starve.

IROM TIME to time, reports come

in to the effect that certain food-
stuffs have been offered to Germany
by foreign firms, and that the occupy-
ing powers have refused to allow such
offers to be entertained. This is, of
course, nonsense; all food offers
brought to the attention of the Military
Governments are most carefully con-
sidered.

In many cases, on investigation, it
develops that the supposedly avail-
able foodstuffs are not at all surplus
to the needs of the countries concern-
ed; and, that firms concerned are not
in possession of an export license. In
other cases the food is priced far too
high as compared with available foods
from other sources.

The United States and British tax-
payers have put up enough money to
support the minimum feeding needs of
the German population—provided the
money be spent prudently, and Ger-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
man agricultural, collection and food
distribution offices do their part. There
is not money available for luxury
items, or for higher priced offers of
standard items,

As a result of the care with which
US and British appropriated funds
have been expended, the food imports
that will be received by the Bizonal
Area this year should total more than
10 percent above the planned require-
ment for which funds were originally
requested, For the 12-month period
which began last summer and will end
with next harvest, these imported
foods will contribute nearly a ton and
a half of food value for every 10 col-
lected in the Bizonal Area.

Of the 1,800 to 1,900 calories aver-
age per person per day which is being
distributed through the official ration
this year, only 800 are coming from
German production and more than
1,100 are being provided by imported
foods supplied by the two Allied
governments.

As Germany's industrial output in-
creases and she is able to provide
more funds to pay for imports, it will

be undoubtedly possible to include a
higher proportion of such more-ex-
pensive foods as can be obtained over
and above the international allocations
of the standard, less expensive food
items.

But Germany, like many other
countries of the world, must produce
a great deal more of her own food
and improve the collection of the food
she raises. The collection and distri-
bution of food is the responsibility of
the Germans, and they themselves
must take steps to ensure that the
food is grown and the full amount
collected for distribution to the
population.

The occupying powers in the British
and US Zones do not consume any
indigenous food, nor is any of it ex-
ported. Rather, they are carrying a
heavy load of bringing food in at the
expense of British and US citizens in
order to help western Germany to
reestablish her own industrial and
food economy. How quickly they can
be successful will be largely dependent
upon the efforts of each individual
German.

‘Athan

Tunnel

Lid saciafant
Glotteis, Eiszapfen.

The double tunnel at Eschenlohe, on the main road between Munich and

Garmisch, has been reopened.

During the war it served as an under-

ground Messerschmitt plane factory. Heavy charges of dynamite were

used to clear the tunnel for the resumption of traffic.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(DENA-Bild)

18

Youths Are Advised
To Protect Rights

Citing that governmental  of-
ficials were servants of the people
in a democratic state, Albert ca
Schweizer, director of the Civil Ad.
ministration Division, OMG Bavaria,
told delegates to the Bavarian State
Youth Ring conference that demo-
cratic groups and individuals must_
combat “totalitarian propaganda” and
recognize that the “new democracy
still lacks experience in practice and
needs support.”

He told the youths, who represent

their new form of government by —
informing themselves “about the —
rights of individuals" and the ways
such rights could be exerted, 5

“It is also essential that individually ~
you demand democratic practices in ©
yourselves, in your officials, and in ~
your political leaders," he said,
“Inasmuch as they are elected by
you, they represent you and are
accountable to you for their official
acts. See that they consult your
wishes and report fully to you through
public meetings or press and radio.”

Stating that all possible govern-
mental power should be reserved for
local administration, he said that “the
principle of parliamentary gove:
ment in local matters had not alwaag
been adhered to.

“Sight has been lost of the fa
that the chief local official, whether
he be mayor or county executive,
responsible to the council that has
elected him,” he said, “If the local

hold the chief official responsible
it, the theory of democratic parlia-
mentary government is lost."

He said that new election laws
were being drafted to make elec:
tions more democratic, adding thi
Bavarian elections have not yet hat
“open ballots allowing the peopl
to choose their representatives
name, rather than by a closed party

“It remains to be seen whether
Bavarian legislature will liberalize tht
methods of election themselves, as it
is entirely in their province to do so,
he continued.

APRIL 6, 11

--- Page 22 ---
$467,500 Contract
For Seeds Signed

A $467,500 seed contract, calling
for the immediate delivery to the Bi-
zonal Area of 590 tons of fodder beet
and fodder seed, has been concluded
with French seed dealers, the Bi-
partite Food and Agriculture Group
has announced.

Between July 1, 1947, and July 1,
1948, $ 31,000,000 worth of seeds and
seed potatoes will have been pur-
chased for the Bizonal Area, $23,000,000
of these having been obtained from
European countries. Chief sources of
the European-purchased seed have
been Great Britain, Holland, France,
Denmark, Italy, Hungary and Bulgaria.

It was also announced that 51,000
tons of fresh herring, out of a total
purchase of 112,000 tons contracted
for with Norway on Feb, 16, have
already been delivered.

Bipartite officials pointed out that
while every effort is being made to
obtain food for Bizonal Germany from
European sources, a high percentage
of the food offers consist of items too
highly priced in relation to their ca-
loric value to be considered as accept-
able imports under the category A
program, financed by Joint appropriat-
ed funds.

Since the funds for importing food
into the Bizonal Area are strictly
limited, purchases are limited to foods
whose caloric cost compares most
favorably with flour, which provides
more calories per dollar cost than any
other basic food.

Furthermore, it was explained, many
of the food items offered — wheat,
rice, barley, corn and semolina —
are not European products but origi-
nally come from South America and
can be obtained more cheaply directly
from the Western Hemisphere coun-
tries in which they originate than
through European middlemen.

Dislodged Germans

Approximately 16,000 dislodged Ger-
mans were received into the US Zone
through established exchange points
during December, 1947. Fewer than
1,200 such Germans left the US Zone
during the same period. Approxim-
ately 13,740 released prisoners of war

were included among those persons
Teceived.

APRIL 6, 1948

An exhibition of handi
Heidelberg Civil Center,

craft by German school children was held at the
Looking at the exhibits are (left to right)

T/3 William G. Willoughby; T/4 George Bell; Mrs. Brown, who is the
German civilian house mother at the Heidelberg GYA Girls Center, and

Lt. Bertha Hunter, Heidelberg GYA officer,

(Signal Corps)

Private Agencies House Germans

Private German social agencies are
playing an increasingly important role
in welfare work in all of the US-
occupied area. Their institutional ser-
vices include sponsorship and main-
tenance of homes for the aged, the
mentally and physically handicapped,
infants and children of all ages, as
well as educational institutions for
apprentices and for correction and
detention purposes.

The extent of their work is brought
into particularly sharp focus when
observed in relation to that of the
public organizations. Of the 2,964
welfare institutions in the US area,
1,899 are privately sponsored and
maintained, and 1,065, approximately
35 percent, are financed out of public
funds. The private homes care for
90,103 individuals as contrasted with
78,644 cared for in the public insti-
tutions.

In addition to their institutional
services, the voluntary social agencies
participate effectively in all community
activities which have as their object-
ive the welfare of people in need.

In the US Sector of Berlin, for in-
stance, they recently aided in the

19

organization of 128 warming centers,
in the establishment of 32 first aid
stations, two public kitchens, an
emergency kitchen, a transient camp,
two day-care centers for children, one
for the aged, a number of sewing
centers, an ambulance motor pool,
and three new buildings for children’s
activities.

In Wuerttemberg-Baden, the Pro-
testant agency (Evangelisches Hilfs-
werk) served 2,070 meals to children
in October, 1947, The Catholic welfare
agency (Caritas Verband) served 1,537
meals during the same period.

At Regensburg, Bavaria, the Pro-
testant agency established the Martin
Luther House for 80 young men, half
of whom are students and half of
whom are engaged in apprenticeships.

The Catholic agency has established
three youth welfare districts in
Munich, Freising, Augsburg, and Re-
gensburg, and plans have been com-
pleted for similar expansion in each
Bavarian district.

The private welfare associations of
Bavaria elected in October five re-
presentatives to the Bavarian Senate,
Military Governor's Report No. 30.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
(Continued from Page 2)
Occupational Activities

French Resistance during World
War II.

The future employment of denazi-
fication tribunal personnel is protect-
ed in a US Zone Council of States
draft law approved by OMGUS. Ap-
plying to denazification employees
who have worked at least one year,
the measure provides certain. priori-
ties in their reemployment both by

government and private industry.

US Zone

At the US Zone Council of States
meeting in Stuttgart on March 3 the

Deputy Military Governor informed —

the Council of Military Government's

achievements for the Bizonal Area in.

the procurement of additional food.
The deliveries of imported bread-
grains were reported to be 15 per-
cent above schedule. This means that
the 3,600,000 metric tons of bread-
grains promised for 1947-48 can be
met or may even be exceeded. He
reported that fat and oil imports were
26,300 tons in the first two months of
1948.

A German suggestion relative to
drawing up a statute of occupation
clearly defining the rights and respon-
sibilities of the occupying powers and
of the German administration was
accepted by Military Government as
desirable but could not be realized
until establishment of a central Ger-
man Government with a constitution.

Illegal border activity and crossings
increased approximately 10 percent-in
Bavaria. A control point was establ-
ished at the Kassel (Hesse) railway
station where border police replaced
municipal police who had been check-
ing travel documents. The heavy
influx of persons illegally entering
the US Zone from the Soviet Zone
via the British Zone made this step
necessary.

On March 4 a total of 217 railway
cars had been returned to the US
Zone after repair by the Tatra works
in Czechoslovakia. Since September,
1947, 500 freight cars have been sent
there for repair in order to ease the
burden on Reichsbahn repair shops.

In accordance with a request by US
military authorities, the Freising-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Homeless Youths Are Major Problem

The large’ number of homeless
boys. and girls in the US Zone
continues to constitute a major
problem ‘to local’ child welfare
officials,

In a recent study. made by the
Ministry of Labor and Welfare in
Hesse it was found that in Land
Hesse alone approximately 10,000
juveniles are vagrant. The bunkers
at the Frankfurt railroad station
provide shelter for about 200 children,
and the Rendeler bunker in Frank-
furt averages about 100 boys per
night.. Approximately 80 percent
come from the Soviet Zone,

Child welfare agencies have organ-
ized 28 institutions with 2,665 beds
for homeless boys, and six institutions
with 275 beds for girls, and by s0
doing have made a_ substantial
beginning in alleviating the shortage
of institutional facilities for juveniles.

In Bavaria a significant step was
taken by the authorities in attacking
the problem of homeless youths, when
a check and collection of vagrant
youth was made _ simultaneously
throughout the state at all railroad
stations, blackmarket and other
centers known to be meeting places
for homeless and uprooted youths.
As a result, 1,586 juveniles were

apprehended, 1,277 of whom were
turned over to the local ‘child wel-
fare offices for investigation and
social planning.

Approximately one-half of these
youths were released to the custody
of their parents or guardians, under
the supervision of the competent
child welfare office. Of those remain-
ing, 309 were placed in two diagnostic
centers for further study and were
later transferred to Georgensmuend
near Schwabach, a treatment home
for young vagabonds.

Others who were in need of special
care were placed at Kastell Windsor,
Landkreis Regensburg, or Maerz.
feld near Nuremberg, two newly
established homes for boys, leaving
a potential capacity of 40 and 300,
respectively. A few boys under
18 years of age were accepted for
training at Simonshof, Landkreis
Mellrichstadt, a newly established
wotk-center, now having a capacity
for 12 and a potential capacity for
40 youths.

The success of this experiment
encouraged the Bavarian authorities
in the belief that frequent repetitions
of such action would go far in
diminishing the problem of homeless
youths. — Military Governor's Report
No. 30.

Erding highway in Bavaria has been
added to the military road network
as a first-priority, second-class road.
This route is one of several important
highways leading to the Erding Air
Depot which has been. designated as
the permanent location for US Air
Forces supply in the theater.

Industrial production rose sharply
in February to 54% of the 1936 level,
a new high for the occupation period.
Despite the shorter month (24 working
days), the rise represents an increase
of approximately. four points over
January and is attributable chiefly
to the continuing improvement in
availability of coal and steel to in-
dustry, plus the unusually mild
weather.

During the second half of February
the first Danish restitution mission
reported for duty at Karlsruhe. Among

20

the art items released to Belgium were
such outstanding pieces as “Moses and
His Wife" and “Martyrdom of Saint
Laurentius,” both by Jacob Jordaens,
and a 17th-century Gobelin tapestry.

During the latter half of February,
reparations shipments totaling 4,996
tons were made to 11 recipient nations
from 42 plants in the US Zone. Of the
total, Yugoslavia received 2,437 -tons
and France 1,239 tons.

Regulation No. 1 issued under Mil-
itary Government Law No. 56 Prohib-
ition of Excessive. Concentration of
Economic Power) has been further
amended, effective March 1, 1948.
The new amendment requires that
members of all prohibited cartel
agreements and illegal trade. practice
arrangements shall notify the Decar-
telization Branch of the termination

APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
of participation in such prohibited
arrangements,

Maximum capacity loadings of coal
have been possible on the Rhine River
in the two weeks preceding March 12,
although water levels on that water-
way continue to decrease gradually.

Military Government granted the
International Transport Federation
permission to send a 16-man dele-
gation to the Bizonal Area to study
working conditions of transport work-
ers. This is the first time any inter-
national organization has been per-
mitted to send sucha large delegation
to the US occupied area,

The crisis in Czechoslovakia domi-
nated news broadcasts carried by the
US controlled stations in Germany;
full coverage was given to recent de-
velopments in that country and to the
world reaction which followed.

Military Government's exhibition
program, which was initiated with the
exhibit on “TVA,” has made substan-
tial progress. Four new exhibitions
are now ready for showing in the US
Information Centers of Germany; “US
Agriculture," “US Labor,” “North
American Indian Art,” and “American
Homes—1607-1947."

On February 25 an agreement for the
founding of the School of Advanced
Studies in Berlin was signed by the
Minister Presidents of the US-occu-
pied areas. Berlin has also agreed to
support the institution. The establish-
ment of the school is the result of a
Proposal by US Military Government.

Incidence rates for the more im-
portant communicable diseases, tuber-
Culosis and respiratory diseases re-
Ported as influenza, were lower in
February than in January, 1948,

All displaced persons in the US
Zone are being notified that they
must deposit their foreign exchange
assets between April 1 and 15 under

the provision of Military Government
Law No. 53.

Industrial production in the three
Southern states of the US Zone—
Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden und Ba-
Varia—rose sharply during February
to a new high level for the occu-
Pation. Despite the fact that February
had only 24 working days, the gener-
al production index rose to 54 per-
Cent of the 1936 rate as compared

APRIL 6, 1948

One of a shipment of 24 Opel Olympia passenger automobiles,
manufactured at the Opel plant in Ruesselsheim, is loaded aboard a

Rhine barge for export to Antwerp, Belgium.

with 50 percent during January and
with the previous high level of 52
reached in July, 1947.

Berlin Sector

Two feeding programs, effecting
220,000 Berlin school children and
16,000 university students, will be
started by CRALOG about April 15.

Under provisions of a recent Allied
Kommandatura agreement, telephone
service to Scandinavian countries has
been opened to Berlin residents.
Initially the service for Germans will
be limited in the US Sector to business
calls from Berlin firms with com-
mercial interests in Denmark, Norway
and Sweden.

The first issue of “Das Freie Wort"
("The Free Word"), the official
weekly newspaper of the Working
Committee of the Independent Trade
Union Opposition of Berlin, appeared
on March 5 under US Military
Government authorization, with 45,000
copies on sale at newsstands,

Wuerttemberg-Baden

Final steps were taken to complete
the establishment of the North-Wuert-
temberg-Baden Volkshochschule Asso-
ciation. The general purpose of the
association is to promote adult
education,

21

(Archives)

Bavaria

Agreement has been reached be-
tween the Bavarian Minister of Labor
and the president of the Land Labor
Office for Bavaria for the allocation
of 100 workers to Krauss-Maffei, one
of the largest railway repair shops in
the US Zone.

The National Catholic Welfare
Conference contributed to the Office
of Military Government for Bavaria
six sets of the new basic courses
prepared at Catholic University for
parochial schools in the United
States.

The “heartfelt thanks" of President
Truman were conveyed to the mayor
and citizens of Kulmbach for a book
of photographs encased in a wood-
carved cover, which the villagers had
sent to the White House in December
as a token of appreciation for Ameri-
can food.

British Zone

Twenty-nine million special stamps
in two denominations, and 500,000
blocks of four stamps each for collect-
ors, will be issued in commemoration
of the 1948 Hanover Trade Fair, which
will open on May 22. Issuance of the
special stamps has received quadri-
partite approval. The stamps will be
in 50 an 24 pfennig denominations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
DP’s Are Cautioned
On Crime Prevalence

In a communication to all displaced
persons newspapers in the US Zone,
Civil Affairs Division, EUCOM, cau-
tioned that a small minority of the
DP population is endangering the
position of the entire group through
indulgence in criminal activity.

The communication also pointed out
that there have been many instances
in which, through misplaced, intra-
group loyalty, DP’s involved in crimes
have been assisted by other DP’s in
their efforts to escape apprehension—
often without the knowledge that
DP’s they are helping are being sought
for crimes.

The situation, it was said, has
engendered unfavorable publicity in
the United States and other countries
out of proportion to the incidence of
crime among DP’s, and tends to devel-
op or increase anti-DP sentiment in
other countries.

Hearings Speeded

Only 614,265 registrants under the
Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism remained to
be processed as of Jan. 1, out of the
original 12,222,985 registrants. Of these
remaining 233,926 or 38 percent will
be affected by the recently-approved
amendments to the law, which will
expedite hearing of their cases. It is
estimated that hearing of cases speed-
ed by the amendment will be com-
pleted by the end of March 1948,
leaving only 380,339 subject to the
normal trial processes of the law.

Hospital Reserve Lacking

With the occupancy as of Dec. 1,
1947, at 88 percent of the total civ-
ilian bed capacity of 186,265 in the
US Zone, there was little reserve
available in case of an epidemic or
catastrophe. The general shortages of
fuel, hospital equipment, medicines
and bandage materials, in addition to
the crowded condition of the hospi-
tals, would make the satisfactory care
of an increased patient load im-
possible.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Reviews List German Research

A detailed account of scientific
research accomplished in Germany,
during the war, will be made available
to scientists of all nations through
the publication of a series of reviews
prepared by the respective FIAT’s
(Field Information Agency, Technical)
of the Military Governments of the
British, French, and US Zones of
Germany.

The reviews will cover the fields
of biology, chemistry, mathematics,
medicine, physics, and the sciences
of the earth. Numerous German
scientists furnished and arranged the
contents of the volumes, and the per-
sonnel of the Scientific Branches of
the FIAT’s supervised the work.

The review will consist of 84 vol-
umes, six of which are already off the
press. The list of titles follows:

PHYSICS: ‘Nuclear Physics, Cosmic Rays”
(Vol I and II) by W. Bothe and S. Flugge;
“Physics os the Electron Shells of Atoms and
Molecules’? by K. Kopfermann; ‘Physics of
Solids’ (Vol I and II) by G. Joos; “Physics
of Liquids an Gases" by E. Kappler; ‘Hydro.
and Aerodynamics” by A, Betz; ‘Electronics,
incl, Fundamental Emission Phenomena’ (Vol
I and Il) by G. Goubau and J. Zenneck;
“Geophysics and Geodesy” (Vol I and II) by
J. Bartels; ‘‘Meteorology and Physics of the
Atmosphere” by R. Mugge; “Astronomy, Astro-
physics and Cosmogony” by P. ten Bruggen-
cate; “Biophysics (Vol I and II) by B. Ra-
jewsky and M. Schon.

22

American publications are read with keen interest by Germans at the
“Amerika-Haus,” US Information Center in Berlin-Schoeneberg

CHEMISTRY; “Inorganic Chemistry"’ (Vol ©
to VI) by W. Klemm; ‘‘Analytical Chemistry?
by W. Klemm; ‘Physical Chemistry” by K,
Clusius; ‘Theoretical Organic Chemistry" ©
(Vol I and II) by W. Huckel; ‘‘Preparative
Organic Chemistry" (Vol I to III) by K. Ziegs —
ler; “‘Biochemistry"’ (Vol I to IV) by R. Kuhn)
“Pharmacology and Toxicology" (Vol I to III)
by F. Eichholtz; ‘‘Chemotherapeutics" by F,
Schonhofer; ‘General Metallurgy’ by M. Hans
sen; “Nonferrous Metallurgy’ (Vol I and I) _
by M. Hansen. 4

MATHEMATICS: ‘Pure Mathematics’ (Vol
I and II) by W. Suss; “Applied Mathematics'*
(Vol I to V) by A, Walther,

MEDICINE: “Internal Medicine’’ (Vol I and
Il) by R. Schon; “Pediatrics by H. Kleine
schmidt; ‘‘Neurology'’ (Vol I to III) by G
Schaltenbrand; ‘'Psychiatry'’ by E. Kretschmer, —
“Tropical Medicine and Parasitology"’ by E.G, _
Nauck; “Hygiene, incl. Preventive and In.
dustrial Medicine, Epidemiology’’ (Vol I to III}
by E. Rodenwaldt; ‘Surgery, General and
Special’ by K. H. Bauer; ‘Obstetrics and
Gynaecology" (Vol I and II) by H, Martius;
“Radiology, Diagnostic and Therapeutic’ by
H. Holthusen; ‘Physiological and Pathological _
Chemistry, incl. Nutrition'’’ by E. Lehnartz;
“Pathology (Vol I to IV) by F. Buchner;
“Bacteriology and Immunology"’ by H. Schmidt) _
“Virus Diseases of Man"’ by R. Bieling and —
H. Heinlein; ‘Physiology’ (Vol I to III) by
H. F. Rein; “Anatomy, Histology, and Em, |
bryology” by P. Stohr,

BIOLOGY: “'Biology’’ (Vol I to IV) by Ey
Bunning and A. Kuhn.
SCIENCES OF THE EARTH: ‘'Geography“
(Vol I to IV) by W. Tuckermann and H. Wisss
mann; ‘Geology’ by L. Ruger; “Mineralogy”
by H. Steinmet; ‘'Petrography” (Vol I and —
Il) by K. H. Scheumann

(Signal Corps photo

APRIL 6,

--- Page 26 ---
a

This is the second and last part of
an article published originally in the
Troop I&E Bulletin, a weekly publi-
cation for Army occupation troops.
The first part appeared in Issue No. 131
of the Information Bulletin.

Munich: Athens on the Isar

Before the twin disasters of nazism
and war, Munich had more charm and
color than any other part of Germany.
Today the great city lies largely in
tuins; and yet, strangely enough,
much of the carefree atmosphere of
the mellow old Bavarian city still
prevails.

Not much imagination is needed
even today to understand why Mu-
nich was once a mecca for tourists
and a center of music, fine arts and
learning. The visitor who walks down
the broad and beautiful streets, who
studies what is left of huge museum
buildings, government buildings and

A view of prewar Frankfurt, with St. Paul’s Church in the center

old churches, will catch something of
the former splendor that was Munich.

First mention of Munich is found in
8th century documents as a settle-
ment of monks called “Villa Muni-
chen” or simply “Munichen”—“To the
Monks.” Situated squarely on the old
Roman road from Salzburg to Augs-
burg, the town achieved a kind of
early prominence when the Bishop of
Freising built a toll bridge over the
Isar for the busy salt traders. Henry
the Lion established it as a trading
center in the middle of the 12th
century, for the salt coming from
Hallein and Reichenhall. He also set
up a mint in the town.

The reign of the Wittelsbach family,
one of Europe's oldest and most pro-
lific houses, began in 1180 when Otto
von Wittelsbach became Duke of
Bavaria; it lasted until the day when
Bavaria, in a short-lived revolution
after World War I, proclaimed itself a
communist (Soviet) state.

During the intervening 739 years,
Munich suffered many hardships, one
of which was the great fire of S27,
which virtually destroyed it. It was
occupied in 1632 by the armies of
Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden, who
was seeking to curb the power of the
Holy Roman Empire. But Bavaria has
always been a Catholic stronghold and
was one of the few German towns to
resist the Reformation movement.
Munich was always a residence city
(Reichsstadt), the seat of a ruling

house as opposed to traditionally
“free cities” like Frankfurt and
Bremen.

With the occupying Swedes came a
fearful epidemic of the plague. Those
who survived celebrated their deliver-
ance in the market place by dancing
the Schefflertanz, a costume dance
which was performed every seven
years thereafter in memory of their
gratitude.

Bavarian art first achieved stature
and recognition in the 17th century;
it continued to flourish through two

(Stars and Stripes photo)

--- Page 27 ---
more occupations by the Austrians in
the following century.

The art and architecture of this
period were greatly influenced by Ital-
ian and French masters; and hence a
wide variety of buildings could be
seen in Munich before the war. Not
many of the old buildings are still
intact.

St. Peter's Church, the oldest in the
city, is now in ruins. On the Market-
place stands the old town hall, erected
in 1470, and the new town hall, a fine
modern Gothic structure. On another
square is the famous Frauenkirche
Church of the Virgin) whose “onion
bulb” towers dominate the city. The
badly-damaged Alte Pinakothek (Old
Art Gallery) was a palace-like Re-
naissance building which contained
many of Europe's finest paintings. The
prewar Baedeker guide-book lists no
fewer than 45 of these “sights” which
the tourist was encouraged to visit—
castles, statues, churches, gardens, and
some of the finest collections of art
in Europe.

The German Museum housed one of
the most complete scientific collec-
tions in the world. The State Library
containing more than 1,000,000 vol-
umes and many rare manuscripts, was
considered by experts to rank among
the world’s 10 most important libraries.
The fine university, most famous of
Munich’s many educational institu-
tions, has long attracted students from
all parts of the world. One of the
few uprisings attempted against Hit-
ler was led by a Munich University
professor and a handful of students
in 1943,

Early in the last century a Wittels-
bach king ascended the Bavarian
throne with the resolve to “make
Munich a city which will adorn
Germany to such a degree that no
one may claim he has seen Germany
without having seen Munich.” Lud-
wig I was his name, and he lived up
to his promise. He gathered together
great art collections. He engaged in a
building campaign which renewed
Munich and gave it fine boulevards
and buildings. He persuaded artists
and scientists from all over Germany
to assemble in his capital city. Munich
became world-famous as a city for
enjoyment, for learning and for a
school of conservative painting.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

@sERUN

Cities in the US and other zones of Germany

In 1846 an Irish-Spanish adventuress
and dancer named Lola Montez
captured Ludwig's fancy, and he pro-
ceeded to spend most of his time
thereafter in her company. The deeply
religious Bavarians were tolerant of
their king and his eccentricities, but
when Lola became the virtual ruler of
Bavaria, mobs attacked her and she
fled. Ludwig was asked to quit; he
stepped down and died 20 years later
in Nice.

Ludwig II, grandson of the first Lud-
wig, was a less effective, more ex-
pensive patron of the arts. He did
much to further the career of his
close friend, Richard Wagner, the

24

composer, saving him from bankruptcy
and possibly from suicide, He added
to Munich’s reputation as a city of
culture by aiding other artists; but his
real energies were directed at build-
ing a series of ornate and useless
castles which dot the Bavarian land-
scape. Quite mad through much of his
teign, Ludwig was found dead one
day on the shore of the Starnberg
Lake, presumably a suicide.

Munich, however, a cultural center
of Germany, bred a much more
dangerous and less genial madman
than either of the two Ludwigs. There
Hitler joined the newly-founded Nazi
Party in 1920 as Party member No.7)

APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 28 ---
and for the next 25 years Munich was
headquarters of the movement.

There in the Buergerbraeukeller the
early Nazis plotted their 1923 putsch;
and to Munich Hitler and his party
Jeaders returned each November to
re-enact one portion of that first un-
successful try for power. Hitler chose
Munich as the scene of his brutal
diplomatic triumph over the de-
mocracies in September, 1938, when
Prime Minister Chamberlain returned
triumphantly to England waving a
promise of peace and a trade agree-
ment in return for having turned
Czechoslovakia over to the Nazis.

Bavaria was predominantly Roman
Catholic and had strong separatist
tendencies, nourished by a deep dis-
trust, even hatred, of northern Ger-
mans. It had resisted incorporation
into the German Empire in 1870 and
became an independent republic in
1920. For a brief period, because of
this background, it had threatened
serious opposition to the Hitler
government in Berlin; but in 1934,
with the other German states, it
weakly and willingly surrendered.

Munich paid heavily for this sur-
render. Of the city's 828,235 popula-
tion, less than 500,000 remained in
April 1945,

Thousands who fled Munich, how-
ever, have returned to the crowded
city. Reconstruction has begun in a
small way. Some of the rubble has
been cleared. New red tiles cover the
roofs of the new wooden towers of
the damaged Frauenkirche—the first
step in the reconstruction of the city’s
cherished treasures. Some of the
museums have been reopened and the
university is again teaching the arts
and sciences to the youth of Bavaria.

Rising above the city of Munich on
the banks of the River Isar, untouched
by war, is the Golden Angel of Peace
of 1871. This statue is looked upon
by the people of Munich as a symbol
of faith and hope in the future of their
city.

Bremen: Gateway city

On Sept. 11, 1945, a small British
Ship steamed up the Weser and
docked without mishap in the port of
Bremen. US and British navies and
engineers had completed their job of
Clearing the harbor of mines and
Scuttled ships. By March, 1946, the

APRIL 6, 1948

Army had progressed far enough in
salvaging and repairing the bomb-torn
wharves, cranes and warehouses to
allow the first three cargo boats (from
Norway) to enter the harbor. Bremen
then assumed its role of Occupied
Germany's gateway to the outside
world.

The Allies designated Bremen and
Bremerhaven as ports for the US Zone
in 1945 and set up Bremen and the
surrounding area as the Bremen
Enclave.

Bremen is Germany's oldest port;
together with Bremerhaven, 38 miles
north, it was in prewar times one
of Europe's largest. The bombers that
destroyed about 65 per cent of Bre-
merhaven were careful not to damage
irreparably the port facilities which
were of little use to the Germans.
The bomb craters make a neat line
between city and docks.

Bremen fared but little better. More
than half of its picturesque residential
area was totally ruined. Winding
streets lined with gabled houses dat-
ing back to the Middle Ages have
been cleared for traffic, the shattered
dwellings gone with the rubble.

Among the varied Bremen indus-
tries which are struggling to climb
back to prewar levels is that of
fishing. Bremerhaven was the largest
fresh fish landing port in Germany
before the war depleted its facilities.
Starting in July, 1945, with two
trawlers, the industry now has almost
200 vessels operating out of the port.
They bring in from 500 to 3,500 tons
of desperately-needed fish each week.
Bremen also had, as other prewar

How Frankfurt appeared after World War II bombings

industries, large tobacco processing,
cigar making and coffee roasting
factories.

It was to commerce, however, that
Bremen owed most of its prewar fame
and prosperity. Toward the end of
the 19th century the mouth of the
Weser was straightened and deepened
to allow ocean-going vessels to reach
the Bremen docks. There cargoes
from all parts of the world were
unloaded. Today ships from England,
France, Belgium, Denmark, Poland,
Italy, Norway, Finland and the US
are bringing basic supplies to Ger-
many through the Bremen port. Most
of the food and supplies shipped to
their zones by the US and Britain
comes through Bremen.

In 1936, almost 6,000 vessels carry-
ing about 5,000,000 tons of freight
entered the Bremen port. In the first
year of Military Government opera-
tion, 469 ships stopped there to un-
load or take on a total of 2,220,517
tons of goods. This record was made
in the face of the worst winter in the
modern history of the port. Usually
free from ice nearly all year around,
the harbor was made almost im-
passable in 1946/47 by ice four feet
deep. Only ceaseless efforts by both
Germans and Americans kept the port
clear and supplies coming in.

Bremen has also made progress po-
litically as well as commercially. Land
Bremen was created as the fourth
state in the US Zone early in 1947,
after voters had given approval to
a new constitution drawn up by
elected representatives. The framers
of the constitution drew upon Bre-

(Signal Corps)

--- Page 29 ---
men's long history of republican gov-
ernment to draft this framework for
democratic institutions.

Bremen was virtually a free city for
several hundred years and was
publicly proclaimed as such when the
last ruling archbishop was deposed
by the invading Swedes in 1646. For
several centuries it was one of the
most powerful members of the or-
ganization of cities—Luebeck, Ham-
burg, Cologne, Bruges and Bremen
were the best known—which named
itself the Hanseatic League. Formed
in the 14th century as a result of
the lack of a powerful German na-
tional government able to guarantee
security for trade, the Hansa towns
sought mutual security, extortion of
trading privileges and maintenance of
trade monopoly. Their chief weapon
against foreigners or unwilling mem-
bers was economic, boycott and
(rarely) war. Thus these towns dom-
inated northern European trade well
into the 15th century.

Despite the decline of the Han-
seatic League and its dissolution in
1669, Bremen retained its independ-
ence until taken by the French in
1806 and annexed to Napoleon's em-
pire. The Congress of Vienna restored
its independence in 1815, but in 1867
it joined the new German Empire
being forged by Bismarck.

After Germany's defeat in World
War I the red flag of communism flew
from the Bremen city hall, the same
building before which had been stand-
ing for more than four centuries the
same famous statue of the Knight
Roland. Revolutionists controlled the
city from Nov. 15, 1918, until early
the following February when govern-
ment troops fought their way in and
took over. Bremen adopted a con-
stitution in 1920, in the second year
of the republic, and gave up in 1935,
in the second year of the Nazi terror,
when it was merged in Prussia.

Tens of thousands of soldiers, civil-
jans and their dependents have first
set foot on German soil at Bremer-
haven. They in turn will someday
follow the other thousands who have
already finished their part in the
Occupation and taken a last look at
Germany from the Bremerhaven pier.

Great crowds of people passing
through its port is nothing new to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Prewar Nuremberg, with marketplace in foreground

Bremen. It was the seat of the North
German Lloyd Steamship Lines and
the port city through which millions
of Europeans——notably Germans,
Austrians and Russians——poured on
their way to freedom and opportunity
in America.

Nuremberg: Treasury
of the Reich

The destruction of the very old,
tich city of Nuremberg will perhaps
be known to history as the greatest
single property loss Germany suffered
in World War II. The modern build-
ings of Berlin can be_ replaced.
Munich and Frankfurt can rebuild
themselves. But the inner walled city
of Nuremberg, one of the jewels of
man's ancient history, is gone forever,
irreplaceably lost.

The wall surrounding the old city
still stands today, but almost nothing
is left within it to give the casual
visitor an idea of its former beauty.
Streets become lanes and lanes be-
come footpaths that lead up over the
brick and rubble of once-famous
buildings.

Nuremberg’s walls and imperial
castles were built in the 11th century.
The last enclosure and the last fort-
ification of the city was completed
400 years later; and so Nuremberg
stood as one of Europe's largest walled
cities, containing no fewer than 30,000
inhabitants. The wall itself was a
formidable thing, more than three
miles long, three feet thick at its

26

(Archives)
t

narrowest, 21 feet high at its lowest,
a moat 60 feet wide at its base.
Many of the private houses of m
ern-day Nurembergers dated back to
the 16th century. Their style was
Gothic for the most part, and pre-
sented a rather plain exterior to the
street, In the interior courts the lavi:
and ornate woodcarvings and paint
walls were examples of German Re
naissance decoration at its best. The
Fembo-Haus in Burgstrasse, onl y
slightly damaged, is one of the few
surviving examples of the richly:
ornamented Nuremberg residences.
Throughout four centuries, builders
of new houses in the inner city em=
ployed the same decorations, gables,
red tile roofs and general archi-
tectural style in an effort to maintain
the medieval appearance. Thus Nurem:
berg continued to surpass any other
German town in beauty and elegance
Emperor Charles IV called it “
noblest and best-situated town" in h
empire. Because it was the home
so many rich and incomparable
sures of German art and civilization,
it was known as the “Treasury of the
Reich.” Others called it das Schatz
kaestlein, “the little jewel box.”
Nuremberg used to attract throngs
of as many as 500,000 visitors evel
summer before the war. Among th
city's early admirers were the em
perors of Germany, to whom the city
owes much of its early wealth am
expansion. They conferred on it spe
cial favors throughout the Middl

APRIL 6. 1948

--- Page 30 ---
Ages. These German monarchs often
lived in Nuremberg and held their
congresses there.

The most important of these con-
gresses was held in 1356 and gave
birth to the famous Golden Bull (proc-
jJamation) of that year. This set of
laws transformed the empire from a
monarchy into an aristocratic feder-
ation and gave to seven sovereign
electors the right to choose the Ger-
man emperors and exercise super-
vision over the empire.

They were the archbishops of
Mainz, Trier and Cologne, the Count
Palatinate of the Rhine, the Duke of
Saxony, the Margrave of Brandenburg
and the King of Bohemia. It remained
in effect for 450 years, until 1806,

In 1219 Frederick II had granted
Nuremberg the rights of a free city
of the nation. In the centuries that
followed, the struggles for control of
the city between the burgraves, who
lived in Nuremberg Castle, and the
town council, which represented the
burghers of the rising city, led to
constant, sometimes bloody quarrels.
Nuremberg survived them all and by
the 16th century had acquired enough
territory—about 500 square miles—to
make it the largest German city of
all time. It was the peak of Nurem-
berg civilization.

Nuremberg did not rely merely on
architectural beauty for her fame.
Throughout the Middle Ages the city
was a famous trading center for all
Europe. Fortunately situated at the
crossroads of two important highways
of central Europe, Nuremberg served
as an intermediary between Italy and
the East on the one hand and northern
Europe on the other.

There is an old proverb which says
“Nuremberg's toys go through every
land." Such was the fame of one of
the products of Nuremberg in me-
dieval days.

Having no natural resources or
assets on which to depend for trade
and prosperity, the people of Nurem-
berg developed their own arts and
crafts. Nuremberg merchants quickly
became famous for their rare and fine
Metal work. Working as armorers,
Compass-makers, brass-founders, cop-
Persmiths and goldsmiths, many of
these craftsmen developed their tal-
ents to the point of fine art.

APRIL 6, 1948

From. the ranks of such men came
many inventions of importance. Brass
was first made at Nuremberg. In 1510
Peter Henlein invented the pocket
watch (it was shaped like an egg).
Hans Lobsinger built the first air gun
about 50 years later. Other inventions
include the clarinet, gun locks and
terrestrial globes. The first globe rep-
resenting the earth was made in
1490 and of course, did not show
America.

Nuremberg wares are still known
throughout the world. In the manu-
facture of toys and pencils, prewar
Nuremberg dominated the world
market.

Nuremberg produced at least two
artists of world renown and eternal
fame. One was the great painter and
copper engraver, Albrecht Duerer
1471—1528). The other was the shoe-
maker-poet, Hans Sachs (1494—1576),
one of the master singers who joined
with other poets, singers and com-
posers in Nuremberg’s famous singing
and song composing’ contests. It was
about these singers that Richard Wag-
ner wrote his opera the Meistersinger,
and it was Hans Sachs he chose as
his leading character.

Nuremberg began to slip as a
commercial center in the 17th century
as a result of the discovery of new
trade routes to India and America.
The regular trade channels across
Europe and through Nuremberg were
upset, and many large Nuremberg
commercial houses collapsed.

This picture shows Bremen's

BS
EP
F

A second blow to the prosperity of
the city was the Thirty-Year War.
Although Nuremberg was neither
captured nor destroyed, an estimated
10,000 of its inhabitants died of disease
and want.

The incorporation of the city into
the Kingdom of Bavaria at the begin-
ning of the 19th century gave Nurem-
berg a new lease on life. Its trade and
commerce recovered. Industry was
developed as a new road to prosperity.
Germany's first railroad was laid down
to connect Nuremberg with nearby
Fuerth, and Nuremberg became one of
the leading rail and industrial cities
of Germany.

A thriving modern community grew
up around the carefully preserved
inner city. As a modern industrial
city, it had one quality in common
with a!l other German cities, It had no
slums,

After 1933 Nuremberg became the
focal point for Nazi Party activities.
As Munich was the birthplace and
headquarters of Nazism, Nuremberg
became its unholy shrine. Important
party celebrations and congresses
were held there, including the week-
long September “Party Day” rally.
This yearly meeting was the high
point of the drum-beating, orating and
mystical hokus-pokus by which Hitler
held the German people spellbound.
The entire city was decked in garish
tributes of flags and bunting; search-
lights swept the sky at night;
and several hundred thousands from

thriving port before the war. (Archives)

--- Page 31 ---
all over Germany crowded into the
Party Day Stadium (now the "Victory
Stadium") to hear Hitler make in-
flammatory speeches,

Although the city had never been
notably anti-Semitic, Nuremberg was
chosen as the name-city for the in-
famous Nuremberg Laws of 1935, by
which German Jews were deprived of
the rights of citizenship and human
beings.

The city first became an air target
in 1943; by January, 1945, it had been
reduced to its present state. By an
ironic coincidence, Nuremberg fell to
US troops on April 20, 1945. It was
Hitler's birthday.

Today this once magnificent city,
about which Pope Pius II once said
“A simple Nuremberg burgher is better
lodged than the King of Scotland,” is
barely able to offer shelter to the
320,000 persons who live in “91 per
cent dead” Nuremberg.

Frankfurt-am-Main:
Capital City

On a Monday night in March of
1944 the air raid sirens of Frankfurt
shrieked their warning. Hundreds of
RAF planes passed back and forth
over the city, dropping high explosive
and fire bombs in a “carpet” raid.

Another British night raid followed
on Wednesday and a US daytime raid
on Friday. Old Frankfurt died in one
spring week of modern war.

When 5th Division troops took the
city at the end of March one year
later, Germany's richest and sixth
largest city lay in ruins as desolate as
those of Berlin and Nuremberg, Of the
community's 177,500 buildings, 80,000
were destroyed and 53,000 others
damaged. All bridges were down and
citizens of Frankfurt waited four hours
to cross the Main on one ferry boat.
There was no gas or water.

And yet, if a poll were taken today
on which of the cities in the US Zone
is “most likely to succeed,” Frankfurt
would certainly win hands down. It is
already shaping up as the future eco-
nomic and political leader of western
Germany.

Frankfurt has long been one of the
wealthiest cities of Germany. At one
period in the last century—during the
financial reign of the centuries-old,
internationally famous banking houses

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of Rothschild, Schiff and Warburg—
the city was reputed to have had
599 millionaires. With the rapid growth
of its stock exchange, the city became
the ‘Wall Street” of Germany. Frank-
furt's exchange granted a half dozen
or more loans to the US Government
in Civil War days when President
Lincoln's requests had been turned
down both in Paris and in London.
Before World War I the financial
capital of Germany had moved east-
ward to Berlin, but even today the
banking influence remains in Frankfurt.

Stuttgart city hall, in peacetime
(Archives)

Under the Frankfurt Reichsbank are
stored millions of dollars worth of
German money, a collection of un-
claimed art treasures, and all the gold
bullion that has been found in western
Germany since the end of the war.
Army Finance officers in the building
sometimes refer to it as “Germany's
Fort Knox."

Frankfurt’s importance as a center
of commerce began in the 16th century
with the establishment of annual fairs
held at Easter time and in the fall.
Each of these lasted several weeks
and attracted merchants from every
corner of Europe.

Good, level roads made the city
easily approachable from the other
trading centers of Europe. The navi-
gable Main River, emptying into the
Rhine a few miles east, made Frank-
furt an important commercial inland
port. The web of railroads that spread

28

out in the 19th century converted the
city into an easily accessible rail ter-
minus. Its station, superficially dam-
aged by bombs, today is the scene
of continuous activity. Through it pass
trains to the capitals of Europe. It is
crowded with the arrivals and de
partures of American Occupation per-
sonnel, of officials of every nationality,
and of roving Germans. a

The 20th century brought a new
approach to the city, by way of air,
The Rhine-Main airport, with its 6,000-
foot runway, originally built as a
harbor for Zeppelin airships, is one oe }
Europe's best.

Traditionally a city of handicrafts
and the home of thousands of small
firms turning out handmade products,
Frankfurt changed with the spread of —
the modern industrial revolution, Its
chemical industry was the second
largest in Germany. The Main River
above and below Frankfurt is dotted
with automobile, refrigeration, brewing,
type foundry and electrical plants
which were among Germany's best
and biggest. Its suburb, Offenbadl
was the center of the country’s leathe
goods manufacture; Hanau of silver
work and diamond cutting; Hoechst of
chemicals, q

The history of Frankfurt is rich in
legend and tradition, The Emperor
Charlemagne was supposed to have
founded the city in the 8th century
in gratitude for having been delivered
from a pursuing Saxon army,
when a white stag waded across
Main River and thus showed him @
fordable passage. Actually he built a
palace in the place and called it
Franconoford, His grandson, Louis the
German, made Frankfurt. (‘Franks
Ford") the capital of the east
Frankish kingdom. .

The Golden Bull of 1356, enacted ii
Nuremberg, made Frankfurt the seat
of the coronation of the German kings
and later (after 1562) of the empero:
The now wrecked Roemer, a row ¢
several magnificent patrician house
converted into a town hall, was on
of the showplaces of Europe,
the seven electors of the Empire méi
to choose an emperor, and here the
coronation festivities were held aft
the actual coronation had taken pla¢
in the nearby cathedral. The cal h
dral, built in 852, was badly damage

--- Page 32 ---
in the war but its 320-foot tower still
stands to look over the ruins of one
of the finest “old cities” of Europe.

Frankfurt remained a free city
throughout most of the life of the
Holy Roman Empire, It was the scene
of one of the first uprisings of the
guilds against the patrician families.
These riots were also directed against
the Jews, who at that time were not
allowed to live within the walls of
the city. The uprising was finally
crushed and the leader, one Vincent
Fettmilch, beheaded.

Frankfurt was a strong center of
the Reformation movement, and was
headquarters of a number of liberal
movements which were to follow.
And yet, because of the govern-
mental structure of the German
states, it remained a city of the
Middle Ages well past the 18th cen-
tury. The end of the Middle Ages
might have come to Frankfurt with
the coronation of the last Holy Roman
Emperor in 1792, for a few weeks
later French revolutionary troops
stormed and occupied the city.

But the ideas of the French Revolution
made small impression, and the medi-
eval spirit lived long after other
western European cities had progress-
ed into a new industrial era. The long-
useless city walls, for instance, were
not torn down until 1810—1820, when
they were replaced by the fine prom-
enades which now surround the city
of the Main River.

Frankfurt became a free city again
with the peace of 1815 and was made
the seat of the German Confederation.
In 1848 it was unmistakably Germany's
first city when it became the capital
of the revolutionary movement and
the site for the First National Assem-
bly. Germany, however, was not yet
Teady for the liberal constitution that
the Assembly drew up. Frederick Wil-
helm IV of Prussia, partly because he
did not wish to have a crown given
him by commoners, refused to head
the proposed empire; and the revolu-
tion collapsed with the occupation of
Frankfurt by Prussian troops. The
heart of Germany moved to Berlin
with that event; the transfer was
Official when Frankfurt was incorpo-
Tated into the Prussian state in 1866.

Frankfurt's first citizen of all the
ages was Johann Wolfgang von
Goethe, who did not think very highly

APRIL 6, 1948

of his fellow-townspeople, criticizing
them more than once for their pro-
vinciality. Goethe was born near the
Roemer in 1749, witnessed the crown-
ing of the last emperor, and wrote
The Sorrows of Werther and began
Faust in his Frankfurt birthplace. His
home, destroyed in World War II, is
being carefully rebuilt as far as pos-
sible with the original materials.
Frankfurt hopes to have it completed
in time for the 200th anniversary of
the poet's birth.

Frankfurt’s opera house, once one
of the finest in Europe, now stands
amid weeds and a pile of rubble, an
“off limits’ sign on its door. The
soldier or German who wants to see
Frankfurt opera today must do so in
the less imposing setting of the Stock
Exchange, the only available audi-
torium in town.

Before World War I Frankfurt was
considered a somewhat “stuffy” rich

29

ie Seay,"

New town hall (foreground) and Women's Church, Munich, in better times,

(Archives)
city, but one surpassed in elegance
on the continent only by Paris and
Vienna. Germany's best years were
between 1870 and 1914, when its
scientists, musicians and scholars led
the world, when its leaders were
respected everywhere, when happy
foreign tourists thronged its spas and
resorts, and when life was perhaps
the most comfortable on the continent
and Frankfurt was the epitome, the
example of the best Germany had to
offer.

Natives of Frankfurt speak longingly
of that “wonderful life” and perhaps
curse the two strange, fanatic leaders
who brought about its end. Most long-
ingly they speak now of the fine im-
ported food for which their home was
famous.

One of Frankfurt's greatest disasters
and the one from which she is likely
to suffer longest is one she asked for
and welcomed—the loss of virtually

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
all her Jewish population. Frankfurt
had always had a comparatively high
proportion of Jews, from the time they
first settled there in 1240. Their con-
tribution in the arts and sciences, in
commerce and banking, was enormous,
beginning with the banking house of
Rothschild, founded in the 14th cen-
tury by Meyer Amschel Rothschild,
and including many of the technicians
who made the Farben industry and of
the great names in chemistry.

Before Nazism came to power,
30,000 of Frankfurt’s 500,000 population
were Jewish. They had intermarried
with Gentiles and been assimilated
into the population. They held great
weight in the social and cultural life
of the city. They carried the best
names in Frankfurt and many of them
had almost forgotten they were Jews.

Today less than 700 Jews live in
the city. The Nazis had destroyed
the synagogues and even their ceme-
teries, along with the impressive
Rothschild tombs.

The, huge nine-story I. G. Farben
building was US headquarters first for
SHAEF, next for USFET, then for
EUCOM. Now it is the headquarters
for the Bipartite Control Office (BICO)
and has been officially renamed the
Headquarters Building.

This selection as US headquarters
has made the city increasingly im-
portant as a communications base for
Germany. The Rhine-Main airport has
gradually gained ascendency over
Berlin's Tempelhof and is rapidly be-
coming one of Europe's major air-
ports. .

Last year, when BICO and the Bi-
zonal Economic Council made their
headquarters in Frankfurt, an addi-
tional burden was placed on the limit-
ed facilities of the city, already
strained by 60,000 German refugees
and expellees from the East. Housing
was the most critical problem. Because
of the labor shortage, workers had to
be brought in from other parts of the
zones, and this, in turn, reduced the
number of available billets further.

Frankfurt, which had been one of
the slowest cities in the US Zone to
clean up its debris and to begin re-
building, set to work. Repair of
slightly-damaged dwellings and erec-
tion of a number of prefabricated
houses was a part of the answer. The

INFORMATION BULLETIN

housing density in Frankfurt has im-
proved from 2.7 persons per room a
year ago to its present 1.6 persons
per room.

Frankfurt civic leaders are en-
thusiastic about the possibility of their
city regaining the position it yielded
to Berlin in 1866. Extensive plans
have been drawn up for the recon-
struction and improvement of the air-
port, key industries and public build-
ings. The city’s old churches are now
being rebuilt, along with the Friedrich
Ebert workers settlement. This May,
when Frankfurt celebrates the 100th
anniversary of its 1848 National As-
sembly, Frankfurt will have taken its
first and hardest step toward recovery.

Many flags have flown over Frank-
furt, for the broad and easy approa-
ches to the city have been as con-
venient for warriors as for traders. It
was many times occupied during the
Thirty Years’ War, the Seven Years’
War and the French Revolution, Napo-
leon I made it a grand duchy within
his own empire. The French and
Belgians marched in again in 1923.

Today the Stars and Stripes and the
Union Jack wave side by side from
Bipartite Headquarters, in an occu-
pation whose chief aims are to make
Germany self-supporting to keep her
peaceful, and to bring truly democratic
government to her people.

(Continued from Page 6)
Restored and Re-read
to what depths
had fallen.”

The editors summed up the aims of
their book when they wrote in the
preface:

German literature

“It is a worthy task now to teach
young Germans it is high time they
became aware of the creative works
of great Germans whose importance
should not be withheld from them.

“4. The names of these important
men and women remain unknown to
the younger generation in Germany.
The writings of these banned authors
are the ones which should serve as
the correct liaison between the
spiritual traditions of Germany and
the presently ‘confused’ German
youth.”

30

Constabulary Checks
On Liquor Traffic

US Constabulary units operating
check points and road blocks at the
boundaries of the US Zone have been
instructed to confiscate alcoholic be.
verages imported into the US Zone
by US occupationel personnel. All
confiscated supplies will be marked
with the owner's name, and retained
for evidence. The persons from whom
the supplies are confiscated will be
subject to court-martial procedure.

Approximately 8,000 US Occupation
Forces-held properties have been re-
turned to the German economy since
reductions and consolidations in troop
housing and recreational sites’ were
ordered last May.

Eucom Headquarters announced
that an estimated 1,000 civilian em-
ployees must be recruited from the
US before June, 1949, to replace
Allied and neutral civilians employed
by appropriated and non-appropriated
fund agencies in the US Zones, and
whose employment agreements ex-
pire. This figure is in addition to re-
placements by indigenous personnel,
and normal Command requirements
for US civilians.

Germans employed by Military Go-
vernment and the US Army, or by
agencies and individuals working
with the Army, in the European Com-
mand, as of January 1 1948, totaled
193,869. On July 1, 1946 the total was
244,419 Germans, with a gradual re-
duction taking place since that time.

Mailed Penicillin Banned

Shipments of penicillin to the Ame-
rican Occupied Area of Germany have
been declared a direct violation of US
postal laws by EUCOM headquarters,

Advertisements which have recently
appeared in the press circulating in
this zone, offering the drug for sale by
mail order, have resulted in a warning
by the Theater Chief Surgeon that self
treatment of venereal disease by
penicillin is unauthorized, and often
dangerous to the individual because
of inadequate and improper use.

The use of penicillin as a black-
market item, with consequent misuse
of the drug and exhorbitant prices, is
also being combatted by prohibition
of shipment through the mails.

APRIL 6, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Report of Personnel Possessing Lin-
guistic Ability, 201.3. (BCAGP),
OMGUS, 17 February 1948. Concerns
languages of the Middle East, Levant
and the Balkans.

General Orders No. 1, Hq EUCOM,
20 February 1948. Pertains to the
opening of Hq EUCOM (rear) at Hei-
delberg and the assuming of command
by Major General Carter B. McGruder.

General Orders No. 20, Organization
of the 7888 Hq Special Troops,
EUCOM (Rear), Hq EUCOM, 21 Feb-
ruary 1948.

Circular No. 17, Hq EUCOM, 25 Feb-
tuary 1948, Section I-Designation of
Major Commands; Section II-Tele-
phone Numbers on Correspondence;
Section III-Rabies; Section IV-Charges
for Bachelor Billets and Section V-
Photography.

Ordinance No. 15 “Ordinance Con-
cerning the Dissolution of the Reich
Food Estate (Reichsnahrstand) in the
Combined Economic Area,” BICO/Me-
mo (48) 18, BICO, 26 February 1948.

Ordinance No. 17 “Ordinance Con-
cerning the Revision of Agricultural
Assessments and Delivery of Arrange-
ments,“ BICO/Memo/48/19,  BICO,
26 February 1948.

Conduct of Searches of German
Authorities for United Nations Ci-
tizens, AG 014.12 (PW), OMGUS,
26 February 1948. Requests that Ger-
man authorities refrain from destroy-
ing documents or records containing
information on United Nations cit-
izens or non-Germans until reviewed
by the US Zonal Tracing Bureau.

Circular No. 18, Hq EUCOM, 27 Feb-
Tuary 1948. Section I-Detail of Offi-
cers in General Staff Corps; Section
Il-Monthly Report of Chaplains; Sec-
tion III-Issue of Chemical Corps 3-Gal
Decontaminating Apparatus; Section
1V-Responsibility for Electric Organs
and Section V-Recissions.

Weekly Directive No. 8, Hq EUCOM,
27 February i948. Contains the fol-
lowing sections: Sec. I-Service Charges
for Army Transport Shipment of
Privately Owned Automobiles be-
longing to other than Military Per-
Sonnel, AG 524.2 RYT. Sec, II-1948
March of Dimes, AG 005 SGS. Sec. III-

APRIL 6, 1948

Special Services Furnishings for Clubs
and Dayrooms, AG 400 SSP. Sec. IV-
Military and Civilian Personnel on
Duty or Leave Status in France, AG
210.711 GCA. Gives general instruc-
tions. Sec. V-Trip Ticket, AG 451 HDC.
Sec. VI-Weekly Check of Particular
Entries in Certain Personnel Records,
AG 333 AGX. Sec. VII-Feeding of Pri-
vately. Hired German Entertainers,
AG 430.2 GSP. Cites methods for such
feedings. Sec. VIII-Feeding of Em-
ployees of Indigenous EUCOM Ex-
change System Concessionaires, AG
430.2 GSP. Gives substitutions for
paragraph 6, section VIII, Weekly Di-
rective No. 10, EUCOM, 17 October
1947, Sec. IX-Personnel in Detach-
ments of Patients, AG 320.2 AGU.
Quotes from Message No. SX-4097,
EUCOM, 28 November 1947 the por-
tion that remains in effect. Sec. X-
Hotel Accommodations in Athens,
Greece, AG 624 POL. Gives instruc-
tions for the information and guidance
of all concerned. Sec. XI-Requests for
Aerial Reconnaissance and Print Re-
production, AG 060 GBI. Sec. XII-
Maintenance of Vehicular Blackout
Equipment, AG 451 GSP. Sec. XIII-
American Red Cross Fund Campaign,
AG 080 GPA. Sec. XIV-Observance of
Army Day, AG 006 GPA. States that
Tuesday, 6 April 1948 will be observ-
ed as a holiday. Sec. XV-Purchase of
Weapons, AG 474 AGO. Sec. XVI-
Tours to Luxenbourg, AG 200.4 SSP.
Sec. XVII-Personnel Rosters, AG
330.3 AGO, Cites information for guid-
ance of all concerned. Sec. XVIII-
Table of Clothing and Equipment
Allowance, AG 400.34 GGM. Gives
substitutions for Circular 13, EUCOM,
1948. Sec, XIX-Verification of Depend-
ents' Destination, AG 230 GPA. Lists
the major commands providing the
Port of Bremerhaven with one enlisted
man to act as liaison officer. Sec. XX-
Designation of Major Commands, AG

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters.

31

322 GPA. Circular No. 19, Hq EUCOM,
28 February 1948. Section I-Assistance
by US Army to Foreign Governments
and their Representatives in US Area
of Control in Germany and Austria;
Section II-Requests for Air Transpor-
tation and Section III-Recission.

Circular No. 20, Hq EUCOM,
1 March 1948. Control of Firearms,
Section I-General; Section II-Privately
Owned and Issued Firemans and Sec-
tion III-Use of Firearms by Military
and Law Enforcement Agencies.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests INT 27-2 and LX-29-2, AG 014.1
(SG), OMGUS, 1 March 1948. 27-2
Concerns Arrest and Extradition of
Alleged War Criminals and 29-2 con-
cerns Division of Subcommittee Labor
Law and Wages into a “Subcommittee
Labor Law" and a “Subcommittee
Wage Policy.”

Clothing and Equipment Allowance,
400 (BCSDS), OMGUS, 1 March 1948,
Pertains to Circular No. 13, Hq
EUCOM, 18 February 1948,

General License No. 8, as amended,
AG 014.1 (FA), OMGUS, 1 March 1948,
Concerns “Blocking and Control of
Property.”

Establishment of Committee on
State-Army Reorganization, Office of
the Commander - in~- Chief, AG 322.01
(Mil Gov & State Dept) (SPA-B), Hq
EUCOM, Berlin, 2 March 1948, Estab-
lishes the above committee consist-
ing of the following members:
J. Anthony Panuch, chaiman; Brig.
General W. B. Palmer, and James
L. Sundquist, members.

Extended Active Duty, AG 210.3
GPA-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 March 1948,
Concerns all qualified officers who
wish to sign a new category. They
should submit their applications by
letter in quadruplicate before 1 April
1948, through channels to CG,
OMGUS, APO 742, Attn: AG MPO,

Regulation No. 1 Under Military
Government Law No. 10, “Adoptions
by Nationals of the United Nations,”
AG 010 (CA), OMGUS, 3 March 1948.

Relief of Military Personnel from
Military Government, AG 200.3 (PO),
OMGUS, 4 March 1948. Concerns re-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
placement of military personnel by
civilians.

Order No. 1 Issued Pursuant to
Military Government Law No. 56 En-
titled “Prohibition of Monopolistic
Conditions in the German Motion
Picture Industry,“ AG 004 (BA),
OMGUS, 5 March 1948. This orders is
effective as of 8 March 1948.

Letter Implementing Allied Control
Authority Control Council Law No. 62
which is the Repeal of Certain Laws,
Ordinances and Decrees Concerning
Churches Promulgated by the Nazi
Government, AG 010.6 (EC), OMGUS,
5 March 1948. This law becomes ef-
fective 20 March 1948.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests L 28-5, INT 28-1, D 52-2, L 29-3,
L 29-4, L 29-5, and L 29-6, AG 014.1
(SG), OMGUS, 8 March 1948, Con-
cerns L 28-5 Executive Regulations to
Article 69 of Military Government
Law No.59; INT 28-1 Draft Imple-
menting Regulations to Article 69 of
Restitution Law; D 52-2 Comment on
Question of Issuance of Implementing
Regulation under Article 59 of the
Restitution Law; L 29-3 Release of
Libraries From Dissolved Prisoner of
War Camps; L 29-4 Permission for
Members of Main Committee Pris-
oners of War to Visit British and
French POW Camps; L 29-5 Informa-
tion on the Return of German Pris-
oners of War and on Death During
Detention and L 29-6 Speedy Discharge
of Prisoners of War from British POW
Camps in Egypt.

General License No. 13 AG 010 (FA),
OMGUS, 9 March 1948. Concerns
blocking and control of property.

Amendment No. 2 to Regulation
No. 1 under Military Government Law
No. 56, AG 010.6 (ED), OMGUS,
9 March 1948. Gives substitution for
paragraph 2, Section IX, subject
“Effective Date and Service of Doc-
uments.”

Circular No. 23, Hq EUCOM,
10 March 1948. Section I-Transporta-
tion of German Civilians Within Ger-
many; Section II-Assistance by US
Army to Foreign Government and
their Representatives in US Area of
Control in Germany and Austria;
Section III-Assistance from US Mili-
tary Sources to Civilian Agencies and
Personnel; Section IV-Hunting and

Fishing Policy; Section V-Use of Hit
Kit and Section VI-Rescissions.

Staff Memorandum No. 8, Hq
EUCOM, 10 March 1948. Section I-
Redesignation of the Supply and In-
stallations Branch. This Division, is
redesignated as the Logistics Branch.
Section II-Announcment of Assigment.
Mr. George C. Carl, US Civilian, De-
partment of the Army, is the chief,
Logistics Branch. Section IIJ-Amend-
ment of Civil Affairs Division Letter,
“Reorganization of the Civil Affairs
Division,” 16 February 1948. Gives
substitution for EUCOM letter 16 Feb-
tuary 1948 to read “Logistics Branch"
instead of “Supply & Installations
Branch.”

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests D 54-2 and L 28-1, AG 014.1
(SG), OMGUS, 10 March 1948, D-54-2
Postponement of Control Council
Decision on Draft Juvenile Court Act
and L 28-1 Laenderrat Law Concern-
ing Provisions for Future Employment
of Denazification Personnel.

Weekly Directive No. 10, Hq
EUCOM, 12 March 1948. Contains the
following: Sec. I-Change of Name and
Birth Data, AG 201.7 AGP. This con-
cerns officer and enlisted personnel
records. Sec. II-Personnel Receiving
Additional Pay (Other than AAF),
AG 241.17 AGP-B, Concerns accurate
statistics data to be reported under
Reports Control Symbol WDGPA-98.
Sec. III-Emergency Return of Military
Personnel to the Zone of the Interior,
AG 210.711 AGP-M. Sec. IV-Paper
Conservation Program, AG 462 CGM.
Sec. V-EUCOM Technical Service
Organization, AG 322 GSP. Gives sub-
stitution for EUCOM letter, AG 322
GSP-AGO, 16 January 1948. Sev. VI-
Boards of Officers, AG 334 FIN. Con-
cerns appointments under the pro-
visions of paragraph 11d, AR 35-6920,
and governed by the provisions of
DA Circular 16, 1948. Sec. VII-
Reclamation of Unauthorized Enter-
tainment Film, AG 331.7 SSP. Con-
cerns rented i6mm and 35mm film
misplaced, lost, stolen or otherwise
misappropriated. Sec, VIII-Collection
for Charge Sales to EES, AG 331.3
GSP. After 1 March 1948, no issues of
POL products other than gear box
lubricants and greases, subsistence
items and expendable items, will be

sold to EES except upon exchange of
EES of bulk POL coupons as prescrib-
ed by EUCOM Cir. 94, 1947. Sec. IX-
Transfer of Syphilis Register, AG 710
MCH-PM. Quotes from Changes 6, AR
40-210, 16 January 1948 regarding pro-
curement of the register from the
treating agency and for placing it
with the individual's service record
and allied papers when he transfers
to his new station. Sec. X-Weekly
Check of Particular Entries in Certain
Personnel Records, AG 333 AGX,
Sec. XI-Policy Governing Filling of
Individual Requisitions, AG 210.3
GPA. Sec. XII-US Military Assistance
to Civilian Labor in Occupied Coun-
tries, AG 620 GSP. This concerns in-
digenous personnel in the US area of
control in Germany and the US Forces
in Austria. Sec. XIII-Standards of
Serviceability for Ordnance Equip-
ment, AG 400 GSP. The provisions of
Ordnance Technical Instructions
No. 58, 4 February 1948 will apply to
the following additional units: 18th
Infantry Regiment and 7931 Ordnance
Evacuation Company. Sec. XIV-Ex-
press Shipments to Austria, AG 461
RYT. Gives provision for shipping to
military consignees. Sec, XV-Switzer-
land Tour, AG 200.4 SSP, Sec. XVI-
Uniform Regulations For Foreign
Liaison Personnel, AG 322.0 ALC.
Sec. XVII-Registration of Pneumatic
Tires by Serial Number, AG 451.01
GSP. Sec. XVIII-Change of Mail
Address for EUCOM Chief Quarter-
master and Chief Surgeon, AG 311.18
AGO. Their address since moving to
Heidelberg is changed from APO 757
to APO 403, Sec. XIX-Confidential
Red Cross Reports, AG 080 GPA. Con-
cerns reports furnished on requests of
commanding officers according to par-
agraph 8, AR 850-75. Sec. XX-Courses
of Instruction at European Command
Intelligence School, AG 352 TIE.
Sec. XXI-Part time Instructors and
Assistant Instructors in Army Educa-
tion Centers, AG 231.2 Sec. XXII-
Quotas for and Disposition of
Graduates From 7701 EUCOM Band
Training Unit, AG 322 GOT. Sec. XXIII-
Petroleum Products for Tourists in
Italy, AG 463.7 GPA. Sec. XXIV-
Family Groups Returning to the United
States by Air, AG 292 GPA. Sec. XXV-
Rescissions, AG 461 AGO.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF