--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE OF US Military GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

TROOP INFORMATION
AND EDUCATION

seat suet
Hel Home of the European Edition’

| STARS AND STRIPES

MAY 4, 1948

, NO. 134
‘sue: COURTS IN GERMANY

“i

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

TROOP INFORMATION AND EDU-
CATION — — This is the main street
of plodding, rural Pfungstadt, where
The Stars and Stripes is published for
the US occupation forces and per-
sonnel under the auspices of Troop
Information and Education, EUCOM.

An article dealing with troop informa-
tion and education appears on page 12
of this issue, (S&S Photo}

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities TABLE OF CONTENTS
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest Issue No. 134 May 4, 1948
organizations in the United States. The
Information Bulletin is distributed

Occupational Activities . 2:
without charge as a public service. f ¥
The editorial staff of the Information Courts in Germany (First of two articles) 2
Bulletin is a section of the Reports Revised Postal Books Authorized dh,
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS. Mem- US Blames Soviets for ACC Impasse... ... 8
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid,
editor; Henry S. Matteo, assistant Farmers Lend a Helping Hand . . . - . 5. . WM

editor; Val Green Bowman, writer; Troop Information and Education . . .. . . . 12
Mary Catherine Sullivan, reporter. Its

ERP—and German, Opportunity .: ., . -jasimscosch reouh
Office is located in the Reports Branch
Building, 20 Saargemuender Strasse, Aid to School System Urged . . . . . . - . . 18
Berlin-Dahlem. Its mailing address is: Editorial Opinion in German Press .... ... 21
Informati
rmation Bulletin, Control Office Bizonia Halts People’s Congress. . . . . . . . 23

OMGUS, Berlin, Germany; APO 742, 5 5
US Army. Telephone numbers are Official TnsHuCHOnS 4) 19 rantisnes, Tanciicinelahs a meas
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227.
Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
Cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-

Mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source cited OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

With the article, CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Allied Control Authority

The Control Council failed to hold
its regular meeting on April 10, The
US Military Governor, who was chair-
man in April, said there had been no
request for a meeting from any of the
delegations and no subject had been
presented for discussion.

Bipartite-Bizonal

Joint Allied-German meetings were
held on March 31 and April 1. It was
emphasized by Military Government,
and agreed by the German represent-
atives, that the Bizonal Administration
must view its inclusion in ERP in the
light of the contribution to be made
to the recovery of Western Europe as
a whole, rather than simply as a
means of obtaining aid from abroad.

The chairmen of the Bipartite Con-
trol Office directed that the Economic
Council designate a committee, includ-
ing representatives of the labor ad-
ministrations and other interested Ger-
man groups, to work with Military
Government representatives on plans
for the establishment of a Bizonal
Manpower Department.

They also obtained approval from
the Bipartite Board to conclude agree-
ments with the administrations of
other European standard-gauge rail-
ways for restoration of the prewar
system of international exchange of
freight cars, and recommended to the
Bipartite Board that all telephone cir-
cuits presently available to the Bi-
zonal Area be made available to the
French Zone authorities.

A mixed Allied and German work-
ing party under British chairmanship
was established to examine the Ger-
man iron and steel industry and to
make proposals for a speedy increase
in production,

Dr. Herbert Ruscheweyh accepted
appointment as chief justice of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ACTON ALES

German High Court for the combined
economic area.

All but two of the other nominees
approved for appointment by the Bi-
partite Board have announced their
willingness to accept. Eight additional
candidates for the two vacancies so
created are being selected by the
Economic Council and the Bizonal
Council of States.

The Bipartite Board approved Eco-
nomic Council Ordinance No: 20 pro-
viding the statutory basis for price

The section on Occupational
Activites is compiled from the
Semimothly Report of Military
Government No. 88; official an-
nouncements by MG and affili-
ated organizations, and public
information offices throughout
the US Zone, to give a summary
of developments throughout the
occupied area of Germany.

formation and price supervision in the
combined economic area.

According to the ordinance, the Eco-
nomic Council is responsible for the
general principles of price policy and
for affirmative action on any price
change fundamentally affecting the
price structure,

The Bizonal Director for Economics
is given broad power to issue regu-
lations and determine prices wherever
they concern more than one state;
and the state authorities are given the
Tesponsibility for price supervision
and enforcement.

Grain collections from July 1, 1947
to March 15, 1948 totaled 1,815,600 tons
(preliminary figure). Grain collections
in February were greater for the first
time than in the corresponding month
of a preceding year.

2

The rising trend in hard coal Pro- |
duction of the first half of March was
reversed in the week ending March 28,

when average daily output dropped to ;
276,715 tons, calculated on a five-day i
working week, compared to 298,810 4
tons in the previous week. It declined —
again in the week ending April 4 to
262,966 tons. The recession is attribut- ;
ed both to the Easter holidays and to
the completion of the qualifying period
for the third CARE package for miners,

The Joint Export-Import Agency
(JEIA) has approved the payment of
expenditures (pilotage etc.) to permit
the operation of German coasta
vessels between the North Germa
ports and the Ruhr-Rhine a b
way of Rotterdam. a

Good hydro-generating condition
and satisfactory functioning of stea
plants resulted in fairly good pow
output for the week ending April 7.
Exports were reduced by the ove
hauling of connecting lines and the
termination of agreed winter deliv-
eries to Austria. :

The production of aluminum wa
resumed in the Bizonal Area on Mar
25 to the extent of reducing
bauxite and alumina remaining in
area from war-time stocks, The pro:
duction at the Toeging (Bavaria) pla
of Vereinigte Aluminium-Werke A.G,
the first plant to be reactivated, is
expected to be 300 to 400 tons per
month for the first few months.

The production of newsprint declin
ed in the two-week period endin ng
April 3 to 2,398 tons, compared to
3,126 tons in the preceding two weeks
The decrease was caused by
Easter holidays.

Sixty-two of the 69 peacetime indus
trial plants earmarked for reparatit
under the Bizonal Revised Level-0!
Industry Plan were dismantled ©
schedule by March 31. Dismantlil

(Continued on page”

MAY 4, #

--- Page 6 ---
COURTS Gemay

N 1942, AT ABOUT the same time

the United States Supreme Court
was writing “of the duty which rests
on the courts, in time of war as well
as in time of peace, to preserve un-
impaired the constitutional safeguards
of civil liberty," Dr. Joseph Goebbels
undertook to instruct the judges of
the Nazi People’s Court in the
elements of jurisprudence, “In war-
time,” he explained, “it is nota matter
of whether a judgment is just or un-
just but whether the decision is ex-
pedient."” Furthermore, "The idea that
the judge must be convinced of the
defendant's guilt is to be discarded
completely. .. One must proceed not
from the law but from the resolution
that the man must be wiped out.”

These two quotations are more than
capsule commentaries on democratic
and totalitarian theories of law; they
also illustrate the relative positions of
the judiciary in the two countries.
The reader who can visualize a Ger-
man court that would talk back to
Dr. Goebbels will have no trouble
imagining a situation in which an
American cabinet member would
lecture the Supreme Court on its re-
sponsibilities, The odds on either pos-
sibility are roughly the same. In
America the judge speaks ex cathedra
(by virtue of his office) and as the
final authority. In Nazi Germany he
existed principally as an administra-
tive appendage of the executive
branch of government.

Purely on the theoretical side, it
might be argued that Germany was
at war and that the Minister of Prop-
aganda and Public Enlightenment was
justified in demanding some abridg-
ment of civil liberties in the interest
of national security. But America also
Was at war and, paradoxically, more
than ever concerned over individual
Nights. In the summer of 1942 the

MAY 4, 1948

By M. A. Weightman
Reports Officer, Legal Division,
OMGUS

Wehrmacht was riding high in Russia,
and our North African invasion was
still around the corner. The German
national existence seemed in no im-
mediate peril.
HE FACT IS, of course, that Goeb-
bels’ excursion into legal theory

Justice as meted out during the
Nazi regime is described in
The first of two articles on
Courts in Germany. The second
article, dealing with Military
Government's efforts to reform
and rebuild the courts and the
administration of justice since
1945, will appear in issue No. 135
of the Information Bulletin.

was neither a breaking of new ground
nor an isolated act. It was just one
incident in a series which had begun
many years before. Hitler's explana-
tion of his conduct in suppressing the
Roehm Putsch of 1934 was another
link in the same chain. It is remark-
able for its candor and for the fact
that it established as a matter of
public record the official attitude of
the Nazi Party toward law and the
judiciary: “Whenever someone re-
proaches me with not having used the
ordinary courts, I can only say to him:
‘At that hour I was responsible for
the fate of the German nation and
hence the Supreme Law Lord (Ober-
ster Gerichtsherr) of the German
people.’”

An understanding of how this
degradation of the judicial func-
tion was achieved and what it meant

3

is crucial to a general understanding
of the nature of National Socialism.
In some respects it is implied by Ger-
many's political history and by the
manner in which German law devel-
oped.

German law is not the product of
an uninterrupted development. At least
two factors have operated to prevent
this. For one thing, Germany did not
achieve a national existence until 1871,
and even after that date the federal
structure of the Reich tended to en-
courage the perpetuation of regional
legal traditions, For another, the
natural growth of a common or folk
law was stopped short by the intro-
duction of Roman law, which had
been rediscovered by scholars at the
Italian universities, in the 14th and
15th centuries.

INGLAND, unified politically and

isolated geographically, was able
to stand firm, and the common law
flourished unchecked. Based on an
ever-expanding series of judicial pre-
cedents rather than on statute, the
common law nevertheless proved
itself capable of adapting itself to
changing social conditions. Its essence
came to be a firm reliance on the
spirit rather than on the letter. As
Chief Justice Holmes of the United
States Supreme Court wrote "The life
of the law is not logic but expe-
rience.”

The absolutism of Roman law called
for the categorization of all laws in
rigid and comprehensive codes. During
the 16th and 17th centuries many
German states, principalities and
towns enacted such codes, but it was
not until 1871 that a criminal code
uniform for all of Germany was pro-
mulgated. Other Reich codes followed
in swift succession.

The creation of a law applicable to
all of Germany did not imply, how-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
ever, a centralized administration of
justice. Before 1933 a Reich Ministry
of Justice existed, but its administra-
tive functions were limited to super-
vision of the Supreme Court (Reichs-
gericht), the Supreme Economic Court
(Reichswirtschaftsgericht) and the
Patent Office.

There were also a few special types
of courts under other Reich ministries.
All other courts were supervised by
the state ministries, which also con-
trolled prisons, set standards for legal
education and admission to the bar,
and appointed judges and public
prosecutors.

German ordinary courts included
the Supreme Court, Courts of Appeal
(Oberlandesgerichte), District Courts
(Landgerichte), and Local Courts
(Amtsgerichte). In addition, there was
a complex of courts of special or
limited jurisdiction, including Labor
Courts, Administrative Courts, Honor
Courts for Attorneys, Entailed Estates
Courts, Shipping Courts, and Prize
Courts, Not all of these were under
the Ministry of Justice.

ANY OF THESE tribunals per-

formed quasi-judicial functions
which, in the United States, would be
assigned either to the regular courts
or to such agencies as the National
Labor Relations Board or the Inter-
state Commerce Commission. Juris-
diction over criminal cases was care-
fully restricted, the Weimar Consti-
tution forbidding the establishment of
“extraordinary” courts.

During the economic crisis of the
early 1930's, however, a number of
ordinances and regulations, issued
under emergency provisions of Ar-
ticle 48 of the Constitution, attempt-
ed to curb political unrest and in so
doing curtailed procedural rights to a
dangerous degree. The way was now
open for the establishment by the
first von Papen government of Spe-
cial Courts (Sondergerichte) to try
certain political offenses. These
courts, in their composition and proce-
dure, foreshadowed later Nazi efforts
along the same lines.

This was the situation, then, which
greeted National Socialism upon its
accession to power in 1933:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dr. Hermann Weit, minister of economics for Wuerttemberg - Baden,
speaks at ceremonies marking the transfer of the US Army medical

depot at Weinheim to the German economy.

$2,700,000 worth of supplies.

1. codified law, drafted by men
trained in the technique of Roman
law, was in force throughout Ger-
many, The spirit which lay behind it
may have been over-impressed by the
formal content of the statute and
favorably disposed to abrupt legis-
lative change. This was perhaps to
Hitler's advantage.

2.The actual administration of
justice was decentralized among the
states. A strong regional tradition
might have been expected to resist
the trend toward totalitarianism.
Hitler undertook first to consolidate
his own position. On March 24, 1933,
the Reichstag passed the Enabling
Act, turning over its powers to Hit-
ler's government and, in effect, trans-
ferring the legislative function to the
executive. Next, as has already been
pointed out, he assumed the title of
Supreme Law Lord, or Supreme Judge.
In two quick strokes he had arrogated
to himself the powers and functions
which, in America, are distributed
among the President, the Congress
and the Supreme Court in a pattern
of checks and balances designed to
make abuse of authority impossible.
Whatever checks and balances re-
mained in Germany after 1934 had

4

The depot contains

High-ranking American and German
officials are shown at the ceremonies.

(Signal Corps)

their existence in the mind .of one
man.

AVING VESTED in himself the™
necessary powers, Hitler was
now ready to attack the organizational
structure of the courts. In 1934 the
sovereign powers of the states were
transferred to the Reich, and in Sep-
tember of the following year State
Ministries of Justice were liquidated
and their legal powers centralized in
Berlin. The stage was set for a uniform
and  systematized exploitation of
justice, i
Creation of new tribunals, prin-
cipally for the trial of political and

racial cases, had already begun. The ~
People's Court, or Volksgerichtshof, —

was a child of the Reichstag fire. When

the Supreme Court acquitted three of —

the four defendants in the trial which

followed that event, its jurisdiction in —
cases of treason was taken away .
and given to the Poeple’s Court, which —

was to be composed of two profes-

sional judges and five trusted Nazi

laymen, The number of lay represent —
atives was later reduced to three. It
is interesting to note that van der
Lubbe, the one defendant convicted im
the Reichstag trial, was senten

MAY 4,

--- Page 8 ---
under a law passed after the alleged
crime was committed.

Hereditary Farm Courts, Peasants
Courts and Hereditary Health Courts
were created to implement Nazi
theories of blood and soil, and the
purity of the German race. Finally,
von Papen’'s Special Courts were re-
vived to permit prosecution under
favorable conditions of a variety of
newly-invented criminal offenses.

T MIGHT BE supposed that the En-

abling Act had provided an ad-
equate instrument for the translation
of National Socialist ideology into law.
Under its provisions, the executive
could deviate not only from constitu-
tional procedures but also from the
substance of the constitution itself.
If Hitler wanted to make free speech
a capital offense, he had only to say
so: it was law.

But apparently this power was not
broad enough. Punishment had to be
meted out for those offenses which
would have been crimes if it had
occured to the Fuehrer to make them
so. The law of June 28, 1935, defined
crime by analogy—that is, crime
which owed its existence to the fact
that it resembled a recognized stat-
utory crime—and crime according to
“the sound instinct of the people.” In
addition, the courts were authorized
to pronounce sentence on alternate
grounds; thus a person might be con-
victed for theft or receiving stolen
goods if neither offense was satis-
factorily proved but it appeared that
one or the other had taken place.

ANS FRANK, President of the

Academy of German law, sum-
med up the new approach: “In the
future, criminal behavior, even if it
does not violate an existing law, can
receive the deserved punishment if
the offense is criminal according to
the healthy feeling of the people.”
A second thought on the matter was
contained in his statement before the
International Military Tribunal in
1946: “A thousand years will pass,
and this guilt of Germany will still
not be erased."

These doctrines were perhaps the
Most revolting of all Nazi legal in-
ovations. If by virtue of some supra-
tational insight or, more probably, be-

MAY 4, toi

cause Hitler told him so, the judge
detected crime where none had been
before, he merely had to find a suit-
able analogy or fit it into the elastic
framework of “the sound instinct of
the people.”

Superficially, it might appear that
this Nazi theory of law, in which the
judge was permitted to deviate almost
at will from the formal statute, re-
sembles the Anglo-American common
law, where every effort is made to
test the facts against accumulated
experience in the form of procedents.
Nothing could be further from the
truth, The touchstone of the common
law is still justice; Nazi judicial
reasoning functioned in the rarefied,
and frequently cloudy, atmosphere of
“the will of the Fuehrer,” “the healthy
sentiment of the people,” and “Ger-
man Blood and Honor.”

Crimes of this esotoric type were
usually tried in Special Courts or the
People's Court, and the history of
these tribunals is an accurate reflec-
tion of the degeneration of justice
under Hitler.

The Decree of March 21, 1933, set
forth procedural regulations for the
Special Courts. The pre-trial judicial
examination required under the Code
of Criminal Procedure was eliminated.
Any offer of evidence could be
refused, “if the court has come to
the conclusion that the evidence is
not necessary for clearing up the
case." There was no appeal against
decisions of Special Courts, and sen-
tences were to be promptly executed.
At least one Special Court was to be
attached to each Court of Appeals.
In actual practice they proved so
useful that a Special Court was set
up as a chamber in each District
Court. Provided they had proved
themselves reliable Nazis, the same
judges sat in both the Special Courts
and the regular criminal courts.

HEN THE PEOPLE'S Court was

organized the following year,
it began to acquire its share of po-
litical and racial cases. Since origin-
ally it had jurisdiction only over
cases of treason and high treason,
it was necessary to redefine these
offenses, and a 1934 law gave the

US, British and French trains remain idle at the Grunewald yards, Berlin.
The Western Powers cancelled military train service after imposition
of new Soviet Zone travel restrictions, announced on March 30. The
Soviets had insisted on having their troops board and inspect trains
traveling through their zone between Berlin and the western zones.
Since the new restrictions, only a few US trains have reached Berlin
with supplies. Air service is handling passenger travel and maintaining

supply lines for Americans in Berlin.

5

(Signal Corps)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
court extensive discretionary powers
in deciding what treason was and how
it should be punished. The growing
caseload ultimately led to the estab-
lishment of five separate chambers,
or Senates, which met in various
cities as occasion arose. The seat of
the People’s Court remained in Berlin.
The building is now ACA head-
quarters, with the Control Council
meeting in the former main courtroom.

The fact that it was necessary to
have a court with exclusive juris-
diction over treason cases—and that
this court was almost continously in
session—gives some Clue to its nature.
The number of treason cases tried
in the United States during the past
century could be counted on the
fingers of one hand. But in Germany
treason came to mean little more
than opposition to National Socialism,
whether active or passive, and “‘trai-
tors were numbered in the thou-
sands,

S TIME WENT on new laws

widened the jurisdiction of these
extraordinary tribunals, The courts
were vested with power to impose the
death sentence in an increasingly
greater variety of offenses, such as
that of listening to foreign radio broad-
casts. With the advent of war they
really came into their own. The
People's Court was given jurisdiction
over violations of certain war ordin-
ances; Night and Fog (Nacht und
Nebel) cases were assigned to the
Special Courts,

Nigth and Fog grew out of civilian
resistance to German occupation, a
matter of: grave concern to the High
Command. In the summer of 1941 a
memorandum issued by Field Marshall
Keitel put the case with some frank-
ness: “In view of the vast size of the
occupied areas in the East, the forces
available for security purposes in
those areas will be sufficient only if
all resistance is punished not by
legal prosecution of the guilty, but
by spreading of such terror ... as is
alone appropriate to eradicate every
inclination to resist among the pop-
ulation.” This statement might serve
as a preamble to the Night and Fog
Decree itself, which was issued four
months later, on the same day the
Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

One hundred fifty former Austrian internees of the Dachau concen-
tration camp stand in front of the camp crematorium during a memorial
service for the 238,000 persons who were cremated there during the
Nazi regime. A priest gives thanks for those who were spared. The
Austrians made a special pilgrimage to the camp on the 10th anni-

versary of its founding.

In a covering letter, Keitel explain-
ed further: “Efficient and enduring
intimidation can only be achieved by
capital punishment or by measures by
which the relatives of the criminal
and the general population do not
learn his fate." Under the decree
those accused of resistance could be
turned over to Military commissions
(Standgerichte), which, however, had
power only to acquit or to impose
the death sentence. If the death sen-
tence was ordered, it had to be car-
ried out within 24 hours, If outright
acquittal did not appear likely or the
death sentence a certainty, the com-
missions did not handle the case at
all. The prisoner was taken to Ger-
many and delivered to the Ministry
of Justice for trial by the Special
Courts,

Elaborate precautions were taken
to insure that no one _ outside
Germany would ever discover what
disposition had been made of Night
and Fog cases. The accused was
not permitted to call witnesses or
to introduce evidence on his own

6

(Signal Corps photo)

behalf because some word might get
back to his family at home. No ree-
ord was kept of the proceedings or
of the sentence. In 1943 the courts
were ordered not to appoint defense
counsel unless the accused was un-
able to defend himself. Since in most
cases the victim did not learn the
charges against him until a few mo-
ments before the trial, and since he
was not allowed to introduce either
witnesses or evidence, it is doubtful
whether even the ablest lawyer
could have helped him,

,
4
4

PERSON convicted in one of these
secret trials and given other than ~
the death sentence was confined in @ —
prison or concentration camp where ie
even the jailers did not know his
name. In the unlikely event that he ~
was acquitted or if he had completed
his sentence, he was turned over to
the SS for “protective custody” for
the duration of the war, i ;
The Night and Fog Decree was —
applied in France, Belgium, Holland, —
Denmark, Norway and Czechoslo-
vakia. Indeed, its provisions W

MAY 4, 19487

--- Page 10 ---
.

stretched to include purely political
offenses committed within the Reich
itself. The secrecy in which the pro-
gram was shrouded makes any pre-
cise estimate of the number of victims
it claimed an impossibility, but Min-
istry records indicated that the figure
was in excess of 7,000 as early as
the Spring of 1944,

In 1942 the People’s Court began to
teceive its share of Night and Fog
cases. But Hitler, who had refused
a Wehrmacht request to try these
cases on the ground that Army jus-
tice was not supporting the war
effort vigorously enough, finally grew
impatient with the manner in which
the Ministry of Justice was cooperat-
ing. In 1944 he ordered the transfer
of all Night and Fog cases to the
Gestapo.

'F THE SPECIAL Courts, staffed with

Party members and pursuing Party
ends, could not meet Hitler’s exacting
standards, it is no wonder that the
ordinary courts often failed to please
him. In his capacity of Supreme Law
Lord, he took a keen interest in the
administration of justice. As one Nazi
official expressed it, “Here is a man
who represents the ideal of the judge
in its perfect sense and the German
people elected him for their judge—
first of all, of course, as judge over
their fate in general, but also as
‘Supreme Magistrate and Judge.'”
Hitler accepted this latter role quite
literally,

The personal interest which he took
in relatively minor cases caused some
consternation in the Ministry of Jus-
tice, which never knew what he
would dig up next. After a number of
1ebuffs, Acting Minister Schlegelber-
ger wrote, in 1941: “It would be in-
valuable if you, my Fuehrer, would
bring it to my attention when a ver-
dict does not meet with your ap-
Proval. The judges are responsible to
you, my Fuehrer; they are conscious
of their responsibility and are firmly
Tesolved to discharge their duties
accordingly ... Heil, my Fuehrer!”

This somewhat humiliating plea
was scarcely necessary, since Hitler
never hesitated to express his dis-
approval of a judgment and to cause

MAY 4, 1948

it to be set aside. Upon his personal
orders, those sentenced to prison
terms by the courts were turned over
to the Gestapo for execution, Some-
times his will found its way into the
proper legal channels. When he ob-
jected that a sentence in a certain
case was too light, Schlegelberger was
able to report that within 10 days of
the original complaint the Supreme
Court had quashed the sentence and
the prisoner had been executed.

Evidently Hitler was unimpressed.
In an impassioned speech before the
Reichstag on April 26, 1942, he an-
nounced his dissatisfaction with the
judiciary and his intention to remove
“without regard to his person or his
established rights whoever, in my
view and according to my considered
opinion, has failed to do his duty.”
Four months later he authorized the
Reich Minister of Justice “to deviate
from any existing law’ in exercising
control over the judiciary and its
decisions.

N ORDER TO bring the actual ad-

ministration of justice more closely
into line with what Hitler wanted,
the Ministry undertook in September
of that year the distribution of Judges
letters, or Richterbriefe, which told
the bench exactly what was expected
of it. One such letter discussed a
case in which a special coffee ration
had been distributed in a small town.
A number of Jews applied for the
ration but naturally did not receive
it, whereupon the food authorities
imposed fines upon them for making
unsuccessful application.

One Jew appealed to the local
court, which decided that the fines
were illegal. The letter of comment
is perhaps as good an example as
any of what 10 years of Nazism had
done to the legal mind.

“The judge should have asked
himself, ‘What is the reaction of the
Jew to a decision which, without de-
voting one word to the healthy folk
attitude toward this insolent and
arrogant Jewish conduct, takes 20 pages
to prove that he and 500 other Jews
are right and victorious over a Ger-
man authority?’

“Even if the judge was convinced
that the Food Office had arrived at
an incorrect judgment ... he should
have chosen a form for his ruling
which avoided ‘at all costs harming
the prestige of the Food Office and
thus putting the Jew expressly in the
tight toward it.”

It is a matter of some wonder that
the Jew, so utterly and thoroughly
divested of his legal rights, was per-
mitted to appeal at all. A decree
issued in 1942 directed that Jews and
Poles must never appear as. witnesses
in court against Germans. If it was
absolutely necessary to have their
testimony, they were to be inter-
rogated privately and their evidence
received “with utmost caution.” They
were not sworn, but were of course
liable to prosecution for perjury. As
early as 1941 Jews in the Eastern ter-
ritory could be put to death not only
for such offenses as anti-German
utterances or defacement of official
notices, but even for serious con-
templation of such acts.

As the war ground to its conclusion,
the last vestiges of justice were dis-
carded, In January, 1944, a decree
provided that no defendant in any
court was entitled to defense counsel
if the judge decided it was un-
necessary. In May of the same year
judges were freed from all restrictions
as to penalties to be imposed in crim-
inal cases. Those offenders
judicing or endangering
effort—and the court was given
widest latitude in interpretation—
could be put to death if the punish-
ment prescribed by law was “insuffi-
cient for expiation of the act accord-
ing to the sentiment of the people.”
And virtually no appeals could be
taken against judgments of any court.

pre-
the war

HE HISTORICAL facts connected
with the breakdown of justice
under the Third Reich are easily
ascertained. The laws are on the
books, the speeches were carefully
reported, the memoranda were filed
away with German thoroughness.
More difficult to assess in the char-
acter of the men who, if they did
not actually support the corruption
of justice, were unable either to
(Continued on page 16)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
US BLAMES SOVIETS FOR ACC IMPASSE

Note Cites Systematic Unilateral Policy Pursued in Soviet Zone;
Basic Rights Are Being Denied, Concentration Camps Are in Use

The United States, in a note to the
Soviet Union made public on March
26, said the threat to the authority of
the Allied Control Council arises not
from the actions of the United States,
but rather from the consistent pursuit
by the Soviet Union, in the Soviet
Zone of Germany, of a systematic
unilateral policy.

The note said that the responsibility
for the failure of the Soviet Union to
include its zone in the economic ar-
rangement made by the United States
and the United Kingdom in their zones
lies upon the Soviet Union itself.

Basic human rights, the note said,
are being denied the population in the
Soviet Zone, and concentration camps
are being used again.

The note, which was in reply to a
note of March 6 by the Soviet Union
concerning discussions held in London
among the United States, United King-
dom and France on the future of
Germany, follows in part:

N THIS (Soviet) note of March 6,

the Soviet Government reiterated
the views expressed in the Soviet
Embassy's communication of Feb. 13,
1948, to the effect that the London
discussions were in agreement on
control machinery for Germany.

In its memorandum of Feb, 21, 1948,
the Department of State pointed out
that these talks were arranged for a
discussion of problems in Germany
of mutual interest to the three Gov-
ernments and that there is no pro-
vision in the Potsdam agreement, or
other agreements relating to Germany
concluded by the four occuping pow-
ers, which prevents any of the powers
from discussing between themselves
questions of common concern.

The US Government notes that the
Soviet Government continues to fail
to recognize that the three powers
have been obliged to consult among
themselves at this time as a result of
the unwillingness of the Soviet Gov-
ernment to implement the principles

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of economic unity as well as other
principles of the Potsdam agreement.
The Soviet Government claims that
the other occupying powers have
undertaken a series of unilateral
actions, contrary to the four-power
agreement with respect to Germany.

The Soviet Government cites, as
the first expression of such policy, the
agreement between Great Britain and
the United States with respect to the
economic fusion of their respective
zones of occupation in Germany. The
note of the Soviet Government states:

“It is well known that the question
of creating a unified Anglo-American
zone was not even submitted for the
consideration of the Control Council.”
This statement does not correspond
to the facts. At the meeting of the
Allied Control Council in Berlin on
July 20, 1946, General McNarney (then
the US Military Governor) made the
following statement on behalf of his
Government:

“The US Government is of the view
that no zone in Germany is self-
sustaining, The treatment of two or
more zones as an economic unit
would improve conditions in the
zones concerned.

“Therefore, the US Government has
authorized its representative on the
Allied Control Council to join with
the representatives of any other
occupying power or powers in meas-
ures for the treatment of our re-
spective zones as an economic unit,
pending quadripartite agreement
which would permit the application
of the Potsdam decision to treat all
of Germany as an economic unit so
as to attain a balanced economy
throughout Germany.

“While the United States would
prefer quadripartite agreement to im-
plement the Potsdam decision for the
establishment of central German ad-
ministrative agencies for Germany as
a whole, its representative is pre-
pared to cooperate with the repre-

8

sentatives of any or all of the other
occupying powers in Germany in
establishing administrative arrange-
ments to secure economic unity.

“The United States does not intend”
by its present proposal to divide Ger-
many but rather to expedite its treat-
ment as an economic unit.

“Any arrangements which represent-
atives of the United States may make
with the representatives of any other
occupying power will be open on
equal terms to the representatives of
all other occupying powers at any
time they are prepared to participate.

“The US Government proposes this
arrangement because of its belief that
Germany can no longer be administer-
ed in four air-tight compartments
without free economic interchange,
unless economic paralysis is the re-
sult. The US Government is unwilling
to permit creeping economic paralysis
to grow if it is possible to attain
economic unity between its zone and
any other zone in Germany as a pre-
lude to economic unity for all
Germany.”

CCORDING to the official minutes
of the Allied Control Council
(CONL/M(46)19), the meeting agreed
in view of the unpreparedness of the
other delegations to defer considera-
tion of the US proposal. At the next
meeting on July 30, 1946, according to
the official minutes (CONL/M(46)20),
the Control Council considered the
US Government's proposal. At this
meeting Marshall Douglas, (then the
British Military Governor) announced
that after full consideration the Brit-
ish Government had authorized him
to accept, in principle, General
McNarney’s offer. Comments on the
US proposal were made by the Soviet
representative at this meeting and by
the French representative at sub-
sequent meetings.
It should be recalled that the same
offer of the US Government to join
its zone economically with that of

MAY 4, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
any other occupying power had pre-
viously been made before the Council
of Foreign Ministers by the Secretary
of State, Mr. Byrnes, on July 11, 1946,
at Paris, and was subsequently re-
iterated by him in an address at Stutt-
gart on Sept, 6, 1946, The responsi-
bility for rejection of this offer and
for failure to include its zone in this
economic arrangement lies upon the
Soviet Union itself.

TY THREAT TO the authority of
the Allied Control Council does
not arise from the actions of the
United States, but rather from the
consistent pursuit by the Soviet Gov-
ernment in the eastern zone of Ger-
many of a systematic unilateral po-
licy of its own, The Soviet Govern-
ment has failed to observe the prin-
ciple of economic unity provided for
in Section III, B, 14, of the Potsdam
agreement,

It has Hkewise failed to insure, as
provided in Section III, B, 15 (C),
of the same agreement, “the equitable
distribution of essential commodities
between the several zones so as to
produce a balanced economy through-
out Germany and reduce the need
for imports.”

It has carried out reparation re-
movals of industrial capital equipment
from the eastern zone without re-
gard to agreed limitations on such
removals and without consideration
of the legitimate peacetime require-
ments of the German economy.

It has also continuously taken. rep-
aration in the form of resources and
current production contrary to the
understanding at Potsdam. The Soviet
Government under the guise of rep-
aration has taken into its possession
in gigantic trusts (the so-called Soviet
AG's) major industrial establish-
ments in the eastern zone accounting
for 25 to 30 percent of the total re-
maining industrial productive capacity.

The Soviet Government has further-
more carried out in its zone a uni-
lateral policy with respect to political
activity. The Potsdam agreement en-
visaged that local self-government
would be re-established throughout
Germany on democratic principles;
that all political parties with rights of
assembly and of public discussion

MAY 44, i948

should be allowed and encouraged;
and that representative and elective
principles should be introduced in the
various levels of government,

In actual practice, however, the
Socialist Party was suppressed by
the imposed amalgamation with the
Communist Party into the Socialist
Unity Party, which has become the
new bulwark for a totalitarian regime
in eastern Germany, while the other
authorized political parties have
been subjected to pressure, discrimi-
nation and intimidation, and have not
been enabled to function freely.

Basic human rights are being denied
the population, while concentration
camps are being used anew for in-
dividuals unwilling to accept this new
totalitarianism. It is the unilateral po-
licy of the Soviet Union which has
cut off eastern Germany from its
natural intercourse, political and
economic, with western Germany.

The Soviet Government not only
charges the other three governments
with the inadequate functioning of
the Allied Control Council but also
with the failure of the Council of
Foreign Ministers to reach agreement
on German questions during its 1947
sessions held in Moscow and London.
The officials records of these con-

ferences do not confirm the Soviet
Government's assertion that it made
efforts to bring about four-power
agreement by meeting half-way the
proposals of the other powers,

The Soviet Government resorts to
a curious logic when it seeks to de-
monstrate its assertion by enumerating
proposals of the Soviet Union not
found acceptable by the other three
powers. By a sincere effort to arrive
at reasonable compromises, the Gov-
ernments of the United States, were
United. Kingdom and France were
able to arrive at many agreed posi-
tions, only to find that the Soviet Gov-
ernment was not likewise ready to
seek solution acceptable to all four
powers,

T IS IMPOSSIBLE not to draw the

inference from the known proceed-
ings of the Allied Control Council
and the Council of Foreign Ministers
ihat the Soviet Government has been
pursuing in Germany objectives
different from those of the other oc-
cupying powers, who are seeking the
pacification of Germany and the
economic recovery of Europe as a
whole, including Germany,

This inference appears to be borne
out by the extensive remarks in the

(Signal Corps)

Members of the welfare group of the Nuremberg Military Post
Women's Club prepare clothing for distribution among the needy, The
clothing was sent from the United States by friends of the club members.
In the picture are (seated) Mrs. H. E. Bowen and Mrs, D. C, Clymer.

9

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Soviet Government's note of March 6
directed against American aid in the
economic recovery of Europe as well
as against the economic and political
cooperation of the United Kingdom,
France, Belgium, Holland and Luxem-
bourg confirmed in the treaty signed
at Brussels, March 17,

It is not these steps which have led
to the political cleavage of Europe as
claimed by the Soviet Government,
but rather prior actions of the Soviet
Government and a group of eastern
European states under Soviet in-
fluence which have disrupted the
normal framework of the European
community and. interfered with the
progress of recovery from the effects
of the war.

In the light of the foregoing, the
United States Government is not able
to agree with the Soviet Govern-
ment’s interpretation of the London
discussions on the German question.
The London discussions sought the
solution of the urgent political and
economic problems which have arisen
as a result of the continuous failure
to reach and implement quadripartite
agreement, due to the attitude of the
Soviet Government.

As was stated in the communique
issued on March 8 by the representa-
tives of the powers participating in
the informal London discussions: “The
participating powers had in view the
necessity of ensuring the economic
reconstruction of Western Europe in-
cluding Germany, and of establishing
a basis for the participation of a dem-
ocratic Germany in the community
of free peoples. While delay in reach-
ing these objectives can no longer be
accepted, ultimate four-power agree-
ment is in no way precluded.”

30-Day Visits Authorized

Foreign businessmen, including po-
tential buyers and sellers who require
accommodations from the occupation
authorities as well as those who can
arrange for their own food, lodging
and transportation, are now permitted
to remain in the Bizonal Area for
30 days during any six-month period,
the Joint Export-Import Agency at
Hoechst announced. The limit prior
to March 15 was 15 days.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Four hundred fifty thousand seedlings are being planted in heavily-cus
areas of the Grunewald in the US Sector of Berlin under a spring re- p
forestation program. Shown inspecting seedlings and checking on the
method of planting with German forestry officials and a Military Govern-
ment interpreter (right) is Mr. Andrew J. Nichols, (without hat) of the
Food and Agriculture Branch, Office of Military Government, Berlin

Sector.

Germans Suspicious of Politics

Germans in the: US-occupied area
have a definite suspicion of politics
and only 41 percent of those question-
ed in a recent survey believe that
individual participation in political
activities would help in the recon-
struction in Germany, the Information
Control Division, OMGUS, disclosed.

Along with several queries relating
specifically to politics, this pertinent
question was asked: “Would you be
willing to work an hour longer every
day for the reconstruction of Ger-
many?” Eighty-two percent of those
questioned answered “Yes.”

The German population's attitude
towards politics was undertaken by
the ICD Opinion Survey Section. The
survey was made in the US Zone and
in the US, British and French Sectors
of Berlin.

Thirty-six percent of the Germans
answered “No” to this question: “Do
you think it would help in the recon-
struction of Germany if more Germans
would take an interest in politics?”
Twenty-three percent of those inter-

10

(Signal Corps)

rogated had no opinion one way or
another, and 41 percent replied affirm-
atively.

One of the significant points re-
vealed by the survey was that the
classes of German most vigorous in
their contention that individual poli-
tical interest and activity would not
help Germany's reconstruction were
former members of the Nazi Party,
who represented 48 percent of those”
giving negative answers, and persons
having 12 years or more of formal
education, who made up the remainder
of that group.

Germans who do not believe poli-_
tical interest and activity would not
aid in Germany's recovery gave -
various reasons for their beliefs, For
example, 11 percent of those answer=
ing negatively said politics frightened
them; 10 percent saw greater promise —
in actual reconstruction work, and
expressed the opinion that obtaining
food and earning money were more
important than politics. Six percent ©
this group described politics as th
basis for discord and division.

MAY 4, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
Farmers Lend a Helping Hand
Dieburg ‘Maleos i 200, 000- Giana Potato Contribution

A Hessian rural county that gave the
Nazi regime a “hard time” in collect-
ing food, has emerged, under US Mil-
itary Government, as a model food
collection agency, the Office of Mil-
itary Government for Hesse has
announced.

The farmers of Dieburg, a small
strip of land in the foothills of the
Odenwald, contributed 1,200,000
pounds of potatoes from their own
authorized stores in order to help out
their less-fortunate fellow citizens,
while at the same time they produced
more than 96 percent of their assessed
quota.

The voluntary drive was the result
of a meeting on Feb. 2 of all mayors
and leading farmers of the county,
called by Karl Ritzert, who was
ousted as mayor of Darmstadt during
the Nazi regime.

Urging the farmers to cooperate in
helping city labor get a fair share of
potatoes, Ritzert, and Dieburg’s Senior
Liaison and Security Officer, Capt.
Mervin S. Clark, told the farmers that
factory workers could produce the
commodities agrarians wanted only
when properly fed,

Within five days after the meeting,
citizens’ committees had called on
every farmhouse in the county, asking
for 60 pounds of potatoes from each
individual self-supplier's authorized
400 pounds allowance. With almost
6,600 Dieburg farmers contributing in
varying amounts, the 600 tons of po-
tatoes were quickly collected.

Dr. James R. Newman, Director of
OMGH, called the campaign the “first
example of spontaneous consideration
of the welfare of their fellow man by
People notoriously independent under
the Nazis. No law was issued to force
these farmers to contribute, yet they
Voluntarily gave from their own pri-
vate, legally-permitted stocks to help
out their own people.

“This is tangible evidence,” New-
man continued, “that these people are
learning something of living together
m a wholesome cooperative spirit. It

MAY 4, 1948

is most encouraging to me to see man
helping his brother in times of stress.”

Captain Clark pointed out another
significant Dieburg trend. The county
is one of the leaders in the present
Hessian “signup” project, a plan
whereby farmers are asked to con-
tract to cultivate a specified acreage.

Coal Price Increased

An increase of RM 10 per ton on
the average price of hard coal has
been approved by the Bipartite Board.
This increase, which raises the
average price from RM 15 to RM 25
per ton, was recommended by the
German bizonal authorities and is
effective as of April 1, 1948.

As the new average price will not
meet the full production cost, the
Bipartite Board has also approved an
interim subsidy provision of RM 3 per
ton on hard coal produced during the
second quarter of 1948. A proviso is
made that this amount constitutes a
maximum limit for budgetary pur-
poses, but that actual payment of the
subsidy will be based upon proved
requirements of the hard coal industry.

Bizonia Will Receive
Eight More Depots

The US Army will turn over eight
more of its depots and installations
by June 30 to STEG, a German public
corporation, the OMSTEG Branch of
the Bipartite commeice and industry
group has announced.

These installations, plus the Med-
ical Depot at Weinheim which has
already been released, will complete
the turnover of a third of the 27 US
Army Depots marked for liquidation
under the terms of the recent bulk
sale agreement by which the Bizonal
Area economy receives all remaining
US Army surplus in Germany.

These depots include quartermaster,
ordnance and signal installations, two
vehicle parks containing trucks and
special purpose vehicles, and many
kinds of Army trailers,

Although no exact figure is avail-
able for the total value of the surplus
contained in the eight installations,
it has been estimated that the entire
27 depots which figure in the bulk sale
agreement contain stocks representing
an orginal cost of from RM 50,000,000,
to RM 1,000,000,000.

The installations are situated at
Griesheim, Wolfgang, Nuremberg,
Neu Aubing, and Mannheim.

Aluminium parts from wrecks of German and American warplanes are
shown being carted away from a field near Munich, to be smelted and
used in German industry. The program is being handled by STEG, a

German public organization.

11

(DENA-Bild)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
GOOD EDUCATION is the found-
upon which successful
careers are built; factual information
lessens the probability of misunder-
standing, allays rumors, and aids in

ation

arriving at a sound conclusion con-
cerning local, national, and
national problems.

inter-

Many years ago, the Army under-
stood fully the value of information
and education. With the advent of
World War II and the calling to the
colors of millions of young men,
funds were made available, and an
intensive information program was
launched. Educational opportunities
were provided in the form of the
United States Armed Forces Institute,
and the Army Specialized Training
Program.

The object of those programs, which
still remains the object of the Troop

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HiSTORY
OF THE

Group discussion, based on the Troop I&E Bulletin, is

the backbone of the US Army's troop information pro-

By Col. Otis McCormick

Chief, Troop Information and Education

Information and Education program,
was to “make the American soldier
the best informed of any Army and
to give him an opportunity to become
the best educated.”

Now, three years after the close of
the war, the Army still is operating
an extensive information and educa-
tion program. In Europe this is carried
out by the Troop Information and
Education Service of the European
Command. This Service, consisting of
the Chief's office in Frankfurt, the
7700 Troop Information and Education
Group in Stuttgart, The Stars and
Stripes at Pfungstadt, and the Ameri-
can Forces Network with the key
station in Frankfurt, covers the entire
US Zone in its activities.

12

gram. Here, a group reviews the history of World War I.

(TI&E photo}

ation & Cducation

The Service brings to the troops
their weekly information program,
offers them chances for education,
provides them daily with an 18-hour
radio program consisting of news,
other information, and entertainment,
and a daily newspaper, (The Stars and
Stripes) and its weekly magazine
supplement, WEEKEND.

Working with a small force of ad-
ministrators, educators, writers, and
research men, the 7700 Troop I&E
Group, Stuttgart, supervises, under
the direction of the TI&E Chief, the
education system in the zone; pre
pares the weekly Troop I&E Bulletin
for troop discussions, and conducts @
course for training in discussion-lead-
ing and educational advisement.

It also conducts United States Armed
Forces Institute (USAFI) courses;
makes scientific researches on soldier

MAY 4, 1948

ii

--- Page 16 ---
attitudes and opinions, and operates
a depot which provides text books for
information and education activities
in the zone.

DUCATION offered consists of
resident instruction, extension
courses, and self-teaching courses. In
each military post an Army Education
Center supervised by a trained civ-
ilian educator has been established.
With an enrollment of approximately
8,000 students, and conducting some
117,000 hours of instruction per month,
these centers offer courses in modern
languages, science, literature, photo-
graphy, art, and many other subjects.
Each soldier within the zone has
an opportunity to attend either an
Army Education Center or to enroll
in USAFI courses, Most of the in-
struction is in off-duty time, although
a few subjects, such as typing and
shorthand, are given during duty
hours.

Three of the Army Education Cen-
ters, at Frankfurt, Nuremberg, and
Munich, offer basic educational train-
ing to raise the standards of those
who have not had the opportunity to
attend school in the United States, to
the equivalent of the fifth grade. In
addition, a training center for Negro
troops at Kitzingen gives two hours
on-duty education training per day
for each individual who has not
completed high school.

USAFI courses for the European
Command are conducted by the
European Branch, USAFI, a part of the
7700 Troop I&E Group. USAFI offers
some 300 high school, technical school,
and first year college level courses
in two forms—self-teaching, and cor-
respondence,

In the self-teaching courses the
student studies without supervision
until he feels he can take an end-of-
course test. Correspondence courses,
on the contrary, require a certain
humber of lessons to be submitted,
graded and corrected prior to the
end-of-the-course test. Upon success-
ful completion of the end-of-course
test in either type course, high
school college credits may be
granted.

Enrollment in USAFI averages ap-
Proximately 15,000 students. The initial

or

MAY 4, 1948

enrollment fee of $2 permits the sol-
dier student to take as many courses
as he may desire. However, he may
study not more than two courses at
any one time.

USAFI acts as a clearing house for
59 American colleges and universities
which offer high school and college
level courses to military personnel.
The advantage is that USAFI pays
for the lessons while the soldier must
pay only for text books and materials.

An additional service offered by
USAFI is the test consisting of such
field examinations which measure
knowledge of high school and college
subjects: General Educational Devel-
opment Tests (GED), to measure a
person's level of education, whether
he has formally taken the course or
acquired the knowledge by ex-
perience; and _ end-of-course tests
which may entitle the student to
school credits in the United States.

USAFI Headquarters in Madison,
Wis., also helps arrange student ac-
creditation with his high school or
college. More than 2,000,000 academic
courses have been graded for work
done in the Army Education program.

The Army Education Centers offer
advice on education and arrange for
tests, for accreditation, and other
matters in which the student may be
interested. They test the student's
level of education to determine what

courses he should take. This service
is free,

Another service provided by USAFI
is the two trailers that travel from
place to place in the zone, offering
over-the-counter USAFI enrollment.
Each trailer has an educational ad-
viser and a complete stock of forms,
textbooks, and materials. A soldier
has only to go to the USAFI trailer,
pay $2, and obtain a complete course
of study.

The Troop I&E Bulletin is the basis
for the weekly one-hour information
discussion required of all troops in
the zone. The objective of this bulle-
tin is to give factual information on
current problems. Some of bulletins
which have been published included
two on the Soviet Union, one on de-
mocracy, and two on communism.

ULLETINS are also prepared for

orientation of newly-arrived
troops, to give them a_ thorough
understanding of their missions in
Germany; the pitfalls; how they are
expected to conduct themvelves, and
a history of Germany and the German
people, Material also is prepared for .
the orientation of dependents.

The Attitude Research Section con-
ducts many surveys to determine the
feeling of enlisted men and officers
toward current problems. These stud-
ies are used by staff sections and

Editorial offices and production department of The Stars and Stripes

are housed in this building in Pfungstadt, Germany.

THE stag

j Peabo na cw

(S & S photo)

(D STRIPES

Bons

--- Page 17 ---
commanders as a basis for planning,
or for corrective action.

The Troop I&E Staff School trains
about 75 discussion leaders every two
weeks,

O PROVIDE daily objective news

to the command, The Stars and
Stripes is published at Pfungstadt,
about 20 miles south of Frankfurt. The
Stars and Stripes not only publishes a
daily paper and distributes it in Ger-
many, Austria, Trieste, Greece, and
Saudi Arabia, but also operates news
stands throughout the zone, These sell
some 80 current national periodicals.
The Stars and Stripes provides in many
places a delivery service for its news-
paper, as well as for WEEKEND, and
the European Edition of the New York
Herald Tribune.

Since the beginning of its career in
London on Aug. 18, 1942, The Stars
and Stripes has gone through a num-
ber of transitions, and has appeared
in a variety of forms, including a
single mimeographed sheet turned
out on the battlefields of Normandy,
and a three-language daily printed
not only for American troops but also
for the besieged French and German-
speaking populations of Strasbourg
during some of the darkest days of
the war.

The paper began as a weekly put
together in the plant of a London job
publishing house, It moved later to
the Printing House Square offices of
The Times of London. This edition,
and the first Mediterranean edition,
which appeared in November, 1942,
as a weekly printed in a dirty shop
on the edge of the Casbah in Algiers,
spawned the editions of Stripes that
kept soldiers informed of the march
of world events throughout the war,
and during the occupation.

The continental phases of The
Stars and Stripes began with a 5,000-
copy mimeographed issue turned out
a fortnight after D-day in the little
Norman village of Ste. Marie du
Mont. The next issue came out at
Ste. Marie Eglise. The staff had no
sooner got out its first few issues than
Cherbourg was liberated. The first
big continental edition was printed
there, starting on July 4, 1944, with a
press run of 100,000.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Troops line up as they wait their turn to enter the mobile United
States Armed Forces Institute (USAFI) trailer truck.

HE SECOND edition was turned
out by the Journal de l'Ouest, at
Rennes, printing 200,000 copies daily
from Aug. 21 to Sept. 20, suspending
publication two weeks after the Paris
edition began printing in the plant of
the New York Herald Tribune's Euro-
pean Edition. The Paris edition spawn-
ed numerous subsidiaries as the
front moved farther and farther away.
But throughout the war, Paris remain-
ed the home base. From its first run
of 20,000 copies, the Paris edition ex-
panded until it was printing 800,000
daily at the war's peak.

Meanwhile, the Mediterranean edi-
tion had moved up through Naples
and Rome into France, where editions
were established at Nice, Marseilles,
Grenoble and Dijon. Then the two
editions were combined for continen-
tal operations, with the Paris edition
over-all, serving as a clearing center
through its teletype system, for news
from all fronts.

The original Germany edition was
established in April, 1945, in Pfung-
stadt, in the emergency plant of the
Frankfurter Zeitung. Early in May,
1945, a second Germany edition was
established at Altdorf, near Nurem-
berg. In the spring of 1946, the
Pfungstadt edition was abolished, and

14

(Signal Corps photo)

only the Altdorf edition continued to
publish.

At the same time The Stars and
Stripes began its transformation from
a GI newspaper to a self-supporting,
largely civilian operation. Then, on
Dec, 5, 1946, the paper moved from
Altdorf to Pfungstadt.

Today's Stripes is a professionally-
produced 12-page daily with a 16-page
Sunday edition, and its affiliate, the
24-page weekly magazine, WEEKEND, ~

The Stripes sets itself the goal of
presenting a balanced cross section
of the news of the world, meeting all”
the diversified interests of occupation”
personnel, from sports to the intri-
cacies of current world political and
economic developments.

To accomplish this, Stripes employs
a professional staff of newspapermen
in the actual handling of the news in
Pfungstadt, and maintains bureaus
Berlin, Frankfurt, Wiesbaden, Munich,
Stuttgart, Vienna, Trieste, and Paris.
The New York bureau relays to Pfung-
stadt, via Signal Corps teletype, ne
supplementary to the services pro-
vided by the Associated Press, United
Press, and International News Servi

Stripes maintains its own. photo-
graphic staff, and, in addition, obtal

MAY 4, 198

--- Page 18 ---
photographs from Acme and Inter-
national News Photographs for world
photo coverage,

Army teletype facilities link PIO
offices throughout the command with
Stripes, making available information
of more local interest.

WEEKEND has evolved from a long
string of supplements to The Stars
and Stripes until today it stands alone
as a weekly magazine dealing with
feature articles of special interest to
occupation personnel.

NE OF THE most important infor-
mation agencies operated by the
Troop Information and Education Serv-
ice is the American Forces Network.

"This is AFN——serving American
Forces in Europe;"

That “station-break," announced
every half hour, sums up the purpose
of the American Forces Network.
Since its inception in July 1942,
AFN's mission has been to provide
information, education, and entertain-
ment for US forces serving in Europe.
Although these "forces" now include
civilians and servicemen, and depend-
ents of both groups, AFN’s three-
point purpose remains the same.

The physical set-up of AFN con-
sists of four studio installations and
eight transmitters. Studios and trans-
mitters are situated at Frankfurt,
Munich, Bremen, and Berlin. Addition-
al transmitters are at Stuttgart, Bay-
reuth, Bremerhaven, and AFN's short-
wave transmitters at Ismanning, near
Munich,

To accomplish its mission, AFN
maintains a staff of some six officers,
one warrant officer, 101 enlisted men,
31 American civilians, eight Allied
civilians, and. .150 indigenous per-
sonnel, Headquarters AFN in Frank-
furt serves as key station, relaying all
transcribed programs for direct dissem-
ination by local stations, as well as
administrative center for all AFN in-
Stallations. Also, all program plan-
ning for AFN is accomplished at
AFN-Frankfurt.

As a result, most of the AFN per-
sonnel is stationed in Frankfurt, with
Outlying stations and transmitters
maintaining only sufficient strength
to operate in the local area.

MAY 4, 1948

HAT IS BROADCAST over AFN

from 0600 to 2400 every day?
Approximately 50 hours of every week
is filled with transcriptions of pro-
grams formerly broadcast in the Unit-
ed States. These discs are furnished
by the Armed Forces Radio Service,
of which AFN is a part.

To the listener that means he can
tune in and get Bob Hope's show, go
up Allen's Alley with Fred Allen, join
Bing Crosby in the Music Hall, sit
around the Chicago Round Table,
cheer his favorite in the Army-Navy
game, or hear President Truman ad-
dress Congress. The best in Stateside
entertainment, information, and edu-

A soldier-student steps down from a
USAFI trailer after obtaining a com-.

plete course of study. (TI & E photo)
cation is shipped to AFN to carry out
its triple purpose.

The remaining 76 hours of every
broadcast week are filled in by studio
productions, originating in any one of
AFN's four studios. On the entertain-
ment side, this might include disc
shows, broadcasts or orchestras from
GI Clubs, and dramatic presentations.

Informationally, it might include
"GI Bull Session,” a dramatized ver-
sion of the TI&E Bulletin; interviews
with personalities in the occupation,
or local bulletin boards filled with
timely announcements of local in-
terest.

And from the education standpoint,
such programs as “Epic of America,”
"The American Story, and ‘The
American Radio Theater” are carried
over AEN. -

15

Surveys have been made of listener
groups to ascertain listener prefer-
ences. On the basis of these surveys
and after careful discussion of the
programming phase of AFN, these
percentages of time have been allot-
ted to each type of program:

Popular Music 43.0
Comedy 75
Variety 7.5
Information & Education 11.6
Classical Music 10.0
News (all types) 7.0
Western Music 5.0
Sports & Special Events 4.0
Drama 2.7
Religion 1;7

Incidental to its mission concerning
Americans in Europe, AFN recently
obtained some figures on European
listenership. A series of spot announce-
ments were transmitted via medium-
wave and short-wave facilities in mid-
November, inviting all listeners to
give details of reception.

More than 1,600 letters were recéiv-
ed from listeners in 31 countries, from
the British Isles, to Greece, Egypt, the
Azores, Turkey, Australia, North
Africa, Norway, Sweden, Finland;
Italy, Spain, Hungary and numerous
ships in the Atlantic.

These letters, without exception,
praised AFN for having introduced
and maintained American standards
of radio entertainment and dissemi-
nation of information.

N LINE with AFN’s mission, local

programs from each station, and
network programs produced by AFN
personnel play a part.

The local bulletin boards, for
example, each day give five to 15 min-
utes (varying with the station) to
events and items of interest to resi-
dents of the community. These include
announcements such as the shutting
off of electricity at certain hours, and
of amusements.

“Men of Munich" is a program
which introduces local men and women
with interesting jobs in the occupa-
tion. Every Sunday there is a half-
hour of entertainment for children of
occupation personnel, starting with
Uncle Don reading the funnies and
closing with the Singing Lady.

“Occupation Report’ on the last
Friday of every month is a detailed

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 19 ---
monthly report from the Military
Goverment state directors concerning
the occupation. “Special Assignment”
gets the facts on current stories in
the US Zone,

AFN also takes a leading part in
campaigns such as the March of
Dimes, for the National Foundation
for Infantile Paralysis. AFN collected
more than 3,000 used Christmas cards,
which are being used to teach English
and art in German youth activities.

Strictly as a service, all stations
carry advice for dog owners on a new
program called “Going to the Dogs.”
Another Service is a lost-and-found
column of the air on every station.

The Blue Danube Network, operated
by US Forces in Austria, provides the
same type of radio service as AFN.
With stations at Vienna, Linz, and
Salzburg, it covers the entire US Zone
of Austria.

Improper Leases Revealed

Upon discovery that certain semi-
official organizations have been leas-
ing property for their use directly
from the Germans, Military Govern-
ment has instructed its field Property
Control Officers that this practice is
not in accordance with Military
Government procedure.

No official or semi-official organi-
zation operating in the occupied
areas of Europe may lease directly
from German civilians, companies, or
firms. All such contracts must be
made through the proper Real Estate
Officers of the US. Army in the area
concerned.

Present leases made outside the
proper channels will be voided, and
the property necessary for the func-
tioning of the organizations will be
requisitioned by the Army and
reassigned to the interested organi-
zations,

Military Government Report No, 31

Needy Students Selected

The Universities of Munich, Er-
langen, and Wuerzburg are selecting
names of needy, worthy law students
eligible for 30 scholarships recently
set up in these schools by the Legal
Division, Office of Military Govern-
ment for Bavaria,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Revised Postal Books Authorized

In accordance with a quadripartite
decision in January, 1948, revised
postal publications are authorized,
containing Universal Postal Union
regulations necessary for the ad-
ministration and operation of inter-
national postal service for Germany.

These publications will be prepared
in German and French (the latter
being the official language of the
Universal Postal Union). It has been
agreed that the Post, Telephene, and
Telegraph Section of the Magistrat of
the City of Berlin will prepare pre-
liminary drafts for submission to the
Allied Communications and Posts
Committee of the Allied Control
Authority, for approval.

All books will be printed by the
State Printing Office (Staatsdruckerei)
in Berlin, and expenses involved will
be divided among the zonal postal
administrations in proportion to the
number of copies ordered.

Five separate books will be pre-
pared as a result of this decision. The
Universal Postal Handbook (Weltpost-
handbuch) will contain general serv-
ice regulations for all international
postal services between all the
countries of the world.

The Postal Book-Letter (Briefpost-
buch) will consist of detailed informa-
tion on letter mail services authorized
in the international postal service,
specifying classes of letter mail,
permissible weights, sizes and content,
and rates.

The Postal Book-Parcel Post (Paket-
postbuch) will consist of complete
regulations for the international
parcel post service covering rates,
content, size and weight limitations,
routings, and items prohibited by the
various countries of the world.

In addition, a table (Table CP-1)
will be prepared containing data as
to rates, transit fees, routes of trans-
mission, and lists of intermediate
countries and maritime services in-
volved between Germany and all
other countries.

Reichspost officials will also compile
a revision of the Customs Regulation
Book (Zollhandbuch), which will in-
clude rules and regulations governing
all categories of postal matter trans-
mitted via international postal
channels between Germany and
foreign nations.

Military Government Report No. 31

(Continued from page 7)
Courts in Germany

resist the tide or to step aside and
watch it pass.

Few judges or Justice Ministry
officials were members of the Party
before 1933. Many anti-Nazis resigned
or were ousted immediately after
Hitler came to power. Early in 1933,
for example, it was estimated that all
non-Aryan judges had been removed,
and the following year Hans Frank
declared: “It is unbearable to us to
permit Jews to play any role what-
soever in the German administration
of justice.” This meant, in effect, that
non-Aryan lawyers were henceforth
barred from practice in the courts.
The ranks were doubtless filled with
others more sympathetic to National
Socialist ideals and aspirations.

But many remained from the Wei-
mar regime. It has already been point-

16

ed out that their training and back-
ground may not have equipped them
for resistance to innovations. which,
however vicious, masqueraded under
the proper statutory cloak. Many may
in all sincerity have failed to see the
way the wind was blowing in 1933,
and others, more perceptive, may
have thought that by working behind
the scenes they could meliorate a
distressing situation. The disillusion-
ment of these latter as events unfolded
must have been utter and complete.
Upon the surrender in 1945 the
Allies—and anti-Nazi Germans—were
confronted with two- problems of
utmost urgency and importance: what
to do with those who had made them-
selves.a part of the Nazi system: of
justice, and how to revamp the law
and its judicial application so as to
make any recurrence of the debacle
impossible.

MAY 4, 1948

--- Page 20 ---
Trustees Appointed
For 43 Farben Units

The far-flung I.G. Farbenindustrie
is slowly being decentralized, and the
units are being placed under sepa-
rate management when they are re-
tained as an integral part of the
German economy. In doing this, Mili-
tary Government has been releasing
units designated to be released to
the I.G. Farben Control Office.

The most recent figures show that
of the 50 I.G, Farben units designa-
ted, 43 have trustees appointed for
their management by the I. G. Farben
Control Office and that, of this num-
ber, 30 have been actually released
by Property Control to the I. G, Far-
ben Control authorities.

Hesse state was the richest area in
the I.G, Farben kingdom with 23
units.

Seven units remain for which I. G.
Farben Control Office must appoint
trustees and 13 units yet to be re-
leased from Property Control. These
figures apply only to the 50 plants
so far designated for release to the
I, G. Farben Control authorities. —
Military Government Report No. 31.

ERP—and Germany’s Opportunity

Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, the US
Deputy Military Governor, spoke at
the reopening of the enlarged Wuert-
temberg-Baden export exhibition in
Stuttgart.

He said that the Bizonal Area's ex-
port-import program gives Germany
jis first chance to show that the
German people are ready to accept
their responsibilities under the Mar-
shall Plan, and to meet their obliga-
tions among the free nations of the
world, His speech in part follows:

IHE GREATEST hope for the peace

of the world today lies in the
spirit which has impelled countries of
different languages, traditions, and
economic usage to join together as
neighbors and friends for mutual
recovery.

Less than two weeks ago the US
Congress voted a loan of over
$6,000,000,000 for assistance to war-
ravished nations throughout the
world, The European Recovery Pro-
gram is unique in the history of the
world.

The only “restriction” on the ERP
money is that it is to be used for

A package containing streptomycin reaches Berlin by air for the treat-
ment of a four-year-old German girl, Gunda Berkmann, critically ill with
tubercular meningitis. Col. Fred Crimmons (left) deputy chief of Temple-
hof Air Base, piloted the special C-47 flight. Shaking hands are Capt.
Samuel Fagge, medical officer from Frankfurt, and Dr. Eugene Schwarz,
acting chief of the Public Health Branch, Office of Military Government
for Berlin Sector. The streptomycin was donated by the Women's

Auxiliary of the US Rhine-Main Air Base.

MAY 4, 1948

(Signal Corps)

17

food, machinery, and raw materials
essential for the recovery of the re-
cipient nations,

A fundamental prerequisite of par-
ticipation in the European Recovery
Program as stated in Secretary of
State Marshall's first enunciation of
the plan 10 months ago was that each
nation included should take every
step within its power necessary for
a revival of its economy. The nations
concerned have been doing just that
and have chopped away at trade bar-
tiers that have obstructed European
trade throughout history.

The bizonal export-import program
is Germany's first chance to show the
rest of the world that the German
people are ready to accept their re-
sponsibility under the Marshall Plan
and to meet their obligations among
the free nations of the world. Nine-
teen forty eight should be a year of
greatly increased exports and surging
recovery everywhere in the western
zones of Germany.

This plan is more than simply a
design for economic recovery. By
eliminating old trade barriers and by
substituting cooperation for economic
conflict, it is helping to construct the
foundation for a peaceful world.

The inclusion of Germany in this
plan must indeed be encouraging to
those who have been confronted with
the problems of food, clothing and
shelter in this state,

T MEANS more than just a great
step forward towards this country’s
economic betterment. The willingness
of countries which have just con-
cluded a war with Germany now to
include her in this program is a mile-
post on the road to friendship and
peaceful cooperation as well.

The very spirit of this plan is that
of self-help, friendship and coopera-
tion. The door was and is open to
those who do not seek self-aggran-
dizement, who truly wish to build a
new and peaceful Europe, who wish
to erase the wounds of history, who
really seek the greatest good for plain
people.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Aid to School System Urged

_ At a.conference of all American
teachers in the US Zone held at the
Chiemsee Rasthaus in Munich, Gov.
Murray D. van Wagoner, director,
Office of Military Government for
Bavaria, urged them to help make the
German school system more de-
mocratic through discussion groups
and personal contact with German
teachers,

Governor van Wagoner contrasted
American methods of education, in
which development of individual per-
sonalities is stressed, with the rigid
“Fuehrer prinzip"” regimentation me-
thods emphasized in Germany.

“Military Government has _ been
very concerned about the German
education system from the beginning
of the occupation,” the Governor told
his audience. “We gave the Germans
ample time to rectify it themselves.
Very little progress was made, There-
fore during the past year we have
set down definite requirements for
their compliance in reforming the
school system.

“During the past few months in
Bavaria I have been amazed at the
type of educational system which still
exists here, the Governor continued.
“The elementary and _ secondary
schools are built on a two-track sy-
stem. Children at the age of 10 are
separated. Those of wealthy families
and presumed exceptional ability go
on to what is called the gymnasium,
which prepares them for college. The
children of farmers and poorer families
and those with less ability are sent
to vocational and part-time schools
for trade training.

“No cognizance is taken of the fact
that 10 years of age is much too soon
to determine what a child's ability and
future should be. Only eight percent
of the ‘youth attend the gymnasium
and 92. percent receive only voca-
tional training and go into apprentice-
ship.”

Lack of free text books, absence of
courses in civics and social sciences,
and insufficient education for teachers
in lower grades were among the other
evils of the present system pointed
out by the director.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Governor van Wagoner said that as
one enters a German schoolroom,
“Here is what you will find in most
instances. The children will jump to
attention, stiff as little soldiers. There
will be no smiles, no giggles, not a
whisper. At a command from the
schoolmaster they will sit down.

“Throughout the lessons this at-
mosphere of strict discipline will be
maintained. I would a thousand times
rather see American children with
their spit-balls, their note-passing and
whispering. At least they are develop-
ing as individuals.”

The Governor recommended that
frequent personal contacts be de-
veloped between American and Ger-
man teachers:

Monuments Repaired

The German authorities are pro-
gressing slowly on the repair of war-
damaged cultural monuments.

Romanesque work of exceptional

importance was discovered during the

restoration of a church in Johannis-
berg Castle (Hesse).

Repairs also are being made at the
Palace in Darmstadt (Hesse), part of
which collapsed in October, 1947,
causing serious damage to the vault
in which the state archives are stored.

The archive material itself was
slightly affected and is being success-
fully reclaimed. — Military Govern-
ment Report No. 31.

Bipartite Board OK’s
Rise in Steel Price

The Bipartite Board has approved
the German recommendation for an
average price increase of RM66 per
ton of raw steel, with corresponding
increases on other qualities and roll-
ing mill products. The Bizonal Exec-
utive Committee has been instructed
to give effect to this increase as from
April 1, 1948.

No subsidy is to be paid during the
second quarter on steel production.
In approving the increase the Bi-
partite Board has taken into account
the effect on the cost of steel of the
coal price increase and of the intro-
duction of a 30-cent conversion factor
for imported ore, as well as the prob-
able scale of operations during the
second quarter of 1948,

Steel and pig iron production in
the Bizonal Area in March hit a new
post-war high, the Bipartite Commerce
and Industry Group has announced.

Steel ingot output reached 343,325
tons, equal to a 4,000,000-ton annual
rate, or 31,569 tons more than the
previous peak established in October
1947. Pig iron production reached
297,597 tons, jumping 45,326 tons over
the high set in December 1947.

Training School Formed
The first post-war training school
for workers of a private voluntary
welfare organization, the Catholic
Caritas-Verband, is being established

_with the authorization of US Military

Government, Public Welfare Officials
of OMG-Berlin Sector revealed.

Bavaria Receives Hitler’s House

Title to Hitler's “Braunes Haus” and
the former administrative building of
the Nazi. Party has been transferred
to the Bavarian government in the
first turnover of Nazi property.

The transfer ceremony was wit-
nessed by Minister President Hans
Ehard and Murray D. van Wagoner,
director the Office of Military Go-
vernment for Bavaria. Return of the
property was carried out according to
Control Council Directive No. 50 pro-

18

viding for transfer of former Nazi
Party property to the previous owners,
or to governments of the different
German states.

Under property control in Bavaria
are 2,191 properties, valued at ap-
proximately RM 200,000,000, which
had been used by the Nazis. Transfer
applications have been submitted for
1,100. The properties are slated for
economic, social or cultural uses.—
ICD News of Germany.

MAY 4, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
{Continued from page 2)
Occupational Activities

was also completed in 89 of the 105
Category I war plants and in all but
three of the 13 industrial plants
available for reparations under the
“advance delivery" program.

The third shipload of special food-
stuffs which are being imported to
provide a more varied and balanced
diet for the Bizonal Area consumer
has arrived in Bremen aboard the
Granville S. Hall. It consisted of
4,554 tons of prunes and 4,047 tons of
dried peas, part of a total consign-
ment for the Bizonal Area of 115,000
tons of dried prunes and raisins from
California. An initial shipment of
8,000 tons arrived on March 18, and a
second shipment of 4,754 tons on
March 21,

The Joint Export-Import Agency has
announced the purchase of approxi-
mately $6,500,000 worth of hides and
skins for the manufacture of shoes for
the German population in the Bizonal
Area. The 25,000 raw tons of hides
and skins purchased during the first
three months of 1948 will produce an
estimated 12,000,000 pairs of shoes and
will enable Bizonal Area tanners to
operate their plants at near capacity.

German shipping companies are to
be permitted a limited resumption of
foreign trade, Officials of the Bipartite
Transport Control Group said new
regulations provide that once all Ger-
man internal commitments have been
met, German shipping firms may
undertake the management and char-
tering of their own vessels in con-
junction with their chosen foreign
agents, under supervision of the
Maritime Ports and Shipping Branch
of the Group.

US Zone

On April 8, Bavarian border police
and customs authorities began travel
Control operations at the Munich air-
port. The control is restricted to per-
Sons subject to German police juris-
diction and travelling on the one com-
mercial airline authorized to operate
at the airport.

A total of 185,000 metric tons of
Ruhr coal has been programmed for
Movement by rail to Regensburg (Ba-
varia) and by barge from Regensburg

May 4, 1948

to Linz, Austria, during the 13-week
period which began March 29.

Local rains in the Rhine Basin
during the latter part of March result-
ed in a rise of approximately one
meter in the level at the Kaub (Hesse)
gauge, permitting a resumption of
maximum loadings on coal barges.
The level of 1,95 meters at the Kaub
gauge on April 7 continued to permit
100 percent loadings.

During the latter half of March, 64
cultural items, consisting of modern
paintings and antique furniture, were
shipped to the Netherlands. In the
same period 87 units of cultural ma-
terial, presumably restitutable, were
taken into US custody for determi-
nation of ownership.

Material for the press exhibition
scheduled to open in Munich on May 5
has been arriving from the United
States. It includes original copies of

early American newspapers, motion.

pictures, and other documents making
up a complete history of the US press.

A liaison representative of the Inter-
national Council of Christians and
Jews, which is located in Geneva,
arrived in the US Zone to assist in
the development of local inter-group
councils.

An April 1 the UNRRA cards for-
merly used as official identity docu-

ments for displaced persons became
invalid. Only holders of new identity
cards are now authorized to live in
assembly centers.

The Third Congress of Liberated
Jews was held at Bad Reichenhall at
the end of March. This assembly con
sists of 250 representatives of Jewish
displaced persons-in the US ‘Zone
who elect the Central Committee of
Liberated Jews, the recognized repre-
sentative group of Jewish displaced
persons in the Zone. "

French Zone

By decision of French Military Gov-
ernment, the State Central Banks of
the French Zone became members on
April 1 of the Bank Deutscher Laender,
This step is considered significant in
the establishment of closer working
relations between the French and the
combined US and British Zones,

Wuerttemberg-Baden

The Ministry of Education agreed
to the permanent appointment of ex-
pellee teachers, if they were politi-
cally reliable and up to specified
standards in training and achievement.

Military Government education offi-
cials have distributed 325 packages,
containing clothing, school ‘supplies,
food and books, to Wuerttemberg-

Workmen in a Frankfurt foundry prepare a mold for the casting of the
Dove of Peace, which will be erected at the Rhine-Main Airport. The
symbolic figure was made by Grete Fendel, Frankfurt sculptress, In its

final form it will be ringed by two airplane models.

19

(DENA-Bild)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Baden schools as_ donations from
schools in the United States.

The typhoid epidemic at Eislingen,
first reported on March 12, reached
a total of 232 cases and 13 deaths as
of April 7. Control of the epidemic
has been unsatisfactory because the
main filtration gallery of the water
supply system needs repairs requiring
several months. Institution of chlori-
nation has been hampered by
unavailability of proper apparatus.
Efforts are being made to obtain
chlorination equipment from Hamburg.

Hesse

The rapidly developing outbreak of
upper respiratory disease, first report-
ed on March 18 in three districts in
Western Hesse near Limburg has
reached a total of over 4,000 cases of
“grippe” reported in Hesse. Clinical
and laboratory studies have failed
to identify the infection as influenza
A or B. Clinically most cases resem-
ble a mild typical form of pneumonia.

Military Government has approved
the release of funds for two reorient-
ation-fund projects. The first is a
grant-in-aid to match the funds pro-
vided by districts (Kreise) to employ
10 full-time professional youth leaders.
The second project is a_ training
school for youth leaders.

Tax revenues for Hesse were in-
creased in January by more than RM
27,000,000, according to Don Spigler,
OMGH finance chief. The increases,
he said, resulted mainly from property
and motor vehicle taxes.

OMmMGUS

Arrangements have been complet-
ed under which persons living in
United Nations or neutral countries
may use Reichsmark funds they have
on deposit in the US Zone to make
limited payments to near relatives
in the United States or the US Zones,
OMGUS has announced. The amounts
are limited to RM 100 each month to
any one relative, or RM 300 to all
relatives.

Berlin Sector
US Military Government has author-
ized two institutions for the blind,
the Blindenhilfswerk and the Allge-
meine Blindenverein, to carry on non-
political welfare activities in the US
Sector of Berlin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Seven hundred fifty long tons of
heavy structural steel have been
released to the Germany economy by
US Army engineers from stocks of
captured enemy material in Berlin.
The steel will be used in the US and
British Sectors for priority construc-
tions projects, including buildings,
bridges, and public utilities.

More than 35,000 articles of excess
US Army clothing, valued at ap-
proximately RM 500,000, have been
distributed in the US and British
Sectors of Berlin through STEG, a
Military Government-sponsored Ger-
man corporation, since the beginning
of STEG shipments last November.
The items include 11,108 wool blan-
kets, 5,394 overcoats, 2,740 coats, 146
work suits, 456 field jackets, 426
shirts, 1,506 drawers, 3,189 pairs of
cotton gloves, 2,920 pairs of leggings.
1,438 cloth helmets, 733 work caps,

256 ties, and 7,764 pairs of work
shoes.
Repairs totalling RM 15,000,000

were made on property held in
custody by US Military Government
in the US Sector during the two-
year period Jan. 1, 1946, to Jan. 1,
1948. The repairs included the recon-
struction of 3,410 living rooms, pro-
viding additional quarters for 4,108
Berliners.

The first audio-visual aids were
demonstrated to teachers at the
Textbook and Curriculum Center. A
magnetophone (a play-back voice rec-
order) was shown as part of the
current in service teacher training
program. Films depicting life in Texas,

Canada, New England, and Washing-
ton, D.C., also were shown to 400
educaters.

Bavaria

Climaxing a six-day trial which
involved one of the largest illegal
slaughtering rings ever uncovered in
Bavaria, the Military Government
Intermediate Court at Altoetting
handed out 39 convictions. Sentences
imposed on meat dealers and farmers,
convicted of selling their cattle for
illegal slaughtering, ranged from 90
days to three years.

The Civil Administration Division,
Office of Military Government for
Bavaria, has absolved the ‘Verband
der Koerperbehinderten” (Association
of Disabled) of accusations of non-
compliance with MG _ regulations.
Charges, including those that the or-
ganization fostered Nazi and milita-
ristic tendencies, were termed complet-
ely unfounded,

EUCOM

A EUCOM report on applications
from Americans for marriage to Ger-
man nationals shows that 3,147 out of
4,894 applications were approved since
the ban on such marriages was lifted
15 months ago.

Dutdchinationals employed by EUCOM
are now paid the full amount of their
salaries at their place of employment,
Headquarters, European Command,
has announced. Formerly, Dutch em-
Ployees allotted one-half of their
salary to dependents or other desig-
nated residents in the Netherlands.

Bosch Is Ordered to Decentralize

Decartelization authorities of the
US and British Military Government
have served upon Robert Bosch,
GmbH, huge electrical equipment
combine, an order to decentralize the
organization, which was termed “an
excessive concentration of economic
power.”

The firm was ordered to effect the
severance of all ties of ownership,
control and management between
Bosch and its plants or facilities with
the exceptions of certain plants at
Stuttgart and Giengen, and such sales
outlets as are necessary for the

20

distribution of goods produced at
these plants.

The firm is required to file with
the German decartelization agency
for Wuerttemberg-Baden within 96
days a plan for executing the meas-
ures.

The MG directive, an OMGUS
spokesman explained, was aimed to
prevent excessive concentration of
economic powers and monopolistic
tendencies, He said the question of
the future establisment of the Bosch
works was not yet settled. — ICD
News of Germany.

MAY 4, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“c- GERMAN PRES

Frankfurter Neue Presse called the
enactment of the Marshall Plan a
great historic deed:

“If the European nations resolutely
and wisely take advantage of the
opportunity offered, they now have
the elements necessary for serious
and durable reconstruction, not only
economic, political and social, but
also spiritual and psychological.
Western Europe has the chance to
build a cooperative structure in its
own as well as in the world’s in-
terest."

Schwaebische Donau-Zeitung (Ulm)
warned that ERP is merely a start,
not the final solution, of the problem
of Germany and Europe:

“The amount authorized by Con-
gress will not suffice to put Europe
on its feet again, But before expend-
ing further sums, Congress wants
to see how we react to the blood
transfusion. It is a mistake to expect
wonders from the Marshall Plan; it is
nothing but a blood transfusion ...
that will revise us and enable us to
redouble our own efforts.”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
6aid:

“After Lend-Lease, the Marshall
Plan represents the second great

economic aid program with political
implications, originating in the Uni-
ted States but enveloping in fact the
whole world. Many people still re-
gard the Plan as a temporary expe-
dient, based on the desire of secur-
ing an export market for a later
date, There is certainly some truth in
such speculations, but these reasons
Pale beside the fact that the United
States for the first time is inaugu-
Tating a world-power policy in strik-
ing contrast to its (isolationism)
tradition ..."

Frankfurter Rundschau _ welcomed
the Marshall Plan as the only possi-
bility for European rehabilitation,
but said it would postpone German
unity indefinitely:

MAY 4, 1948

ERP Called Great Historic Deed

The drivel about ‘American mono-
poly capitalism’ cannot fool us ...
The destruction of the European econ-
omy is so great that one must be
blind not to realize the absolute ne-
cessity for this foreign aid. It would
be most unreasonable to wait for
a miracle to happen in Germany,
without foreign help. It would pro-
bably end in another regime of
force ... backed by the same mass
elements that supported Hitler ...
Will ERP attract the East Zone into
the framework of Germany unity?
We doubt it, but the door remains
open.”

Gain in Prestige

Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Regens-
burg) said the East-West dispute in
Berlin over Soviet-imposed travel
restrictions has resulted in a gain in
prestige for the United States:

“The West has won a victory ...
Its effect will be felt not only in
Berlin and West Germany but will
also extend to the East Zone ...
There is no likelihood of the
Western. Powers withdrawing from
Berlin ... Not only has the Russian
plan to draw Berlin behind the Iron
Curtain collapsed for at least the
time being ... but the Russian aim
to draw attention away from the
enormous impression made by Pres-
ident Truman's signing of ERP has
also failed.”

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
authentic translations of editorials
and reports in the German press.
The publishing of these trans-
lations is intented to inform the
readers among the occupational
forces of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not nec-
essarily to give any concurrence
to their views and opinions.

21

kirchen) said that experiences under
the Nazis make it. difficult to fool
the Germans:

“We are not impressed by the SED
press when it welcomes the erection
of barriers in the middle of Berlin
and demands German unity in the
same breath, We can differentiate
between the Soviet press when it
completely suppresses President Tru-
man’s speech, and the American
newspapers which print the state-
ments of Russian statesmen word for
word. We shudder when we hear
that in Prague, listening to foreign
broadcasts is again punishable by
imprisonment. We aren't surprised
to hear that the US Government is
forced to protest against Russian
radio-jamming tactics. We have seen
all that before.”

German Federalism

Marburger Presse advocated Ger-
man federalism and called for action
toward this aim:

“Western Germany must soon
decide whether its people are prepar-
ed to be political realists, or whether
they will exhaust themselves in the
fruitless hope that the borders be-
tween eastern and western Germany
will be soon removed ... If federali-
zation is the salvation of Europe as
against Russian expansion, then the
same applies to Germany, too ,..
Either she will become democratic,
federalistic and European-minded, or
Germany and Europe with it will
sooner or later fall a victim to bol-
shevism."

Calls for Treaty

Friedrich Stampfer said in the
Offenbach Post that a politically and
economically consolidated Europe,
under prudent leadership, could force
bolshevism to retreat. First, however,
he said, Germany must be given a
peace treaty and self-determination:

“With the creeping cancer of mili-
tary dictatorships in its system, Eu-

INFORMATION: BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
rope cannot win the fight against
another ‘dictatorial system.

“To make Europe immune against
the bolshevist infection, a politically
as well as economically free Germany
is required ... If the Western Powers
would reestablish peace in Germany;
give its people a voice in its affairs,
and proclaim equal freedom for all,
including those behind the Iron
Curtain, they would deal a deadly
blow to Communist propaganda and
the whole Western satellite system.”

‘War’ Speculation

Walter Sassnick, who _ recently
visited Switzerland, wrote in the
Nuremberger Nachrichten:

“The seriousness of the political
situation is being recognized abroad,
too, but nowhere is there so much
talk about the probability of war as
in Germany. ... He who uses the
word ‘war’ in these days, as a
dangerous phrase of speculation and
propaganda, is a criminal because
coldly, deliberately, he wants our and
Europe's destruction. Viciously, he
plays with the fate of millions, Cyni-
cally and without a heart, he calcu-
lates on the death of mothers and
children. We ought to have enough
experience to be absolute haters of
war, ... He who wants war is just
as hateful as war itself.”

Warns Germans

Niederbayerische Nachrichten (Strau-
bing) warned the Germans against
trying to play both sides against the
middle:

“International developments lead
many Germans to again overestimate
the importance of their country...
Germany is not the center of European
hopes . .. America’s policy with re-
gard to western Germany will be
best understood if it is borne in
mind that its object is to prevent the
‘crumbling away’ of more nations...
and to build a dam as far east as
possible . . . It would be a very great
mistake to think of Germany in the
role of a blushing bride, standing
between suitors from East and West,
waiting to give her hand to the one
making the best offer.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The US Army, in conjunction with the Office of Military Government b.

for Bremen, has turned over to the crowded German postal system the
above building in Bremerhaven. The building had served as an Army

postoffice.

Denazification Hit

Muenchner Merkur said that the
denazification law on the whole was
a failure:

“We ask, now that the purge has
ended, that positive action be taken
on behalf of those who are no longer
to be labelled as ‘Nazis.’ They should
henceforth be regarded more as Ger-
man citizens, not as lesser offenders
or followers. They should have the
same rights as others. The housing
bureaus and other authorities should
no longer be permitted to classify
these people according to their poli-
tical past. In this way the narrow

understructure of our ‘youthful
democracy could be considerably
broadened.”

Wuerttembergisches Zeit Echo

(Schwaebisch Hall) carried a decla-
ration by the chairman of the Spruch-
kammer of Schwaebisch Hall, who
resigned from office in protest against
the latest modification of the denazi-
fication law:

“The public feels that the law has
been softened just when the real
culprits are up for trial ... The con-
sequent ire of the people tums
against the denazification courts. But
the Spruchkammer is only on execu-
tive organ. It has neither caused nor

22

(Signal Corps)

desired the inequality before the law —

that has become a fact ...”

Ehard Criticized

Sueddeutsche Zeitung
continued the efforts of licensed US ©

(Munich)

Zone editors to achieve closer coope- —
ration with German government offi- —

cials, In an editorial headed “The
Reticent Chief of State,’ the Munich
paper pointed out that General Clay
has held 48 press conferences to
which German journalists were invit-—
ed; Minister President Ehard only
two:

“As much as we esteem Dr, Ehard’s ©

restrained and moderate manner, 60°
beneficially different from the porce-

varian politicians, this seems to
not quite the right way of improving
relation between the Governmen
and the public.”

Reger’s report of the friendly, infor
mal press conference he attended 4 ,
the White House in Washington, an
added: 4
“Here we see a Government h 1
sincerely attempting to provide
formation. His General in Germany
does it with the same matter-of-fact
ness. The chief of the Bavarian Gov-

MAY 4, 1948

--- Page 26 ---
ernment ... has up to now prefer-
red to miss the chance to remove
misunderstandings, and to give his
difficult office a little ‘publicity.’”
Muenchner Merkur complained that
the press was excluded from a highly-
important international meeting at
Regensburg, and that Bavarian politi-
cians give only scant and often inac-
curate information to the newspapers:

. . Since yesterday, 60 foreign
and more than 100 German scientists
and politicians have been assembled
in Regensburg. They debate—so
much we can assert from a sparse

announcement—questions of Eu-
ropean federalism, We expect that
the Bavarian representatives there

will develop views and plans that
heretofore have been limited to a
small circle. Our people, we believe,
have a right to know what its leading
government representitives have to
say about this or that question... .”

Bidders Approved

Approval has been received from
OMGUS on the selection of the high-
est qualified German bidders for tive
Wuerttemberg-Baden coal distribut-
ing companies which are part of Ger-
man combines being broken up by
Military Government in accordance
with the Potsdam Agreement,

Eight companies in Stuttgart, for-
merly under the control of such mam-
moth combines as the Hermann Goe-
ring Werke, Stinnes, Flick and Krupp,
were opened to competitive bidding in
December 1947, under OMGUS Order
No. 1, Highest qualified bids were
approved for five of the plants. No
bids received qualified for the three
others,

The following highest qualified bid-
ders for five of the coal properties
were approved: Alfred Schaffrath for
the Franz Baeuerle firm; Wilhelm
Rentschler for the Westermann firm;
Carl Schmidt for the Kohlenkontor,
Erich Thier for the Louis Thier firm,
and Wilhelm Ernst for the Wuert-
tembergisches Kohlengeschaeft,

Holiday Courses Set
Holiday courses at Marburg Uni-
versity for 200 German and 100 foreign
Students will be held from July 24
to Aug. 13.

MAY 4, 1948

Bizonia Halts People’s Congress

The activities of the so-called
People’s Congress (Volkskongress) in
the US and British Zone have been
halted by Military Government order.
This organization was repudiated in
the US Zone by recognized political
parties except the KPD (Communist
Party), although it purported to rep-
resent all parties and sections of the
population— a device which the SED
(Socialist Unity Party) had attempted
to use previously.

Until this prohibition, the promoters
of the People’s Congress sought to
form similar membership organiza-
tions on state level which were to be
affiliated with the central Congress
organization in Berlin.

Before the prohibition of such organ-
izations in th US and British Zones,
a "People's Congress for Unity’ was
held in Bremen for the state of Lower
Saxony (British Zone). On Jan. 17
and 18 the Congress, attended by
approximately 1,000 delegates, was re-
jected by all non-Communist parties.
The bulk of the delegates came from
the KPD or its periphery organiza-
tions.

Among the 59 delegates who claim-
ed other than KPD-SED party mem-
bership, none was well known and
the legitimacy of their claim itself is
doubted in several instances, The pro-
gram resolutions and activities of the
conference followed the pattern of
the Berlin model. — Military Govern-
ment Report No, 31.

Lease Policy Backed

At a meeting held in Rotenburg
(Bavaria) on Jan. 12, representatives
of the US-licensed newspaper publish-
ers indicated their support of the
policy of Military Government to
effect mandatory leases of newspaper
plants if the owners showed un-
willingness to sign voluntary leases,

The meeting resulted in agreement
upon a standard form ofa lease and in
the appointment of a committee to
work out final details for the execu-
tion of mandatory leases for a
minimum period of five years, —
Military Government Report No. 31

Workers unload a cargo of 9,000 tons of raisins and dried vegetables
from the SS George D. Prentice at Bremen. The cargo is part of a
total of 90,000 tons of dried foods earmarked for arrival during the
spring of 1948, for the German economy. The foods will be distributed

through the Joint Export-Import Agency.

23

(Signal Corps)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS .

Circular No. 30, Hq EUCOM, 30 March
1948, Section I—Officer Career Plan-
ning: Section II—Currency Conversion
and Section III]—Photography.

Training Memorandum No. 1, Troops
and Schools, Hq EUCOM, 31 March
1948,

Identification Symbols, AG 311,22
(AG), 1 April 1948. Gives a list of
symbols assigned to EUCOM for the
purpose of identifying cables and
correspondence.

Weekly Directive No. 13, Hg EUCOM,
2 April 1948. Contains the following
sections: Sec. 1—Restriction on Visit-
ing City of Heidelberg, AG 680.3 SGS.
Sec. 11—Use of British Medloc °C”
Train to Hook of Holland by Military
or US Civilian Personnel on Duty
Travel, AG 531 RYT. Gives instructions
to be followed by personnel wishing
to make use of this train. Sec. III—
Deduction for Quarters—First Three
Graders Who -Have Family Allow;
ances, AG 246 FIN. Sec. IV—Procure-
ment of Spare Parts, AG 451.1 GSP.
Gives information for the guidance of
all concerned. Sec. V—Audit of Non-
appropriated Funds, AG 123 FIN.
Gives substitution for Section X,
EUCOM, Weekly Directive No. 12,
26 March 1948. Sec. VI—Report of
Surrender or Apprehension of Ab-
sentees, AG 220.712 AGP. Concerns
the filing of EC Form 19-26 Delin-
quency Report. Sec. VII—Weekly
Check of Particular Entries in Certain
Personnel Records, AG 333 AGX. Sec.
‘Vill—Standardization of Materials
Handling Equipment, AG 400 GSP.
Sec. IX—EUCOM Small Arms Com-
petitions, 1948, AG 353.8 GOT. Gives
information for the guidance of all
concerned regarding the competitions
to be held at Grafenwoehr Training
Center, Grafenwoehr, during the period
7-21 August 1948, Sec. X—AGRC PRO
Station, AG 726.1 MCH. Concerns the
location of the Paris station. Sec. XI—
BAOR Traffic Regulations, AG 010.8
GPA. Gives information for the guid-
ance of all concerned. Sec. XII~
Extended Active Duty, AG 210.3 GPA.
Gives substitution for EUCOM letter
AG 210.3 GPA-AGO, 2 March 1948.
Sec. XIII—Dayroom Equipment and

Furnishings, AG 123 FIN. Sec. XIV—
Change of Mail Address for EUCOM
Chief Signal Officer, AG 311.18 AGO.
The official mail address has been
changed from APO 757 to APO 403.
Sec. XV—Personnel Rosters, AG 330.3
AGO. Gives substitution for Section
XVII, EUCOM, Weekly Directive No. 8,
27 February 1948. Sec. XVI—Change
to TM 14-600, AG 019 AGL. Gives
correction for Section VIII, EUCOM,
Weekly Directive No. 12, 26 March
1948. Sec, XVII—Rental Charges for
the American Express Company, INC,
AGO 230 GSP. Sec. XVIII—Dual Tires
on 2'/2-Ton Trucks, AG 451.92 GSP.
Asks that this practice be discontinued.
Sec. XIX—Ordnance Technical In-
spections, AG 333 ORD. Lists the
units to be inspected. Sec. XX—
Multiple Addressee Command Letters,
AG 312 AGO. EUCOM to conserve
paper is discontinuing listing in-
dividual commanders in multiple
addressee command letters which are
applicable to all major commands.
Sec. XXI—Rescissions, AG 461 AGX.
Sec, XXII—Regulations for Individual
Leave Travel to Italy, AG 200.4 AGP.
Lists the new regulations effective
1 May 1948. Sec. XXIII—Ordnance
Field Maintenance Activities-Produc-
tion Chart, AG 322 ORD.

European Command Equipment Mod-
ification Lists and Tables of Allow-
ances, AG 400.34 .GOT-AGO, .Hq
EUCOM, 3 April 1948.

Circular No. 36, Procedure for Move-
ment. of Household Goods to the Zone
of Interior, OMGUS, 7 April 1948.

Downgrading of Treasury Depart-
ment Publications, AG 380.01 (AG),
OMGUS, 7 April 1948, This list covers
classified documents for 1944.

Downgrading of War Department
Pamphlets, AG 380.01 (AG), OMGUS,
7 April 1948. Lists documents to be
declassified as per Civil Affairs

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters,

Division, Department of the Army
instructions.

Downgrading of War Department
Pamphlets, AG 380.01 (AG), OMGUS,
7 April 1948. Declassification of Coal
Mining Industry material for Europe,
the Balkan States and Japan.

Advance Copy of Change 4 to Title
15, “Manpower,” AG 010 (CO), OM-
GUS, 8 April 1948.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests L 30-1, L 30-3. AG 014.1 (SG),
OMGUS, 8 April 1948. Concerns the
following: L 30-1 Draft Law Amending
the Second Amendment to the 1946
Law Cncerning the Structure of Crim-
inal Courts; L 30-3 Draft Law Con-
cerning Presentation of a Health Cer-
tificate Prior to Contraction of Mar-
riage; D 57-3 Information on Money
and Valuables Taken from German
Prisoners of War and D 57-5 Accept-
ance of German Orphans in England.

Allied. Military Missions, AG 091.112
(SG), OMGUS, 8 April 1948. Gives
substitutions for OMGUS letter
8 February 1948.

Circular No.32, Hq EUCOM, 8 April
1948, Section I—Relief From Unlawful ~
Restraints of Personal Liberty; Section
II—Interference With or Obstruction
of Justice in German Courts or Other
Tribunals by Persons Subject to Mili-
tary Law; Section III—Casualty Re-
porting; Section IV—Rescission and
Section V-Amendment.

Circular No, 34, Overseas Separa-
tion, Hq EUCOM, 10 April 1948.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re
quests Interim 30-1, AG 014.1 (SG),
OMGUS, 10 April 1948. Concerns the
following: INT 30-1 Draft Law Con-
cerning Application of the Denazi-
fication: Law to Returning Prisoners
of War; D 52-3 Comment Concerning
the Future Organization of Central
Credit Institutes and D 57-2 Mailing
of Newspapers to German Prisoners
of War in France.

General Orders No. 14, OMGUS,
13 April 1948, Concerns the appoint-
ment of Mr. Phillips Hawkins, US
Civilian, as Deputy to the Economics
Adviser, OMGUS, in addition to his
other duties.

DEUTSCHER VERLAG