--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE OF US Mititary GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

BAD HOMBURG TOWER

f MAY 18, 1948

: WOMEN’S ORGANIZATIONS

--- Page 3 ---
COORDINATING

US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

COMMANDER - IN - CHIEF

OFFICE OF THE COMMANDER MIN CHIEF, EUROPEAN COMMAND

DIRECTOR OF
POLITICAL SPECIAL SREGIAL CIVILIAN,

QUDGET AND DIRECTOR OF

DIRECTOR OF INSPECTOR

OFFICE OF MILITARY

SSISTANT
To THE

ie

BIPARTITE
CONTROL,

PoulTicaL PuBuic GovernMeNTaL cutturat nen

ANKING

ARMED civie EDUCATION INFORMATION

OFFICE OF 3
SHE euiEe. MiuiTaRY

EASED Ere 1G ES)

omG

ome ‘om

UaISON. AND LIAISON AND LaisON

LIAISON. AND

LIAISON

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

BAD HOMBURG TOWER—Once
one of the leading bath resorts in
Germany, postwar Bad Homburg,
like many other German towns, leads
a tranquil life. Here, the old and the
new blend harmoniously—a tower
hovers over children playing in the
street. (Photo by Mrs, M, C, Wood)

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest
organizations in the United States. The
Information Bulletin is distributed
without charge as a public service.

The editorial staff of the Information
Bulletin is a section of the Reports
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS, Mem-
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid,
editor; Henry S, Matteo, assistant
editor; Val Green Bowman, writer;
Mary Catherine Sullivan, reporter. Its
office is located in the Reports Branch
Building, 20 Saargemuender Strasse,
Berlin-Dahlem. Its mailing address is:
Information Bulletin, Control Office
OMGUS, Berlin, Germany; APO 742,
US Army. Telephone numbers are
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227.

Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source cited
with the article.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION
BULLETIN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 135 May 18, 1948

Occupational Activities lel

German Women's Organizations . .
International Courses Arranged

Labor Leadership:School .). séqiccoe jalan aes
Notice to'US Readers’. 6%. nis.g4 0 Bi

6 German Broadcasters Study in US. . . .
Courts in Germany (Part II). .

Forerunner of Nuremberg

Legislation Review... 2.6% «© ese. 2»
Outlook Promising in Wuerttemberg-Baden . .
Editorial Opinion in German Press .

Bavarians Thanked forHelp. .......
Democracy Needed in Business . _. .
Zone Photos To Be Shownin US. .... .
Quadripartite Rupture in Berlin... ...
Allied Personnel on ACA Bodies. . . . . .
Official Instructions... 5 «© 6+. a 6 FES

on nwnn

10

15
16
20
23
25
26
27
28
29
32

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OMGUS

Hungarian reparation officers, form-
erly accredited to OMGUS, were
requested to leave the US area of
control in Germany as a result of
recent incidents against US Army
escort troops who were moving re-
patriates to Hungary.

Through the efforts of Military
Government, a limited number of
fellowships in the field of govern-
ment have been made available to
German students in American uni-
versities. The fellowships will offer
intensive courses in government and
public administration at the Univer-
sities of Syracuse, Michigan or
Illinois.

Bipartite Agencies

The Economic Council Ordinance
No, 22: was approved by the Bipartite
Board, This provides for operating
funds for the Bizonal Economic Ad-
ministration to June 30, By then the
1948/49 bizonal budget is expected to
be in effect and the revenues due
from the bizonal states decided, The
ordinance limits expenditure by the
administration to the necessary to
fulfill its functions and legal obli-
gations.

The chairmen of the Bipartite Con-
trol Office agreed that the trade
union officials visiting neighboring
countries to determine the avail-
ability of foodstuffs should be limit-
ed to one representing the British
Zone and one the US Zone.

Bizonal Operations

The over-all industrial production
index for the Bizonal Area reached
a postwar high of 48.2 percent dur-
ing March, an increase of 3.5 percent
over the February index. The im-
proved position has resulted from
increased availability of coal, chem-
icals, and raw materials, as well as
more favorable weather,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ACTIVITIES:

An increase in food imports resulted
in the raising of the ration in the
Bizonal Area, The normal consumer
in the states of Hesse and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, the cities of Bremen and
Hamburg, and the special supply area
of the Ruhr was allocated 1,593
calories per day as compared to
1,560 in April. Other states received
relatively less because of their failure
to meet collection and delivery
quotas,

Dried milk was included on the
general ration throughout the Bi-
zonal Area for the first time since
the beginning of the occupation, with
less than one-quarter of a pound a
month authorized for the normal
consumer,

Although the third phase of the
miners’ incentive plan has been satis-
factorily initiated, with essential
commodities now available on sale
in Ruhr shops, it has not given the
necessary stimulus which was ex-
pected to bring coal production up
to the record March level.

A total of 13,094 surplus US Army
vehicles has been turned over to the
German economy in the US Zone
since September, 1945. Of this total,
7,100 vehicles have been restored to
serviceability. In the British Zone,
6,900 surplus British Army vehicles
have been transferred and 1,300 made
serviceable.

Procedure specifically providing for
the coordination of legislation with

The section on Occupational
Activities is compiled from the
Semimonthly Report of Military
Government No. 89, official an-
nouncements by MG and affiliat-
ed organizations, and public in-
formation offices throughout the
US Zone, to give a summary of
developments throughout the oc-
cupied area of Germany.

the Bizonal Council of States prior
to passage by the Bizonal Economic
Council was adopted by the later
body.

Poor production of binder twine
has made it necessary to purchase
5,100 tons of the product, principally
from the United States, in order to
harvest this year's grain,

Public servants employed in all
bizonal agencies as of March 31
numbered 750,561, according to the
Bipartite Civil Service Group, Of this
number, 745,757, or 99.4 percent, were
listed in the employ of the Transport
and Postal Departments, Only 3,884,
one half of one percent of the entire
number, were stationed in or around
Frankfurt.

US Zone

Important new books issued re-
cently by German publishing houses
include “Deutschland und Europa”
(Germany and Europe) by Heinrich
G. Ritzel; “Erlebtes aus Aufstieg und
Niedergang einer Demokratie’ (The
Rise and Decline of German De-
mocracy) by Gustav Noske, and ‘Der
Pulverfluss" (Powder River) by Stru-
thers Burt.

Bavaria

A collection of old masters from
the Alte Pinakothek in Munich has
been shipped to Brussels for an ex-
hibition, arranged between the Bel-
gium and Bavarian governments. The
collection of 169 paintings is con-
sidered the finest in Bavaria, and
one of the six outstanding collections
of old masters in the world. It in-
cludes the work of Leonardo da
Vinci, Mabusa, Ghirlandajo, Albrecht
Duerer, Lucas Cranach the Elder,
Rembrandt and Peter Paul Rubens. |

The Hallthurn Recreational Home, —
valued at approximately RM 305,000, —

is the first of more than 100 properties

(Continued on page 22)

MAY 18, 1949

--- Page 6 ---
ORGANIZATION

since the end of World War IL

House in Berlin is named.

Voluntary women's organizations, which were abolished during the Nazi
regime, are making a postwar comeback in the occupied territory of
Germany. Dozens of these clubs have been formed since 1945.

In the following article, Dr. Agnes von Zahn-Harnack traces the history
ot German women's organizations from 1918, when women won the right
in Germany to vote, until 1933 when Nazi pressure forced the groups to
disband. She then tells how women's clubs have been revived in Berlin

Dr. von Zahn-Harnack is the president of the Berliner Frauenbund, 1947.
She is the author of the “History of the Feminist Movement in Germany,”
and of a biography of her father, Adolf von Harnack, after whom Harnack

Harnack House was presented to von Harnack as a gift by the Kaiser
Wilhelm Institute for the Advancement of Science, to be used as a guest
house for scientists and research workers from other countries.

By Dr. Agnes von Zahn-Harnack

President, Berliner Frauenbund, 1947

HIS ARTICLE could begin with

the year 1893, when the initiative
for uniting the German women's
organizations into one body came
from the United States (the unifica-
tion movement began after the German
delegation returned from the Inter-
national Council of Women, which was
held in Chicago); or it could start
from 1945, when the German women
had to make a new beginning and
rebuild what the Hitler regime had
destroyed. But 1893 is too long ago,
and 1945 is too near. It will be better
to go back to the end of the first
world war, to 1918. Germany then
was covered with a fine network of
active women's clubs—from East
Prussia to the last small town on the
Swiss frontier, from the Rhine to
Posen and Breslau,

The majority of these organizations
had united to form the Council of
German Women (Bund Deutscher
Frauenvereine). This council consisted
Of about 800,000 members from all pro-
fessions, all walks of life, and all
Political parties: housewives as well

MAY 18, 1948

as women doctors, business women,
artisans and artists.

Besides the Council of Women,
there were women trade unions which
were very active in feminist problems,
and two big welfare organizations of
Protestant and Roman _ Catholic
women, respectively. All of these
women had done social and welfare
work together during the first
world war.

HE INFLUENCE of women had

grown immensely in Germany,
but they still lacked the right to vote.
The suffrage movement had never
been very strong here. The Council of
Women held regular big congresses
that were in themselves a sort of
women's parliament. Here laws were
proposed, worked out, and discussed;
new social methods were propagated,
and drives were started to interest
women in public affairs. But the effect
of this work was limited.

Then, in 1918, the right to vote was
given to German women, and in Jan-
uary, 1919, they voted for the first
time in German history in the election

3

for the Weimar National Assembly.
Women grasped their new potentiality
with enthusiasm; more women than
men voted. Young women especially
were fired with their new respon-
sibility, and proved more keen to cast
their votes than men of the same age.

The Weimar National Assembly,
after that election, included about
10 percent of women delegates, In the
following years the percentage de-
creased slowly. But, though few in
number, the women in Parliament
were very successful.

The years 1920 to 1928 brought a
tich harvest of laws, called Women's
Laws because they had been prepared
by women or in close cooperation
with women legislative leaders, and
because they fulfilled special wishes
and ideals of women.

The Youth Welfare Law, in its time
the most progressive law of its kind
in all Europe, and in fact a children's
Magna Charta, was passed in 1922.
At about the same time, a law was
passed which modified existing laws
on the religious education of children,
and gave the mother the same right
in making a decision on the matter
as the father had.

A law was also passed permitting
women to enter all branches of the
legal profession, prompting the Min-
ister of Justice to express the hope
that “the law of men would now be-
come a law of humanity.”

A law providing protection for
home workers was passed a year
later, and it was called Lex Behm in
honor of the member of Parliament,
Margarete Behm, who had fought for
this legislation for many years.

A most important law dealing with
juvenile courts was also established.

In 1927 a law was passed designed
to aid in the battle against venereal
diseases. Dr. Marie Elisabeth Lueders,
now an Officer in the Frauenbund, had

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
devoted a great deal of work to pro-
mote it.

The year 1928 brought a new and
better law on the protection of women
before and after confinement.

HIS SUCCESS could only be

attained because the women
members of Parliament were backed
by large and influential women's
organizations. If the women members
of Parliament had difficulty in bring-
ing their legislative colleagues to see
the feminine point of view, they
called for pressure from their women's
organizations. Furthermore, women's
legislation was aided by a good press,
and support of magazines with wide
circulation,

But 1928 was a turning point, and
gradually the influence of women de-
clined. There were several reasons for
this decrease.

First, the men in Germany began
to feel uneasy about the part women
played in political affairs. They pro-
fessed to be afraid that the nation
might become “feminized” or “soft”
through the female influence, and they
were anxious lest their own political
power be curtailed. The tendencies
which led to Hitler's regime were
beginning to make themselves felt.

In the second place, the world was
slowly moving into the period of
universal depression; well-paid jobs
become rare, many persons were
dismissed and out of work. The cry
arose in Germany that if dismissals
were necessary, women should be
the first to go and leave their position
free for a “man with a family.” The
fact that most of the working women
had also to support a family, or old
parents, was overlooked, in spite of
efforts by the women's organizations.
Women lost many important positions

through the excuse of “economy
measures.”
Lastly, among the women them-

selves a certain change of mind took
place, The generation which had been
in its ‘teens when the first world war
ended was now about 30 years of age.
Many of these young women, who had
Jost their chance of marriage through
the war losses, took up professions
with the hope of fulfilling their lives
through such work. This hope did not

INFORMATION BULLETIN

always come true. Many were dis-
illusioned and uneasy about their
future. In a vague, romantic way they
looked back to times when women
lived peacefully in a home, protected
by a husband, surrounded by their
children, and wished for some event
which might turn back the wheel of
history.

OR ABOUT five years, from 1928
to 1933, the women’s organizations
fought these three dangerous tend-
encies. Their efforts were in vain.
On May 8, 1933, an order was pro-
mulgated stating that the following

Dr. von Zahn-Harnack, who wrote
Women’s Organizations in Germany,
stands on the porch of her home in
Victoria Luise street, in Halensee-

Berlin, British Sector. (DENA-Bild)
conditions must be met if the German
Council of Women were to continue
as a working body:

1. Recognition of Hitler's complete
authority over the Council as leader
of the National Socialist party.
2. Acceptance of the place and tasks
that National Socialism considered
suitable for women,
3 .Dismissal of all non-Aryan mem-
bers from any office.
4, Appointment of National Socialist
party members to leading offices.

A meeting of officers from all parts
of Germany was called, and it was
voted to dissolve the Council. The

4

vote was taken without discussion of
the Nazi demands. None of the leaders
of the so-called “old feminist” move-
ment went over to the party; a few
did who had held minor positions,
During the next 12 years, from 1933
to 1945, the German women lost the
tight to be elected to any Parliament;
they lost nearly all leading positions
in education; they were no longer
allowed to hold positions in the legal

Pe SS ee

profession; they worked only in
welfare fields, and in women’s in-
stitutes.

The members of the old feminist
movement went on meeting in small,
clandestine circles; in many places
they formed camouflaged discussion
groups in which the idea of moral
resistence was strengthened; they kept
up their old-age help projects, which
included Jewish members as long as _
they were free and in Germany. The _
old feminist movement was not dead;
but the young generation had lost
touch with it. 4

Meeting places had to be changed
often, for the Gestapo watched closely
and caused several groups to
dissolve. The denominational organ-
izations which had not been dis-
solved were limited to a consideration
of strictly religious topics.

HEN CAME 1945 and the end of ©
World War II.

As soon as the streets were cleared —
of rubble, women's groups began to
meet. In Zehlendorf, one of Berlin's
suburbs, a group met on May 18 when ~
the embers of the bombed houses had
hardly cooled, and dead bodies of
men and horses were still lying in the
streets.

The group was formally organized —
in July, 1945. Its constitution stated —
that its members were “firmly re-_
solved to work for the moral, social, —
and economic reconstruction of the
German people; and to give women ~
the place in the family and in pro- ~
fessional and political life that was —
due them.”

The bylaws included an expression
of the hope that bonds of friendship
and cooperation, which in the days
before Hitler had linked Germ

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
women's clubs to international women's
organizations, might be renewed.

This first postwar German woman's
club was licensed by the English to
hold meetings in Wilmersdorf in the
British Sector of Berlin, so _ its
members gave it the name “Wilmers-
dorfer Frauenbund, 1945." Meetings
were held two or three times a month
at which political, social and edu-
cational topics were discussed. The
chief aim of these discussion meetings
was to make women see their respon-
sibility in public life.

Committees were organized to study
special topics: a committee for peace;
for international relations; for social
and moral hygiene; for academic
problems; for household work. A very
active youth group was formed. The
many difficulties attendant with life in
a country just emerging from war
handicapped the clubwomen, but did
not dishearten them, Obtaining money
for renting halls, paying secretarial
work, and printing, was a recurring
worry.

This club remained strictly detached
from all political parties, while taking
an active interest in major political
issues. When Berlin held its first
postwar election in October, 1946, the
club prepared a women’s program, and
invited members of the four political
parties to discuss their programs at
meetings.

The “Wilmersdorfer Frauenbund”
was granted a wider license on
Dec, 19, 1947, when the Allied Kom-
Mandatura gave it permission to
work in all four sectors of Berlin.

Two other women’s organizations
were. given the same license, “The
Emergency Union, 1947” (Notgemein-
schaft) and the large “Democratic
Womens’ Union” (Demokratischer
Frauenbund Deutschland). The last-
named Union follows the policies of
the Democratic Women's Union, which
is licensed in the Soviet Zone. It is
closely linked with the International
Democratic Women's Federation, which
was founded in Paris in the fall
of 1945,

Many groups undertake practical
work besides their work of moral
Teorientation. The Wilmersdorf group
has opened a marriage guidance

MAY 18, 1948

clinic, and a clothes agency where
clothes given by members, or donated
from abroad, are distributed.

International women's organizations
have shown interest and sympathy in
the fledgling efforts of the German
women's groups. The International
Council of Women invited one German
woman to its conference in Phila-
delphia last fall, and the Federation
of Business and Professional Women
have sent visitors with whom the
German club members could discuss
their problems.

The National Council of Women of
Great Britain and the British Asso-
ciation of University Women have
displayed special interest, the last
named organization having sponsored
the academic committee of the Wil-
mersdorf club.

Club members say they have found
these signs of good will very en-
couraging and stimulating. They
believe that unless women every-
where cooperate and help create a
world that not only longs for peace
but really establishes it, no welfare
work is of any use. For Germany,
however great the economic and
political problems, the moral problem
is the most urgent of all. Women's
clubs in Germany today work for a
new ethical basis of life.

~ US Courses on Rise

At public high schools (Volkshoch-
schulen) in Wuerttemberg-Baden, there
was a marked increase during 1947 in
courses dealing with the United States.
Twenty such courses were offered in
the fall of 1947, whereas only nine had
been offered during the preceding fall
term. Courses concerned with the
history and culture of countris outside
Germany showed an increase of 300
percent,

Gifts Top Million Mark

Gift parcels from the United States
sent into the four zones of Germany,
and Berlin, by international parcel
post in February exceeded the
million mark for the first month
since the Christmas peak volume was
reached in November, 1947, Communi-
cations Group, Office of the Econo~
mics Adviser, OMGUS, has announced.
The figure was 1,020,000.

5

Electric Construction
Approved in Bizonia

A comprehensive electrical recon-
struction and building plan by German
engineers, calculated to bring the
electricity producing capacity of the
Bizonal Area up. to 5,550,000 kilo-
watts by the end of 1952, was approv-
ed by the Bizonal Economic Council
with the concurrence of the Bipartite
Control Office.

This production, together with in-
creases to be gained from a similar
program being planned for non-public
utilities which sell surplus power to
public utility stations, will be suffi-
cient to accomodate the bizonal
electricity demands at that time and
provide a reasonable reserve. The
combined zones have an_ installed
plant capacity in operable condition,
rated at 3,120,000 KW.

The expansion program is divided
into two parts. First, existing plants
will be repaired and reconstructed,
and, second, new installations will be
constructed.

The repair program set down for
the electric utility industry will
attempt to gain 1,100,000 KW of addi-
tional generating capacity during the
next four years. To offset losses
brought about by obsolescense, nor-
mal breakdowns and wearing out of
equipment, the schedule calls for
repairing an average of 500,000 KW
capacity per year.

Building of new installations is
designed to add 1,350,000 KW in new
plant capacity during the next five
years. In the new plant program,
first priority will be given to hydro
plants, second to brown coal burning
plants, and the third to hard coal
plants. Emphasis will be placed on
the completion of new plants on
which construction was already star-
ted prior to the end of the war.

The German committee of nine
engineers will advise the German
Economic Administration in carrying
out this plan to make the Bizonal
Area self-sufficient in electrical power.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
News Policy Reaffirmed

Gen. Lucius D. Clay, US Mili-
tary Governor, has reaffirmed his
“Goldfish” policy of dissemination
of information. His only stipu-
lation is that Military Govern-
ment spokesmen be sure of their
facts and familiar with the sub-
ject they are discussing.

The Military Governor's an-
nouncement followed reports that
certain immediate sources of in-
formation had been closed to
them. Instructions have been
forwarded that no information is
to be withheld from any media
unless it has been classified for
security reasons by authorized
and responsible personnel.

New Production Mark

The value of goods manufactured
in Hesse since the war reached a new
monthly high of RM 194,000,000 in
February, OMG Hesse announced.
This exceeded the previous peak
reached in November, 1947, by more
than RM 6,000,000.

February's record production was
considered remarkable in view of the
fact that maximum output usually
occurs in the last quarter of the year
and is at its lowest point during the
first quarter. If the trend continues,
OMGH officials said, Hesse may
exceed 60 per cent of the 1936 level
of production next fall.

The bulk of gains, officials said, was
recorded in the chemical and machinery
industries.

Press Services Meet

For the first time since the be-
ginning of the occupation, represent-
atives of the four licensed German
news agencies, DENA (US), ADN
(Soviet), DPD (British), and Suedena
(French), met in Berlin to discuss the
interzonal exchange of German cor-
respondents.

As a result of these discussions, it
will be recommended to the four
occupying powers that free inter-
zonal interchange of correspondents
be permitted if full freedom in re-
porting can be assured. — Military,
Government Report No. 31.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

International Courses Arranged

Three international courses will be
held in Germany this summer at the
universities of Marburg, Munich, and
Heidelberg, the Education and Cul-
tural Affairs Division, OMGUS, has
announced.

Each course will be of three weeks’
duration, from July 24 through Aug. 13.
Enrollment is open to 300 foreign
students, including American. The
student enrollment in each university
will be 100 foreign and 200 German
students. The courses are also open
to Americans in the European Com-
mand.

The purpose of the course is to
foster international understanding
among university students. This is the
first large-scale attempt to carry out
such a project in the US Zone.

Eminent professors from Rome,
Zurich, Upsala, Paris, London and
America will constitute the faculty,
together with German professors from
German universities.

The planning for these courses has
been a joint project of the university
faculties and of Military Government
education officers, These committees
have agreed to waive tuition costs to
entering foreign students.

All students will live together in
university dormitories and student
houses, and will eat together. Meals
will be served in a common mess
operated by the university Studenten-
werk,

Student groups have planned re-
creational excursions, to nearby areas
of Germany; discussion groups, and
social activities for the student
members.

The total living cost at the uni-
versity will be $50 (in dollar instru-
ments) per student. This does not
include transportation to or from the
university city, but includes room,
board and all course fees. Scholarships
are available,

American students who wish to
enroll should register airmail with the
Office of Cultural Exchange, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, APO

6

742, clo Postmaster, New York. This
letter of registration must include the
following material:

A short personal history, major and
minor fields of study, type and extent
of student extra-curricula activity
participation, the German university
preferred, a statement of the student's
facility with the German language,
and a certification by the student's
university or college that he or she
is in good standing and is recom-
mended for enrollment.

New High Reached

The Bizonal Area leather and foot-
wear industry hit a new high during
January, according to figures released
by the Bipartite Commerce and In-
dustry Group. During that month,
2,247,332 pairs of footwear were made
for indigenous consumption, as com-
pared with 1,481,736 pairs in January,
1947,

This increase has been brought about
through the flow-back system of
leather checks which has concentrated
production in the most efficient plants,
Bipartite officials stated.

This means that if the buying public
prefers the products of one factory
over another, the manufacturers re-
ceiving the most leather checks during
the flow-back process can purchase
immediately new leather stocks and
can accomplish more efficient pro-
duction through increased output.

Also, during the last six months,
orders for $10,000,000 worth of hides
have been placed on behalf of the
Bizonal Area. Since the first of these
orders are just beginning to arrive in
Germany, they cannot have contri-
buted directly to increased produc-
tion, it was stated.

But Bipartite observers feel that the
prospect of imports has brought about
an improved declaration of indigenous
leather stocks, thereby making an in-
direct contribution toward greater
shoe output. .

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 10 ---
Labor

AILWAY UNIONISTS in Germany

have the same interest today in
keeping their organizations private
and self-contained as they had before
the rise of Hitler, but they see the
difficulties more clearly because of
their experience under the Nazi Labor
Front.

Their problem can be stated briefly;
the unions must remain independently
democratic, or they cannot remain
private and free. Today union leaders
see democracy, and the right to
remain free, as the same. They realize
they must have young leaders who
are able to understand the import-
ance of this and who will fight to
retain it.

In this connection, the German rail-
way unions have revived a leader-
ship school at Hammersbach, two
miles from the scenic Garmisch resort
area. The school, founded in 1928, was
Suppressed as democratic by the
Nazis in 1933, It was reopened in
March, 1947.

Some educators might question the
calling of this center a school. There
are no classrooms, desks, blackboards
or chalk. There is no library, there
are no books, and no office where
records are kept. Students take no
written examinations. There is no
grading. Students are not required to
take lecture notes, Finally, there are
ho term papers to write.

But there is a meeting hall where
the students listen to lectures and
discussion for 35 hours or more per
Week. Sometimes the instructor pauses
to ask questions, but most of the
questions are put by the students.
Frequently the entire lecture period
is taken up with discussion. When
the lecture is over the students follow

MAY 18, 1948

By Nels Anderson
Expert Consultant, Information Control
Division and Manpower Divsion
the instructor out, still asking

questions or posing problems.

TUDENTS AT Hammersbach are

selected by the railway union
leaders at the railroad centers in the
US, British, or French Zones. None
has come from the Soviet Zone. Some
are young men who have been
elected as works councillors. Others
have been elected to minor union
positions.

Most of those already in leadership
positions average 25 years of age. In
addition to these, the local unions
send a few workers who seem to have
some qualifications for leadership and
who average about 20 years of age.

The young works councillors attend
the school at railroad expense, where-
as the younger students receive their
pay and maintenance from the union.

Most of these students are be-
ginners in the shops, or offices, or on
the railroad trains. With few ex-

The Railway Trade Union School Building at Hammersbach.

ceptions they are following the occu-
pations of their fathers. They are
among the 90percent of German youth
who leave school at 14 and begin
their work as apprentices.

Some of the teachers who come to
Hammersbach are leaders of the rail-
way union—persons with ability as
lecturers. Some are school teachers
or university professors who have a
special interest in this form of adult
education. Others are leaders in other
German labor unions, who have some
special field of knowledge.

Economically, socially and _politi-
cally, most of the day-to-day problems
of the begining railroader are also
the problems of the union, or of that
local plant unit, the works council.
The council in a plant of 300 to 400
workers has eight to 12 elected
members, It is an honor for a young
man to be chosen to a position as
councillor, but it is also a responsible
job.

HE YOUNG MAN who is elected
a member of a works council
often finds himself in a confused
position. The workers come to him

(PIO OMG)

--- Page 11 ---
with many questions and problems.
He does not always know the answers.
If he displays talent and a zeal for
employee relations, he has the basic
qualifications’ for being selected for
a course at Hammersbach.,

In connection with the numerous
problems he must face, the young
councillor must have some knowledge
of labor and civil service laws, and
of labor courts. He must know some-
thing about the procedure for dealing
with labor grievances, or differences
among workers. The purpose of Ham-
mersbach is to help such young leaders
find the right answers.

During the school’s first postwar
year 18 groups, averaging 50 students
each, from Munich, Hanover, Ham-
burg, Frankfurt, and other cities
completed the two-weeks course. The
group that completed its work most
recently came from Stuttgart.

In addition to introductory and
summary talks, these students listened
to 18 lectures of three hours each, from
10 different instructors. Each instructor
gave several lectures, then remained
at the school two or three days,
engaging the students in discussion.

Although examinations are not given,
each instructor will indicate
which students seemed to him espe-
cially capable. Each student knows
that some 20 out of each group will
be selected later to attend another
labor school for a month or six weeks
of more advanced instruction. From
these more advanced schools a limited
number of students are selected to
attend the labor college at the Uni-
versity of Frankfurt.

later

TUDENTS SELECTED for advance-

ment are those who display
superior capability in the questions
they ask or the problems they raise,
or in their ability to take part in
discussion.

Attending lectures at Hammersbach
is not, therefore, a task merely of
listening and remembering. It is con-
cerned with organizing ideas, in
relating the new to the old and in
absorbing meaning rather than the
rote learning of pattern answers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Here is a brief summary of the
72 hours of lectures given to a student
group from Munich in 29 periods by
11 different instructors:

able to develop both convictions and ~
tolerance. 4

Union leaders contend the: many
of the most dependable railway union

Relation of the workers to the various welfare laws and to the

railroad welfare services . . .

Letter writing, technical terms, public speech . . . . . «
Rights of workers under various labor laws .

Economics of production, wages, prices, etc. .

History of the railroads, unions, works councils .

Examination of works council laws .

Railroad workers and civil service laws .

Union contracts and collective agreements. .
Democracy in the union and politics . .
Conciliation, adjustment of labor grievances .

Trade union administration . .

Recruiting youth for the railroads and unions. . . .

An official of the railway union
said that schools such as the one at
Hammersbach were necessary because
the kind of direct thinking needed for
democratic labor leadership is not
developed at the lower levels of public
education. The good leader, he de-
clared, must be able to think in-
dependently and clearly, and must be

a? ee wwe 8 5 lectures —

me DNNNNN & & &

officers were products of Hammers. —
bach. And these leaders are willing to ©
spend an average of RM 12,000 out of _
union funds for each class attending
the school. ‘

The chief problem the railway union ~
faces is insufficient time to train the ©
number of leaders it needs. Union
officials estimate that at least 5,000 —

Household goods belonging to US personnel transferring from Berlin to
stations in the US Zone are shown being placed in C-47 cargo planes
at Tempelhof airport. Planes were utilized when trucks loaded with —
household goods were not permitted to pass Soviet check points, under

new Soviet travel restrictions.

8

(Signal Corps) ~~

MAY 18,

--- Page 12 ---
young men need to be given such
initial training during the next three
or four years.

'AMMERSBACH WOULD seem to

meet the American frontier defi-
nition of a good school—a good
teacher sitting at one end of a bench
and a good student at the other. This
is intrinsically democratic, and it leads
to democratic behavior. It is easy to
understand why such instruction was
-not tolerated by the Nazis, and why
such a school would not be permitted
in totalitarian countries today.

The union leaders have seen what
happened in all the nondemocratic
countries where the Communists used
the methods of democracy to get in-
side the control circle, and then
maneuvered themselves into full con-
trol. Czechoslovakia is the most recent
case, but this familiar device was
used to gain control of the labor
movements in France and Italy. Ger-
man labor leaders know what hap-
pened in Berlin, where the free unions
elected to cooperate with the Com-
munists, and then lost their inde-
pendence.

Independent labor unions in Ger-
many have learned the lesson that
their democracy is put in jeopardy
once they fall under any form of
political control.

Democratic unionism can be re-
tained only by continuous effort. To
remain free, the unions must have
leaders who can think straight, talk
straight and who know that the
strength of union democracy is the
security of political democracy. The
Hammersbach school is designed to
develop such leaders.

Zone Receiving Penicillin

The imports of
21,000,000,000 Oxford units of penicil-
lin to the US Zone are being received
monthly. This quantity is sufficient
for the treatment of all cases of
gonorrhea and other diseases in
which it is specifically indicated, as
well as for the treatment of selected
cases of syphilis, such as in preg-
Nancy, congenital syphilis or in cases
with sensitivity to arsenicals.

MAY 18, 1948

approximately -

Notice to US Readers

Distribution of the Information Bulletin to individual addresses in the
United States will be transferred after July 1, 1948, to the office of the
Department of the Army, Civil Affairs Division, Reports & Analysis
Branch, The Pentagon, Washington 25, D.C. After that date, no distribu-
tion to individual recipients will be made directly from the headquarters
of the Office of Military Government for Germany (US).

Each addressee on the current mailing list has shown the need for the
Information Bulletin in the interest of public service. To bring this list
up to date and emphasize the use of the magazine as a public service,
a check is being made of all US recipients to assure inclusion of their
names on the list being transferred to Washington for future distribution.

All persons, offices and agencies in the United States who have
been receiving regular distribution of the Information Bulletin directly
from this office in Germany are requested to fill out the card attached
to the cover, and mail it immediately.

Those offices and institutions which have been receiving distribution
from the Civil Affairs Division and Public Information Division of the
Department of the Army, the State Department, and the Library of
Congress are NOT affected by this transfer, thus no reply is desired
from them. Also not affected are recipients in Europe.

OMGB Reorganizing Field Detachments

Field detachments of the Office of
Military Government for Bavaria are
being reorganized and centralized in
the interest of greater efficiency, Lt.
Col. Robert M. Connolly, executive
officer, OMG Bavaria, has announced.

The revised plan will include a
Field Operations Division to be located
at OMGB Headquarters in Munich,
with branches at Nuremberg, Regens-
burg, Augsburg, Wuerzburg and
Munich. Each of these five branches
will be further broken down into
areas, composed of from one to 13

active and inactive cities and
counties.
These areas will be under the

supervision of an area commander to
whom all Military Government officers
within that district are responsible
for the effective operation of their
territory.

Boundaries of these five newly-
established branches will closely
follow those of US Military posts in
Bavaria. Branch chiefs, known as
“Branch Coordinators and Inspectors,”
will be located in towns where mili-
tary posts have established head-
quarters.

Of the 142 cities and counties that
formerly had Military Government

9

detachments, only 91 will now retain
their American MG personnel, 51
having been declared inactive.

Inactive counties are defined as
those which have no DP or IRO
installations, contain less than 50
American troops, have no cities of
50,000 people or more, and do not
have critical border crossings.

Problems arising in these inactive
counties will be handled by the
Military Government officer presiding
over one of the adjacent active
counties.

Under the new system, the largest
branch, having six areas and 24
counties, is located at Nuremberg.

More Prisoners Working

Statistics of Legal Division, OMGUS,
indicate an increase in 1947 in the
percentage of prisoners engaged in
useful employment. In Bavaria, for
example, 55 percent of the prison
population was employed in January;
this figure increased to 71 percent by
September. In Wuerttemberg-Baden
the increase was from 57 to 83 per-
cent; in Bremen from 74 to 86 per-
cent; and in Hesse from 50 to 68 per-
cent.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
6 GERMAN BROADCASTERS STUDY IN US

First Major Project for Training Germans in Public Information
Will Take Group on American, Canadian Tour, then to London

IX GERMAN broadcasters, chosen

from stations in the US, British
and French occupation areas, have
gone to the United States to begin a
six-months study of the American
and British radio industries. This is the
first major project for training Ger-
mans in the United States in the field
of public information,

The broadcasters left Frankfurt by
plane recently, Their trip is under-
written by the Rockefeller Foundation,
which has authorized Columbia Uni-
versity to direct their activities,

The program calls for two months
of special research at Columbia Uni-
versity, New York City, coordinated
with practical work on the radio staffs
of some of the large local stations,
This will be followed by a two months’
tour of the United States and Canada,
a final two-week seminar in New York,
and then by six weeks at the Staff
College of BBC in London.

“We feel this orientation of German
radio workers can play a vital role in
building a free radio for Germany." Col.
Gordon E, Textor, director of the In-
formation Control Division, OMGUS,
said. “It will give them an opportunity
to see for themselves the role that
modern radio plays in a free state,
to become acquainted with the re-
sponsibilities as well as the privileges
of freedom of the air, and to gain
knowledge of the professional skills
that are used in bringing information
to the people in a democratic state.”

OLONEL TEXTOR pointed out

that while this first orientation
tour will emphasize programming and
policy, the visitors also will learn
new developments in radio technique
which will enable them to assist in
building up more attractive programs
for the German radio.

Of the six Germans chosen to par-
ticipate in the initial program, four
are from the US Zone, one from the
French and one from the British.
Selections were made with the assist-
ance of Allied Military Government

INFORMATION BULLETIN

officials on the basis of present and
potential contributions to German
radio. The group includes men from
23 to 44 years of age, with back-
grounds in academic, journalistic,
and dramatic fields, in addition to
their radio experience.
The members of the group are:

Hans Herbert Westermann, in charge
of the youth department at Radio
Bremen, Mr, Westermann, youngest of
the group, was a British prisoner of
war, and on his release worked on
the staff of the Bremen newspaper,
“Weser-Kurier.”

Dr. Rudolf Didczuhn, literary editor
and dramatist at Radio Munich, was
drama director ef the Greifwald
Stadttheater before the war. He was
discharged for refusal to join the
Nazi Party.

Otto Herr, commentator and chief
of the political department, Radio
Frankfurt. At the rise of mazism, Mr.
Herr went to France where he was
employed in the export department of
a large commercial firm. During the
war he was first interned by the

Six German broadcasters pose
just before taking off for New

10

French and later drafted into the Ger.
man army. He has been with Radio
Frankfurt since 1946, ,

Dr. Peter Kehm, a _ native of —
Stuttgart and head of the literary —
department of Radio Stuttgart, Dr. —
Kehm received his PH. D. from the
University of Munich during the war, _
and had a brief career as theatrical
producer before he was drafted into
the army. He was held as an Allied
prisoner of war for eight months, and ~
on his release joined the staff of Radio —
Stuttgart. 4

Franz Karl Theodor Reinholz, ap-
pointee from the British Zone, has ~
served with the Nordwestdeutscher ~
Rundfunk since 1945, He taught at the
Hamburg Volksschule and at Hamburg —
Experimental School before the war, ~
During the war he was in the meteor-
ological department of the German —
Air Force,

Horst Scharfenberg, representing ©
the French Zone radio, is deputy pro- —
gram director of Suedwestfunk, Baden:
Baden. He is a native of Frankfurt —
and attended Frankfurt University,

at Rhine-Main airport, Frankfurt,
York.

OMGWB (photo)

MAY 18, 19

--- Page 14 ---
Fifteen leaders of the Nazi-dominated bar at their war crimes trial in the Palace of Justice, Nuremberg.
They are (front row, left to right) Joseph Altstoetter, Wilhelm von Ammon, Paul Barnickel, Herman Cuhorst,
Karl Engert, Guenther Joel, Herbert Klemm, and Ernst Lautz. (Back row, left to right): Wolfgang Mettgenberg,
Guenther Nebelung, Rudolf Oeschey, Hans Petersen, Oswald Rothaug, Curt Rothenberger, Franz Schlegelberger.

COURTS ¢

Part II

HE EXTENT to which German jus-

tice had deteriorated after 12
years of National Socialism is illus-
trated by an incident which occurred
in Bavaria two weeks before V-E Day.
On April 23, 1945, with American
troops only 13 miles from the city,
a few of the women, children and old
men left in Regensburg staged an
abortive peace demonstration, They
gathered at the Cathedral, and in the
ensuing confusion two persons, includ-
ing a priest, were arrested by the
Gestapo and charged with “‘destroy-
ing army morale.”

Though the city was virtually de-
fenseless and morale must have al-
Teady been at an irreducibly low ebb,
the offenders were nevertheless
brought before a special German mili-
tary commission (Standgericht), They
Were convicted and hanged a few
hours before US troops captured the

MAY 18, 1948

city. The fact that the president of
the special military commission was
also a judge in the Regensburg district
court lent a pseudo-legal air to the
proceedings, but the underlying
psychology must have been one of

Part II of Courts in Germany
deals with Military Government's
efforts to reform and rebuild the
courts and administration of Jus-
tice since 1945. The article, last
in a series, was written by
reports officers in the Legal
Division, OMGUS.

blind and vicious despair. No other
explanation is possible.

One day later the situation in Re-
gensburg was vastly different. SHAEF
Proclamation No. 1, which had applied
to all occupied territory from the first
invasion of German.soil in September,
1944, finally became the law of Re-

11

(Signal Corps)

gensburg. Under its provisions the
operation of all German courts was
suspended, Regensburg—and most of
Western Germany—thereby won res-
pite from a system of justice which
in the last months of the war had
become increasingly arbitrary, mind-
less and tyrannical,

The initial reaction must have been
a sigh of relief. The People’s Court
and the Special Courts, created for the
trial of political and racial cases, had
long since become symbols of Nazi
terrorism, In addition, a curtailment
of the rights of defendants in the ordi-
nary courts had been greatly accele-
rated since the outbreak of war, For
example, no defendant was entitled to
defense counsel if the court thought
it unnecessary. In most cases no
appeal against the judgment of the
court was permitted.

The object, as more than one Nazi
apologist had explained, was not to
arrive at a just verdict, but to extermi-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
nate the offender as quickly as pos-
sible. However little the layman under-
stood the theory behind National
Socialist justice, he must have shud-
dered at its practice,

{ILITARY GOVERNMENT'S § task

in the summer of 1945 was there-
for twofold. The guilty—those who
had built up and administered
the system—had to be sought and
punished, and the courts themselves
had to be re-established with a staff
of reliable personnel. In the early
months these two processes were
inseparable, for the courts could not
be operated without judges, and
judges could not be appointed until
they had been investigated and found
reasonably free of Nazi taint. The
major offenders in the perversion of
German justice were tried by the tri-
bunals established in Nuremberg.

One, Hans Frank, was tried and
sentenced to death by the Internation-
al Military Tribunal. He is chliefy
remembered as governor of Poland
and eastern occupied territory, but
during his career he had also been
Reichskommissar for the coordination
of justice and president of both the
International Chamber of Law and the
Academy of German Law.

The trial of 15 other leaders of the
Nazi-dominated bar was opened be-
fore a US Military Tribunal at Nurem-
berg on March 6, 1947. Two officials
who would have been defendants
committed suicide before the trial
opened—Adolf Georg Thierack,. for-
merly minister of justice, and Carl
Westphal, a ministerial counsellor.

Between March 6 and October 13,
when the taking of evidence was con-
cluded, 138 witnesses were called and
2,093 documentary exhibits were intro-
duced. On Aug. 22 the Tribunal or-
dered a mis-trial as to the defendant
Karl Engert, who, because of illness,
had actually appeared in court only
two days since the trial opened,

The indictment charged conspiracy
to commit war crimes and crimes
against humanity; the actual com-
mission of war crimes and crimes
against humanity, and membership in
a criminal organization, in this case
the SS, On July 11 the Tribunal ruled
that as neither the IMT Charter nor
Control Council Law No. 10 had de-
fined conspiracy to commit these

INFORMATION BULLETIN

offenses as a separate substantive
crime, it had no jurisdiction to try
any defendant upon this charge, and
insofar as it related to conspiracy,
Count I of the indictment was dis-
missed.

HE PROSECUTION undertook to

show that crimes against humanity
(those committed against German na-
tionals) were made possible princi-
pally by revision of the laws relating
to treason and high treason. These
offenses, normally rare in incidence,
became commonplaces during the
Third Reich, since the notorious Peop-
les’ Court was empowered to define
treason almost as it pleased, and could
therefore impose the death sentence
for relatively minor crimes.

As for war crimes—that is, crimes
committed against foreign popu-
lations in violation of the laws and
customs of war—the prosecution
concentrated on the Night and Fog
(Nacht und Nebel) program and the
extermination of eastern European
populations under the decrees against
Poles and Jews. Records of the Min-
istry of Justice indicate that more
than 7,000 persons were killed under
the former program by the spring of
1944; there is no way of estimating

bad sas

how many thousands of eastern Euro.
peans were exterminated under the
latter decrees, 7

On Dec. 3, the Tribunal found 10 of
the 14 defendants guilty and sentenced )
four to life imprisonment. Who were —
the top judges and officials singled
out for trial and sentence? :

1. Franz Schlegelberger, sentenced to 3
life imprisonment, was state secretary —
of the Reich Ministry and later acting ©
minister of justice, e

2. Herbert Klemm, also sentenced to _
life imprisonment, had likewise been —
a state secretary and for a brief period
before the surrender he was minister
of justice. Other positions held by —
Klemm included those of director of —
the Ministry's Legal Education and
Training Division, and deputy director ~
of the National Socialist Lawyer's —
League,

3. Rudolf Oeschey, the third of the ~
four, had been chief justice of the
Special Court in Nuremberg, a member
of the Leadership Corps of the Nazi j
Party, and an executive of the Na- —
tional Socialist Lawyer's League, 7
4. Oswald Rothaug, last defendant to
receive life imprisonment, had been ;
at various times senior public prose-

Judges who presided at the trial of 15 former leaders of the Nazi-

dominated bar are (leit to right) James T. Brand, justice of the Supreme

Court of Oregon; Carrington T. Marshall, former chief justice of the

Ohio Supreme Court; Mallory B. Blair, former associate justice of the
Court of Civil Appeals, 3rd District, Texas, and Justin W. Harding,

former assistant attorney general of Ohio.

12

(Signal Corps)

MAY 18, 1948"

--- Page 16 ---
A general view of the court room of Military Trial No. 3, Palace of Justice, Nurem-

berg, as the indictment is read against 15 former leaders of the Nazi bar.

cutor of the People’s Court, and chief
justice of the Nuremberg Special Court.

5. Ernst Lautz (10 years) had been
chief public prosecutor of the People’s
Court.

6. Wolfgang Mettgenberg (10 years),
as representative of the Criminal Leg-
islation Administration Division of
the Ministry of Justice, had been par-
ticularly active in the supervision of
the trial of offenses against German
forces in occupied territories,

7. Wilhelm von Ammon (10 years)
had likewise been involved in the
justice program in occupied territory.

8. Guenther Joel (10 years) had been
legal adviser to the Ministry of Justice
concerning criminal prosecutions, and
chief public prosecutor of Westphalia.

9. curt Rothenberger (7 years) had
been legal adviser to the Ministry of
Justice, and deputy president of the
Academy of German Law.

10. Josef Alstoetter (5 years) was
acquitted on the charges of war crimes
and crimes against humanity but con-
victed of membership in a criminal
organization by virtue of his position
as Oberfuehrer in the SS.

Paul Barnickel, Hans Petersen, Guen-
ther Nebelung and Hermann Kuhorst
Were acquitted of all charges,

MAY 18, 1948

HE DEFENSE had offered the ob-

jection that, as judges, the defend-
ants could not be called to account
for their actions on the bench, In its
decision the Court pointed out that, far
from being impartial dispensers of
justice, Nazi tribunals were only in-
struments of the executive branch of
government, The Court wrote:

“In view of the conclusive proof of
the sinister influences which were in
constant interplay between Hitler, his
ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the
Party, the Gestapo, and the courts,
we see no merit in the suggestion that
Nazi judges are entitled to the benefit
of the Anglo-American doctrine of
judicial immunity. The doctrine that
judges are not personally liable for
their judicial actions is based on the
concept of an independent judiciary
administering impartial justice.”

This aim—the concept of an in-
dependent judiciary administering im-
partial justice—was kept uppermost
in the process of rebuilding the
German court structure. The German
courts could not stay closed long.
Military Government courts, the only
tribunals authorized to operate in the
early period of the occupation, were
restricted primarily to the trial of
offenses against occupation law or
involving United Nations nationals.

13

(Signal Corps)

Accordingly, a backlog of criminal
and civil cases accumulated which re-
quired trial by German courts,

Although Military Government Law
No. 2 confirmed the suspension of
German courts, it provided that they
would reopen and resume their
functions “when and to the extent
specified in written directions of Mili-
tary Government.” The People's Court,
the Special Courts and all Nazi Party
courts and tribunals were declared
abolished.

N REOPENING the ordinary courts,

priority was given to criminal over
civil cases, for as a general rule they
were the most pressing, and they
could also be handled more ex-
peditiously. First preference was given
to criminal actions initiated after the
beginning Of the occupation and be-
fore the actual reopening of the court
in question,

Certain limitations were placed
upon the jurisdiction of the courts.
For example, they were forbidden to
try cases which involved United
Nations nationals, offenses against
Military Government law, or claims
for money against the German Govern-
ment or any of its agencies,

Under the law, Military Government
reserved to itself the right to dismiss
any German judge or prosecutor, to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
disbar from practice any notary or
lawyer, and also to review all Ger-
man court decisions administratively;
if necessary nullifying, suspending or
otherwise modifying any judgment.
No sentence of death could be carried
out without the consent of Military
Government.

Two Control Council enactments
promulgated in the early days of the
occupation completed the groundwork
for legal and judicial reform. Procla-
mation No. 3 laid down the equality
of all persons before the law as a
fundamental principle to be applied
throughout Germany. Rights of the
accused were guaranteed, and the ju-
diciary was declared independent and
free of executive control.

Control Council Law No. 4, signed
on Oct. 30, 1945, stated that reorgani-
zation of the courts would take place
in conformity with the Law Concern-
ing the Structure of the Judiciary of
Jan. 27, 1877, in the edition of March
22, 1924. Civil jurisdiction of the Local
Courts (Amtsgerichte) was extended
to money claims of up to RM 2,000,
and the District Court (Landgericht)
was given appellate jurisdiction over
the Local Court.

The Appellate Courts (Oberlandes-
gerichte) were to have no original
jurisdiction but would have final
appellate jurisdiction over decisions
of the District Courts in civil cases,
and the right of revision over decisions
of both local and District Courts in
criminal cases.

In German law, revision means
review of a case on points of law
only. Thus, while the Appellate Court
could decide that the lower court had
interpreted the law erroneously and
reverse the verdict, it could not
question factual determinations made
by a lower court in a criminal case.

OURTS BEGAN to reopen through-
out the US Zone and in the US
Sector of Berlin. By the end of August,
1945, there were nine District Courts
and 74 Local Courts in operation. In
Berlin the Court of Appeals (Kammer-
gericht), was opened on Oct. 15, giv-
ing that city the complete hierarchy
of ordinary courts authorized by Law
No. 4.
Military Government's Plan for the
Administration of Justice in the US
Zone, published the same month,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

provided for the establishment of
Appellate Courts in each of the states.
The seat of the Bavarian Court was
to be at Munich, with additional
chambers at Nuremberg and Bamberg.
(The latter two subsequently became
independent Courts of. Appeal.) In
Wuerttemberg-Baden the Court was
to sit at Stuttgart, with an additional
chamber at Karlsruhe. The Hessian
Court was established in Frankfurt.
Chambers were later opened in Darm-
stadt and Kassel, although the Darm-
stadt branch was finally closed in the
summer of 1947. .

In general, this plan coincided
with the pre-occupation judicial
organization, although the partition of
Germany into zones made certain
geographical adjustments necessary.
The court at Karlsruhe, for example,
had formerly been the Court of
Appeals for the state of Baden, part
of which is now, of course, in the
French Zone. The Darmstadt Court for-
merly had jurisdiction over Hesse,
with Frankfurt and Kassel over the
administrative districts of Wiesbaden
and Kassel, respectively.

HIYSICALLY, the matter of reopen-

ing was quickly concluded, It was
estimated that by April 1, 1946, all
courts authorized to operate in the
Zone were in fact in operation. This
number included 39 District Courts and
335 Local Courts. A variety of factors,
however, prevented their full and
efficient functioning. For one thing,
many of the courthouses were old or
had been damaged during the war,
and materials for repair were scarce.
Records had been lost or destroyed,
and there was the general administra-
tive confusion attendant upon the
aftermath of war.

But by far the greatest problem was
personnel. Both Control Council Law
No. 4 and Military Government Law
No, 8 served to bar other than nominal
Nazis from bench and practice, and
Control Council Directive No. 24 made
the injunction more specific by enum-
erating certain categories of officials
whose dismissal was mandatory.

Finally, the German-enacted Law
for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism of March 5, 1946, set
up a procedure under which quasi-
judicial determination of a _ party
member's activities could be made.

14

All of these enactments add up to de-
nazification, which hit the courts
about where it hit all other public
agencies,

To cite only one instance, a survey
of 302 judges and court officials made
in Bamberg in August, 1945, revealed
that only seven were not members of
the Nazi Party.

The exact number of Nazis dismissed
from the system since the beginning
of the occupation cannot be de-
termined, since it is probable that
after the reopening of the courts many
did not even apply for reinstatement
and hence are not listed as having
been dismissed. Of those lawyers,
judges and prosecutors tentatively
accepted after July 1945, more than
1,500 have since been dismissed under
denazification procedures.

One source of new blood has been
the expellee populations streaming
into the US Zone from Czechoslovakia
and Hungary. Germans in the US Zone,
already cramped for housing space
and short of food, have been reluctant
to accept these persons and to utilize
their skills. However, Military Govern-
ment has insisted that state ministries
of justice hire qualified expellees for
judicial and prosecuting posts, and
admit expellee lawyers to the bar.

In any event, the German legal pro-
fession is steadily regaining its prewar
strength. In January, 1946, judicial
personnel in all courts totaled only
600. By March, 1948, there were more
than 1,400. Similarly, the number of
public prosecutors was almost tripled
during the same period. At present
there are about 3,000 lawyers admitted
to practice in the US Zone,

S A COROLLARY to the increase

in legal personnel, the German
court system has made a healthy recov-
ery, exemplified in the caseload sta-
tistics. In January, 1946, the first month
for which zone-wide statistics are
available, the courts disposed of only
11,000 criminal cases. By October of
the same year the figure had risen to
almost 50,000.

While there was some falling off
in court activities because of the
severity of the 1946-47 winter, the
caseload for May exceeded 50,000,
and in November of last year the
figure exceeded 75,000 for the first
time since the start of the occupation.

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
Side by side with the physical
growth, there has been a widening of
jurisdiction. By December, 1945, Milit-
ary Government courts were turning
over to the German courts cases that
did not involve occupation security.
Among these were black market and
curfew cases,

Under Law No. 2 all public registers,
including the state and commercial
registers, were closed. This action was
necessary to prevent transfers of pro-
perty in violation of Military Govern-
ment law relating to property control
and foreign exchange. In February,
1946, a regulation issued under the
above law authorized the reopening of
these registers. In July, 1946, a second
regulation under the same law per-
mitted Americans to testify in German
courts under certain conditions.

Amendment No. 2 to Law No, 2 pro-
vides that United Nations nationals
who live in Germany permanently
are subject to the civil jurisdiction of
German courts,

Since July, 1947, certain types of
cases that were formerly tried by
Military Government courts have been
turned over to the German courts.
These include theft of Allied property
worth no more than $25, illegal border
crossing, and certain other categories
of cases selected by the individual
Military Governments of the states.
The experiment was so successful that
in December, 1947, the limit on theft
cases was raised to $100, and the
transfer of additional categories is
contemplated.

Striking proof that the German
courts are being reconstructed in
accordance with traditional ideas of

*

justice is shown by the restoration of
the jury to its rightful place in crim-
inal procedure. Prior to the Nazi
regime the jury system was an inte-
gral part of German legal practice,
and it has always been considered as
typical of Germanic law.

In 1939 there were two types of
juries in Germany. In the rural
districts, criminal cases tried before
a local court (Amtsgericht) were de-
cided by a combined panel of a judge
and two jurors that was called a
Schoeffengericht. In the urban areas,
criminal cases brought before a district
court (Landgericht) were heard by
three judges and six laymen, and the
decision was rendered by their joint
action. The entire group was de-
signated a Schwurgericht.

It was only logical that at the out-
break of the war the Nazi government
would abolish the jury system, for
this was in accordance with the prac-
tice of abolishing the rights of the
defense. The restoration of the jury
system after more than eight years
of non-existence marks a return to the
democratic ideal of a fair trial. In
November, 1947, Hesse restored both
the Schoeffengericht and the Schwur-
gericht, and in December, 1947, a
Schwurgericht was convened in Bre-
men for a case in which three Ger-
mans were charged with murder.

In both Hesse and Bremen the jury
systems are based upon German law
as it existed in 1939. In Bavaria, how-
ever, the Legislature recommended
the adoption of the jury system as
it existed in 1924, The distinction lay
in the composition of the Schwur-
gericht as three judges and 12 laymen;

* *

the jurors determining only the guilt
of the accused, while the judges
passed the sentence. The Bavarian
minister president has asked the Leg-
{islature to reconsider its decision in
order to ensure uniformity in the
practice of the states. As yet a final
decision has not been reached.

'VIDENCE OF the fact that the

German judiciary is trying to
free its country from the heritage of
oppression is found in the present
trials of political and racial crimes of
the preoccupation period. In the US
Zone the German courts may try these
cases—which are similar in character
to those heard at Nuremberg and
Dachau by US Military Tribunals—
only when the offense is a violation
of German criminal law and the victim
is a German national.

Fittingly, one of the most recent
cases was a trial in the Regensburg
District Court of eight former Nazis
in connection with the so-called
“trial” mentioned at the beginning of
this article. They were accused of
murdering the two peace demon-
strators,

Four of the eight persons accused
of participating in this affair were
convicted, the judge who had acted
as president of the special military
commission being sentenced to four
and a half years imprisonment.

This sentence represents the first
time a German court has proceeded
against a judge for participating in a
political crime in his judicial capacity,
and is proof that the German courts
are now competent to judge the Nazi
offenders who brought Germany its
harvest of ruin.

*K -

Forerunner of Nuremberg

HE CASE of Sir Peter of Hagen-

bach in 1474 appears to be the
first international war crime trial. It
has even more modern interest than
that, for it was conducted throughout
in accordance with high judicial
Standards, and the duel between the
Public prosecutor and counsel for the
defense centered in the issue of obed-
fence to superior orders. Clearly, roots
of modern international law go much

MAY 18, 1948

deeper than is commonly assumed.

To appreciate the setting of the
trial, its political background must be
sketched. Duke Charles of Burgundy
had raised his country to the zenith
of the power which Burgundy was to
achieve on the chessboard of Europe.
His friends called him Charles the
Bold. His enemies decried him as
Charles the Terrible, and by the mas-
sacre of the inhabitants of Nesles in

15

1472, he had certainly done full jus-
tice to this title.

In 1469, financial difficulties forced
the Archduke of Austria to pledge to
Charles his possessions on the Upper
Rhine, including the fortified town of
Breisach, Charles installed Sir Peter
of Hagenbach as his Governor, or
Landvogt. In accordance with the stand-
ards set by his master, Hagenbach

(Continued on page 19}

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 19 ---
EGISLATIC

ILITARY GOVERNMENT _ has

substantial legislation-review
responsibilities, extending from quad-
ripartite to all levels of German
legislation,

The nature of the review varies
with the kind of legislation. As both
Council of State-initiated laws and
Bizonal Economic Council ordinances
require prior approval by Military
Government before they can go into
effect, the review procedure is incident
to the approval.

In connection with Bizonal Economic
Council legislation, the approval is a
joint decision between US and UK
Military Governments acting through
their respective Military Governors or
Deputy Military Governors. In the
case of state legislation, prior approv-
al by Military Government is not
required as a condition to the laws
becoming effective.

The initial review and decision as
to whether a state-enacted law should
be suspended or nullified by Military
Government rests with the state direct-
or. Reserved to the Deputy Military
Governor, however, is the final power
of reviewing state-enacted legislation
and in cases of disagreement with the
state director, overriding his decision.

Military Government review of state
legislation (which is enacted by four
separate state legislatures and re-
viewed in the first instance by four
separate offices of Military Govern-
ment) and the power of final decision,
are necessary to insure consistency of
MG policy. Many of these laws, al-
though adopted by different state legis-
latures, contain provisions which are
highly similar in character and hence
demand application to them of a uni-
form and coordinated MG policy.

In April, 1947, a Legislation Review
Board was established to serve as an
advisory body in reviewing and
Passing on a wide variety of laws,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

including German state, Council of
State, Military Government, quadri-
partite, and later bizonal legislation.
The Legislation Review Board consists
of four members: the director of the
Civil Administration Division, who is
chairman; the director of the Legal
Division, the Governmentel Admini-
stration Adviser, and a representative
from the Office of Chief of Staff.

Legislation Review was taken
from the Civil .Administration
Division Cumulative Review, an
annex to the Military Governor's
Report No. 30, and revised by the
Civil Administration Division.

JHE BOARD examines legislation

to determine whether it conflicts
with Control Council legislation, or
international agreements to which the
United States is a party; whether
it constitutes an excessive delegation
of legislative power, and whether it
observes the tenets of democracy.

Also, whether is observes the feder-
al structure of German government,
with particular emphasis on the de-
centralization of functions to the
maximum degree consistent with
modern economic life, and whether
uniformity among the states is re-
quired, or whether it is a matter
falling exclusively within the consti-
tutional jurisdiction of the individual
state,

In addition to these responsibilities,
it determines whether the legislation
conflicts with other powers which are
teserved to Military Government in
order to effectuate the basic policies
of the occupation.

The staff work incident to the
application of these criteria to specific
laws is divided between the Legal
Division, which is primarily respon-
sible for the consistency of such laws

16

with Control Council and _ other 4
superior enactments and international
agreements—also whether adequate 1
provision for judicial review is pro-
vided for—and the Civil Administration ©
Division, which is primarily respon-
sible for the consistency of such laws—
with democratic tenets, the decentrali-
zation of governmental functions, and
the proper distribution of govern-
mental powers. 4
The Legislation Review Board has”
adopted the principle that the pre-
sumption for approval lies with the
German legislation and that before’
the Board will recommend disapproval ©
or suspension of such legislation it”
must be clearly demonstrated that it”
violates one of the above criteria.
The Board has ruled that it is not a~
Supreme Court passing on the con-
stitutionality of German laws, for that
is the function of the German con-—
stitutional courts. Moreover, the Board
does not attempt to evaluate the wis-—
dom or necessity of the laws, because
that would place the Board in the
position of a superior legislative body.
It is the aim of the Board to restrict
its examination to the specifically-
stated criteria mentioned above so as
to limit Military Government inter-
vention in the German legislative -
processes, and thus to encourage the
development and strengthening of
these processes. i
HE BOARD'S review of state legis-
lation has been confined almo:
solely to those laws which had b
suspended by state Military Gove:
ment. The most notable of these 4

1. Constitutional Court Law of Wuert

the individual the right to carry
appeal to the Constitutional Court om
questions of denial of constitutional
liberties. This failure violated a ba
tenet of democracy as set out in
directive of Military Government 0

MAY 18, 19%

--- Page 20 ---
Sept. 30, 1946, which calls for the
guarantee of the basic rights of indi-
viduals, and the recognition of the
tule of law as the “individual's
greatest single protection against a
capricious and willful expression of
governmental power.”

Moreover, the meager qualification
requirements set out in the law for
the position of justice of the Con-
stitutional Court, as well as other
provisions making the position honor-
ary and part-time, did not augur well
for the prestige and status which such
a court must posses, The suspension
of this law was sustained.

2. Although the compulsory Labor
Law of Hesse contained certain un-
desirable features, it was decided that
its promulgation was within the
constitutional powers of the Hessian
state legislature, and that no grounds
appeared for its disapproval under the
reservations set forth in the letter
approving the Hessian constitution.

The specific provisions of the law
which could violate the Hessian
Constitution and which could impair
the rights of the individual were
determined to be an appropriate mat-
ter for determination by the Hessian
courts rather than for action by Mili-
tary Government. With the exception
of one financial provision which was
inconsistent with a  quadripartite
action, the law was permitted to take
effect,

3. The Radio Law of Wuerttemberg-
Baden failed to set up a radio public
law corporation which was free from
governmental domination, and hence
it came into conflict with a basic
Military Government policy. The sus-
pension of this law was sustained.

HE MAJOR ISSUE involved for

the Legislation Review Board in
its review of laws initiated by the
Council of States was whether or not
the subject matter and content of the
individual law required zonal uni-
formity or whether the subject matter
fell within the jurisdiction of the
individual state legislatures. In most
instances, the Board recommended
approval of these laws, having taken
into consideration the fact that they
had the support of the Council's Par-
liamentary Advisory Council.

MAY 18, 1948

The opinion of the latter group,
which is composed of representatives
of the individual state legislatures,
that a law should have uniform enact-
ment throughout the zone in prefer-
ence to nonuniform enactment by
each state legislature, constituted good
evidence for the necessity of zonal
uniformity, and also gave these laws
democratic support.

The Legislation Review Board re-
versed its original decision to dis-
approve certain Council of State-
initiated laws after these laws had
been resubmitted by the Council and
the Parliamentary Advisory Council
with strong endorsements in favor of
their enactment.

Two laws, however, on which the
Board could not agree with the Coun-
cil of States as to the necessity of
zonal uniformity were the Law on
Conciliation and Arbitration, and the
Law on Public Accountants, Auditors,
and Tax Advisers.

Another Council-initiated law which
the Board disapproved granted certain
privileges to severely disabled per-
sons, including certain priorities on
the Reichsbahn. As the Reichsbahn is
under the jurisdiction of the Bizonal
Economic Council, the Board could
not permit the Council to legislate
beyond its field of competence.

Hermann Hirsch (left), a former high Nazi press official in Nuremberg,

T WAS THE original function of the
Legislation Review Board, in con-

nection with ordinances proposed by
the Economic Council, to prepare
briefs and recommendations for use
by the US member of the Bipartite
Board, which decides on these ordi-
nances. The work of the Legislation
Review Board in this field, originally
unilateral, was expanded later to in-
clude a British representative, in order
to make the recommendations bilateral.

While the Legislation Review Board
consisted of four members, the British
had only one representative, from
the office of the Governmental Sub-
commission, Control Commission for
Germany (British Element), This lack
of balance was corrected with the
creation on April 22, 1948, of a Bi-
partite Legislation Review Board con-
sisting of the director of the Civil
Administration Division, (OMGUS) and
of the president of the Governmental
Subcommission (CCG/BE).

In line with the creation of the new
Board, the OMGUS Legislation Review
Board was reorganized on April 19,
1948, with the following membership:

The director of the Civil Ad-

ministration Division, chairman; the
director of the Legal Division; the
Governmental Administration Adviser,
and a representative of the Chief of
Staff.

The chairman is responsible, under
the new organization, for effecting

appears before a denazification court in Stuttgart. He is shown con-

ferring with his attorney, Dr. Wilhelm Arnold.

17

(DENA-Bild)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
the coordination of OMGUS views on
bizonal legislation through the Legis-
lation Review Board.

The Bipartite Legislation Review
Board considers all bizonal legislation,
together with the comments of the
Bipartite Control Office on such legis-
lation, with a view to insuring:

That Military Government inter-
ference with German legislation be
kept to an absolute minimum consist-
ent with the principle of delegating
the maximum of authority to the Ger-
man Bizonal Economic Administration.

That amendment or comment recom-
mended to the Bipartite Board be
confined to matters of basic policy.

In its review of bizonal legislation
and Bipartite Control Office comments
thereon, the Bipartite Legislation
Review Board is charged with ob-
taining and coordinating the views
of the Legal Divisions and all inter-
ested functional divisions in both
headquarters, and may, if necessary,
request the attendance of represent-
atives from those divisions at its
meetings,

OO OFTEN THE Economic Coun-

cil has been inclined to make
wholesale grants of power to the
Executive without placing limitations
on these grants or including legis-
lative standards for the guidance of
the Executive in administering the
ordinances,

For this reason, one Economic Coun-
cil ordinance had to be rejected out-
right by the Bipartite Board. In an
effort to inform the Germans of what
is meant by legislative standards and
principles, the Bipartite Board issued
a special statement on this subject
for use by the German bizonal author-
ities. In a letter adressed to the
Chairman of the Bipartite Control
Office, the Bipartite Board stated:

“It seems evident to the Bipartite
Board that the German bizonal
authorities have not understood the
requirement that ordinances passed
by the Economic Council must state
legislative standards and principles,
and limitations on the power of the
Executive Directors, so that the
latter may not exercise arbitrary
powers, You are therefore requested
to forward the following explanation
to the President of the Economic

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Council and to the Executive Com-
mittee and the Executive Directors:

1. The power to adopt ordinances
may not be delegated by the Eco-
nomic Council to any other body
or authority.

2.The Economic Council in the
ordinance must itself establish the
policies, standards of legal obli-
gation, and limitations within the
scope of which the law must be
executed. It must not, by failure to
enact such standards, attempt to
transfer that function to others.

3. Adequacy of the ordinances may
be tested by the following question
—has the Economic Council laid
down a policy and established
standards by ordinance, and left to
administrative agencies only the
making of subordinate rules within
prescribed limits, and the determi-
nation of facts to which the policy
as declared by the Economic Coun-
cil is to apply?”

HE LEGISLATION Review Board

sees only those pending quadri-
partite laws which present major ques-
tions as to the necessity of national
legislation—which Control Council
enactments are—in the light of the US
policy for the maximum decentrali-

Paul's Church in Frankfurt, which
was burned badly during the war, is
being rebuilt. Here, workmen remove
a large, broken stone block. Frank-
furt Cathedral can be seen in the

background. (DENA-Bild)

18

zation of powers, They are referred
to the Board by the US member of the
quadripartite body considering the
law; the Board's recommendations are
designed to guide the position of the
US member in his future quadripartite
negotiations.

The number of such proposed laws
presented to the Legislation Review
Board has been small, Two examples
of subjects of proposed Control Coun-
cil enactments on which the Board has
recommended against national legis-
lation have been highway trans-
portation and private detective
agencies,

As Military Government supervision
over German agencies continues to
shift from numerous operating con-
trols to selected key policy controls,
the significance of legislative review
becomes more and more important.
Through this review, Military Govern-
ment can easily and effectively ob-
serve the whole pattern of economic,
social and political development as it
emerges into law and can quickly
check any developments* which are
distinctly contrary to democratic con-
cepts.

This control, which is exercised at
the top level of the various German
governmental agencies, provides Mili-
tary Government with a means of
carrying out its occupation objective

without hampering the day-to-day
activities of German administration.
During the past year Military

Government's record in the review
of legislation has been well within
announced US policy which calls for
the disapproval of German legislation
only when it conflicts with the legis-
lation or the basic policies of Military
Government.

This policy, which is essential if
democratic institutions of popular
government are to be fostered in Ger-
many, will continue to guide Military
Government -in its review of legis-
lation,

Disease Deaths Drop

Sharp reductions were registered in
February in the case and death rates
of major communicable diseases in
Berlin as compared to the same month
last year, according to provisional fig-
ures released by the Public Health
Branch, OMG Berlin Sector.

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
{Continued from page 15)

Forerunner of Nuremberg
ignored completely the promise that
the ancient liberties of towns and
inhabitants in the pledged ternitories
would be respected. He established a
regime of arbitrariness and terror that
went beyond anything that was
customary even in those rather tough
times. Life, honor, and property count-
ed for nothing: Hagenbach and his
soldiers became guilty of outrages
which did not lag behind the worst
deeds of modern totalitarian gangster-
ism, They further extended their de-
predations to Swiss merchants on
their way to and from the Frankfurt
Fair, and frequently encroached upon
rights of nearby towns and countries.

T WAS AN open secret that Charles's

ultimate ambition was the Imperial
Crown, Yet more than any other
single cause, the outrages committed
by Hagenbach contributed to bring
about what, until then, had been re-
garded as impossible—the alliance
against Burgundy of all her neigh-
bors. Austria, the Swiss Leagues and
towns, France, and the towns and
knights of the Upper Rhine, who be-
fore had all been at loggerheads with
one another, realized that they had
to make their choice: they had either
to end this tyranny, or submit
helplessly one by one to every whim
of Charles and his subordinates.

The support which the Archduke of
Austria could draw from his. allies
enabled him to offer the full amount
that was required for the redemption
of his possessions. ‘On flimsy [pretexts
Charles refused to fulfil his treaty
obligations. Meanwhile, however, the
ball had been set rolling by German
mercenaries of Hagenbach and by the
aitizens of Breisach. Together they
captured Hagenbach. Then the other
allies took the field against the Duke
of Burgundy, who was killed in the
Battle of Nancy.

The Archduke of Austnia, in whose
territory Hagenbach had been captur-
ed, ordered his trial. Whereas an
ordinary trial would have been
Conducted before local judges, it was
agreed in this case that the allied
cities, including the Swiss towns,
should delegate judges. Since, by
then, these Swiss towns had ceased

MAY 18, 1948

to form part of the Holy Roman
Empire, their participation gave an
international character to the bench
before which Hagenbach was tried. To
represent -the order of ‘knighthood
among the judges, 16 knights were
added to their number.

On May 4, 1474, thie trial took place
on the market-place of Breisach. Henry
Iselin, of Basle, acted as public pro-
secutor. Fortunately, records of his
speech and of that of counsel for the
defense were (preserved. The prosecu-
tor arraigned the accused for having
committed crimes which went far

This article was originally
published in the Manchester
Guardian (England). It was pre-
sented as an appendix to a
prosecution brief in the war
crimes trial of 21 former officials
of the German Foreign Office
and related agencies, now in
session at Nuremberg.

beyond the breach of contractual
obligations. Iselin contended that
Hagenbach's deeds outraged all no-
tions of humanity and justice, and
constituted crimes under natural law.
In the words of the prosecutor, the
accused had “trampled under foot the
laws of God anid men,” and had com-
mitted what today would be called
crimes against humanity.

ERE HAGENBACH’S crimes war

‘crimes, considering the fact that
they had been committed before the
outbreak of open hostilities between
Burgundy and the allies? It is true
that war crimes in the strict sense
of the word involve violations of the
tules of warfare. Yet it should be re-
membered that right down to the
beginning of the 19th century the
border-line. between states of peace
and war was very thin, if often it
existed at all. The hold of Burgundy
over the pledged Austrian territories
was more akin to the occupation of
enemy territory in wartime than to
a peace-time occupation of foreign
territory under treaty. Further, it may
be held that this trial offers a much-
needed precedent (in a non-technical
sense) of a case in which war crimes
fm the wider sense of the term—as
used in the Charter of the Nuremberg

19

Tribunal—have come before an inter-
national bench.

If such deeds are considered to be
amenable to international criminal
jurisdiction, such jurisdiction rests
less on the rather accidental fact of
war than on the abuse of sovereign
jurisdiction which such crimes con-
stitute. So, in the Charter of the
Nuremberg Tribunal, the jurisdiction
of the International Military Tribunal
has been made to cover crimes against
humanity whether committed “before
or during the war."

'URTHER ACCUSATIONS were

made in interrogatories; witnesses
were heard, and then Hagenbach’s ad-
vocate spoke for the accused, His
only point was one on which, ever
since, war criminals have relied—the
defense of superior orders:

“Sir Peter of Hagenbach does not
recognize any other judge and master
but the Duke of Burgundy, from whom
he had received his commission and
his orders. He had no right to question
the orders which he was charged to
carry out, and it was his duty to obey.
Is it not known that soldiers owe
absolute obedience to their superions?
Does anyone believe that the Duke's
Landvogt could have remonstrated
with his master or have refused to
carry out the Duke's orders? Had not
the Duke by his presence subsequently
confirmed and ratified’ all that had
been done in his name?”

When the accused himself addressed
the tribunal, he based his whole de-
fense on this ground.

The judges deliberated for several
hours, When judgment was pro-
nounced, the tribunal rejected the ad-
vocate’s preliminary objections to its
jurisdiction. It overmuled ‘the plea of
superior orders, found Hagenbach
guilty, and condemned him to death.

The executioner of Colmar was
chosen from among eight competitors,
and before the execution took place
a representative of the Emperer de-
prived Sir Peter of Hagenbach of his
knighthood as one who had com-
mitted all the crimes which it had
been his duty to prevent.

Finally, the Provost of Eimsisheim,
the marshal of the Tribunal, gave his
order to the executioner with the
words: “Let justice be done.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
OUTLOOK PROMISING IN WUERTT.-BADEN

Hopes for Record Progress in 1948 Are Based on Present Level
Of Production, Upward Swing in Exports, and Planting Program

(From a speech by Charles LaFol-
lette, director of OMG Wuerttemberg-
Baden, at a meeting of the German-
American Club at Heidelberg.)

HE REBUILDING of economic life,

housing, and the export program
are all vital to the future of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and of the German people.
Yet no problem is closer to all the
people than the problem of food.

The food ration has been recently
increased and is now at its highest
level since the war. It will be raised
again in May and there is a possibil-
ity that it will be further increased
during the summer. These current
increases are the result of increased
imports, If—and this is one of the
most crucial “ifs"—1948 is a good
crop year and the food is distributed
through legal channels there will be
a very substantial jump in the food
rations for the normal consumer.

I am told that, in general, the
agricultural outlook for Wuerttemberg-
Baden is encouraging. The weather
has been especially favorable; crops
planted in the fall have come through
the mild winter without serious
damages. The Agricultural Ministry
is promoting an intensive campaign
for an increased potato crop which,
if succesful, should assure a large
increase in potato cellarage for next
winter. Preliminary figures indicate
that there is an increase of approxi-
mately 10 percent in potato hectarage
planted and no decrease in grain
hectarage.

While the crop outlook is good,
the meat outlook is poor. Only a
small percentage of the livestook
being slaughtered is distributed
through legal channels.

I consider those people responsible
for the black market in food among
the worst criminals of Germany today.
They are preventing hardworking,
honest citizens from getting their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

small ration while directing large
quantities of food to those who have
the most money or goods. Such
practice is not only criminal and un-
democratic, it is unchristian.

HAVE ALWAYS been of the

opinion that next to the food
problem the critical shortage of
housing space is the most pressing
problem facing the people of Wuert-
temberg-Baden. Most building mate-
rials are heat processed. The allo-
cation of coal for the manufacture of
building materials is therefore the
most important factor in the con-
struction industry,

The coal allocation during March
was 50 percent higher than in January
and February. With a continued high
level of coal production in the Ruhr
area and the possibility of further
increased production there it is very
possible that there will be a higher
allocation during the coming months.

Two other key problems in housing
are illegal building and the shortage
of construction workers. I don't
believe that the German worker who
lives with his wife and child in one
room appreciates seeing bricks and
mortar and tiles going into souvenir
shops instead of housing.

At the present time the Wuerttem-
berg-Baden legislature is working on
a bill which will call for heavy
penalties against those responsible
for illegal building. If such a bill is
passed and is rigidly enforced it will
not only stop most of the unauthorized
building, but it will release several
thousand construction workers from
non-essential building and make them
available for housing projects.

URING THE first quarter of 1947
the Wuerttemberg-Baden econ-
omy made a very weak start. The
most bitter winter Europe had in
several decades brought the economy

Mr. Charles LaFollette, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden director (standing,
center), addresses the Heidelberg German-American Club. At the
speakers’ table are (left to right) Lt. Col. C. J. West, new Heidelberg
Military Government officer; an MG interpreter; Mr. LaFollette, and

Lt. Col. James A. Lynch, former Heidelberg MG officer.

20

(OMGWB photo)

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
to a standstill. Rivers and canals were
frozen, and only the smallest trickle
of coal came from the Ruhr. The
level of production was at a postwar
low.

In spite of that poor start last year,
the production level started spurting
in April and hit a record high in
November.

This winter, that record cold and
snow spent all its time in the United
States white Europe enjoyed one of
its mildest winters in years,

As a result of the warm weather,
the increased coal production and a
general quickening of this state's
economy today's production level is
75 percent above what it was this
time last year. Even a confirmed
pessimist would have difficulty getting
discouraged over that fact.

The theme of the 1947 export show
in Wuerttemberg-Baden was “Export
schafft Brot" (export creates bread).
It was an excellent theme. It told
in three words the purpose of the
export program,

Last year after a very weak start,
the informal quota of export contracts
in this state was surpassed by several
million dollars. This year export
contracts have been signed totaling
$19,000,000, well over half the dollar
value of 1947 contracts. This figure is
several million dollars over this year's
total export business of a well known
large German state east of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden,

ETTING GERMAN business gear-

ed to the export business after
an absence of over six years was not
and is not an easy task. Both the
Joint Export-Import Agency and the
German export officials are constantly
Striving to get the export business
back close to a normal basis. The
current boom in exports reflects the
Progress in this direction.

It is the intention of JEIA to cut
ted tape and return the German
export trade to normal operating
Procedure as soon as possible. Re-
cently, large strides have been taken
in this direction. Firms may now be
licensed to transact an unlimited
number of contracts totaling $10,000
or less,

The export bonus to the textile
and ceramic industries has been

MAY 18, 1948

Dr. H. A. Ruscheweyh signs the oath of office of chief justice of the
newly-created Bizonal High Court. Attending the ceremonies, which
took place in the War Room of Headquarters Building, Frankfurt, are

(left to right):

Dr. E. Koehler, president of the Bizonal Economic

Council; Sir Gordon Macready, UK chairman of the Bipartite Control

Office, and Mr. C. L. Adcock, US chairman of BICO,

increased to 40 percent of the dollar
value of goods produced. This means
that the firms concerned will make
their own purchases of raw material
and lay their own plans for expansion.
This is an experimental step. If it is
successful the same system will be
extended to other industries.

The rising level of production and
the progress made in the export-
import program is already paying
dividends to the ordinary consumer
in Bizonia. Ten million dollars worth
of hides are being imported into the
Bizonal area. It is estimated these
hides will provide some 10,000,000
pairs of shoes for the people of the
Bizonal Area.

During the first quarter of this year,
JEIA contracted for the importation
of $10,000,000 worth of natural
rubber. This rubber will be used to
make 1,300,000 badly needed motor
vehicle and bicycle tires.

As the level of export rises, more
foreign credits will be available for
such purchases of badly-needed ma-
terials abroad.

21

(Signal Corps)

On the basis of the present level
of production, the upward swing in
exports, and the extent of the planting
programs, 1948 promises to mark the
largest amount of progress in the
reconstruction of German economic
life since the end of the war,

'HETHER OR NOT these current

tendencies will continue is
dependent on a multitude of factors,
A repetition of last year's drought
could cripple the chances for a
substantial increase in the food ration,
The export business is strictly de-
pendent on world market conditions
which in turn are sensitive to both
political and economic conditions,

I have now been in this state since
early last December. I have found
the people here industrious, unafraid
of new ideas and, I believe, for the
most part sincerely interested in the
development of a free German de-
mocracy. I feel certain that the
people of this state will do every-
thing in their power to make 1948
the year reconstruction doubled in
intensity.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
(Continued from page 2)
Occupational Activities

to be returned to trade unions under
ACA Directive No. 50.

The Catholic and Evangelical
churches of Bavaria have distributed
an educational pamphlet entitled
“Ums Taegliche Brot’ (Our Daily
Bread) which was prepared by the
Bipartite Food and Agriculture Branch.
The pamphlet describes the sources
of food for the Bizonal Area and the
methods of distribution.

The first of a series of surplus US
Army installations, the Nuremberg
vehicle park, consisting of more than
4,000 tons of automotive equipment,
was transferred to the German
economy, according to an agreement
by the US Government and the Bi-
zonal Economic Council,

Hesse

Approximately 2,400 German edu-
cators are expected to participate in
seven field seminars concerning school
reform and other developments in
the field of vocational education, to
be held this month. The sessions are
scheduled in Kassel, Ziegenhain,
Giessen, Wetzlar, Darmstadt, Wies-
baden, and Frankfurt.

More than 79,000 Russian rubles,
6,196 US dollars, 1,624 British pounds
and a small quantity of platinum and
gold bullion and gold and silver coins
were turned in by displaced persons
living in Hesse during a foreign
assets amnesty held from April 1 to
15, OMGH Finance Division officials
revealed, Receipts were issued for
redemption when the DP can produce
written proof that he has obtained
permission to leave Germany.

The recently reorganized Jewish
Community of Frankfurt submitted
its new constitution to the Hessian
Ministry of Culture with a view to
acquiring status as a corporation of
public law in Hesse. Since annual
state subsidies to the Jewish Com-
munity in Frankfurt had been tradi-
tional, RM 30,000 were allocated for
this purpose from the Hessian budget.

An epidemic of upper respiratory
disease in Hesse passed its peak of
more than 4,500 cases in mid-April.
In the third week of the month, only
2,980 mew cases were reported, Fif-
teen deaths have been attributed to
the epidemic.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The. Swiss Consulate in Frankfurt
has been granted an MG license to
purchase a badly damaged, 23-room,
Swiss-owned house there to be used
for office space, Material to repair
the dwelling will be imported from
Switzerland.

A record-breaking 165,000 persons
visited Hesse’s six US Information
Centers during the first three months
of this year. Seventy-two thousand
books and 12,000 periodicals, also
new highs, were circulated during
the period.

Approximately 400 textbooks,
pamphlets, and teaching aids have
been received by OMGH religious
affairs officials from American do-
hors, for‘use by German committees
mapping the reform of religious in-
structions in Hessian schools. Posters,
charts, pictures, courses of study, and
teachers’ manuals have also been in-
cluded in recent shipments, which
have been sent largely by the Pro-
testant International Council of Re-
ligious Education, Chicago, and the
National Catholic Welfare Con-
ference, Washington.

Wuerttemberg-Baden

Preparations are underway to equip
all county headquarters of the Wuert-
temberg-Baden rural police with two-
way radio sets.

A total of 1,600,000 yards of tex-
tiles has been sold to French firms
by Wuerttemberg-Baden mills,

Bremen

Denmark contracted for the pur-
chase of 5,000 bicycles from Bremen
bicycle factories, Buyers in Singapore
have bought 20,000 bicycle light-
ing sets.

Berlin

During the first quarter of 1948, the
US Sector of Berlin received from
the Bizonal Area of Germany more
consumer goods and materials than
for any other quarter during the past
18 months, according to Commerce
and Industry officials of OMG Berlin
Sector, For the three-month period,
92 to 306 percent more chemicals,
lumber, motor vehicles, tires and
tubes were received than had been
originally allocated for the US Sec-
tor's population and industry by bi-
zonal authorities.

A total of 273 properties has been
released from custody of the Property

22

Control Branch, OMG Berlin Sector,
since 1945. Owners included the US
firms of Woolworth, Roth-Buechner,
Gillette, Zoellner-Werke, and Na-
tional Cash Register; Electrola and
Lindstroem, (British); Paul Firchow

and Brown, Boveri & Cie, (Swiss) and |

Muratti, (Greek).

British Military Government has
ordered top priority to labor demands.
for the rebuilding of the Berlin West.
power station in the British Sector:
The RM 40,000,000 reconstruction
plan, biggest of its kind in Germany,
was announced on April, 12.

The Berlin-Schoeneberg Information.
Center is displaying about 200 books.
on “Today's Russia.”

“No Time for Comedy,” by S.N.
Behrmann, is in rehearsal in the
British Sector of Berlin,

Joint Export-Import Agency

German importers, exporters, ship-
ping agents and chartering agents
have been authorized to charter non-
German vessels for the loading of
authorized
under a licensing procedure which
became effective May 1, the Joint
Export-Import Agency stated. Each
contract will be subject to the
approval of the JEIA.

German-made toys costing $200,000
were sold to purchasers in the United
States during March.

Allied Control Authority

The Office of the US Military
Governor announced that since there
had been no request for a meeting

import cargoes in bulk

from any of the delegations, and no’,

subject has been presented for dis-

cussion, there was no meeting of the:

Allied Control Council on April 30.
Soviet Zone

Performances of “Three Men on &
Horse," American comedy which has

been a big hit on the German stage, -

were prohibited in Leipzig by Soviet
authorities, No reason was given.

School Radios Planned

The Lorenz factory at Hanover
(British Zone) has agreed to set aside
approximately 25 percent of its pro-
duction of radios during the next
10 months in order to supply schools
in the US Zone with 5,000 school
radios,

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 26 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten said the
Italian election results represent a
triumph which will perhaps be more
decisive for the West than the historic
battles against the Turks at Vienna or
Lepanto. It said:

“Italy chose to remain Western and
Christian, It withstood a grand offen-
sive of lies from the East... Church
and State combined efforts to bring
the greatest enemies of Western cul-
ture to the polls, namely, those with-
out interest; the apathetic ones... The
Cominform has played its last demo-
cratic card. It can now only use vio-
lent or criminal methods. The world
must prepare its defenses against such
eventualities.”

The Frankfurter Neue Presse said
that the struggle for Italy has only
begun, and added:

“Democratic Italy has indeed won a
battle not only for itself but for the
world. But this does not end the
fight... The experience of the last
three decades shows that totalitari-
anism knows how to utilize defeats
as well as victories...” i

“The new Italian government will
need all its force, resolution and eco-
nomic and social skill to overcome the
explosive forces mobilized against
it... As for the new democratic Ger-
many, it can heartily rejoice with the
Italians and the same time take the
lesson to heart."

Tranquility in Berlin

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth)
said that “the stranger who does not
know Berlin and its population, and
who only sees the Berlin press, must
think that the city is a place of mad
confusion, and added:

“But he who visits Berlin these days
is amazed at the sovereign calmness
with which the Berliners face political
events... They have long since un-
derstood the tactics of the Russians.
They see themselves defending demo-
cracy and human rights at an ad-
vanced post. They face the future
placidly, knowing that not only Ger-

MAY 18, 1948

Italy’s Victory at the Polls

many but the whole of civilized Euro-
pe can confidently build upon Berlin's
love of freedom, and knowing also
that Berlin will not be abandoned.”

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg), in professing its friend-
ship for Berlin, said:

“We in southern Germany have not
always been friends of the Ber-
liners... But that has changed. Even
the least interested politically in Ba-
varia and Wuerttemberg, in Baden and
Hohenzollern, in Hesse and the Pala-
tinate, have now recognized what is
at stake in Berlin. They understand
that only a population which faces
facts unflinchingly can hold out under
all this adversity and Eastern spite-
fulness... Jakob Kaiser, Hubert
Schwennicke, Neumann, and many
others have long since grown beyond
the limits of party policians and have
achieved the stature of men who are
standing up for their convictions...

The city has won—through the atti-
tude of its people—a place in the heart
of all Germans such as it never occu-
pied before...”

Robert Botzat said in the Wiesbade-
ner Kurier:

“The West German state is about to
become a fact... The necessity is un-
deniable. The Control Coucil has fail-
ed. Events in Berlin demonstrate how
little one can count on a radical
change of Russian policy. It has be-

Editor’s Note

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board of the Informa-
tion Control Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
inform the readers among the
occupational forces of what the
Germans are writing and think-
ing, and not necessarily to give
any concurrence to their views
and opinions,

come evident that the réconstruction
of Western Germany is an essential
factor of European recuperation.
Through the Marshall Plan and the
union of western Germany, two thirds
of the German people will soon return
to the international community...

“Those who see in this development
a danger to the security of Europe
should consider that 45,000,000 non-
Communists are less dangerous than
70,000,000 persons under Communist
tule... Communism must not be
forced upon the German people, That,
at the moment, is more important than
unity.”

Schwaebische Post (Aalen) attacked
the “New Statesman and Nation” for
advocating the voluntary evacuation
of Berlin by the western powers:

“In the eyes of the overwhelming
majority of Germans, the prestige of
the western powers stands or falls
with Berlin, If the Berliners, and
especially those faithful and coura-
geous people who have fought for the
ideals of human freedom on the basis
of western democracy, were to be
deserted now, the question of ‘colla-
boration' would become a dominant
issue in the public life of the whole of
western Germany, too.”

Textiles in Storage

Stuttgarter Zeitung complained
about the failure of the Bizonal Eco-
nomic Administration to distribute
goods brought into Germany by Mili-
tary Government:

“As important as this organization
is, its reputation is as bad... Now
they (the people) are being told that
two months ago the Economic Admi-
nistration was given 27,000,000 yards
of textiles for distribution, What has
been distributed? Nothing...

“There are countless children, old
people, and returned PW’s in rags.
And in Frankfurt mountains of tex-
tiles remain undistributed... We
expect to hear from our minister
president and our delegates in the
Economic Coucil what has been done
to punish those responsible..."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Council Attacked

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) said the
Bizonal Economic Council in Frank-
furt is not a democratic inst.tution,
and accused it of “incompetence, ma-
licious indifference and political block-
headedness ..." The paper added:

“We are ready to admit that a
central distribution authority for the
western zones is unavoidable. But the
organization that has developed in
Frankfurt and formed a conspiracy
is impossible; not only impossible,
but dangerous to the public... a
mockery of all we are willing to call
democratic!

“We have only one consolation. This
Economic Council is not entitled to
pass resolutions, and to rule in the
name of the German public. It was not
elected by us! We Germans have
often been guilty, but of this Frank-
furt gang we are innocent, We'll reject
it as long as we can hope that a
rejection in the name of all strata
of the population will carry democra-
tic weight with the Anglo-American
Military Governments.”

Advice to Politicians

Frankfurter Neue Presse offered ad-
vice to the political orators:

“Leave the ‘ism’ trumpets, including
that of nationalism, at home... Such
noise leaves the people cold... and
blocks real discussion, criticism and
political decision... The issue in
these (1948) municipal elections is not
Moscow, Rome, or Bizonia. It is home
and hearth, and municipalities... that
are outside of all ideologies...

“The speakers must not indulge in
rhetoric nor flirt with demagogy. They
should be serving teachers of demo-
cracy. They should explain the mean-
ing and importance of the municipal
elections, and most of all, clear up
the deplorable ignorance concerning
local political issues... They should
do no more than to encourage dis-
cussions among the voters—an essen-
tial part of democracy—and to guide
them without trickery nor party ego-
tism.” :

Wandering Youths

‘Wiesbadener Kurier said that 20,000
to 30,000 homeless boys and girls un-
der 18 years are wandering in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

British Zone alone, and pictured the
danger involved:

“Most of them have no money.
When they do have money, it is in
enormous amounts. Ninety-nine per-
cent have no food ration cards...
In Duesseldorf last year 1,117 girls
were arrested, of whom 30 percent
had venereal disease... Those whose
duty it is to help in this situation
are not giving it the required atten-
tion.., This is an army to be feared,
and not in Germany alone.”

Finnish-Soviet Pact

Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augs-
burg) said of the Soviet-Finnish pact:

“Finland is the first example of a
nation having friendly relationship
with the Soviet Union without sacri-
ficing its political freedom... By wise
and intelligent negotiation, Finland
has managed to stay out of the strife
between East and West... We trust
that the prediction of President Paa-
sikivi (of Finland) will prove correct.
He said that ‘If Finland maintains a
democratic, Finnish policy, and culti-

An “adopted” German woman welcomes the receipt of food donated by
the Nuremberg Military Post Women's Club, as Mrs. William H. Tweedy,
chairman of the club's procurement and distribution section, looks on.

24

vates good relations with all coun-_
tries, especially its great neighbor, it”
can look with confidence to the fus_
ture.” 4

Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel) how:
ever, felt certain that the Finnish.
Soviet pact is not as harmless as it ©
appears on the surface, and added: ~

“The western European nations are ©
certain that the rest of Europe faces
once more an aggressor who is arming —
himself, They conclude that they have ~
to get together... Time is running”
short.” {

“Rhapsody in Bluff”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) call- —
ed Hollywoods’s filmed biography of ©
the late George Gershwin a “Rhap- 4
sody in Bluff and added: E

“Anyone making the round of the ;
four big Munich premiere theaters ~
will return home profoundly disturb:
ed. Through these theaters flows a
stream of plain trash. Our sympa-
thies for Hollywood are. vanishing
rapidly ...

(Signal Corps)

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 28 ---
“We have no right to demand any-
thing from the occupying powers.
But it is time to state that the Unit-
ed States and Britain are frittering
away their film reputations in Ger-
many; that they are awakening in
the audience feelings of national re-
sentement, yes, even of national su-
periority. That hardly belongs to the
program of reeducation."

Echo der Woche described "Rhap-
sody in Blue’ as "a masterpiece of
bad taste, since combining so much
bad taste on 2,500 yards of film is
no everyday performance . . . Part
of the premiere audience left the
theater before the end. Someone
shouted: ‘Why does Hollywood send
us third-grade or, like “Rhapsody in
Blue,” sixth-grade films?'”

Too Many Protests

The Wiesbadener Kurier said that
Germans in the West complain too
much about scarcities. They have for-
gotten they lost the war and they
refuse to believe reports on condi-
tions in the Soviet Zone. The paper
asserted:

“The West takes American food
imports as a matter of course .. .
The disappearance of pigs which
would have covered the meat allo-
cation for a year is permitted to pass
without comment. The city dweller
complains about the laxity of the
peasant, the peasant about the laxity of
industry, and both demand that the
occupation powers make up for it...

“Things look very different in the
East, believe it or not. There, one
does not complain about bacon not
being imported from Denmark, but
one envies the West. One cannot un-
derstand why we are dissatisfied."

Bavarians Thanked for Help

Through Dr. Hans Ehard, minister
president of Bavaria, and Lorenz
Hagen, president of the Bavarian
Trade Union Federation, Murray -D.
Van Wagoner, state director, OMG
Bavaria, has congratulated the Bava-
rian, people for their fine spirit in
sending urgently-needed material to
Berlin and the Ruhr area during 1947.

In his letter to the minister presi-
dent, director Van Wagoner said:

“The spirit of charity and economic
foresight shown by the Bavarians is
most commendable. In my opinion a
cooperative attitude such as this re-
presents another healthy stop towards
recovery. Supplying vital needs to
other parts of Germany cannot fail to
expedite the reconstruction of Bavaria
itself.”

“IT strongly recommend that those
who contributed to this shipping of
supplies to critically-short areas re-
ceive all possible consideration and
encouragement in the future and be
thanked for their efforts.”

“The economic rehabilitation of
Bavaria will depend more and more
on just such a progressive approach
as is indicated by the actions of these
individuals.”

Among the items shipped to the
Ruhr were 5,910,000 pieces of china-
ware, 662,940 pair of shoes and cloth
equivalent to 130,000 men’s suits. The
people of Berlin received cloth, news-
print, shoes, lumber, roofing and other
building materials.

Through Mr. Hagen, director Van
Wagoner complimented the workers
of Bavaria:

“I should like to be able to con-
gratulate each member of every trade

Postal Registration

Postal registration service is avail-
able on three additional classes of in-
coming international mail to Germany
effective April 1, the Communications
Group, Office of the Economics Ad-
viser, OMGUS, has announced.

The additional classes, acceptable
under quadripartite agreement, are
samples with a weight limit of 500
grams, small packets with a weight
limit of one kilogram, and commercial

MAY 18, 1948

Service Widened

papers with a weight limit of two
kilograms. These three classes sup-
plement the two, letters and postcards,
to which the registration service was
applicable when it was initially autho-
rized on Jan. 1, 1948.

All categories of postal matter
authorized in the-international mails
outgoing from Germany may be re-
gistered if registration service is
applicable.

25

union for his industriousness and
cooperative attitude. Since this is im-
possible I ask you to personally con-
vey to the trade union members
through their industrial union leader
my commendation for this excellent
achievement.”

MG Courts Try 5,535

A total of 5,535 persons came before
Military Government courts for trial
during January.

This represents a considerable re-
duction in the case-load of Military
Government courts as compared with
the preceding month, and reflects the
policy of turning over to the juris-
diction of German courts certain
categories of minor offenses against
Military Government law.

German courts in the US Zone tried
68,406 criminal cases during the
month. — Military Government Report
No. 31.

Phone System Expands

The expansion of the civil tele-
phone system continued during De-
cember, 1947, with the addition of
more than 3,200 main line telephones
and 2,400 extensions, as the total
number of telephones in service in the
US-occupied area (excluding Bremen)
rose to approximately 540,000.

An additional 29,000 main line and
12,500 extension telephones connected
to German-operated and maintained
telephone central offices are not in-
cluded in these figures. — Military
Government No. 31,

Prison Figures Drop

The prison population in the US
Zone at the beginning of January
dropped to 22,039, a decrease of more
than 5,000 from the previous month.
This decrease was largely the result
of Christmas commutations of senten-
ces proclaimed by the Military Go-
vernor and the individual state go-
vernments in the Zone.

Newspaper Circulation
As of Jan. 31 the 49 US-licensed
newspapers in Germany had a total

circulation per issue of 4,130,194
copies,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Democracy Needed in Business

A reaffirmation of the position of
OMGUS with respect to the necessity
for German business and professional
associations of a democratic character
has been expressed by Dr. E. H. Litch-
field, director of the Civil Adminis-
tration Division, OMGUS.

At the same time, OMGUS reiterated
the policy in a directive to the state
directors.

Dr. Litchfield further clarified
OMGUS' position because there had
been a number of inquiries from Ger-
man sources as to whether previous
policy directives had been abrogated
by the directive of July 15, 1947,
issued jointly by the State, War and
Navy Departments. This directive
stated that it is not the intention of
the US Government “to impose its
own historically developed forms of
democracy and social organization on
Germany.”

The July directive to the US Mili-
tary Governor said the United States
believed equally firmly that no other
external forms of government should
be imposed upon Germany. It added
that the United States “seeks the
establishment in Germany of a po-
litical organization which is derived
from the people and subject to their
control.”

The Tripartite Conference of Berlin,
concluded on Aug. 2, 1945, pledged
the Allies “to prepare for the eventual
reconstruction of German political life
on a democratic basis.” In the US
area of control, basic tenets under-
lying the occupation objectives were
defined in a Sept. 30, 1946, directive
which was issued to clarify the re-
lations between Military Government
and civil governments after the
adoption of the state constitutions,

It was said therein that “all political
power is recognized as originating
with the people and subject to their
control,” and that “Governmental
powers may not be delegated to pri-
vate or quasi-public economic bodies.”

Dr. Litchfield called attention to the
fact that it had been the German
custom to regulate business in great
detail through compulsory member-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ship in various trade associations and
chambers, to which the government
had assigned executive powers.

“Germany,” he said, “had a long
history of authoritarian controls over,
and suppression of individual rights
in the economic sphere, and of denial
of popular control dating back to the
rigid controls of the guilds in the
Middle Ages and renewed and per-
fected under the totalitarian regime.

“To the extent that regulation and
control of economic activities is nec-
essary, such control should be
exercised by a government elected by
and responsible to the people.
Singling out certain sectors of the
economy and endowing them with
special privileges would frustrate
democratic development,

“The investment of vocational as-
sociations with governmental powers
would perpetuate or create vested
interests opposed to the interests of
the people as a whole. Such action
would result in the creation of a cor-
porate structure of society that would
tend to undermine parliamentary re-
sponsibility and facilitate development
of totalitarian government.

“Vocational groups clamor for what
they call ‘self-government.’ What they
mean by this is the control of their
segment of the economy. Such groups
would not only govern their internal
affairs but would affect the life of the
community as a whole.”

““Self-government' as desired by
certain vocational groups involves:
the subjugation of all members of the

vocation to complete group control
and the establishment of rigid and
restrictive trade practices; the exer-
cise of functions which are govern-
mental in nature, such as licensing,
taxing, and allocating raw materials;
and the removal of its economic
activities from popular control.”

The directive to the state directors
said that for these reasons, and “In
the interest of the growth of popular
government and democracy in the US
area of control, the directors of the
Office of Military Government for the
states should impress upon all con-
cerned the necessity for uncompromis-
ing adherence to this policy.”

Branch Banks Approved

Effective July 1, banks with head
offices in United Nations or neutral
countries may open branch offices in
the US and British Zones of Germany.

The branch offices would operate
under licenses authorizing them to
provide banking services incidental
to foreign trade. These services
include the opening of letters of cred-
it, the negotiation of documents
covering exports and imports, and the
carrying of foreign currency accounts
for authorized persons.

The branch offices would be subject
to German as well as Military
Government laws.

Party Given License
The Bavarian Party (Bayern Partei)
has been issued a license by the po-
litical Branch, Office of Military
Government for Bavaria, to operate as
a state-wide political party.

BICO Creates Netherlands Liaison Post

An accredited representative of the
Netherlands Ministry of Traffic will
begin service with the Bipartite
Control Office on June 1 asa transport
liaison officer, the Bipartite Transport
Group has announced.

Consent to establish the post was
granted by BICO because of the in-
creased cooperation which must be
maintained between the various
national inland barge fleets in order

26

to cope with transportation shortages
in western Europe.

A Netherlands Rhine Mission has
been in existence at Duisburg for
some time, it was explained, but it
is principally an operations center for
lower Rhine navigation. The new
office at BICO level will handle major
problems of traffic policy concerning
the Bizonal Area and the Nether-
lands, Transport officials stated.

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 30 ---
Zone Photos To Be Shown in US

IFTY-THREE photographs showing

the trend of economic and educa-
tional recovery in the US Zone of
Germany have been arranged for a
tour of principal cities of the United
States, following the initial showing
in the concourse of the Pentagon
Building in Washington.

The photographs were selected from
approximately 1,100 taken by Sam
Rosenberg while he was serving as
photographic consultant to OMGUS
last year, He extensively toured the
US-occupied areas of Germany, re-
cording all phases of German life and
activities,

The exhibit, prepared for the Civil
Affairs Division, US Department of
the Army by the Adjutant General's
Amy Exhibits Section, pictorially re-
flects a cross-section of such occu-
pation activities as Germany manu-
facture for export, schools and educa-

Needy Sheltered

‘A large number of parents in Bre-
men and Bavaria requested that their
children be sent to institutions during
the winter months, and an increasing
number of applications for admittance
to the homes for the aged were made
to welfare authorities, The need of
these people inspired both public and
Private welfare agencies to focus their
efforts on a cooperative plan of action.

MAY 18, 1948

tion, displaced persons, war crimes

and denazification trials, and recon- 4”

struction of transportation and com-
munications,

Four of the photographs in the
exhibit have been printed on the
covers of the Information Bulletin,
as shown on this page. These were
furnished this publication by Mr.
Rosenberg while he was in Germany.

Monetary Agreement

The US/UK Military Governments
for Germany have been accepted as
permanent members of the Multilater-
al Monetary Compensation Agree-
ment.

The agreement is designed to
strengthen the financial, and assist
the economic, position of European
countries by restricting the need for
effecting inter-European transfers of
hard currencies by means of com-
pensating reductions in balances owed
on Governmental clearing accounts
between various European countries.

Other permanent members of the
Agreement are France, Italy, the
Netherlands, Belgium and Luxem-
bourg. Occasional members are the
United Kingdom, Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, Greece, Portugal, and the
French Zone of Germany.

The adhering countries report each
month the balances on their clearing

27

accounts with central banks in the
other member countries to the Bank
for International Settlement (BIS) in
Basle, which work out series of
transactions bringing about com-
pensating reductions in the balances.
Any reductions in balances between
permanent adherents are obligatory.

Juice for Children

A total of 12,000,000 gallons of
grapefruit juice from the United
States will be distributed shortly to
bizonal hospitals, workers canteens
and for the Bizonal Area Child
Feeding Program, the Bipartite Food,
Agriculture and Forestry Group has
announced.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Quadripartite Rupture in Berlin

The action which caused the open
rupture in the regular functioning of
the Allied Control Authority was de-
tailed in the March Report of the
Military Governor. The account is
published herewith in full.

UADRIPARTITE activity in the
Q Control Council, in the Coordi-
nating Committee, and in practically
all other agencies of the Allied Con-
trol Authority (ACA) came to a com-
plete halt on March 20. At the meet-
ing of the Control Council held on
this day the Soviet Delegation, which
was in the chair, arbitrarily declared
the meeting “closed.”

The Allied Secretariat had prepared
no papers for the meeting in question,
and it was convened at the express
request of the Soviet Delegation,
which then raised two matters.

The first of these concerned the
resolutions of the Prague Conference
of the Foreign Ministers of Poland,
Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia.

The US Delegation pointed out that
it would be extremely inappropriate
for it to discuss the document, inas-
much as the US Government had al-
ready advised the Governments con-
cerned that a discussion of the reso-
lutions would be useless as the latter
were based on complete distortions
of fact.

The British and French Delegations
also indicated that the matter raised
by the Soviet Delegation was at gov-
ernmental level, and therefore not
within the competence of the Control
Council.

The Soviet Delegation then referred
to a number of specific questions con-
cerning Germany which were raised
in the Prague resolutions. The US
Delegation pointed out that there
existed a normal prescribed procedure
for placing such questions upon the
agenda of the Control Council, and
that the US Delegation had never
refused to participate in constructive
attempts to resolve those questions
on a quadripartite basis. The Soviet

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Delegation withdrew the item from
discussion.
HE SECOND question raised by
the Soviet Delegation concerned
the meeting in London of the rep-
resentatives of the US, British, and
French Governments from Feb. 23 to

An analysis of Allied Control
Council actions shows that since’
its inception there have been 96
cases in which one power has
exercised its veto against the
other three. 69 of these vetoes,
or 73 percent of the total, have
been exercised by the Soviet de-
legate. The United States has
blocked four-power action on
only 12 occasions; France 13
times, and Great Britain twice.

Soviet Military Government
released a chart on March 26 to
show the increasing inability of
the Control Council to reach
agreement. In view of this chatt,
the facts developed by analy-
sis are interesting.

ANALYSIS OF DISAGREEMENTS
BY ELEMENT

lee! seleselesel#

. |SOs/BOEIPSE PSE Sze
Yer |F ee) Se8 pod) moa as
gc eet Betis

&, =
[Pe <aladelede)2 5
i-2] | See
1945 s | 0 1/ 3/2
Jan | |
June | 10 0 o} 4 1
1946 | |
July- |
Dee. 14 4] 1 4 1
1946 |
Jan.~ i | i
June 6 4 0 2 4
1947
July- |
Dee. 16 1 0 2 4
1947 | |
Jan.- i |
March | 15 3 0 1/2
1948 | | |
Total | 69 | 12 | 2 | 13°) 44

March 6. The Soviet Delegation de-
manded that the decisions reached at
this meeting be reported to the Con-
trol Council.

The US Delegation stated that there
had been an exchange of notes be-
tween the US and Soviet Governments

28

concerning this meeting, that those
notes had been made public, and that
there was, therefore, no need to refer
to them in the Control Council.

Moreover, since the London meet-
Ing had not resulted in any direc-
tives to Zone Commanders, the US
Delegation had nothing to report to the
Control Council.

The British and French Delegations
pointed out that the question raised
by the Soviet Delegation was still a
matter of governmental discussion
and could not, therefore, be consid-
ered at the present time in the Con-
trol Council.

The Soviet Delegation thereupon
accused the other delegations of violat-
ing the agreements for the qua-
dripartite control of Germany and
stated that since they refused to report
to the Control Council on the London
conference of the representatives of
the US, Great Britain, and France,
there was “no sense in continuing
the present meeting,” which it de-
clared closed without first having
obtained the assent of the other three
delegations. The Soviet Delegation
then withdrew from the Council
chamber.

Following upon this unprecedented
step, the three other delegations
agreed that the chairman had abused
his powers and had wrongfully closed
the meeting. The US Delegation was
temporarily elected to the chairman-
ship and on its motion the meeting
was officially closed.

The Soviet Delegation subsequently
requested postponement of the Coor-
dinating Committe meeting schedul-
ed for March 23, stated that it would
not attend already scheduled meet-
ings of most other ACA agencies
and indicated a desire to attend
meetings of such bodies as the Cur-
rency Printing Committee and the
Insurance Committee.

The restriction of meetings only to
those agencies selected by the Soviet
Delegation was unacceptable to the
US Delegation, which stated that in
view of the action taken by the Soviet
Delegation at the meeting of the Con-

(Continued on Page 31)

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 32 ---
Allied Personnel on ACA Bodies

Following is the latest available list of the representatives of the British, French and Soviet Delegations on the
Allied Control Authority and various quadripartite bodies. The list is as of April 1, shortly’ after the suspension of
the regular meetings of the Control Council and many of its groups. The list of the US representives was carried in

the Key MG Personnel, published March 23 in issue No. 133 of the Information Bulletin.

Control Council

Coordinating Committee

Allied Secretariat

Combined Services Directorate

Military Committee
Air Committee

Meteorology Committee

Naval Committee
German Hydrographic Institute
Subcommittee

Economics Directorate
Industry Committee
Chemical Subcommittee
Alcohol Working Party
Pharmaceuticals Working Party
Dyestuffs Working Party
Plastics Working Party
Coal Tar Working Party
List CC (Coal Tar) Working Party
List CB Organic Working Party
List CB Inorganic Working Party
List A (Basic Chemicals) Working
Party
List. CA (Miscellaneous) Working
Party
Radio-Active Working Party
Soap Working Party
Rubber Working Party
Insecticides Working Party
Building Industries Subcommittee
Machinery an Optics Subcommittee
Metals Subcommittee (Ferrous)
Metals Subcommitee (Nonferous)
Textiles and Consumer Goods
Subcommittee
Fuel Committee
Electricity and Gas Subcommittee
Oil Subcommittee
Coal Subcommittee

Food and Agriculture Committee
Forestry Subcommittee

Veterinary Subcommittee
Education and Research Subcommittee
General Working Party
Quarantine Working Party
Livestode Working Party
Field Crops Working Party
Fisheries Working Party
Committee for Liquidatioa of German
War Potential
War Plants Bureau

Trade and Commerce Committee

Export-Import Subcommittee

Interzonal Trade Subcommittee
Consumer Cooperative Working

arty
Rationing Subcommittee

MAY 18, 1948

British
Gen. Sir Brian Robertson
Maj. Gen. W. C. D. Brownjohn
Mr. Raw
Maj. Gen. V. S. E, Westropp
Air Comdr. R. N. Waite
Brig. A. G. V. Paley

Lt. Col, W. N. D. Barlow
Air Comdr. R. N. Waite

Capt. C. Simpson

Mr. Mowat

Col. Barnard
Mr. Widcham

French
Gen. Pierre Koenig
Maj. Gen. Roger Noiret

Soviet
Marshal V. D. Sokolovsky

Lt. Gen. M. I. Dratvin

Lt. Col. Glain Lt. Col. Kostenko

Maj. Gen. R. Dromard Maj. Gen. A. B. Barinov
Col, K. Meyer Maj. Gen. G. A. Sokolov
Col, K. Meyer Maj. Gen. G. A. Sokolov
Col. J. Batistellz Maj. Gen. Alexandrov
M. G. Valade Maj. Kazokov

Comdr. Serin Capt. G. B. Yurin

Lt. Comdr, de Froissard-Broissia Capt. Alexeev

Mr. Humbert Gen. Rudenko

Mr. Sauve Mr, Alexandrov

Mr. Audoyer Mr. Kalinin

(The members \sted immediately below currently attend the various Working Party meetings of
the Chemical Subcommittee listed opposite)

Mr. Widcham
Mr. Kennaby
Mr. Collins

Mr Hinkley
Mr, Barraclough

Mr. Wood
Mr. Jump
Mr. Dawson
Mr. Hoos
Mr. Small

Mr. Preston
Mr. Black
‘Mr. Piveline
Mr. Preston

Mr. H. Elder

Mr. J. Proskie
Mr. J, Rumney
Mr. E. Benskin
Mr. C, Heane

Mr. E. Holliday
Mr. J. Schofield
Mr. J. Proskie
Mr. E, Forster

Mr. E. Holliday
Mr. E. Holliday
Mr. E. Holliday
Mr. C. Bailey
Brig. N. A. Blandford-Newson
Col, H. F, Bamard
Mr, E. R. Owen

Mr. S. W. Griffin

Mr. R. H. King

Mr. A. E. Dowden

Mr. C. B. Dyson

Air Comdr. J. F. Coleman
Mr. J. F. H. Sconce
Mr. R. H. King

Mr. W. S, Easterbrook
Mr. J. A. N, McEwan
Mr. G. S. H. Fry

Mr. G. Payne

Mr. A. , Stewart

Mr. E, G, Scrivener
Mr. C. H, L. Venn

Mr. E. G. Scrivener

Mr. Audover
Mr. Billet

Mr, Alazard
Mr. D’Ardenne

Mr. Delune

Mr. Elwell

Mr. Colmerauer
Mr. Colmerauer
Cat. Rose

Mr. Tezenas du Montcel
Mr, Gamelin

Mr. Duret

Mr. LeBars

Mr. Legrand

Mr. Jussiaux

Mr. Collet

Mr. Rodary

Mr. Suzeau
Mr. Rodary

Mr. Collot

Mr. Sonntag

Mr. Collot

Mr. Burds

Mr. Collot

Mr. Burd

Eng. Gen. E. Paszkiewicz

Principal Eng. (Major)
Georges Gras

Mr. C. R, Tiers

Mr. A. Abelson

Mr. A. Blanche

Mr. Y. Gandilhon

Mr. C, Laurent

Mr. J. G. Schmalzer
Mr. C, R. Tiers

Mr. A. Trochard
Mr. A. Abelson
Mr. G. J. Lamboi
Mr, A. Abelson

Mr. Kalinin
Mr. Tjurin
Mr. Gavrilev

Mr. Korelev

Mr. Gouvriev

Mr. Kurmashev
Mr. Kouranov

Mr. Horoshillin
Mr. Kutcherov

Mr. Melkumov
Mr, A. Kabanov
Mr. L, Korbut

Mr, A. Malinowski

Mr. D. Lysov
Mr. K. Diakonov

Mr. G. Kotov.
Mr. N. Terentiev

Mr. A. Karpenko
Mr. S. Korolev
Mr, V. A. Zamaraev

Mr. S. S. Kutukov

Mr. A. A. Shumilin
Mr. I. T. Drofa
Mr. A. N. Kucherenko

Mr. Z. B. Libenson
Mr. S. A. Pomanski

Mr. S. A. Pomansky
Mr. Z. B. Libenson
Mr. S. P. Pedugin
Mr. N. I. Strogov
Mr. A. A. Shumilin
Mr. N. I. Strogov

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Price Control Committee

Central German Administrative Depart-
ments (Economic) Committee (Inactive)
I. G. Farben Control Committee
Decartelization Working Party

Finance Directorate ‘

Banking Committee

Committee for Balancing Foreign Accounts
Currency Printing Committee

Public Finance Committee

Taxation Committee

Property Control Committee

Committee for Financing Occupation Costs
Insurance Committee

Price Policy Committee

Financial Regulations Committee

Internal Affairs and Communications
Directorate

Civil Administration Committee

Census Registration Working Party
Intelligence Committee

Public Safety Committee

Education Committee

Welfare Committee

Public Health Committee

Allied Communications and Posts
Committee
Communications Subcommittee
Lines Working Party

Radio Working Party
Postal Subcomittee

Stamps Working Party
Organization and Finance Subcommittee
Accounting Working Party
Religious Affairs Committee

Legal Directorate

Legislative Drafting Committee

Committee for the Reform of German Law
Committee for the Revision of the Criminal
Code

Industrial Property Committee

Permanent Commission on CROWCASS

Manpower Directorate
Housing Committee

Wages Committee

Social Insurance Committce
Trade Unions Committee
Labor Supply Committee

Political Directorate
Information Committee

Press Working Party

Publications Working Party

Broadcasting Working Party

Films Working Party

Theater and Music Working Party
Prisoners of War an Diplaced Persons
Directorate

Combined Repatriation Executive
Committee (CRX)
Central Tracing Policy Board

Reparations, Deliveries and Restitution
Directorate

Restitution Procedures Committee
Committee for Reciprocal Deliveries
Reparations, Procedure and Valuations
Committee

Transport Directorate
Highways and Highway Transport
Commitiee
Railways Committee

Rail Tariff Subcommittee

Rail Mechanical Subcommittee
Inland Waterway Transport Committee

Ports and Coastal Shipping Committee
Movements Working Party

INFORMATION BULLETIN

British

M. G. A. Thompson
Mr. S. W. Griffin

E. L. D. Fowles
Brig. C. C. Oxborrow

Sir Eric Coates
Mr. Anderson
Mr. Holgate

Mr. Oglander
Mr, Robertson
Lt. Col. Clive
Mr. Copeman
Mr. Parker

Mr. Soane-Sands

Mr. Cook
Mr. Marreco

Colonel Hall

Mr. Cox

Brig. Gen. Stawell
Mr. Nottingham.
Mr. R. V, Hume
Mr. Watkins

Dr. Ryan

Mr. C. A. Beer
Mr. L. G. Semple
Mr. H. O. Ellis
Mr. Nichols

Mr. Parker

Mr. W. C. Chalk
Mr. R. E. Roberts
Mr. S. H. Head

Mr. W. Perkins

Mr. R. P, Humphrey
Mr, J. E. McLinden
Mr. Macassey

Mr. N. L. C. Macaskie
Mr. T. H. de Pereira
Mr. M. F. Herchenroder

Mr, Neuman
Mr. Neuman

Mr. Monroe

Mr. N. Wylie

Mr. R. W. Luce

Mr. A. Whitfield

Mr. J. Foulds

Mr. T. J. Beatty

Mr. E. Barber

Mr. T. B. Williamson
Mr. Hilary Young

Mr. Raymond Gauntlet
Mr. Nicholas Huijsman
Mr. Huijsman

Mr. Kirkness

Mr. Wallich

Mr. Haig

Mr. Bartlett

Mr. A. G. Kenchington
Mr. David Logan-Gray
Mr. Eltringham

Mr. Chadwick Lee
Mr. G. S. Whitham

Brig. C. F. Spedding
Mr. E. A. Salmon
Mr. E. A. Salmon

Mr. Cahill

Mr. L, B. Hutchinson
Mr. C. G. W. Gordon
Mr. G. B. Thomson
Mr. C. L. S. Dibbon
Mr. A. K. Southern
Mr. L. Mates

Mr. P. L. Bailey
Mr. J. Rush

French

Mr. J. Doll
Mr. J. Y. Maurin
Mr. A. Pavillard

Mr. J. de Souchier
Mr. L, Savereau

Mr. Leroy Beaulieu
Mr. Davost
Mr. LeFort
Mr. Glowacki
Mr. Pravaz
Mr. Davost
Mr. Davost
Mr. Lirman
Mr. Davost
Mr. Bonnet
Mr. Bonnet
Mr. LeFort

Mr, le Prefet Hontebeyrie

Mr. Besson

Mr. Besson
Col. Serre
Mr. Delechaux
Mr. E. Hepp
Dr. Dormoy
Dr. Dormoy

Mr, Ernest Pruvost
Mr. R. Pages

Mr. A. Rousselet
Mr. R. F, Audin
Mr. A. Rousselet
M1: R. F. Audin
Mr, A. Rousselet
Mr. F, Burtz

Mr. G. Leurquin

Mr. F. Burtz

Mr. G. Leurquin

Mr. de Beaumarchais

Mr. H. Lebegue

Mr. J. B. Colombies
Mr. A. Cuny
Mr. Metz

Mr. Ph, Comte
Mr. Sindig

Chief Eng. Roland Ziegel
Mr, J. E. Delune

Mr. E. Roeder

Mr. L. Martin

Mr. W. Schwartz

Mr. S. Hurwiez

Mr, Jacques de Beaumarchais
Mr. A. Sildert

Mr. Hemmi
Mr. Hemmi
Mr. Ponnell
Mr. Hemmi
Mr. Stedel

Mr. Leon de Rosen
Mr. Jacques Meillon
Mr. Viel

Mr, Jacques Meillon
Mr. G. C. Glasser

Mr. Charles Hinstin
Maj. L. Gerat
Maj. L. Gerat

Mr. Le Vert
Mr R. L. Bonnier

Mr. M. Menge
Mr. 2. Baldie
Mr. R. Baldie

Mr. B. Arsen
Lt. Collett
Mr. X. Kerheul

Mr. Gada
Mr. M. Mange

Soviet
Mr.L.Ghin .
Mr. N. A. Grozdov
Mr. M. D. Spitzky
Mr. B, Y. Zlotin

Lt. Col. P. Alexeev
Col. A. Bayar

Mr. Maletin
Mr, Sitnine
Mr. Gorohov
Mr. Sliosberg
Mr. Berlovitch
Mr. Moshkin
Mr. Dubrowsky
Mr. Butkov
Maj. Dec&lebaum
Mr. Kostov

Mr. Ghin

Mr. Gorohov

Maj. Gen. Malkov

Col. Shkvarin

Mr. Soldatov

Mr. Yegoshin
Capt. Patoka

Col. Shkvarin

Mr. P. Zolotukhin
Mr. Davidov

Col. Sokolov:

Col. Firsov

Maj. Gen. Semenihin
Gen. Borzov

Maj. Kisley

Maj. Lugovskoi

Col. Scriabin

Lt. Col. N. F. Gilev
Maj. Cherneausky
Maj. N. Pashin
Col. Rostokin

Lt. Tikhonov

Maj. Vassiljev
Mr, Y. Karasev
Col. Boukanov

Lt. Col, Dozenko
Lt. Col. Dozenko
(Previousy Lt. Col. Lyssiak)

Lt. Col. Jeroma
Lt. Col. Jeroma

Mr. Motenov

Mr. Pavlinov

Mr. N. Serov

Mt. N. Kostitsin
Mr. Koulinsky
Mr. Shaposhnikov

Mr. Maximov

Col. S. I. Tulpanov
Lt. Col. V. Zdorov
Lt. Col. Koltypan
Lt. Col. Koltypan
Maj. Mulim

Capt. Barsky
Capt. Barsky

Maj. Gen. M. Yourkin
Lt. Col. Balakin

Maj. Lepsky
Maj. Gen. L. I. Zorin
Lt. Col. G. N. Gulaev

Capt. N. Y. Dolgonenko
Maj. N. L. Listvin

Maj. Gen. P. A. Kvashnin
Gen. M. B. Oleknovich

Col. M. D. Popov

Dir. Gen. V. M. Voievoudsky

Lt. Col. A. A. Netchitailo
Dir. Col. Vorabjev

Dir. Col. Morrosov

Maj. P. P. Mikulin

Maj. Postnikov

Mr. Soloviev

Maj. Postnikov

Col. Dir. Izcovitch

MAY 18, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
German External Property Commission
Berlin Kommandatura

Judge Richard H. Parker
Maj. Gen. Herbert

British ~ French

Mr. William Bonnet
Brig. Gen, Geneval

Brig. Benson Col. Le Bideau

Chief of Staff Lt. Col. Oborn Col. D’Arnoux

Assistant Chief of Staff Maj. Colley Maj. Gaugain

Assistant Chief of Staff Miss E. Wyndham Mr. de Montcalm
Building and Housing Committee Mr. Coccland Mr, Gautier
Cultural Affairs Committee Mr. Bell Mr. Beauquey
Economics Committee Mr Dunworth Mr. Dauve
Education and Religious Affairs Committee Mr. Duder Mr. Merigon
Finance Committee Mr. Courtis Mr. Didio
Food Committee Mr. Razzell Mr. Benoit
Fuel Supply Committee Mr. Harker Mr. Dufour
Labor Committee Mr. Mathers Mr. Post

Mr. Foggon Mr. Gotte

Legal Committee Mr. Treasure Mr. Imbert
Local Government Committee Mr. Hayes Mr. Beauquey
Personnel and Denazification Committee Mr. McGill Mr. Barrier
Post, Telephone, and Telegraph Committee Mr. Rowe Mr. Tatz
Property Control Committee Mr. Edney Mr. Chanbon
Public Health Committee Dr. Jordan Mr. Freuche
Public Safety Committee Mr. Holmes Mr. Griscelli
Public Utilities Committee Mr. Perks Mr. de Waroquier
Transportation Committee Mr, Clarke Mr, Dufour
Welfare and Refugees Committee Miss Thompson Mr. Dignes

Soviet

Prof. Butkov
Maj. Gen. Kotikov
Col. Yelizarov
Lt. Col. Sudakov
Lt. Col. Kalinen
Capt. Sokolov
Mr. Gromov

Mr. Auslander
Mr. Egorov

Mr. Shabalov
Mr. Rubanisty
Mr. Gubish

Mr. Sewald

Mr. Tarasenko

Mr. Paskevich
Mr. Demidov

Mr. Kirilenko
Mr, Stabrov

Mr. Rubanisty
Mr. Pigariess

Mr. Belov

Mr. Maslenikov
Mr. Bodkolzin
Mr. Sinelnichenko

(Continued from page 28)

Quadripartite Rupture

trol Council of March 20, there was
no reason for holding meetings
of any other Allied Control
Authority bodies until another meet-
ing of the Control Council was called.

The US Delegation, therefore, stated
that it would not send representa-
tives to any of the meetings already
scheduled, It was understood, how-
ever, that this did not apply to the
Allied Kommandatura or the Allied
Secretariat. The British and Freach
Delegations sent similar communi-
cations to the Soviet Delegation.

Thus, with the exception of the
Allied Kommandatura and the Allied
Secretariat, no quadripartite bodies
have met during the latter part of
the month. The Soviet Delegation,
whose chairmanship continued to the
end of March, did not call a regular

meeting of the Control Council for
March 30,

Return of Specimens Asked

The Smithsonian Institution of
Washington is endeavoring to obtain
for return to their American owners
certain botanical specimens which
were loaned to German museums
before the war. These specimens
have been prepared for shipment
from Munich, Stuttgart, and Berlin. —
Military Government Report No. 31.

MAY 18, 1948

American and German hunters stand over two wild boar which they
Killed near Hofheim, north of Schweinfurt, in Bavaria. Five hundred

Germans were permitted recently to

considerable damage to Bavaria crops.

hunt wild boar, which have caused
(DENA-Bild)

MG Backs Wage Negotiations

US Military Government has con-
sistently supported the principle that
within the framework of the Allied
Control Authority, wage  stabi-
lization policy wages should be de-
termined by negotiations between the
trade unions and employers or employ-
ers associations, rather than by
compulsory legislation, which would
endanger the freedom and independ-
ence of trade unions.

Collective bargaining has been
encouraged through the inauguration

31

of employers’ representations, whose
formation was facilitated by US Mili-
tary Government clarification of the
conditions under which such asso-
ciations might be established.

To date, numerous collective agree-
ments have been concluded in the US
Zone on annual vacations and on ad-
justments in the wages of women and
minors, although the trade unions
have not yet taken full advantage of
opportunities under the ACA directive.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Trade Union Council
Sees Peace in ERP

The Bizonal Trade Union Council
has welcomed the European Recovery
Program (ERP) as a means for achiev-
ing European reconstruction and the
democratization of peoples, as well as
the creation of an enduring peace-for
which the best guarantees are declar-
ed to be friendly economic cooper-
ation among all European nations,
and the political and economic unifi-
cation of Germany.

Deploring the purported formation
of a political and economic bloc of
eastern European countries into which
the Soviet Zone is being drawn, the
Council expressed its hope that non-
participating nations would eventually
join in the ERP.

With regard to the form which eco-
nomic cooperation should assume
under the ERP, the Council recom-
mended that the trade unions, as the
representatives of the working popu-
lation, should be permitted an active
role in the determination of policy.

Relief Cases Drop

The number of German civilians
receiving public assistance throughout
the US-occupied area during January,
swas 1,231,333.

This figure represents 35,322 fewer
persons than had received assistance
during December, 1947, and 45,525
fewer than during November, 1947.

Although relatively little change
occurs each month, the steady decline
of persons requiring financial help
since May, 1947, indicates the gradual
increase of opportunities for self-
maintenance for low-income families.

Social insurance benefits and in-
creased employment opportunities
continue to be the major factors
contributing to the decrease of relief
rolls,

Relief expenditures for January
amounted to RM 32,735,747, a reduc-
tion of 2,419,357 marks from the
preceding months. — Military Govern-
ment Report No. 32.

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Supplement to US Army Signal
Corps CATALOG dated September
1947, Supplement No. 1, January 1948.

Maintenance Memorandum No. 3, Hq
EUCOM, 1 March 1948. Section I-Gen-
eral; Section II-Ordnance; Section
IlI-Engineer; Section IV-Signal and
Section V-Quartermaster.

Changes No. 2, Movement and Doc-
umentation of Supplies in the Euro-
pean Command, Hq EUCOM, 18 March
1948. Gives substitutions for EUCOM-
SOP 24, 22 December 1947.

Index to Circulars, Hq EUCOM,
1 April 1948, Section I-Yearly Numer-
ical Index and Section II-Alpha-
betical Subject Index.

Identification Symbols, AG 312.
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 9 April 1948. Gives
substitutions for EUCOM letter,
1 April 1948,

Circular No. 35, Hq EUCOM, 17 April
1948. Section I-Disposition of Records;
Section II-European Command Ex-
change System Ration Cards and Sec-
tion III-Rescissions,

Ammunition Allowance for Train-
ing of Units in Secondary Missions,
AG 353 GOT-AGO, 13 April 1948.
Prescribes the correct allowances.

Downgrading of Certain Joint Chiefs
of Staff Papers, AG 380.01 (AG),
OMGUS, 13 April 1948.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests INT 28-3 and L 30-6, AG 014.1
(SG), OMGUS, 13 April 1948. Con-
cerns the following: INT 28-3 Proposal
for Financial Adjustment of Occu-
pation Costs between the US Zone
Laender and the Main Administration
of the Railroads and L 30-6 Relaxation
of Wage Freezing Regulations.

General Orders No. 15, OMGUS,
17, April 1948. Rescinds OMGUS
General Order No. 61, 26 July 1947
and outlines re-organization of the
OMGUS Legislation Review Board.

Legal Position of British Civilians in
US Zone of Germany, AG 015 Mil.
Govt. Courts (LD), OMGUS, 19 April
1948, Outlines the status of such
people and -their privileges.

Military Justice, G. O, No. 36, Hq
EUCOM, 22 April 1948.

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters,

Circular No. 36, Hq EUCOM, 23 April
1948. Section I-Tables of Clothing and
Equipment Allowances for the Euro-
pean Command; Section II-Elimination
of Undesirable and Surplus Personnel
and Section III-Amendment.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quest D 58-6, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
27 April 1948. This letter concerns
D 58-6 Supervision of Depots Trans-
ferred to STEG for Distribution of
Their Stocks.

Transfer of the Meteorological
Branch, Staff Memorandum No. 26,
OMGUS, 28 April 1948, Concerns the
transfer 4 May 1948 of the Meteoro-
logical Branch of the Armed Forces
Division from Berlin to Bad Kissingen.

Transportation of Alien Dependents
to the ZI, AG 292, OMGUS, 28 April
1948,

Establishement of Civil Aviation
Field Office, Staff Memorandum No. 21,
OMGUS, 29 April 1948. Refers to the
transfer of the Civil Aviation Branch,
Armed Forces Division from Berlin to
Wiesbaden.

OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quest D 58-3, AG 014.1 (SG), OMGUS,
1 May 1948. D 58-3 concerns Issuance
of Instructions by Members of the
Board of Directors of the Deutsche
Bau- und Bodenbank AG.

Red Paper Penalized

The Information Gazette of the
Hessian Communist Party, normally
printed four times per month, was
limited to two issues in March for
violating quadripartite and US Mil-
tary Government regulations. The
paper distorted facts in articles so
as to make the German people doubt
the motives of the United States and
to cause distrust and hostility toward ,
America.

DEUTSCHER VERLAG