--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

CAMERA-MAKING—This youthful
employee is making adjustments on
part of a camera in the assembly
room of the Linhof camera factory.
The manufacture of cameras is an im-
portant part of the Joint Export-Im-
port Agency's program to enable the

Bizonal Area to pay for its imports.
An article on the operations of JEIA
appears on page 8 of this issue.

(Photo by Al Byers, JEIA)

The Information Bulletin is a bi-
weekly publication of the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US).
It is a popular-styled medium for dis-
semination of authoritative information
concerning policies, regulations, in-
structions, operations, and activities TABLE OF CONTENTS
of Military Government and affiliated
organizations to the occupational per-
sonnel in Europe and to public-interest Issue No, 137 June 15, 1948
organizations in the United States. The
Information Bulletin is distributed

without charge as a public service. Occupational Activities . 2
The editorial staff of the Information Berlin's Trade Union Fight . 3
Bulletin is a section of the Reports The Press on Display . 6
8

Branch, Control Office, OMGUS. Mem-
bers of the staff are: H. Warner Waid, How JEIA Works .
editor; Henry S. Matteo, assistant JEIA Blacklists 240 Foreign Firms. . . 1... . 13
editor; Val Green Bowman, writer;

POtatO D1iVe’ DIINWs ROSUIS. 60.6) 6). Aleisha pO
Catherine Mary Sullivan, reporter. Its ‘
office is located in Directors Building, Command Rost Experimentis tiarmtil wagive $0) gated
rooms 0043-0047, OMGUS Headquar- MAICOTIA NODMUOR Soi ire mart aia inn Seen eRe
ters, Berlin-Dahlem. Its mailing address The Milan Fair and German Exhibits. . . . . . 25

is: Information Bulletin, Control Office
OMGUS, Berlin, Germany; APO 742, jaye este AST I a RRS IN I TaN La Sk
US Army. Telephone numbers are
Berlin 42252, 42923, 42227.
Essential credit is noted with each
article and photograph. The art work
is prepared by the Graphics Branch
of the Control Office. Printing and
distribution are handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS. Reprint of any ar-
ticle, unless specifically noted, is per-
mitted with credit to the Information
Bulletin and the author or source OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)

cited with the article. CONTROL OFFICE, APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
A shipment of 54 German art ob-
jects, taken to the United States for
safe keeping shortly after the war,
arrived in Bremerhaven recently and
was forwarded to Munich for ex-
hibition.

The US Zone deadline for filing
reports of property confiscated from
persecuted persons during the Nazi
regime and subject to restitution
under MG Law No. 59 has been ex-
tended three months to Aug. 15,
the Property Division, OMGUS, an-
nounced.

Telegraph and long distance tele-
phone traffic, two to five times as
heavy as in 1937, is being handled
with drastically reduced facilities and
only 10 percent more personnel by
the Reichspost in the US-occupied
area of Germany, excluding Land
Bremen but including the US Sector
of Berlin, according to Reichspost
statistics released by Communications
Group, Office of the Economics Ad-
viser, OMGUS.

Licensing of German fraternal and
civic organizations by American Miili-
tary Government is being abandoned,
and in the future only investigative
authority will be exercised. Public
Safety Branch, Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, will retain the
right to investigate any group
suspected of subversive activities.

Bipartite-Bizonal

Fertilizer distribution in the first
10 months of the current crop year
totaled 188,600 tons of nitrogen,
161,900 tons of phosphate and 328,000
tons of potash, as compared with
123,300 tons, 91,600 tons, and 207,100
tons, respectively, for the same period
in 1946-47, Distribution to date re-
presented 59.9, 52.3 and 67.7 percent

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of the respective requirements for the
1947-48 crop year.

The ration call-up—i,563 calories
daily—for the normal consumer equal-
ed approximately the nominal ration
for the first time since March, 1947.

To prevent spoilage, 5,000 tons of
fresh fish from an unexpectedly large
German catch were distributed on the
ration in May. This raised the May
fish ration from 600 to 750 grams for
most persons above the age of three
years in the Bizonal Area.

Grapefruit juice concentrate with
a gross weight of 2,310 metric tons
arrived in mid-May from the United
States. This was allocated as follows:
653 tons for child-feeding in the
Bizonal Area, 1,329 tons for miners
in the Ruhr, 57 tons for Berlin and
271 tons for hospitals in North Rhine/
Westphalia.

Grain deliveries from German farms
between July 1, 1947, and April 31,
1948, totaled 1,881,000 tons, or 87.5
percent of the quota for the crop
year. Potato deliveries for the same
period were 3,720,900 tons, or 70.6
percent of the quota.

The number of employees of the
bizonal agencies as of April 30 totaled
760,751, including 3,940 employed in
headquarters departments, 514,719 on
the railroads and 223,838 in the com-
munications services.

The section on Occupational
Activities is compiled from the
Semimonthly Report of Military
Government No. 91, official an-
nouncements by MG and aiffiliat-
ed organizations, ICD’s News oi
Germany, and public information
offices throughout the US Zone,
to give a summary of develop-
ments throughout the occupied
area of Germany.

Shortages of materials for repairin cH
street cars have become critical. In _
addition, 74percent of trolley trackage —
needs replacement. Arrangements a:
virtually complete, however, for
repair of German trolley cars in Ag
Belgium.

The Soviet authorities announced i
May 20 that all crafts must poss
a new green permit in order to mo’
into the Soviet Zone. The bizonal —
Inland Waterways Travel So

subsequently informed the Sovie
authorities that Soviet Zone cri
seeking to enter the Bizonal Area _
must have their permits stamped in
Hamburg prior to movement, as long
as the Soviet restrictions on the move- _
ment of bizonal craft continue.
German ships have been engaged
to move about 65,000 tons of the
100,000 tons of iron ore awaiting ship-
ment from Sweden. F
Coal-mining explosives which were —
available for purchase in Belgium —
were found unsuitable for German ~
mines. Although no mines have been —

shortage remained serious.

Newsprint production rose to 1,4
tons in the week ended May 15, whe
an important producer resumed oper
tions after closing for repairs. PS

Public radio-telegraph service wai
officially opened May 18 on a 24-hour
daily schedule between ships at se
and the radio stations of the German
postal system in the Bizonal Area.
The German coastal stations also can
handle public telegraph traffic betwee
ships near the German coast and all
other countries with which telegraph
traffic is exchanged.

JEIA
A total of $51,412,512 worth of ex:
port products was delivered to foreign
(Continued on page 2

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 6 ---
HE OPPOSITION of a large seg-

ment of the Berlin Trade Union
Federation's rank and file membership
to the attempt of a single political
group to dominate the federation’s
policies and activities has created a
testing ground in the conflict between
two forms of governmental ideo-
logy—the right of individuals to ex-
press and determine their collective
actions versus the totalitarian rule of
a small hierarchy,

The federation, known in German
as the Freier Deutscher Gewerkschafts-
bund (FDGB), had from the first been
under Communist domination, but in
recent months the opposition from the
rank and file, under the name Un-
abhaengige Gewerkschaftsopposition

By Albert H. Berman
Manpower Division, OMGUS

(UGO) has threatened the Communist'’s
position. UGO intends to remain
within the federation and fight for its
full representation in the single labor
organization.

The conflict reached a peak in the
recent union elections when the op-
position scored stunning gains against
the Sozialistische Einheitspartei
Deutschlands (SED) element.

Actually, the fury provoked by
Communist tactics, which deprived
the opposition of an equal share in
the administration of the federation,
was largely a manifestation of more
basic issues.

T
U

One out of every two employed
persons in the city belong to the
Berlin FDGB, whose membership of
almost 720,000 in March was larger
than the total union enrollment in
any state in the US Zone. However,
because of the political implications
involved in the dispute, deep interest

in its progress is being shown
throughout Germany and in other
countries.

HE FUNDAMENTAL issues must

be considered in terms of the
basic concepts underlying the present
German labor movement. Prior to
1933, the split of organized labor into
three major national union federations,
each with marked political party or
denominational leanings, proved se-

While SED supporters of the Berlin Trade Union Federation (FDGB) staged a May 1 de aonstration in the Lustgarten,
Berlin, backers of the Independent Trade Union Opposition (UGO) (above) gathered in front of the Platz der Republik.

(Photo by Telegraf)

--- Page 7 ---
riously detrimental in the battle
against.the rising forces of Nazism.

At the beginning of the occupation,
former trade union functionaries from
the rival associations agreed on the
necessity for a united labor move-
ment free of political party or de-
nominational commitments. Moreover,
it was generally agreed that, once the
initial stage of organization was over,
the member unions of a federation
would regdin their pre-1933 status
of independent associations having
complete self-determination over their
finances and administration.

The authority of the federation
would be derived from the expressed
consent of the union affiliates which
would delegate only those powers
necessary for the representation of
those general interests of the union
membership greater than the scope
of any particular trade union.

In its checkered career since 1945,
the Communist and subsequently,
under its new guise, the SED leader-
ship of the Berlin FDGB has violated
these cardinal precepts, with the
result that the rank and file has
rebelled,

The Communist faction secured its
initial foothold shortly after the Soviet
capture of Berlin in April, 1945. With
Soviet approval, an eight-member
committee of four Communists, two
Social Democrats, and two Christian
Democrats was created for the pur-
pose of reconstituting a labor orga-
nization in Berlin.

The new Federation was a federa-
tion in name only since its 18 depart-
ments, later called trade unions, de-
pended on the central leadership for
funds and direction. The Federation
and most of its departments were
organized into federation and trade
union districts corresponding to the
20 boroughs of Berlin. Communists
were usually appointed to head these
district administrations.

Only two months after the pro-
visional organizing committee had
inaugurated its recruitment cam-
paign, the Berlin FDGB held elections
for delegates to a city convention
without the knowledge or consent of
the Allied Kommandatura, which de-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

voted months to consideration of
possible validation of the elections
without reaching a decision. A sub-
sequent election removed the ne-
cessity for further consideration.

In a surprising about-face the Berlin
FDGB, on Dec. 6, 1945, requested per-
mission for new elections, explaining
that the membership growth since the
previous September had been so sub-
stantial that the elected delegates
were no longer representative. The
proposed election rules were approv-
ed by the Allied Kommandatura with
basic amendments designed to insure
the democratic conduct of the elec-
tions.

Today it is no longer important
whether one side claims 55 per-
cent, but what is important was
the defeat of the SED machine
in the Berlin elections in 1946
and in the trade union elections
in 1948...

The same spirit which 100
years ago inspired people to man
the barricades against military
power is the same spirit now
being shown against a trade
union which ignores the will of
the membership. — from a speech
by Dr. Otto Suhr, president of
the Berlin City Council, before
the UGO assembly on May 26.

EGINNING WITH THE 1946 elec-

tions, the Communists and later
their SED successors have consistently
failed to obtain a majority of the
elected delegates to FDGB borough
conventions. Although in the 1946
balloting the Communists comprised
40 percent of the delegates to the
20 FDGB borough conventions, they
ended up with 53 percent of the de-
legates to the FDGB city convention.

This resulted from the indirect
system of election procedure from the
plant to the borough and to ‘the city
level. It also was effected by the Com-
munistic practice which provides that
Communists vote as a unit. Their re-
latively unorganized opponents with
scattered votes often voted for Com-
munists without realizing it, since

4

candidates were not identified po
litically on the ballots.

The Communists shared at the time
control of the top governing body
with unionists of other political sym-
pathies. The elected 30-member FDGB
Executive Board, headed by a Com-
munist, consisted of 15 KPD, 12 SPD,
and 3 CDU members.

Organized opposition to Communist
control in the Berlin labor movement
practically collapsed in April, 1946,
when almost all top SPD functionaries
in the Federation joined the newly-
created Socialist Unity Party which
had been formed despite the ex-'
pressed disapproval of the Berlin SPD
membership. In a plebescite conducted
in the Western Sectors and prohibited
in the Soviet Sector, 82 percent of
participating SPD members voted
against immediate amalgamation of
the SPD and KPD.

Although the Berlin SPD quickly
recovered under new leadership,
winning almost 50 percent of the po-
pular vote in the Berlin municipal
elections seven months later, as
against only 20 percent for the SED,
the SPD was not able to achieve a
similar comeback in time for the 1947
Federation elections,

As a result, the pro-SED element
trounced the trade union opposition
which had been reorganized by SPD
unionists under the name Independent
Trade Union Opposition (UGO).
Under the indirect system of voting,
the SED won a larger proportion of
the delegates to the FDGB city con-
vention than it would have secured
in accordance with a direct member-
ship vote.

Consequently the opposition refused
to participate in the elections to the
new FDGB Executive Board. The en-
larged 45-member directorate, headed
by a SED adherent, included 34 SED
members. Eighteen of the 45 members
previously elected by trade union
conventions were confirmed at the
FDGB convention.

Appointments to the Federation
machinery followed a similar pattern.
SED members were selected to fill 13
of the 16 leading positions in the
FDGB departments and secretariats

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
and to hold more than 1,000 of the
1,240 salaried posts.

VIDENTLY CONSTRUING the

SED victory as the overwhelming
will of the membership, the FDGB
daily publication, the Tribuene which
had been somewhat moderate, now
closely followed the SED line. Con-
ditions in the Soviet Zone were con-
sistently described in glowing colors
while nothing worthwhile was found
in the western zones.

While attacking the formation of
the bizonal economic fusion, the
Tribuene endorsed the SED sponsored
“People's Congress" and the  so-
called referendum (Volksbegehren) on
Germany unity,

The Marshall Plan, which is sup-
ported by trade unions in the western
zones, was strongly opposed by the
Berlin FDGB. All political parties in
Berlin except the SED have been re-
peatedly criticized. The most vitriolic
tirades have, however, been reserved
for the leadership of the union op-
position (UGO) which has been accus-
ed of being agents of foreign interests
intent on splitting the FDGB,

Basic differences between the SED-
dominated leadership and the union
opposition flared over the issue of the
Federation constitution. Draft statutes
submitted by the FDGB Executive
Board to the Allied Kommandatura
were returned in January, 1947, for
discussion by the trade union member-
ship, for possible revision, and for
Tatification of the constitution at an
extraordinary city conference.

The view was also expressed that
the desires contained in the report
of the World Federation of Trade
Unions (WFTU) would be considered
in the discussion and adoption of the
Berlin FDGB constitution. Reference
Was made in the Kommandatura to
a@ unanimous report prepared by a
WFTU commission composed of re-
presentatives from the national fed-
erations of seven countries includ-
ing the Soviet Union which visited
labor organizations throughout Ger-
many in February, 1946. In the report,
the commission declared:

“We recognize that the centraliza-
tion of finances may be necessary or

JUNE 15, 1943

desirable in the early stages of trade
union development. However, we are
of the opinion that it would be unwise
for the German trade union movement
to adopt this form as a permanent
feature, for the separate industrial
unions cannot have any real autonomy
so long as they do not have treasuries
of their own, but must look to a
central organization for their financial
needs.”

NDER THE DRAFT prepared by
the FDGB Executive Board, the
constituent trade unions assume

merely the status of federation de-

((DENA-Bild)

Jakob Kaiser, who was deposed
recently by the Soviet Military Ad-
ministration as the leader of the
Soviet Zone CDU, is a member of
the provisional committee of UGO.

partments contrary to the usual po-
sition of autonomous trade unions.
The concentration of power was in-
dicated by the direct admission of all
union members into the Federation
rather than into the several trade
unions, and by the collection of all
dues by the Berlin FDGB, which al-
located certain proportions in accord-
ance with the size of membership to
the 18 affiliated trade unions.

Through the. centralization of
membership and of finances including
strike funds, the Federation can con-
trol the action of its constituent
unions. The draft statutes also mod-

5

ified the existing election rules only
to the extent that one-half of the del-
egates to the FDGB city convention
would henceforth be elected by the
trade union conventions, whereas
hitherto all delegates had been chosen
by the FDGB borough committees.

It was indeed ironical that the Berlin
FDGB, which highly praised the WFTU,
should nevertheless blatantly ignore
the basic recommendations of the
WFTU which have been put into
effect in trade unions in the three
western zones of Germany.

On the other hand, the Berlin Sal-
aried Employees Union, in which the
opposition following predominated,
presented an alternative text provid-
ing for financial and administrative
autonomy of the trade unions, and
the direct election of all delegates
to the federation conference by the
trade union conventions,

All doubts as to which draft would
be adopted were completely dispelled
with the Berlin FDGB announcement
that the constitutional assembly,
scheduled for July 13, 1947, would
consist of the same members as the
FDGB city conference held earlier
that year. With minor amendments
the constitution prepared by the
Executive Board was ratified by an
overwhelming majority after the con-
vention had disposed perfunctorily of
the alternative draft.

The Federation constitution was
then submitted to the Allied Kom-
mandatura which has referred the
matter for decision to the Allied Con-
trol Authority. In a statement of basic
issues of disagreement in the Allied
Kommandatura, the French comman-
dant declared that “it would result
from the constitution ..., that the
central organization exercised in fact
a kind of dictatorship.”

The US and British representatives
stated that it would first be necessary
for the Allied Kommandatura to
examine the constitutions of the 18
individual trade unions to ensure that
they possessed financial and func-
tional autonomy. Only the Soviet com-
mandant supported immediate ap-
proval of the FDGB constitution which,

(Continued on page 29)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
THE PRE

[HE DEVELOPMENT and strength

of the free press in the United
States was depicted graphically for
the enlightenment of the German
public, at the International Press
Exhibition held during May and early
June in Munich,

More than 150,000 persons visited
the exhibition during its first 30 days.
Its popularity has caused the German
sponsors and US officials to consider
many invitations to continue the
exhibition in other cities of the US-
occupied area of Germany.

With the support of Information
Control officials of Military Govern-
ment and the cooperation of publishers
and newspaper organizations in the
United States, the Bavarian News-
paper Publishers Association was
able to devote a large section of the
exhibit to telling the history and
giving present-day examples of the
US press.

Under the tital “"USA—Die freieste
and machtigste Demokratie der Welt"
(USA—The Freest and most Power-
ful Democracy of the World) was a
series of photographs and sketches
of the sources of the independence
and strength of the United States.

Pictures and explanations in German
depicted the growth of the American
newspaper, specifically naming some
of the men who helped shape this
development—Benjamin Franklin, Pe-
ter Zenger, Thomas Paine, Thomas
Jefferson, Philippe Freneau, Horace
Greeley, Henry Raymond, Benjamin
H. Day, Abraham Lincoln and W. R.
Hearst—and cited their contributions.

There were panels devoted to the
operations of the three major wire
services and to five of the largest
groups of newspaper ownership.
Arrays of front pages and photographs
illustrated the make-up and features
of the types of newspapers—morning,
evening, tabloid, weekly, foreign and
comics. Some of the larger American
newspapers had their own panels.

American publications in Germany
also were given special attention. The
Stars and Stripes, unofficial US

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A view of the printing section at the press exhibit in Munich
(Photo by Amann for HEUTE)

MODEL NEWSPAPER plant was

Army daily, and its weekly magazine,
WEEKEND, had their displays, Close
by were those of the MG-published
German language periodicals—Die
Neue Zeitung (The New Times), semi-
weekly zonal newspaper; Hevte
(Today), Neue Auslese (New Selec-
tions) and Amerikanische Rundschau
(American Review).

The remainder of the International
Press Exhibition was devoted largely
to the history of the German news-
papers and booths for the individual
newspapers, and some _ publishing
houses of the US Zone.

Near the American section was an
exhibit from neighboring democratic
countries—France, Great Britain, the
Netherlands, Austria and Switzer-
land, In a center area was a review
of the newspapers, magazines and
publications of all four occupied
zones of Germany.

6

set up and in operation. It
showed the course of copy through
the editorial office, the composing
room and onto the press, with the
small size newspaper being run off.
The remainder of the International
Press Exhibition was devoted to the
history of the German newspapers
and to the displays of the individual
newspapers and several publishing
houses of the US Zone. At one boot
was an old Gutenberg press, described
as one of the first used by the German
inventor of the movable type. For
two marks a visitor could buy a
handbill printed on this old press.
One of the major attractions to the
German visitors was the array of
typical clippings and _ illustratioas
from the controlled press of the Nazi
regime. Many of the adults stopped
and read avidly, and then walked
away thoughfully, as if reflecting on

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 10 ---
the comparison of those utterances
with present-day conditions.

Coupled with each clipping of the
bombastic outpourings of Goebbels
and his propagandists of Nazi
doctrine were illustrations and sx-
planations of how it was possible for
the totalitarian state, in denying the
fundamental democratic right of
freedom of the press, to distort the
truth, to mislead its people and to
glorify its own selfish interests.

HE GUIDE BOOKLET for the ex-

hibition pointed out that “In spite
of all the rubble and human suffering,
the press shows the US Zone has not
lost its determination for reconstruc-
tion. ...

“Those who have seen how hard it
has been to find a new standard for
the new German press. .. to discard
the wreckage of the past unfortunate
years and to get the people to under-
stand the new way of the press, can
imagine that in these few years, in
spite of all difficulties, all has been
reported in the German press.

“Besides the newspapers, the
magazines and publishing houses
should be included, so that everyone
can become acquainted with the intel-
lectual work of the German people...

“Munich carries a sign of an inter-
national exhibition, at least; a de-
monstration, therefore, that in foreign
countries also confidence has been
tevived for the Germans."

Imports Improve Bizonal Fat Outlook

The fat situation in the Bizonal
Area is better than at any time since
the beginning of the occupation, as a
result of heavy imports of fats, oils
and oilseeds by the US/UK authorities,
the Bipartite Food, Agriculture and
Forestry Group has announced.

Imports of fat, oils and oilseeds
since the beginning of the year to
May 15 equaled 91,052 tons, or 62,136
tons in pure fat, more than seven
times the total 1947 import figure. Fat
shipments into the Bizonal Area are
30 days ahead of schedule, bipartite
food and agriculture officials stated.

At the same time the officials an-
nounced that procurement has begun
against bizonal fat requirements for
the coming ration year, which starts
July 1, with the signing of oilseed

contracts totaling almost $400,000
with African and Italian export
agencies,

The contracts call for the delivery
of 3,500 tons of cotton seed from
Africa and 300 tons of mustard seed
from Italy, which, when processed,
will provide about 780 tons of mar-
garine for bizonal consumption.

Indigenous fat production, on the
other hand, has declined seriously,
bipartite officials stated, since the
monthly fat production quotas for
1948 were set far below the quotas

Committees Set Up To Spur Milk Output

Hessian food officials are setting
up a series of county and community
committees, composed of producers,
consumers, agriculturalists, and
governmental officials, in an all-out
drive to increase milk production and
collection throughout the state.

The plan, a move in the opposite
direction from rigid controls imposed
during the Nazi regime, is being put
into operation in an attempt to
establish community pressure which
will insure an uninterrupted and un-
diverted flow of milk from dairyman
to consumer.

The committees are empowered to
draft dairy managers, breeders, and

JUNE 15, 1948

other experts as advisers, said Saul
M, Katz, OMGH food and agriculture
chief,

County committees will be composed
of the county president, county's
chief farmer, manager of the collection
branch of the county food office,
director of the county agricultural
school, three dairymen, and three
consumers. The consumers will be
chosen from names suggested by the
trade unions.

Community committees will be
made up of the local mayor, leading
local farmers, two producers, and one
consumer possessing a normal user
ration card.

established in 1947 as a result of last
summer's bad drought.

Although German-reported figures
indicate that 98 percent of the April
bizonal quota has been met, it was
pointed out that this quota called for
the production of only 7,300 tons of
fats, as compared to the 10,500 tons
of fats actually produced in April 1947.

The May quota figure for this year
was 13,400 tons, against 15,400 tons
produced in May of last year.

Butter production in the whole
Bizonal Area dropped 6,000 tons in
April as compared with the April,
1947, figure.

The sharp drop, bipartite officials
pointed out, has been caused in part
by the reduction of livestock to save
grain, the poor condition of the remain-
ing herds and the general shortage of
animal fodder following last summer's
cricical drought.

Plan Crop Protection

German rural police in Hesse are
planning an extensive field protection
campaign based on special night
patrols and motorized flying squads,
in a move to combat pilferage of the
forthcoming early harvest.

Night patrols will be increased,
OMGH public safety officials said,
with special emphasis placed on
covering country roads, railroad
stations, and village exit points.

Communities which report the
greatest losses from pilferers will
receive additional rural police pro-
tection in the form of completely
motorized 10-man flying squads,
which can be shifted from place to
place at a moment's notice.

Hessian mayors have been advised
to make a force of citizen field guards
available in order to increase the
effectiveness of the harvest watch.

Soviet Zone Program
A two-year program “in the interest
of reconstruction and the | develop-
ment of a peacetime economy” is
planned for the Soviet Zone in
1949-50 by the economics com-
mission.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
An employee of the Zeiss Ikon
works, Stuttgart, tests a camera.

MERICAN SOLDIERS, civilians

and dependents of the US Zone
have been bumping their pocketbooks
more often of late against an ubiqui-
tous organization called JEIA. At the
opening of the first JEIA-run business-
men’s hotel in Bad Homburg, Hesse,
they found their dollar chits dis-
appearing as fast as the lobster and
martinis at Stateside prices. The 2,000
taxis operating in German cities
suddenly became JEIA concessions. A
few American car-owners discovered

Making pencils at Staedtler Pencil Co.

a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Puiting finishing touches to gas tank
at Mannesmann Mig. Co., Duisberg.

By Dorothy Gies
Staff Writer, WEEKEND

they could drive up to a German tire
factory, have four brand new tires
put on without delay and pay JEIA
cash in dollars. An American depen-
dent who went to a German optician
to be fitted for contact lenses was
sent to the JEIA branch office to
settle the bill—$50 in scrip.
JEIA—the US-British operated Joint
Export-Import Agency—controls most

Photography by Al Byers, JEIA

Ford Motor Co. assembly plant,Cologne.

ae

The Diesel motor assembly room
of M.A.N. machine works, Augsburg,

of what the Bizonal Area buys abroad
and everything it has to sell. A
hardheaded Anglo-American business
operation, JEIA has a tight clutch on
the area's tattered purse strings and
a big job ahead—to pull bankrupt
Bizonia out of the red.

Americans in the US Zone are
likely to meet JEIA on even more
occasions in the next year. By autumn
there will be nine JEIA hotels in oper-
ation, complete with restaurants and

Piersee textile plant at Augsburg.

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
bars, and highly profitable prices.
Plans have been discussed to set up
JEIA stores where Americans can buy
German products at export prices.

LL THESE THINGS are part of
the JEIA aim to make Germany's
exports pay the high cost of her im-
ports. Everything Germany needs in
raw materials—from sheep gut and
slates for schoolboys to radium for
medicine—is bought today through
the agency. JEIA exports cover
everything from German coal and
cameras to ship repairs in German
docks, the sale of German patents,
and the services of German workers.
If aChinese merchant in Hong Kong
orders German dyestuffs, he pays
JEIA dollars through a New York
bank. Vaccine made in the labora-
tories of the former I. G. Farben Com-
pany that was rushed to check the
cholera epidemic in Egypt added
dollars to JEIA funds. JEIA collects
the royalties paid to a German con-
cert singer who cuts records for a
company in Switzerland.

JEIA headquarters in Hoechst near
Frankfurt are housed in what is
possibly the most dismal building in-
tact in Germany. The interior is faced
with poisonous-looking red, blue and
green brick that once advertised
Farben dyes. In the unpretentious
offices opening off gloomy corridors
JEIA's billion-dollar trading business
is carried on.

Around a long table in JEIA’s chief
conference room sit delegates from
European governments who want to
do business with Germany. Miss
Ethel Dietrich, trade negotiator for
JEIA, sets up the conferences. Ac-
cording to Miss Dietrich, “JEIA does
business with any country that wants
to do business with Germany." Trade
conferences have been held with
every country in Europe except Ru-
mania, Albania and Spain.

ERMAN AND _ FRENCH sare

usually the languages of the
conference table, and the agreements
are drawn up in English. Often Ger-
man experts on certain commodities
sit in on the discussions, There is
plenty of international horsetrading
and haggling over prices and terms.

“The Greeks, for example,” ex-
plains Miss Dietrich, “want to sell
Germany some of their surplus to-

JUNE 15, 1943

Motor test block for the Opel Blitz truck at the Opel plant, Ruesselsheim.

bacco. It's more expensive than Amer-
ican, but JEIA agrees to take
$2,500,000 worth, because Germans
like it—it blends well with German
tobacco, and because JEIA can sell
Greece German machines, needles
and scissors."

JEIA officials are careful to explain
that there is no bartering with
foreign countries, They buy from
Germany, Germany buys from them.
Payments are made through a series
of “offset accounts”'in foreign banks
that are cleared every three months
by the debtor paying off the creditor
in dollars.

JEIA's sweeping operations on the
European economic scene did not
spring up overnight. It has been
quietly working out details of its
organization since James F. Byrnes,
then US secretary of state, and
British Foreign Minister Ernest Bevin

How JEIA Works is carried
with permission of the editors of
‘WEEKEND, weekly magazine’ of
the unofficial US Army news-
paper, The Stars and Stripes, and
with the approval of the direc-
tor general of the Joint Export-
Import Agency.

met in December, 1946, to agree on a
bizonal economic merger. JEIA is the
mainspring of their plan.

At first JEIA operated from Min-
den in the British Zone, with a joint
British and American staff patterned
on the lines of SHAEF, Early this
year, JEIA was set up in Hoechst
near bizonal headquarters in Frank-
furt, and received a new charter and
a complete job of streamlining. Its
powers were made virtually auto-
cratic.

ODELLED ON THE lines of a

corporation with a board of
directors at its head, JEIA is respon-
sible to no one except the Birpartite
Board, which is composed of the two
Military Governors, Its staff is jointly
American and British, but the voting
in the board is by capital investment.
The United States outvotes Britain by
three to one,

The two most important men
in JEIA today are its director general,
William John Logan, and his British
deputy, John F, Cahan. Logan's
background is the favorite American
success formula. He was an all-
American football player for Prince-
ton in 1921, went to work as a
messenger boy for the Hanover
Bank in New York, and rose to be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
vice-president. He retired from bank-
ing but worked during the war for
the War Production Board, He was
appointed by Secretary of State
Marshall and General Clay for his
present job. Colleagues say he con-
siders it a sort of patriotic duty.

By profession, Canadian-born Cahan
is not a businessman, but a teacher
of economics. He taught at the Uni-
versity of London until the war when
he joined the staff of the British
Treasury.

OST OF THE day-to-day dealing

with German and foreign busi-
nessmen is cairied on in JETA branch
offices set up in each state capital.
Here German manufacturers, exporters
and agents flock with every con-
ceivable question and problem arising
out of the intricacies of present-day
German commercial transactions,

A canary breeder from Fulda comes
to the JEIA Branch in Wiesbaden to
arrange for the import of grapeseed
for his canaries. When the canaries
are old enough to travel, they will
be flown to an American dealer in
New York. The latter pays JEIA for
them in dollars, and the German
breeder gets marks at the prewar
price level for canaries.

A Swedish businessman—distinguish-
able from German visitors by his
very new clothes and his shiny black
homburg—knodks at JEIA’s door for
a billet. He is in Germany shopping
for a custom-built piece of paper-
cutting machinery he bought here
before the war. JEIA reserves a hotel
room and a private car for him. He
pays for both in dollars.

A Dutch furrier and a German
tanner confer with a JEIA represent-
ative in a branch office about the
terms of their contract. The Dutch
furrier wants to send raw Persian
lamb into Germany to be processed.
The German tanner must get an im-
port license from JEIA first to bring
the furs in. When they are ready to
be shipped back to Amsterdam, the
contract must be drawn up, terms
and prices checked first by German
officials in the state economic ministry,
then by JEIA.

Prices of German exports must
approximate world market prices,
and a German exporter must present

INFORMATION BULLETIN

at least three world price quotations
to get JEIA’s O.K. “Germans often
don't price their goods high enough,”
said one JEIA official.

A German wine-seller wants to
apply for an exit permit so he can
go to New York to sell his wine. If
he can show that it is going to benefit
the German economy, he will probably
get the permit—eventually. Several
hundred German businessmen have
already gone abroad, usually to
Sweden, Switzerland and the United
States, to sell or buy.

An application for an exit permit
has to run an obstacle course among
a dozen sets of German and American
Officials before it is granted. Often it
takes weeks or months to obtain.
“One German died last year waiting
for his,” says an assistant in a JEIA
branch. “But it wouldn't have made
any difference. He wanted to go to
South America, and his papers were
disapproved.”

Another source of revenue for JEIA
is from the services of Germans sent
abroad to work. Usually such workers
are engineers or technicians sent to
another country to repair a piece of
German machinery, or perform a
skilled job of one kind or another.
A German specialist from Wiesbaden
is working today fitting glass eyes to
patients in a Swiss hospital. His

salary of $50 a day goes to JEIA,
and JEIA deposits marks for him in
Germany, fixed at the prewar wage
scale. The foreign employer usually
provides the German employee with
expenses and transportation from the
German border. Any German going
abroad to work under JEIA sponsor-
ship has to sign a statement prom-
ising not to sell or barter his ser-
vices except through JEIA.

Often JEIA can set the salary con-
cerned, as in the case of a top-flight
German business executive now in
the United States consulting with the
American firm he represented before
the war. JEIA decided he would prob-
ably earn $20,000 a year under or-
dinary circumstances. The equivalent
of this salary is deposited in a JEIA
account by the American firm.

EIA'S MOST IMPORTANT work to
J date has been to iron out business
procedures. A year ago the German
businessman who set out to revive
his export trade was living, com-
mercially speaking, on a desert island.
He had lost touch with his prewar
customers. He could not telephone or
telegraph outside Germany. He could
not travel to his customers, and they
could not travel to him. The Trading
with the Enemy Acts forbade the
latter from doing business with Ger-
mans at all. With an isolated cur-

Mr. William John Logan, director-general of Joint Export-Import Agency,
speaks at formal opening of the Gruener Wald Hotel, Wiesbaden.

(Photo by Byers, JEIA)

--- Page 14 ---
rency, the German manufacturer could
not hope to import raw materials he
needed to get his business back on
its feet.

Today most of the ordinary business
procedures have been restored in
Germany. A German can telephone or
telegraph outside the country.

Several hundred German business-
men have made trips outside Ger-
many, and several thousand foreign
businessmen have come to Germany.
JEIA helps a German manufacturer
subscribe to trade magazines to
refresh his knowledge of world
markets. He can advertise his pro-
ducts through the trade fairs held at
regular intervals in German cities.
Most important, he can import raw
materials through JEIA, providing he
can prove his product will make a
dollar profit of three to one, or more.

suade the German manufacturer and
laborer to produce—and then to export
their goods instead of bartering it on
the German economy. Brigadier M.R.L.
Robinson, deputy director of the
foreign trade division, estimated
recently that 80 percent of German
production is going back into the
German economy, legally or illegally.
“Many Germans are hoarding raw
materials against the day of cur-
rency exchange,” said Harold Nickels-
berg, of the JEIA branch office for
Hesse,

Ape MAIN PROBLEM is to per-

How does JEIA prevent the Ger-
man manufacturer from selling on
his own to a foreign buyer and
pocketing the proceeds? JEIA has no
police force, But it has the German
customs authorities to help check;
MG's control of transportation, and
MG Law No.161, wich makes it a
criminal offense, punishable by any-
thing up to death, to move property
and goods across the border without
Proper authorization. Branch offices
can also check the exports a German
manufacturer is making against the
amount he has imported, to see if he
is really producing.

The German press has been highly
critical of JEIA. One German news-
Paperman called it “the most hated
organization in Germany.” A frequent
complaint of German businessmen is

INFORMATION BULLETIN

This is the smelting room at the Duisburg copper works, Duisburg.

that there is still too much red tape
in dealing with JEIA.

But JEIA has simplified complex
procedures a great deal in the last
few months. A German producer with
goods on hand can make over-the-
counter sales up to $5,000 without
any license, and the buyer can take
the goods away with him. A German
exporter by acquiring an “open-end
export license” can make sales up to
$10,000 without consulting JEIA and
without demanding letters of credit
from his customer. The buyer, how-
ever, pays through JEIA and the
German firm in turn gets marks.

Sales of more than $250,000 still
have to be forwarded by the JEIA
branches to JEIA headquarters, some-
times a long-drawn-out procedure that
may take two months or more to
consummate, according to branch offi-
cials. “And those are the sales we
like to make," says Henry D, Cohen,
deputy chief of the Hessian Branch of
JEIA.

According to Mr. Nickelsberg, who
talks to German businessmen every
day, “Their main troubles are due to
general conditions today. They com-
plain that they can't get labor or they
can't get shoes for their workers—
things we can’t control.” JEIA will
help, however, by using part of its
$ 300,000,000 import fund this year to
buy consumer goods for Germany.

Another German complaint is that
the dollar bonus given to exporters
from the proceeds of their sales is
too small to be a real incentive.
Bonus A—five percent of the proceeds

11

of German goods sold abroad—goes
to the exporter. He can use it either
for the purchase of machinery or raw
materials, or for travel abroad.
Bonus B—another five percent—goes
to the export labor, in the form of
extra food, clothing, tobacco,

Bonus B funds collect in a central
kitty and are distributed entirely by
aGerman-run committee. JEIA spokes-
man say the Germans have been very
slow about distribution of the funds.
However, tea, coffee, cheese and
sardines have finally been ordered,
and export workers will be able to
draw about $6 worth of commodities
a month,

EIA IS CONSIDERING a plan to
J give German exporters 40 percent
of the dollar proceeds from exports.
Each German would then be respons-
ible for importing his own raw ma-
terials. German businessmen like the
idea because it would give them a
greater feeling of independence.

JEIA has always planned to turn
over its administration to the Ger-
mans eventually, keeping only a
policymaking body at the top. This
year German officials are planning
the expenditure of the %300,000,000
fund earmarked for JEIA imports.

The 64-dollar question which JEIA
must answer is: ‘Can Germany be-
come self-supporting, and how soon?”
Byrnes and Bevin in their three-year
plan for bizonal economy hoped that
in 1948 German would be exporting
enough to pay two-thirds of her im-
port bill, and that by 1949 German

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 15 ---
exports and imports would balance.
Then western Germany would be
self-supporting.

But while German exports are
lagging, Germany will probably re-
ceive $1,500,000,000 or more in im-
ports this year. Her exports at the
present rate will not pay a third of
the bill. Many foreign buyers have
had to cancel their contracts already.
Dollar-short countries cannot afford
to buy German luxury goods. More-
over, German production is still low—
crucial steel will probably not reach
the 5,000,000-ton mark this year, only
half what the level of industry
allows.

Everybody agrees that the Byrnes-
Bevin goal is impossible. “Actually,”
says Deputy Director Cahan, “it was
too optimistic. It was intended mainly
as a target for the Germans. But the
Germans are sure the Americans and
British won't letthem starve, anyhow.”

JEIA officials look to Marshall Plan
aid to save the situation by providing
western Europe with a transfusion of
vital dollars. “JEIA will coordinate
the spending of all funds available to
western Germany—category A im-
ports, export proceeds, and ERP
funds,” Cahan points out.

When then, with Marshall Plan aid,
can a_ self-supporting Germany be
established? Director General Logan
replies carefully:

“It is perfectly possible for German
exports to be raised in balance of
imports. How soon will depend on
world conditions.”

Cahan is more pointed. “If every-
body worked for it, and if the Ger-
mans didn’t play about with political
squabbles, and if they really could be
persuaded that they would starve if
they didn’t produce—then they might,
reach the target in 1951.”

Writing Ban Lifted

French Military Government with-
drew the writing ban originally im-
posed on Guenther Markscheffel,
editor of the SPD paper “Die Frei-
heit," for publishing articles comparing
unfavorably the present food con-
ditions with those of concentration
camps,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

JEIA Ends Entry Quota System

The Joint Export-Import Agency,
announcing the abolition of the quota
system for the entry of foreign
businessmen into the Bizonal Area,
said that under a new procedure any
person who has an interest in trade
with the Bizonal Area may now be
admitted for repeated journeys over
a period of 30 days. If additional time
is required, the JEIA branch offices
have been authorized to grant what-
ever extension is necessary.

Previously, the number of business-
men admitted to the US and UK Zones
was based on the extent to which
the individual countries engaged in
trade with the economically-fused
zones and upon available accomo-
dations. This plan has been abandoned
in keeping with the plan of the two
Military Governments for expanded
trade with other countries.

In a further effort to encourage the
visits of businessmen, JEIA is adding
new hotels to those already operating
for the exclusive use of foreign
visitors.

The procedure for the entry of
foreign visitors is as follows:

The visitor will obtain a “sponsor-
ship" from the ministry of foreign
trade or its equivalent in his country.
Such sponsorship will be considered
as a guarantee of the bona fides of
the visitor and as an indication that
an import license will be granted if
a contract is concluded.

The businessmen will then receive
a Military Entry Permit from the Mili-
tary Permit Officer. MPO's are located
in all the important European capitals
and Washington.

Each applicant will have his pass-
port stamped indicating that he is
entitled to use all facilities available
to foreign businessmen in the Bizonal
Area. He will receive a copy of the
“Business Men's Guide," published by
JEIA and listing these facilities.

Complete freedom of travel will be
allowed between the United States
and British occupation zones.

In the British Zone, visitors will pay
for accommodations and transport in
British Armed Forces Special Vouchers

12

(BAFSV), and in Military Payment
Certificates (MPC) in the US Zone.

BAFSV's will be procured in Ger-
many against a special sterling letter
of credit obtainable from the London
Foreign Office (German Section); from
the British MPO, or the principal
British consular representative in
countries where there is no MPO.
American Express dollar traveler's
checks or MPO's will be accepted in
exchange for BAFSV's.

In the US Zone, MPO's will be
issued in exchange for dollar instru-
ments.

Deadline Extended

The US Zone deadline for filing
reports of property confiscated from
persecuted persons during the Nazi
regime and subject to restitution
under MG Law No, 59 has been ex-
tended three months to Aug. 15, the
Property Division, OMGUS, announced.

The extension does not affect the
deadline date of Dec. 31, 1948, for
filing of claims for restitution. A
large number of persons entitled to
file claims, many of whom were
forced to leave Germany during the
Nazi regime, have lost trace of their
property and must rely on reports
required of all persons having
knowledge of such property.

The extension was granted because
some individuals and agencies under
obligation to file reports have en-
countered unusual difficulty in
obtaining necessary data.

Bavarians Adopt Slogans

The latest slogans of the Bavarian
party include the claim that “God
decides who is to be a Bavarian" and
“The Bavarian people decide who is
to be accepted as a Bavarian."

In an eight-point program, the party
demanded the independence of the
Bavarian state, followed by a “de-
Prussianization," a plebiscite to
determine the state’s relationship to
the rest of Germany, and a ruling
that only Bavarians be permitted in
the civil service, press and radio.—
News of Germany.

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 16 ---
JEIA BLACKLISTS 240 FOREIGN FIRMS

German-owned, Controlled Companies in Sweden, Switzerland,
Spain, Portugal Subject to Liquidation for Reparations Purposes

JEIA has made available to Bizonal Area officials and export-import organizations a list of foreign firms considered
undesirable as customers. The list comprises firms located in Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and Portugal which are
known to have been German-owned or controlled, therefore subject to liquidation under programs for sale of German
external assets for reparations purposes as provided in the Potsdam Agreement and the Paris Reparations Agreement.

Under international agreements, the governments of the countries in which the 240 undesirable firms are located
are called upon to liquidate them as soon as possible. In order to assist them in this task the US and British occu-
pation authorities will attempt to see that no commercial transactions are completed between these firms and
bizonal business houses which would further complicate the disposition of assets.

A list of these firms has been sent to all JEIA branch offices for distribution to officials of the German state econ-
omies ministries and export-import firms to facilitate licensing of trade and to meet the needs of firms exporting under
a general “open” export license. German firms will be responsible for checking proposed transactions with firms in
Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and Portugal against this list. Any contracts made by German firms with foreign firms
contained on this list will be cause for immediate revocation of the JEIA license.

The list was announced by JEIA as follows:

Portugal

AEG. Lusitana de Electricidade, Rua dos
Fanqueiros 12, Lisbon; and Rua Sa da Ban-
deira 211, Oporto.

Anilinas Ltda., Soc. de., Travessa das Pedras
Negres, Lisbon, and all branches in Portugal.

Arrozeira Mercantil Cia., Rua de Reboleira 49,
Oporto.

Bayer, Ltda., Lisbon and Oporto.

Beiras (Soc. Mineiri Das), 441, Rua da Con-
stituicao, Oporto.

Castelos (Soc. Mineira Das), 441, Rue de Con-
stituicao, Oporto.

Cibul (Cia. Comercio Ibero-Ultramarino Lda),
Rua Eugenio dos Santos, Lisbon.

Cofor (Cia. Fornecedora SARL),
Antonio Vleira 30, Lisbon.

Constructora E Comercial Lda. (Soc. de), Ave.
Almirante Reis 1, Lisbon.

Empresa Fornecedora d'Agua a Navegacao,
Funchal, Madeira.

Folgar, Cia. Mineira De, Rua da Constitui-
cao 441, Oporto.

Fornecedora de Aguas Navegacao, Funchal,
Madeira,

Greiner Ltda., Faro.

Gruen & Bilfinger S. A., Rua da Madalena 163,
Lisbon.

Hansa Lda., Rua da Emenda 79, Lisbon.

Hermias Ltda., Rua do Caes de Santarem 24,
Lisbon.

Jurgens, Emp., Com., Lda., Oporto.

Lisbonense, Soc. Mineira, 441, Rua da Cons-
tituicao, Oporto.

Lobar-Grupo Portuguese Importador e Export-
ador Ltda., Rua do Ouro 191, Caixa Postal 366,
Lisbon.

Mata da Rainha Lda., 441, Rua da Constituicao,
Oporto,

Mineira de Moncorvo Soc., Moncorvo, and
Rua Augusta 47, Lisbon.

Mineira Do Norte (OBA), Rua Barao de Nova
Sintra, Oporto.

Mundial Filmes Ltda., Ave. da Liberdade 3,
Lisbon.

Quimico-Farmaceutica
Freire 96, Lisbon.

SAPEM (Soc. Anon.) Portuguese de Embalagems
Metalicas, Rua da Emenda, Lisbon.

Sabrosa (Empresa Mineira Da), 441, Rua da
Constituicao, Oporto.

Schering S. A. Portuguesa SARL, Largo da
Anunciada 9, Lisbon.

Rua Padre

Ltda, Rua Gomez

JUNE 15, 1948 i

Servicos Aeros Portuguesos, Avenida da

Liberdada 120, Lisbon.

Siemens Cia. de Electricidade, Rua August 118,
Lisbon; and Rua das Carmelitas, Oporto.

Siemens Reiniger SARL, Rua de Santa Marta 33A
and 31, Lisbon, and Rua Candido dos Reis 120,
Oporto.

Silvicola (Cia. Minero), 441, Rua da Constituicao,
Oporto.

Sinapius Ltda., Otto, Largo de S. Domingos 17,
Lisbon,

“Sitma" (Soc. Insulana de Transportes Mari-
tima), Praca Duque da Terceira 24, Lisbon.

Somec (Soc. Metropolitana E Colonial de
Construcces), Rua da Madalena 163, Lisbon.

Sonimi (Soc. Nacional da Industria Mineira
Ltda.), Azinhaga dos Ameixiais, Lisbon.

Trancosa (Soc. Mineira De Lda.), Rua da
Constituicao 441, Oporto.

Tungstenia Ltda., 441, Rua da Constituicao,
Oporto.

Volfrestanio, Lda., 441, Rua da Constituicao,
Oporto.

Wimmer & Hermann Stolz,
de Julho 34, Lisbon.

Spain

Abello Oxigano Linde, S. A., Barcelona.

Aceros Finos Roechling, Barcelona, and all
branches in Spain.

Aceros y Metales S.A.
lencia 372, Barcelona .

Aire Comprimido Maquinaria y Accessorios,
S. A. (ACMASA), Madrid.

Alfredo Roehm, S. A., Madrid.

Atlantica Comercial, S.A.
Barcelona.

Brauns Ltda., Especialidades Domesticas, Bar-
celona,

Cloratita, S.A., Andorra de Teruel.

Construcciones Ferroviarias e. Industriales,
S.A., Barcelona, .

Continental Fabrica Espanola del Caucho,
Segasta 15, Madrid, and all branches in Spain.

De Kage, Bata, Spanish Guinea.

Demag, Maquinaria Soc. Ltda., Iparraguire 2,
Bilbao.

Dentichlor, S.L., Barcelona,

Elaboracion Plexiglas Espanol, S. A. (EPESA),
Alcala 10, Madrid, and at Carabanchel, Alto.

Electro-Quimica de Flix, S. A., Flix, Tarragona,

Equipo Bosch, S. A., Mallorca 281, Barcelona,
and Viriato 20, Madrid.

13

Ltda., Ave. 24

(Rheinmetall), Va-

Diputacion 260,

Juan Antonio Escribano, S.L., Murcia.

Sociedad Espanola del Acumulador Tudor,
Madrid.

Espanola de Motores Deutz, S.A., Cia, (Otto
Deutz), Serrano 16, Madrid.

Espanola de Perforaciones y Pozos,
Madrid.

Fabrica de Tubos Electronicos, S. A., Madrid.

Fabril y Comercial Peninsular, S. A., Martinez
Campos 15, Madrid.

Flottmann, S.A., Jorge Juan 51, Madrid, and
Maestro Carcia Rivero 5, Bilbao.

Forjas de Alcala, S.A., Alcala de Honares,
Madrid.

Greiner, C.A. e Hijos, S.A., Calle Pecher
y Santa Magdalena, San Feliu de Guixols.

Hispano Alemana, S.L., Agencia Maritima,
Ribera 1, Valencia.

Industrias Quimicas Reunidas, S.A. (INQUI-
RESA), Flix, Barcelona.

Klingelnberg Soehne, W. Ford, Consejo de
Ciento 264, Barcelona.

Kromschroeder, S. A., Industria 278, Barcelona.

Libreria Herder, Balmes 22, Barcelona.

M.A.N. Diesel Iberica, S.A., Alcala 45, and
Ponzano 75, Madrid.

Maquinaria, J.M. Voith, S.L., Desengano 18,
Madrid.

MBA, S.A., (Materiales Basicos y Acces-
sorios Soc. Anon.), Carrera de San Ge-
ronimo 44, Madrid, Rambla Cataluna 66,
Barcelona, and Alameda de Mazerredo 41,
Bilbao (formerly Orenstein & Koppel).

Meca, S. A., Barcelona.

Minas Reunidas, Felipe II 14, Madrid.

Minerales Galaicos, S. A., Ave. Martires de
Carral 1, Monforte de Lemos. (Lugo).

Moritz, W. A., Via Layetana 28, Barcelona.

Neumaticos-Continental, S.A., Segasta 15,
Madrid, and all branches im Spain.

Pelikan, S.A., Gunther Wagner Productos,
Barcelona.

Productos Agricolas, S. A., Plaza del Caudillo 5,
Valencia, and all branches in Spain (PRODAG).

Productos Quimico Farmaceuticos, S. A., Paseo
Pujadas 9, Barcelona, and all branches in
Spain.

Productos Quimicos Geho, Barcelona.

Productos Quimico-Farmaceuticos (SALIA) S.A.,
San Sebastian,

Sedas Gutermann, S. A., Diputacion 239, Barce-
Jona, and at Madrid.

Servicio y Reparaciones a Motores Diesel
(SEMOD), Madrid.

Sociedad Comercial Auxiliar de las Industrias,
S. A. (SOCOMINDUS), Madrid.

S.A,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Sociedad Espanola de Exportaciones e Im-
portaciones, S.A. (SEISA), Valencia.

Tecnofarma, S. A., Barcelona.

Telefunken-Radiotecnica_Iberica, S.A., Carre-
tera de Madrid 101, Getafe, Madrid.

Tetzlaff y Wenzel, Via Layetana 128, Barcelona,

Sweden
Adol, AB, Stockholm.
Agfa-Foto, AB., Malmtorgsgatan 5, Stockholm.

Berreth & Holfeld, AB., Arsenalsgatan 4,
Stockholm.

J. M. Boehm, AB., Stodcholm.

Continental - Caoutchouc Co.,
gatan 41, Stockholm.

Deutsche Amerika Linie Svenskt, AB., Dala-
gatan 6, Stockholm.

Durkopp, AB., Goeteborg.
Exportkompaniet Svecia, AB., Stockholm.

AB.,  Tors-

H, & A. Gratenau, AB., Smalandsgatan 4,
Stockholm. ncaa
Hansa Bensin, AB., Stockholm.

Igefa Svenska, AB., Norrlandsgatan 18,
Stodcholm,

Kathreiner, AB., Stoccholm,
Mannesmann, AB., Kungsgatan 4B, Stockholm.

Mey-Kragen, AB., Camila B: ti 2,
Stodeholm, ane

Forvaltningsaktiebelaget Mona, AB., Malmoe.

Nordchemika Kemisk-Tekniska Fabriker, AB.,
Stockholm.

Nordring, AB., Birger Jarlsgatan 55, Stockholm.
Nordisk Stenindustri, AB., Goeteborg.

Nordiskt Filmotek, AB., Norr Malarstrand 22,
Stockholm.

Olympia Skrivmaskiner, AB., Kungsgatan 16-18,
toccholm.

Pars, AB,, Hamngatan 16, Stoccholm.
Suedostropa, AB., Stureplan 19, Stockholm.
Svenska, AB., Rember, Stoccholm,

Timoria, AB., Stoccholm,

Tobis Film, AB., Kungsgatan 15, Stockholm.
Ufafilm, AB., Kungsgatan 15, Stoccholm.

Werner & Pfleiderer, AB., Kungsgatan 33,
Stockholm.
Wolff, Otto, AB., Stockholm.
Switzerland
Aktiengesellschaft fuer Aetherische Oele,
Glarus.

A. E. G, Elektrizitaets A. G., Stamfenbach-
‘bachstr. 12-14, Zunich.

Albiswerk Zurich A. G., Albisriederstrr. 245,
Zurich.

Bek, J. M. & Co., (Bek und Kroll) Singen,
Zweigniederlassung Ramsen, Ramsen.

Bertrams A. G., Heinrich, Vogesenstr. 101,
Basel.

“Blau-Gold” A. G. Stockerstr. 38, Ziirich.

Boehringer A. G., Robert, Oetenbachgasse 28,
Zurich,

Bosch A. G., Robert,
and at Geneva.

Boehringer, C. P. & Soehne A. G., Zellikofen,
mr. Berne.

Cece-Graphit Werke A. G., Wehntalerstr. 600,
Zurich,

Badenstr, 329, Zurich

“Celludur,"’ AG., Kronauerstr., Cham.

Celluloidwarenfabrik Zollikofen A. G., Zolli-
kofen, Bern.

Chemisch-Technische Werke A. G., Bitzenen-
strasse 64-68, Muttenz, Baselland.

Chemische Fabrik Pilot A. G.,
strasse 23, Basel.

“Chepa,"" AG. fuer Chemische und Pharma-
ceutische Unternehmungen, Lausanne.

Dornier Werke A. G., Altenheinn, St. Gallen.
Dralle, A. G., Georg, Basel.
Duerkoppwerke A. G., Albisstr. 28, Zurich,

Edelstahl A. G., Vereinigte, — Postgasse,
Glarus,

Eisen und Metall A.G., Utoquai 29, Zurich.

Elemo Elektromotoren A. G., Laufenstr. 5,
Basel,

Steinentor-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Flender & Co., Friedrich, Bocholt, Zweig-
niederlassung) Kuesnacht, Allmendstr. 4,
Kuesnacht.

Gas und Wassermesserfabrik AG., in Lu-
cerne, Krienserstr. 527, Lucerne.
Genossenschaft Keramik, Rosenthal  Por-

zellan, Seidengasse 12, Zurich and at Davos

Platz.

Gluehlampenwerke Aarau A. G., Aarau.
Gluehlampenfabrik Winterthur A. G., Burgli-

strasse 33, Winterthur.

Grunauer & Co., A. G., Adolf, Sevogelstr. 1,
Basel.

Gutermann Naehseiden A. G., Stampfenbach-
strasse 12, Zurich,

Haas'sche Schriftgiesserei A. G., Munchenstein,

Hamel, Spinn & Zwirnereimaschinen A. G.,
Carl, Arbon.

Haniel A. G., Franz, Zentral Bahnstr. 9,
Basel and all branches in Switzerland.

Harpener Kohlen Handels A. G., Ryffstr. 42,
Basel.

Henkel & Co.,
Basel.

Henkel Persilwerke A. G., Pratteln, Basel.

Hering-Rad, A. G., Bluemlisalpstr. 18, Zurich.

Hoffman, G. (Frankfurt am Main,  Filiale
Basel), Aeschengraben 13, Basel.

Hostmann-Steinberg Farben A. G., Chr., Beder-
strasse 103 A, Zurich.

Igepha, A. G., Loewenstr. 3, Zurich.

Internationale Geselischaft der Stickstoff In-
dustrie A, G., St. Jakgbstr. 22, Basel.

Kaligesellschaft A. G., Laupenstr. 5, Bern.

Kaloderma A. G., Waldenburgerstr, 1, Basel.

Kanderner Tonwarenfabrik, Ernst Kammueller,

A. G.,  Kirschgartenstr. 12,

Kandern, Filiale Basel, Drahtzugstr. 14,
Basel,
Karlsruher Parfuemerie & Toilettense'fen-

fabrik (F. Wolff & Sohn, G. m. b. H.),
Grenzacherstr. 63, Basel.

Keller's G. H. Tuchhandlung, Gerbergstr. 26,
Basel.

Keramische Rohstoff A. G.,
Zurich.

Keramische Unternehmungen A. G. fuer (S. A.
Pour Entreprises Ceramiques), Hennebuehl,

ug.

Klement & Spaeth, Parfuemerie & Seifen-
fabriken Ravensburg Zweigniederlassung Ro-
manshorn, Romanshorn.

Klepper-Mantel A. G., Uraniastr. 14, Zurich.

Kllingelnberg Soehne, W. Ford, Remscheid,
Zweigniederlassung Zurich, Hotzestr. 25,
Zurich.

Knoll & Cie, A. G., Liestal.

Kohlen & Brikettwerke A. G., Nauenstr. 63 A,
Basel.

Kosmea A. G., Bahnhofstr. 23, Zug.

Bahnhofstr. 26,

Krebs, Dr.) Strebel-Kessel_& Radiatoren,
Fluelastr. 19, Zurich, and at Rothrist, Aar-
gau.

Labor-Fac A. G., Elizabethenstr. 44, Basel.

Ladcfarben A. G., Berlin, Filiale Kreuzlingen,
Unterseestr. 32, Kreuzlingen.

Langbein Pfahhauser Werke A. G., Schweéze-
rische FFiliale der, Schaffhauserstr. 228,
Zurich.

Lange F. A., Metallwerke A. G., Auerhammer,
Zweigniederlassung Biel, Zentralstr. 53, Biel.

Langenbrahm Anthrazit, G. m, b. H., Loewen-
strasse 17, Zurich.

Leukon A. G., Freigutstr, 7, Zurich.

Licht A. G, Vereinigte Gluehlampenfabriken,
Goldau,

Lorenz, C., A. G., Berlin, Zweigniederlassung
Bern, Bubenbergplatz 10, Bern.

“M, B. A." Maschinen und Bahnbedarf A. G.,
Weinbergstr. 15, Zurich.

Mannesmann A. G., Bellerivestr. 16, and Tal-
strasse 83, Zurich,

Manometer A.G., Andreasstr. 9, Zurich.

Marathon Edelstahl A. G., Klaustr. 19, Zurich.

Masstabfabrik A. G., Gewerberstr. 6, Schaff-
hausen,

Mercedes-Benz-Automobil
strasse 119, Zurich.

Merde Produkten A. G, fuer den Handel in,
Bahnhofstr. 23. Zug.

Merck-Unternehmungen, Holding A. G.
Bahnhofstr. 23, Zug.

14

A. G.,  Badener

fuer,

Merz & Co., Chemische Fabrik, Dufourstr. 176
and Froehlichstr, 28, Zurich,

Metrum, A. G., c/o A. G. Wallisellen, and
c/o Walter Weiss, Falkenstr. 36, Basel.

Muenster, G. & Co., Rothrist, Aargau.

Nitsche & Guenther, Optische Werke, E. G.,
Rathenow, Filiale’ Zuerich, Bahnhofstr. 78,
Zurich.

Oberrhein Reederei & Kohlenhandels A. G.,
Nauenstr. 63 A, Basel.

Omon A. G., Neubadstr. 115, Basel.

Opekta, A. G., fuer Chemische u, Pharma-
ceutische Produkte, Neubadstr. 115, Basel.

Osram, A. G., Limmatquai 3, Zurich, and all
branches in Switzerland.

Ozalid A. G., Zurich.

Purator A. G., Elizabethanstr. 44, Basel and
at Zurich.

Rhein und See Transport A. G., Riehenstr. 145,
Basel.

“Rhenus" A. G. fuer Schiffahrt & Spedition
“Rhenus" S. A. de navigation et d’expedi-
tion), Hiafenstr, 13, Basel.

Roechling & Cie. A. G., Seevogelstr. 1, Basel.

Roechling Stahl A. G., Vulkanstr. 126, Zurich
and at Basel.

Rosenthal Porzellan, Genossenschaft Keramik,
Seidengasse 13, Zurich and Davos Platz.

Salamander Schuh A. G., Zurich, Bahnhof-
strasse 72, Zurich.

Schenker & Co. A. G., Buchs, St. Gallen, and
all branches in Switzerland.

Schaerer, M., A. G., Wallgasse 2, Bern, and
all branches in Switzerland.

Schmalfilm A. G., Uraniastr. 33, Zurich.

Schoellkopf A. G., Hermann, Beethovenstr. 38,
Zurich.

Schulte Kommanditgeselischaft
Wilhelm Schaenis, St. Gallen.

Schwabenland & Co. A. G.,
schelersir, 44, Zurich.

Scientia A. G., Feldeggstr. 12, Zurich,

Scintilla, A. G., Solothurn.

Seiden-Textil A. G., Loewenstr. 19, Zurich.

Schlossfabrik,

Zurich, Neu-

Siemens Elektrizitaets Erzeugnisse A. G.,
Loewenstr. 35, Zurich and at Bern.
Signum A. G., Oberwiesenstr., Wallisellen.

Skag Steuerungen und Kupplungen A. G.,
Andreasstr, 7-9, Zurich.

Springer & Moller, Neugasse 55 & 61, Zurich.

Stallmann, Gebr. Heiden.

Steyr Solothurn Waffen A. G.,
strasse 89, Zurich.

Stockwerkzeuge und Maschinen
A. G., Guterstn, 88, Basel.

Straub, Ernst, Konstanz Riliale Zurich, Lim-
matstr, 45, ‘Zurich.

Stromeyer, L. & Cie, Poststr. 50, Kreuzlingen.

Stromayer M., Kohlenhandel A. G., Nauen-
strasse 63, Basel, and all branches in
Switzerland.

Styria Stahl A, G., Aussteliungstr. 104, Zurich,

Synthaer A. G., Glarus.

Teerfarben A. G., Bahnhofstr. 55, Zurich.

Telefunken Zurich A. G., Stampfenbachstr. 13,
Zurich,

Textil Rohstoff A, G., Hennebuehl 6, Zug.

Tillmann-Schmidt Nilogs-Werk-Wangi.

Treupha A. G., fuer Chemisch-Pharmaceu-
tische und Kosmetische Produkte, Brunmatt-
strasse 12 and Badstr. 19, Baden.

Uhren A. G, vormals Mauthe Uhren A. G.,
Uraniabrucke 6, Zunich.

Verkaufsgesellschaft der Mielewerke A. G.,
in Zurich, Schaffhauserstr. 472, Zurich.

Vinco, A. G., Claus.

“Vulkan” Kohlenhandels
Zurich.

Waffenfabrik Solothurn A. G., Solothurn.

Wagner A. G., Guenther, Bachhofnerstr. 8,
Zurich.

Wellner Soehne, A. G., August, Aue, Zweig-
niederlassung | Zurich, Schweizergasse 14,
Zurich.

Werkzeugmaschinenfabrik Solothurn A. G.,
Solothurn.

Werkzeug-Union G. m. b. H., Falkenstr. 28,
Zurich.

Willach_& Soehne, Hugo,
Kreuzkingen,

Bahnhof-

Verkaufs

A. G., Petstr. 1,

Konstanzerstr, 40,

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
Potato Drive Brings Results

Rise of 3,000,000 Tons in Output Sought in Bizonal Area

A survey conducted in the northern
states of the Bizonal Area indicates
that German farmers are responding
favorably to the bipartite-sponsored
drive to increase potato production in
the Area by more than 3,000,000 tons
during the coming year, the Bipartite
Control Office has announced.

Members of the bipartite food and
agriculture staff who conducted the
eight-day survey in May reported
that approximately half of the late
potato crop had already been sown,
and early potatoes planted were in
many cases already through the
ground and in: extremely good con-
dition.

Adequate seed supplies were re-
ported by the inspecting team, with
evidence of only minor local or tem-
porary shortages noted. A large quan-
tity of seed potatoes was imported
into the Bizonal Area for planting
purposes since July 1, 1947, bipartite
officials pointed out, 142,000 tons hav-
ing been obtained from European
sources and 108,000 tons from the
United States.

In Lower Saxony indications were
that 714,000 acres of potatoes were
being planted against a target goal
of 827,450, which would represent
approximately 90 percent fulfillment
of the established figure. In Schleswig-
Holstein, which has a 259,350 acre
goal, an estimated 209,950 acres were
being planted, about 81 percent of the
target figure, and figures for North
Rhine/Westphalia indicate that ap-
proximately 494,000 acres were being
planted, or 77 percent of the
580,450-acre target. Although short of
the established target, this year's
planted acreage in these states is
nevertheless considerably greater
than last year's.

Since the results of an_ earlier
survey of the estimated acreage of

potatoes planted in the southern
states of the Bizonal Area were
equally encouraging, the over-all

picture for the combined area is good,

JUNE 15, 1948

according to bipartite food and agri-
culture officials.

Indications at the time of the earlier
survey were that farmers in Wuert-
temberg-Baden were planting 152,900
acres of potatoes against a target
planting goal of 165,250; Hessian far-
mers 293,930 acres against a 308,750-
acre target figure, and Bavarian far-
mers between 827,450 and 839,800
acres against a 975,650-acre goal.

The over-all goal for the Bizonal
Area this year is 3,198,650 acres of
potatoes with approximately 2,750,000
acres in actual production. This com-
pares with 2,389,498 acres planted last
year.

Publicity had been given to the
system of issuing sugar premiums to
stimulate potato production during
1948, it was noted, but many farmers
in the northern states were unaware
that they could make advance collec-
tions of sugar for hectarage planted,
believing that the sugar would only
be issued against potatoes actually
delivered.

A total of 27,500 tons of imported
sugar has been allocated to the
Bizonal Area to cover the program,
which calls for a 46 percent increase
in the quota for potato deliveries
during 1948, the first time that im-
ported food has ever been used for
agricultural incentive purposes.

School Reform Approved

In their first session since the
Russians refused to establish regular
meetings early in May, the deputy
commandants of the Allied Kom-
mandatura in Berlin unanimously
approved the new Berlin school
teform law.

A compromise was reached on the
question of religious instruction, with
the decision that all schools may
offer two hours of such lessons out-
side the regular program. Churches
or other groups may establish private
schools if they so desire—ICD's
News of Germany.

15

(Photo by Otfried Schmidt for HEUTE)
The first lemons from Italy for dis-
tribution to the Bizonal Area popula-
tion arrive in Munich, Fruit experts
are shown inspecting the lemons,
which were imported under the JEIA
program,

Dairy Prices Rise

In accordance with the decision of
the Bipartite Control Office to dis-
continue subsidy payments on milk,
milk products and fats in the British
Zone, the German Department for
Economics issued a series of new
ordinances increasing the prices of

milk, butter, cheese, certain other
milk products, vegetable oils and
margarine,

In arriving at the revised prices,
immediate increases in production
costs were taken into account. Stand-
ard-quality butter now costs con-
sumers RM 5.12 per 2.2 pounds in-
stead of the previous RM 3.60 in the
British Zone and RM 4 in the US Zone.

The increases were greater for the
British Zone than the US Zone, where
the subsidy had been removed in
1946. In the cases of margarine and
vegetable oils, consumer prices in the
US Zone remained unchanged.

Students To Help in Harvest
Approximately 500 German students
in the British Zone will go to Eng-
land in September for six weeks to
help in the harvest.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
o

S/Sgt. Robert Monroe (foreground) and Capt. Howard J. Behm,
assistant G-3, concentrating on their G-3 operations map.

Command Post Experiment

(Photos by Army Signal Corps)

“CPX" (Command Post Experiment),
the wartime code name for the 1st Di-
vision Command Post, was used re-
cently to designate the day's problem
of setting up a division command post
under combat conditions without
actually bringing troops into the field.

The field exercise took place at the
Grafenwoehr manceuver area in Bavaria
under the command of Maj. Gen.
Frank W. Milburn, commanding officer
of the 1st Infantry Division. It was

Examining a map are (left to right) Maj. John G. Clar

described as having been carried out
with precision and dispatch.

Command posts, which were con-
nected by a complex signal commu-
nications system, were set up swiftly
in the simulated combat area.

Only the staffs of the various units
in the 1st Division participated. All
service units, except the signal com-
munications and military police units,
operated on paper.

S-4 officer; Maj.

James F, Cutter, S-1; CWO Fred E, Smart, assistant S-4, all Constab.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

Pic Stucker Dennis (left), of the 1st
message received by S/Sgt. Richa

Lincmen oi the Ist Signal Company pre t
(left to right) Pvt. Francis J. McGuel

Maj. Gen. Frank. W. Milburn inspects
1st Division Hq. G-3 truck with Lt.
Col. Robert S. Redfield, G-3 chief.

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 20 ---
Company, 1st Infantry Division, records a
Varner. T/4 Pascual Cabalam looks on.

(back to camera), of the 1st Signal Company,
stands at attention as Capt. Walter J. Harbort, company commanding
officer, inspects his Thompson sub-machine gun during exercises,

%
Company, 1st Infantry Division, works Capt. Walter P. Stanckiewitz, 1st Division ammunition officer, and Maj.
on the terminal strip of a field telephone. Ross Condit, ordnance officer, plan disposition of ammunition point.

JUNE 15, 1948 17 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
A convoy of Jeeps and armored reconnaissance cars oi B Troop, 68th Squadron, 2nd Regiment, Constabulary, takes
a 10-minute break while en route to a new location. The convoy was under command of Capt. James E. Robson.

me

% sn
4 Sn, Bi
tat

ae

Cpl. Charles E. Anshutz, of Regimental Hgq., 18th Infantry, sits in his Pic Henry A. Soto, of 1st In-
shrubbery-shrouded Jeep ready to answer any summons. fantry Division, does KP.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 18 JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
Pic David J. Johnson directs Two Constabulary motorcycle policemen patrol the roads connecting
motor traffic into field head- the 2nd Constabulary command post with Hq 1st Division command post.
quarters of the 1st Division. They are (left to right) S/Sgt. Peter Domico and T/5 Michel Gradijan.

T/4 Adrian F. Stanton practices first aid on S/Sgt. An M-8 armored reconnaissance car has been
Donald W. Mervin during Command Post Experiment. placed in a position overlooking the convoy route.

JUNE 15, 1948 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Red Gazette Banned

For Month in Hesse

OMG Hesse halted publication of
the Communist-edited KPD Infor-
mation Bulletin for one month for
distortions and attacks against policies
of the United States.

The gazette had been reduced from
four to two issues during March for
twisting facts so as to make the Ger-
man people doubt the motives of the
United States and to cause distrust
and hostility toward America.

Dr. James R. Newman, OMGH
Director, announced the punitive
action in a letter to Ernst Eichels-
doerfer, Communist licensee in Frank-
furt. Dr. Newman rebuked the KPD
publisher for printing, in his May 7
issue, headlines and statements which
attempted to convey the impression
that establishment of an authorized
Hesse state division of the Sozia-
listische Volkspartei Deutschlands has
been accomplished, despite the fact
that KPD headquarters in Frankfurt
had been informed that use of the
new name was forbidden.

Dr. Newman cited, in the same
issue, a synopsis of a speech allegedly
made by Max Reimann at a recent
KPD conference in Herne, British
Zone, in which he allegedly declared
that United States policy is designed
to depress further the standard of
living of the German people and would
eventually lead to an army of un-
employed.

Union Policies on ERP

Trade union leagues in the various
zones are free to formulate their own
policies in regard to the European
Recovery Program, a_ resolution
adopted at a three-day interzonal
trade union conference in Heidelberg
stated,

This decision was made in view of
the varying economic and political
developments in the four zones, it
was said,

For the same reason, according to
Bernhard Goering, chairman of the
Free German Trade Union League in
the Soviet Zone, his organization did
not object to the possible bizonal or
trizonal fusion of western zone
unions.—ICD's News of Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

DDT Sprayed from Air
On Moth-Infested Forest

Fifteen hundred acres of moth-
infested evergreen forest near
Babenhausen, Hesse, were spray-
ed from the air with a ton of
DDT mixed with fuel oil.

The sprayings, made from
USAFE transport planes, had
been arranged in an effort to
save the timber from the nun
moth. The insecticide was manu-
factured in Hoechst.

Bizonal German Group
Picked for OEC Duty

The Bipartite Control Office an-
nounced the names of German
officials who have been approved as
members of the permanent delegation
for bizonal Germany with the Office
of European Cooperation in Paris.

Members of the bizonal delegation
will be: Dr. Hubert Frommel, deputy
chief statistician; Dr. Wilhelm Doerr,
deputy secretary, and Emil Moehring,
Miss Irene Meyer and Miss Ingeborg
Coleman, who will form the secretariat
staff.

The permanent bizonal delegation
will perform the functions of a small
service committee as a source of
technical information and in coordinat-
ing the activities of bizonal economic
experts and advisers who will be
called to Paris from time to time to
make recommendations on various
aspects of bizonal economic recovery.

German Police Check
International Trains

All persons who are subject to
German police jurisdiction, and who
ride on international trains within the
boundaries of the US Zone of Ger-
many, are to be checked by the
German police after June 15, Head-
quarters, European Command, an-
nounced.

In the past, US Constabulary troop-
ers have checked all personnel
riding on international trains within
the US Occupied area of Germany.
EUCOM officials stated that the new
ruling is another step in pursuit of
the MG policy of allowing German
police agencies to exercise full juris-
diction over personnel subject to their
authority.

Basically, said EUCOM officials,
the new policy affects all persons
except occupation personnel. Those
persons riding the international trains
who are not subject to German
police jurisdiction can establish that
fact by presenting proper identification
documents to the German police.

The EUCOM announcement stated
that on international trains crossing
the German-Austrian, the German-
Czechoslovakian, and the US-USSR-
Zone borders, US Constabulary troop-
ers conduct documentation check of
all personnel not subject to German
police jurisdiction.

On international trains crossing
other US zonal borders, US Con-
stabulary conducts such checks of per-
sonnel not subject to German police
jurisdiction as they consider neces-
sary to maintain security.

Non-Ferrous Metal Output Behind Schedule

Non-ferrous metal production con-
tinued behind schedule in the Bizonal
Area, said the Semimonthly Military
Government Report No. 91 of May 28.

The output of lead in April was
2,118 tons, compared with 2,947 tons
in March. Two major producers have
completed their refining programs and
are stockpiling smelter output until
sufficient crude lead is on hand to
resume refining operations. .

The production of raw zinc, in-

20

cluding zinc dust, was up to 3,083
tons in April from 2,652 tons in March.
Refined zinc totaled only 310 tons,
compared to 390 tons in March.

Electrolytic copper production in
April continued low at 698 tons be-
cause the main producer, the Nord-
deutsche Raffinerie (Northern German
Refinery) in Hamburg had closed its
electrolytic refining plant and was
using all available labor for making
blister copper and wire bars.

JUNE. 15, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

Alarm Voiced Over Food Strikes

Spreading food strikes were re-
garded with alarm by the licensed
German press in the US zone, espe-
cially since they were unauthorized
by union officials. Some thought this
indicated that workers were losing
confidence in their leaders.

The Giessener Freie Presse pointed
out that the strikes were unusual and
potentially dangerous because they
were unauthorized.

“They are actuated not by the de-
mand for specific concessions but are
an expression of general dissatis-
faction with the failure of the collec-
tion and distribution system to func-
tion ... The workers resent the petty
wars that are being waged between
‘bizonal authorities and the state gov-
ernments at the expense of the nor-
mal consumer.”

The Kasseler Zeitung declared that
the food situation was fundamentally
one of mismanagement, and that
drastic measures must be taken to
assure workers enough food:

“The plan to reduce working hours
to conserve the workers’ health is ill-
advised, because manpower is the

. only asset that Germany can offer at
present ... The solution is simply to
give the workers more food ... It is
largely a question of rapid and just
distribution ... As it is now, public
offices are continually making prom-
ises of food distribution which they
cannot keep. The food crisis is pri-
marily a bureaucratic crisis.”

US-Soviet-Notes

The Weser-Kurier (Bremen) de-
scribed Soviet tactics on the recent
Washington-Moscow exchange of
notes as a dangerous game which
worsened rather than improved the
Situation. Its editorial declared:

“There is every reason to suspect
that Moscow's announced willingness
to negotiate (for the settlement of
US—Soviet differences) was merely a

JUNE 15, 1948

propaganda trick meant to place the
blame for the breakdown of new
peace discussions on the United
States ...

“(US Secretary of State) Marshall
and (British Foreign Secretary) Bevin
have declared that they doubt the
good-will of the Soviet Government,
that they do not intend to participate
in new conferences that have no hope
of success, and that they regard the
statements. (concerning the US note)
made over Radio Moscow as a grave
breach of confidence and a propa-
ganda move ... The war of nerves
continues.”

The Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel)
said one ought not to inquire too
closely into Moscow's motives but
should welcome the opportunity for
the world to breathe easier:

“It at least offers a great chance
for the preservation of world peace,
which Germany particularly welcomes.
We are not so optimistic as (third
party candidate Henry) Wallace who
demands a hundred-year peace agree-
ment, but we are prepared to believe
in the will for peace on both sides.”

Hague Conference

The Sueddeutsche Allgemeine Zei-
tung (Pforzheim) said that although
no definite decisions were taken, the

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board of the Informa-
tion Control Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
inform the readers among the
occupational forces of what the
Germans are writing and think-
ing, and not necessarily to give
any concurrence to their views
and opinions.

21

Hague Conference represents the
birth of new hope for a United States
of Europe:

“It showed clearly that the realiza-
tion of the idea of a united Europe
is moving ever more into the bounds
of possibility.”

It continued:

“What our forefathers dreamed of
has begun to come true ... The pro-
posal for a European Parliament and
complete equality for all nations are
milestones on the way ... For us
Germans it is difficult to believe in a
unified Europe because not even Ger-
many itself can be regarded today
as a political unit ...

“Through this country, the heart of
Europe, passes a wall which grows
higher every day. But Europe needs
this country as an entity ... Without
the active cooperation of the Soviet
Union the European organization
cannot function nor can the fear of
war be banished ... The results of
the Hague Conference will not be
visible today or tomorrow, but the
idea will continue to grow.”

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg) called the Hague Con-
ference the first great public mani-
festation of the idea of an inter-
national Europe and said its goal
should be a Europe in which there is
freedom for all religions and philo-
sophies:

“Future Europe should be broad-
minded and tolerant. We want not a
socialist or Christian Europe but a
house in which the most widely-
differing and contrasting spiritual
and cultural ideologies can inter-
play ... a free, tolerant and human
Europe where everyone can find a
place.”

Palestine and UN

The Main - Echo (Aschaffenburg)
called Palestine a tragedy to the
United Nations and its ideals, saying:

“The fact that the great powers
could not avert war in Palestine ...

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
is disheartening ... It becomes clear
that the Palestine problem is no
longer merely a fight between Jews
and Arabs but a battleground for the
powers of East and West ... The
quick recognition of Israel by the
United States was only due to a de-
sire to forestall Russia ... The world
will be pleasantly surprised if the
‘big shots’ of the political area succeed
in preventing the Palestine fire from
becoming a general conflagration.”

The Offenbach-Post sharply criticiz-
ed the vacillations of US policy on
Palestine:

“Not so long ago President Truman
surprised the world by announcing
that the Unites States no longer fa-
vored Palestine partition ... Russia
promptly utilized the opportunity to
mobilize world Jewish sentiment
against the United States and parti-
cularly Truman personally ... In his
own Democratic Party voices were
increasingly raised against him
There was also danger that Russia,
which continued to support partition,
would take over the leading role if

UN police troops were sent to
Palestine ...
“All these reasons, doubtlessly

combined with a sincere effort to
serve the cause of peace, moved
Truman to recognize Israel... But...
how can there be a feeling of security,
if the United States changes its atti-
tude several times in the course of
a few months?”

The Passauer Neue Presse termed
the Palestine conflict a. challenge to
the conscience of the world:

“It is the survivors of Auschwitz
and Theresienstadt who are fighting
for their lives in Palestine today ...
In 1945 these people were promised
a new home ... As a first step they
streamed into American-occupied ter-
ritory (in Germany) ... But they had
no desire to remain permanently in
a country which reminded them of
their sufferings and the cruel deaths
of their parents, wives and children...

(However), instead of immigration
to Palestine they got camps and bar-
racks, Years of this life, in enforced
idleness, carried great danger, and
some of the Jews succumbed to it.

This should be borne in mind by
those who make the participation of
some Jews in the black market the
excuse for a new wave of anti-
Semitism..."

World Organization

The Giessener Freie Presse pointed
out that many of the original demands
of May Day demonstrations have
been achieved, except the most im-
portant, i. e., a world organization of
nations. It said:

“An eight-hour workday, laws pro-
tecting labor, the right to strike, all
have become matters of course, ...
everything except the guarantee of
peace through world cooperation of
the world’s peoples ... Instead of
opposing the war lust of ‘leaders’
thirsting for conquest, all classes had
believed themselves obligated to the
love of the Fatherland, which finally
led to the destruction of that same
Fatherland.

“This last war, however, has been
such a catastrophe for labor and
capital alike that there seems reason
to hope that even those who oppose
the systematic distribution of the
world’s goods are beginning to realize
that our economic order must be
changed ... that there must come a

Needy German schoolteachers receive CARE packages at the CARE
warehouse in Berlin. The packages were donated by the National

will to subordinate national egoism
to world law embracing all nations,’

Divided Germany

Rhein Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg)
said
already an accomplished fact, which

hardly needs official and open con- —
firmation. It declared: am

“The eastern zone has been forcibly
detached from the general German
economic structure and incorporated —
and has —
hardly any more points of contact with —

into the Soviet system...

the western zone system...

“The Soviet Union has no interest —
in the formal proclamation of an

eastern state. On the contrary, it wishes
to extend its influence to western Ger-

many by means of the type of Ger-_
man unity which it has demonstrated ©
in the eastern zone. Such devices as_
the People's Congress, etc., are there-
fore still touted as general German ~

conceptions in the hope of extending
eastern German ‘people's democracy’
to the West by harnessing national or
rather nationalistic sentiment to the
Soviet bandwagon ...

“However, with the building of a
democratic western state based on ~

general elections ... the whole Com-

munist unity uproar will collapse of

_

Education Association in the United States. Mr. John C. Thompson,
deputy director of the Education and Cultural Relations Branch, OMGUS,

(extreme right) helps hand out packages.

22

(Army Signal Corps photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the division of Germany is

.

--- Page 26 ---
itself. Changes of name and avoidance
of the word communism won't help.
The western zone population has learn-
ed to distinguish between unity
(Soviet) and unity (democratic), and
every election is a people’s referendum
in itself clearly against any form of
Communist totalitarianism.”

Weser Kurier (Bremen) in expressing
opposition to a western state, said that
if the Allies force it through, all Ger-
man public leaders must emphatically
indicate that such action is accepted
as merely a stop-gap.

“If the East and West are completely
separated, they will never again be
joined except by military force ...
The West couldn't do Moscow a
greater favor than to erect a western
state, which would give the Soviets
the pretext to do the same in the East.
The Russians would regard such an
event as a victorious ending to their
war of nerves ... If, despite this, a
western state comes into being, it
must be regarded as a trusteeship for
the interests of eastern Germany until
such time as a change in the poli-
tical situation again permits a genuine
union of all zones,"

Munich Exhibition

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg) said the German licensed
press takes pride in the Munich Press
Exhibition, as indicative of its pro-
gress in the post-war years:

“The democratic press is still on
the defensive in respect to freedom
and independence... If democracy is
to survive it must concern itself with
self-criticism, self-discipline and self-
education through a self-reliant and
independent press...

“The Munich Exhibition serves not
only the purpose of showing visitors
what Germany's young, independent
press has otherwise accomplished in
the last three years, but also to show
what progress has been made in
establishing the ethical standards in
journalism necessary in a demo-
cracy...

“At present the German press has
no standing on international pro-
blems... “That will come when the
Present condition between war and
peace is ended... In the meantime

JUNE 15, 1948

The American riding team is in training at Munich-Riem for the 12th
Olympic Games. Eleven officers, under the leadership of Col. Earl
F, Thomson, with 18 horses will go to London this summer to compete

in the Olympics.

(Photo by Eugen Grossar for HEUTE)

it must prepare itself for its inter-
national duties. The Munich Exhibi-
tion is designed to show how far we
have progressed. We look forward
with confidence to the world’s judg-
ment on our work.”

East-West Press

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
declared that a really free press does
not yet exist in Germany, because it
is the battleground of two sharply
contrasted world ideologies:

“The US Zone papers are expressly
permitted to criticize the occupation
powers... But the papers are very
careful in making use of this right,
because the criticism must not be
‘malevolent’ and this can be variously
interpreted. So they prefer to attack
the sometimes foolish measures put
forward by German authorities, which
are frequently due to MG orders...

“Such a condition measurably
restricts press freedom but is not sur-
prising. As always, “he who pays the
fiddler calls the tune’... The fact is
that western Germany, like all
western European countries, is bound
to America for better or for worse...
The reports newspapers receive from
eastern sources are colored and

23

distorted; from the West they are, at
least, ‘inspired’...

“Most of the German resistance
fighters were Communists who are
today ipso facto foes of democracy.
Zealous Nazis were and are anti-
Communists, so that a democratic
paper which attacks Communism runs
the risk of applause from the wrong
people. In such a situation, how can
a newspaper remain objective? We
can only be pioneers working for a
better world, which will in itself be
a better bulwark against eastern
ideology than any propaganda.”

The Offenbach Post criticized the
tendency of German officialdom to
avoid press conferences, saying:

“Press conferences are useful for
both the interviewed and the inter-
viewers... Every attempt by officials
to curtail the press’ right to ask
questions must be countered... In
other free countries the press as re-
presentative of public opinion is al-
ways welcome, whereas our gentlemen
prefer to remain in seclusion..,

“All actions done in the name of
the public must be evolved under the
eyes and ears of the people... and
the eyes and ears of the people are
the men of the press... Well-informed

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
public opinion is democracy's best
safeguard.”

Wants no Army

The Heilbronner Stimme published
a bitter letter from a reader described

as a war-crippled student, vigorously
opposing the formation of any new

German army, however small. The
letter declared:

“The German soldier was once called
the best soldier in the world. This
questionable honor cost us dearly.
Now we hear the American and Rus-
sian soldiers thus described by their
respective press. We will readily ac-
knowledge this if they will only leave
us alone. However, if they wish to
fight for the championship, let them
select their own countries as a battle-
ground rather than Germany, where
there is nothing of interest to
destroy ...or the Sahara...

“Perhaps one day the nations will
be seized by the ambition to create
best human beings rather than best
soldiers... At any rate, I am heretic
enough to be opposed to any new
German army in the next 50 years...
For one thing the European states then
would not be forced to conclude pacts
against us, and we would be forced to
produce great diplomats instead of
great soldiers.”

Progress Since 1945

The Werra Rundschau (Eschwege)
calling attention to progress made
since May 8, 1945, editorialized:

“In spite of all the grumbling, there
has been considerable improvement in
the last three years ... The worst
has been overcome and the Marshall
Plan will speed up the tempo of our
revival ... Without foreign help we
would have starved, but we can
proudly state that our own efforts
have also helped...

“In the political field, too, there has
been a change favorable to us...
Three years ago the whole world hated
us ... It seemed we would never
again be accepted as equals... Today
Germans are again participating in
European conferences... It is a hope-
ful beginning. Its development will
depend onus...

“Those who still hold with Hitler
and Nazi ideas are enemies of the
people, and must be treated accord-
ingly. Unfortunately, we still have

INFORMATION BULLETIN

people among us who do not abhor
war as such but merely regret that we
lost it. People who uphold the prin-
ciple of war must not grumble over
the consequences when they lose.”

Partner Among Nations

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Re-
gensburg) used the occasion of the
anniversary of Germany's capitulation
to plead for Germany's readmission
as an equal partner in the family of
nations:

“If Germans feel that they are
again accepted, a much surer basis
for cooperation with the western
powers will be created than can
possibly be achieved by a mere stream
of dollars from the West.”

Federative Germany

The Main Post (Wuerzburg) offered
support for a federative Germany in
a federative Europe, as a third power
between East and West:

“Such a third power alone could
bring order out of chaos. . . indepen-
dent of both Washington and Mos-
cow... The first steps have been
taken—Brussels, Paris and the French-
Italian customs union... The pre-
requisite for such a federation is re-
nunciation of nationalism and a cer-
tain amount of sovereignty ... But

the need for a federative structure a
applies to Germany as well as to ~
Europe as a whole ... Here in our —
own house we should prepare for such
time as we are again masters of our
fate and are readmitted to the coun-—
cils of the nations.”

Extra Rations
The Muenchner Merkur (Munich}
vigorously attacked public official;
who fail to see the necessity of extra

“Officials do not realize that just as _
the present condition of Germany was
caused primarily by a sickness of the ©
soul and spirit, so reconstruction and
recovery require more than merely
the repair of bomb damage. Soul re- j
construction is much more badly
needed. The men and women who can
help in this important work—actors,
authors and newspapermen, must be ©
saved from complete collapse.” ’

The Frankfurter Neue Presse also
took up the cudgels for undernour-
ished German cultural workers: :

“Particularly a nation which has ©
been crushed by the consequences of
a cruel dictatorship ought not to thus ~
abandon its artists, scientists and cre- _
ative writers ... This would be a
new form of barbarism which would
eventually exact a bitter vengeance.”

Dr. James K. Pollock, special adviser to the US Military Governor and

an expert on governmental and German affairs, at his desk in Berlin.
Mr. Pollock came to Germany for a two-week tour of the US Zone to
view the progress of Military Government since his last visit in 1947.

24

(Amy Signal Corps photo)

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 28 ---
and German Exhibits

NE HUNDRED GERMAN firms

represented the Bizonal Area for
the first time in displaying their
postwar products at the International
Sample Fair in Milan, Italy. This was
one of the most important exhibitions
in Europe since the war, attracting
nearly every nation to display its
goods of interest to trade and com-
mercial enterprise.

Because of the enormous value
which the German firms could derive
from personal contacts with former
buyers and meeting new dealers, the
US/UK-operated Joint Export-Import
Agency promoted and financed the
trip for the German exhibitors. It was
not so much a question of sending
many firms to Milan, as of having
those represented at the fair which
really were able to export immediate-
ly, and in whose production JEIA
knew foreign buyers were interested.

The goods which the Bizonal Area
offered were those for which Germany
was noted in prewar times in the
export field: optics, delicate mech-
anical devices, chemicals, medical and
dental instruments, machinery, hard-

ifan 4a

By Paul Bube

Assistant Economics Editor Berlin
Edition, Die Neue Zeitung

Paul Bube of the Berlin Bureau
of the MG-published German-
language zonal newspaper, Die
Neue Zeitung, was one of two
German editors authorized to go
to Milan, Italy, to report on the
International Samples Fair for the
German people. He wrote this
article especially for the In-
formation Bulletin.

Bube began newspaper work
on the old Vorwaerts in Berlin,
but was fired by the Nazis in
1933. He was in the German army
from 1941 to 1945, being taken
prisoner of war by the US Army
in Italy. He served as interpreter
for the US Army until his return
to Germany in 1946, when he
joined the Berlin bureau of
Die Neue Zeitung.

Photos by Rowen for Die Neue Zeitung

ware, farm tools, radios, electrical
equipment, tractors and jewelery.

The heartening fact was that Ger-
man goods had maintained their high
reputation as the fair progressed. The
German information booth for the
Bizonal Area was the headquarters for
many interested buyers. Hundreds of
visitors came to ask about prices, and
to inquire about the status and ad-
dresses of firms. A special staff of
JEIA and German officials was pres-
ent to answer questions.

ANY GERMAN FIRMS had a
chance to talk to their prewar
representatives in Italy and to renew
old trade connections. The result of
these personal contacts did not appear
so much in dollar profits but often
was the first step in reestablishing a
sound export business. Moreover,
many German businessmen readily
helped foreign buyers to find the
addresses of other German firms
which were not represented in Milan.
The offerings of the other countries
looked small, however, against the
big show which the Italian industry

German cameras, diving equipment and dental apparatus on exhibition at the International Samples Fair in Milan.

--- Page 29 ---
Laboratory producis, made by the Schering firm of Berlin, are prominently displayed at the Milan fair.

put on, Italian firms displayed practi-
cally everything a visitor could hope
to find at a fair. Even fields in which
Italy had a comparatively small
prewar industry have expanded.

With a world-wide shortage of
goods, and with a relatively large
number of undamaged plants, the Ital-
ian industry is able to supply almost
everything to foreign importers, Even
special items such as cameras and op-
tical instruments have been manu-
factured in quantity. Electrical equip-
ment and heavy machinery, tools
and railroad cars were among its
exhibits. The new Italian cars were
attractive.

Italian production has become much
bigger than the Italian market can
absorb. Stores are full of goods, but
to sell them is not easy. Advertise-
ments of almost everything for sale
on the installment plan indicated how
badly the Italian industry needed new
markets, especially export markets.

Although there were many Italian
firms which were greatly interested in
buying German goods, the German
representatives were not surprised
that only a few contracts with Italian
firms were concluded, because the
Italian government did not give the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

necessary import licenses. The reason
was simply: Italy is facing an export
problem herself, and is trying to save
her dollars.

Nevertheless, there is a good chance
for the German export industry to
regain its market in Italy and give
both Italy and the Bizonal Area the
benefits, because of the necessity of
Italy to find a market for its fruits,
vegetables, and wine. Germany needs
food badly; and Italy needs many
special articles from Germany.

OMING TO ITALY and seeing

the fair meant much more to the
visiting Germans than just a trip; it
was an adventure with new and big
surprises at every moment. For most
of them, it was the first time since
the war that they saw another country.
It was a startling sight to observe
how much has been done in other
countries since the end of the war.

The fair in Milan made it clear how
little the Germans knew about the
situation on the international market,
and showed them in the most in-
structive manner what is involved in
trying to catch up with competitors
without knowing anything about the
latest models or style. Milan was the

26

biggest show window most Germans
had ever seen.

Visitors were surprised to find the
famous Milan fair area completely
rebuilt, Many buildings had been dam-
aged during the war but have been
reconstructed in a most modern style,
One of the most impressive buildings
is the “House of the Nations," its two
wings completely constructed of con-
crete and glass, Each nation had a
special information stand in this build-
ing. Altogether, there were 975,000
square feet of exhibition space,

Thirty-three nations with a total of
5,600 exhibitors participated in the
fair. Of these, 1,452 came from foreign
countries, not only in Europe, but also
as far away as South Africa, India,
South America,
Canada, Australia, China and Pakistan.

Italian firms spent much time and
money to give the German firms an
appropriate place. JEIA had unexpect-

the United States, —

ed difficulties connected with trans- —

portation of exhibition goods and the
relation among the dollar, mark and
lira, but those problems were solved,
Every German exhibitor knew that
there was a job to do in Milan; not
only for his firm, but for the recovery
of the German export trade.

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 30 ---
(Continued from page 2)
Occupational Activities

buyers from the Bizonal Area during
April, setting an all-time high. Coal
and electric power accounted for
$31,000,000 of this total.

A 40 percent foreign exchange
credit for export manufacturers and
suppliers in the ceramics and textile
industries was established as an in-
centive to increase production.

Among export contracts recently
concluded by JEIA were the follow-
ing: Several thousand motor scooters
to be manufactured by Morabau
GmbH, Kaltenkirchen, Schleswig-Hol-
stein, each equipped with two-stroke
engines, for a Swiss firm; Opel auto-
mobiles sold to the Netherlands;
vacuum cleaners and other electrical
products to be manufactured by
Siemens-Schuckert, Erlangen, Bavaria,
for a Swedish firm.

Bavaria
Sudeten Germans continued to cross
the border illegally into Bavaria. The
influx of Czechoslovak political re-
fugees, however, decreased after a
further strengthening of the Czech
border controls,

The first month of postwar alu-
minum production in Germany show-
ed an output of 150 tons from
the Vereinigte Aluminium-Werke in
Toeging, Bavaria. Production had been
restricted by a shortage of suitable
labor.

The Bavarian Young Farmer's Asso-
ciation became the 11th youth group
to register on a state-wide basis in
Bavaria.

A children’s library, recently open-
ed in the US Information Center in
Augsburg, Bavaria, is organizing
courses in arts and handicraft.

Figures on the production of text-
books in Bavaria from July 1, 1945, to
April 1, 1948, show a total of 20,717,524
copies issued. Seventeen of the 25
titles were for elementary schools.

Wuerttemberg-Baden
Recruitment of skilled and un-
skilled labor has been inadequate at
railroad car and locomotive shops
where labor losses have almost offset
the gains. Since January, the Stutt-

JUNE 15, 1948

gart Railroad Management Office,
employing 42,000 persons, has obtain-
ed only five percent of the 2,800
additional employes sought.

The Zeitnahe Schularbeit (School
Work of Today), a new journal of the
State Institute for Education and In-
struction in Wuerttemberg-Baden, will
reprint magazine and newspaper
articles for classroom use.

A German advertising agency, the
Sued West Werbung GmbH, Mann-
heim, selected by the Newspaper
Publishers Association of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, has been authorized to
sell space to foreign firms desirous
of advertising in German newspapers
in the Bizonal Area.

Only a three-day stock of coal at
gas works could be kept on hand in
Wuerttemberg-Baden. Receipts were
only 65percent of allocations through-
out the Bizonal Area, and deliveries
continued irregular.

Hesse

Hessian border police have plugged
another hole in the US-Soviet Zone
boundary with the establishment of a
border control point in the Kassel rail-
road station. The Kassel inspection
point was set up to apprehend illegal
border crossers from the Russian Zone
who attempt to circumvent American-
Russian controls by slipping into the
US area from the British Zone.

The large locomotive repair works
at Kassel, Hesse, lost 12 of the first
20 days in May as the result of a
strike in protest against the food
situation. While the majority of rail-
road shops have resumed work,
sporadic unrest continued.

Two new periodicals appeared late

in May, “Der Stern” (The Star),
published monthly in Frankfurt, and
“Die Deutsche Berufsschule” (The

German Professional School), publish-
ed monthly in Wiesbaden.

Bremen

Publication of an  export-import
handbook covering Bremen was an-
nounced by the Bremen office of the
Joint Export-Import Agency. The
booklet, which contains 112 pages and
is available in convenient pocket size,
is printed in English, German and

27

Spanish. Included in its contents are
export and import firms, addresses
and telephone numbers of foreign
trade missions, a map index and
directory.

Berlin

Berlin presented the German pre-
mieres of two American plays: William
Saroyan’s “The Time of Your Life” in
the US Sector on May 14, and S. N.
Behrman's “No Time for Comedy” in
the British Sector on May 21, Saroyan’s
play was acclaimed by some critics
as the best American play brought
to Germany since the war.

During the last fiscal year, the
Evangelical Church in Berlin spent
RM 3,460,000 on church repairs through-
out the city. The new budget
for 1948-49 allocates more than
RM 7,000,000 for repair work. RM
2,200,000 was designated for repairs
on the 37 damaged churches and 40
other damaged ecclesiastical buildings
in the US Sector.

The Evangelical Theological Se-
minary in the US Sector of Berlin
dedicated a new barracks-type building
which had been received as a gift
through the World Council of Chur-
ches,

Seventeen thousand bars of soap,
purchased with proceeds from the
Community Chest drive conducted in
Berlin last fall, were turned over to
welfare offices of the six US Sector
boroughs. The soap was to be dis-
tributed to hospitals, children’s homes
and day care centers in the US Sector,
for more than 11,000 children and sick
persons,

Thirty-three hundred pounds of cod-
liver oil were recently presented by
CRALOG to the Central Welfare
Office of the city magistrat for dis-
tribution to tuberculosis patients of
Berlin. The cod-liver oil will be
distributed on a population basis to
hospitals and tuberculosis sanatoriums
in the four sectors.

A portable aluminum smelter, with
a production capacity of five tons of
industrial aluminum ingots per eight-
hour shift, went into operation in
Berlin-Tempehof. The new smelter,
shipped from Bavaria by STEG (US-
sponsored German corporation), is

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
the only one of its kind in Berlin. The
recovered aluminum will be turned
over to the German economy in Berlin
through distribution to American
sector industries in need of this
scarce metal for production purposes.

The British MG Food Supply Section
in Berlin authorized the release of
2,500 bars of chocolate and 484 pounds
of candy for distribution by the
magistrat to children in hospitals in
the British and US sectors of the city.
The chocolate and candy have come
from “Arctic” packs, more than
1,000,000 of which were released from
British Army stocks last year to
provide Berlin children with a mid-day
meal daily.

Berliners are using about half as
much gas now as before the war. The
city's current industrial and domestic
gas consumption is about 1,000,000
cubic meters daily, compared with
the prewar average of 2,000,000 cubic
meters.

US Zone

The number of CARE food packages
purchased during the first four months
of 1948 by Americans for recipients
in Europe showed an increase of
20 percent over the number purchased
during the same period in 1947, ac-
cording to information from CARE
headquarters in New York. CARE offi-
cials said that more food packages
were being sent to Germany than to
all other European countries com-
bined.

IRO camps for displaced persons
in the US Zone of Germany were
housing 298,225 persons as of May 1,
according to figures of the Civil
Affairs Division, EUCOM. This figure
shows that the overall camp
populations were reduced by 6,631
March 20.

British Zone

To speed construction of housing
for Ruhr miners, the US-UK Coal
Control Group has recommended to
German bizonal authorities that extra
shoes and clothing be provided for
building-trade workers engaged on
Ruhr miners’ housing, as an incentive
to higher production.

Almost 11,000 persons visited the
Flensburg Sample Exhibition during

INFORMATION BULLETIN

its first week. There are 512 ex-
hibitors.

An American reading room has
been opened in Hamburg. This is
operated under the US Consul in
Hamburg.

Approximately 500German students
of the British Zone will go to England
in September for six weeks to help
in the harvest.

No bombing of Heligoland will take
place between July 1 and 15, when
explosive trials are being held under
supervision of the British Army. Craft
and shipping may take shelter in the
harbor during this period but may be
required by the officers conducting
the trials to leave at short notice.

Total tonnage handled in the port
of Hamburg in April was the highest
achieved in any month since the war.
These figures included both imports
and exports. Actual tonnage handled
in April were deep sea, 550,168 tons,
coastwise, 151,891 tons, and river
traffic, 206,186 tons.

Soviet Zone

An American play, Eugene O'Neill's
“Mourning Becomes Electra,” was
presented in Leipzig on May 10. The
production was a box-office success
despite unfavorable review by the
official Leipzig paper of the Com-
munistic Social Unity Party, which
described the play as “reactionary.”

A reorientation of Soviet Zone
foreign trade policies was announced
by Josef Orlopp, head of the zone’s
Interzonal and Foreign Trade Depart-
ment, at the Institute of Economics
in Berlin. He said the Soviet Union
would be the main partner in the
Soviet Zone foreign trade in the
future.

A two-year plan “in the interest of
reconstruction and the development
of a peacetime economy” has been
announced for the Soviet Zone in
1949-50 by the zone’s Economics Com-
mission.

French Zone
The French Military Government
withdrew the writing ban originally
imposed on Guenther -Markscheffel,
editor of the SPD paper, Die Freiheit,
for publishing articles comparing

28

unfavorably the present food con-
ditions with those of concentration
camps.

Personnel Changes

Phillips Hawkins, director of the
Property Division, OMGUS, has been
appointed deputy to the Economic Ad-
viser in addition to his other duties.

Eric G. Gration has been named act-
ing staff secretary, OMGUS.

James E. King, Jr., who had heen-
serving as acting staff secretary, was
pamed acting US secretary, Allied Sec-

tetariat, in addition to his other
duties. He succeeded Lt. Col. H. A
Gerhardt.

Eric E. Oulashin was named deputy
to the acting US secretary, Allied
Secretariat.

Clark Denney has been appointed
chief legal adviser for the Joint Ex-
port-Import Agency. He was formerly
chief of the MG Courts Section, Legal
Division, OMGUS, and director of the
Military Division, OCCWC.

Gen. Hesketh Leaves

Brig. Gen. William Hesketh, who
was assistant to the Deputy Military
Governor since September, 1947, left
for the United States recently for retire-
ment from the US Army after 32 years’
service. His successor has not been
named.

A native of England, he was taken
by his parents to the United States at
the age of four. He enlisted in the
Rhode Island National Guard before
World War I and was commissioned a
second lieutenant before service with
the first US anti-aircraft artillery in
France.

General Hesketh served in the
United States and China-Burma-India
Theater during World War II before
his appointment a year ago as deputy
inspector-general, EUCOM.

Awards

Capt. William J.Greenwalt, assistant
operations officer of S-4, Berlin Mili-
tary Post, was awarded the Bronze
Star medal for “examplary conduct in
ground combat against the enemy dur-
ing the Rhineland campaign in the
European theater of operations,” while
serving with the 276th Regiment, 70th
Infantry Division.

JUNE 15. 1948

--- Page 32 ---
(Continued from page 5)
Berlin’s Trade Union Fight

in his view, was in accord with de-
mocratic principles.

WARE OF THE mounting dis-

satisfaction among the trade
union membership, the top SPD trade
wnionists met in December, 1947, with
union leaders of other Berlin po-
‘litical parties except the SED in an
‘effort to unify all forces in opposition
to the federation administration. A
working committee of UGO was form-
‘ed on Feb. 10, 1948, with two union
representatives each from the SPD,
‘CDU, and LDP and two nonpartisan
unionists.

Opposition morale received a con-
siderable boost when Jacob Kaiser,
recently deposed by the Soviet Mili-
tary Administration as leader of the
‘Soviet Zone CDU and one of the
surviving pre-1933 trade union leaders,
entered the fray with a rousing speech
‘at a Berlin CDU meeting.

Without entering into the merits
of the issues but desiring to afford
‘the trade union opposition an op-
portunity to express its views, US
Military Government in February
licensed two union weeklies, one as
the opposition journal and the other
as the joint organ of the two Berlin
unions of salaried employees. Each
weekly was assigned a circulation of
‘75,000 copies.

In the plant and office elections in
February for delegates ‘to borough
conferences UGO captured a majority
‘of delegates to 10 borough confer-
ences in the western sectors and sub-
sequently reported similar majorities
to conventions of seven trade unions.
In 1946, the opposition had won only
two boroughs and four trade unions.

In a large industrial plant, 69.5 per-
cent of the 1,460 eligible union voters
Participated to elect 60 delegates of
whom 51 were UGO and nine were
SED adherents. In an electoral pre-
cinct uniting employees in several
smaller enterprises in the same
borough, only 15 percent eligible vo-
ters turned out to elect the same
number of delegates of whom 53 were
SED and 7 UGO supporters,

In view of such instances, UGO has
maintained that the membership vote

“SUNE 15, 1943

would show a 60 percent UGO ma-
jority. The FDGB Executive Board has
persistently refused to disclose the
actual membership tally despite re-
peated UGO requests.

HE MOST SERIOUS obstacle in

the UGO campaign had been the
overt pressure and more subtle in-
fluences in the Soviet Sector. Active
UGO adherents were requested fre-
quently to appear for questioning at
the Soviet Kommandatura, and pro-
minent UGO leaders were forbidden

Albert H. Berman, who wrote
the article “Berlin's Trade Union
Fight,“ is the reports specialist
on industrial relations for the
Manpower Division, OMGUS.

Joining the Manpower Divi-
sion staff in December 1945, he
prepared an early study on
“Labor Organization in Berlin“
and later an extensive study on
“Labor Organization in the US
Zone (Germany).” The latter
appeared as a Special Report of
the Military Governor.

Mr. Berman was with the Office
of Inter-American Affairs in
Washington in 1943-45 where he
was reports specialist on labor
and social organization and prob-
lems in the other American
republics. He is the author of
studies on “Industrial Labor in
Brazil“ and a “Survey of Coop-
eratives in the Other American
Republics;“ and co-author of a
study on “Rural Haiti.”

to address union meetings. Fear re-
sulting from numerous disappearances
in the Soviet Sector had also had its
effect.

Despite these factors, UGO manag-
ed to secure the majority of delegates
to the city conventions of the Berlin
Railway and Post Unions. Since the
elections more than 100 railroad
guards and some postal workers are
reported to have been arbitrarily
dismissed.

The serious challenge to the SED
dynasty, presaged by UGO victories
in the first stage of the elections, was

29

averted by the simple expedient of
disqualifying numerous UGO de-
legates, particularly at those points
where UGO held only a slim edge.
The Central Election Committee had
been appointed by the FDGB Ex-
ecutive Board.

The main issue in these maneuvers
concerned a provision in the FDGB
election rules which prohibits speci-
fication of political party affiliation
of candidates to FDGB organs on the
lists of candidates posted: in plants
and offices or on the actual ballots.

Since the same rules, however,
permit the individual trade unions to
adopt their own procedures for the
election of governing bodies, the Sal-
aried Employees Union decided to
allow such designation of candidates
but only to its own conventions and
not on the ballots. The union abided
by the FDGB rules, however, in the
election of delegates to FDGB borough
conferences.

Because the two separate lists of
candidates were displayed side by
side, the Central Election Committee
disqualified UGO delegates whose
names had appeared on both tickets
on the grounds that their political
party sympathy could have been de-
duced. This action disqualified nu-
merous UGO delegates to five FDGB
borough conferences, in four of
which the UGO would otherwise have
had a majority.

A large number of UGO delegates
was disqualified to the convention of
the Public Plants and Administration
Union (second largest union) where
the UGO delegation comprised a
majority. In this way, UGO lost an
additional 46 votes at the FDGB city
conference excluding the 39 votes of
which it was deprived at the FDGB
borough conferences, Other UGO de-
legates to the convention of the Metal
Union were also denied admission.

Except for these circumstances,
UGO would have been able to secure
265 or 46 percent of the 579 delegates
to the FDGB city conference where it
could have demanded an equal share
in the administration of the feder-
ation. Instead, it found itself with
only 180 or less than one-third of the
accredited representatives. Sharp pro-
tests against rulings. of the Central

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Election Committee were countered
only with bitter denunciations of the
UGO by the FDGB Executive Board
and its members.

TRANGE TACTICS were employed

by the SED minority at the Berlin
Railway Union where UGO had an
overwhelming majority. Soon after
sessions began, a Soviet transport
officer announced that railroad work-
ers would receive pay increases in
the near future, When this promise
failed to diminish the strength of the
UGO, the SED delegates suddenly left
the convention for a caucus discus-
sion. The remaining delegates were
unable to proceed with the election
because of the disappearance of some
election lists. :

Upon their return the SED delega-
tion presented a “compromise pro-
posal" for adjournment of the con-
vention until certain matters could be
settled by a joint UGO-SED com-
mittee. A few weeks later when the
convention reopened, UGO won most
of the seats on the union executive
board and most delegates to the
FDGB city conference. However, an
SED adherent became chairman of
the union executive board.

Upon conclusion of the elections,
UGO was reorganized so that its de-
mands could be presented to the
FDGB Executive Board in the name
of elected union representatives. An
“action committee’ of 40 members
was then formed consisting of dele-
gates confirmed by an assembly of all
UGO delegates to the FDGB borough
conference and city convention and
the trade union convention.

The committee was instructed by
the meeting to urge: (1) recognition
of disqualified delegates, (2) duly-
conducted conventions in three FDGB
boroughs, (3) reassembly of two trade
union conventions with admission of
all UGO delegates, (4) withdrawal of
expulsion motions against leading
UGO delegates to trade union con-
ventions.

The resolution further declared in
effect that the true will of the mem-
bership would not have been ob-
served unless the FDGB city coa-
ference provided for UGO equality on
the new Federation executive board,
its departments and secretariats, and
the editorial board of the Tribuene.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

WO DAYS BEFORE the FDGB
city convention on May 21—23,
the FDGB Executive Board replied
that only the convention was com-

petent to decide any of these
questions,
Efforts were made to reach en

agreement during the FDGB city con-
vention at which the principal UGO
spokesmen requested a short recess
to permit UGO and SED representa-
tions to consider the problem of the
disputed delegates,

Upon denial of this motion the UGO
delegation left en masse and pro-
claimed its intention not to return
to the convention until a satisfac-
tory solution had been found. Later
that day the FDGB Executive Board,
agreed to appoint a committee for
discussion with an UGO group.

To avoid wrangling over election
technicalities, UGO proposed new
elections in five FDGB boroughs.
Reasserting that the UGO delegates
had been correctly disqualified, the
SED committee requested an UGO ex-
pression of loyality to the FDGB con-
stitution (tantamount to an avowal cf
violation), dissolution of the “action
committee” and cessation of publi-
cation of the two opposition journals.

In return for these concessions, UGO
was “offered” one-third of the 27 re-
presentatives-at-large on the new
Executive Board instead of the one-
half to which it would otherwise have
been entitled. After negotiations had
collapsed the rump conference elected
a FDGB Executive Board and
adopted numerous resolutions but
ignored those previously proposed by
the UGO.

To provide a complete explanation
of preceding events and to permit
free discussion of proposed action, an
assembly was held on May 26 of all
elected UGO delegates to FDGB and
trade union conventions, In a unani-
mously adopted resolution, the con-
ference declared that the elections
and resolutions at the FDGB city con-
ference could not be recognized since
the disqualification of a large number
of UGO delegates deprived the con-
vention of any legal authority to act
on behalf of the membership,

Demands were renewed for reel-
ections in the five disputed FDGB
boroughs and in two major trade
unions, The proposal was made

30

for a new city convention after these
elections in order to undertake the
legal election of a new FDGB Execu-
tive Board and to approve legal reso-
lutions, Until the fulfillment of these
conditions, the UGO assembly decided
to form a “trustee management” for
the union federation which would
meet those responsibilities arising
from trade union functions. Two
committees were also set up to as-
sume trusteeship tasks.

Action being taken by the two com-
mittees who would seek to test UGO
contentions that the UGO commanded
the majority support of the member-
ship and that the FDGB Executive
Board as constituted did not repre-
sent the membership will.

A trade union plebiscite was
scheduled for the week of June 7 in
all factories, shops and offices in all
sectors of Berlin, Members were asked
whether they placed confidence in
the FDGB Executive Board elected at
the city convention and whether they
wished a general membership vote
for a new directorate. The other com-
mittee was assigned to collect mem-
bership dues to be placed into a
blocked account.

Countermeasures were taken by the
FDGB Executive Board which an-
nounced that with the creation of the
“trusteeship" those responsible have
violated the Federation constitution
and could therefore no longer beloag
to the FDGB. However, this decla-
ration represented no more than a
statement of opinion since only the
trade unions were competent to
decide on expulsion charges.

Adoptions Are Sought

More than 1,000 South African
families have expressed the desire to
adopt German children, according to
officials of Die Dietze Kinderfonds
who are in the British Zone to select
100 children for emigration and
adoption.

This organization, which is officially
sponsored by the Welfare Depact-
ment of the South African Govern-
ment, will offer invitations to healthy
children of between two and eight
years of age with the further quali-
fication that they must be of Pro-
testant families.

JUNE 15, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
Prosecutor Denies
Abusing Defendants

Dr. Robert M. W. Kempner, deputy
chief prosecutor at the US war crimes
court at Nuremberg, has strongly pro-
tested the allegations that “criminal
methods and abominable torments”
had been used to obtain confessions
in the trials as set forth in a letter
from Dr. Theophil Wurm, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden bishop.

Kempner said he regretted that
Wurm had not attached any document-
ary evidence to his letter, and that
he had neither attended trials nor in-
vestigated court files in Nuremberg.
The prosecutor stressed that there are
no confessions at Nuremberg but that
all persons had been sentenced on the
basis of official German documents.

In a second letter to Kempner,
Wurm said that he had received a
letter from a defense attorney in
Dachau reporting such incidents and
telling of unfairness in the Nuremberg
trials. In addition, the bishop claimed
that there have been cases where the
defendants had been questioned under
threat of being extradited to the East,
Referring to these and other charges
of “unfairness,” Wurm requested a
review of all verdicts by a higher
court—ICD's News of Germany.

Beer Export Procedure Simplified

A new simplified procedure design-
ed to stimulate the development of
export of beer produced in the Bi-
zonal Area has been adopted by
bipartite agencies. Prospective im-
porters of German-brewed beer will
no longer have to replace the barley
used in the manufacturing process by
foodstuffs of equivalent caloric value,
but will be able to sign contracts on
a straight sale basis.

The production of beer for export,
which before the war was one of Ger-
many’s most profitable businesses,
was originally approved in July, 1947,
on condition that the prospective
importers supplied the barley to be
used in the manufacturing process,
since it was felt that the program
should not result in any loss of either
indigenous or imported food to the
bizonal economy.

Since, however, German barley is
particulary suited to the manufacture
of beer, restrictions were subsequently
relaxed to permit foreign buyers to
utilize indigenous barley, provided
they replaced the amount used with
imported grains,

This policy was further revised last
November when, because of the
general world shortage of grain
supplies, the importer was authorized
to utilize indigenous grains in ex-
change for any approved food imports
of equivalent caloric value. Despite
this modification the difficulties con-

fronting importing firms in locating,
purchasing and securing export li-
censes for replacement foods so de-
layed the fulfillment of individual
beer contracts as to make any large-
scale beer program virtually imprac-
ticable.

The most recent US/UK decision
eliminates these technical difficulties
while at the same time retaining the
principle that there should be no re-
duction in the food supply of Ger-
many caused by the export of beer.

Under the new arrangement, the
Joint Export-Import Agency will set
aside in a special account funds equal
to the cost the barley used under
each contract. This cost will be cal-
culated on the basis of the average
cost per ton, in terms of flour equi-
valent, of all foods, imported into
Germany.

The deposited funds will then be
used for food purchases for the whole
Bizonal Area, although such expend-
itures will be made only in the
currency in which payment for the
exported beer has been effected. The
foodstuffs however, will be procured
from any country willing to accept
such currency in payment.

Bipartite officials pointed out that
a JEIA deposit of $80,000 against
indigenous barley utilized in the
manufacture for export beer, would
probably bring a currency return of
between $500,000 and $600,000.

Bizonal Food Ration Boosted for Third Time

The bizonal food ration received
its third boost in three successive
months. The Bipartite Control Office
said that for June normal consumers
in four of the bizonal states and the
special Ruhr area would receive a daily
average of 1,655 calories.

The June increase meant that normal
consumers in Wuerttemberg-Baden,
Hesse, Hamburg, Bremen and the
special Ruhr area would receive about
1,655 calories daily as against 1,593 in
May and 1,560 in April. The June
ration for normal consumers in the
four states who have failed to meet
their collection and delivery obliga-

JUNE 15, 1948

tions would be approximately 1,535
calories daily.

In May the daily calory level for
normal consumers in the defaulting
states was approximately 1,350 in
Lower Saxony and Schleswig-Holstein,
1,417 in Bavaria and 1,431 in North-
Rhine Westphalia (with the exception
of the special area).

In an effort to equalize the ration in
the four defaulting states during June,
a uniform 8,500-gram bread ration was
established and the 300-gram cut in
Bavaria’s fish ration was restored,
providing an approximate daily aver-
age of 1,535 calories in these states.

31

With the single exception of bread,
bipartite officials explained, the June
tation is identical, both in compon-
ents and quantity, for all bizonal
states.

Juné food increases were in the fat
ration, which will be raised by 100
grams and the cereal allowance,
which will be raised 525 grams.

Although April's issue of dried
fruits amounted to 1,000 grams as
against the June issue of 750 grams,
bipartite officials pointed out that
half the 1,000-gram May fruit ration
was issued as a cereal substitute,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

MGR Title 15, Manpower Admini-
stration, Change 5, OMGUS, 19 April
1948, Supersedes MGR 15-632.2 thru
rest of Part 6 in C-2.

MGR Title 15,, Manpower Admini-
stration, Change 30, OMGUS, 20 April
1948, Supersedes p. 45, C-28, GTC.

Change 2 to Title 11, Commerce and
Industry, and Change 31 to General
Table of Contents, AG 014.12 (CO),
OMGUS, 25 April 1948. Supersedes
and replaces (1) MGR’s 11-1 thru 8
lines of 11-111 of Title 11, and (2)
pages 31 thru 34 in Change 26:
pages 37 and 38 in Change 2 to the
General Table of Contents. Corrected
pages. attached.

Misuse of Army Postal Service, Cir-
cular No. 40, Hq EUCOM, 1 May 1948.
Consolidates all regulations on use
of Army postal service.

Circular No. 41, Hq EUCOM, 2 May
1948, SecI—Designation of Major Com-
mands. Sec IJ—Basis for Supply of
QM Equipment for Consolidated Club
and Billet Messes: states.policy for all
consolidated messes, other than fa-
mily type, which are operated from
non-appropriated funds. Sec III—
European Command Exchange System
Ration Cards: deletes one reference.

Weekly Directive No. 18, Hq
EUCOM, 7 May 1948, as follows:

Sec I—Results of EUCOM-Command
Maintenance Inspections.

Sec II—Clarity, Brevity and Essen-
tiality of Messages. Directs weekly
check to gain improvement.

Sec II—Marking of Helmets, Me-
dical Department Personnel. Cites
authorization.

Sec IV—Proclamation of Celebration
of the Anniversary of the 1848 Ger-
man Revolution.

Sec V—Military Post and Sub-Post
Strength and Quarters Report. Changes
reports control symbol.

Sec VI—EUCOM Technical Service
Organization. Amends EUCOM letter
AG 322 GSP-AGO of 16 January 1948.

Sec VII—English Instruction for La-
bor Service Personnel. .

Sec VIII—Policies and Procedures
Governing the Use of the Hitler Yacht.
Replaces EUCOM letter AG 560 SSP-
AGO of 8 July 1947 as to booking

and charges for the yacht when not
required for official purposes.

Sec IX—Reporting of Fires and Ex-
plosions. Rescinds USFET message
S-5271 of 7 June 1946 and gives new
procedure.

Sec X—Ordnance Monthly Main-
tenance Activity Report. Rescinds
OTI No. 38 of 28 February 1947 and
cites OTI No, 62 of 20 April 1948 for
preparation and forwarding of subject
report.

Sec XI—Arrest, Search and Seizure.
Directs TI&E instruction on subject.

Sec XII—Weekly Check of Particular
Entries in Certain Personnel Records.
Gives 14th series of questions.

Sec XIII—Recruiting. Cites record
for April 23 to 29.

Sec XIV—Address of Machine Re-
cords Branch, Adjutant General's Di-
vision. Remains unchanged.

Sec XV—Amendments to Department
of the Army Circular 66, 1948. Quotes
changes under Recruiting Districts.

Sec XVI—Tires, Tubes and Batteries
for Materials Handling Equipment.
Cites Chief of Ordnance responsibility.

Sec XVII—Change in Official Address
for Hq EUCOM.

Sec XVIII—Return of Individuals
Eligible for Benefits under the Alien
Spouse Act. Corrects misinterpreta-
tion in Sec I, Weekly Directive No. 12
of 26 March 1948.

Sec XIX—Confinement and Admini-
stration of General Garrison Prisoners
and Certain Military Government Pris-
oners. Amends Sec XV of EUCOM
Circular 29 of 1948 concerning MG
prisoners.

Sec XX—Reimbursement of Com-
pleted Audits of Non-Appropriated
Funds. Give reporting procedure.

Sec XXI—Efficiency Reports. Quotes
amendment in Department of the
Army Circular 90 and Air Force Letter
35-123 CS.

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin |

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters.

“Sec XXII—Final Type Physical
Examinations. Lists stations and re-
quirements.

Sec XXIII—Issue of Maps.

Sec XXIV—Signal Corps Training
Film. Lists “Exercise Eskimo.”

Sec XXV—Temporary Seniority of
Officers. Quotes Department of the
Army Cir 116 Sec II of 27 April 1948.

Sec XXVI—Rescissions. Lists USFET-
SOP 38 of 26 November 1946 and
USFET-SOP 87 of 3 August 1946.

MGR Title 24, Important German
Legislation, Change 32, OMGUS,
10 May 1948, Supersedes p. 77, C-2,
GTC.

MGR Title 24, Important German
Legislation, Change 14, OMGUS, 10
May 1948. Supersedes MGR 24-500.15
in C-2 and C-3. Gives official English
translation of Regulation No. 5 as
amended under Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Mil-
itarism.

MGR Title 24, Important German
Legislation, Change 14, OMGUS,
10 May 1948. Supersedes MGR 24-
500.15 in C-2, Gives official English
translation of Regulation No. 7 under
the Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism.

Property Division Organization,
Staff, Memo No. 23, OMGUS, 22 May
1948, Cites certain transfers and new
addresses.

Report of Personnel on Detached
Service, AG 230.42 (PO), OMGUS,

24 May 1948.
OMGUS Action on Laenderrat Re-
quests, AG 0141 (SG), OMGUS,

25 May 1948. Cited MG replies to
D 57-2, Mailing of Newspapers to
German POW's in France; L 31-3,
Draft Law Concerning Regulations of
Claims of Expelles to Social Insur-
ance Benefits, to be Promulgated in
Bremen; L 31-7, Draft Law Amending
Law Concerning Regulation of Claims
of Expellees to Social Insurance Be-
nefits.

Export of Household and Personal
Effects. AG 524 (PD), OMGUS, 26 May
1948, Gives regulation concerning
claim to ownership prior to May 8,
1945.

DEUTSCHER VERLAG