--- Page 2 ---
ive FSi? Wisco

ncaa of US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN ecansay

COAL FOR BLOCKADED BERLIN

SQUADR

a 140 JULY 27, 1948

Be: MAIL ¢ BERLIN

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

OFFICE OF THE COMMANDER JIN CHIEF, EUROPEAN COMMAND.

x: = |

EXECuT! ve OFFICE

me MIMS Seer s roe ws eemsonN

aA oViseRS

OF F CES

FIELD OfFrFices

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

COAL FOR BLOCKADED  BER-
LIN—The first C-54 Skymaster to
arrive with coal at Tempelhof Air-
port, Berlin, from Frankfurt is shown
being unloaded. The flight was part
of the Air Force's “Operation Vitt-

les", a round-the-clock air lift
supplying the fuel and food needs
of American and Allied personnel

and of 2,400,000 Germans in the three
western sectors of Berlin who have

been isolated by the Soviet blockade.
(Army Signal Corps) I N

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations TABLE OF CONTENTS
and activities ef Military Government

and affiliated organizations. Issue No. 140 July 27, 1948
. '
Editorial Offices
Directors Building, Room 0045 Occupational Activities wrevece. from week g vw 2
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin Mail OutrofiBerliaanc, PS Bae ear eg)
Tel: 42227, 42252, 42923 :
Plan Submitted for Federal Setup. ....... 5
Editor H. Warner Waid Haitowal, Opinion 7
Assistant Editor Henry S.Matteo ie | ite eet sa
Ae US Note Protests Berlin Blockade. . . . . . .. 10
Mailing address: wes . .
tntormaifon, Butielin German Political PartiesListed. . . . . 1. sy df
Control Office OMGUS Town..MeetingsS 0.0: inioe ins fe 9 oun a oe & ee ae
Berlin, Germany : - side
The Real Issue Berlin Crisis vw ee ea GF heed
APO 742, US Army ° ” :
Suigtice Case (Part UT) wy vec or, «7 oy copes aL,
Correspondence in the United States
Official Instructionss..6 «( wi « « § @ Wt a Bie eo

coneerning articles and distribution
Should be made to:
Reports & Analysis Branch
Civil Affairs Division
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D.C.

Printing and distribution of the
Magazine is handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.

Reprint i a
ma for dnynaeticley ‘isles? 68 OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH

Sithor oreoiitcs cited with the artteles, BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OMGUS

A comprehensive survey, designed
as a reference book for persons
interested in federal institutions and
federal-state relations in other coun-
tries, has been prepared by the Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS. It
is being translated into German.

Philip W. Thayer, professor of inter-
national law at the Foreign Service
Educational Foundation in Washing-
ton, has arrived in Berlin as a special
consultant to the Legal Division,
OMGUS.

Reduction of the American personnel
at DENA, US-licensed German news
agency, to one liaison officer was
announced by the Press Branch, In-
formation Control Division, OMGUS.

A group of American steel experts
arrived in Berlin to discuss steel pro-
duction with OMGUS officials. Later
the group began a survey tour of the
western zones.

Bipartite Agencies

The Bipartite Control Office an-
nounced that 3,500 tons of dehydrated
potatoes are being purchased for air
shipment to blockaded Berlin. This
will reduce the bulk of food cargoes
flown to the city by plane. The dried
potatoes are being obtained from
England and will be paid for by the
United Kingdom as part of her con-
tribution toward feeding Germany.

Richard C. Simonson, former chief
of the Bipartite Civil Service Group,
has returned to the United States.
Major W. A. T. Wade, British member
of the group, is serving as acting
chairman.

The Bizonal Area will import
222,000 tons of crude oil during the
second half of 1948. The step-up from
the 90,000 tons imported during the
first half of the year reflects the in-
creased refining capacity being made

INFORMATION BULLETIN

available in the Bizonal area. The
refining reactivation program calls
for crude oil imports in 1949 of
750,000 tons during the first of the
year and 1,000,000 tons during the
latter half.

JEIA

A contract was approved between
Cassella Farbwerke Mainkur, a che-
mical and dyestuff plant in Fechen-
heim, near Frankfurt, and the World
Commerce Corporation of New York,
calling for the manufacture and ex-
port of dyes totaling $1,543,330. It is
expected that the German economy
will benefit by more than $1,000,000.

The purchase of 33,800 tons of Swe-
dish pulp for $5,536,690 was announced
by JEIA for delivery this year. The
pulp will be turned over to German
industry for manufacture into paper
and tire cord, and for use in textiles
for export.

Bizonal Activities

Increased water levels in the Rhine
River at the end of June enabled
craft to load up to 95 percent of ca-
pacity. The Weser and Elbe River
levels remained low, and almost all
traffic from Bremen to the Ruhr had
to take the Kursten and Dortmundé-
Ems route.

The Czechoslovak Ministry of
Transport has been authorized to

The section on Occupational
Activities is compiled from the
Semimonthly Report of Military
Government 93, official announ-
cements by MG and affiliated
organizations, and public inform-
mation offices throughout the
US Zone, to give a summary of
ation offices throughout the
occupied area of Germany.

increase its transit goods traffic f
the Bizonal Area to 10,000 tons
month, involving the use of 200 y
hicles. ‘

The 1947—48 farm-to-market deliv.
eries of grain as of May 31 amounte¢
to 1,895,700 tons in flour equivalent
or 88 percent of the year's quot
The deliveries of potatoes amounte
to 3,773,300 tons or 73 percent
the year’s quota.

Total fellings of all woods in
first eight months (Oct. 1, 1947—Mi
31, 1948) of the forestry year amount
to almost 5,500,000,000 board
representing 73 percent of the cutt:
program for the year. Seventy-eight
percent of the amount cut has bi
delivered to buyers. Firewood and
soft mine-timber  fellings we
90 percent of their programs.

A 14-day cold spell brought to 7
sudden halt the rapid-spreading ma
infestation of German soil by the
colorado beetle, which, according to
earlier reports, was seriously threat
ening this year's potato crop.

Fertilizer distribution for agri
tural purposes in the first 11 mont
of the current crop year amoun
to approximately 211,900 tons
nitrogen, 186,600 tons of phosphate
and 373,900 tons of potash. fi

The continued shortage of sodé
ash deliveries to the soap industr
has increased the number of stopp:
at plants producing washing ag

Western Germany

Reports for 1947 on traffic in opiw
and other dangerous drugs, require
by international opium conventions
are being compiled for the US,
and French zones for forwarding
the Narcotics Commission of #
United Nations. The 1946 repo
covering the fours zones of Germa

(Continued on Pag

JULY 27, i

--- Page 6 ---
he mail must go through!

That traditional byword of the
American postal authorities has-taken
on renewed glamor in Berlin these

days as the American occupation
forces and the German postal author-
ities have combined efforts to foil
attempts to sever the natural flow of
mail and parcel post out of Berlin and
isolate the city from contact with
a large part of Germany.

Since March, Soviet authorities have
striven without success to gain uni-
lateral control of all postal facilities.
Mail and parcel post packages are
still going out of Berlin to their de-
stinations in western Germany.

Four-power accord had characteriz-
ed efforts in the communications field
from the beginning of the occupation
until. the suspension of quadripartite
meetings on March 20, and sustained
progress had equalled that in any
other field of quadripartite activity.
Step by step, postal services had been
restored to a point approaching the
prewar level, zonal boundaries not-
withstanding.

Then, 10 days after the last quadri-
partite meeting, a stubborn “curtail
the mail” policy appeared under
auspices of the Soviet Military Ad-
ministration, despite its quadripartite
commitments.

The first step was to impose a
blockade on German parcel post from
Berlin to the three western zones.
The impetus of the normal service
choked parcel post facilities in the
city when the outlet was suddenly
blocked. Before word of the blockade
was spread in Berlin half a million
parcels had piled up.

At Post Office SW77 a short dist-
ance inside the US Sector lirie near
the center of the city, 116 loaded mail
cars were backlogged. On nearby rail-
toad sidings and under special guard
were 15 more cars filled with parcel
Post for the western zones. Every inch

JULY 27, 1948

’ ou
BE

By Richard J. Elwood

Reports Officer, Communications
Group, Office of the Economic
Adviser, OMGUS

R

A member of the first group
of interns sent to Germany in
late 1946 as career MG person-
nel, Mr. Elwood spent six months
with the Press Branch of Infor-
mation Control Division, OM-
GUS, and six months in training
in all phases of Military Govern-
ment in Berlin and in the zone.
Since November, 1947, he has
been with the Communications
organization in OMGUS. He was
graduated from Iowa _ State
Teachers College, with graduate
work at the University of Iowa,
and during the war served three
and half years as a Navy flier
in the United States and in the
Pacific.

of storage space in that post office
and others in the vicinity was
crammed with packages.

IOURTEEN MONTHS ago thé four

deputy military governors agreed
at a meeting of the Coordinating
Committee that parcel post service
between Berlin and the three western
zones would be resumed on May 15,
1947, They accepted the weight and
size limits, contents restrictions, and
rates, recommended by their sub-
ordinates to regulate the service,

Details of implementation, worked
out by the German Postal System,
routed all packages posted in Berlin
and addressed to the three western
zones to Post Office SW77 for load-
ing and consignment by rail through
the Berlin-Helmstedt corridor. The
service operated so smoothly that by
March 1, the volume of parcels being
sent through the corridor to the
western zones had grown to 30,000
daily.

During March, however, the first in-
dication of an ultimate breakdown in
this type of service appeared. Early
that month a backlog of packages
began to accumulate at SW77 when
Berlin officials of the Soviet Transport
Division restricted to five the number
of cars of western zone parcel post

Sacks containing three tons of German mail are loaded at Tempelhof
Airport, Berlin, aboard a C-47 US Army plane by two enlisted men

for a flight to Frankfurt.

(Army Signal Corps)

--- Page 7 ---
that would be-accepted in Berlin for
transportation through the corridor
each.“day. ‘However, bilateral ne-
gotiations between US Military Gov-
emment and the SMA. resulted in
ithe prompt removal of the backlog.
A’-similar situation arose again later
in March, and was resolved with
equal dispatch.

ITHOUT NOTICE on April 1,

the Soviet Zonal Reichsbahn
Transportation Division refused to
accept from the German Postal System.
any mail cars loaded with parcel post
addressed to the western zones. Im-
mediate attemps by Military Gov-
ernment to reach a solution through
the previously successful channels
were fruitless.

The matter was under discussion
throughout April among US, British,
and French Military Government
authorities on one hand and Soviet
authorities on the other. At the same
time Berlin postal officials made con-
stant efforts to meet the somewhat
obscure requirements quoted by local
transportation officials so that the
loaded mail cars would be acceptable
for transport through the corridor. All
efforts were without avail, and
failed even to elicit from Soviet
authorities an official statement in
support of the unilateral ban.

Not until early in May was the
situation clarified. On May 6 the
Taegliche Rundschau, the official
Soviet German-language newspaper
of the Soviet Military Administration,
published a new set of regulations
for the parcel post service from Ber-
lin to the western zones, as set forth
by the Central Administration for
Posts and. Telecommunications, Ger-
man Economic Commission for the
Soviet Occupation Zone; and on May
8 the same newspaper published a
“clarification” of the earlier item.

The regulations presumed juris-
diction by a Soviet zonal agency over
the quadripartite-controlled city of
Berlin. Further, by adding the restrict-
ions applied by the Universal Postal
Union on international parcel post
to those approved by the Allied Con-
trol] Authority, the new regulations
in effect set up Berlin as a separate
postal state from the viewpoint of the
three western zones. In addition to
these two sets of restrictions on con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

tents, the unilateral enactment added
“food, liquor, extracts, essences and
spices.”

- Five post offices in the Soviet
Sector were designated to accept all
Berlin parcel post addressed to the
western zones, regardless of the sec-
tor of the sender's residence. These
post offices alone, according to the
regulations, would have facilities for
examination by postal employees of
the content of all packages posted.

Any parcels held in post offices on
May 10, the effective date of the
promulgation, would be subject to
inspection and forwarding under the
newly prescribed procedure, or to
return at the sender's request. Inclu-
sion of prohibited articles would be
grounds for confiscation of packages
mailed on May 10 or after, but food,
etc, would not be removed from par-
cels mailed prior to that date.

On May 19 an official of the
Soviet Transport Division ordered
German Postal System officials to un-
load the 131 mail cars, The postal
authorities refused to observe the
order on the grounds that Post
Office SW 77, because it is located
in the US Sector, was not under the
jurisdiction of the Soviet agency.

A week later, the same official
notified US Military Government that
it would be billed for: demurrage
accruing on the unloaded mail cars.
No bill, however, has been received
to date; but if one should be com-
puted at the standard rate it wouid
exceed 2,000,000 marks,

URING THE first month of parcel

post service under the unilateral
Soviet controlled regulations approx-
imately 120,000 packages were trans-
ported from the five Soviet Sector
post offices to the western zones.
That quantity represented only four
days' volume when parcels were
freely accepted under the quadripart-
ite agreement.

Parcel post service between the
Soviet Zone and the western zones
was never resumed after the war,
aithough it was on quadripartite
agendas as a US proposal for two
years.

The Soviet-supervised agencies turn-
ed to first class mail after its initial
success in slopping parcel post. For

4

11 days late in June while the western
Allies were organizing the air-lift
supply line to break the Soviet-
imposed blockade of Berlin, no Ger-
man mai] got out of the city.

When sufficient space became
available on June 30 in US cargo
planes returning to Frankfurt, the US
Air Forces came to thé assistance of
the German Postal System, and Ber-
liners in the western sectors had
airmail service at surface mail rates,
The German Postal System simul-
taneously placed a temporary 50-gram
(1.7-ounce) maximum on _ outgoing
mail from the western sectors to
prevent flooding the limited air
facilities,

A temporary post office was set up
at Tempelhof Air Base to handle the
unprecedented volume of airmail,
Special military arrangements were
made to escort German postal trucks
onto the Rhine-Main Air Field near
Frankfurt to pick up the mail bags,
In three drays 110 tons of first class
international and interzonal mail were
flown out. Also, on July 1, the
emergency airmail service began car-
rying out the backlog of parcel post.
Although space and time would not
permit a speedy removal of the
packages, the steady paring at the
mass of accumulated parcel post had
made appreciable progress by mid-
July. 7

But most heartening to postal men
in the Western World is that a prin-
ciple has once more been maintained.
Even in Berlin where postal stoppage
has become a new political weapon,
determined men are still saying,
“The mail must go through,” and
making it stick.

Foreign Money Privileges

Czech refugees residing in Hesse
will be accorded the same foreign
exchange assets privileges extended
to displaced persons, according to
the OMGH finance branch.

Hessian state banks will accept
foreign currencies, including Czech
money, for safe deposit from all
Czechs who fled their homeland and
entered the US Zone after Jan. 31.
These assets will be returned to their
owners upon their authorized depart-
ure from Germany.

JULY 27, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
PLAN SUBMITTED FOR FEDERAL SETUP

Principles of Government for Three Western Zones Are Contained
In Papers Presented to Ministers President by Military Governors

HREE DOCUMENTS setting forth
the principles for a federal type
government for Germany were pre-
sented by the military governors of
the western occupying powers to the
ministers president of the 11 state gov-
ernments of the three zones at a
conference in Frankfurt July 2.

The documents, based on the re-
commendations of the London Six-
Power Conference, call for a consti-
tuent assembly to draft a constitution
for a German federal government, an
examination of zonal boundaries to
determine what modifications are
necessary, and a presentation of
views regarding relationship of the
new government with the occupying
powers.

The military governors said their
representatives will be available to
advise and assist the ministers presi-
dent and the constituent assembly in
any matters which may be brought
to their attention.

Dr, Reinhold Maier, minister presi-
dent of Wuerttemberg-Baden, speak-
ing for the German officials, said the
state executives, after considering the
documents and obtaining the views
of their governments, would advise
the military governors when they
would be ready for a subsequent
meeting for further discussions of
these subjects.

The contents of the three documents
follow:

On Constituent Assembly

The military governors of the US,
UK and French Zones of Occupation
in Germany, in accordance with the
decisions of their respective govern-
ments, authorize the ministers presi-
dent of the states of their respective
zones to convene a constituent as-
Sembly to be held not later than
Sept. 1, 1948,

The delegates to this assembly will
be chosen in each of the existing
states under such procedure and re-
gulations as shall be adopted by the

JULY 27, 1948

legislative body of each of these
states. The total number of delegates
to the constituent assembly will be
determined by dividing the total pop-
ulations at the last census by
750,000 or some similar figure as may
be recommended by the ministers
president and approved by the mili-
tary governors. The number of dele-
gates from each state will be in the
same proportion to the total member-
ship of the constituent assembly that
its population is to the total popu-
lation of the participating states.

The constituent assembly will draft
a democratic constitution which will
establish for the participating states
a governmental structure of federal
type which is best adapted to the
eventual reestablishment of German
unity at present disrupted, and which
will protect the rights of the parti-
cipating states, provide adequate cen-
tral authority,.and contain guarantees
of individual rights and freedoms.

If the constitution as prepared by
the constituent assembly does not con-
flict with these general principles the
military governors will authorize its
submission for ratification. The con-
stituent assembly will thereupon be
dissolved. The ratification will take
place by each participating state by
means of a referendum ‘requiring a
simple majority of the votes in each
state under such rules and procedure
as it may adopt. When the con-
stitution has been ratified by two-
thirds of the states, it will come into
force and be binding upon all states.
Thereafter, any amendment to the
constitution must be ratified by a like
majority of the states. Within 20 days
following the coming into force of
the constitution, the institutions for
which it provides shall be established.

Concerning Boundaries

The ministers president are asked
to examine the boundaries of the
several states in order to determine
what modifications they may want to

5

propose. Such modifications should
take account of traditional patterns,
and avoid, to the extent feasible, the
creation of states which are either

too large or too small in comparison
with the other states.

If these recommendations are not
disapproved by the military govern-
ors, they should be submitted for the
approval of the people of the affected
areas not later than the time when
the members of the constituent as-
sembly are chosen,

Prior to the completion of the work
of the constituent assembly, the
ministers president will take the
necessary steps for the election of the
assemblies of those states, the
boundaries of which have been modi-
fied, so that these assemblies and
those of the states, the boundaries
of which have not been modified,
will be in a position to determine
the electoral procedures and regula-
tions for the ratification of the con-
stitution.

German-Allied Relations

The establishment of a constitutional
German government will necessitate
careful definition of the relationship
between this government and the
Allied authorities.

It is the view of the military
governors that this relationship should
be based on the following general
principles:

a. The military governors will grant
legislative, executive and judicial
power to German governments and
reserve to themselves such powers
as are necessary to ensure the fulfill-
ment of the basic purpose of the
occupation. Such powers are those to
enable the military governors to:

(a) Conduct or direct for the time
being Germany's foreign relations.

(b) Exercise the minimum control
over German foreign trade, and over
internal policies and. measures which

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
could adversely affect foreign trade,
necessary to ensure a respect for
obligations entered into by the
occupying powers in regard to Ger-
many and the proper use of funds
made available to Germany.

(c) Exercise such controls as have
been or may be agreed upon, as for
example, regarding the international
authority for the Ruhr, reparations,
the level of industry, decartelization,

disarmament and _  demilitarization,
and certain aspects of scientific
research.

(d) Protect the prestige and ensure
the security of the occupation forces
and the satisfaction of their require-
ments within defined limits agreed
upon between the military governors.

(e) Ensure the observance of the
constitution which they have approved.

b. The military governors will
resume their exercise of their full
powers in an emergency threatening
security, and if necessary to secure
compliance with the constitutions or
the occupation statute.

c. The military governors will
exercise the above-mentioned con-
trols, according to the following
procedure:

(a) Any amendments to the con-
stitutions will be submitted to the
approval of the military governors.

(b) In the fields mentioned in a) to
e) of paragraph a. above, the German
authorities will comply with the
decisions or directions of the military
governors.

(c) Unless otherwise provided, in
particular for implementation of
paragraph b) above, all laws and
regulations emanating from the federal
government shall come into force
automatically within 21 days unless
disapproved by the military governors,

The military governors will have
a special responsibility to observe,
advise and assist the federal and state
governments in regard to the demo-
cratization of political life, social
relations and education. This shall
not imply any restrictions of the
legislative, executive and judicial
competence accorded to these govern-
ments in these matters.

The military governors request the
ministers president to submit their
observations on the above principles.
The military governors will then

INFORMATION BULLETIN

communicate these broad principles,
modified as they may then agree, to
the constituent assembly, as a guide
to that body in its work of preparing
the constitution, and will receive
from it the observations which it may
wish to put forward. When'the military
governors announce their approval for
the submission of the constitution fo
the states they will publish simul-
taneously an occupation statute in-
corporating these principles as finally
modified in order that the people of
the states may understand that they
accept the constitution within the
framework of this occupation statute.

Church is Given Grant

The Roman Catholic Church of
Berlin was given a grant of 40,000
marks from the US Military Govern-
ment reorientation fund, The money
was to be used for various approved
projects involving adult education,
translation of theological reference
books, and the training of church
musicians.

Ruhr Recruiting Drops

The sharp decline in recruiting for
the Ruhr coal mines during the last
few months was ascribed to the “Bo-
nus B" plan of JEIA and other induce-
ments offered by manufacturers in
the US Zone. .

In addition, newspaper accounts and
stories brought back by returned re-
cruits told of unfavorable Ruhr
housing and working conditions, Other
influence were the prospects of jobs
in France under the Franco-American
recruiting scheme, and administrative
difficulties, such as shortages of per-
sonnel, office equipment, and vehicles
at the Hoechst Assembly Center,
which hampered the recruiting cam-
paign—From Military Governor's
Monthly Report No. 34.

39,959,439 Evangelists

The Evangelical Church in Ger
many reported a total current mem-
bership of 39,959,439 in the four
zones of occupation as compared to
38,969,009 in 1939.

(Army Signal Corps)

Lt. Col. William G. Davidson, Jr., deputy chief of the Public Information
Division, Hq. EUCOM, at Heidelberg, studies Special Paoting medal
and citation awarded to him by the Chinese government for supervising
the administration of a post-war program in Washington whereby
Chinese students were sent to the United States for instruction and

training in aviation.

6

JULY 27, 1948

4

--- Page 10 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

Money Reform Clears Way for New Start

With the first announcement of
currency reform on June 18, editorials
reflected deepening gloom and an
increasingly negative attitude that was
not immediately dispelled when ten-
sion was broken by promulgation of
MG Law 61.

Most papers added pages or issued
special editions to publish the full
text of the law, usually with photo-
graphs of the new currency. A few
papers found time too short to com-
ment,

Many said that with the true facts
at last evident the way was clear for
a new start. Some blamed Nazis,
others said that if anything went
wrong with the reform the Americans
would be responsible.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
pointed out that while “some months
ago the announcement of currency
reform was generally received with
unfeigned satisfaction, the mood during
the last few weeks changed and hope
turned into oppressive misgiving." It
added:

“The ever-repeated announcements
and almost never-failing denials have

- probably increased rather than blunted
fears and doubts. This unmistakable
reversal of the public mood indicates
that our people feel that, with the
surplus money, veils are going to be
torn away, and that the plain view
will demand strong nerves.”

Dr. Karl Debus wrote in the Mittel-
bayerische Zeitung (Regensburg)
about the experiences of an editor-in-
chief on X-Day (20 June):

“Anybody who felt the public ten-
sion could not doubt that we were
living through a historical day. Old
editors have so many ‘historical days’
behind them, but as to nervous strain
none has surpassed this one. We know
that we stand at a turning point not
only of our economic fate, but that a
new political day has dawned which
will be followed by weeks and months
of historical rearrangements in West-
em Germany, in the Soviet Zone, in

JULY 27, 1948

the whole of Europe. The currency
reform is part and parcel of a world-
political decision that will shape our
whole lives... In any case, confusion
subsides and a path opens.”

The Giessener Freie Presse in an
article titled “His Majesty, the Pfen-
nig" described the probable results of
the currency reform:

“The currency reform as such creates
no new factories, no new agricultural
areas, no raw materials and no con-
sumer goods. It is merely an attempt

to restore purchasing power to
income earned by honest labor... We
will all learn to esteem the pfennig
again; its coronation day will be this
fateful June 21, 1948... Many busi-
nesses will close ... Unemployment
will threaten us again. But it is to be
hoped that the Marshall Plan will help
us back to economic terra firma...
We view the accomplished separation
from East Germany with heavy hearts,
but will never abandon the hope that
these ties one day will be renewed.”

The Oberbayerisches Volksblatt (Ro-
senheim) said currency reform will not
eliminate the black market. It declared:

“There is only one remedy against
black markets — a surplus of goods.
Although currency reform is a prere-
quisite, normalization of our produc-
tion is also dependent upon removal
of political restrictive factors, such as
dismantling, Ruhr control, JEIA, and

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board of the Informa-
tion Control Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press, The publishing of
these translations is intended to
inform the readers among the
occupational forces of what the
Germans are writing and think-
ing, and not necessarily to give
any concurrence to their views
and opinions.

~ S$
production prohibitions” in certain
lines... To be realistic, we should

recognize that the black market is
based on economic law. It should be
legalized, and participation punished
only insofar as real crimes, such as
theft, counterfeiting of food ration
cards, etc. are involved.”

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
at the end of an article on currency
reform turned to the question of Ber-
lin:

“After the events of the last few
weeks and months it is hardly imagin-
able that the Allies will come to an
agreement about a currency reform for
Berlin. There can be only one logical
solution: the western sectors of Berlin
must be included in the currency re-
form of the West in order to demon-
strate that Berlin is in fact an advance
base of western democracy and shall
remain so." :

The Passauer Neue Presse gaid:
“The currency reform must be a tutn-
ing point, economically as well as
morally. Failure would mean col-
lapse... Workers and employees these
days look with anxiety to the firms
that employ them. They have worked
for three years for bad money. Now
there will probably be shady bosses
who ... will throw those on the street
to whom they owe the chance to be-
gin anew.”

Cause for Optimism

Reaction to the Six-Power Agree-
ment in London ranged from lukewarm
to unfavorable, with the Ruhr upper-
most in editors’ minds. Imposition of
international control as well as fail-
ure to establish Trizone were blamed
on the French. Strong demands were
voiced for an occupation statute and
direct elections to the constituent
assembly.

The Frankfurter Neue Presse weighed
the London resolutions and found
cause for optimism:

“After all, although it would have
been better if Germans sat at the con-
ference table when these most im-
portant decisions were made, it must
be admitted that German viewpoints

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
and opinions were carefully taken
into consideration, particularly by the
United States and Great Britain, and
that the tenor and language of the
London communique envisages a free
and democratic governmental form fer
Germany ... The document of June 7,
1948 may be regarded as a step for-
ward... The door to further and better
developments has wisely been left
open.”

The Offenbach Post spoke of a “feel-
ing of profound disappointment” arous-
ed by the final report of the London
Conference:

“We hoped that the conference
would overcome the zonal boundaries
which are the chief cause of our
misery. We expected a miracle. Instead
we got a veiled admission that the
western powers still differ as to our
future.”

Examining the conference results in
detail the paper said:

“We have no occupation statute ...
We may not leave our boundaries.
We had hopes that a western German
constituent assembly could meet on

~ Sept. 1, 1948, and that in January a
western German government could be
in office on the basis of this consti-
tution and could exercise rights that
would clearly differentiate it from our
present shadow governments. But
nothing of the sort has been adopted.”

The Echo der Woche (Munich) said
the fact that a German central govern-
ment would have no voice in disposing
over Ruhr products would “tie a heavy
stone around its neck," and “if the
principle of international control of
German industry was to remain per-
manent as stipulated, then the Lor-
raine, Luxembourg and Belgian iron
and coal industries, as well as the
Dutch Rhine ports, should also be put
under international control.”

The London proposals state “nothing
positive about such problems as the
level of German industrial potential,
dismantling, and free German export
trade ... these questions, however,
will.be decisive for economic resur-
gence or further decline in Germany.”

The Giessener Freie Presse also
found in the Ruhr the crux of the Lon-
don agreements:

“For Germany the question in what
form the western zones can be made
into a political unit is of lesser im-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

portance . More important is the
danger that the distribution of the
production of the Ruhr will become a
bloodletting that will put punch into
eastern propaganda theses ... The
Ruhr question absolutely demands a
western European economic union...
It would be an unimaginable tragedy
if the freer thinking of the Americans
demonstrated in the Marshall Plan
should go under in the brambles of
European petty politics and historical
resentments. In this connection we
endorse the word of the Swiss Welt-
woche: ‘It is not a too much, but a
too little of American initiative and
leadership that could endanger the
western block and the security of
Europe.”

The Volkswille (Schweinfurt) de-
clared the London decisions deprive
any future German state of its econ-
omic foundations:

“In their Duesseldorf conference the
ministers president expressed general
German opinion when they disputed
the justification for international con-
trol of the Ruhr... Since Germany has
lost the Saar and Upper Silesian coal
deposits, Ruhr coal will have to supply
all of German industry as well as
provide fuel for home consumption
throughout the southwest ... Once
before brutal economic power politics
proved to be a decisive obstruction to

8

German children in Mannheim try out their new shoes, donated by @
German-language newspaper in New York through CRALOG. (DENA-Bild)

understanding... The vital interests of
German industry and German right to
self-determination must not be dis-
regarded.”

The Wiesbadener Kurier took issue
with the nationalistic tone adopted b
Dr. Adenauer, chairman of Christian —
Democratic Union of the British Zone, —
in discussing the London proposals;

“Dr. Adenauer’s tone reminds us
painfully of the attacks made by the
German nationalists on the Weim
coalition after World War I. Adenauer ~
sees in the London proposals evidence
that the Western Powers want to
create a system ... of forced labor for
all of Germany. It is bitter to have
concede that the sharp reprimand
coming from England is justified , ,\_

“In judging the London proposals
we must keep in mind the sober fact —
that Germany now has to bear the
consequences of the criminal war st
ed by Hitler... There is much in -
these proposals that raises doubts in”
our minds. For instance, the disregard
of the German suggestion to place all _
of Europe's industrial centers under -
international control... a

“Let us announce our objections and
keep our aim in mind — a peace- q
loving, healthy, sovereign Germany
— but let us renounce nationalistic —
gestures and trust that time will not —
stand still, The London recommend-

JULY 27, ¥

--- Page 12 ---
ations mark a start, not the last
word.”

The Marburger Presse called on Ger-
mans to face realities:

“The situation of the German people
is evident. It borders on the hope-
less... The only way out is the will
to work, cool judgment and realism...
But wide circles of the German people
have learned nothing from the Hitler
times and continue to forget or ignore
their own past sins, while hotly enlarg-
ing on the mistakes of others... The
most depressing aspect is that men
of intelligence, who should know
better, use this ruinous characteristic
of the German people for their own
ends...

“We hope that Germans will not
again label their Eberts, Rathenaus
and Stresemanns traitors, while regard-
ing the gentlemen of another future
Harzburger front as representatives of
true German interests. May they turn
their backs to nationalistic braggarts,
whose activities were once before the
curtain-raiser to a time of evil.”

‘‘Cultural Imports”

A Military Government search for
suitable reorientation lecturers and the
disclosure that a sum of $100,000 is
available to pay them inspired an
ironical editorial entitled ‘Cultural
Imports for $100,000" in Sueddeutsche
Zeitung (Munich):

“A hundred thousand dollars is a
nice bit of money. It speaks well for
a Military Government that sets aside
such a large sum for cultural purposes.
But just because it is a large sum of
money for our standards and because
these dollars could really achieve so
much that is really vital, useful and
enduring, it would be wrong to register
gratitude...

“Military Government should go a
step further and shelve military prin-
ciples in spending this money... Va-
cation courses for foreign professors
could have been arranged, our uni-
versities could have been equipped
with new science books unobtainable
otherwise. It would have been easy to
think up something fruitful...

“We are too poor and mentally
exhausted to be able to get anything
out of a dollar-paid People’s University
of the ‘KdF' (culture through lectures}

JULY 27, 1948

Pfc Robert C. Wilson has been placed aboard an L—5 liaison plane for
a flight from the Grafenwohr training center to Munich, to undergo an
emergency operation. He was taken ill while on maneuvers with the

1st Infantry Division.

(Army Signal Corps)

type. We hope that the culture budget
for 1948 will be better applied.”

Lack of Remorse

The Frankfurter Neue Presse com-
mented on the last words of the seven
SS physicians who were hanged at
Landsberg. The paper found their lack
of remorse almost as shocking as the
atrocities committed by them. It quot-
ed Reich physician Dr. Mrugovski: "I
die as a German officer through a
brutal enemy.”

It also quoted a book on the medical
experiments of the SS compiled by
two German physicians who described
how healthy girls had their legs am-
putated: “Under similar circumstances
a Ukrainian girl had one arm and
parts of both shoulders amputated.
She, too, was killed through an in-
jection.”

The paper continued: “These girls
surely wept and screamed and pleaded.
It did them no good... It was possible
to think that these physicians in view
of the gallows would have an aware-
ness of what they had done... But
they remained true to themselves.
They had had no mercy and they
spoke no word of repentance.”

9

Patricia Praised

The Frankfurter Neue Presse said
that advance publicity given the 20-
year-old American violinist, Patricia
Travers, aroused scepticism, then
added:

“Many thought: This is probably
largely propaganda fame, correspond-
ing to the currently all-too-frequent
idolization of everything American—
at the most a hothouse virtuosity in
typically-American sensational make-
up. But the Frankfurt listeners had
occasion to discover the truth for
themselves,

“The impression made by the artist
who carried herself in a pleasantly
simple fashion, not at all like a star,
was really amazing; a faultlessness in
technical execution the like of which
we do not possess in Germany today.
Everything was rendered so naturally
and effortlessly that the difficulties in
these works were completely obliter-
ated. Is it then a phenomenon of mere
virtuosity after all? One could believe
that... But in the tones that this
violinist draws from her famous in-
strument one hears more; there, un-
mistakably, something spiritual be-
comes audible.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
US NOTE PROTESTS BERLIN BLOCKADE

Says Soviet Actions Have Created an Extremely Serious Situation;
Insists on Free Traffic; Suggests Talks to Resolve Differences

Following is the text of US note
delivered July 6 at Washington to the
government of the Soviet Union
through its ambassador to the United
States, Alexander Panyushkin.

HE UNITED STATES Government

wishes to call to the attention of
the Soviet government the extremely
serious international situation which
has been brought about by the actions
of the Soviet government in imposing
restrictive measures on _ transport
which amount now to a blockade
against the sectors in Berlin occupied
by the United States, Great Britain
and France.

The United States Government re-
gards these measures of blockade in
Germany as clear violation of exist-
ing agreements concerning the ad-
ministration of Berlin by the four
occupying powers.

The rights of the United States as
a joint occupying power in Berlin
derive from the total defeat and un-
conditional surrender of Germany.
The international agreements under-
taken in connection therewith by the
governments of the United States,
United Kingdom, France and the So-
viet Union defined the zones in Ger-
many and the sectors in Berlin which
are occupied by these powers. They
established the quadripartite control
of Berlin on a basis of friendly
cooperation which the Government of
the United States earnestly desires to
continue to pursue,

The agreements implied the right
of free access to Berlin. This right has
long been confirmed by usage. It was
directly specified in a message sent
by President Truman to Premier Stalin
on June 14, 1945, which agreed to the
withdrawal of United States forces to
the zonal boundaries, provided satis-
factory arrangements could be entered
into between the military commanders,
which would give access by rail, road
and air to United States forces in
Berlin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Premier Stalin replied on June 16
suggesting a change in date but no
other alteration in the plan proposed
by the President. Premier Stalin then
gave assurances .that all necessary
measures would be taken in accord-
ance with the plan. Correspondence
in a similar sense took place between
Premier Stalin and Mr, Churchill.

N ACCORDANCE with this under-

standing, the United States, whose
armies had penetrated deep into
Saxony and Thuringia, parts of the
Soviet Zone, withdrew its forces to
its own area of occupation in Ger-
many and took up its position in its
own sector in Berlin. Thereupon the
agreements in regard to the occu-
pation of Germany and Berlin went
into effect.

The United States would not have
so withdrawn its troops from a large
area now occupied by the Soviets had
there been any doubt whatsoever
about the observance of its agreed
right of free access to its sector of
Berlin. The right of the United States
to its position in Berlin thus stems
from precisely the same source as the
right of the Soviet Union. It is im-
possible to assert the latter and deny
the former. .

It clearly results from these under-
takings that Berlin is not a part of
the Soviet Zone, but is an inter-
national zone of occupation. Commit-
ments entered into in good faith by
the zone commanders, and_ sub-
sequently confirmed by the Allied
Control Authority, as well as prac-
tices sanctioned by usage, guarantee
the United States together with other
powers, free access to Berlin for the
purpose of fulfilling its responsibilities
as an occupying power. The facts are
plain. Their meaning is clear. Any
other interpretation would offend all
the rules of comity and reason.

In order that there should be no
misunderstanding whatsoever on this
point, the United States Government

10

categorically asserts that it is in
occupation of its sector in Berlin
with free access thereto as a matter
of established right deriving from the
defeat and surrender of Germany and
confirmed by formal agreements
among the principal allies. It further
declares that it will not be induced
by threats, pressures or other actions
to abandon these rights. It is hoped
that the Soviet government enter-
tains no doubts whatsoever on this
point.

HIS GOVERNMENT now shares

with the governments of France
and the United Kingdom the respon-
sibility initially undertaken at Soviet
request on July 7, 1945, for the phy-
sical well-being of 2,400,000 persons
in the western sectors of Berlin.

Restrictions recently imposed by
the Soviet authorities in Berlin have
operated to prevent this government
and the governments of the United
Kingdom and of France from fulfilling
that responsibility in an adequate
manner.

The responsibility which this gov-
ernment bears for the physical well-
being and the safety of the German
populations in its sector of Berlin
subject to its authority is outstand-
ingly humanitarian in character. This
population includes hundreds of
thousands of women and children,
whose health and safety are de-
pendent on the continued use of ade-
quate facilities for moving food, med-
ical supplies and other items in-
dispensable to the maintenance of
human life in the western sectors of
Berlin.

The most elemental of those human
rights which both our governments
are solemnly pledged to protect are
thus placed in jeopardy by these re-
strictions. It is intolerable that any
one of the occupying authorities
should attempt to impose a blockade
upon the people of Berlin.

The United States Government is
therefore obliged to insist that, in

JULY 27, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
accordance with existing agreements
the arrangements for the movement
of freight and passenger traffic be-
tween the western zones and Berlin
be fully restored. There can be no
question of delay as the restoration
of these essential services for the
needs of the civilian population in the
Berlin area are imperative.

OLDING THESE URGENT views

regarding its rights and obli-
gations in the United States sector of
Berlin, yet eager always to resolve
its controversies in the spirit of fair
consideration for the viewpoints of
all concerned, the Government of the
United States declares that duress
should not be invoked as a method of
attempting to dispose of any disagree-
ments which may exist between the
Soviet government and the Govern-
ment of the United States in respect
of any aspect of the Berlin situation.

Such disagreements, if any, should
be settled by negotiation or by any
of the other peaceful methods provid-
ed for in Article 33 of the Charter in
keeping with our mutual pledges as
copartners in the United Nations. For
these reasons the Government of the
United States is ready as a first step
to participate in negotiations in Berlin
among the four Allied occupying
authorities for the settlement of any
question in dispute arising out of the
administration of the city of: Berlin.
It is, however, a prerequisite that the
lines of communication and the move-
ment of persons and goods between
the United Kingdom, the United States,
and the French sectors in Berlin and
the western zones shall have been
fully restored.

German Political Parties Listed

This glossary of political parties in Germany was prepared by the Political
Activities branch, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, giving their status

as of July 15.
MAJOR PARTIES:

CDU — Christlich-Demokratische Union: Christ-
ian Democratic Union. Authorized in
all zones and all states, including
Berlin, Known as CDU except Bavaria,
where called CSU (Christlich-Soziale
Union, or Christian Social Union).
United through loose, federal Arbeits-
gemeinschaft (Coordinating Comfmittee).

SPD — Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutsch-
lands: Social-Democratic Party of Ger-
many. Authorized in all zones and
states, except the Soviet, where sup-
pressed in 1946. Authorized in Berlin.
Organized nationally with __head-
quarters én Hanover, British Zone.

KPD — Kommunistische Partel Deutschlands:
Communist Party of Germany, and its
affiliate the SED (Sozialistische Ein-
heitspartei Deutschlands, or Socialist
Unity Party of Germany). The KPD
is authorized in the three western
zones, the SED in Berlin and in the
states of the Soviet Zone. In the
latter area the SED is allegedly a
merger of the former KPD and SPD
organizations, but a similar merger in
Berlin was overwhelmingly rejected
by the SPD membership, and the
Soviet military authorities refused to
permit the SPD membership in their
zone to vote on the merger proposal.
KPD—SED is nationally organized and
controlled.

DPD — Demokratische Partei_ Deutschlands:
Democratic Party of Germany. A name
used to designate a loose confeder-
ation of various state and zone-level
moderate parties as follows:

1, LDP — Liberal-Demokratische Partei Deutsch-
lands: Liberal Democratic Party. Soviet
Zone, Berlin, and Hesse in the US
Zone. There is no connection between
the Soviet and US Zone parties, and
the Berlin party is split between the
non-Communist majority and a Soviet-
controlled minority.

2. FDP —Freie Demokratische Partei: Free
Democratic Party. British Zone,
Bavaria and Bremen in the US Zone.

3. DVP — Demokratische Volkspartei: Demo-
cratic People’s Party. Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Bremen in the US Zone
and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern in the
French Zone. The DVP name is also
used generally for the LDP-FDP-DVP
group in the US Zone.

4, DP. —Demokratische Partel: | Democratic
Party. South Baden and Rhine-Pala-
tinate in the French Zone,

US Zone Daily Paper Is Given New Name

The only German-language daily
newspaper in the US Zone, the Tages-
zeitung, published as a_ special
feature of the International Press
Exhibition recently in Munich, has
been continued under a new name,
Die Abendzeitung, The newspaper,
Published six days a week with a
circulation of 25,000 copies per day
as a non-profit enterprise, is edited
by Werner Friedmann, who also is

JULY 27, 1948

editor-in-chief of the Sueddeutsche

Zeitung.
“The decision to continue the
Tageszeitung’, Ernest Langendorff,

chief of the Press Branch, OMG
Bavaria, stated, “is based not only
on strong popular demand but also
because it will serve as a school for
young German journalists who have
not had any opportunity for practical
training on a daily newspaper.”

11

MINOR PARTIES
US ZONE:

BP — Bayernpartei (Bavarian Party) State-
wide in Bavaria.
WAV — Wirtschaftliche Aufbauvereinigung:

Economic Reconstruction Association
— In Bavaria.

AP — Arbelter - Partel: Labor Party. Several
counties in Hesse, especially in the
Offenbach area.

DB — Deutscher Block: German Block. Bavaria
and several counties in Hesse.

NDP — Nationale Demokratische Partel:
National Democratic Party, Several
Hessian. counties.

There are also miscellaneous small local

parties authorized in single counties or even
in individual communities, especially * in
Bavaria.

BRITISH ZONE: -

DP — Deutsche Partel: German Party. Form-
erly Lower Saxon State Party (NLP)—
Mainly in Lower Saxony, but also
authorized in Bremen in the US Zone.

ZP — Zentrumspartel: Center Party. The
whole British Zone, and several
localities in the US Zone.

SSV — Sitd- Schleswig - Vereinigung: South
Schleswig Association.  Schleswig-
Holstein only.

DKP — Deutsche Konservative Partei: Germfan
Conservative Party. Whole British
Zone. Also known -as Deutsche Rechts-
partef, or German Right Party.

RVP — Rheinische Volkspartei: Rheinish
People’s Party. North Rhine-West-
phalia.

FRENCH ZONE:
No minor parties authorized.

SOVIET ZONE:

No minor Parties authorized as such, but
several ‘‘Democratic anti-Fascist'’ groups have
presented lists of candidates in elections.
These include the VdgB (Verein der gegen-
seitigen Bauernhilfe) —- Peasants’ Mutual Aid
Association; FDJ (Freie Deutsche Jugend) —
Free German Youth; Women's Committees;
the FDGB (Freier Deutscher Gewerkschafts-
bund) — Trade Union Block; and the Kultur-
bund — Cultural League. Two new zone
parties have recently been organized, one
for farmers, the other, known as ‘National
Democratic’, (no connection with NDP in
Hesse in the US Zone), based on ex-NSDAP
(Nazi Party) members.

BERLIN:
No minor parties authorized.

Dr. Maier Resigns

Dr. Reinhold Maier, minister presi-
dent of Wuerttemberg-Baden, has
resigned his seat in the bizonal
Council of States, giving as his
reason the pressure of other duties.
He was replaced by Dr. Heinrich
Koehler, deputy minister president.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
sti ne

Paul F. Taggart, OMGWB food and agriculture chief,

discusses the food situation at the Sinsheim session.

UERTTEMBERG - BADEN has
taken the lead in the US Zone
in holding open forums and town
meetings throughout the state to bring
officials and citizens together for
discussions of questions and problems.
The open forum, based on the
previously successful Radio Stuttgart's
Forum, was initiated at the beginning
of the year by OMG Wuerttemberg-
Baden as part of its reorientation
program, Once every month a public
session is scheduled in a county seat
of the state.

Heads of OMGWB divisions and
German officials sit as a panel to
answer any question put by a member
of the audience,

Also, every month more than
100 town meetings are held in suburbs

Construction worker at Pforzheim asks:

Why can't I get work shoes?

(HEUTE)

and rural villages, attended by county
MG officers and local municipal offi-
cials, as well as private citizens

The material and photographs for
this display were assembled from an
illustrated article in HEUTE, MG Ger-
man-language magazine, and from a
release by the Public Information
Office, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden.
HEUTE's photographs were by Hilmar
Pabel.

The purpose of the open forums and
town meetings is to stress to the Ger-
mans that responsibility of public
officials to the public is a prerequisite
of real democracy,

(PIO)

Mayor Dietz of Kirchardt
on seizure of surplus goods,

Heinrich Mann, municipal economic officia
addresses Pforzheim forum.

TOWN

The People Ask-—4

Wuerttemberg-Bad
Of ‘Open Forum!”

D

(Io)

The response of the public was
tremendous from the first. However,
the officials lost their early reticence
only when they saw that the audience
liked the idea of asking questions and
receiving straight-forward answers,

For example, in Esslingen County,
none of the state legislators was in-
terested in accompanying the county
administrator and MG officer to the
first town meeting, Then the SPD
member of the legislature attended
and became enthusiastic, followed by
the DVP and CDU delegates, Only the
Communist representative showed no
interest in answering questions.

Though invited, none of the ministers
of the Wuerttemberg-Baden state
government was interested in parti-

Why can't;
wild boars!

inquires
(HEUTE)

--- Page 16 ---
George L. Erion, OMGWB official, ex-
plains coal production at Pforzheim, (P10)

E T I N G S Dr, Johann Peter Brandenburg, chief mayor of Pforz-
heim, answers a question on building materials, (PIO)
coe
e Officials Answer

; Successful Series
minars, Discussions

cipating in the early monthly forums.
But at the fifth meeting in Pforzheim,
one minister and two deputy ministers
took part,

MG officers in the field recently
reported that the quality of the
questions asked by the audiences has
improved since the first town meetings
were held. Questions on problems of a
personal, petty nature have decreased
while more intelligent questions were
being asked.

(above) Explanation of German fishing
is sought by Johann Keck, refugee from
Czechoslovakia. (below) Applause for
sharp discussion at Sinsheim. (HEUTE)

The idea of town meetings has
spread outside of the MG sponsor-
ship, German municipal officials are
conducting their own meetings along
the same lines. Several major political

Pforzheim housewife com-
plains: There is a family of
three in the building where
parties have also recently conducted 7 Jive who had three rooms

forums, and a kitchen. (PIO)

hing be done about the The wild boar problem also is brought up
Plorzheim citizen, (P10) at Sinsheim by another citizen. (HEUTE)

--- Page 17 ---
THE REAL ISSUE IN BERLIN CRISIS

Wartime Director of the OSS Says the Scuttling of ERP
Is Soviet Russia's Real Aim in Blockading the City
By William J. (Wild Bill) Donovan

Major General, US Army, Retired, and Wartime Director, Office of Strategic Services

HE SOVIETS have defined the
T issue. The issue is not as they
pretend, that the Allies have intro-
duced currency reform into western
Germany. Nor even the right of the
western Allies to remain in Berlin.
The real issue is whether the Euro-
pean Recovery Program is to be stop-
ped at the outset, thus determining
whether Europe shali be helped to
economic recovery or whether it is
to be left to economic chaos, politi-
cal disintegration and eventual Soviet
domination,

The blockade of Berlin is a men-
acing and dangerous tactic designed
to test the will and resolve of the
western Allies to achieve economic
recovery for western Europe. General
Lucius D. Clay (US Military Gov-
ernor) has met the challenge of the
blockade with boldness and resolu-
tion. The dramatic success of “Ope-
ration Vittles" which has maintained
Berlin's food supply despite the siege
of the city, was completely unexpect-
ed by the Soviets.

General Clay's firm and decisive
action has regained the initiative for
the western Allies. To strengthen
this position he must receive effec-
tive and immediate support of the
United States, If the people of our
country are accurately informed, I

General Donovan made this
statement during his visit to Ber-
lin in mid-July on a brief inspec-
tion trip in Germany.

During World War II General
Donovan organized and directed
the highly successful Office of
Strategic Services. In the first
world war, as a colonel in the
old 69th New York Infantry, he
was wounded three times, re-
ceived the Congressional Medal
of Honor and 10 other decora-
tions, and earned the nickname
of "Wild Bill.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

believe they will promptly and un-
reservedly insist that our government
take the necessary measures to sup-
port General Clay as the surest way
of preventing war.

However, we should not delude
ourselves. The maintenance of the
food supply of Berlin by air, even
though indefinitely continued, will
postpone but will not resolve the
basic issue. And on the basic issue—
which is really war or peace—we
shall gain nothing were we to yield
Berlin to the Soviets now. The tactics
of economic strangulation employed
in Berlin today can be repeated
tomorrow or a week from now in
Vienna, or anywhere else.

F THE SOVIETS have any genuine
intention of participating in the

reconstruction of Europe or any
desire to relieve the hardships on the
German population, they can show
their good faith now by lifting the
blockade. If, on the other hand, the
Soviets intend war—war will not be
avoided by the surrender of Berlin
by the western Allies to the Soviets.
If she is only bluffing, now is the
time to call the bluff.

Whatever Soviet intentions may
be, the surest way to find out is for
the western Allies, led by the
United States, to take a firm stand on
Berlin now,

If we pursue any other course we
surrender our hard-won initiative, we
destroy our present strong moral
position with the Allies, the German
people and before the world. Our
prestige would be dissipated and our
leadership discredited. Even if we
abandoned Berlin it would weaken,
not improve, our physical and mili-
tary position, and there would be no
guarantee that Russia would act any
differently than heretofore, and the
Soviets would be the first to exploit
our weakness. They would intensify
their pressure to drive us progress-
ively to weaker positions until fi-

14

nally our retreat would become a
disorganized rout, or to trap us into
an overt act of war,

Common sense dictates that no
amount of appeasement will fully
unmask Russian intention, and on the
other hand, firmness and purposeful
action are the only measures that can
prevent war.

HAT ARE THE means that
America can and should em-
ploy to support the Allied position in
Berlin? As an ordinary citizen I do
not know of all the political and
economic means that our country can
apply to support our stand in Berlin.
But I do know that there are many
citizens like myself who recognize
that the issue presented here goes
far beyond Berlin or even Europe.
For what happens in Berlin has its
repercussions in every area where
our country and the Soviet Union
face each other, whether in Europe
or the Middle East or the Far East.
Therefore I believe the United States,
together with its Allies, can and should
impose economic sanctions against
her in other parts of the world.
However and wherever that can be
done, I think our Government should
(Continued on Page 20)

(Army Signal Corps)

Maj. Gen. W. J. Donovan

JULY 27, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
By Charles M. LaFollette
Director, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden

Part III

N GERMANY, before Hitler and his

Nazis brutalized far too many Ger-
mans, one murder would have shocked
the community, and the murderer if
duly convicted would have been
punished without question or qualm.
Let those, who now try to stir up
martyrdom for the Nazi killers con-
victed at Nuremberg, ponder a little
upon the decadence of German moral
standards, which they, by their acts,
not only must be held to condone but
also held to seek to reestablish.

We have now discussed the sub-
stantive international criminal law
nullem crimen sine lege, war crimes
and crimes against humanity as de-
fined in Control Council Law No, 10
and the construction placed upon the
definitions in it by the prosecution
and the court, with particular em-
phasis upon the restricted construc-
tion placed upon the definition of
crimes against humanity.

An orderly presentation requires
me to proceed to a discussion of the
several categories of crimes, tried and
punished under the Nazi regime, which
the court found resulted in the com-
mission of crimes by the defendants
under Control Council Law 10. These
classifications by the Tribunal of
crimes tried, which led to crimes com-
mitted by the defendants in the Ju-
stice Case under Control Council
Law 10, are the following:

5. Crimes of treason and high treason.

6. Crimes of various types committed
by Poles, Jews and other foreigners.
7. Crimes committed under the “Nacht
und Nebel" (Night and Fog) progra:,
and similar procedures.

JULY 27, 1948

However, this statement is more
intelligible if we transpose it into a
statement of categories of crimes com-
mitted by the defendants in the Jus-
tice Case. I believe a fair statement
of the issues, decided by the court in
the Justice Case as being necessary
to a decision, is the following:

1. Crimes arising out of the trials,
conviction and sentencing of Poles for
allegedly committing treason and high
treason against the German Reich.

2. Crimes arising out of the relation-
ship of the individual defendants to
the governmentally sponsored per-
secution upon racial grounds of (a)
Jews, (b) Poles.

3. Crimes arising out of the relation-
ship of the individual defendants to
the governmentally sponsored per-
secution on political grounds, of racial
German nationals.

(There was evidence introduced by
the prosecution of governmentally
organized persecution of clergymen
upon religious grounds in the case of
the defendant Cuhorst. Some of the
evidence related to judgments ren-
dered before Sept. 1, 1939, which the
court rejected as not properly charged
in the indictment. Evidence of judg-
ments rendered after Sept. 1, 1939, the
court found not sufficient to establish
proof beyond a reasonable doubt
sufficient to warrant conviction. The
latter conclusion is not stated ex-
pressly by the court but is logically
inferable from its judgment of not
guilty.)

4, Crimes arising out of the relation-
ship of the individual defendants to
the enforcement by the Justice Min-
istry of the “Nacht und Nebel Erlass.”

15

This is the third in the series of
five articles presenting the de-
tailed review of the Justice Case
before the Military Tribunal at
Nuremberg, as given by Charles
M. LaFollette before an inter-
zonal conference of jurists and
lawyers in Munich early in June.

Mr. LaFollette, who is now di-
rector of the Office of Military
Government for Wuerttemberg-
Baden, was the prosecutor at the
trial of 15 former members of the
Nazi Ministry of Justice and high-
placed jurists during the Nazi
regime.

5. Two special and additional crimes
alleged against the defendant Klemm,
(a) his active participation in the
Hitler program to incite the German
population to lynch downed Allied
fliers, (b) his connection with the
slaughtering of 800 prisoners in Son-
nenberg Prison by the Gestapo in the
face of the imminent capture of the
prison by the advancing Russian
army.

HE PROSECUTION alleged against
various defendants each and all
of the above crimes both as war
crimes in Count II of the indictment
and as crimes against humanity in
Count III. When one remembers the
phrase used by the International Miti-
tary Tribunal, “those acts which were
not war crimes were crimes against
humanity,” one understands that the
law in this field has not yet firmed
up. This does not justify the con-
clusion that men have been found
guilty who were in fact innocent.
The indecision arises from several
causes, first, the inability of the pro-
secution in some instances to establish
clearly whether Jews, non-Germans
or Germans or all three were killed;
second, the fact that where Jews, who
were also citizens of overrun nations,
were killed, it was possible that both
crimes could have been committed at
the same time by the same murder,
extermination or enslavement of the
same persons.
That is to say, that Hitler's un-
precedented declaration of war against
a nebulous enemy designated as

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
“international Jewry” created no
state of war or belligerency to which
the Hague conventions could apply,
yet the mistreatment of the Jew was
also an act which could come within
the prohibitions of the Hague conven-
tions and thereby become a war crime
although it was also a governmentally
organized atrocity and offense within
the purview of the definition of crimes
against humanity.

Thirdly, the de-citizenization, to
coin a word, of the Jew within Ger-
many, while clearly a part of the
governmental plan of extermination,
also had to be faced and answered,
if the Nazi defendants were to be pre-
vented from claiming that Hitler's
laws had made the Jew an alien
within Germany. They argued that
thereby they had the right to impose
certain limitations upon the rights of
Jews within Germany, short of killing
them, (no defendant had the courage
to testify that believed in killing Jews
just because they were Jews) such as
limitations upon civil rights and
internment as “enemy” aliens.

Of course, the fantastically dia-
bolical cleverness of Hitler's attacks
upon the Jew lay in the fact that
though he created an enemy nation,
“international Jewry,” this enemy
nation did not exist, therefore it had

no ambassador, minister or consular
representatives to present its case, or
to file diplomatic protests. It had no
treaties of alliance or of mutual mi-
litary aid. The Jew in Germany as an
“alien” represented a status foreign
to any known to the law of nations.

Fourth, the question of whether the
crimes committed against Poles by the
application of the law against Poles
and Jews were war crimes or crimes
against humanity presents an issue
lying within the twilight zone of the
applicable law.

LL OF THESE factors led to some

difference of approach between
the prosecution and the court as to
whether the facts fulfilled the pro-
visions of Control Council Law 10,
The results were not affected by this
different view of the facts nor of the
application of the law to the facts,
for no defendant was wrongfully con-
victed. Of course, the decision of the
court, not the arguments of the pro-
secution, constitutes the law of the
case,

Before proceeding to discuss diver-
gent points of view, it would be well
to first disclose the instances in which
the prosecution, in its closing argu-
ment, and the court, in its decision,
were in agreement. They agreed:

1. That the crimes set out in classes
2 (a) and 3 hereinabove, were crimes
against humanity.

2. That the crimes set out in class 4

were war crimes as was the crime
set out in class 5 (a).

3. That, inasmuch as there was
credible evidence that both Russian
nationals and German nationals were
among the 800 persons shot by the
Gestapo at Sonnenberg, that the
defendant Klemm was guilty of
committing both a war crime and a
crime against humanity.

They disagreed as to the crimes
set out in (a) class 1 and (b)
class 2 (b).

HE PROSECUTION was of the

opinion that the trial and con-
viction of Poles for treason and high
treason, under the facts in evidence,
was an act in violation of the Hague
conventions, whereas the court
considered the acts done to Poles,
particularly those done under the
Law against Poles and Jews, as
coming within the definitions of
crimes against humanity.

The same difference of opinion
arose of cases in class 2 (b), the
conviction of Poles, within the “Alt
Reich", by the application of the Law

Looking toward the defendants in the Justice Case, in the Palace of Justice at Nuremberg.

Fifteen former Nazi judges and public prosecutors were placed on trial.

(PIO OCCWC)

--- Page 20 ---
against Poles and Jews in cases
where. they were prosecuted and
convicted for acts done within the
“Alt Reich”.

An understanding of the validity
of the points of view where the
parties were in agreement and of the
reasons for the differences of opinion
where they were not, requires a
consideration of the Hague Conven-
tions on Land Warfare and a brief
discussion of the Law against Poles
and Jews and the reasons given by
the German government for its adop-
tion and enforcement.

The Hague Convention provisions
that are pertinent are the following:

Prisoner of War

Article 5, Prisoners of war...can
not be confined except as an
indispensable measure of safety,
and only while the circumstances
which necessitate the measure
continue to exist.

Article 6. The state may utilize
the labor of prisoners of war
according to rank and aptitude,
officers excepted. The tasks shall
not be excessive and shall have
no connection with the operations
of the war.

Sec. II

Article 23. In addition to the
prohibitions provided by special
conventions, it is especially for-
bidden: \

(h) to declare abolished,
suspended or inadmissible in a
court of law the rights and actions
of the nationals of the hostile
party.

Sec. III

Article 43. The authority of the
legitimate power having, in fact,
passed into the hands of the
occupant, the latter shall take all
the measures in his power to
restore and insure, as far as
Possible, public order and safety
while respecting, unless absolutely
prevented, the law enforced in
the country.

Article 46, Family honor and
tights, the lives of persons and
Private property as well as

JULY 27, 1948

Flanked by two American military guards, Joseph Altstoetter stands stiffly
as the court in the Justice Case sentences him to imprisonment for five
years. Altstoetter was former chief of the Civil Law and Procedure

Division in the Reich Ministry of Justice.

religious convictions and practice

must be respected. Private pro-

perty cannot be confiscated.

The law against Poles and Jews
came into effect on Dec. 4, 1941. It
was not the first act or piece of
legislation applied against Poles in
violation of the Hague Conventions,
particularly Articles 23 (h), 43 and
46, supra. Obviously it is not the
first discriminatory legislation passed
and enforced by the Hitler govern-
ment against Jews. Draconic as it
is, even it did not satisfy the thirst
for the blood of Jews so that in 1943
it was held inapplicable to them, the
veil of pseudo-legality was rent and
thrown away and the Jews were
turned over to the Gestapo for direct
action. But it was until the end of
the war the device used in the “Alt
Reich” for persecuting and extermi-
nating Poles.

RTICLE 43 of the Hague Con-

ventions is also referred to as
laying down the rule of “military
necessity” as the-+sole excuse for
refusing to perform the duties therein
enjoined upon the occupying power.
In other words, the phrase “unless
absolutely has been
construed as laying down the rule
that only the existence of conditions
which endanger the occupation in

prevented”

17

(P10 Occwc)

fact will excuse or
occupying power in denying the
rights to citizens of the occupied
enjoined upon the occupier.

justify the

Even then, the law enforced by the
occupier can only be one calculated
to maintain order sufficient to pre-
serve not only the unhindered occu-
pation of the occupying power's
military dispositions but also to
prevent chaos from engulfing the
occupied citizenry.

It can never justify a discriminatory
occupation statute which shows on
the face, not a desire to restore or
maintain order but a deliberate intent
to enslave and exterminate. I cannot
set out the statute or its provisions
verbatim but I do quote a part of the
closing argument of the prosecution
which sets out its salient discrimi-
natory features:

“This decree of Dec. 4, 1941, among
other things, ordered Poles and Jews
in the Incorporated Eastern Terri-
tories to conduct themselves. in ‘con-
formity with German law and regu-
lations’ and to abstain from conduct
liable ‘to prejudice the sovereignty
of the German Reich or the prestige
of the German people’. The decree
provided that the death penalty ‘shall
be imposed’ against Poles and Jews
if they commit an act of violence

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
‘against a German on account of his
being of German blood’.”

“In cases where the death penalty
was not initially provided the decree
stated ‘it shall be imposed’ if ‘par-
ticularly objectionable notions’ or
‘grave reasons were shown’.
Juveniles could be sentenced to
death (at that time German juveniles
could not be) and a Pole or Jew
could be persecuted ‘if punishment
is in the public interest.”

“We must keep in mind that the
patent purpose of this law was not
to preserve order in the Incorporated
Eastern Territories, a concept which
finds justification in international
law ... This decree was for ... the
punishment of crimes by Poles and
Jews against Germans and had no
relation whatsoever either to the
requirements of military necessity or
the keeping of domestic order in
Poland for the benefit of a Polish
nation composed of people enjoying
the privileges of full citizenship.”

However, the clinching argument
is predicated upon the rule that in
any event “military necessity” must
exist to justify the denial of the
rights guaranteed by Article 43. It
is also clear that the “military
necessity,” which is in turn the only
standard by which to measure the
claim of the occupying power that it
is “absolutely prevented” from per-
forming the duties enjoined on it, is
an exception and therefore an affir-
mative defense.

HE PROSECUTION in this case

was not required to prove the
absence of “military necessity” in
order to show a violation of Ar-
ticle 43. On the contrary when the
evidence showed that the occupying
power had not respected the “law
enforced in the country,” by adopting
and enforcing the Law against Poles
and Jews, then it was incumbent on
the defendants to show the existence
of facts which created a “military
necessity” justifying that act. There
is not one scintilla of such evidence
in this record.

On the contrary there is positive
proof that “military necessity” was
not even considered as the basis or

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

reason for applying the law. This
proof, largely if not totally, came
from evidence offered by the defend-
ants. The proof consists of articles
by Freisler in Deutsche Justiz (Ger-
man Justice) for December, 1941, and
January, 1942, approved by Schlegel-
berger, which unequivocally show
that the reason for enacting and
applying the Law against Poles and
Jews was purely political. If they
were political then they did not
depend upon “military necessity.”

But, “military necessity” is the
only reason recognized by inter-
national law as a justification for
denying the people of the occupied
country the rights guaranteed by
Article 43, Therefore political rea-
sons, which are demonstrated by the
evidence to have been the only
reasons, for the enactment and
enforcement of the Law against
Poles and Jews, cannot justify the
act and therefore all convictions and
executions rendered under it were at
least prima facie illegal and the duty
to justify them lay upon the de-
fendants in the dock.

UFFICIENT PROOF of the fact

that political considerations were
the sole motivation is found in the
following quotes from Freisler’s ar-
ticle in Deutsche Justiz:

“Therefore the interpretation of
the penal laws and the creation of
penal laws as a whole as well.as in
any individual case was always
subject to the motivating thought of
the aims of the German political
work in these Gaus.

“The political task of the ad-
ministration of criminal jurisdiction
is not at all incompatible with justice.
The directives for arriving at a just
decision, especially in the case of
the law pursuant to Cipher II in the
criminal jurisdiction for Poles are
derived by viewing the German
people and Reich as a whole in
regard to the necessity of the State,
the judicial comprehension of which
is given by the political aims of
German work in the annexed Eastern
districts.”

On the state of such evidence
who will rise and say that the Law

18

against Poles and Jews had any
validity in international law, let alone
in Christian morals and ethics?

It is true that the Justice Ministry
had no jurisdiction over the en-
forcement of this law outside of the
“Alt Reich.” But by its provisions
it was applicable within the “Alt
Reich” against Poles who had been
citizens of Poland residing in Poland
prior to Sept. 1, 1939, and who there-
after appeared in the “Alt Reich.”
Such Poles were subject to its juris-
diction, administered by German
courts until the collapse of the
1,000-year Reich ended hostilities,
Clearly it was not a valid law
because the reasons for its enactment
did not satisfy international law.
Convictions under it, unexplained
and unjustified, were therefore acts
“in violation of the laws and customs
of war" and war crimes.

The prosecution contended that
“Certainly Germany by wrongful
removal of Poles from Poland, where
application of the decree was clearly
unlawful, to Germany cannot thereby
evade the crime which would have
resulted from the enforcement of the
same decree against the same people
in Poland... It is, therefore, clear
that the trial of Poles wrongfully
deported to Germany under this
decree was still a war crime even
though the venue was changed by
such deportation.”

HIS VIEW OF the law, namely,

that deportation of Poles to
Germany did not make the appli-
cation of the Law against Poles and
Jews against them in Germany any
less a war crime, together with the
fact that there was a complete
absence of evidence under which it
could possibly be found that the
Poles owed any allegiance to the
German Reich, which is the gravamen
of the crime of treason or high
treason, led the prosecution to the
belief that the convictions of the
type hereinafter set out, against
Poles for treason and high treason,
were also war crimes.

The prosecution did not believe
that Poles “voluntarily” came into
Germany to work after Sept. 1, 1939,
therefore, for the reasons hereinabove

JULY 27, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
set, it considered cases against
Poles to be war crimes. But is also
contended that if the court chose to
believe that Poles came into Ger-
many to work “voluntarily” that the
application of the Law against Poles
and Jews was a part of a plan to
persecute and exterminate Poles on
racial and political grounds. To this
extent it was in agreement with the
court's conclusion that these cases
could be found to be crimes against
humanity.

The court considered the matter in
a broader scope. It reviewed all of
the relevant evidence upon the issue
of a governmentally organized plan
to persecute and exterminate Poles
and Jews, and concluded that the
enactment and enforcement of the
Law against Poles and Jews was one
element of that plan, or that it was
* evidence of that plan.

It therefore concluded that in
those cases, the application of the
Law demonstrated beyond a reason-
able doubt that the judge was
motivated by a purpose to exter-
minate Poles in furtherance of ‘the
governmentally organized plan to do
so, and found him guilty of a crime
against humanity.

O THAT YOU MAY have some

knowledge of the evidence and
the court's reasoning thereon I quote
briefly from the opinion:

“Of especial significance is the
record concerning the establishment
of penal laws for Poles and Jews in
the annexed Eastern territories. On
17 April 1941 the defendant Schlegel-
berger addressed a letter to the Reich
minister and chief of the Reich
Chancellory. In it he states that as
soon as the Special Courts were
introduced in the eastern territories
under the decree of 5 September 1939
he tried to make these ‘courts with
their particularly prompt and ener-
getic procedure centers for combating
all Polish and Jewish crime.’ He
States that ‘the procedure of com-
pulsory prosecution was rescinded,
as it seems intolerable that Poles
and Jews should in this way compel
the German prosecutor to issue an
indictment.’

JULY 27, 1948

“He further states: ‘On being in-
formed of the Fuehrer’s intention to
discriminate in the sphere of penal
law between the Poles (and probably
the Jews as well), and the Germans,
I prepared, after preliminary dis-
cussions with the presidents of the
courts of appeal and the attorney

> generals, of the annexed eastern ter-

ritories, the attached draft concerning
the administration of the penal laws
against Poles and Jews in the
annexed eastern territories and in the
territory of the former Free City of
Danzig.’

“Again, he says: ‘So far I have
been in agreement with the opinion
held by the Fuehrer's deputy, on the
fact that a Pole is less sensitive to
the imposition of an ordinary prison
sentence. Therefore, I had taken ad-
ministrative measures to ensure that
Poles and Jews be separated from
other prisoners and that their im-
prisonment be rendered more severe.
No. 3 goes still farther and substi-
tutes for the terms of imprisonment
and hard labor prescribed by Reich
law other prison sentences of a new
kind, viz., the prison camp and the
more rigorous prison camp.’

“A memorandum dated 22 April

1941, bearing the same file number
as the letter of Schlegelberger, states
that Schlegelberger has transmitted
the proposed draft, and adds: ‘The
draft establishes a draconic special
criminal law for Poles and Jews,
giving a wide range for the inter-
pretations of the facts of the case,
with the death penalty applicable
throughout. The conditions of im-
prisonment are also much more
severe than provided for in the
German criminal law.’

“On 1 April 1943 a letter from the
Reich Ministry of Justice to the
public prosecutors of the courts of
appeal and others, stated that the
“Reich Security Office has directed
by the decree of 11 March 1943 as
follows:

‘a). Jews, who in accordance with
number VI of the guiding principles,
are released from a penal institution,
are to be taken by the State Police
(Chief) Office competent for the
district in which the penal institution

19

is located, for the rest of their lives
to the concentration camps Auschwitz
or Lublin in accordance with the
regulations for protective custody
that have been issued. The same
applies to Jews who in the future
are released from a penal institution
after serving a sentence of confine-
ment. .

‘b). Poles, who in accordance with
number VI of the guiding principles
are released from a penal institution
are to be taken by the State Police
(Chief) Office competent for the
district in which the penal institution
is located, for the duration of the
war to a concentration camp in
accordance with the regulations on
protective custody that have been
issued.

‘The same applies in the future to
Poles who, after serving a term of
imprisonment of more than six
months, are to be discharged by a
penal institution.’

“As a crowning example of fana-
tical imbecility, we cite the following
document issued in April, 1943, which
was sent to the desk of the defendant
Rothenberger for his attention and
was initialed by him.

‘The Reich Minister of Justice
Information for the Fuehrer
1943 No.

‘After the birth of her child a
full-blooded Jewess sold her
mother's milk to a pediatrician
and concealed that she was a
Jewess. With this milk babies
of German blood were fed in a
nursing home for children. The
buyers of the milk have suffered
damage, for mother’s milk from
a Jewess cannot be regarded as
food for German children. The
impudent behavior of the accused
is an insult as well. Relevent
charges, however, have not been
applied for so that the parents,
who are unaware of the true
facts, need not subsequently be
worried. I shall discuss with the
Reich Health Leader the racial
hygienic aspect of the case.

‘Berlin, April 1943."
This foregoing is only a meager
example of the evidence found in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
official German documents which the
court in the Justice Case set out
through more than 20 pages of its
record before it concluded as follows:

“The evidence conclusively estab-
lishes the adoption and application of
systematic, governmentally organized
and approved procedures amounting
to atrocities and offenses of the kind
made punishable by CC Law 10 and
committed against populations and
amounting to persecution on racial
grounds. These procedures when car-
tied out in occupied territory con-
stituted war crimes and crimes against
humanity.

“The pattern and plan of racial per-
secution has been made clear. General
knowledge of the broad outlines
thereof, in all its immensity, has been
brought home to the defendants. The
remaining question is whether or not
the evidence proves beyond a reason-
able doubt in the case of the in-
dividual defendants that they each
conspicuously participated in the plan
or took a consenting part therein.”

HAVE GIVEN the divergent views

of the prosecution and the court
on his issue so that it may be under-
stood that it is possible for the same
act to be either a war crime or a
crime against humanity, or both. This
possibility fundamentally arises out
of the vicious, amoral, scientifically
invalid concept of race with which
Hitler impregnated the minds of the
German people. No defendant has
been persecuted because a national
government's organized policy made

his crimes so odious and also wide-,

spread that hei can and must be
convicted of committing two crimes
by the same act,

Before coming to a discussion of
cases upon which the defendants were
found guilty of crimes against hu-
manity I want to point out briefly the
ground of the decision. The court held
as to the acts of Lautz, a prosecutor,
and Rothang and Oeschey, judges,
that the evidence demonstrated not
that a Pole or a Jew had been con-
victed merely by applying the Law
against Poles and Jews, but because
under all of the facts in the case the
use and application of that law
clearly demonstrated that it was the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

lethal weapon by which the de-
fendant served the governmentally
organized plan and design to per-
secute and exterminate on racial
grounds. The defendant, Pole or Jew,
was convicted not because he was a
criminal but because he was a Pole
or a Jew.

HE BEST ILLUSTRATION of the

application of the rule is after
all not found in the examples which
justified conviction, but in the case
of the application of the rule to the
defendant Cuhorst, who was acquit-
ted. I quote:

“As to count three the problem is
considerably more complicated. There
are many affidavits and much tes-
timony in the record as to the de-
fendant'’s character as a_ fanatical
Nazi and ruthless judge. There is also
much evidence as to the arbitrary,
unfair and unjudicial manner in which
he conducted his trials. Some of the
evidence against him was weakened
on cross examination, but the general
picture given of him as such a judge
is one which the Tribunal accepts.

“The cases to be considered as
connecting him with crimes estab-
lished in this case under count three
involve the question as to whether
the evidence establishes his
nection with the persecution of Poles.
In this connection we have given
particular consideration to the
Skrowren and Petra cases.

“From the evidence available, this
Tribunal does not consider that it
can say beyond a reasonable doubt
that the defendant was guilty of in-
flicting the punishments which he im-
posed on racial grounds or that it
can say beyond a reasonable doubt
that he used the discriminatory pro-
visions of the Decree Against Poles
and Jews to the prejudice of the
Poles whom he tried.”

con-

Anti-Prejudice Drive

A branch of the Gotthold Ephraim
Lessing Association for Tolerance
was founded in Bavaria to counteract
racial and religious prejudice through
an educational program designed to
promote mutual understanding, Spe-
cial emphasis will be placed upon
work with youth groups.

20

Talks on America
Heard by Germans

Adult educational programs spon-
sored by the US Information Centers
in Germany have included lectures
on progress in the United States in
the fields of education, public health,
athletics, books, and the theater,
Also discussed were “Penicilltn,”
“American Literature," “American
Civilization,” “Recent Economic
History," “Monetary Theory,” and
“Science Today."

Programs designed to further the
reorientation of the German people
included lectures and discussions on
the following topics: “The Problem
of English Democracy," “Political
Parties in the US and Germany,"
“Organization of World Peace,”
“American Democracy,” “A Solution
to the German Problem,” and “The .
Meaning of Western Civilization.”

The lectures were frequently sup-
plemented by motion pictures
illustrating the subject under dis-
cussion. Film strips shown included:
“New York," “National Parks,"
“Clearing the Slums,” “Far Western
Region,” “Southeastern Region,” “In-
dians of the Southwest,” ‘Forest
Ranger,” “Centralized School,” “Pitts-
burgh,” “Day on the Farm,” “Overall
View of the U.S.A.” and “Cotton
Textile Industry.”

All centers devote at least one
evening weekly to programs of purely
cultural value, such as concerts of
modern American music, and lectures
and discussions of music and drama
in the United States—From Military
Governor's Monthly Report. No. 34.

(Continued from Page 14)
The Real Issue

act promptly and decisively—not
only against the Soviet Union but
against her satellites as well. Our
experience in the last war with Hitler
and our experience with Stalin since
World War II should teach us that
only by such a demonstration of
strength and the unshaken resolve to
use it in the interests of world peace
we will have any assurance of stop-
ping a dictator.

The alternative is clear. We have
to make the decision even if it
means war.

JULY 27, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
(Continued from Page 2)
Occupational Activities

was drawn up by the ACA Narcotics
Working Party.

US Zone

The sum of $95,000 has been made
available by Military Government for
the purchase of books from Austria
for the Bizonal Area. The volumes
will consist largely of German trans-
lations of American publications, and
are to be distributed among US In-
formation Centers.

Living quarters for 59,563 persons
in United Nations displaced persons
centers had become surplus up to
April 12. through repatriation or
resettlement of the occupants. As a
result, US authorities have returned
approximately 150 installations to the
German economy.

A total of 14,937 young German
volunteers from the three states of
the US Zone have passed through
the Hoechst assembly center on their
way to the Ruhr mines during the
15 months since the inauguration ‘of
the Ruhr recruitment program.

British Zone

In accordance with an agreement
concluded with the French Govern-
ment last year, recruitment of not
more than 25,000 voluntary British
Zone workers for employment in
France will commence shortly.

A windfall of 80,000 tons of solid
fuel will accrue to bizonal industrial
firms during the third quarter of this
year as a result of rigid fuel economies
carried out by the British Army of
the Rhine. During the second quarter
of 1948, the BAOR coal allocation
was underdrawn by 45,000 tons.

Bavaria

In the first week after currency
Conversion, depesits in postal savings
accounts in the Munich postoffice
district averaged from three to five
Percent of the 40 Deutsche marks
Per person issued in the first phase
of the currency exchange.

More than 50 percent of the Ger-
man population of Altoetting County
Submitted to voluntary immunization
during the recent serious typhoid
epidemic in the town of Neuoetting.

JULY 27, 1948

The main square of the settlement
for homeless children, being built on
the former Nazi Party festival grounds
in Nuremberg, will by named
Flanagan Square in honor of the late
Father Edward J. Flanagan, founder
of Boys’ Town in the United States.

Bremen

The coffee trade office in Bremen
protested the 30-mark-per-kilogram
($9 per 2.2 pounds) coffee tax as
“unsocial.”

The Liberal Democratic Kurier,
Hessian right-wing party organ nor-
mally published four times per month,
was limited by OMG Hesse to three
issues during July for carrying an
article “designed to make the German
population doubt US policies and
motives.”

The issue of 300 rifles from US
Army stores through German channels
has been authorized in Hesse for a
14-day hunting campaign against
crop-destroying game. A _ similar
program was carried out in Bavaria
agzinst wild boars.

Children playing
water tower in Fechenheim,

in an unused
near

Frankfurt, discovered 11 German
machine guns, 16 machine pistols,
several hand grenades, 10 carbines
and 2,000 rounds of ammunition. All
of the weapons and ammunition were
in excellent condition. Army in-
vestigators are checking.

The Hesse Labor Ministry termed
the building program of the Committee
for Workers’ Housing “the first
practical plan after currency reform."
The program envisages resettlement
cf workers and construction of 2,146
dwellings.

Lower Saxony

An Anglo-German Club has been
opened in Hannover. The Club was
formed at the suggestion of the
British military governor to foster
closer relations between the British
and Germans.

North Rhine-Westphalia

A special stamp issue commemcer-
ating the 700th anniversary of the
Cologne Cathedral in Auqust will be
issued by the Deutsche Post. The
issue will include four denominations
of stamps—at 6, 12, 24 and 50 pten-
nigs—each with a separate design
and having a total circulation of

21

(Army Signal Corps)
German visitors at the ‘Amerika Haus", US Information Center in
Berlin, view charts and photos designed to acquaint the German public
with the principles underlying the European Recovery Plan.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
about 40,000,000. The four denomi-
nations will bear surcharges of 4, 8,
16 and 50 pfennigs, respectively,
which will be turned over to the city
of Cologne for restoration work on
the cathedral and its surroundings.
Hard coal production reached a
new postwar production record of
308,768 tons on June 28, and for the
first time since March 15 topped the
300,000-tons-a-day level.

Wuerttemberg-Baden

More than 60 relief packages con-
tributed by US school children were
received and distributed in May by
the OMGWB Vocational Education
Section.

A permanent non-partisan organi-
zation of Wurttemberg-Baden denazi-
fication officials has been formed “to
observe whether the denazification
activities work out in a democratic
manner.”

Rationing has been removed from
wine and liquor in Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

The use of approximately’ 85 per-
cent of the total capacity of the
Rheinau brown coal depot, largest and
most modern installation of its kind
in the Bizonal Area, has been restored
by the US Army to its owners, the
Braunkohle Syndikat. The depot is
situated on the Rhine river south of
Mannheim,

Berlin

The school reform law as passed
by the Allied Kommandatura went
into effect July 1 in Berlin.

Five hundred dollars for the pur-
chase of 50 CARE food packages for
members of the Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra were presented to the or-
chestra by Yehudi Menuhin, noted
violinist, on behalf of the Dahlem
Music Society, an American-German
cultural organization established in
Berlin by the OMGUS Civilian
Employees Association.

The US Information Center. in
Berlin-Schoeneberg attracted about
140 school children from the Soviet
Sector to a film series.

A special issue of prunes and US
Army "C rations” was distributed to
the population of the US, British and
French sectors of Berlin at the end
of June.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

French Zone

Hermann: Roechling, former head
of the steel combine bearing his
name, was sentenced to seven years’
imprisonment by a French military
court at Rastatt for having aided
Hitler's agressive war, committing
war crimes, exploiting foreign in-
dustry and having permitted maltreat-
ment of workers in his factories.

Grain stocks in the French Zone
were sufficiently large to permit an
increase in the daily bread ration
from 88 ounces to 10.6 ounces
starting Aug. 1.

Soviet Zone

New regulations in the Soviet Zone
called for the dissolution of all local
sport clubs and the formation of a
central group controlled by the
Soviet-sponsored SED-dominated Free
German Trade Union League and Free
German Youth.

The Liberal Democratic Party in
the Soviet Zone, in a letter to the
Central Administration for Education,
opposed the system for admission to
universities which assures preference
to students coming from poor families.

The recently Soviet-licensed Nation-
al Democratic Party, composed
primarily of former Nazis, announced

22

Maiken Kling, 11, arranges needle work completed by members of the.
girls’ club in Neckargemund for a GYA exhibition of homecraft.

(Army Signal Corps)

a program calling for outlawing of q
war, a law to secure peace, equal
status of men and women, German
unity, and economic planning com:
bined with private initiative. ;

The German Economics Admini-
stration of the Soviet Zone concluded
a $21,538,000 trade agreement with
the Netherlands. The contract was
subject to Soviet approval.

EUCOM

A special campaign was conducted
in the European Command during ~
July to encourage US military and
civilian personnel to make regular in-
vestments in United States Savings
Bonds by payroll deductions. .

Allegations that military training
has been conducted in some displaced
persons’ assembly centers in the us
Zone has prompted Civil Affairs Dix
vision, EUCOM, to remind all com-
manders of military posts, wit h
assembly centers under their juris
diction, to be alert for such violations
of MG law. ;

Troop Information and Educati
classes at the new Heidelberg U
versity building, which was damagt
by fire recently, will be resum
Aug. 2, the beginning of the fall term.

JULY 27, 1948

--- Page 26 ---
MG Curbs Actions
Of Czech Refugees

Dr. James R. Newman, director of
OMG Hesse, has ordered a Czech
refugee committee headed by Dr.
Jaroslav Zivansky to cease immediately
any further political activity in Hesse.

Zivansky had inquired several
months ago regarding activities in
which he would be permitted to
engage. At that time, Dr. Newman
encouraged him to be active in welfare
and charitable matters but to refrain
from any political activity.

Subsequently, Dr. Newman learned,
Zivansky and his group began making
unauthorized fund collections, promot-
ed the idea of Czechs returning to

their former homeland, commended
anti-Allied propaganda, and issued
instructions to German government

agencies with respect to illegal Czech
border crossers.

When interrogated on these purely
political activities by a member of the
Hesse state refugee organization,
Zivansky stated he had an MG license.
The Czech doctor later admitted to an
official of OMG Hesse that he had no
such license,

Dr. Newman has told Zivanskj that
“under Military Government policy,
the formation of expellee groups and
organizations having political aims is
prohibited..,. It is therefore directed
that as of this date the Czechoslovak
National Committee will cease any
and all activity in Hesse. Further
violations will be dealt with by
Military Government courts."’

Correction

The article, “Police Teletype
System im Hesse,” in Issue No. 139
of the Information Bulletin, was
written by John W. Jergensen,
former chief of the Criminal Iden-
tification, Statistics and Commun-
ications Branch, Public Safety Divi-
Sion, OMG Hesse. Mr. William D.
Stewart, to whom the article was
Mecorrectly credited, arranged as
deputy chief of the Public Informa-
tion Office, OMG Hesse, for the pre-
Paration of the article and forwarded
the final draft to this office. The

Information Bulletin Tegrets this
error,

JULY 27, 1948

Behind the decision by the Berlin
Allied Kommandatura local govern-
ment comittee that Mrs. Anne-
liese Groscurth could again become
a member of the “Notgemeinschaft
1947 — Verband Berliner Buerger-
innen," lies a story of anti-Nazi
activity.

Mrs, Groscurth was one of .the
sponsors of this relief organization
but, because of her admission that
she was a member of the National
Socialist Frauenschaft during the
Nazi regime, the Allied Kommand-
atura excluded her from mem-
bership when they approved the
organization.

It was later learned that Mrs.
Groscurth belonged to the Nazi
group to cloak her resistance work
against the Hitler regime. In this

DUTT

Woman Reinstated to Berlin Group
As her Anti-Nazi Role Is Revealed

she was associated with her hus-
band, former chief physician of the
Robert Koch hospital, who was a
leading figure in the prewar German
Society ‘European Union,“

Dr. Groscourth was hanged by
the Nazis in Brandenburg prison
in 1944, and Frau Groscurth spent
eight weeks in prison while her
activity was investigated. Other
resistance workers were able to
prevent the discovery of any in-
criminating evidence against her,
and she did not break down under
interrogation.

The Kommandantura’s announ-
cement followed representations
by the ‘‘Notgemeinschaft 1947 ~—
Verband Berliner-Buergerinnen”
organization and by the Berlin
“Victims of Fascism.”

-ETUINDUUVUNUUOUDSUUUAOESLSUAUEEENUAOOAOOOUUONUEEODUSUANSEEESUUUEEATOOUUSUOUO ECAH EPO

Control Is Removed on Some Products

Removal of government marketing
control, effective July 1, was announ-
ced by the director of the bizonal
Department for Food, Agriculture and
Forestry from the following: straw,
draught and breeding horses, seeds
(except seed potatoes), fruit, vege-
tables and garden produce from in-
digenous production, poultry, honey,
fodder beets and root crops used for
fodder, goats’ and sheep's milk, whey
and whey products, goats and goats’
meat, fresh-water fish, crabs, mussels,
very small herrings, and small fish of
all types.

The department director also decreed
the lifting of price control for draught
and breeding horses, effective July 1.
As to lifting the price controls on the
other products listed above, special
instructions were to be issued later.

Previously, government controls on
the marketing of hay were abolished.

The bizonal Department for Econo-
mics issued on June 5 an order
doubling the maximum producer prices
for the 1948 harvest of oilseeds, in-
cluding rape seed, turnip rape, poppy
seed, linseed, flase flax, sunflower

23

seed and mustard seed. The increase

was granted as an incentive to farm-

ers to plant more of these crops.
—MG Semimonthly Report No. 93.

Radio Institute Set

Representatives of the school of the
air departments of the US-controlled
radio stations and of the ministries
of education have accepted the pro-
posal of Military Government to hold
an institute for radio education during
the second week in August.

The institute will be zone-wide and
will be under the direction of two
visiting consultants from the United
States. Emphasis will be placed on
the ‘production and utilization of
educational broadcasts for the faculty
of teacher training institutes, and for
other educational agencies,

Germans Visit Schools
Five groups of German pupils in
Munich visited the local US depen-
dents’ high school, attending classes
and studying the system, especially
in regard to teaching methods and
materials of instruction.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Zone Labor Groups
Back Unions’ Policy

The Hesse Trade Union Federation
and the German Trade Union Feder-
ation in the British Zone (Deutscher
Gewerkschaftsbund, or DGB) en-
dorsed the policy declaration of the
London conference of trade unions in
Marshall Plan countries and the
work at that meeting of their chair-

men, who were representing labor
organizations of the US and UK
Zones.

In a declaration adopted by its top
governing bodies against only one
dissenting vote, the Hesse federation
contended that the German people,
and therefore German labor, were
morally obligated to work toward
the utilization of German economic
resources for the rehabilitation of
the European as well as the German
economy.

It was further stated that the Lon-
don declaration had fully recognized
the task of all trade unions to pro-
mote the interests of the working
population in the implementation of
the Europan Recovery Program
(ERP).

Satisfaction was expressed that the
German trade union representatives
were able to participate in the con-
ference as delegates of equal .stand-
ing, Upon the insistence of the chair-
man of the US zonal Trade Union
Council, who is also chairman of the
Bavarian Trade Union Federation,
the Marshall Plan has been placed on
the agenda for the next interzonal
union conference.—From Military
Governor's Monthly Report No. 34.

Youth Forum a Success

A youth forum on the highly con-
troversial question, “Should There be
Student Self-Government in German
Schools,” sponsored by the Heidel-
berg US Information Center, was
termed ‘one of the best forums we've
ever had" by the center chief, Ralph
Lewis.

More than 250 students from gram-
mar school, high school and Heidel-
berg University attended the heated
discussion, Teachers and professors
also engaged in the debate from the
floor after the formal stage debate
was finished.

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 44, EUCOM Hg, 1 June
1948, Sec I—Legal Advice and Assist-
ance to Military Personnel: Rescinds
USFET letter AG 013.1 JAG-AGO,
Supervision of Legal Assistance Acti-
vities by Theater Judge Advocate,
5 July 1946, and clarifies existing
EUCOM policy. Sec II—Individual
Transportation in the European Com-
mand: Rescinds Sec II of EUCOM
Cir 64 of 1947 and amends EUCOM
Cir 57 of 1947 as to accomodations on
trains. Sec III—Transportation of Ger-
man Civilians within Germany:
Amends EUCOM Cir 23 of 1948 as to
air transportation. Sec IV—Sale of Pe-
troleum Products: Rescinds Subpar 3,
Sec I of EUCOM Cir 31 of 1948 and
amends par 22 of EUCOM Cir 94 of
1947, Sec V—Disposition of Records:
Adds paragraph in EUCOM Cir 27 of
1948 as to reports.

Maintenance Memo No. 4, EUCOM
Hq, 1 June 1948. Gives monthly
report.

Quarters for Military Government
Personnel, AG 624 GSP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 2 June 1948.

Circular No. 45, EUCOM Hg, 9 June
1948. — Sec I—Nonappropriated
Funds: Makes five specific rescissions
in EUCOM Cir 101 of 1947 and 26 of
1948 and amends parts of Cir 101.
Sec II—Charges for Bachelor Type
Billets: Amends par 3 EUCOM Cir 107
of 1947 as to charges. Sec III—Amend-
ment: Amends par 9f(1) (a), Sec III,
EUCOM-SOP 95 of 2) May 1948.
Sec IV—Rescissions: Lists Sec II,
USFET Cir 136 of 1946; Sec II, USFET
Cir 150 of 1946; Sec IV, USFET Cir 169
of 1946, and par 8 Sec 1, EUCOM
Cir 37 of 1948,

Unitarian Service Committee “Med-
ical Mission to Germany,” AG 091.112,
OMGUS, 19 June 1942. Provides for
visiting survey group.

Disposition of Personal Effects, Cir-
cular No. 46, EUCOM Hg, 10 June 1948.
Gives procedure in European Com-
mand.

Circular No. 47, EUCOM Hg, 19 June
1948. Sec I—Rental of US Government
Motor Transportation by Individuals,

Organizations or Agents: Amends
Sec I, EUCOM Cir 16 of 1948 as to
cash sales and substitutes for Annex
A and B, Sec II—Control of German
Theaters and Entertainment: Rescinds
Sec I, USFET Cir 120 of 1945 and
Sec I, USFET Cir 177 of 1946, and
gives instructions for cooperating with
Information Control Division officials
on this subject. Sec II—Rescissions;
Lists Sec II, Cir 25; Sec III, Cir 55}
Sec II, Cir 118; Sec II, Cir 58; Cir 154,
and Sec II, Cir 155, all of Hq
USFET 1946, 5

Circular No. 48, Hq EUCOM, 28 Jung
1948. Sec I—Official Registered Mail;
Amends Sec 1, EUCOM Cir 80 of 1947
to note AR minimum. Sec II—Designa-
tion of Major Commands: Amends
Sec IV, EUCOM Cir 24 of 1948,
Sec I1]—Organization of the European
Command Exchange System: Amends
EUCOM Cir 103 of 1947. Sec IV—
Occupation Expense Fiscal Policy:
Rescinds par 2, Sec V, EUCOM Cir 89
of 1947 and adds paragraph to EUCOM
Cir 36 of 1947 as to required in-
digenous personnel. Sec V—Rescission:
Lists Sec I, USFET Cir 164 of 1946.

List of Army Extension Subcourses
Available as of 30 April 1948, AG 352
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 29 June 1948,

Termination of Regional Govern-
ment Coordinating Office, General
Orders No. 24, OMGUS, 1 July 1948.

Room Numbers and Telephone
Numbers of the Bipartite Control
Office, AG 322 (Gen) (AG), OMGUS,
26 June 1948. Adds several in Frank-
furt to similar letter of June 11. °

Establishment of Military Govern-
ment Civil Airport Section (Bavaria),
General Orders No. 23, OMGUS,
26 June 1948, Names field detachment
under Armed _ Forces Division,
OMGUS.

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters,

DEUTSCHER VERLAG