--- Page 2 ---
i)

MacazINE OF US Mititary GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

GYA VACATION

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE MILITARY GOVERNMENT

GYA VACATION — German child-
ren of Bremen, shown embarking on a
bus, were given a six-week vacation
on a nearby North Sea resort isle.
The costs were provided from funds
earned at the trading post operated by

the dependent wives of US personnel
in the Bremen Port of Embarkation.
Chaproning the group are (right) Capt. :

Phyllis Burkhardt from Youngstown,
Ohio, and (center) T/Sgt. Arthur C.

Stafford from Cleveland, Ohio, GYA
assistants, (Army Signal Corps photo)

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US) i
for dissemination of authoritative in- TABLE OE CONTENTS
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of Military Government
and affiliated organizations,

Issue No. 143 Sept. 7, 1948

Occupational Activities . th eu dilate 2
Editorial Offices Civilianization of Military Government Courts . 3
— te bets Allied-German Team to Check Grain 7.
Mi: eadquarters, thin ° x : 7
Tel: 42227, 42252, 42923 Soviet Blockade Fails to Suplngete Berlin 8
New Bavaria Hunting Rules Listed. . . .... 10
potter ‘ H. Warner Waid From Test Tube to Potato Path ....,... Mf
Assistant Editor Henry S. Matteo Industrial Output at Postwar High . . . . ... 14
Mailing address: The German Bizonal Economic Administration. . . 15
Information Bulletin Quadripartite Activity on Education. . . . . . 19
Control Office OMGUS i i
t Up Slightl Zi © ajenyadey le ae
Berlin, Germany eo a ir E 2 HY aS a a
APO 742, US Army itorial-Opinion in German Press ...... .. 21
P . nee ae MG Personnel Changes Announced. ..... . 24
orrespondence in the United States Sige .
Foncering articles and distribution British oenetal Wins aus Award yi. cat so ae
should be made to: EUCOM Special Service Presents: . . ..... 29
Reports & Analysis Branch Changes in Key MG Personnel List. . . . . . . 30
Civil Affairs Division Excerpts from Official Instructions. . .... . 314
Department of the Army Official “Instructions: |... 6° Pe ee eee
Washington 25, D.C.
Printing and distribution of the
magazine is handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.
Reprint of any article, unless spe-
Cifically noted, is permitted with credit OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)
to the Information Bulletin and the CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH

author or source cited with the articles. BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OMGUS

German courts in the US Zone have
jurisdiction in some cases involving
postwar claims of money against Ger-
man governmental bodies and govern-
mental corporations. Formerly there
was no general authorization to pro-
ceed against a German governmental
body in the prosecution of a case
involving a claim for money damages,
and it was permitted in individual
cases only where Military Government
was convinced the case was one in-
volving a claim of unusual merit.

An iron lung has been shipped to
the University Children’s Clinic in
Frankfurt by the Public Health Branch,
OMGUS, as a gift from the National
Infantile Paralysis Foundation of the
United States. It will be used in
current poliomyelitis cases,

Bipartite Agencies

US travelers on compassionate leave
to the Bizonal Area, in order to obtain
food under a revised program, must
present both their passport and the
special identification document issued
by the Department of the Army when
applying to German food offices.
Compassionate visitors already in
Germany who were issued food stamps
before leaving the United States, prior
to the change in procedure, are not
affected by the new order.

The jurisdiction of the Bipartite
Control Office was expanded by the
transfer to Frankfurt of the Bipartite
Decartelization Commission.

MG approval was given Economic
Council Ordinance No. 31 concerning
the establishment of patent filing
offices. Approval of the ordinance
was regarded as the first step toward
revival of a German patent adminis-
tration, inoperative since the closing
of the Reich Patent Office in 1945.

The first international affiliation of
a German trade union since 1933

INFORMATION BULLETIN

—that of the bizonal railwey union
with the International Transport Work-
ers Federation—has been approved
by the British and US military
governments,

Operational control of all telephone,
telegraph and radio broadcast circuits
originating or terminating in the Bi-
zonal Area have been turned over to
the German Department for Posts and
Telecommunications.

Bizonal Activities

Idle German shipping tonnage con-
tinued to fluctuate between 40,000 and
82,000 deadweight tons. Deliveries
under major current commitments,
such as coal from the United Kingdom
to Hamburg and Kiel, and burnt ore
and woodpulp from Sweden, con-
stituted the principal cargoes carried
recently by German ships.

Increasing amounts of cheese have
been offered for sale since the currency
reform, with a resultant temporary
pileup on the market. To avoid
spoilage as a result of insufficient
storage space, half of the August
cheese ration was distributed during
the last week of July.

A decline in railroad income, caused
by a decrease in passenger traffic
since currency reform, prompted the
Bizonal Executive Committee to
approve a 25 percent reduction in
passenger fares and a 40 percent in-
crease in freight rates.

The section on Occupational
Activities is compiled from the
Semimonthly Report of Military
Government 96, official announce-
ments by MG and affiliated
organizations, and public infor-
mation offices throughout the
US Zone, to give a summary of
developments throughout the
occupied area of Germany.

2

goods to Austria and the import
the Bizonal Area of Austrian com
dities totaling $21,000,000 has
concluded between JEIA and repres

All records were broken by
export deliveries during July, ,
aggregated $55,000,000. This bro
to $285,000,000 the sum realized fr
the sale of export products from
Bizonal Area during the first sen
months of 1948. This figure is in
trast to export deliveries during al
1947 which totaled $222,032,900,

Economic Cooperation
Administration

All food items and agricultui
supplies requested for import
Bizonal Germany for the first 90-
period of the European Recove
Program have been approved —
Washington. Food purchases appro
by ECA for bizonal consumption
approximately $40,000,000.

ECA approval to proceed
purchase negotiations for an additio1
$3,500,000 worth of critical equipm
and raw materials essential to C
man economic recovery has
received. ;

A 280,000-ton allocation of fee
grains provided by ERP funds
send 1,000,000 good- sized pigs
market in the Bizone next year. U
the new scheme the grain—
corn—plus 50,000 tons of fish m
will be made available to farme
a contract-feeding basis.

Western Germany ©
Interzonal travel by Ge:
tween the French/US and French/Br
Zones of Germany is free of rest!
or control. The agreements, id
(Continued on Pag!

--- Page 6 ---
Civilianizing of

MILITARY GOVERNMENT COURTS

HE UNITED STATES has carried

out several occupations during
the past 100 years, and for the first
time it is establishing a civilianized
judicial system to replace the’ Army-
created Military Government courts
which have been functioning in the
US-controlled area of Germany since
World War II ended in 1945.

The new system, known as the
United States Military Government
Courts for Germany, consists of a
Court of Appeals composed of a
chief judge and six associate judges;
11 district courts and _ subordinate
magistrate courts, along with the
Office of Chief Attorney. It is di-
rectly under the Chief of Staff,
OMGUS, and has been relieved of
its former ties with the Legal Divi-
sion, OMGUS, and the state OMG's.

Judge William Clark of Princeton,
N.J., for many years a member of
the Federal bench, has been named
chief judge. Three associate judges
also have been appointed: Carl W.
Fulgham, chief of MG Courts Branch,
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden; Marc J.
Robinson, deputy chief, legal office,
OMG Hesse, and Juan A. Sedillo,
chief, legal office, OMG Bavaria.
Worth B. McCauley, deputy chief of
OMG Bavaria’s Legal Division, was
designated chief attorney.

Three MG ordinances have been
Promulgated, effective Aug. 18, to
effect this transition. They are No. 31,
“United States Military Government
Courts for Germany;" No. 32, “Code
of Criminal Procedure for United
States Military Government Courts
for Germany,” and No. 33, “Code of

Civil Procedure for United States
Military Government Courts for
Germany."

It is a recognized principle of

international law, Judge Clark has
Pointed out, that in an occupation by
foreign armies, whether belligerent
Or pacific, the occupying power has

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

a right to establish its own system of
courts, for only in this way can it be
sure that its security and that of its
troops is preserved and the public
order guaranteed.

N ALL the previous US occupations

during the past 100 years, the court
systems were military in character
and constituted provost courts or
military commissions. Their procedure
was taken from courts-martial and of
necessity lacked some of the equalities
and safeguards of the civilian courts.

These judicial procedures marked
the US occupation policies starting
with the occupation of Lower Cali-
fornia after the Mexican War and
carried out in several southern states
after the Civil War, in Cuba, Puerto
Rico and the Phillipines after the
Spanish-American War, in the Rhine-
land after World War I, and in south-
ern Germany during the first three
years after World War II.

The MG courts which functioned
in Germany prior to the recent
ordinances were established under

Judge William Clark, of Princeton,
N. J., chief of the Court of Appeals for
the newly-organized Military Govern-
ment courts in US-Occupied Germany.

(Army Signal Corps)

MG Ordinance No. 2 which was
enacted during the wartime days of
SHAEF. The ordinance was applied
as the armies entered Europe, pro-
gressed through France and Belgium
and finally into Germany, being
continued into the occupation, It
was drawn with a view of combat
conditions and was equally appli-
cable to post-combat conditions,

Actually Ordinance No. 2 did not
provide an integrated system. Each
court was an individual unit, respons-
ible to the state OMG director and
guided by various regulations, in-
structions and interpretations. Opin-
ions were not required, and when
written, were not published. There
was no opportunity for oral and
public argument. Review was ad-
ministrative and not judicial.

HE NEWLY-ESTABLISHED courts

are entirely civilian and follow
the features of the Federal courts in
the United States. Persons and cases
brought before them are surrounded
by the same ethical practices and
rights which are inherent in the
American system of justice. These
courts bear somewhat the same
relation to the German courts that
the ,US federal courts bear to the
state courts.

The New MG courts continue to
handle the cases of United Nations
nationals, displaced persons, German
nationals in whose case Military
Government has a direct interest,
dependents of US occupation per-
sonnel and other cases involving
US and Allied nationals as might
be referred to its jurisdiction.

Military personnel and _ civilian
employes of the Department of the
Army remain primarily subject to
courts martial.

The German courts are for cases
involving German nationals not con-
cerned under the jurisdiction of the
MG courts or courts-martial.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
While the courts are organized as
a separate unit directly under the
Chief of Staff, OMGUS, the Office of
the Chief Attorney and the prose-
cutors are part of the Legal Division,
OMGUS, in order to keep the court
personnel independent of the prose-
cution, The seat of the Court of
Appeals and of the Office of the Chief
Attorney is in Nuremberg.

In summarizing the ordinances set-
ting up the new court system, Col.
John M, Raymond, director of the
Legal Division, OMGUS, pointed out
that the Court of Appeals and the
Office of Chief Attorney were set up
as of Aug. 18, but the district courts
were to be established in each state
as soon as administrative arrange-
ments have been completed in that
state, He said an MG order would be
published stating the date each
district court became operative.

“At that time all cases in which
trial has been begun will be con-
tinued to a conclusion of the case
under the old system,” Colonel Ray-
mond explained. “All cases in which
trial has not been begun will be
transferred and processed under the
new system.” Although no provisions
are included for trial by jury, he
added, the ordinance was prepared so
that jury trial can be introduced.

MG ordinance No. 31 includes the
following provisions:

The Court of Appeals shall consist of the
Chief Judge and six associate judges. The
court shall sit in two panels of three mem-
bers each, But the full court shall sit in any
case in which the death penalty has been
imposed by a district court or in such other
cases as requested by two _or more judges
of the Court of Appeals, Two judges must
concur in a decision of a panel, and a ma-
jority of the judges sitting must concur in
a decision of the full court.

The judges shall have power to administer
oaths, to punish for contempt of court, to
act on applications for release from con-
finement, and to exercise al) other powers
incidental to the performance of their judicial
functions. Parties appearing before the Court
of Appeals either in person or by counsel
shall be entitled to submit briefs, and, by
leave of court, to make oral arguments, All
opinions shall be officially reported in the
English and German languages of which the
English shall be the official text.

The Court of Appeals may prescribe the
form of civil and criminal complaints, ans-
wers, motions, orders, petitions for leave to
appeal, appeal petitions, petitions for review,
and other formal papers which may be filed
in or issued by the MG courts. Subject to,
and consistent with applicable MG legislation,
directives and regulations, it may prescribe
and publish rules of practice and procedure
for the courts and for the admission and dis-
cipline of persons entitled to practice.

The Court of Appeals shall have a clerk
and a marshal end such other personnel as
may be required for the proper conduct of
its business. The clerk shall have authority

INFORMATION BULLETIN

to authenticate documents on behalf of the
court and to affix_the seal of the court of
such documents. The marshal shall have
authority to enforce the order of the Court.
The 11 judicial districts were established
as follows (note map on Page 5):

First: Bremen.

Second: US Sector Berlin.

Third: Northern Hesse; seat: Marburg.
Fourth: Southern Hesse; seat Frankfurt.

Fifth: Northern Wuerttemberg-Baden; seat:
Heidelberg,
Sixth: Southeastern Wuerttemberg-Baden;

seat: Stuttgart.
Seventh: Southwestern Bavaria; seat: Augs-
burg.
Eighth: South-central Bavaria; seat: Munich.
Ninth: Eastern Bavaria; seat: Regensburg.
Tenth: North-central Bavaria; seat: Ansbach.

Eleventh: Northwestern Bavaria; seat:
Wuerzburg.

Each district court shall consist of one or
more district judges and one or more
magistrates who shall sit singly except that
a district court composed of three district
judges or two district judges and a ma-
gistrate may hear and decide any civil or
criminal case, and, in the latter, may impose
any lawful sentence including death. A ma-
jority of such court shall decide any case
before it, provided that no sentence of death

Marc J. Robinson, an associate judge
of the Court of Appeals, who is former
deputy chief of the Legal Division,

OMG Hesse. (PIO OMGH)

shall be imposed except by the unanimous
decision of the court.

A district judge sitting singly may hear
and decide any criminal case and may im-
pose any sentence allowed by law not ex-
ceeding imprisonment for a term of 10 years
or a fine of $10,000 (or such equivalent in
Deutsche marks or other currency as may be
prescribed) or both such imprisonment and
fine. He may hear and decide any civil case.

A magistrate sitting singly may hear and
decide any criminal case and may impose
any sentence allowed by law not exceeding
imprisonment for a term of 12 months or a
fine of $1,000 (or such equivalent in Deutsche
marks or other currency as may be pres-
cribed) or both such imprisonment and fine.

In addition to or in lieu of any authorized
Power of sentence, a district judge or a
magistrate may make such order concerning
any property or business involved in an
offense, or make such order concerning the
person of the accused as is authorized by
law. Where an accused is charged with an
offense under German law, the court shall
be limited to the sentence or other penal
provision of such law.

Any person convicted by a magistrate
shall be entitled to file a petition for review
to the district court, specifying the errors
which it is alleged were committed. The
record of the case shall be reviewed by a
district judge.

A record shall be made and kept of all
proceedings in the district courts, including
Proceedings before magistrates in such form
as shalt be prescribed by rule of the Court
of Appeals and written opinions shall be filed
by the district judges in all cases heard by

4

them, Each district court shall have a cle
and a marsha] and such other personnel
may be required for the proper conduct
its business.
District courts shall have criminal ji
diction over all persons in the US area
control except persons, other than Civil
who are subject to military, naval or
force law and serving with any fore
the United Nations. No person subject
US military law shall be brought to tria
any offense except upon authorization ©
Commander-in-Chief, European Command
member of an Allied mission, visiting go
mental official, or person subject to —
military law of any country other than”
United States, shall be brought to trial
any offense except upon authorizatio
the Military Governor,

District courts shall have jurisdiction
hear and decide cases involving: off
under legislation issued by or under ~
authority of the Allied Control Co
offenses under MG legislation, and off
under German law in force in the ji
district.

District courts shall have exclusive
diction to hear and decide all civil ca
over which jurisdiction is denied to Ger
courts by itary Government. The di
courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction
German courts to hear and decide civil ¢
in which a national of any of the y
Nations or a stateless person is a party,

District courts may exercise civil
diction in the following cases only;
for damages arising out of the operat!
motor vehicles not owned by the US Go
ment, cases brought by Military Gove
for the enforcement of penalties or
feitures, and cases brought under the
visions ‘concerning the Rhine navigation,

District courts may exercise civil f
diction only in cases in which the cause)
action arose in the US Area of Control,
with respect to transitory causes of at
arising elsewhere in Gernfany, in whid
least one party, at the time of filing the
plaint, resides or is stationed, or
juristic person has its principal place
business, within the US area of control, ”

The trial of all criminal cases, except
Rhine navigation cases, shall be by
district court in the district in whi
alleged offense was committed, unl
judge of the Court of Appeals on appli
of the chief attorney directs that it
in the district where the accused was i
or stationed at the time the alleged off
was committed, or in the district where #
accused was arrested or imprisoned,

The trial of all civil cases, except
Rhine navigation cases, shall be b
district court: in the district in whit
defendant resides is stationed, or is fo
or, if a juristic person, has its principal pl
of business; in the district where the ca
of action arose; or in the district in
real property which is the subject o}
litigation is situated.

Criminal and civil cases under the Revi
Rhine Navigation Act shall be tried by_
district court for either the Fourth or F
Judicial District. i

The district court in which the case is
may grant a change of venue upon @
for that purpose made prior to the
mencement of trial, and upon its own mo
at any stage of the proceedings, where
clear that the interests of justice of
convenience of the parties will be
thereby.

The Court of Appeals shall have or
jurisdiction to act on applications for r
from confinement when the person is
fined by virtue of a sentence of a
composed of more than one judge. It_
have appellate jurisdiction to consider
appeal final orders of individual judg
the Court of Appeals and final judg
and orders of the district judges exci
Rhine navigation cases.

The appeal may include both questi
fact, except that, in dealing with quest
of fact the court shall set aside or re'
the decision of the district court in eri
cases only if the evidence a_ reason
doubt and in civil cases only if the evider

SEPTEMBER 7

--- Page 8 ---
4,

FIRST DISTRICT

Judicial districts
of US Military

THIRO DISTRICT Courts for Germany

&

BREMEN
e

US SECTOR
BERLIN
SECOND DISTRICT.

%

e
MARBURG

o

Gs FOURTH DISTRICT J!
ro
FRANKFURT ~ ’
e (77M

ELEVENTH DISTRICT

‘
WUERZBURG
Yay 8
rd vy) wey, TENTH DISTRICT
- «¢ &« )
t cy
Vn. “%
=e rr
@ G4 = FIFTH oIsTRiCT

HEIDELBERG

NINTH DISTRICT

v
e
REGENSBURG

SIXTH DISTRICT ro)

e p
STUTTGART

AUGSSURG @

\ SeveNTH DISTRICT

e
MUNICH

EIGHTH DISTRICT

SEPTEMBER 7 1948 5 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
does not
ment,

The Court of Appeals shall grant leave to
appeal in any criminal case upon application
of the person or persons convicted, or in
any civil case upon application of any party
or parties thereto, if it appears that the
decision of the district court is in conflict
with a decision of another district court or
of the Court of Appeals, or that there has
been a denial of due process of law, or
that an important question of law is- pre-
sented, or that the rights of any party mak-
ing application for appeal have been sub-
stantially prejudiced.

In any case in which a district court has
imposed a penalty of 10 years or more, the
Court of Appeals shall upon application of
the person or persons convicted, grant leave
to appeal. Even though no petition for appeal
is filed, the Court of Appeals shall consider
every case in which a district court has
imposed a sentence of death in the same
way as if the defendant had claimed and
been granted leave to appeal.

Even though no petition is filed for review
of a decision of a magistrate or for appeal
from _a judgment or order of a district court,
the Court of Appeals may call up and review
any criminal case in which it believes that
the rights of a defendant may have been
substantially prejudiced; and it may by rule
or order provide for such review of all
criminal cases in certain categories.

Upon any appeal or review the Court of
Appeals may reduce the sentence, vacate
the findings in whole or in part, enter a
judgment for tthe defendant or set the judg-
ment, or findings and sentence aside and
order a new trial, and issue any other order
or orders appropriate in the circumstances.
In any case on review under provisions of
the previous paragraph where a new trial
is ordered and such new trial results in a
conviction, the sentence may not be increased,

The district courts of the Fourth and Fifth
Judicial Districts shall have competence to
sit as Rhine Navigation Courts for the pur-
poses of the revised Rhine Navigation Act
of Oct. 17, 1868.

Such courts shall have criminal jurisdiction
to investigate and punish all violations of
megulations concerning navigation and the
policing of the river, to impose fines there-
for of not less than DM 50 and not more than
DM 1,000, and in default of payment to im-
pose a term of imprisonment not exceeding
one month,

Such courts shall have civil jurisdiction to
decide, in summary proceedings, actions con-
cerning the payment and the amount of pilot
fees, cranage, weighing fees, harbor and
pier dues; concerning obstructions placed by
individuals on the tow path; concerning
damages to others caused by boatmen or
raftsmen during a voyage or while landing;
and concerning claims against the owners of
horses used in towing boats up-stream for
damages to landed property.

Appeals from a decision of a district court
sitting as a Rhine Navigation Court may be
made to the commission Centrale du Rhine,
as prescribed by Article 37 of the Revised
Rhine Navigation Act, instead of to tbe
Court of Appeals. In exercising such juris-
diction the court shall be governed by rele-
vant German legislation applicable to Rhine
Navigation Courts in effect immediately be-
fore Nov. 14, 1936 insofar as such legislation
is not inconsistent with these provisions.

A district attorney and one or more
assistant district attorneys shall be appointed
for each judicial district. The district attor-
ney shall prepare and file criminal com-
plaints and prosecute all criminal cases in
the district court of his district. He shall
represent Military Government in all cases
before that court. District attorneys shall be
subject to the supervision and direction of
Pe chief attorney in the performance of their
luties.

The chief attorney may appoint one of the
district attorneys in each state in which there
is more than one district as chief district
attorney for that state. The chief district
attorney, or the district attorney where there
is no chief district attorney, shall consult,

ed

substantically support the judge-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

from time to time, with the OMG director
or with his chief legal officer in order to
insure proper coordination in the prosecution
of criminal offenses.

The chief attorney shall be responsible for
the conduct of his office and the supervision
and direction of all district attorneys. He
shall act for the prosecution in all criminal
cases brought before the Court of Appeals.
He shail represent Military Government in
all cases before that court. He or one of
his assistants may assume the prosecution
of, or the representation of Military Govern-
ment im, any case in a district court.

The chief judge and associate judges of the
Court of Appeals and the chief attorney shall
be appointed by the Military Governor upon
the advice of his leqal adviser. All other
judges and magistrates shall be appointed
by or under the authority of the Military
Governor upon the advice of his legal ad-
viser and the chief judge of the Court of

Articles in previous issues of
the Information Bulletin dealing
with MG courts and the judicial
system in the US occupied areas
include:
Legislative and Judicial Policy,
No. 1, July 28, 1945.

Legal Division, No. 79, Feb. 10,
1947,

New Role in MG Courts, No.
101, July 14, 1947.

It's the Law, No. 127, Jan. 27,
1948,

Habeas Corpus, No. 127, Jan.
27, 1948.

Courts in Germany, Part II,
No. 135, May 18, 1948.

Texts of the Three ordinances,
No. 31, No. 32 and No. 33, are
given, both in English and Ger-
man, in OMGUS letter, AG
010.6 (LD), dated Aug. 16.

Appeals. All assistants to the chief attorney
and all district attorneys and their assistants
shall be appointed by or under the authority
of the Military Governor upon the advice
of his legal adviser and the chief attorney.

A judge or magistrate shall not be removed
from his office while such office continues
to exist, prior to the termination of his US
contract of employment in Germany, except
upon formal charges and for cause. Judges
of the Court of Appeals shall be entitled to
a hearing by the Military Governor, or his
representative, before being removed from
office for cause. All other judges and ma-
gistrates shall be entitled to a hearing before
the Court of Appeals, sitting in banc, before
being removed from office for cause.

The chief judge and associate judges of the
Court of Appeals, district judges, magistrates,
the chief attorney and his assistants, and the
district attorneys and their assistants must
be graduates in law and members in good
standing of the bar of one of the states of the
United States or of the District of Columbia,
and must have been engaged in active legal
work as an attorney at law. as judge of a
court of record, or as a teacher of law at a
law school approved by the American Bar
Association for at least:

6

Ten years in the cases of the chief judge
and associate judges of the Court of Appeals,
and the chief attorney.

Five years in the cases of the district
judges, and assistants to the chief attorney,

Three years in the cases or magistrates
and district attorneys.

Two years in the cases of assistant district
attorneys.

The above qualifications may be waived
by the Military Governor in any particular
case upon written recommendation of his
legal adviser.

Judge Clark served as judge of the
New Jersey Court of Errors and
Appeals for two years, on the US
District Count of New Jersey for 14
years, and the US Circuit Court of
Appeals, Third Circuit, for four years,
In World War II, he served for six
months as a colonel on General
MacArthur's staff in the Pacific, and
for 31/2 years as liaison officer with
the British armies in North Africa,
Sicily, Italy and Normandy.

Consultant to the director of the
Legal Division, OMGUS, since January,
1948, when he arrived in Berlin, Judge
Clark thas served on the Military Gov-
ernment Court for Civil Actions, and
made astudy of judicial conditions in
the Military Government court system,

Mr. Fulgham, associate judge, was
for eight years a county judge in Gar-
field County, Colo. He served for three
years as district attorney,-9th Judicial
District, Colorado, and for 16 years
was US commissioner for the District
of Colorado. During World War II,
he was a major in the Army, serving
as legal specialist.

Mr. Robinson, associate judge, prac-
ticed law in Boston for 18 years.
During World War II he was a cap-
tain and received legal assignments in
Military Government, including that
of chief legal officer, 7th Army.

Mr. Sedillo, associate judge, prac-
ticed law for 10 years in Santa Fe.
N.M. He was state senator for four
years, and became chairman of the
Judiciary Committee. During World
War II he served as colonel in the
Judge Advocate General's Office.

Mr. McCauley, chief attorney, prac-
ticed law for 12 years in Oklahoma.
A major in JAG during the war, he
served as Post Judge Advocate, Trial
Judge Advocate and Defense Counsel
on Special and General Courts-
Martial and Staff Liaison Officer.

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 10 ---
Allied-German Teams to Check Grain

For the first time since the occupa-
tion of Germany, combined Allied-
German agricultural field teams will
check the winter rye and wheat yields
in the Bizonal Area, it was announced
by the Bipartite Food, Agriculture and
Forestry Group.

The check will be made by cutting,
threshing and weighing samples from
fields chosen at random. The system,
although new in Germany, has been
used successfully for many years in
the United States, Great Britain and
other countries.

Plans for the Bizonal Area check
were worked out by German officials
of the Bizonal Administration for
Food, Agriculture and Forestry, state
statistical offices, and food specialists
from BICO and the US Department of
Agriculture,

The actual field tests will be carried
out by teams composed of one offi-
cial each of Military Government, the
Bizonal Administration for Food, Agri-
culture and Forestry, the state Agri-
culture Ministry, state statistical office
and the county administration.

The device used for measuring
grain taken is simple. It is a U-shaped
iron instrument on which the open
end can be closed, encompassing
exactly one square meter (1.2 square
yards) of grain plants, The heads of
the grain enclosed are cut and put
in a bag, labeled and sent to a central
point in the state,

Here the grain will be threshed and
weighed, moisture content determined
and complete records kept, including
the location from which it is taken.
In addition, about 10 percent of the
fields yielding the samples will be
cut, threshed and weighed to provide
a check on the estimates made from
the square meter tests.

Samples will be taken from the
counties in each state which are most
Tepresentative grain-producers. Check-
ing will start at the community level
by choosing at random two sample
fields in each community. Five
Samples will be cut from each field
chosen for testing.

The number of fields of winter rye
to be sampled in each state will be:
Bavaria, 400; Wuerttemberg-Baden,

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

100; Hesse, 260; Schleswig-Holstein,
250; Lower Saxony, 400; North Rhine-
Westphalia, 350.

For winter wheat, the figures will
be: Bavaria, 400; Wuerttemberg-
Baden, 100; Hesse, 200; Schleswig-
Holstein, 200; Lower Saxony, 200, and
North Rhine-Westphalia, 230,

Extra Training

To supplement the orthodox train-
ing for professional legal personnel
in Germany, Military Government has
formulated a plan providing addi-
tional training and educational oppor-
tunities for legal interns.

Each minister of justice has instituted
an extensive orientation course in all
of the justice agencies within his
tespective ministry. For example, in
Wuerttemberg-Baden the program is
being effectuated by voluntary groups
of bench, bar, and law schools, and
consists principally of lectures by
leading authorities on timely legal
questions.

Caritas Verband

The German Caritas Verband, a Cath-
olic welfare organization, reported
that 120,000 workers are employed in
its various projects and 600,000 ad-
ditional persons engaged as voluntary
helpers.

The following institution are owned
and operated by the Caritas Verband:
800 hospitals, 25 tuberculosis centers,

29 special medical institutions, 101 in-

stitutions for permanent invalids, 158
homes for mothers and children, 600
children’s and orphans’ homes,
5,200 parish nursing homes, 3,500 kind-
ergartens and 2,500 needlework
schools.

Restitution Claims

Of the 19,681 non-cultural restitu-
tion claims filed to date, 24.3 percent
have been satisfied, 23.2 percent have
been rejected or dropped because of
failure to locate the items, and
52.5 percent remain active. The total
valuation placed on the property
restituted to date is $106,708,760 in
terms of 1938 replacement costs.

7

Directive Outlines
Remittance Plan

A directive issued to the Bank of
German States by the Allied Bank
Commission has established the pro-
cedure for making personal remit-
tances by individuals in the United
States to Germans residing within the
three western zones.

American banks may accept remit-
tances in the United States and trans-
fer the amount in dollars to the Bank
of German States via the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. The
Bank of German States in turn will
forward, via the German Postal
system, the amount of the remittance
in Deutsche marks converted at a
30-cent rate.

The Bank of German States has
been directed to extend this proce-
dure as speedily as possible to other
countries with whom special payment
arrangements may be established.

Zone Aid Sought on Claims

British, French, and Soviet author-
ities have been requested to distri-
bute forms to Germans within their re-
spective zones who are eligible to
file claims under US Public Law 671
for the return of property held by the
Office of the US Custodian of Alien
Property, and to request the appoint-
ment of attorneys in fact for such pro-
perties.

The occupation authorities have
also been requested to authorize, at
state level, the granting of licenses for
the execution of these forms.

Educators Cooperating

Reports from Bavaria and Hesse in-
dicate that school officials are be-
coming more cooperative in their re-
lationships with youth groups. In
Bavaria, permission has been given
to organized youth groups to use
schoolrooms for evening meetings,
and in Hesse a special committee,
which met to discuss methods of
cooperation between schools and youth
groups, recommended that professional
youth leaders be invited to attend
teachers’ meetings.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
(left) Globemaster, US Army '‘s larg
cargo plane, being unloaded for 20 tong
of flour at the British Gatow Airfit
in Berlin after its initial flight Aug,
(above) For its return flight, the
carried the automobile of an Ameri
civilian out of the city.

Soviet Blockade Fails
To Subjugate Berlin

This statement was issued by Col. Frank L. Howley, comman
of the US Sector of Berlin, on Aug. 18. ;

IFTY-FIVE DAYS AGO (on June 24) the Soviet authorities
into effect a blockade of the western sectors of Berlin. Sine
time American and British planes have brought into Berlin mor
100,000 tons of food, coal, medical supplies and other vital mat

Each resident of the three western sectors is receiving as mil
food as he did before the blockade. Vital medical supplies
hand in the western sectors in more than sufficient quantity,
ities are functioning, powered by air-borne coal—a proce
without procedent.

above) Johannes Stumm, appointed by the City Magistrat Fi
pe fe Ri by the Wisteca BOWere Ge ae prenident In short, the Soviet blockade has failed in its attempt to
of police to replace Paul Markgraf, Moscow-trained the democratic people of Berlin into submission.

former German army officer still recognized J
Y eee nCHtes. pes As result the Soviets have now embarked on a new comp

C-54 burning on edge of Having shown themselves willing to let Germans starve under a
Tempelhof Airport in US blockade imposed without warning, they now calmly state im
Sector, Berlin, after over- press and on their radio stations that the blockade was caused
shooting runway in Aug. 13 ; ;

rainstomm/ Three Graw mein- western powers and that the Soviets are generously prepared t
bers escaped unhurt. food and coal to western sector residents willing to come on B

knee to the Soviet Sector.

Several weeks ago Soviet authorities announced that they”
ready and willing to feed the entire city of Berlin. Shortly aftet
announcement they made a series of entirely unjustified attacks 0
head of the city food office, blaming him for growing food shor
in the Soviet Sector. a

Even as they embarked on their propaganda campaign procia
their ability and desire to feed all of Berlin, residents of parts 0
Soviet Sector were not receiving their full bread ration,

This morning (Aug. 18) Radio Berlin and the Taegliche Ru
(Soviet-operated radio station and newspaper) announced that (Si

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 12 ---
Marshal) Sokolowski has agreed to release
60,000 tons of coal for spaceheating to all
residents of the Soviet Sector and residents
*of the western sector whose ration cards
are registered in the Soviet Sector.

T IS INTERESTING to note that of the

60,000 tons to be distributed 57,100 tons
will be required to complete the distrib-
ution, on the basis outlined in the
announcement, in the Soviet Sector alone.
This would leave 2,900 tons for distribution
to western sector residents,

To actually make a full distribution to
the western sectors would require not
2,900 tons but 96,400 tons. Obviously

er Soviet mathematics are bad, Soviet
intent is bad, or both Soviet mathematics
and intent are bad.

The Soviet blockade has to date robbed
Berlin of 400,000 tons of hard coal and
100,000 tons of hard coal briquettes.

The 2,900 tons of coal which the Soviets
have offered to supply to the population
of the western sector actually comes from
the 13,000 tons of coal the western author-
ites sent to the Soviet Sector to heat
the households of that sector before the
Russians halted further deliveries.

(left) Berlin housewife, on behalf of
her 13-month-old son, presents a good-
luck gift to US pilot for food flown
into beleaguered city. (right) Ccal
arrives in US Army duffel bags.

The Russians have blocked the
Western plan to provide all house-
holds of Berlin with an average of 18
hundredweight each during the com-
ing winter.

Furthermore, it would be interesting
to learn whether the same four “‘de-
mocratic parties” which requested
this latest Berlin distribution have
also requested Sokolowski to issue
spaceheating coal in the Soviet Zone,
and how much coal Sokolowski has
actually released.

HIS PROPAGANDA distribution

of coal in Berlin unfortunately
does not solve the numerous problems
which must be expected during the
coming winter. However, the Econo-
mics Department of the city Magistrat
is at present determining the basic
needs of the Berlin populations this
winter and plans are being made for
procuring the largest possible amount
of critical supplies.

The final solution of the Berlin
food and coal problem can best be
attained, of course, by having the
Russians and their stooge SED (So-
Cialist Unity Party) lift entirely the
brutal blockade which they have
imposed upon Berlin.

(right) Pilots wait at
Wiesbaden Air Base for
their call for the Be

run on “Operation Vitt-
Jes’, (lower left) British
Sunderland, giant RAF
flying boat, being un-
loaded of 140 cases of
egg powder on_ the
Wannsee, large Berlin
lake. {lower right) Huge
outdoor storage area al
Giessen Quartermaster
Depot of supplies ior
“Operations Vittles”.

--- Page 13 ---
New Bavaria Hunting Rules Listed

New hunting regulations for Bavar-
ia, setting seasons on all types of
game, have been announced by the
Forestry Section, OMG Bavaria.

Rescinding all previous regulations
issued for Bavaria, the new directives
require that all authorized hunters
must be accompanied by a German
guide while hunting hoofed game
(deer, chamois and wild boar).

Local MG detachments will provide
lists of guides, who are either pro-
fessional hunters or foresters, or
owners and lease holders of hunting
grounds, The guides must report all
game killed by species and sex
through the county game warden to
Military Government,

Hunting with rifles is permitted
only in organized parties of two or
more individuals accompanied by a
guide, and the leader of the party
must have a special hunting permit
for the hunt issued by a Special Ser-
vice officer,

Drive hunting and hunting at night
is forbidden except for wild boar. Full
automatic or semi-automatic rifles
are prohibited, and hunters must know
the types of weapons and ammunition
authorized according to EUCOM Cir-
cular No. 58, Shooting from autos,
trucks, from or across hard-surfaced
toads is forbidden,

The US Constabulary and Military
Police are charged with enforcing the

regulations, and violators may be tried
by appropriate court martial or MG
court. Penalties for illegal hunting in-
clude fines up to $75, revocation of
hunting and fishing privileges for a
period not less than one year, and
possible confiscation of weapons and
illegal equipment. In all violations

where a private vehicle is involved,

the owner will be held responsible
unless other proof is offered.

The new hunting regulations provide the
following season for the most important types
of game: male red deeer (Hirsch) Sept. 1 —
Nov, 15; female and calves, red deer (Rot-
wild), Sept. 16 — Nov. 15; male roe deer
(Rehwild), June 1 — Oct. 15; female and
calves, roe deer Sept. 16 — Nov. 30; chamois
(Gemse), Nov. 1 — Nov. 30; hare and rabbit,
Sept. 16 — Jan. 15; Alpine hare, Oct. 1 —
Jan. 15,

The following counties, however, are closed
for the hunting of roe deer during 1948 and
1949: In Upper  Bavaria—Berchtesgaden,
Erding, _Freising, _ Garmisch-Partenkirchen,
Landsberg, Munich, Schongau, Starnberg; in
lower Franconia—Alzenau, Koenigshofen, Lohr,
Marktheidenfeld; in Middle Franconia—Fuerth
and Erlangen, and Griesbach in Lower Bavaria
and Schwabmuenchen in Swabia.

For important game birds the seasons are:
partridge, Sept. 1 — Nov. 30, bag limit, four
per day; wild pigeon, Aug. 1 — April 1, ten
per day; wild dud, Aug. 1—March 1, ten
per day; wild geese, Aug. 1—Mard 1, two
per day.

Killing of predators and game causing crop
damage, both male and female, is authorized
at all times. These include: wild boar, fox,
polecat, buzzard, hawk, crew, crested grabe
and heron,

Certain game, such as fallow deer, muffle
sheep, ibex, otter, weasel and squirrels, are
protected and may not be hunted at any time.
Hunters may obtain complete details on
seasons for all types of game from local
Military Government offices in Bavaria.

US Teachers Lecture at Information Centers

US Information Centers in Germany
have added a new phase to their

regular educational program—talks
by visiting American university
teachers.

The visitors, principally professors
from Mid-West universities, lectured
and led discussions on such varied
themes as “Racial and Ethnic Rela-
tions in America, “News from the
North (Scandinavia),” “Religious
Aspects in America," “The Nature of
Democratic Cooperation," ‘Biology,’
and "The Evolution of the American
Theater."

Other speakers discussed “American
Community Life,“ “The Women's
Place in the Community,” “American

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Universities of Today,” “The History
of the United States,’ and “Two
American Poets: Poe and Whitman.”

Catholics Visit DPs

Six US representatives of the Na-
tional Catholic Welfare Conference
are touring displaced persons camps
in the three western zones of Ger-
many and Austria, to gather infor-
mation for the Dioceses Catholic Re-
settlement Committee. The Committee
is a nation-wide organization which
provides personal and corporate affi-
davits for displaced persons of the
Catholic faith in Europe, and employ-
ment and accommodations for them in
the United States.

10

New York Bars Sell
Beer from Bavaria

The beer for which Bavaria is fg.
mous is appearing again in bette;
bars and restaurants of New York,
More than 480,000 bottles of Salvator
dark and Thomas light beer leave
Bremen every month for New York
as part shipment of a million-dollar
contract madefthrough JEIA’s Bavarian
Branch with H rates exporter.

Negotiations are now pending to
ship an additional 2,500 barrels of
beer to America every month. Barrels,
formerly unavailable, have been pro-
vided by the American buyer and will
be shuttled back and forth between
Bremen and New York.

Materials such as hops and barely
are home grown, insuring the special
flavor of Munich beer. Formerly bar-
ley, a controlled product had to be
supplied by the buyer. However,
recent regulations permit the release
of this commodity from the German
economy against the importation of a
caloric equal to be used to supplement
the German diet.

Health Group Functions

The Health Committee and _ its
Narcotics Subcommittee of the US
Zone Council of States in still func-
tioning although the Council's activ-
ities were terminated in June.

It was decided that, to preserve
the continuity of their work, the
Health Committee and the Narcotics
Subcommittee be maintained: until a
public heaith department is estab-
lished in the western zones or until
some other temporary bizonal or
trizonal narcotic control system is
set up.

Theological Enrollment Higher ,

In the theological faculties and
seminaries of the Evangelical Chur
in Germany, 3,660 students were e&
rolled during the winter semester 4
1947-48, as compared with 1,392 di
ing that of 1945-46. Of the 1947. .
total, 2,953 were enrolled in instittr
tions of the three western Zoneg,
while 707 were in institutions of the
Soviet Zone and in Berlin.

SEPTEMBER 7 198

--- Page 14 ---
a

TO

EW AND PROGRESSIVE farming

methods developed by German
research are being taken out of the
laboratory files and made available
to the farmers in the fields through
the inauguration under Military Gov-
ernment guidance of a program of
agricultural extension work modeled
after the widely successful system in
the United States,

The agricultural extension program
was launched in an effort to bridge
the gap between laboratory and
farm—between theoretical knowledge
and practical application—when it
was discovered that German farmers,
despite the many advances in Ger-
man agricultural research, were still
using antiquated methods,

For the model, MG officers turned
to the United States, where its agri-
cultural extension scheme has long
been an integral part of the state
educational system and of a nation-
wide program to increase farm pro-
duction and raise the standard of
tural living.

MG food and agriculture officers
uncovered a very confused picture in
their survey in 1945 of the German
agricultural extension activities, There
were six agricultural colleges in the
US and British Zones, some world
famous such as Hohenheim in ‘Wuert-
temberg-Baden and the Weihen-
Stephan Institute in Bavaria, But these

By Elise F. Hawtin
Public Information Office
Office of US Chairman
Bipartite Control Ofifce

colleges, which had been under the
Reich Ministry of Education, were
concerned only with advanced in-
struction for persons who intended
to make a career in agricultural
teaching or administration, The re-
search institutions, on the other hand,
which numbered more than 60 in the
combined zones, had been under the
Reich Ministry of Agriculture. No
channel existed for coordinating re-
search work with college instruction.

T THE LOCAL COUNTY level

advisory work, such as it was,
was performed by the 161 agricultural
winter schools, located in the present
Bizonal Area, These schools were
established to give farm boys and
girls brief instruction during the
winter months in practical farm prob-
lems. During the summer months
the teaching staff was available for
farm consultation,

MG officials found that the part-
time advisory service performed by
the school staffs was entirely insuffi-
cient. A check on how teachers di-
vided their working time revealed

atch.

that in Bavaria farm visits took up
only from 15 to 30 percent of the
teachers’ time. In Hesse only 30 per-
cent of a teacher's time was spent in
visiting actual farms; in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden about 10 percent,

Furthermore, not all of the counties
even had an agricultural school, In
Bavaria almost half of the counties
had no such school, and half of the
existing schools did not have any
farmers advisory service, Farm ad-
visory services were offered by other
groups—notably the farm advisory
associations in the northern German
states and in Hesse—but the service
was available only to those who can
afford to pay, thus automatically
ruling out the small farmer,

MG officers pointed out that in the
United States almost every county
has one man and one woman exten-
sion agent, paid from public funds,
who devote their entire time to ad-
visory work with farm groups, none
to classroom teaching. For the Bizone
they set as their immediate goal at
least one full-time cooperative agri-
cultural advisory agent for each
county.

HE GERMAN county advisory
Hy agent had no access to educa-
tional material and no intermediary
extension workers to whom he could

German and Military Government agricultural specialists confer at Stuttgart on ways to improve crops. Ad-
dressing the conference is Erich Ro.

ssmann, former secretary-general of the now defunc.

t US Council of States.

--- Page 15 ---
refer back a particularly knotty prob-
Jem—as are available in the United
States. German educators and food
and agriculture officials failed to see
the significance of the missing link
until it was pointed out to them in
1945 by Dr. Conrad M, Hammar, who
is in charge of Bizonal Agricultural
Education, Research and Extension
Activities for the Bipartite Food and
Agriculture Group.

Agricultural college professors like-
wise scoffed at the advice that they
were out of contact with the farm
population and teaching agriculture
in an ivory tower. Later’on, however,
as they were introduced to the US
conception of a broad rural education
program, extending from laboratory
to individual farm, they admitted the
merit of the US system, and readily
ack towledged that overcrowded class-
es and crammed teaching schedules
made it virtually impossible for them
to devote any time to outside farm
assistance,

ECOGNIZING the urgency of

establishing a program to increase
agricultural production through the
development of a well-informed agri-
cultural population, German agricul-
tural educators, scientists and ad-
ministrators met in the spring of 1947
to establish an agricultural research
and advisory committee. This com-
mittee, composed of 30 Germans, six
American visiting consultants and
MG _ representatives, immediately
undertook to study the more pressing
problems of agricultural research,
education, advisory services, home
economics and farm youth activities
and to map out a long range program
of action.

By the following fall a special state
advisory committee had been estab-
lished in each of the southern Ger-
man states, composed of about 15
leading German agricultural ad-
ministrators, educators, research work-
ers, representatives of farmers’ or-
ganizations and individual farmers.
Problems of education, research, ex-
tension, home economics and youth
activities were delegated to a half-
dozen subcommittees.

Since their establishment these com-
mittees have conducted zonal surveys
on methods to improve agricultural

INFORMATION BULLETIN

extension work, home demonstration
work and youth participation pro-
grams. They have drafted preliminary
legislation for strengthening the farm
advisory service at the county, state
and bizonal levels, and assisted in a
four-zone census of agricultural
schools and research institutions.

On the strength of the recommend-
ations made by the first zonal com-
mittees following completion of their
initial exploratory surveys, the bi-
zonal agricultural advisory services
subsidies bill was drafted for sub-
mission to the Bizonal Economic
Council. This proposed act would lay
the legal goundwork for establishing
a cooperative agricultural exten-
sion service throughout the Bizonal
Area of Germany for the ulti-
mate purpose of increasing farm

Material for this article was
given to Mrs. Hawtin by US
members of the Food, Agricul-
ture and Forestry Group of the
Bipartite Control] Office in Frank-
furt.

Photographs were provided by
Mr. George W. Ware, agricul-
tural education officer of the
Education and Cultural Relations
Division, OMGUS, in Nuremberg.

production and raising rural standards
of living. The plan called for a co-
operative agricultural advisory ser-
vice office at bizonal level, and a
seven-man cooperative agricultural
advisers board for each state. Each
state would have its own director of
agricultural advisory services and
corps of agricultural extension spe-
cialists administratively attached to
a state college of agriculture,

INCE THE MAJORITY of agricul-

tural institutions had derived
their main source of revenue from
central national funds, the proposed
legislation called for the allocation
of funds to the individual states from
the central bizonal budget to cover
the cost of the extension project. A
stipulation was attached however,
that only 30 percent of the funds
could be spent on administrative
work, the balance must be expended

12

on actual work performed in commu-
nity activities.

Progress has been made in getting
the projected plan translated into
action. Individual states such as
Wuerttemberg-Baden and Bavaria
have already gone ahead on their
own plans to establish agricultural
advisers boards. The Agricultural
College at Giessen has been the first
of the bizonal institutions to establish
an extension branch alongside the
established teaching and research
branches,

The program is still in its rudimen-
tary stages. Dr. Hammar pointed out
that it has taken the United States
more than 30 years to develop its ex-
tension program to its present peak
of efficient operation. Military Go-
vernment can hardly hope to. ac-
complish the same feat in war de-
vastated Germany inside a single
year.

OT THE LEAST of the original

difficulties lay in overcoming
the, opposition of many different
groups of society to the idea of a
rural adult aducation program. First
the farmers had to be won over to
the idea that what was good enough
in the way of farm techniques for
their grandfathers was not necessarily
good enough for them. Next, the edu-
cators had to be convinced of the ne-
cessity for disseminating valuable un-
published research results in popular
form,

The chief bone of contention was
who would control the farm educa-
tion program. Many local private
agricultural interests were enthusiastic
about the new plan, but felt that they
should be allowed to administer the
details, This view was particularly
strong in Bavaria, where the powerful
agricultural association felt that it
should control any farm education
program.

It was necessary to point out that
the extension program, as part of a
broad program for rural adult edu-
cation, was an educational matter and
should not be controlled or financed
by private sources. General educa-
tion, Dr. Hammar had to emphasize
repeatedly, must be divorced from
private interests if it was to remain
objective and non-partisan,

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 16 ---
German and US officials (left) visit the tobacco experimental.station in Forchheim, Wuertiemberg-Baden. They
include (left to right) Dr. C. O, Brannen of the University of Arkansas;

Mr, George Ware, agricultural

education officer of OMGUS, and Dr. Paul Koenig, director of the tobacco station. In photo at right, US and
German officials discuss ways of keeping farmers better informed. Seated (left to right) are Mr. L. M. Busche
of Indiana; Dr. Zehentner of Bavaria, and Mr. Leonhardt of Hesse. Standing are Baron Otto Seury of Bavaria,

Since the small farmer would be
the principal beneficiary of the new
scheme, it would be singularly un-
fitting for any part of the program
to be administered by the large farm
Management corporations and ad-
visory associations from which the
small farmer was usually excluded.
These various organizations would,
however, be represented on the state
advisory board, along with represen-
tatives of small gardeners, farm
youth, farm women’s organizations
and the state ministries for food and
education,

IQUALLY IMPORTANT was the

Separation of education from
government regulatory and control
functions. In the United States the
cooperative extension program is pure-
ly educational. It has no administra-
tion connection with Department of
Agriculture agencies which carry out
Control and inspection measures and
enforce regulations,

Because of the fact that the direct-
or of the German agricultural winter
Schools frequently has the dual job
of teaching and enforcing agricultural
Tegulations and collection quotas,
farmers tend to regard the information
Pamphlets and free agricultural ad-
vice disseminated by the schools as

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

Mr. Ware, and Mr. Schetter of Hesse.

government propaganda on behalf of
unpopular food control measures.

It has not been MG's intention that
the new cooperative agricultural ad-
visory service should entirely replace
existing services, Agricultural busi-
ness and political groups all fulfill
special requirements, but converting
agricultural science into agricultural
practice is a task that must rest in
the hands of public educators.

With the cooperative
program definitely oriented in the
sphere of public education, rapid
strides have been taken toward im-
plementing the plan,

extension

The Agricultural Information Ser-
vice for German farmers, established
in November 1946 to coordinate and
release up-to-date information for
agricultural workers and farm leaders
in the US Zone, was expanded on
Jan. 1, 1947 to a bizonal basis. German
staff writers prepare news releases
and special information bulletins on
agricultural topics for simultaneous
release to farm papers, general news-
papers and radio. About 27,000 of
these bulletins are distributed periodi-
cally throughout the US Zone.

Training programs provide addi-
tional numbers of farm-raised educators
have been established in most of the
bizonal states. Bavaria and Wuerttem-

13

berg-Baden both made plans to double
their rural teaching staffs. The latter
turned out its first group of new farm
teachers this spring.

Bavaria also established a special
course for extension workers, Wuert-
temberg-Baden's Hohenheim College,
the oldest agricultural college in
Europe, has added practical farm in-
struction to its curriculum, Many agri-
cultural winter schools have spon-
sored tural leadership programs to
aid farm leaders in developing demo-
cratic agricultural administration at
the village level.

Non-Ferrous Output Up

Preliminary figures for non-ferrous
smelter output show that lead pro-
duction rose from 2,118 metric tons in
April to 2,450 tons in May, zinc from
2,978 tons in April to an estimated
3,109 tons in May, aluminium from
232 tons in April to 386 tons in May.

Copper output dropped from 698
tons in April to 210 tons in May due
to the failure of the Norddeutsche
Affinerie in Hamburg to restart its
electrolysis plant as expected, the
breakdown of another copper refinery
and the closing of a third refinery to
permit a two-week vacation for em-
ployees.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Religion Teachers
Lacking in Hesse

A survey conducted by the Evan-
gelical Church government and the
Catholic dioceses of Hesse revealed
a serious lack of properly trained
teachers of religion in the schools,
As a result, only about 50 percent of
the time allocated for religious
instruction in the Hesse elementary
and secondary schools was used for
this purpose.

The shortage was more serious to
the Evangelical Church than it was
to the Catholic Church, and in many
areas parents were sending their
children to whatever religious classes
were available, rather than have
them receive no religious instruction
at all.

Goods for Germans

As the result of an agreement
reached between US Military Govern-
ment and the Inter-Allied Reparation
Agency (IARA), in Brussels, a quan-
tity of industrial equipment will be
withdrawn from the: list of goods
available for reparations and returned
to the German economy. The equip-
ment, for which no bids were made
by the 19 nations composing the
membership of the IARA, is situated
in 18 plants in the US Zone.

American Music Broadcast

Radio concerts in the US-occupied
area have devoted a substantial por-
tion of the time to American music.
Programs broadcast by RIAS (US-con-
trolled station in Berlin) included
works of the following US composers:
Earnest Bloch, William Schuman, Paul
Creston, Samuel Barber, Walter Piston,
Aaron Copland, Roy Harris, Roger
Sessions and Virgil Thomson.

Krauss Convicted

Werner Krauss, film and stage actor
who played several parts in the Nazis
anti-Semitic picture, “Jud Suess",
was classified a minor offender and
fined 5,000 marks by a denazification
appeal court in Stuttgart. Krauss had
been exonerated in two previous
trials.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Industrial Output at Postwar High

Industrial production in the Bizonal
Area rose by one-fifth in July, in-
creasing from 50 percent of the 1936
base period level to 60 percent, a
Postwar record both in the level
attained and in the magnitude of the
increase. All industrial groups showed
increases, and only two failed to
reach postwar peaks. Larger per-
centage increases were scored in
manufactured goods than in basic raw
materials,

Several influences combined to cause
a real increase in factory output.
While there has been a _ gradual
improvement since the beginning to
the year, the July picture was do-
minated by the currency reform
initiated June 20, which brought about
greater labor efficiency, decreased
absenteeism, and a smoother flow of
raw materials. These factors were
augmented by the simultaneous im-
provement in the food situation, the
increase of imports of vital materials,
and the program of removing control
on production, distribution, and prices.

Two factors contributing to the spurt
in the index of industrial production
do not necessarily represent actual
increases in the rate of production of
goods. The release of stocks of raw
materials and finished and partially
finished goods, which had been
hoarded in anticipation of currency
reform, represented accumulated pro-
duction from a period earlier than
July. Furthermore, July had one more
working day than June, so that there
should have been_a four-percent in-
crease: in total production even if the
rate had not risen.

Whether previously concealed stocks
of raw materials and partially finished
goods will be depleted before the real
production increase can replace them
cannot yet be determined. In predicting
the future trends, more weight should
be given to increases in current pro-
duction of iron, steel, non-ferrous
metals, and basic chemicals than to
the larger jump in output of consumer
goods, — From Military Government
Semimonthly Report No. 96.

Some Jobs Require 10 Years’ Citizenship

Certain civilian positions in the
European Command which require an
objective viewpoint, unquestionable
loyalty and assured impartiality so
vitally important to the US occup-
ation, will require 10 years’ US
citizenship, EUCOM Headquarters has
announced. This police follows the long-
established precedent of the State
Department on such appointments.

Initially, the new qualification
requirements will be applied specif-
ically to intelligence and investigative
positions only, EUCOM has author-
ized subordinate commanders to des-
ignate and place in the same categ-
ory certain other sensitive positions
which permit access to highly
classified material, posses great
authority, or provide an opportunity
to influence major plans and policy.

It has been pointed out that em-
ployees presently occupying such a
position covered by the policy will

14

not be affected for the duration of
their current agreement.

German Production

A work-productivity survey includ-
ing 10 major plants in Bavaria, pro-
vided confirming statistical informa-
tion on the lowered productive capac-
ity of German workers. It was indi-
cated that the on-the-job efficiency
of the average worker was only 60
to 70 percent of normal in 1936 and
that absenteeism had increased by
two to three times.

Book on English History

The publishers of Horizont in Berlin
have been authorized to print a
100,000-copy edition of Dieter Friede’s
“England — The History of Its
Democracy”. This history, which ran
originally in serial form last year in
the US-licensed youth magazine,
Horizont, has been cited as one of
the best works of its kind.

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 18 ---
HE Bizonal Economic Administra-

tion came into formal existence
early this year with the promulgation
of MG Proclamations No.7 and No.8
in the US Zone and corresponding
British MG ordinances in the British
Zone, effective as of Feb. 9, 1948, to
consolidate and clarify the German
functions and operations of the eco-
nomic merger of the two zones.

Proclamation No.7 which establish-
ed the new economic administration,
Proclamation No.8 which set up the
Bizonal High Court, and MG Law
No. 60 which created the Bank of the
German States marked a new phase
of bizonal development. However,
they concerned only economic and
financial matters and did not extend
to functions of a popularly-elected
central government.

The enlarged and coordinated Bi-
zonal Economic Administration on
the German side, and the streamlined
and integrated Bipartite Control Office
and reorganized Joint Export-Import
Agency on the Military Government
side were all geared into the purpose
of strengthening the peaceful pro-
ductivity of western Germany within
the limits of international controls
and restrictions, and of leaving to the
Germans as much responsibility as
possible,

An Economic Council had been
created and charged originally by
US and British enactments in May,
1947, with the responsibility of direct-
ing the permissible economic recon-
struction of the Bizonal Area, subject
to the approval of the Bipartite Board.

During the period of this Bizonal
Organization—from May 29, 1947, to
Feb, 9, 1948—it was difficult to secure

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

the necessary and proper legislation,
and increasingly more difficult to
secure the proper support of the
states in carrying out these laws. The
states complained, procrastinated and
frequently attacked the authority of
the Bizonal Organization.

T became clear that the time had
I come for a change in the structure of
bizonal administration to meet this
crisis. Proclamations No.7 and No.8
came into force on Feb. 9, 1948, to
give an answer to this problem, Thus
was established the Bizonal Economic
Administration, comprised of the
Economic Council, Council of States,
Executive Committee, Bizonal High
Court and Bank of German States.

The Council of States is a body
representing the several state govern-
ments. While Proclamation No.7 does
not prescribe who should represent

these governments and how, except
for requiring two delegates for eath
state, all the states appointed their
ministers president. Recently the
minister president of Wuerttemberg-
Baden withdrew and was replaced by
his deputy.

Within the administration, the
Council of States is to provide the
means by which Economic Council
legislation is coordinated with the
states, so that its later execution in
the states is not hindered. The Council
of States may initiate legislation on
any matter within the competence of
the Economic Council, except for
taxation and the appropriation of
funds. y

The Economic Council must submit
adopted bills to the Council of
States, which then approves, amends

(Continued on Page 18)

Material from the document, “The Evolution of Bizonal Organization,”
compiled and issued by the Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, in
March, was used for this article to explain the functions and operations
of the Bizonal Economic Administration and subdivisions as listed in
the chart reproduced on pages 16 and 17.

Articles published in previous issues of the Information Bulletia con-
cerning the bipartite (Military Government) and bizonal (German)
operations and activities of the economic fusion of the US and British
Zones include:

Bizonal Economic Merger Defined, with text of Byrnes—Bevin agreement, No, 72,
Dec. 16, 1946.

Effect of Economic Merger, No. 75, Jan. 13, 1947.

Bipartite Economic Control Group, No. 76, Jan. 20, 1947.

Bizonal Policy Explained, No. 83, March 10, 1947.

Bizonal Organizations, No. 85, March 24, 1947.

Bizonal Economic Council, with text of Proclamation No. 5, No. 96, June 9, 1947.

British Share in Bizonal Activities, No. 98, June 23, 1947,

Economic Council Told Problems, No. 103, July 28, 1947.
Bizonal Organization, comprehensive review by Stephen L. Freeland, No. 108, Sept. 1,
1947.
Economic Situation in Occupied Germany, Part 3 — The Bizonal Area, No. 122,
Dec. 8, 1947.

Bizonal Unity Strengthened, No. 127, Jan. 27, 1948.

Streamlining Spurs JEIA Progress, No. 129, Feb. 24, 1948.

How JEIA Works, No. 137, June 15, 1948.

15 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
GERMAN BIZONAL ECONOMIC ADMINISTR

(WIRTSCHAF TSVERWALTUNG DES

(HAUPT- AUSSCHUSS) (WIRTSCHAF TS -AUSSCHUSS)

(ERNAEHRUNGS - AUSSCHUSS)

(VERKEHRS - AUSSCHUSS)

———_!
ECONOMIC COUNCIL BIZONAL |
(WIRTSCHAF TSRAT) (OEUT Scag
OR ERICH KOEHLER (CDU, HESSE) PRESIDENT (PRAESICENT) COL0 a
GUSTAV DAHRENDORF (SPD, HAMBURG) VICE-PRESIDENT (VIZE - PRAESIDENT) CHIEF yy
104 MEMBERS, ELECTED BY STATE PARLIAMENTS OR HERBERT
(104 MITGLIEDER, GEWAEHLT DURCH OIE LANDTAGE) DEPUTY CHIEF
PARTY FACTIONS (FRAKTIONEN)* oe
ASSOCIATE
COU/CSU/DP (44) SPD (40) FOP/LDP/DVP (8) KPO (6) ZENTRUM (4) PETER PAUL Fucus
OR ELISABET)
DR FRIEDRICH ERWIN FRANZ FRIEDRICH OR FRITZ OR. Paws van Rue,
HOLZAPFEL (NRW) | SCHOETTLE (WB) | BLUECHER (NRW) | RISCHE (NRW) | STRICKER (NRW) TWO VACANCIES {p,
CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN: CHAIRMAN .
(VORSITZENDER) (VORSITZENDER) | (VORSITZENDER) (VORSITZENDER) (VORSITZENDER) SOLICITOR GENER
Hans
PRINCIPAL STANDING COMMITTEES ( AUSSCHUESSE) DEPUTY SOLICITOR GENERAL (5
OR WERNER
MAIN COMMITTEE ECONOMICS FOOO, AGRICULTURE, AND TRANSPORT ee

ERWIN SCHOETTLE OR ALEXANDER HAFFNER

OR ANDREAS HERMES WILHELM STR, R _
{SPO~ wa) (CDU~ we) (COU — NRW) (SPD- MESSE)
CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN, CHAIRMAN: CHAIRMAN
{VORSITZENDER) (VORSITZENDER) (VORSITZENDER) (VORSITZENDER)
POSTS AND FINANCE LEGAL BUOGET
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, (FINANZ ~ AUSSCHUSS) (REGHTS - AUSSCHUSS) (HAUSHALTS-AUSSCHUSS) EXECuT
(POST ~ AUSSCHUSS) (VERWAL|
PETER HORN FRANZ BLUECHER OR ADOLF ARNOT OTTO WEINKAMM ELECTED BY ECONOMIC cou,
(COU- HESSE) (FOP—NRW) (SPD- HESSE) (CSU-BAV) (GEWAEHLT DURCH WIRTSCHAFTSRA
CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN ——_——_——..
(VORSITZENDER) (VORSITZENDER) (VORSIT ZENDER) (VORSITZENDER)
1 OR.
THE ECONOMIC RECON STRUCTION “eaGuE A RAY Tine, Aye /EREINIGUNG. CHAIRMAN [
MEMI a, NOT SE A ITY FACTION VAV HAT 2 MITGLIE
BE SS Ri Beh

ABBREVIATIONS (asxverzuncen)
POLITICAL PARTIES (POLITISCHE PARTEIEN)
COU = CHRISTLIGH- DEMOKRATISCHE UNI
(GHRISTIAN CEMOGHANG UNCA
Csu = Ca

oP

IQH- SOZIALE UNION
ISTIAN SOCIAL UNION)
© DEUTSONE PARTEL
(GERMAN PARTY)
OVP = DEWOKRATISCHE VOLKSPARTE!
(DEMOCRATIC ETAT Baer)
FDP = FREIE DemoKRati: RTI
(PRE BENGCRETE, PARTE
KPD = KOMMUNISTISCHE PARTE!
(COMMUNISTS PARTY oP ESE, ays
LDP = LIBERAL—DEMOKRATISCHE Py
(LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC ANY)
SPD = SOZIALDEMOKRATISCHE PARTE! DEUTSGHLANDS

(SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF GERMANY)
2 © ZENTRUMSPARTE!
(CENTER PARTY)
STATES (LAENDER)
BAV + BAVARIA (BAYERN)
BR + BREMEN (BREMEN)
HBG = HAMBURG (HAMBURG)

LS «LOWER Saxony

NRW =NORTH RHINE — WESTPH,
SH = SCH_ESWIG-HOLSTEIN
WB * WUERTTEMBERG- BADEN

‘= = COMMAND CHANNEL
wen SFUNCTIONAL CHANNEL,

(NIEDERSACHSEN )
(ALIA (NORORHEIN - WESTFALEN)
(SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN)
(WUERTTEMBERG- BADEN)

(ORDENTLICHER INSTANZENWEG)
(TECHNISCHER INSTANZENWEG)

GERMAN COAL MINES
ADMINISTRATION

(DEUTSCHE KOM_ENBERGBAU-LEITUNG)
ESSEN

a
HEINRICH KOST
CHIEF (LEITER)

-—

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE
(RECHTSAMT )

COUNSEL

OR WALTER STRAUSS

DIRECTORS OF Al
(VERWALTI
—

EUROPE:

OR OTTO ScHNIEW

RECOVERY PROGRAM
(BERATER FUER DEN MARSHALL -PLAN)!
_ $$ PAN

CHIEF (LEITER) OR. LUDWIG ERHARD
OR. HANS SCHLANGE-SCHOENING®
1DINA” FOR DR. EDMUND. FROHNE

HANS SCHUBERTH
NO 5
ALFRED HARTMANN

TO BE ELECTED
(NOCH ZU WAEHLEN)

DEPARTMENTS

| |:

ECONOMICS
(WIRTSCHAFT)

FOOD, AGRICULTURE, AND
‘ORESTRY
WIRT' (AFT
(ERNAEHRUNG FORSTER) So

TRANSPORT
(VERKEHR)

OR. LUDWIG ERHARD
OIRECTOR (DIREKTOR)

OR EDMUND KAUFMAN
TY DIRECTOR
(STELLVERT RETENDER DIREKTOR)

JOR HANS SCHLANGE-SCHOENINGEN

S
(STELLVERTRETENDE DIREKTOREN)

OR EDMUND FROHNE
OIRECTOR (DIREKTOR)

OR FRIEDRICH SCHILLER
DEPUTY DIRECTOR:
(STELLVERTRETENDER DIREKTOR)

DIRECTOR (DIREKTOR)

WILHELM NIKLAS.
OR. HANS PODEYN
GO- DEPUTY DIREC TOR:

ee

Se) CII Co,

TTT TTT tenn ee —-—- STATE GOVERNMENT S_)
1 US ZONE (AMERIKANISCHE ZONE) r He
1 rt
BAVARIA
(BAYERN) BREMEN een WUERTTEMBERG- BADEN HAMBURG
OR HANS EMARD (CSU) WILHELM KAISEN (SPO) CHRISTIAN STOCK (SPD) OR REINHOLO MAIER (DVP) MAX BRAUER (SPO)
MINISTER PRESIDENT PRESIDENT OF SENATE MINISTER PRESIDENT MAYOR
(MINISTER PRAESIDENT) (SENATS-PRAESIDENT) (MINISTER Peer) (MINISTER PRAESIDENT) (OBERBUERGERMEISTER)
CL J I ] J

REPRODUCED FROM MILITARY GOVERNOR'S MONTHLY REPORT NO. 36

--- Page 20 ---
ON OF THE COMBINED ECONOMIC AREA

REINIGTEN WIRTSCHAFTSGEBIETES)

ee
COURT

RGERICHT )

TAAESIOENT)
WEYH
(viZe- PRAESIDENT }
ASCHER
BERGERICHTSRAE TE)
KRAUS

;000R
NTZ
TE LIER ZAGHARIAE

LLEN UNBESETZT)
(GENERAL ANWALT)

yMBUSCH

) VERTRETENDER GENERALANWALT )
INTENGERG

OR HEINRICH KOEHLER
OR. BERNHARD HANS!

‘

COU, DEPUTY  MINISTE!

COUNCIL OF

(LAENDERRAT
R PRESIDENT, WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN) CHAIRMAN (VORSITZENDER)

STATES

NN (SPD, SENATOR, HAMBURG) VICE-CHAIRMAN (STELLVERTRETENDER VORSITZENDER)

‘OR HANS EHARD (GSU)
MINISTER PRESIOENT

PRESIDENT OF SENATI
(ESR EE SBEA TY

CHAIRMANSHIP ALTERNATES EVERY THREE MONTHS
(DER VORSITZ WECHSELT ALLE 3 MONATE)
(6 MEMBERS, APPOINTED BY STATE GOVERNMENTS
(16 MITGLIEDER VON DEN LAENDER—REGIERUNGEN. ERNANNT)
BAVARIA HESSE
(BAYERN) OREMEN pavers (HESSEN)
WILHELM KAISEN (SPO) MAX BRAUER (SPO) CHRISTIAN STOCK (SPO)

MAYOR
{OBERBUERGERMEISTER)

MINISTER PRESIDENT
(MINISTER PRAESIDENT)

(MINISTI PRAESIDENT)

OF HANNS SEIDEL (CSU) GUSTAY MARHSSEN (SPO) | OR. BERNWARO) HANSEN (SPO) | OR WERNER HLPERT, (COU)

MINIS NA’

WIR TSaUPTSMMSTERT (SNA SR) (SENATSR) VENER RS ANCE
LOWER SAXONY NORTH RHINE-WESTPHALIA | . —
(NIEDERSACHSEN) NORORHEIN-WESTFALEN) # SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN WUERTTEMBERG- BADEN

HINRICH KOPF (SPD)
MINSTER PRESIDENT
(MINISTER PRAESIDENT)

MINISTER OF FINANCE
(FINANZMINISTER)

OR, GEORG STRICKROOT (COU)

KARL. ARNOLD (COU)
MINISTER  PRESIL
(MINISTER PRESIDENT)
OR_KARL SPIECKER (Z)

MINISTER WITHOUT PORTFOLIO
(MINISTER OHNE GESCHAEF TSBEREICHY

HERMANN LUEDEMANN (SPO)
INISTER PRESIDENT.
MUSTER RESET

RUDOLF KATZ (SPO)

OR
MINISTER OF JUSTICE
NOSTZMINISTERD

Cert KOEHLER (COU)

INISTER PRESIC

ELT SES SERRE,
DR HEINRICH VEIT (SPOD
MINISTER OF ECONOMICS
(WIRTSCHAF TSMINISTER)

=

SOMMIT TEE
IGBRAT )

MED BY COUNCIL OF STATES
STAETIGT OURCH LAENOERRAT }

STANDING COMMITTEES (AUSSCHUESSE)

ECONOMICS
(WIRTSCHAF TS - AUSSCHUSS)

FOOD, AGRICULTURE, ‘AND
(ERNAEHRUNGS- AUSSCHUSS)

TRANSPORT
(VERKEHRS - AUSSCHUSS)

‘OR. ERICH NOELTING

(STELLVEF

(SPO- NRW)
CHAIRMAN (VORSITZENDER)
OR. HANNS SEIDEL (CSU~ BAV)

TY MAN
APRETENSER VORSITZENDER)

‘AUGUST BLOCK
CHAIRMAN (VORSITZENDER)
ALOIS SCHLOEGEL

isTeciver RETENOER WORST ZENOER)

(OP- NS)

‘OR HARALD KOCH
CHAIRMAN (VORSITZENDER)

{CSU-BAV) (BRUNO DECK va
t
(STELLVERTRET ENDER VORSITZENDER)

(SPO- HESSE)
DIECKMANN SPD- SH)

POSTS AND.
TELE COMMUNICATIONS
(POST = AUSSCHUSS)

FINANCE
(FINANZ - AUSSCHUSS)

LEGAL
(RECHTS- AUSSCHUSS)

LORENZ SEDLMAYR _(CSU- BAV)
CHAIRMAN (VORSITZENDER)
GUSTAV HARMSSEN (SPD-8R)

(STELLVERTRETENSER HroRsiTZe NDER)

‘OR. HEINRICH KOEHLER
CHAIRMAN (VORSIT ZENOER)
OR WALTER DUDEK

(STELLVER PRET ENBER VORSITZENDER)

(cOU-wa)

(SPO - HBG)

‘OR RUDOLF KATZ (SPO~SH)

YOSEF MUELLER
DEPUTY CHAIRMAN,
(STELLVERTRETENGER WORSIT ZENDER)

CHAIRMAN (VORSITZENDER)
(CSU~BAV)

PUENDER
ROIREKTOR)

PERSONNEL OFFICE

.

"ATIVE DEPARTMENTS, (PERSONAL AMT)

WREKTOREM ) OT
ECONOMICS CHIEF (LETTER)
(WIRTSCHAFT ) OR ULRICH LOEWE

* F000, AGRICULTURE, ANO
FORESTRY

} (ERNAEHRUNG,, LANDWIRT SCHAFT
NO FORSTEN)
TRANSPORT
(VERKEHR} .
POSTS AND.
TELEGOMMUNICATIONS
(ERT UNO

INMELDE WE SEN)

FINANCE
(FINANZ )

MANPOWER
(ARBEIT)

(sTeLivERTRETEROER LEMTER)

STATISTICAL OFFICE
(STATISTISCHES AMT)

OR GERHARD FUERST
CHIEF (LEITER)

OFFICE FOR CURRENCY PROBLEMS
(BUERO FUER WAEHRUNGSFRAGEN)
‘BAD HOMBURG

RUDOLF HARMENING
CHIEF (LEITER)

(VERWALTUNGEN)

I

]

POSTS AND.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
(POST UND FERNMELDEWESEN)

FINANCE
(FINANZ)

MANPOWER
(ARBEIT)

MANS SCHUBERTH
OIRECTOR (DIREKTOR)

FEROINAND ZAUBITZER

OIRECTOR (DIREKTOR)

ALFRED HARTMANN

IN PROGESS OF FORMATION

OR WALTER KRIEGE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR (IM AUFBAU)
s DEPUTY _DIRECT(
(STELLVERTRETENUER OIREKTOR) (STELLVERTRETENOER  DIREKTOR)
T T T

weet ew He ee LL ee ee ee

BANK OF THE GERMAN STATES
(BANK DEUTSCHER LAENDER)
FRANKFURT AM MAIN

DEPUTY
(STELLVERTRE:

KARL BERNARD

CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
(VORSITZENDER ‘DES ZENTRAL BANKRATE S)
WILHELM VOCKE

PRESIDENT, BOARD OF MANAGERS
(PRAESIOENT DES DIREKTORIUMS)

WILHELM KOENNEKER

OF THE PRESIDENT
TENDER DES PRAESIDENTEN)

'
|
'
A
t

y

FRENCH ZONE
(FRANZOESISCHE ZONE}

I

RHINELAND ~ PALATINATE
(RHEINL AND ~ PFALZ)

PETER ALTMEIER (COU)

MINISTER PRESIDENT
(MINISTER PRAESIDENT)

SOUTH BADEN
({SUED-BADEN)

(HLNOGANVE BAN) AINO ADNIOg

LEO WOHLEB (COU)

MINISTER PRESIDENT
(MINISTER PRAESIDENT )

WUERTTEMBERG-HOHE NZOLLERN

LORENZ BOCK (COU)
STATE PRESIDENT
( STAATS - PRAESIDENT)

PILL AENDER-REGIERUNGEN)
ee ee ae a ee ae ae ee -_—
| BRITISH ZONE (BRITISCHE ZONED 7” 7
1
LOWER SAXONY NORTH Ri i
HINE - WESTPHALIA,
(NIEDERSACHSEN) (NORORHEIN- WESTFALEN) SCHLESWIG"HOLSTEIN J Hn
beara (SP) KARL ARNOLD (COU) HERMANN LUEDEMANN, (SPO) {
IDENT MINISTER PRESIDENT MINISTER PRESIDENT
(MINISTER PRAESIOENT) (MINISTER Prag SOENT) (MINISTER PRAESIDENT) I
'

J

1

STATE CENTRAL BANKS
(LANDES ZENTRAL BANKEN)

--- Page 21 ---
(Continued from Page 15)
The German Bizonal
Economic Administration

or vetoes them. However, the Eco-
nomic Council can reject amendments
by a simple majority and a veto by
an absolute majority.

The Council of States must confirm
the chairman of the Executive Com-
mittee, who is elected by the Eco-
nomic Council. The Council of States
is also free to participate in all stages
of legislation, and to inform itself on
matters of administration, by calling
on the chairman and members of the
Executive Committee for oral or
written reports.

The Executive Committee, although
continuing a name already used for
an organ of the previous bizonal
administration, is an entirely new
body. It consists of the directors of
the functional departments which per-
form the actual administration of
bizonal affairs. These are finance,
transport, communications, economics,
food and agriculture, and recently
added, manpower.

These directors work under a chair-
man without departmental respons-
ibility, who directs and coordinates
their activities. Responsible to him,
but not members of the Executive
Committee, are the heads of the
following additional agencies: Per-
sonnel Office, Statistical Office, Office
of Legislative Counsel, and sub-
sequently added, Office for Currency
Problems and Coordinator for Euro-
pean Recovery Program.

HE chairman and the members of

the Executive Committee are
individually responsible to the Eco-
nomic Council and the Council of
States. The members can be removed
from office by a vote of no confidence
of the Economic Council—the chair-
man only if the Council of States
concurs in such a vote. In both cases,
however, the approval of the Bipartite
Board is necessary.

Under this relationship the Eco-
nomic Council would be expected
to be the main factor in the
bizonal setup. To ease the burden
of committee work which was too
heavy for the 52 members of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

previous Council, and also to give
the people a greater degree of re-
presentation, the size or the Economic
Council was increased to 104. By
election, each state legislature doubled
its delegation both in number and in
party composition. Each state has at
least two representatives.

The number of representatives each

state has in the Council is shown
helow:

Bavaria 24

Bremen 2

Hamburg 4

Hesse 10

Lower Saxony 16

North Rhine-Westphalia 32
Schleswig-Holstein 6
Wuerttemberg-Baden 10

The Economic Council retains all
the powers it had under the pro-
clamation of May 29, 1947, except for
those functions now vested in the
Bank of the German States. Revenues
derived from customs, excise, taxes,
postal services, railroads, transporta-
tion tax, and from public corporations
subject to its control, are its exclusive
sources of income.

If necessary, it can also fix and
claim a percentage of the sums
derived from income, wage and cor-
poration taxes, now collected by the
states. Finally, the Bizonal Economic
Administration can borrow on the

security of these revenues. Financial
legislation, like all other legislation
the Council enacts, is subject to
Bipartite Board approval.

N order to facilitate uniformity of
I enforcement, application and inter-
pretation, the Bizonal High Court for
the combined economic area was
established by Proclamation No. 8. Its
seat is at Cologne.

The High Court consists of 10 mem-
bers, including the chief justice, a
deputy chief justice, and eight asso-
ciate justices. The Bipartite Board
appoints all the justices and a solici-
tor general from a list submitted
jointly by the Economic Council and
the Council of States.

The High Court has both original
and appellate jurisdiction, It can hear
and decide suits between the Bizonal
Economic Administration and a state,
or between two or more states, which
involve the application or inter-
pretation of bizonal legislation.

It can also hear and decide suits in
which the Bizonal Economic Admi-
nistration contends that state legis-
lation or regulations are inconsistent
with bizonal legislation, or that they
exceed the competency of the state
because of the powers which Pro-

(Continued on Page 28)

Part of a crowd estimated at several

thousands which gathered in Wies-

baden's Bluecher Platz to hear Hessian trade union league officials
criticize the Bizonal Economic Administration for failing to halt the

tise of living costs.

18

(PIO OMGH)

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 22 ---
OQuadripartite Adtirity

HE POTSDAM AGREEMENT stated

briefly that German education
should “be so controlled as to make
possible the successful development of
democratic ideals.” However, up to
June, 1947, Allied Control Council
agreements were limited to meeting
these minimum demands of education-
al rehabilitation:

Steps were taken to fill teaching
posts with democratic elements
through short-term teacher-training
courses; agreement was reached to
reorganize German institutions of
higher learning so as to meet the
needs of all four zones; agreement
was also reached on such peripheral
items as reopening certain types of
museums, permitting religious instruc-
tion in the schools in conformity with
local tradition, and disseminating
knowledge of the Nuremberg trials
to schools and higher institutions.

The first quadripartite agreement
on the aims for the reeducation of
the German people was published
June 25, 1947. The agreement, the
result of a US proposal, was embodied
in ACA Directive No. 54, entitled
“Basic Principles for the Democrati-
zation of Education in Germany.” The
10 principles of this directive are:

1. There should be equal education-
al opportunity for all.

ie Tuition, textbooks and other
necessary scholastic material should
be provided free of charge in all
educational institutions which are
attended by pupils of compulsory
school age and which are fully sup-
Ported by public funds; in addition,
maintenance grants should be made
to those who need aid. In all other
educational institutions, including uni-
versities, tuition, textbooks and neces-

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

On Ea

ucation in

Germany”

sary material should be provided free
of charge together with maintenance
grants for those in need of assistance.

3. Compulsory fulltime school attend-

ance should be required for all be-
tween the ages of six and at least
fifteen, and thereafter, for those pupils
not enrolled in fulltime educational
institutions, at least parttime compul-
sory attendance up to the completed
age of eighteen years.

4. Schools for the compulsory
periods should form a comprehensive

This summary of the actions
taken by the Four-Power govern-
ing body of Germany to devel-
op and guide education in Ger-
many is from the _ recently
issued cumulative review of
education and cultural relations
as an annex to the Military Gov-
ernor’'s Monthly Report No. 34.

educational system. The terms “ele-
mentary education” and “secondary
education” should mean two consec-
utive levels of instruction, not two
types or qualities of instruction which
overlap.

5. All schools should lay emphasis
upon education for civic responsibility
and a democratic way of life, by
means of the content of the curriculum,
textbooks and materials of instruction,
and by the organization of the school
itself.

6. School curricula should aim to
promote understanding of and respect
for other nations and to this end
attention should be given to the study
of modern languages without preju-
dice to any.

19

7. Educational and vocational gui-
dance should be provided for all pupils
and students.

8. Health supervision and health
education should be provided for all
pupils and students. Instruction will
also be given in hygiene,

9. All teacher education should take
place in a university or in a peda-
gogical institution of university rank.

10. Full provision should be made
for effective participation of the people
in the reform and organization as well
as in the administration of the edu-
cational system,

In order to amplify these basic
principles continued discussions were
held at quadripartite level. On Oct.
28 quadripartite agreement on the
aims of adult education was reached
and was published as ACA Directive
No. 56, “Basic Principles for Adult
Education in Germany.”

EANWHILE the work incident to

the execution of ACA Directive
No. 4, “Confiscation of Literature of a
Nazi and Militarist Nature”, of May
13, 1946, was completed. After the
Library of Congress Mission left Ger-
many June 30, 1947, an MG board
was appointed to complete the work.
The master file of the central collection
in Berlin was transferred to Military
Government, and, after institutions in
the United States and elsewhere were
provided with requested books, 80,000
duplicates in the Berlin collection were
turned over to US Military Intelli-
gence.

An amendment to Directive No. 4,
dated Sept. 13, 1946, authorized the
setting up of repositories for research
and study by responsible German
scholars, and on Sept. 16, 1946, OMG

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Hesse authorized the City and State
Library at Frankfurt to be a reposi-
tory of such literature.

Bavaria, Hesse, Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Bremen agreed on the
foundation of an Institute for Studying
Nazi Policy. The seat of the institute
was designated to be in Munich, and
its organization as follows: a board to
which the four state governments
would each delegate two represent-
atives, a scientific council of 12 Ger-
man professors of history and publish-
ers, and two committees, one for
scientific purposes, one for publication
purposes. The tasks of the institute
were: collection of the necessary
documents; interviewing contempora-
ries connected with Nazi policy, publi-
cation of the documents, and the writ-
ing of histories on special problems.*

THER EDUCATIONAL topics were
considered on quadripartite level,
but no agreement had been reach-
ed up to the time of the suspen-
sion of quadripartite deliberations last
March. Partial agreement was reached
on the subjects of teacher training and
of the admission of students to institu-
tions of higher learning. On the sub-
ject of the repeal of Nazi legislation for
the centralization of education, agree-
ment was reached in the Allied Edu-
cation Committee and the document
was forwarded to the Legal Committee
for revision.

The Allied Education Committee
was requested in December, 1947, to
determine whether inspection teams
should be set up to check on the imple-
mentation of ACA Directives No. 23,
“Limitation and Demilitarization of
Third Reich and Demilitarization of
Sport in Germany” and No. 32, “Dis-
ciplinary Measures Against Managing
and Administrative Staffs of Educa-
tional Institutions, Teaching Staff, and
Students Guilty of Militaristic, Nazi
or Anti-Democratic Propaganda.” It
was agreed by the Allied Education
Committee, on Jan. 24, 1948, that
inspection teams should be set up to
check on the implementation of the
two directives, and that the imple-
mentation of Control Council Order

* See Weekly Information Bulletin No. 103
“Documentation of Third Reich."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

No. 4 should also be inspected by
the teams.

The Allied Control Council estab-
lished near the end of 1947 a working
party consisting of representatives of
the four nations to study the curric-
ulum of the schools. The plan of
action consisted of: (1) exchange of
information regarding the status of
present school and curriculum organi-
zation, (2) the setting up of a proposed
curriculum and (3) the preparation of
outlines of courses. The first topic,
however, was the only one on which
any progress was made during the
three meetings held by the working
party, before the suspension of quad-
tripartite activity.

Lighter Bread

German dark bread won't be quite
so dark in the near future, Bipartite
Food and Agriculture officials an-
nounced, adding that it will also be a
little easier on the palate.

Improvement in the quality of the
bizonal loaf followed approval by the
Bipartite Food and Agriculture Group
of the German Food Department's
recommendation that the extraction
rate of breadgrains from which bizonal
flour is milled be reduced from
99 percent to 88 percent for wheat
and 93 percent for rye.

The lowered extraction rate has
been made possible, in spite of the
increase in the bizonal bread ration,
by the diversion of 220,000 tons of
fodder grains, out of 500,000 tons
allocated to the Bizone, for the pro-
duction of flour.

Export Orders Received

The Flensburg sample exhibition,
which was open from May 14 to
June 30, received applications tor
export of goods from the Bizonal
Area totaling $4,768,189. In addition,
Soviet Zone firms had orders of
$2,818,499. Orders to French Zone
firms amounted to $250,574.

The services of 100 internees from
the Ludwigsburg Internment Camp
were approved by Military Govern-
ment to aid in rescue and clean-up
work after the Ludwigshafen chemical
plant disaster. Other internees in the
camp volunteered as blood donors.

20

Unemployment Rises
Slightly in Zone

Unemployment in the US Zone in-
creased from 2.54 percent to 3.73 per-
cent during July, the first full month
after currency. reform, according to
Manpower Division, OMGUS.

The number of unemployed rose
from 239,190 to 342,565 which, officials
said, was relatively small when
viewed against the US Zone's total
labor force, estimated at 7,457,372.

The weekly net increase of about
25,000 in unemployment in the US
Zone between June 26 and July 17
slackened somewhat during the last
half of July. When currency reform
went into effect unemployment, in
the opinion of the German labor
authorities, had practically reached
rock bottom and was close to the
lowest point since the beginning of
the occupation.

“Alarmist progrostications of mass
unemployment in the US Zone in the
wake of currency reform have thus
far failled to materialize," Leo R.
Werts, director of the Manpower
Division, said: ‘Definite conclusions
are still premature, but the increase
in unemployment, although abnormal,
is relatively minor when viewed
against the total employment situ-
ation.”

The Manpower Division reported
there has been a decrease in job
openings since the beginning of cur-
rency reform. On July 21 job vacan-
cies stood at 70,420, as against 341,610
on May 31. Since July 21, however,
the sharp decline in job openings has
halted and for the remainder of the
month this figure has been fluctuating
near 70,000.

Research in Acoustics Begun

The Physics Institute of Goettingen
has undertaken research in archi-
tectual accoustics for the Privy
Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research in London. Payment for
this work will go into the JEIA fund
for procurement and purchase abroad
of industrial raw materials for the
German economy.

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 24 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

o- GERMAN PRES

Protests Raised Against High Prices

The Weser-Kurier (Bremen) appeal-
ed to labor unions and political
parties in Bremen to participate ener-
getically in price control and an-
nounced the start of a regular column
publishing the prices of unrationed
foodstuffs and other goods on the
markets, It continued:

“There is great danger that if noth-
ing is done, rising prices will under-
mine the existence minimum of a
large strata of the population. In-
dignation of the buying public, espe-
cially about the rise in fruit and veget-
able prices, has already led to many
spontaneous actions of self-help.

“In Lehe as well as in Oldenburg
(Lower Saxony) dealers who demanded
50 pfennigs (15 cents) for an egg were
beaten up and their wares destroyed.
In Erlangen (Bavaria) housewives
overturned fruit baskets and bom-
barded dealers with apples and to-
matoes. Last Saturday (July 31) 40,000
persons in Kulmbach (Bavaria) dem-
onstrated against usurious practices.

“However, all such measures harbor
the germ of illegality. They pass
by the real problem and do not
produce the desired results, namely,
assured supplies at fair prices ....
The Bizonal Economic Administration
has been flagrantly ineffective in this
as in other fields.”

The Frankenpost (Hof) criticized
Agricultural Minister Schloeg] for ad-
vising farmers to keep up food prices
by holding back their products:

“We see sad faces peering into
show windows at the unattainable.
We hear of protest actions by an
excited population ... This is the
moment that a Bavarian minister
chooses to warn against sales at
reasonable prices ... The Lord has for
Once been good to us, but Dr. Schoegl
hastens to correct him.”

Heinrich Kierzek commented on the
topic of rising prices in the Fuldaer
Volkszeitung: “One could understand
it if certain goods that require foreign
imports for their production would

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

become more expensive. Unfortun-
ately, however, the prices of numerous
purely domestic articles are rising
with equal zest.

“Those who argue that this is the
free play of forces in a free economy
overlook that workers and employes
also belong to the free economy, and
that the strike is also a part of it....
We find it astonishing that labor has
looked on so meekly up to now ....
Today the workers protest in all
Hessian cities simultaneously. May
their warning be heard! May the in-
sight grow that the free economy is
not a franchise for freebooters.”

The Kasseler Zeitung (Kassel) ad-
vocated a buyers’ strike: “Prices have
reached a point ... which make it im-
possible for the normal wage-earner
to obtain the necessities of life... An
organized and well-disciplined buyers’
strike would, in our opinion, be ...
successful ... This method has had
excellent results abroad.”

The Fraenkische Presse (Bayreuth)
believed that the remedy for high
prices lay in measures against price-
fixing:

“The consumers’ need for goods, of
which they have long been deprived,
is so great that a buyers’ strike would
have little success .... The solution
lies in the regulation of monopoly
prices, that is prices fixed by group
agreements ... not only written and
official agreements, but those fixed by

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board fo the Informa-
tion Control Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
inform the readers among the
occupational forces of what the
Germans are writing and think-
ing, and not necessarily to give
any concurrence to their views
and opinions.

21

silent understandings .... Nor should
the manufacturers of trade-marked
goods be permitted to fix retail prices,
which is an old tradition ...

“Retailers who wish to undercut
prices should be protected by law...
The establishment of competing firms
in the same line should be encourag-
ed. This would also require the co-
operation of the banks ... Such a pro-
gram would be the necessary cor-
rective to the free price policy an-
nounced several weeks ago, and just
as progressive.”

Moscow Negotations

The Niederbayerische Nachrichten
(Straubing) took a pessimistic view in
early August of the Kremlin talks and
urged the Western Powers to stand
firm:

“An agreement can only be reached
once the Soviets have realized that
in the event of war they would get
the worst of it .... There is no evi-
dence that they have done so. They
know very well that these talks once
again give them the initiative .... As
matters stand... the Western Powers
can only be successful in their policy
if they firmly maintain the position
that they have taken.”

The Passauer Neue Presse said the
Moscow talks deal with Europe's fu-
ture, rather than the question of
peace or war, because it has become
evident that none of the great powers
at present seeks hostilities:

“This fact is most heartening for us
Germans too ... We believe that the
Moscow talks and the coming four-
power negotiations will lead soonest
to permanent peace if both the East
and West give up the idea of in-
corporating Germany into either
sphere of interest ....

(Editor's Note: One of the major
aims of the US occupation policy is
to give all of Germany the opportunity
to decide for itself what form of de-
mocratic government it shall have.)

“The world now knows that a large
part of the difficulties stems from the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
fact that the western occupation
powers did not know what they want-
ed in Germany .... Indecision in the
West was faced by definite de-
cisiveness in the East .... This
brought us to the verge of war. The
war won't take place, but the crisis
isn't over yet."

Bureau for Radio

The Neue Wuerttembergische Zei-
tung (Goeppingen) feared that a
bureau for radio, as ordered by the
Bipartite Control Office, will lead to
news censorship. It said:

“The press policies of US Military
Government ... have given us the
impression that it was one of the
fundamental principles of US occupa-
tion policy to safeguard the freedom
of the news services of German press
and radio. Therefore the news that
the Bipartite Control Office has asked
the Economic Council to create a
bureau for radio comes with something
of a shock. This office is to control all
radio transmitting apparatus ... not
excepting the broadcasting facilities
of the news agencies. DENA possesses
its own radio station .... The German
press can only maintain its independ-
ence if its news sources remain free
from any form of government control.”

Radio Waves

The Frankfurter Neue Presse said
that, although the governments of
three states in the American Zone
recently passed radio laws, it would
be vain to comment, because “mean-
while” an event has taken place that
makes any such discussion meaning-
less." It continued:

“A international radio conference in
Copenhagen, including observers of
US and British Military Governments,
decided to grant only one medium
wave length to each zone .... If this
is carried out, it will mean a dis-
mantling of a considerable part of
the German radio....

“It was to be expected that one
_ would ask of Germany a hard tribute
in the field of wave length distribu-
tion. The memory, to us shameful and
painful, of the dictatorship of Goebbels
over the air, may have caused us to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

be deprived of the 12 medium wave
lengths conceded to us before 1933.

“The limit of one wave a zone and
the simultaneous limitation of the per-
formance energy of each station to
a maximum of 70 kilowatts would,
however, be a hard blow for all the
forces in Germany which for three
years have been trying to create a
new human picture.”

Press Bureaus

The Fraenkische Landeszeitung (Ans-
bach) declared that the press bureaus
established by German officialdom
serve to suppress news rather than to
disseminate it. It added:

“The press endeavors to furnish the
public with information on all sub-

“CONTROL”
ALREADY PASSE
The Fraenkische Nachrichten
(Tauberbischofsheim) said the

change in name from Information
Control Division to Information
Services Division was long
overdue:

“He who knows this institu-
tion ... realizes that the old
name has for a long while been
inappropriate The word
‘control’ was often interpreted as
‘censorship,’ especially in press
matters .... What a fatal error!
There is no paper in the American
Zone subject to pre-censorship.
So-called ‘control’ has always
meant ‘help’ and ‘service’ to us.
ISD hasn't arbitrarily chosen the
new name, but has long since
earned the right to it.”

jects. That is its function and it tries
to fulfill it with, without, or against
the authorities. Of course, if the news-
papers are forced to dig up news in
the dark, mistakes occur, which are
just as unpleasant for a responsible
press as for officials...

“But most press bureaus block the
news rather than help to inform the
public. They should be called control
bureaus rather than press bureaus...
The only solution is mutual trust, and
conferences on what is ripe for
publication and what is not.”

22

School Reform Debated

The Suedost Kurier (Bad Reichen.
hall) said that the school reform order
by Murray D. Van Wagoner, Director
of OMG Bavaria, has caused “the
deepest rift between the Bavarian goy-
ernment and US Military Govern.
ment that has been observed since
1945." In governmental circles it is
said that Dr. Hans Ehard, the minister
president, had suffered a “fit of rage’
and unexpectedly left for Switzerland,
while the deputy minister president
was still absent.

The same copy of the paper carried
two editorials, taking opposite views
by its two licensees on the issue.

Josef Felder (SPD) vigorously ap-
proved of Mr. van Wagoner's action,
saying: “This MG order is hailed
with enthusiasm by every democrat
and progressive teacher... It will
have an honorable niche next to the
decision which led to a free press...

“However, we also have reason to
mourn (that such an order was
necessary, but) to call it an offense
against democracy certainly goes too
far. This must be emphasized at the
tisk of being considered an ‘Ami
slave.’ (German slang for American.)
The Americans can be reproached
for a lack of psychology in handling
a variety of things, but here they
are on the right track. They are
seeing to it that they won't have to
cross the ocean so quickly again.”

Heinrich Haug (CSU) disagreed:

“That such an idealistic measure
should be inaugurated by military
command is painful to every de-
mocrat ... Culture cannot be com-
manded.”

Editor-in-chief Edmund Goldschagg
(SPD) said in the Sueddeutsche Zei-
tung (Munich) that Military Govern-
ment had to interfere in the repeatedly
postponed Bavarian school reform
“with a rough hand” because “the
education minister and legislature
were lacking in good will.”

“It is characteristic for Germany,
and especially for Bavaria that the
leading classes are so opposed to
school reform... It is perfectly
clear that if Germany were not oc-
cupied, but had been able to do as
it pleased politically after the col-

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 26 ---
lapse, we would by now again be
having a military budget much higher
than the costs of this school reform.
‘Where there's a will, there’s a way.’
But it is just the will that is lacking,
particularly where the Ministry of
Culture and its minister are con-
cerned.”

The Muenchner Merkur (Munich),
both licensees of which are CSU,
said: “The first impression one gets
of this order is that Military Govern-
ment was forced to command a social
measure after the Bavarian govern-
ment and legislature failed completely.
However, sober examination reveals
that this is a gift for the poor as
well as for the rich (the children of
well-to-do and penniless parents are
equally freed from paying tuition).
Even if the costs eventually are
shifted to the general public, it still
will mean an advantage to the
economically stronger.”

Anti-Semitism

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung criticized
the Central Office of Justice for refus-
ing to incorporate in the Penal Code
a clause punishing anti-Semitism, and
called it proof of the paralysis of the
German sense of justice:

“Desecration of graves is a crime
which is regarded with horror by all
civilized nations... Not so with us,
as is proven by the equanimity with
which public opinion regards the wave
of vandalism which has broken over
Jewish cemeteries in all zones in Ger-
many in recent months... A national
culture cannot be judged merely by
the number of people who visit thea-
ters and concerts... Its surest mani-
festation is shown by the degree in
which moral concepts are safeguarded
and the degree of reaction to the vio-
lation of such concepts ... Unless we
develop tolerance as a nation, all

efforts toward democracy will remain
ineffective."

Children Gain Weight

Some 359000 Wuerttemberg-Baden
School children are receiving a 350-
calorie meal five times a week under
the special child feeding program. An
upward trend in the weight of chil-
dren occurred during the critical
spring months.
SEPTEMBER 7 194

Because of a critical paper shortage in Germany, old marks turned in
during currency reform last June are being pulped instead of burned.
Here, Lt. Col, Edward J. Drinkert, acting deputy director of OMG,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, helps a bank employe empty a sack of old marks

into a grinding tub at
Gemrigheim.

the Taithelhuper

Paper company plant,
(PIO OMGWB)

Chaplains Study Religious Phase of Army

Representatives “of the Generai
Commission on Army and Navy
Chaplains toured the European Com-
mand to study the moral and religious
ministrations of the US Army.

The group included Dr. Frederick
C. Reynolds, district superintendent of
the Methodist Church for the Wash-
ington, D. C., area; Dr. Ernest A. Lack,
pastor of the Augustana Lutheran
Church of Des Moines, Iowa; and the
Very Rev. Oliver J. Hart, Episcopal
bishop of Pennsylvania.

Rabbi David De Sola Pool of New
York, a representative of the Jewish
Welfare Board, arrived in EUCOM to

confer with chaplains on_ religious

23

and welfare needs of displaced per-
sons and Jewish personnel of the
Department of the Army.

Army Ration Preferred

Following a two-week experimental
ration test with a WAC detachment
in Heidelberg, a report by the
EUCOM Quartermaster Division
showed that 95 percent of those
tested preferred the normal Army
troop ration—provided they can
exercise a choice of food items—
and about 60 percent were definitely
opposed to any special diet for
members of the Women’s Army
Corps in the European Command.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
MG Personnel Changes Announced |

Mr. Harvey M. Coverley resumed
his duties as acting director of OMG
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, having recover-
ed from a recent illness. Lt. Col, Ed-
ward J. Drinkert is serving as acting
deputy director and Mr. David S.
Anderson as executive officer.

* * *

Lt. Col. Glen W. Campbell has been
appointed chief of the Army Branch
of the Armed Forces Division,
OMGUS, succeeding Col, Thomas B.
Whitted, who has returned to the
United States to become professor of
military science and tactics at Ala-
bama State Teachers College.

* * *

Benjamin F, Dickson has been
appointed acting chief of the Trans-
port Group, Office of the Economics
Adviser, OMGUS, succeeding Col.
Hans W. Holmer, who has returned
to the United States for duty with
the Office of the Chief of Engineers,
Washington, D. C. Mr. Dickson had
been Chief of the Transport Group's
Rail Branch,

* * *

Mr. Ellsworth C, Wolfsperger has
been appointed chief of the Bipartite
Civil Service Group, BICO. For the
past year and a half, he has been
chief of the OMGUS Civil Service
and Administrative Courts Branch,
and US member of both the Bipartite
and Tripartite Vetting Parties.

apeacgealt Lig

Mr. G.W.J. Cole (UK) has been
appointed chief of the newly estab-
lished Bipartite Manpower Group
BICO, with Mr, S. G. Wynn (US) as
deputy chief.

* * *

Mr. George E. Ward has been ap-
pointed chief of the Textiles Section
of the Export Branch, JEIA, succeed-
ing Mr. Howard Veit who returned
to the United States for reasons of
health, Mr. Ward joined JEIA last
spring as export sales manager for
textiles.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Two new deputy branch chiefs
have been added to the staff of the
Food, Agriculture and Forestry Di-
vision of OMG Bavaria. Mr, Buford
J. Miller is the new deputy chief of
the Field Inspection Branch. Mr. Al-
fred N, Johnson is the new deputy
chief of the Food Processing and
Distribution Branch.

* * *

Col. John Hart Allen has been
assigned to the Inspection Office in
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, as a tem-
porary replacement for Lt. Col. Jos-
eph H. Rousseau, Jr., who is serving
with Count Folke Bernadotte, UN
mediator in Palestine, Colonel Allen
had been chief of Restitutions Branch,
OMGUS.

* * *

Mr. Ernest F, Paquette, who has
completed two years’ service as
livestock and marketing specialist
with US Military Government in
Austria and Germany, is returning to
the United States in time for the
opening of the fall term at Cornell
University where he is enrolled as a
veterinary medical student. He had
been on the Bipartite Food and Agri-
culture staff in Frankfurt since June,
1947.

* * *

Mr. Michael Valenti, formerly an
assistant editor on WEEKEND maga-
zine, has been appointed deputy
public information officer for OMG
Wuerttemberg-Baden.

* * *

Brig. Gen, Edward E. MacMorland
was named chief of ordnance,
EUCOM, succeeding Col. C. Wingate
Reed.

* * *

Mr, Lauren S. Buel, Superintendent
of US schools in Munich, has been
appointed assistant director of edu-
cation in the Personnel and Admin-
istration Branch of the EUCOM De-
pendents’ Schools Division in Karls-
tuhe. Mr. Buel filled the vacancy left
by the death of George W. Orford.

24

Dr. Don D. Humphrey, deputy ecé¢
nomics adviser, OMGUS, left Aug.
for the United States to resume teachin
and research duties at Duke Unive;
ity, Durham, N. C. Since mid-1945
had been with OMGUS Economic:
Division, first as economic adviser
the Trade and Commerce Branch,
Dec. 1, 1946, he was appoint
deputy director for negotiations and
became deputy economics adviser last

March, {Photo by Byers}

Recent Visitors

Mr. Oswald B. Lord of New York
City, chairman of the US committee
for the United Nations’ International:
Children’s Emergency Fund, conferr
with OMGUS officials in Berlin
inspected WAC installation faciliti
during a tour of various Europea
countries.

* * *

Reps. Harold D, Cooley and Grahai
A. Barden, both of North Carolin
toured the US Occupied Areas
Germany on a study of occupation
activities, particularly the farm and_
crop situation, and the air-lift ope :
ations to Berlin,

* * *

Mr. Gustav Rasmussen, Danis
foreign minister, visited the US Mili-
tary Governor and other MG offici
during his recent visit to Berlin. He
was accompanied to OMGUS head
quarters by Maj.’Gen. E. A. M. Bieringy
head of the Danish Military Missa
in Berlin.

* * *

Dr. John W. Taylor has arrived i
Berlin as an expert consultant to the |

SEPTEMBER 7 1948 —

--- Page 28 ---
il
Rear Admiral John Wilkes arrives at
Tempelhof Airfield, Berlin, to take up
his new duties as commander of US
Naval Forces in Germany and Naval
Adviser, OMGUS. He succeeded Rear
Admiral R. E. Schuirmann.

(Army Signal Corps)
Education and Cultural Relations
Division, OMGUS. Dr. Taylor was chief
of the Education and Religious Affairs
Branch, Internal Affairs and Communi-
cations Division, OMGUS, until April,
1947 when he returned to the United
States to become president of Louis-
ville University.

* * *

The Rev. Edward V. Cardinal, head
of the Sheil School of Social Study in
Chicago, Ill, has arrived in Berlin to
confer with Dr. Alonzo G, Grace,
director of the Education and Cultural
Relations Division, Father Cardinal
will study problems connected with
Catholic seminaries and related social
problems in the US Zone as an expert
consultant to the Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division.

* * *

Mr. John J. McCarthy, corporate
Personnel director for Gimbel Brothers
and Saks Fifth Avenue Stores in New
York City, has arrived in Berlin as a
Consultant to the Manpower Division,
OMGUS. He is to tour the US Zone of
Germany to observe conditions and
Consult with German government,
Management and worker organizations
Tegarding training programs.

* * *

Dr. William Dewe Thermolen, US
Department of Agriculture poultry
Specialist, made a five-day tour of the
Bizonal Area to study commercial
Poultry production facilities.

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

British General Wins US Award

Maj.
administrative

Gen. Douglas Stuart, British
commandant, CCG,
Frankfurt, was decorated on Aug. 16
with the US Legion of Merit, Degree
of Commander, by General Lucius D.
Clay.

The citation, which was signed by
President Truman, stated that General
Stuart, as wartime commander of the
303rd Lines of Communication Com-
mand, Southeast Asia Command, per-
formed exceptionally meritorious ser-
vices which greatly expedited the
movement of supplies.

* * *

Mr. Louis G. Kelly, chief of the
Displaced Persons Branch, Civil Admin-
istration Division, OMGUS, and Dr.
Erwin W. Bard, chief of the Legis-
lation Branch, CAD, were decorated
by the French government for services
rendered during the last war.

Mr. Kelly, a former colonel in the
US Army, served as military governor
of the Saar from March to July, 1945.

He was awarded the Croix de Che-
valier de la Legion d'Honneur and
the Croix de Guerre with Bronze Star
for his work in this post. Mr. Kelly
also holds the American Bronze Star
and Legion of Merit.

Dr. Bard served as an Army major
and took part in the French campaign
as a civil affairs officer attached to
Headquarters, Third US Army. He
was decorated with the Croix de
Guerre with Palm. Dr. Bard also holds
the American Bronze Star decoration.

* * *

Mr. W. Harris Burland, controller
of the North German Iron and Steel
Control CCG (BE), was invested with
the O.B.E, (Military Division) Aug. 6
by Mr. Frank Butler, His Majesty's

Consul General at Duesseldorf. The
award was made for gallant and
distinguished services in the field

during Mr. Harris Burland’s World
War II service in the Balkan states
and eastern Europe.

Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Joint Export Import Agency in
Frankiurt shows (left to right) Mr. William John Logan, director-general
of JEIA and chairman of the board; Mr. J. Flint Cahan, deputy director-
general and vice-chairman; Sir Cecil Weir, economics adviser, CCG (BE);
Sir Eric Coates, financial adviser, CCG (BE); (right foreground) Mr.
Lawrence Wilkinson, economics adviser, OMGUS; Mr. Jack Bennett,

finance adviser, OMGUS.

25

(Photo by Byers, JEIA)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
(Continued from Page 2)
Occupational Activities

to those in force since the summer of
1946 between the British and US Zones,
provide that Germans may now travel
freely between the three zones without
a travel pass.

The Military Governors agreed to
extend to Oct. 15 the time limit in
which the ministers president are to
offer proposals concerning changes of
state boundaries.

The combined Allied and German
inland water transport fleets carried
2,440,025 tons of coal during July,
topping the previous postwar record
by almost 500,000 tons. The record
tonnage included all coal which was
moved by water from the Ruhr mines
and the brown coal fields of Cologne.

US Zone

After Military Government eased
the restrictions on circulation, size and
publication frequency of the US-licens-
ed press, most newspaper publishers
announced plans for bringing out
more editions each week. Most of the
metropolitan papers also began is-
suing local editions printed for nearby
towns.

British Zone

The transfer of approximately 10,000
former British Army vehicles to the
German economy has been almost
completed.

French Zone

The July 28 explosion at the
chemical plant in Ludwigshafen affect-
ed the current interzonal trade pro-
gram with the French Zone. Chemical
products account for more than half
of the total value of commodities to
be delivered from the French Zone to
the Bizonal Area.

The French Military Government
has agreed to modify the foreign trade
procedures in the French Zone and
bring them into line with those of the
Bizonal Area in preparation for an
amalgamation of JEIA and of ICOMEX.

Bavaria

The liquidation of war plants in
Bavaria will be completed by fall with
the exception of five plants, action on
which has been defenred.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

— . ees

.

Unloading coal from a German-operated vessel, the Bruno Gammerstort,

in Hamburg harbor.

The vessel brought the first 1,000 tons of a con-

tracted 130,060 tons of low-grade bunker coal from England for German

coastal shipping, thus restoring a traditional market.

The leader of the Regensburg
Cathedral Choir has been negotiating
to send the famous boys’ choir to the
United States for the benefit of
charitable enterprises.

The Saarland, which has been trad-
ing on the customary foreign trade
basis since its incorporation into
France, has booked orders with
Bavarian firms for more than $850,000
worth of electrical equipment and
heavy machinery.

Berlin

Each resident of the western sectors
of Berlin who holds a valid smoker's
card is eligible to purchase eight
American cigarettes at 20 Deutsche
pfennige each.

A consignment of
women's and children’s shoes manu-
factured in western Germany was
flown into Berlin recently by Royal
Airforce planes. This was the first shoe
consignment brought into the city by
airlift since the blockade of Berlin
began in June. The shoes were for
distribution in the British and Ameri-
can Sectors.

17,580 men's,

The supply of CARE packages, now
being flown into Berlin by two com-
mercial airlines, is sufficient to meet

26

(Photo by JEIA)

all current demands. An average of
150 orders for CARE packages is being
placed daily with the Berlin office, in”
addition to orders placed with CARE”
offices in the zone and in the United”
States.

Hamburg

The first British schoolboys to come
to Germany as guests of a German
school arrived in Hamburg. The party”
consisted of four boys, each aged
about 17, from Uppingham school in
Rutlandshire.

By order of the regional commis
sioner for the city of Hamburg, the
Hamburger Volkszeitung will be sub-
ject to pre-publication censorship for
an indefinite period. The newspaper
has habitually pursued a policy of
biased and malicious reporting im
matters concerning the western o>
cupying powers.

Hesse :

The first collection of American att
to tour Germany since the war, Con-
sisting of 54 paintings by modem
American abstractionists, went on @X-"
hibition at Frankfurt.

A total of 1,161 counterfeit 50 and
100-mark notes of the old Allied

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 30 ---
Military Mark issue, with a face value
of 115,900 marks, was intercepted in
Hesse during June.

Lower Saxony

Plans are under way to hand back
to the Germans the village of Meer-
peck, near Hanover, which has been
a displaced persons camp since the
end of the war.

Two Hanover companies, the Inter-
national Handels Company and the
Leichtmetallwerke, are jointly of-
fering for export prefabricated alu-
minum theater and movie halls. These
structures have two outstanding ad-
vantages—speed of construction and
adaptability in size. A theater ac-
comodating 200 can be erected in 72 to
82 hours, and later enlarged to a

capacity of 1,000.

North Rhine-Westphalia

The regular payment of bizonal
miners for their families in Berlin has
been arranged. As an emergency
measure, a representative of the US
UK Coal Control Group flew to Berlin
in August with DM 4,947,480 for the
Berlin Magistrat as back payment for
the 100 miners’ families living in
Berlin.

Schleswig-Holstein

The Kosmos III, 25,000-ton Nor-
wegian vessel and the second largest
floating whale factory in the world,
is in Kiel for overhaul. The work is
expected to take about one month
and will cost $140,000, which will go
into the JEIA fund for the Bizonal
economy.

Wuerttemberg-Baden
Approximately 50,000 tons of con-
Sumer goods, medical supplies and
Taw materials were turned over to
the Wuerttemberg-Baden STEG office
(German Public Corporation) during
the first six months of 1948, These
included $500,000 worth of clothing,
35,000 tons of rubber scrap, more than
$2,500,000 worth of medical supplies
and 7,700 motor vehicles
Some 25 students at the technical
University in Karlsruhe are receiving
a daily noon meal as a result of a
Special grant of the Americans in the
Karlsruhe German-American Club.

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

Wuerttemberg-Baden became the
first state in the US Zone to finish the
1947-48 mine pit-prop cutting and
shipping program, filling this year's
quota of 91,000,000 board feet seven
weeks ahead of schedule.

Soviet Zone

Soviet authorities have released
11 bizonal inland-waterway oraft, car-
rying Czechoslovakian cargo to Ham-
burg, and two bizonal craft with cargo
for Czechoslovakia, through their con-
trol point at Wittenberge. However,
Soviet authorities continued to hold
32 bizonal craft loaded with 4,595 tons
of flour and wheat at Wittenberge.

EUCOM

Branch banks of the American Ex-
press Company and the Chase National
City Bank of New York located in the
European Command have been
authorized by the US _ Treasury
Department to cash US Savings Bonds
and US Armed Forces Leave Bonds,
subject to the same terms under
which bonds can be redeemed in the
United States.

Ninety-three tons of US Army
Engineer equipment and supplies sur-
plus to the needs of the occupation
forces are being released to the Ger-
man economy. The transfer began in
August and is continuing this month.

Doctors Complain

The Young Doctors’ Association in
Bavaria has complained that 3,000
youthful physicians are unable to
make a living wage and that 1,600 of
these work in hospitals and clinics
without pay.

Some amelioration may take place
as a result of two factors expected
to keep medical school admissions
down. First, all medical schools in
the Bizonal Area recently agreed to
limit admissions to 100 students each
a year; second, preliminary estimates
of the effect of the currency reform
reveal that only one-fouth of the
5,865 medical students in the three
Bavarian medical schools will con-
tinue their studies.

Maj.

ation Centers and Exhibitions Branch, ISD.

27

Gen. George P. Hays, deputy military governor, inspects the
library of the new US Information Center at Fulda, Hesse, accompanied
by Mr. Emill P. Jallouk, chief of distribution services for the US Inform-

(Army Signal Corps)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
(Continued from Page 18)

The German Bizonal
Economic Administration

clamation No.7 vests in the Bizonal
Economic Administration.

Tne High Court can hear and decide
appeals on points of law from de-
cisions of German courts which are
no longer subject to any other appeal,
if they involve the question on which
the High Court has original juris-
diction. It can also be appealed to if
such decisions involve the application
or interpretation of Military Govern-
ment legislation which established
financial or economic bizonal in-
stitutions.

Finally, if the validity of any im-
plementing regulation issued under
any bizonal legislation becomes per-
tinent to the decision of any German
court, and the court finds that such
regulation is invalid, then it shall
submit the question of such validity
to the High Court.

HE validity of Military Govern-

ment legislation cannot be chal-
lenged in German courts, Since all
ordinances have to be approved by
the Bipartite Board, the High Court
cannot declare ordinances invalid.
But it is free to make such a decision
on implementing regulations, whether
issued by the Economic Administration
or by the state governments.

Except for this necessary limitation,
the Bizonal High Court is so set up
that it can develop into an independ-
ent instrument of German jurisdiction
in a_ significant sector of German
economic life.

The Bank of the German States is
a central bank for the combined zones
and is designed to serve as the
fiscal agent for the German bizonal
organization and to perform clearing
functions for all the member banks
as well as to provide unified control
of currency and credit within the
zones, and assume operation of foreign
exchange and accounting. After the
recent currency reform it was de-
signated as a bank of issue.

The Bank is operated by a board
of officers who are appointed by and
responsible to a board of directors.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

This board, consisting of a chairman,
the president of the bank and the
presidents of each of the member
state Central Banks, determines the
general policies of the Bank which
are subject to direction and review
by the Allied Banking Commission
consisting of the representives of the
US, British and French military
governors.

ROM the initial capital which was
subscribed by the State Central
Banks in proportion to their deposits
and from required reserve deposits
and free deposits left with the Bank
by the member central banks, the
Bank of the German States may make
advances to the central banks and to
the Bizonal Economic Administration,
and may rediscount bills of exchange.
In addition, the Bank may buy and
sell bizonal treasury bills and fixed
interest securities as well as perform
other fiscal services.

By purchasing and selling bizonal
securities in the open market, by
determining the interest rate at which
it rediscounts and grants loans to the
State Central Banks, and above all,
by its unlimited power to prescribe
reserve requirements of individual
banks, the Bank is in a position to
control the availability of credit to
business, individuals, and government
authorities in the two zones.

The Bank of the German States
also serves as the fiscal agent for
JEIA in its promotion and control of
German foreign trade.

Aid for Czech Refugees

With authorization from the head-
quarters of the Preparatory Com-
mission of the International Refugee
Organization in Geneva, area directors
in the US Zone have been instructed
to’ provide Czech residents in German
refugee camps with supplemental food
above the German ration; medical
supplies, housekeeping, cleaning and
sanitary items and amenity supplies
required to bring their level of care
essentially equal to that of displaced
persons in PCIRO centers, and to
establish camp administration under
elected leaders comparable to that of
PCIRO assembly centers.

28

Faction Leader
Expelled from NDP

Dr. Heinrich Leuchtgens, chairman
of the right-wing National Democratic
Party, has expelled from membership
Carl Christian Heinz, youthful orator
who resigned his position as party
propaganda director after charging
that the elderly party leader was
attempting to set himself up as a
“party dictator.”

A meeting of the Wiesbaden section
of the NDP branded Heinz's expulsion
as illegal and expelled three of Leucht-
gens’ supporters in reprisal. Ousted
were Friedrich Nagel, chairman of the
NDP faction in the Wiesbaden city
council; Alexander Thon, city council
member; and Renate Borg, local NDP
office manager. .

Heinz, who said he has rejected the
nationalistic-monarchistic  conserva-
tism advocated by the party's elder
element in favor of a more democratic
political philosophy, declared, “I am
fighting for Germany.”

Unusual Contracts

In the first transaction of its kind
licensed by the Joint Export-Import
Agency, an American has contracted
for the erection of tombstones for
two relatives buried in a Wiesbaden
cemetery.

Another unusual contract was an
initial sale by a Frankfurt manufac-
turer of a small order of hat feathers
and other hat ornaments to a firm in
South Africa, home of ostrich feathers,
a traditional item of millinery dec-
oration,

Also, a German advertising agency
contracted to display for a period of
30 days in Frankfurt 100 posters deal-
ing with international trade in behalf
of a Netherlands company.

Appointments Announced

Brig. Gen. Edward A. Noyes, chief
surgeon, EUCOM, has been appointed
as major general in the Medical Corps,
Regular Army of the US, and Col.
Gouverneur V. Emerson, deputy chief
surgeon, has been appointed brigadier
general in the Medical Corps, AUS.

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 32 ---
Stars of the American
stage, screen and radio
for the entertainment of
the US occupation forces
in Germany. Recent enlter-
tainers include: (above)
Wallace Beery with the
Meddydemsters choir of
Bowdoin College, at the
Casa Carioca in Garmisch.
(left) Charlie McCarthy
with his doctor, Edgar
Bergen, in an operating
table scene in blockaded
Berlin. (right) Martha Raye
with a Military Police
escort after her appear-
ance inGarmisch. (below)
Members of the Jack
Benny party during its
stop at the Palmgarden
Club in Frankfurt, left to
right, Mary Livingston,
Alice Faye, Phil Harris
and Marilyn Maxwell.

(Amy Signal Corps photos)

--- Page 33 ---
Changes in Key MG Personnel List

Control Office

Budget & Fiscal Branch (only)

Assistant Control Office (Budget & Fiscal) and
Chief, Budget & Fiscal Branch: Mr. Fletcher
D. Mitchell, Jn, Frankfurt 21045/21146.

Chief, Budget Analysis Section; Mr.
W. Phythian, Frankfurt 21135.

Assistant Chief; Mrs, H, Farrington, Frank-
furt 21135.

Chief, Fiscal Control Section: Mr. Haroid W.
Graham, Frankfurt 21048,

Chief, Procurement & Requirements Section:
Mr, Vernon C. Jones, Frankfurt 21035,

Purchasing & Contracting Officer: Mr. D. W.
Bernard, Frankfurt 21135/22345,

Chief, Voucher Audit Section: Mr.
Blanchette, Frankfurt 21144.

Curtis

F, W.

Armed Forces Division

Director: Maj. Gen. William E. Hall, Berlin
43934.

Deputy Director: (vacant), Berlin 42860.

Chief, Executive Branch: Mr. G. B. Robbins,
Berlin 43036.

Deputy Chief and Chief, Administrative
Section: Mr. Robert B. Burroughs, Berlin
43013.

Chief, Reports & Statistics Section: Miss. G.
Plagmann, Berlin 45168.

Chief, Army Branch: Lt. Col. Gien W. Camp-
bell, Berlin 42013,

Chief, Air Forces Branch: Lt, Col. B. E. Stead-
man, Berlin 42062.

Chief, Navy Branch (attached): Capt, Joseph
P, Thew (US Navy), Berlin 42363.

Chief, Civil Aviation Branch: Mr. Thomas D.
Johnson, Wiesbaden 8341. ext, 489.

Chief, Economic Regulations Section, Mr. John
S. Parker, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 448.

Chief, Airways Operations Section; Mr.
Emerson Mehrling, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 441.

Chief, Airways Engineering Section: Mr. L.
Meade Hammond, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 443
and Munich 2681, ext. 666.

Chief, Military Government Civil Airport
Section Bavania (vacant): Munich 2681, ext.
505/595.

Deputy Chief: Mr. John F. Clymer, Munich
2681, ext. 505/595.

Berlin Liaison Officer: Mr, James F. Ferretti,
Berlin 42111.

Chief, Meteorological Branch: Mr. Clayton Van
Thullener, Bad Kissingen 2271, ext. 67.

Chief, Instruments and Supply Section: Mr. J.
E. Gallagher, Bad Kissingen 2271, ext. 67.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Dr. E. H. Litchfield, Berlin 42576.

Acting Director, Office of Director, Nurem-
berg: Mr. H. Philip Metger, Nuremberg 61253.

US Representative, Tripartite Liaison Group:
Dr. E. H. Litchfield, Frankfurt 8230.

Alternate US Member: Dr. Hans
Frankfurt 8685.

Deputy Director for Bizonia and Governmental
Affairs Adviser: Mr. Kenneth Dayton,
Frankfurt 8429.

Assistant Adviser: Mr. Anton Pabsch, Frank.
furt 8429.

Assistant Adviser: Mr.
Frankfurt 8728,

Executive Officer: Mr. A. Giggal, Berlin 43523.

Chief, Personnel & Administration Branch:
Mr. F, Joseph Tesmer, Nuremberg 61251.

Acting Personnel Officer (Berlin): Miss M.
Mayer, Berlin 43331.

Chief, Secretariat: Mr, W. Thad Lovett, Frank-
furt 8064.

Chief, Governmental Structures Branch: Dr. H.
Simons, Berlin 42610.

Assistant Chief, Legislation Branch: Mr. D.
Hunter, Berlin 43557.

Chief, Political Activities Branch: Mr. John
Elliot, Nuremberg 61300.

Deputy Chief: Dr. Rawland M. Myers, Nurem-
berg 61301.

Chief, Population & Analysis Branch: Mr. Karl
Shafer, Nuremberg 61315.

Assistant Chief: Mr. L. Kamsky, Nuremberg
61314.

Simons,

Sam Wahthaftig,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The changes in the Key MG
Personnel list on this page have
been reported to the editorial
office of the Information Bulletin
since the compilation of the last
complete roster published in
Issue No. 138 of June 29. Other
changes will be published as
they are reported until the next
complete roster is compiled, prob-
ably in October.

Chief, Civil Service & Administrative Courts
Branch: Mr, Ellsworth C. Wolfsperger,
Frankfurt 8205.

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. Theo E. Hall,
Berlin 43624.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. L. McCraw, Nuremberg
61245,

Chief, Police & Fire Section; Mr. U. C. Urton,
Nuremberg 61248, ;
Chief, Public Health Branch: Col. T. Kubia,

Nuremberg 61304.

Deputy Chief, Lt. Col. W.
Nuremberg 61304.

Chief, Nutrition Section: Majon Robert Ryer,
Nuremberg 61305.

Chief, Narcotics Control Section: Mr. Charles
Dyar. Nuremberg 61305.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mrs. Mildred B.
Smith, Nuremberg 61250.

Deputy Chief: Mr. T. M. Willcox, Nuremberg
61250.

Chief, Displaced Persons Branch: Mr. L. G.
Kelly, Berlin 42175.

Displaced Persons Officer: Mr,
Berlin 45411.

Chief, Refugee Section, Mr. G. Weisz, Nu-
remberg 61302.

Chief, Civil Liberties & Democratization
Branch: Dr. Harold W. Landin, Nuremberg
61306,

OMG Wuerttemberg Baden
(Stuttgart APO 154)

Director: Mr. Charles M. LaFollette, 550.

Deputy Director; Mr. Harvey M. Coverley, 275.

Acting Executive Officer — Lt. Col. Edward
J. Dninkert, 542.

Assistant Executive end Personnel Ad-
ministration Division: Mr. Harry B. Wolfe,
586/438,

Adjutant: ist Lt, Felix Zak, 538/642,

Public Information Office: Mr. Charles D.
Beckman, 486.

French Adviser: Mr. Robert R. Hutton, 264.

Intelligence & Reports Division: Mr. J. Ward
Starr, 510. :

Inspections Officer: Lt, Col.
Rousseau Jr., 379.

Housing Adviser: Capt. Herman Brunke, 385.

R. de Forest,

E, Glazier,

Joseph H.

Governmental Affairs Division

Director: Mr. Chester B. Lewis, 266.

Chief: Civil Advisory Branch; Mr. Harold A.
‘Wyatt, 258.

Public Health Adviser: Lt, Col. Philip E. Beck-
jord, 515.

Refugee and Welfare Adviser: Mr. James H.
Campbell, 548.

Public Safety Adviser: Mr. Robert L. Perry,
288/429,

Chief, Denazification Branch: Mr. David An-
derson, 544/480,

Bipartite Affairs Division

Director: Mr. George L. Erion, 549.

Transportation Adviser: Mr. Arthur M. Car-
rison, 268.

Manpower Adviser: Mr. Edwin F. Beal, 569.

Finance Adviser: Mr. John Van Stirum, 531.

Chief, Food, Agriculture & Forestry Branch:
Mr. Paul F. Taggart, 214.

30

Commerce Adviser: Mr. Joseph Letteriello, 557,

Industrial Adviser: Mr. Lionel Brunton,

520/489, "
Decartelization Adviser: Mr. Otto E. Hurl.
man, 339.

Property Division

Director: Mr. Zinn Garrett, 563.

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr. Zinn Gar.
Tett, 563,

Chief, Reparations Branch: Mv, John A,
Holbrook, 562.
Chief, Restitutions Branch: Mr, Edward 0,

Smith, 348.

Legal Division

Director: Mr. Ribhard L. Jackson, 259.

Chief, Military Government Courts Brand:
Mr. Carl W. Fulghum, 221.

Chief, German Justice Branch: Mr. Ralph E.
Brown, 332.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. Paul J. Gernert,
26:

Chief, Legal Advice Branch: Mr. Wesley A.
Smith, 363.

Education & Cultural Relations
Division

Director: Mr. John P. Steinen, 527.
Chief, Education Branch: Mr, Payne Templeton,
243. 7

Chief, University Branch:
Ittner, 516.

Chief, ‘Cultural Exchange Branch: Mr. John
Mead, 346.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr, Carl J.
Arndt, 216.

Chief, Group Activities Branch: Mr. Leon Shel-
nutt, 574,

Mr. Robert J.

Information Services Division

Director: Mr. Nicholas Canady, 529.

Chief, Plans & Operations Branch: Mr. John
Boxer, 588/629.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Joseph Dees, 577.

Chief, Publications Branch: Mr. Ewald |W.
Schnitzer, 579.

Chief, Radio Branch:
93678.

Chief, Theater & Music Branch: Mr. John A.
Scott, 378.

Chief, Exhibition & Information Centers: Mr.
Michael Weyl, 93091.

Field Relations Division
Director: Mr. Eugene P. Walters, 556.

Mr.. Fred G. Taylor,

Combined Travel Bureau

Communications for the United States
Element of the Combined Travel Board will
be addressed as follows:

Correspondence: Combined Travel Board,
United States Element, APO 757, US Amy.

Classified cables: Communicatins Center,
Frankfurt, For Combined Travel Board, United
States Element, Bad Rothenfelde.

Unclassified cables under military or com-
mercial wires: Combined Travel Board. United
States Element, Bad Rothenfelde.

Bad Rothenfelde telephone numbers of the
respective branches of the United States Ele-
ment, Combined Travel, are:

Chief, United States ‘Element, 149.

Deputy Chief, United States Element, 150.

United States Entries, 157/158/159/160,

United States Exits, 161/162.

Location of Offices

The Office of the US Naval Liaison Officer
has moved from the old SCU Building at
76 Bergheimer Strasse, Heidelberg, and is now
located in Building C. Command Post.

The Office of the United States Political
Adviser, EUCOM, is presently located in the
north and of the first floor of Building C:
Command Post, Heidelberg.

The Headquarters and Service Company;
7780 OMGUS Group, Wuerttemberg-Baden
Section, Stuttgart, Germany, APO 154, was
discontinued Aug. 16.

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

--- Page 34 ---
Excerpts Taken from Official Instructions

MILITARY GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS

The following Titles and Changes to Titles
of Military Government Regulations are
currently in effect.

General Table of Contents (Completeness of
individual General Table of Contents (GTC)
can be assured by checking individual page
number against the latest Change in which
the page appears, as indicated below)
Change 1 (i thru 4, 7, 8, 21, 22, 29, 30, 43,

44, 48, 53, 54, 57 thru 60, 67, 68, 81 and 82)
Change 2 (5, 6, 55, 56, 65, 66)

Change 3 (69, 70)

Change 4 (35, 36)

Change 8 (61, 62, 62(a), 62(b))

Change 10 (15, 16)

Change 14 (63, 64)

Change 16 (39, 40 (41 and 42 eliminated))
Change 19 (Eliminates pages 37 and 38)
Change 20 (17, 18)

Change 21 (19, 20)

Change 22 (76(a), 76(b))

Change 25 (51, 52)

Ghange 27 (71, 72)

Change 30 (45, 46)

Change 31 (31 thru 34)

Change 32 (77, 78)

Change 33 (73, 74)

Change 37 (79, 80)

Change 38 (75, 76)

Changa 39 (27, 28)

Change 40 (9 thru 14)
Change 41 (49, 50)
Change 42 (23, 24, 25, 26)

Title 1 — General Provisions

Change 1 (Superseded original Title)
Corrigendum 1 to Change 1

Title 2 — Eradication of Nazism and Militarism
Change 1 (Superseded original Title)
Change 2

Title 3 — Political Activities

Change 1 (Superseded original Title)
Corrigendum 1 to Change 1

Change 2

Change 3

Title 4 — Civil Administration

Change 1 (Superseded original Title)
Title 5 — Legal and Penal Administration
Change 1 (Superseded original Title)
Corrigendum 1 to Change 1

Corrigendum 2 to Change 1

Change 2

Change 3

Change 4

Change 5

Change 6

Title 6 — Public Health

Change 6 (Superseded original Title and

Changes 1 thru 5)
Title 7 — Public Welfare
Change 8 (Superseded original Title’ and

Changes 1 thru 7)

Title 8 — Education and Religious Affairs

Change 3 (Superseded original Title and
Changes 1 and 2)

Change 4

Title 9 — Public Safet:

MGR's 9—901, 905, 906, 907, 950, 952, 953,
954, 957 in original Title

Change 11

Change 12

Change 13 (Superseded Changes 1 thru 10 and
Parts of the original Title not specifically
mentioned above)

Change 14

Change 15

Change 16

Change 18

Change 19

Change 20

Change 21

Change 22

Title 10 — Communications

Shange 1 (Superseded original Title)
Ere Commerce and Industry (Superseded
Changs | @4 13 and all Changes thereto)
Qhange 2

Title 12 —

Food and Agriculture

Change 1 (Su éd origi i
persedéd original Title
Shange 3 (Superseded Change 2) )
Change 7 Tgansportation
upersed igi i
Chiggen Senna original Title and

SEPTEMBER 7 1948

Title 15 — Manpower Administration

Change 2 (Superseded original Title and
Change 1)

Corrigendum 1 to Change 2

Change 3

Change 4

Change 5

Title 16 — Finance

Change 2 (Superseded original Title and
Change 1

Corrigendum 1 to Change:2

Change 3

Change 4

Change 5

Change 6

Title 17 — Property Control

Change 2 (Superseded original Title and
Change 1)

Change 3

Title 18 — Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives

Change 1 (Superseded original Title)

Title 19 — Restitutions

Title 20 — Displaced Persons, Dislodged Ger-
mans and Expellees Change 1 (Superseded
original Title)

Title 21 — Information Control

Change 3 (Superseded original Title and
Changes 1 and 2)

Change 4

Change 5

Change 6

Title 22 — Reports and Histories

Change 5 (Superseded original Title and

Changes 1, 2, 3 and 4)
Title 23 — Military Government Legislation

Change 1 (Superseded original Title)
Change 2 Change 26
Change 3 Change 27
Change 4 Change 28
Change 5 Corrigendum 1 to C—28
Change 6 Change 29
Change 7 Change 30
Change 10 Change 31
Change 11 Change 32
Change 12 Change 33
Change 16 Change 34
Change 18 Change 35
Change 19 Change 36
Change 20 Change 37
Change 21 Change 38
Change 22 Change 39
Change 23 Change 40
Change 24 Change 41
Change 25 Change 42

Title 24 — Important German Legislation
Change 1

Change 2

Change 3

Change 4 (Superseded original Title)
Change 5

Change 6

Change 7

Corrigendum 1 to Change 7

Change 8

Change 9

Change 10

Change 11

Change 12

Change 13

Change 14

Change 15

Title 27 — Control of Scientific Research
Change 1

Addressees on “M” distribution list, who
have not as yet received copies of the Titles
and Changes to Titles, should request them
from the Commanding General, OMGUS,
APO 742, Attention: Adjutant General. Units
or sections subordinate to addressees on ““M"
distribution list, should obtain them from the
major addressee to whom they are subordinate.

Requests by listed addressees for increased
or decreased distribution should be addressed
to Commanding General, OMGUS, APO 742,
Attention: Adjutant General.

Care should be taken by all concerned that
an accurate record of the location of all sets
of the Regulations is maintained so that sub-
sequently issued Changes may be distributed
and inserted promptly and expeditiously. —

From OMGUS Letter AG 010.6 (CO),
Aug. 11.

31

PAY FOR GERMANS ON TDY

In view of the dual currency system in
Berlin, it is necessary that all indigenous
employees from Berlin on TDY and on de-
tached service in the US Zone of Germany
for periods in excess of 30 days be paid
through local zonal civilian personnel offices.
Any indigenous employee from Berlin on
TDY or detached service in the US Zone
who has been,or will remain in the zone
for a period in excess of 30 days will be
administered by the local zonal civilian per-
sonnel office for payment of wages. Each
OMGUS division having personnel in the
zone for a period exceeding 30 days will
submit all back payrolls and future payrolls
on such employees to the socal zonal Civi-
lian Personnel Office. — From EUCOM
Cable SC/12445.

DEUTSCHE MARKS IN BERLIN

The Deutsche mark notes which were
issued in the western sectors of Berlin by
the Currency Commission bear the letter ‘B’
in a circle. The marking of the notes was
done through stamping. Now notes are being
issued on which the ‘B’ without a circle is
marked on the notes through perforation
instead of through stamping. Notes which
already have the “'B’' mark in the form of
a stamp may also be perforated. All notes
bearing a ‘B' marking whether in the form
of perforation, stamp or both are equally
valid, —
Statement By Currency Commission, Aug. 12.

FEEDING INDIGENOUS PERSONNEL

The "Monthly Report on Feeding of Indi-
genous Civilian Contract Workers in the
US Area of Control, Germany, MG/Food/
101/F"’ willl be prepared for the period July 1
to 31 and will be due at Reports and Sta-
tistics Group, Office of the Economics Ad-
viser, OMGUS, Aug. 31. Succeeding reports
will be prepared every calendar month and
submitted in accordance with the instructions
on the report form. —

From OMGUS Letter AG 319.1 (EA), Aug. 9.
BIZONAL ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Text of MG Order No.1 Pursuant to

Article III (5) of Military Government

Proclamation No. 7—Bizonal Economic Ad-

ministration:

Whereas Article III, paragraph (5) of Mili-
tary Government Proclamation No.7 provides
that the Economic Council shall have the
power to adopt and enact ordinances on
such matters as may be determined from tim
to time by the Bipartite Board; and

Whereas the Bipartite Board has determined
that the Economic Council shail have certain
powers in the field of manpower; and

Whereas the British Military Government
is issuing Order No 1 pursuant to British
Military Government Ordinance No 126,

Now it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Economic Council shall, within the
United States Zone, have power to adopt
and enact ordinances dealing with matters
of general policy which affect more than
one Land (state) with respect to:

a. Employment and placement service, un-
employment insurance and allocation of
labor;

b. Protection of
(Arbeitsrecht); and

c. Social insurance to the extent that
uniformity within the Bizonal Economic Area
is necessary.

2. This Order shall be applicable within
the Laender (states) of Bavaria, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, Hesse and Bremen and shall be-
come effective on 16 August 1948. —
Attached to OMGUS Letter AG 010 (LD),
Aug. 6.

CHANGE IN REPORT PERIOD

Progress Report — Confiscation of Landed
Property, MG/Food/75/F, (Dec 47), is changed
from a monthly to a three-monthly basis.
The revised report will bear the report con-
trol symbol MG/Food/75/F (August 1948).
The old report forms are to be used until
present supplies are exhausted.

The report will henceforth indicate the
situation as of the first day after the report
period, instead of the last day of the report

labor and labor law

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
period as heretofore. The report will be due
at state OMG 25 days after, and at Reports
and Statistics Group, Office of the Econo-
mics Adviser, OMGUS, APO 742, 30 days
after the status date as described above.

The first report on the three-monthly basis
will indicate the situation as of Sept. 1 and
will be due at this headquarters not later
than Sept. 30. —

From OMGUS Letter AG 319.1 (EA), Aug. 6.

CONDUCT ON LEAVE

Bach ‘commander, recommending approval
of or approving any leave. order, pass or
oral permit for military personnel to travel
in and visit non-occupied countries is re-
sponsible for the proper orientation of the
personnel so applying, covering the customs,
standards of living in the country concerned,
and instructions on nfilitary courtesy, appear-
ance and conduct.

The commander will assure himself that
such personnel have sufficient funds to defray
anticipated expenses and that personnel are
of such moral character and have attained
such standards of military training and disci-
pline that they will ‘reflect credit upon the
military service in their contacts with foreign
personnel, —

From EUCOM Circular No. 62.

VISITS TO NUREMBERG

The required prior clearances for official
visits granted by the Commanding General,
Nuremberg Military Post, will not include
dependents,

All visits to Nuremberg will be restricted
to official travel with the following exceptions:
Military and civilian personnel US and Allied
quartered or billeting within immediate sur-
rounding Nuremberg area, not requiring
lodging.

Individuals on official visits covered by
leave or pass during daylight hours and whid,
involve no messing or lodging.

Personnel on non-duty status may visit re},
atives or friends provided a bona fide Nurem.
berg address is include in their travel ordery
or pass, —

From EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 31,

FOOD REPORT DISCONTINUED
Food Ration Coupon Report, MG/Food/25/R,

is discontinued, there being no further
requirement for the information containeq
in this report at OMGUS level. Henceforth

the information formerly
subject report will be
German bizonal channels.
From OMGUS Letter AG 319.1 (EA),
Aug. 17. .

supplied by the
available through

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No, 56, EUCOM Hq, 1 Aug. 1948.
Sec I — Procedure for Payment of Freight
Charges by Certain Nonappropriated Fund
Agencies. Sec Il — Disposition of Deceased:
Rescinds EUCOM Cir 60 of 1947 and states
new procedure,

Troops Assignment No. 23, EUCOM Ha,
3 Aug. 1948.

Regrading of Security Classification, AG
380.01 (AG), OMGUS, 6 Aug. 1948. Involves
four letters of 1944,

Progress Report — Confiscation of Landed
Property, AG 319.1 (EA), OMGUS, 6 Aug. 1948.

Weekly Directive No, 31, EUCOM Hq,
6 Aug. 1948. Lists following:

Sec I — Engineer Support of European Com-
mand Exchange System.

Sec I] — 1948 EUCOM Football Champion-
ships.

Sec III — Weekly Check of Particular
Entries in Certain Personnel Records.

Sec IV — Release of Signal Corps Training
Films. Lists ‘‘Peripheral Nerve Surgery,
Part I — Sciatic Nerve,"” ‘Dynamic Physical
Reconditioning,"’ ‘Physical Medicine Service,’
“Foundations,” ‘‘Structure’’ and ‘‘Methods.”’

Sec V — Course of Instruction in Property
Accounting,

Sec VI — Appointment of Officers in the
Women’s Army Corps, Regular Army and in
the United States Air Force. Amends wording
in Sec V, WD 30.

Sec VII — Frankiurt—Heidelberg—Munich
Train Schedule. Amends Sec XVI WD 30.

Sec VIII — Recruiting Reports,

Sec IX — Enlistment — Amendment to
Pamphlet 12—16,

Sec X — Living Quarters for Chaplains,

Sec XI — Correspondence and Cable Ad-
dress of the United States Element, Combined
Travel Board.

Sec XII — EUCOM Multiple Addressee Let-
ters and Cables.

Sec XIII — Rescissions. Lists Sec VII, WD
14 of 1947; Sec XIII, WD 3, Sec XIII WD 9,
Sec VII WD 14 of 1948.

Feeding of Indigenous Civilian Contract
Workers in the US Area of Control, Ger-
many, AG 430.2 (EA), OMGUS, 6 Aug. 1948,
Amends OMGUS letter of July 7, 1948 to
read: “Deduction at the rate of sixty (60)
pfennigs per meal will be made on pay vou-
chers or pay rolls of individuals concerned."’
Order No. 1 Pursuant to Article III (5) of
Military Government Proclamation No. 7,
“Bizonal Economic Administration.” AG 010
(LD), OMGUS, 6 Aug. 1948. Gives texts of
order extending Economic Council's power to
manpower field.

Military Government Court Letter No. 7,
AG 015 Mil Govt Courts (LD), OMGUS, 6 Aug.
1948. Gives extracts from reviews on con-
fessions.

Policy on Construction and Maintenance
Projects, AG 600.1 GSP-AGO, EUCOM Hq,
5 Aug. 1948,

Circular No, 62, EUCOM Hg, 8 Aug. 1948.
Sec I — Conduct of US Military Personnel in
Non-Occupied Countries. Sec II — Personnel
Rosters: Rescinds Sec XVII WD 8 and Sec XV
WD 13 of 1948 and gives current procedure.
Sec II — Restriction of Venereal Disease
Cases. Sec IV — Ownership and Operation
of Privately Owned Aircraft in US Zone of

Germany: Rescinds Sec XI WD 9 of 1947 and
states new restrictions. Sec V — Quarters,
Billets and Transient Accommodations: Res-
cinds EUCOM letter AG 620 GAP-AGE, Jan.
11, 1947, and gives mew instructions tor enter-
taining in quarters, Sec VI — Sale of Parts
to EES for Privately Owned Vehicles of
Military Design, Sec VII — Use of Meal
Tickets (EC Form 55-20): those
issued for travel.

Reporting on Indigenous Funds (GARTOA,
G-811) Expended for Personal Services, AG 123
GCO-AGO, EUCOM Hg, 7 Aug, 1948.

Amendment to Instructions Implementing
Military Government Law No. 58 and Control
Council Directive No. 50 (MGR Title 23-337
[a]), AG 010.3 (PD), OMGUS, 9 Aug, 1948.
Inserts in par 6 of instructions: ‘‘Upon speci-
fic approval of Military Government, this
liability may be walved in any particular
case."

Amendment of the Report of the Military
Governor, No, 36, AG 383.3 (CO), OMGUS,
9 Aug. 1948,

Monthly Report on Feeding of Indigenous
Civilian Contract Workers in the US Area of
Control, Germany, MG/Food/101/F, (Aug 48),
AG 319.1 (EA), OMGUS, 9 Aug. 1948.

Unblocking and transfer of Property Re-
ferred to in Article IX (1) of Control Coun-
cil Directive No. 50, AG 602.3 (PD), OMGUS,
9 Aug, 1948.

Command Type Installations Forecast, AG
680 GSP-AGO, EUCOM Hg, 9 Aug. 1948.

Construction and Maintenance Program for
Calendar Year 1949, AG 600.1 GSP-AGO,
EUCOM Hq, 9 Aug, 1948.

Advance Copy of Change 2 to Title 20,
“Displaced Persons, Dislodged Germans and
Expellees,” AG 383.7 (DP) (CA), OMGUS,
10 Aug, 1948.

EUCOM Publication, Depot Bulletin 32,
EUCOM Hq, 10 Aug. 1948. Covers period be-
tween Aug. 2 and 6.

Historical Notes of Key OMGUS Personnel,
AG 201.3 (CO), OMGUS, 10 Aug. 1948, (See
Information Bulletin Issue No. 142).

Military Government Regulations, AG 010.6
(CO), OMGUS, 11 Aug. 1948. Lists Titles and
Changes to titles of Military Government
Regulations currently iin effect.

Indication of Required Distribution, AG
461.01 (AG), OMGUS, 11 Aug. 1948.

Monthly Pilferage Report, AG 400.73 GDS-
AGO, EUCOM Hg, 10 Aug. 1948.

Revisions of Portions of Title 2 and Part 8

Concerns

of Title 9, MGR, AG 010 (CA), OMGUS,
11 Aug. 1948. Concerns  denazification
functions.

Withdrawal of Military Government from
Denazification Operations, AG 383 (CA),
OMGUS, 11 Aug. 1948. :
Redesignation of Information Control Di-
vision, AG 322 (IS), OMGUS, 12 Aug. 1948.
(See Information Bulletin Issue No. 142).
European Command Equipment Modification
Lists and Tables of Allowances, AG 400.34
GOT-AGO, EUCOM Hq, 12 Aug. 1948. Res-
cinds EUCOM letter of July 13 and lists doc-
uments currently in effect.
Weekly Directive No. 32,
13 Aug. 1948, Lists following:
Sec I — Mechanical Failures
wagens.

EUCOM Hq,
of Volks-

Sec II — Sale of Unserviceable M-1903
Caliber .30 Rifles.

Sec II] — Change of Address, US Naval
Liaison Officer.

Sec IV — Weekly Check of Particular
Entries in Certain Personnel Records.

Sec V — Fire Prevention in the Handling of
Gasoline.

Sec VI — Courses of Instruction at European
Command Engineer School.

Sec VII — Signal Corps Training Films,
Lists ‘‘Militrary Police Town Patrolling’ and
“Point Control of Traffic.’

Sec VIII — Advancement on the Retired List.

Sec IX — Efficiency Reports. Rescinds Sec
IX WD 16 and cites DA circular.

Sec X — Location of USPOLAD, EUCOM,
Heidelberg.

Sec XI — Inclusion of Indemnification Clause
in Forms 6 GA for Automobile Spare Parts
Procurement.

Sec XII — Rescission of Command Direct-
ives, Amends EUCOM letter of July 22 to
give three deletions.

Sec XIII — Transportation of Alien Depend-
ents after 27 December 1948. Cites limitations
and subsequent procedure.

Sec XIV — Appointment of Warrant Officers
to the Regular Army and United States Air
Force, Cites extention of time limit.

Sec XV — Removal of Deutsche Marks from
the Berlin Area. Cites OMGUS regulation as
to DM 300 limit.

Sec XVI — Tours in Italy. Amends Sec XIII
WD 30.

Sec XVII — Reduction of Enlisted Personnel.
Cites regulations and limitations in venereal
disease infection cases. |

Sec XVIII — Recuring Reports. Lists revi-
sions in EUCOM letter AG 319.2 AGX-AGO,
“Recurring Reports Register," of May 6.

Sec XIX — Recruiting Regular Army and
Air Force. Amends Sec XIX WD 28.

Sec XX — EUCOM Multiple Adressee
Letters und Cables.

Civilian Personnel Memorandum No. 4M,
EUCOM Hq, 16 Aug. 1948. Lists; I — EUCOM
Employees Utilization Program Informations
II — Payment of Wages to Indigenous Civilian
Contract Workers; III — Amendment to CP
Memo 42 of 1948,

Food Ration Coupon Report, MG/Food/25/F,
AG 319.1 (EA), OMGUS, 17 Aug. 1948. Dis
continues report.

Issuance of Regulation Implementing Article
17, paragraph 2, of Military Government Law
No 59, “Restitution of Identifiable Property
by Ministers President (in Bremen the Presi-
dent of the Senate, AG 014.1 (LD), OMGUS,
18 Aug. 1948,

Issuance of Regulation Implementing Article
30, paragraph 3, and Article 32, paragraph 2
last sentence, of Military Government Law
No. 59, “Restitution of Identifiable Property”
by Ministers President (in Bremen the Presi-
dent of the Senate), AG 014.1 (LD), OMGUS,

18 Aug. 1948,
Authorication No. 1 to Jewish Restitution
Successor Organization, AG 010.6 (PD)

OMGUS, 18 Aug. 1948.

DEUTSCHER VERLAG