--- Page 2 ---
oO OF

me cAZe OF US Mititary GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

RETURNED ART

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

: Key MG PERSONNEL

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

OFFICE OF THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF, EUROPEAN COMMAND

EXECUTIY| Colvias Bios

FD VAS

Ses osog
Se

FIELO oOFBFICES

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

RETURNED ART—Botticelli's “Ma-
donna and Child with Singing
Angels” comes out of its travel wraps
under the watchful eyes of an armed
MP guard at the Wiesbaden Collecting
Point. The story of the return to
Germany of its masterworks from
safekeeping in the United States is
told on page 15.

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations

MILITARY GOVERNMENT —

INFORMATION

BULLETI!

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 147 November 2, 1948

and activities of Military Government Questions and Answers 2

and affiliated organizations, Nutritional Survey throughout Bizonal Area 3

Editorial Offices Immigration Reopened to the United States 5

Directors Building, Room 1050 Der M ‘ 7
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin ler Monat. (new magazine)

Tel.: 42227, 42252, 42923 New Process to Increase Insulin Production . 38
Editor H, Warner Waid Bavarian Public Forum 9
@scictant Editor Henry S. ‘Matteo West Berlin Enjoys Better Conditions with Airlift. 10
Editorial Writer Marjorie A, Yahraes ; P

“Grass-Roots’’ Information Service . 11
Mailing address: Pig ,
Information’ Bivletin The William W. Dawson Memorial Fund . 12
Control Office, OMGUS Editorial Opinion from the German Press . 13
Bern Commeny US Returns German Art . 15)
APO 742, US Army
ight-Car Building Plan Inaugurated in Bizone . 19
Correspondence in the United States rele e e °
concerning articles and distribution Occupational Activities . 20
Should be made to: Personnel Changes are Announced . 22
Reports & Analysis Branch i
Civil Affairs Division Excerpts Taken from Instructions 23
Department of the Army Official Instructions 24
Washington 25, D.C. Key MG Personnel. . «>. nf We ee ee RED

Printing and distribution of the
Magazine is handled by the Publi-
Cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)
CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH
BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

Cifically noted, is permitted with credit
; to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

--- Page 5 ---
Why are displaced persons permilted
to emigrate and Germans and expel-
Jees not?

Some expellees are eligible for
migration. Most expellees, however,
are essentially a part of the German
population by law and legally are in
their homeland, DP’'s are unsettled and
should be take care of before others.
(OMGWB). (Also see page 5).

* * *

Is it true that Americans are gaining
control of German industry by invest-
ments in German concerns?

Absolutely not: there are laws that
strictly forbid this practice, and any-
one attempting to do so will be
punished. Secretary of State Marshall
recently made a statement to the
effect that not one percent of any
stock in any industry in Germany has
been taken over by an American firm,
(OMGWB)

* * *
Why does Military Government insist
that police functions be administered
by state police rather than local police?

As a matter of fact, Military Govern-
ment does not insist that police func-
tions be administered by state police
rather than local police. Quite the
contrary is provided by MG Regula-
tions. concerning the police.

One of the major emphases of Mili-
tary Government policy is upon the
decentralization of the police. To
achieve decentralization it is provided
that appropriate German governmental
authorities will be required to establish
and maintain police forces in towns of
5,000 population or more. Towns of
less than 5,000 population may, if it is
so elected, also maintain a police force.
These community police forces are
completely under the administrative
responsibility, control and _ super-
vision of the community officials, i. e.
the mayor and the police chief.

The state police are responsible for
safety and order in rural areas and in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

QUESTIONS

ana. ANSWERS

towns of less than 5,000 population
which have not established police
forces of their own. The state police
organization is under the administra-
tive control of the state government,
specifically under the ministry of the
interior. The state police do not have
any jurisdiction within the area of a
community which has established its
own police, unless specifically re-
quested by the governing officials in
that community to furnish assistance.

Another aspect of MG policy which
might be emphasized is the deconcen-
tration of police power, particularly
in connection with functions formerly
carried on by the administrative po-
lice (Verwaltungspolizei). These func-
tions relate to housing, building,
forest, economics, railroads and many
other aspects of government. Under
MG policy this type of administrative
function has been separated from the
executive police and assigned to ap-
propriate branches of the civil
government.

The police are restricted to the func-
tion of maintaining safety and order
and the detection and prevention of
crime. (OMGWB)

* * *
Why are Germans not permitted to
hunt?

At the end of hostilities it was
necessary for the Allies to issue
decrees forbidding any German to pos-
sess firearms of any discription. These
regulations are still in effect and will
remain in effect, probably, until a
peace treaty is signed. However, hunt-
ing without firearms is not forbidden.
Farmers whose crops are suffering
from boar damage may construct pig
traps to kill the boar. (OMGWB)

* * *
Why are the Allies stripping Germany
of her forests and shipping the lumber
abroad?

It is to the interests of Military
Government that Germany's forests be
managed in an efficient, non-destruc-
tive manner, both to sustain the
occupation and to further the revival
of the German economy. While the

2

The Information Bulletin is in-
auguraling a regular _ section
devoted to questions and answers |
on problems dealing with Military _
Government in Germany. Quest-
ions, especially those addressed —
by Germans to occupational per-
sonnel, may be sent ‘to the |
Editor and the competent authorit:
on the subject will be requested
to prepare the reply. The best
and most repeated questions and
answers will be published.

Recently the Field Relations
Division, OMG Wuerttemberg- |
Baden, compiled a_ booklet of
several hundred questions put to |
the MGO’s of that state and the
answers prepared for them. Other
MG offices have prepared similar
compilations. Excerpts from tht
papers also will be used in this
section, \

The questions must be confined
to the sphere of US Military
Government in Germany.
tions concerning military acti
ties, international relations, se
rity matters and other subjects —
not involving MG operations ¢
not be considered in this se

present cutting program is dip
into the reserves of old timber,
not endangering the forests.
actual cut is at present 180 per
the annual growth. Replanting
and cut over areas is a part
MG program.

Germany lumber production to
goes for three purposes: appro: I
nine percent of the total cut
used for occupational requi
and for the crating of re
items; five and a half percent
lumber export program to Gi
tain and Holland, for which foo
other items are shipped back to!
many; and about 85'/: percent
to the German economy. The
are neither destroying nor It
Germany of her forests and
(OMGWB)

--- Page 6 ---
¢

ERMANS are beginning to show
G physical improvement in the bi-
zonal area this year, but this improved
state of nutrition in the urban po-
pulation is still below that required
for full capacity to work,

This discovery, along with equally per-
tinent nutritional-physical facts about
western Germans, has been announced
by Secretary of the Army Royall’s
Special Commission to study nutrition
in bizonal Germany. Members of the
Commission included two specialists
from Great Britain und six from the
United States,

They examined many persons in all
phases of society and compared their
conditions of work and living, par-
ticularly in urban and_ industrial
areas, In addition, the Commission
checked its findings with data col-
lected by nutrition survey teams
since 1945, with reports from other
agencies of Military Government and
with the opinions of German scientists,
physicians and public health au-
thorities,

As the Commission made its study
in city and country it found that
undernourishment is not evenly dis-

TYROUGHOUT BIZ

tributed. Farmers and rural dwellers
are .for the most part as well
nourished. as before the war and
consequently have full capacity to
work, It is those in the large cities
and industrial areas who are too
often suffering from lack» of food.
The present state of undernourish-
ment is shown first of all by a loss
of weight particularly among adults,
who average 14 to 20 pounds below
the acceptable physiologic standards.
German data indicating greater losses
are based on standards which cannot
be accepted. With these losses of
weight there is a corresponding loss
of strength and vigor accompanied by
a moderate amount of mild anemia;
some muscular wasting, reflecting
loss of body substance and account-
ing for some loss of strength; a
lowered rate of body metabolism; a
lowered basal pulse rate, body tem-
perature and blood pressure; and a
variable degree of apathy, irritability,
inattention and lack of concentration.

HERE ARE, however, many factors
on the favorable side, The Com-
mission found no significant amount
of specific vitamin or mineral de-

ONAL AREA OF GERMANY

ficiency disease, except rickets.
Rickets. exists not because of lack of
vitamin D, but primarily because
available supplies have not been dis-
tributed and used properly,

The average body weights of chil-
dren of pre-school and school ages
on the whole are good, They are not
appreciably below the prewar levels
and are almost the same as the
standards for American children, on
the basis of weight in relation to
age and height. These averages are
based on weighings of all school
children in the Bizonal Area of Ger-
many and therefore include a large
number from rural areas, However,
children in urban areas show that
they are 3 to 13 pounds underweight,
the deficit being most marked in
children of 9 to 14 years,

The general mortality rate, too, has
shown no tendency to rise in the
past two years, except in Berlin
where it has been exceptionally high,
but now is falling. It compares favor-
ably with that of England and Wales
and is only slightly higher than in
the United States during the same
period. The infant mortality rate

Members of the Special Commission
watch a German doctor in the Frank-
furt City Hospital determine the
amount of food value in the blood.
In the group are (left to right): Dr.
John B. Youmans, dean of the College
of Medicine, University of Illinois;
Capt. Denver T. Allen of the Nutrition
Branch, Surgeon General's Office, US
Army; Col. William H. Sebrell, direc-
tor of the Experimental Biology and
Medical Institute, US Public Health
Service; Capt. A. R. Behnke (USN) of
the Naval Research Institute, and
Prof. E. J. Cowell of the University
of London (photo by US Army Signal
Corps). Commission members not in
photograph were Dr. Leonard A.
Scheele, surgeon general, US Public
Health Service; Maj. Gen. Raymond
W. Bliss, surgeon general, US Army;
Sir Jack Drumond, adviser CCG(BE).

--- Page 7 ---
which, while higher than prewar, was
considerably lower in 1947 than 1946,
except in Berlin. The birth rate is
satisfactory, though somewhat below
the exceptionally high prewar rate.

In western Germany there have
been no serious epidemics nor any
significant increase in infectious
diseases other than tuberculosis. In
their study of tuberculosis the Com-
mission made use of the report of the
britisch Foreign Office "Tuberculosis
in the British Zone of Germany” and
the US Government “Report on Tu-
berculosis in Germany (US Zone)‘*

Both reports state that the mor-

tality from this disease is declining.

after a rise during the war and in
most parts is approaching a prewar
level, though still excessive in Ber-
lin, It is approximately the same as
the present rate in Great Britain and
below prewar rates in France and
other parts of Europe.

N ITS STUDY, the Commission

was especially concerned with the
Germans’ ability to work as related
to the food they have to eat. Work,
the specialists explain in their re-
port, can be done only by the ex-
penditure of energy, and energy
comes from food or body tissues. -If
weight is to be maintained with
inadequate food, work output must
be decreased, If work output is kept
up with inadequate food, weight will
be lost until finally weakness pre-
vents any further effort.

In present-day western Germany,
a compromise has been reached in
which a loss of weight and lowered
body metabolism have made it poss-
ible to. maintain some degree of
activity on a reduced food intake,
but only at the expense of a work
output considerably below full ca-
pacity and prewar levels. It is the
combination of the loss of weight
and decreased work which permits
the appearance of a fair nutritional
state, This apparently adequate state
of nutrition is illusory, however, and
any attempt to increase work output
without a sufficient increase in food
would result only in further losses
of body weight, decreased ability to
work and porer health,

* See article ‘‘White Plague’ in Information
Bulletin, No. 139, July 13, 1948.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Additional factors contribute to the
decrease in work output. They in-
clude the time and effort spent in
searching for food; the shortage of
housing, footwear and clothing; the
shortage of raw material; and the
lack of things to buy. This condition
has been alleviated somewhat by
currency reform which brought farm
products into open sale in the cities
and stimulated more and better pro-
duction of goods,

IROM EVIDENCE the Commission

has collected in Germany and
from established scientific principles,
the requirements for rehabilitation,
Testoration of weight, strength and
normal working capacity can be set.
at 2,540 calories a person daily for

the population of the two zones,
This figure represents the caloric
value of food actually eaten and does
not take into account inevitable
wastage between retail distribution
and actual consumption. If this foog
were equitably distributed it woulg
provide the needs of all categories
of the population, including the sick,
It would meet the energy needed by
the workers for full industrial pro.
duction,

The food of the German urban
population at present comes from
many sources. Apart from the official
rations, which include a wide va-
riety of supplements for those under-
weight, the sick and the manual
workers, food is obtained in con-

(Continued on page 6)

ADULT BODY WEIGHTS
NUTRITION TEAM DATA FOR U.S. ZONE CITIES OVER 20,000

(3 MONTH MOVING AVERAGE)

8. POUNDS
45 I
WEIGnT ESSENTIAL FOR MAINTENANCE OF HEALTH OF AVERAGE ADULT MAN
140
MEN
135 im —
—— i
30
WEIGNT ESSENTIAL FOR MAINTENANCE OF HEALTH OF AVERAGE ADULT WOM ie eee tenia |
12s
WOMEN
os
~ of
120
=F] SY -7 Wess
heal
ry
no
— ae
ola TeTwtaTuTaloTats totwtolalelulalulslatatslotnto|vlrlwlatulslatalgtotnto
1946 1947 1948 ——

The weights (determined without shoes and outer clothing) used to construct these
curves are collected by German nutrition teams and indicate the urban population
to have, in March of this year, higher average body weights than six months ago
and essentially the same as a year ago. Major fluctuations are those one would
normally expect following the harvest and decline of stored stocks, and are quite
independent of official ration levels.

Trends over the past two years indicate very little sustained decrease in weights.
Average prewar body weights were very likely higher than present but most of the
decline seems to have occurred during the war or in the first few months of the
occupation.

Cities 20,000 and over represent about 29 percent of the population of the US Zone
(excluding Bremen). Of this population about 0.7 percent of the males and 0.3 percent
of the females were sampled in determining the weights indicated in this chart.
Persons to be weighed were selected at random from ration card files. However,
persons who actually reported for weighings included a slightly higher than average
percent of workers.

Note: The seasonal decline in adult body weights which occurred in the spring
of 1946 and 1947 has not occurred this year. Data now available indicate that body
weights have remained stable during the second quarter of 1948. The improvement
in the food situation this summer will probably be reflected in weight increases when
data becomes available. (Source: Public Health Branch, CAD, OMGUS)

4 NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
IMMIGRATION

OPENED To THE UNITED STATES

by James S. Sutterlin, US Vice Consul, Frankfurt

eo THE FIRST TIME since 1941
it is possible for an ordinary
resident of Germany or Austria with-
out close relatives in the United
States to register on a waiting list
as a prospective immigrant to
America.

One need not be a German or
Austrian national to register in these
countries. If a British subject, for
example, is resident there, he may
also fill out a registration form and,
if born in Great Britain, his name
will be placed on the British quota
waiting list.

The resumption of regular immi-
gration is a result of the Displaced
Persons Act which Congress passed on
June 19. Section 12, which directs that
general consular activities in Ger-
many and Austria be immediately
resumed in order that German and
Austrian quotas shall be available for
applicants pursuant to the immigration
laws. These laws provide a German
quota of 25,957 per year with an
additional 1,413 being alotted annually
to Austria.

ROM THE TIME these numbers

were established in 1934 until the
present time, the German annual
quota has never been filled, although
on the other hand the quota has
never been closed—even during the
war. Throughout all the time of
hostilities Germans and Austrians
Tesiding outside of their homelands
Continued to go to America as regular
immigrants. Thus many refugees from
the Nazi regime found a new home
in a free land.

Moreover, since the postwar re-
Opening of American consular offices
in Germany and Austria, the quotas
have been used for persons entitled

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

to preference visas—that is, parents
of American citizens, husbands
of American women, skilled agri-
culturalists, and wives and unmarried
minor children of legal residents of
the United States. German and
Austrian girls entering the United
States as fiancees have also used up
portions of the quotas. All together,
some 15,000 Germans have entered
the United States on immigrant visas
since the end of hostilities.

Unfortunately for the thousands
of Germans and Austrians now desir-
ing to immigrate, the quota numbers
which have not been accumulating.
Any of the 27,370 numbers granted
under our quota system which are not
used within a fiscal year are lost and
cannot be utilized later. Thus the
maximum number of German and
Austrian born immigrants who can
enter America this fiscal year—or any
fiscal year—is 27,370.

N REALITY, because of another
provision of the Displaced Persons

Act, only about half this many native-
born Germans and Austrians will
enter America during 1949 and 1950.
The same Section 12 which directs
the resumption of regular immigration
from Austria and Germany also
directs that for the next two years
50 percent of the German and Austrian
quotas be used for persons of German
ethnic origin who were born in Po-
land, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Ru-
mania or Yugoslavia and who on
July 19, 1948 were residing in Ger-
many or Austria.

This is a radical departure from
previous American immigration laws.
In nearly every other instance, a pro-
spective immigrant to the United
States must obtain a quota number

5

from the quota of the country in
which he was born regardless of his
nationality present or past. Ordinarily,
a person born in Czechoslovakia who
has resided most of his life in Austria
and who indeed possesses Austrian
nationality must nevertheless travel
to America under the Czech quota.
Section 12 puts this provision of the
Immigration Act of 1924 aside and for
a period of two years permits ethnic
Germans, more usually called Volks-
deutsche, to travel to America under
the German and Austrian quotas,
even though they were not actually
born in Germany or Austria,

S SOON AS the provisions of the

Displaced Persons Bill were
known, the Department of State di-
rected that American consular offices
in Germany and Austria make pre-
parations to accept registration for
immigration to the United States, A
date was established and kept secret
upon which the announcement was
to be made that residents of Germany
and Austria could once again apply
for a place on the waiting list of
persons desiring to travel to America
for permanent residence.

On Sept. 17, Mr. Marshall M, Vance,
supervisory consul general for Ger-
many, held a press conference in
Frankfurt and made public the details
of the new program. It was carefully
announced that if a resident of Ger-
many or Austria desired to apply for
immigration, he must write a letter
of request to the appropriate
American consular office, enclosing in
his letter a stamped self-addressed
envelope in which a blank registrat-
ion form could be returned to him.

In spite of these explicit instruct-
ions, thousands of would-be im-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
migrants began to gather early on
the morning of Monday, Sept. 20,
before the doors of the consulates in
Germany and Austria. Interest in im-
migration proved intense, and during

the first week approximately 150,000 —

written requests for registration forms
were received in the six offices in
Germany and the two offices in
Austria. This was no surprise to con-
sular officers, however, who pro-
vidently had had 2,000,000 registration
forms printed.

HE QUESTION is often asked

“What chance has one of the
thousands of persons who have
written in for registration forms to
travel to the United States within the
foreseeable future?" The answer is
“That depends.”

If he was not among the first to
have returned his completed registrat-
ion form, then he has a long wait,
perhaps a matter of years. Approxi-
mately 25 percent of the several
thousand mailed requests to the
American Consulate in Stuttgart for
registration forms are not being con-
sidered because they failed to con-
form with specified procedure. The
commonest mistake has been failure
to enclose with the request for re-
gistration a self-addressed, stamped
envelope in which the registration
form can be returned to the intending
immigrant.

If a person submits an incorrect re-
quest he must then resubmit it in the
proper manner. If he has no one
willing to pay the cost of his trans-
portation, he will have to wait until
the time when the Deutsche mark can
be used to purchase transportation;
and if he cannot find someone who
will be answerable for his support
in the United States, or if he is
seriously unsound either in body or
mind, or if he has been or is a
member of a movement hostile to the
United States governement, he might
as well give up any thought of im-
migration to the United States.

On the other hand, if he was among
the first to return a completed re-
gistration form by mail to the appro-
priate consular office, ifhe has friends
or relatives in the United States who
are willing to vouch for his support

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and who are in addition willing to
finance his journey, if he is sound in
body and mind, and if he is not con-
sidered a security threat to the well-
being of the United States and its
people, his chances are good for be-
ginning a new life in America.

(Continued from Page 4)
Nutritional Survey

siderable quantities by barter, by
purchases in the black market, from
gift parcels and from gardens—the
number of which has increased con-
siderably during the past year. It is
extremely difficult to obtain reliably
information on the amount of food
obtained through these channels.
Possibly the quantity of food reaching
the German urban consumers from
these sources is larger than it is
officially estimated to be.

MG officials have, however, de-
termined the official food allotments
for the rest of this year. Ration scales
for October, November and December
have been set, Calories per day are
the same as for September: 1,845 for
the normal consumer, Workers’ and
expectant and nursing mothers’ supp-
lements remain about the same, with
the supplementary cereal and sub-
stitute coffee ration combined as in
the regular ration. The moderately
heavy workers’ supplementary ration
of fat is reduced to slightly less than
two ounces (50 grams) as originally
planned for September.

This gives an average ration of
approximately 2,100 calories which,
when added to the foods off the
ration estimated at about 350 calories,
comes to approximately 2,450 calories,
per capita daily.

UT AT THIS LEVEL, the Com-
mission reports rehabilitation
and good industrial output cannot be
achieved, Weight, physical activity
and industrial production will be pro-
portionately less at any lovel lower.
Than that represented by 2,540 ca-
lories a person daily from food
actually eaten,
And it is not enough that the
problem of German nutrition be con-

6

sidered solely from the standpoint
of calories. A suitable supply of
protein and fat should. be assured,
and of the protein, a proportion shoulq
be supplied as food of animal origin,
While an average consumption of
2,540 calories a person composed
largely of cereals and potatoes will
provide adequate total protein, the
favorable effect on morale and in-
dustrial production of increased sup-
plies of meat and fat cannot be over-
estimated. It is of far greater import-
ance than the mere caloric content,

Under existing conditions no
attempt to secure adequate work
output by providing special rations
for particular groups will be fully
successful, An adequate intake of
food for the entire population must
be provided, Such a satisfactory nu-
trition for all requires that an ade-
quate ‘supply of food be distributed
properly. No rationing system can
be operated wholly satisfactorily
unless it is supplemented by at least
one unrestricted, cheap and accept-
able kind of energy food,

Bread or potatoes will serve this
function but bread is the choice since
it provides protein as well as calories.
When people can buy unlimited
quantities of either cheap bread or
potatoes or both, caloric problems
disappear. Derationing of one of these
commodities, the Commission believes,
is a primary objective in securing an
adequate nutrition for the German
population.

* * *

Potato Rationing Ended

The discontinuance of potato ration-
ing in the Bizone, recently announced
by the Bipartite Food, Agriculture
and Forestry Group, was done follow-
ing recommendations made by the
US-UK team of nutrition experts

Derationing was made possible by
this year's exceptionally large potato
crop, which is estimated to be at
least 60 percent greater than last
year's. Although rationing controls
have been lifted at the consumer
level, bipartite officials pointed out
that in order to safeguard fully this
year's harvest, all normal controls
will still be retained at the farm and
marked distribution level.

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 10 ---
NEW German-language maga-
zine, with a bright red cover and
112-pages of easily readable German
latin type, has appeared on the news-

stand and in the bookstores of
western Germany and Berlin. Its con-
servative, well-designed format ‘re-
sembles that of Harpers magazine in
the United States.

The magazine is Der Monat (The
Month), “an international review for
Politics and culture,” sponsored by
the Information Services Division,
OMGUS. It is edited by Mr. Melvin
J. Lasky with the collaboration of

ISD's Political Information Branch, in
Berlin,

Simultaneously in Munich, Frank-
furt, Hamburg and, despite the
blockade, Berlin, it went on sale
during the first week of October.
Within a few days after distribution
Of the first issue of 60,000 copies, its
literary success was assured. Half a

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

dozen cities reported a complete sell-
out and demanded a reprint.

HIS RESPONSE, according to the

editors, was justification of their
original prospectus which suggested
that ‘Germany must take her place
culturally and intellectually among
the western nations,’ and that there
would be a genuine hunger for an
international review in which the
major questions of the day could be

The cover page is reproduced above.
Translation from the German is as
follows:

The Month
An International Magazine for Politics
and International Life
Civilization on Trial
Ways to a World State . . . . Bertrand Russell
After the Atom Bomb... .. Franz Borkenau
The West on Trial....... Arnold'Toynbee
Soviet Russia without Propaganda
Thomas Wolfe (1900—1938)
No. 1
ist Year, October 1948, Price 30 cents

z

discussed by writers and thinkers on
a free non-national basis.

In fact, one. reaction to Der Monat
was that “this magazine is a kind of
Marshall Plan in the field of culture
—once again American initiative and
support working together with all the
recovery-bent forces in the Old
World...”

The first issue featured a sym-
posium of three articles on the
question, “Civilization on Trial." This
symposium was widely reviewed in
the German press, and many news-
papers and magazines reprinted ex-
cerpts.

In the first of these articles, “Ways
to a World State," Bertrand Russell
analyzed the prospects of achieving
a world state in terms of the inter-
national tensions, in a frank and
crisply written statement of the an-
tagonisms between democracy and
totalitarianism. At the time, Lord
Russell was visiting Berlin and was
guest at a reception given by the
magazine's staff in his honor.

In the second article, “After the
Atom Bomb,” Franz Borkenau, pro-
minent German scholar of Marburg,
Hesse, interpreted the presentday
conflict as a reflection of an age-old
contest between western liberty and
eastern authoritarism. Arnold Toyn- ”
bee, whose books have become best-
sellers in Great Britain and ‘the United
States, summarized his ideas in a
third article.

N ANTHOLOGY which commem-

orated the tenth anniversary of
the death of Thomas Wolfe, was also
popularly received. It included a short
story by the famous American
novelist whose death in 1938 shocked
German readers following the literary
success of his first novel “Look Home-
ward, Angel!” in Germany, Also in
the anthology were an excerpt from
his autobiography, a previously un-
published letter to a friend, a critical
evaluation by Alfred Kazin, and a
long personal account of Wolfe's
visits to Germany by his friend and
publisher H. M. Ledig-Rowohlt.

Among other contributors were the
French writer Jean-Paul Sartre, the
novelist and journalist Arthur Koest-
ler, the American correspondent Drew

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Middleton who gave a detailed and
comprehensive report on his im-
pressions in the Soviet Union, the
British poet Stephen Spender with his
“Visit to Picasso," Rebecca West,
James Agee... discussing a variety
of themes ranging from politics and
international affairs to literature, film
and theater.

“A magnificent magazine,” wrote
the Frankfurter Neue Presse. “It
offers an excellent cross-section of
the intellectual life in the western
world,” commented the Berlin Tages-
spiegel. But from the Soviet occupied
areas came the complaint: ‘Das fehlte
uns noch! (This is all we needed),”
and the magazine was denounced by
the official Soviet newspaper Taeg-

liche Rundschau as
poison.”

“intellectual

ER MONAT,

according to its
prospectus, is intended to
offer the German reading public
an important link with the out-
side world of ideas and contro-
versy, exposing the readers to inter-
national influences, making the rec-
ord of both American and Euro-
pean political and cultural achieve-
ment understandable and impressive,
clarifying the basis issue of the day
which divide the free world from the
totalitarian state.
“It should not be taken as a voice
of any particular officialdom but
should be read and respected as a

spokesman for western ideals. De;
Monat will print a wide variety of
political and cultural opinion cop.
sistent with the principles of demo.
cracy and a free, unregimented cy}.
ture.”

Der Monat is the fifth German.
language periodical published by the
US Military Government for Germans,
Die Neue Zeitung (The New News.
paper), which marked its third anni.
versary on Oct. 19, is a semi-weekly
zone-wide newspaper. Heute (Today)
is a semi-monthly pictorial magazine,
Neue Auslese (New Selections), a
monthly, and Die Amerikanische
Rundschau (The American Review),
a bimonthly, present reprints from
non-German sources.

New Process to Increase Insulin Production

A new Gtrman-discovered process
which will help alleviate the present
world-wide insulin shortage has been
brought to light by the Public Health
Branch, CAD, OMGUS. Announce-
ment of the process has been made
by Dr. Brock Chisholm, director-
general of the World Health Or-
ganization.

Developed by Dr. Fr. Lindner of the

Biochemical Laboratory of the Farb- -

werke Hoechst at Frankfurt, the new
discovery makes it possible to pre-
serve insulin-yielding animal pancreas
glands without the need for the usual
low temperature refrigeration.Pancreas
glands are at present the only source
of insulin, a hormone of vital import-
ance for diabetics in particular.

The Lindner process is expected to
lead to a considerable increase in
world production of insulin because
it will greatly simplify the collection
of glands from slaughter houses. The
present shortage of insulin is due not
so much to a shortage of pancreas as
to the failure to collect and treat all
the glands obtained from slaughter
houses.

In a letter addressed to the national
health authorities of all state members
of the World Health Organization,
Dr. Chisholm enclosed a copy of the
Lindner report, and urged that the
new method be put into operation.

He also asked countries which do not
produce insulin to place their own

INFORMATION BULLETIN

supplies of unused pancreas glands
at the disposal of insulin-producing
countries in order to help solve the
acute supply problem.

Application of the new process by
the Farbwerke Hoechst is reported by
Dr. Lindner to have resulted in doubl-
ing the number of slaughter houses
from which the necessary pancreas
glands for the production of insulin
were obtained in Germany. Con-
sequently, the insulin supply for Ger-
man diabetics, he said, was able to be
improved substantially. With previous
methods the pancreas glands lose
their insulin content rapidly unless
processed without delay or refrigerat-
ed at from —20 to —30 degrees
Centigrade. Now, however, with
a comparatively simple treatment by
which the glands are chemically de-
hydrated they can be stored or trans-
ported for several days at room tem-
perature without damage. One of the
advantages of this new method is that
since it is simple and safe, it can be
applied without special training by
the personnel of slaughter houses.

The World Health Organization's
sponsorship of this new process stems
from the results of a world-wide
survey of insulin supply and demand
begun during the life of the Interim
Commission of the organization and
being continued at present on a de-
cision of the recent First World Health

8

Assembly. This survey has shown that
a large number of countries are hav-
ing difficulties in supplying them-
selves with the insulin they require
while demand is increasing.

It is estimated on the basis of re-
ports received from 46 countries that
over a ten-year period there may be
an annual deficit of nearly 400,000,000
international units of insulin unless
production is increased. This deficit,
it is believed, can by only partly
covered by the surplus production of
the United States, which alone has
more than 1,000,000 diabetic persons.

Claims Cases Permitted

A change in the US Military
Government policy now permits local
labor courts to accept and decide
cases involving monetary claims
against the German government,
provided that the cause of action
occurred after May 8, 1945, This
change permits employes of the
German government at all levels to
seek redress of grievances.

Records Removed
The records of the Precious Metals
Department of the formér Reichsbank
at Berlin have been transferred to
the Bank of the German States, where -
they are to be held on behalf of US
Military Government.

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
IGHT STAFF executives of the

Office of Military Government
for Bavaria voluntarily put themsel-
ves “on the spot” recently before
1800 Germans, crowding a Coburg
auditorium in a public forum ad-
mitting all questions on any subject.
Along with local German officials,
the Americans took questions from
school teachers and housewives,
businessmen and refugees, that de-
monstrates the Germans were en-
thusiastic about the democratic prin-
ciple of holding government officials
accountable to the people.

Delivered in an objective spirit,
the questions challenged American
and German officials alike and
tanged from subjects of international
travel for Germans to the methods
of compensating housewives for re-
quisitioned property.

A refugee school teacher asked
what Americans, as signatories of
the Potsdam Agreement, were doing
to help resettle refuges. Mr. Albert
C. Schweizer, head of OMGB Civil
Administration Division, cited MG
investigations to provide more hous-
ing space, its insistence on the fair
Consideration of competent refugees
for governmental appointments, and
Negotiations now being carried on to
Tesettle some of Bavaria’s homeless

Pane! of MG and German officials conducts the public forum at Coburg.
In the center is Mr, Clarence M. Bolds, OMGB deputy director. Third
person to left of Mr, Bolds is Mayor Walter Langer who acted as
moderator. Second to right of Mr. Bolds is Mr. Albert Schweizer, head
of OMGB Civil Administration Division.

newcomers in other less crowded
states of western Germany.

An earnest young secretary drew
a storm of applause when she asked
why Military Government had licensed
a newspaper in Coburg which did not
represent the views of the majority
of the people..Mr. C. C. Wright of
the Information Services Division
replied that “freedom of the press”
does not require editorial policies
which necessarily reflect the opinion
of the people, but give the opinion of
the editor.

Mr. Wright drew an_ enthusiastic
ovation when he said he hoped that
a new newspaper could be licensed
soon in Coburg, so that dissatisfied
persons could change. The news-
paper's editor, whose policies are not
always popular in the city, arose
from the first row to state that he
welcomed competition from a second
newspaper.

O A QUESTION on when the
Soviet-American Zone border
will be opened free for commerce, Mr.
Clarence M. Bolds, OMGB deputy
director, who headed the American
delegation,’ said that question would
have to be asked of the Russians.
“America has always favored free
trade between all zones, as prescribed
in the Potsdam Agreement,” he stated.

(left) Part of audience crowded in the
hall's organ loft. (right) Chairman of
Coburg Chamber of Commerce asks
when the Russian-American zone
border would be opened for free
trade.

(photos by Mr. L. S. Partegas for PIO, OMGB)

“The US Government has chosen to
live up to its agreement. We are
sorry that we cannot control the
actions of other agreeing parties,”

Mayor Walter Langer came under
fire when he was asked why he had
called a secret meeting of the city
council recently and had not yet
divulged the subject. Langer said he
wanted to discuss with the council
tentative plans for a new housing
project.

Mr. Schweizer pointed out that he
didn't know the situation and did
not wish to criticize the mayor, but
that in principle, discussion of pending
legislation should be public so that
the people are informed on new bills
during the formative stages and not
only after they become law. He cited
US congressional committee hearings
as an example of this,

A local newspaper reporter charged
the mayor with ordering subordinates

--- Page 13 ---
to give no information to the press
except through his office. Langer
replied that official’ news was
published in the city’s official bulletin.
Questions and answers continued
thick and fast for three hours before
the mayor concluded the meeting.

The meeting was a climax to the
program of public forums organized
by Mr. Sanford P. Sussell, MG officer
in the Coburg district. Most com-
munities in that area now hold town
meetings regularly without MG sup-
port, at which local official. are called

to account for their activities, ang
charged with carrying out civic
projects voted on by the people,

“The meetings are now a regular
part of community life and the mayors
who oppose them are unpopular,”
Mr. Sussell said.

West Berlin Enjoys Better Conditions with Airlift

The following letter was written by
a Berlin industrial plant executive to
a newspaper friend in Wuerttemberg-
Baden.’ It has been published in
several official weekly  gazettes
(Amtsblattes) of the county adminis-
trations in Wuerttemberg-Baden. The
translation was provided the Infor-
mation Bulletin by the Field Relations
Divison, OMGWB.

You know yourself with what
reluctance I took this position here
in Berlin, the city of ruins, but in
these days I have learned to under-
stand the nature of the Berliners. It's
now midnight; the sky is dark blue
(since the blockade there is only good
weather at night time) and every
five, three and sometime 1!/2 minutes
two red and green shining eyes
appear. Just like giant dragon-flies
the American and English planes
drone over Berlin.

Especially when the weather is
stormy there is an air of excitement
and no thought of sleep. Even so, we
greet every sound and navigation
light with happiness and thanks be-
cause we feel ourselves safe under
the protection of the Allies. I never
thought that such generous help
would be possible.

We are getting along fine; we are
receiving, thanks to the American
transports, not only everything on
our ration cards in the best of quality
but also the promised special rations.
There -are also sufficient vegetables,
even more than in past years, so the

_ Berliners inform me. All this refers to
the western sectors; in. thé eastern
sector conditions are bad and most
people there would like to, change
positions with us, even though we
only receive electricity two hours
during the day and two hours during
the night.

Vegetables are also available in
the eastern sector, but much is spoiled

INFORMATION BULLETIN

because few purchasers can afford to
pay the high prices. Instead of meat
they have salted fish, for foodstuffs
only grit and dark noodles, no fresh
or dry potatoes. The people are also

_ complaining there about the way the

bread is made. Still there are some
who criticize that the children of the
western sectors do not receive fresh
milk. The American powdered milk
does just as well, Mrs. R. who now
has a baby, tells me.

The people of the western sectors
are now also well supplied with
medicines; Marshal Sokolowsky prob-
ably did not think that his blockade
would boomerang. The delivery of
medicine from the eastern to the
western sectors was stopped by order
of the Russians. Now most of the
medicine comes from the western
zones by the airlift and people in the
western sectors are better supplied
than in former times, whereas in the
eastern sector there is a great shortage
of medicines.

The attitude of the Berliners is
quite exemplary. This aid they can
actually see and hear. In spite of
difficulties which are unavoidable, in
spite of a coal shortage which is
causing unemployment—my firm is
also suffering from this—in spite of a
money shortage and worries about
what the future will bring, the Berliners
find great consolation in the fact the
Americans are staying in Berlin.

The fact that Bevin (Ernest Bevin,
British foreign secretary) has declared
partnership with the 2!/2 million Ber-
liners, that the French will stick by
them and that all western Germany
acknowledges and assists in their
plight and is proud of the way
Berliners are conducting themselves
~—these facts sustain the Berliners in
these dark hours.

“RIAS,” an American broadcasting
station in the American sector, also

10

helps maintain a high level of morale,
The “well skilled Rias,” as the Ber.
liners call it,\.dispatches three loud.
speaker. vehicles twice daily around
the western sectors, bringing the lastest
news to news-hungry Berliners. With
much politeness and humor the young
broadcasters are on their way. They
always find a large crowd of persons
waiting for them, regardless of the .
weather.

The well known Berlin humor is not
missing—they call the planes “raisin
bombers” since they bring them not
only flour but also sometimes raisins,

Communications Body

A Provisional Posts and Telecom-
munications Commission’ (PROCOM)
consisting of a representative of the
US, British, and French military go-
vernments was established recently
to act upon international communi-
cations matters affecting the three
western areas of control, and upon
interzonal matters between the three
western zones and the Soviet Zone
and Berlin.

After setting up terms of reference,
the first official act of the body was
to notify the Universal Postal Union
and the International Telecommuni-
cations Union, international coordinat-
ing bodies for communications mat-
ters, that until activities of the Allied
Control Authority are resumed
PROCOM will deal on a unified basis
with postal and telecommunications
matters which affect the three areas
of control.

Establishment of PROCOM will re-
store to the three western zones and
western sectors of Berlin a sound
basis upon which to conduct inter
national communications business for
the first time since the suspension of
quadripartite meetings in March 1948.

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
ORE THAN a year ago OMGWB

observed that a great many
Germans were not being informed
of what the United States is doing to
improve conditions among the German
people. In talking to Swabian farmers,
it was discovered that 90 percent of
them knew little or nothing
about the Marshall Plan—some
had-not even heard of the pro-
gram—and few knew that a
large portion of the flour and
other foodstuffs consumed by
Germans came from the United
States or was bought with US
dollars.

This could be attributed
partly to the relatively small
circulation of newspapers and
other publications (total news-
paper circulation in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, which has a popu-
lation of approximately 3,850,000
is 855,000 or one paper to every
four or five persons) and partly
lo the scarcity of radios, It
was evident that the farmers
and inhabitants of remote vil-
lages were not being well in-
formed.

In casting about for some
means of spreading information
of this nature, OMGWB's Field Relat-
ions Division, headed by Mr, Eugene
P. Walters, decided upon the official
county gazette (Amtsblatt) as the ideal
medium to accomplish this, Published
weekly by the county president (Land-
tat) in four and eight-page editions
alternately, it is distributed to the
People, to business organization, and
is posted on bulletin boards in every
Official office in the county.

HIS GAZETTE contains official in-
formation and instructions, var-
ious local news items, and announce-
ments of theater programs and special
events in the county. In many places

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

notices.

this gazette is the only reading ma-
terial the people have, and it is
eagerly awaited and religiously read.

The Field Relations Division was
the logical organization to handle
such a program, since that division
controls and supervises the Military

Residents of Pforzheim stop before a public
bulletin board to read the latest news and

Government offices (formerly Liaison
and Security offices) in the 29 coun-
ties of Wuerttemberg-Baden, where
the gazettes are published. A pro-
cedure was set up in the Reorienta-
tion Branch of this division, under the
direction of Mr. William Martin, for
dispensing this information, and at
the present time two or three articles
a week are prepared for publication.

Articles are selected from German
and American newspapers, from MG
publications and from various other
sources. Special care is taken in the
preparation of articles which describe
allocations or deliveries under the

11

(photo by FRD, OMGWB)

Marshall Plan or food imports to give
the value of goods in terms of tons
or trainloads or shiploads rather than
in terms of dollars, since it is more
difficult to construe such programs of
aid so described as being advan-
tageous and profitable to the United
States.

The articles are cleared by the
functional divisions of OMGWB
and are then sent out to the
29 MGO's in the counties.
The MG officer in each county
makes the local arrangements
for publishing the articles,

The articles are generally

factual in nature and _ not
strictly news items; for ex-
ample, here are three items

distributed for publication:
* * *

A Million Porkers in View

The ERP will supply the Bi-
zone with 280,000 tons of
animal feed, mainly corn, as
well as 50,000 tons of fish meal
for the fattening of pigs. Accord-
ing to figures compiled by Mi-
litary Government officials,
approximately one million well-
fattened pigs will go to the
slaughter houses next year.”

* * *

Currency Reform

The population of Schleswig-Hol-
stein has paid DM 3,500 000 into sav-
ings accounts since the currency re-
form, which is a good indication of
the people’s confidence in the new
money, according to bank officials.

* * *

Food Imports

Food imports to the Bizonal Area
in July totaled 628,032 tons, which
means that for every man, woman and

(Continued on page 12)

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 15 ---
REATION of the
Dawson Memorial Fund “for the
purpose of giving scholarships for
the promotion of understanding and
appreciation between the citizens of
the United States and Germany” was

William W.

announced recently by President
Winfred G, Leutner of Western
Reserve University, who said $13,362
had already been donated to the
fund.

The fund was created on the in-
itiative of Summer Sewell, former
director of OMG Wuerttemberg-
Baden, where the late Colonel Daw-
son was director of the Regional

The William W. Dawson

Memorial Fund

Government Coordinating Office.
Colonel Dawson, who died in Stutt-
gart, Feb. 10, 1947, was on leave from
the Western Reserve School of Law,
where he had been a faculty member
since 1927,

Under the provisions of the fund,
exchange scholarships for graduate
students will be set up between
Western Reserve University and uni-
versities, colleges and teacher-training
schools in Wuerttemberg-Baden. The
scholarships will be granted to United
States citizens and to citizens of the
parts of the two former German states
in the US Zone. The terms of study
will be for periods of one year, with
an extra year permissible.

The fund will be administered by
Western Reserve, under an agreement
that all awards, loans or gifts will
be made from the interest on the
fund, “unless the sum of $50,000 has
not been raised for the fund by June,
1950, in which case the administration
of Western Reserve University be
empowered to utilize the capital of
the fund on a loan or gift basis.”

A German citizen receiving the
scholarship would be nominated by
at least three of the rectors of the
institutions of higher learning jn
‘Wuerttemberg - Baden, appointed by
the minister of culture. The American
recipients would be nominated by a
committee of the Reserve faculty
appointed by the president of the
university.

Western Reserve is also empowered
to solicit contributions to the fund.

The treasurer of the William
W. Dawson Memorial Fund is
Lt. Col. E. J. Drinkett, acting
executive officer of OMG Wuert-
temberg- Baden, APO 154, US
Army, Stuttgart, to whom con-
tributions by American personnel
in Germany may be sent.

A tribune to his work, including
excerpts from the German press,
was published in the Information
Bulletin, Issue No. 84 of March 17, p
1948. The above announcement is
reprinted with permission of the
Military Government Journal.

(Continued from page’ 11)
“GRASS-ROOTS”

child in the Bizonal Area approxi-
mately 30 pounds of food were import-
ed in that month. The monthly
average since the first of the year is
slightly above 500,000 tons. About
470,000 tons of the imported food
came from the United States and
approximately 160,000 tons from other
countries.

HE MG OFFICER in each county

is given a certain amount of la-
titude in selecting and publishing
articles on local events. Some MG
officers also conduct a ‘Question and
Answer” column, reprinting questions
that were brought up and the answers
given in another MG reorientation

INFORMATION BULLETIN

activity—the town hall meeting. The
articles prepared for this program and
more elaborate “Question and Answer”
columns are also printed in licensed
newspapers.”

The overall objective of this pro-
gram is to further the reorientation of
the German people along democratic
lines. To attain this objective it is
evident that, because of the conflict
of ideologies in Europe today, Ger-
many will have to be oriented to the
West rather than the East. It is with
this latter purpose in mind that most
of the articles are selected and pu-
blished. To see that factual infor-

* See “Questions and Answers’ Section,
page 2, this issue; also article “Town
Meetings“ in Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 140, July 27, 1948.

12

mation of what the United States is
doing in Germany gets to the people
in the community, or “grass roots”
level; to discount rumors, misrepre-
sentations and misinterpretations of
MG policies and actions; and to foster
friendship between Germany and the
United States, these are the practical,
concrete objectives of the program.

It is difficult to assess the actual
reorientation value of this project.
The county gazettes have a com
bined weekly circulation of 230,000,
which is distributed in all the large
cities and in 1,500 small towns im
Wuerttemberg-Baden. But officials —
believe that this program, in com>
junction with other reorientation
activities of Military Gouvernment im
Wuerttemberg-Baden, will prove
worthwhile.

i
NOVEMBER 2, 1948 4

--- Page 16 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

Aid and Defiance in Berlin Situation Praised

N AN ARTICLE devoted to the 100th
day of the Berlin airlift, the
Giessener Freie Presse (Giessen, Hesse)
appealed to the German West to come
to the aid of Berlin's children:

“Medical examinations indicate
that the young in Berlin have reached
a standstill in their growth and that
adults show deficiency in red blood
corpuscles, Despite all the good-will
it is not possible to deliver fresh
yvitamin-containing foodstuffs to Berlin
in sufficient measure, Canned food
may appease hunger, but does not
meet biological wants...”

“Where the threat of starvation has
failed the terrible appeal to the fear
of a mother for her child is made: a
gamble more menacing than the terror
of the Markgraf police (refers to
Soviet Sector police headed by Paul
Markgraf, ordered dismissed by the
city's Magistrat for all of Berlin). Now,
that winter is coming, it is the inescap-
able duty of West Germany to see
that... Berlin's children do not become
hostages for a Bolshevist triumph."

An article in the Schwaebische
Donau Zeitung (Ulm, Wuerttemberg-
Baden) bristled defiance of the Rus-
sians in militaristic terms. The estab-
lishment of the airlift was called “a
unique victory against Tartaric bar-
barism.”

It continued: “The Berliners will
Stand even if... some day the Russian
armored cars roll over them and over
the West. How much later we cannot
Say—maybe it will be years—but some
day they will line the streets in tat-
ters, and past them the tanks of the
Allies will take their way to the East.”
_ “It was not very long ago that an
™pudent usurpor thought he could
erect his rule over Europe in order
to threaten the whole world; but the
World pulled itself together and smash-
€d the upstart. A second attempt
Would and the same way. The Ber-
liners know that, They face the enemy
of their freedom and of human dig-
nity with a straight look into his

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

eye... In spite of lack of vitamins
political softening of the bones is
unknown in Berlin.”

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim, Wuerttemberg-Baden)
welcomed the West Powers’ action in
bringing the Berlin question before the
Security Council and said this may be
the only way to preserve peace:

“It gives the world a chance to
oppose Bolshevist striving for power
with a resolute ‘No.’ It cannot lead to
division, because world political unity
long ago proved to be an illusion. It
can, however, oppose the Moscow-
directed power bloc with a force
strong enough to prevent the outbreak
of war. This: may not be a final solu-
tion, but it is at the moment the only
means to halt Russian aggression at
the Brandenburg Gate. The West
Powers’ step is a tribute to the stand
of the Berliners.”

The Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel,
Hesse), said that the final 14-point
note of the western powers addressed
to the Soviet government clearly
demonstrates the guilt of the Russians
in the Berlin crisis.

“The Soviet Union bears the odium
of having... brought the world to
the verge of war. The peoples of
Soviet Russia and its satellite states
are not permitted to speak their mind
before being asked to deliver up new
hecatombs for a possible butchery of
nations. The free peoples must talk all
the more loudly in order to brand the

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board for the Inform-
ation Services Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
portray what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not
necessarily to give any concur-
rence to their views and opinions.

13

incendiaries of a new world confla-
gration and to shake their moral
position.”

Between Two Fronts

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg, Bavaria) said that in case
of war Germany will be a no-man’s
land between two fronts:

“There is no doubt that Western
Union will not attempt to defend the
three western zones ..., The com-
ments of the press and of professional
military men all deal with the Rhine-
Alpine line of strategy .... If a con-
flict comes, the German people will
not even have air-raid shelters ....
Germany ... is entirely a respon-
sibility of the occupation powers.”

The Offenbach Post (Offenbach,
Hesse) déscribed in two pessimistic
articles the possibility of preserving
peace, and the military situation in
Europe if war comes:

“The continental power which for
geographic reasons would have to
hold the front—France— is militarily
speaking no power at all.... The
reasons which in 1940 led to the quick
and profound military catastrophe of
France have not diminished but in-
creased....

“The United States emphasizes
armament in the air, while its in-
fantry ... would not be capable of

defending the continent .... It is
therefore not surprising that certain
circles in Washington talk of a re-
armament of western Germany; it is
indeed impossible to envisage a de-
fense of western Europe as long as
the German power vacuum exists ...
At present the military situation in
western Europe might permit a re-
conquest, but no effective defense
against an attack.”

Aid to Persecutees Lauded

The Mannheimer Morgen (Mann-
heim, Wuerttemberg-Baden) approved
of the compensation law for Nazi per-
secutees and praised the US Zone’s
Council of States (Laenderrat) which
in the last meeting of its existence

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
“met the claims of dead and surviv-
ing martyrs of the Nazi dictatorship
in modest measure.”

It found reasons for a certain
“weakness of the will to make
amends” in “the development of East
Zone politics with its new concen-
tration camps, the maltreatment of
millions of expellees from the East,
the politically not quite unimpeach-
able attitude of the Association of
Victims of Nazism and the fact that
the persecutees, due to insufficient
sifting-out of criminal elements got
into discredit in the time immediately
following the collapse ....

“As it turns out, the postponement
of the law until after currency reform
gives the persecutees the advantage
of Deutsche mark payment, instead of
an almost worthless indemnification
in Reichsmark. May that be a con-
solation to them for their long wait.”

Reply to Lippman

The Badische Neueste Nachrichten
(Karlsruhe, Wuerttemberg - Baden)
published a reply by Heinz Liepman
on the proposals of Walter Lippman,
American columnist:

“You advocate a peace treaty with
Germany. But do you believe that
the four Allies who couldn't even
agree on a currency for Berlin could
find agreement on a peace treaty?...
You advocate a withdrawal of oc-
cupation troops But will the
United States risk war with Russia
when. ‘people's democratic’ action
groups (armed by the Red Army be-
fore its withdrawal) seize power in
Berlin or the East Zone?...

“Your proposal to interrupt Mar-
shall Plan help for the western zones
would result in final economic dis-
aster, entirely apart from the evil
psychological consequences... Your
plan proves once more that one
cannot conduct realistic politics from
a distance of 3,750 miles... It pro-
poses a horse trade, which would re-
sult in the horse's death...

“Negotiations like the present, ex-
tending over a long period, are, of
course, a tragedy, but still infinitely
better than a ‘realistic’ compromise
at the expense of political morality,
which could only lead to war, as
Munich proved.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

US Free and German Party Press Compared

EINRICH KIERZEK, continuing

his series about the German
newspaperman visiting the United
States, told in Fuldaer Volkszeitung
about the US press, and touched on
the question of a party press for
Germany:

“Freedom of the press means for
the American newspaper reader noth-
ing else but his democratic right to
know everything and find out
everything.... American news-
papermen openly admit that their
press has many shortcomings.... and
they are not at all hurt if one does
not contradict them. But one thing
they'll permit nobody to deny: that
they have the freest and most in-
dependent press in the world and that
they are surpassed by nobody in
their efforts to inform their readers
completely and objectively.

“Most impressive was the first pre-
sidential election (in 1932) of Roose-
velt. Then almost the whole American
press stood against him.... However,
it carried all of his campaign speeches
in detail. Roosevelt was elected be-
cause the voters found his arguments
and promises, which the newspapers
published, more convincing than the
opposite ideas and recommendations
in the editorial part of the same
papers.... American editors are still
proud of this proof of their ob-
jectivity....

“Aside from the Communists there
is no party in the States which would
think of starting a party newspaper
for the simple reason that the
American parties know that their
voters would refuse party papers.
In Germany the situation is different.

“Here all parties unanimously de-
mand a press of their own. They don't
claim that the German newspaper
reader is less educated, not to say
less intelligent than the American.
But they explain that many political

‘questions are so complicated that the

man in the street cannot form his
own judgment....

“We share the opinion that the
party press in the American Zone
must be given a chance to reappear.
Not because we regard it as in-
dispensable, but we think that if it

14

is actually as obsolete in our country
as it is in the States it should die q
natural and not a violent death.”

Kierzek reported in another article
that the German newspapermen were
constantly being asked if there was
going to be war:

“We have been surprised that one
attaches so much importance to the
opinion of Germans... The average
American is well informed about im-
portant events in the world, and the
independence of his judgment has
surprised us more than once. It is
hardly less interesting to talk with
a man in the street or in the subway
than with influential politicians,
diplomats and journalists....

“There is undoubtedly an influential
group here which is in favor of a
‘get-still-tougher’ policy. They are
convinced that a showndown is
inevitable and want to bring it about
as soon as possible... It would take
a longer stay in the States to judge
how strong this group is....

“But that does not mean much in a
country like the United States. Here
no government can rule against the
opinion of the majority of the people.
The task of these men would then be
to convince the people. In view of
the opponents’ strength that would
not be easy. These opponents insist
that... there is a third way prom-
ising a solution without bloodshed.
They demand that the United States
should engage all its resources to
bring prosperity to western Europe,
including western Germany .... Their
argument is that financial and other
sacrifices the United States would
have to make would be many times
less than the expense of a pos-
sible war."

Personal Effects Returned

The majority of the 2,826 individual
envelopes containing personal effects
of former Dachau inmates was restor-
ed by the Foreign Exchange Deposi-
tory, OMGUS, to the countries of
the individual owners. The USSR,
Greece, Rumania and Luxembourg
have failed to send representatives to
accept the envelopes belonging to
their former citizens. ,

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
Re OF THE MOST widely-trav-
eled collections of paintings in
the world is scheduled to be back
again in its home country of Ger-
many by next spring.

For generations this collection —
scattered all over Germany during the
war, reassembled, sent to the United
States, exhibited across the nation
and now partially returned — had
been reposing quietly and safely in
the former Prussian State Museums
in Berlin. The paintings were or-
ganized by the kings of Prussia in the
17th, 18th and 19th centuries although
acquisitions were made until the end
of the war.

The museums, until they were de-
stroyed by war, comprised one of the
greatest museum complexes in the
world. They contained nearly 3,000,000
objects of art. Not all of these, of
course, were of great importance.
Many formed parts of the so-called
study collections of artifacts, from
excavations, gatherings of ethnologi-
cal material and so on.

Nevertheless, their best works com-
pared favorably with those in the
Louvre and the Vatican. They were
especially rich in materials from the
northern European countries — Hol-
land, Belgium and Germany — but
they also had great masterpieces from
the Renaissance and earlier of Italy
and France, as well as magnificent
Collections of Egyptian, Assyrian,
Oriental, Greek and Roman antiq-
Uities,

URING THE WAR Hitler believed
that to evacuate this material
Would be a sign of weakness. He in-

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

By Richard F. Howard

Deputy Chief for Cultural Restitution
Monuments, Fine Art & Archives
OMGUS

sisted that the museums keep their pre-
cious objects in Berlin up to the very
end. As early as November 1943, the
heavy air raids began to damage the
buildings, so places within the city
which were considered safe were
selected for the more important ob-
jects. During the next two years, the
group of eleven buildings was repeat-
edly hit by high explosives and by
fire bombs and on March 11, 1945, one
of the vaults in which many precious
objects were kept in the so-called Old
Mint Building, was destroyed by a
high explosive bomb which had re-
mained dormant in the masonry for
some time. Finally it was decided to
evacuate as much as possible to places
of safekeeping outside the city.

The staff of the museum worked
steadily day and night for about two
months, most of the time under fire
from aircraft, and moved the vast
wealth of the museums to mines and
other repositories in the country. One
of the biggest repositories was the
Merkers mine in Thuringia, where

Arrival of the art at the Wiesbaden
Collecting Point is shown in the
above photographs. (left) Comdr. Keith
Merrill, in charge of the transporta-
tion, checks each crate. (center) Armed
MP’s guard the transfer. (right) A
case of paintings is moved into the
collecting point with great care.

15

most of the pictures were placed.
Vast quantities of other objects went
to Grasleben near Helmstedt and a
number of other places.

Because of Hitler's unrealistic pol-
icy of providing late and haphazard
protection, more than 350,000 objects,
including a number of very impor-
tant ones, were destroyed. Part of
this destruction occurred after the
occupation of Berlin when careless
and curious people set the interior of ©
the anti-aircraft tower in the Fried-
richshain on fire, About 1,500,000 ob-
jects remained in Berlin, and although
in complete confusion, they were safe.

ETWEEN the occupation of Ber-

lin and May 1946, however, the
Soviet Trophy Commission systemati-
cally removed some 800,000 or
900,000 of these objects.

Of those which were evacuated
westward the British authorities re-
covered from Grasleben and else-
where almost 70,000. These objects,
consisting mostly of ethnological
items and prints and drawings, are
now safe in the Celle Castle, north of
Brunswick in the British Zone. The
task of making complete inventories
and caring for these objects, which
were packed in hundreds of boxes,
has occupied the British MFA&A
officers for the past three years and
represents a great responsibility which
they are willingly undertaking.

Another 200,000 objects were found
by the MFA&A officers attached to the
advancing US Third Army at the Mer-
kers mine. Although smaller in num-
ber than the other groups discovered,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
this cache was probably the
richest and perhaps even equal
in value to all the rest put
together. Since the mine was
not a good repository for
things of such great beauty
and value, they were promptly
evacuted to a collecting point
established by MFA&A in
one of the buildings of the Uni-
versity of Marburg, and later
were moved to Wiesbaden or
Munich.

In mid-summer of 1945, it
was decided that there was a
danger in keeping these ob-
jects in Germany and a plan
was formulated to remove the
most important objects to the
United States for safekeeping. It
should be clearly understood that this
plan never contemplated retaining
works of art in America, since this
would be completely contrary to the
principles of international law.

'VENTUALLY it was decided that

only a token shipment should be
made, since the repairs in the col-
lecting points proceeded faster and
with more safety and security than
was originally thought possible. In
December 1945, some 200 of the finest
pictures were selected to be shipped.
At the time of the shipment a solemn
promise was made jin the name of the
President of the United States that
these pictures, clearly recognized as
German property and associated with
the entire German ‘nation, would at
the proper time be returned.

The pictures were selected with
great care to present the cream of
the collections of the Kaiser-Friedrich-
Museum and the National Gallery,
two of the subsidiary galleries of the
former Prussian State Museums. They
were examined meticulously, carefully
photographed and complete descrip-
tions written of their condition. The
discriptions included every tiny crack
and blister and damage which had ever
been done to these pictures, and all
restoration which had been done upon
them in the past; exact sizes, mate-
rials of which they were made, the
conditions of the frames and of the
cradling on the back of wooden
panels, and every detail which
experts felt was necessary for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Rembrandt's “Moses Showing the Tables of
the Law” is inspected by Mr. Richard F.
Howard (left), author of this article, and
Mr. Theodore A, Heimrich (lower right),
chief of MFA&A Section, OMG for Hesse.

identification and proper preservation
of these paintings.

The actual movement was accom-
plished with great secrecy and the
paintings were accompanied on their
journey by Col. Harry A. McBride,
administrator of the National Gallery
in Washington, Comdr Keith Merril
and Lt. Lamont Morre, who had been
connected with their protection from
the beginning. There also was a com-
plete armed guard. The paintings
went by ship, packed in great boxes,
padded, braced and watched-over
like eggs.

Upon their arrival at New York,
they were transferred again with the
greatest of care to the new air-con-
ditioned special picture vaults of the
National Gallery in Washington. For
the next two years they remained
there under the eyes of the experts of
that gallery. Only accredited scholars
were permitted to see them. The pro-
tection of the paintings was consid-
ered a sacred trust.

CONTROVERSY arosed in the

United States concerning these
pictures after it became generally
known that they were there. Many
persons felt, on one hand, that they
should never have been brought to
America; many others felt that since
they were there they should be plac d
on exhibition so that they could be
seen by the public; a few persons got

Photography by Miss Eva-Maria Czako
Official Photographer, Wiesbaden Collecting Point

16

the idea that they were
man loot and ought to be
by the United States, By
general museum autho:
and others interested in
arts understood that that
pictures were part of the ¢
tural heritage of the Gem
and when conditions perm
they should and would
returned,
Last spring it was di
that the time for their
had arrived, The original pli
was to return all the pic ud
at once. However, such
extraordinary public intere

was aroused in America co
cerning these pictures that

gress itself tock part in
discussions, and finally a plan y
worked out whereby the 50
fragile would be returned to Gern
immediately, but that all of
would be exhibited in the exhibj
halls of the National Gallery be!
any shipment.

ATURALLY every museum in

country that could afford to sho
such a collection wished to exl
the rest, and a schedule was made i
cluding eight or nine of the gr
museums of the nation. It was furth
decided that a second 50 (those wh
arrived back in Germany at the e
of September) would be shipped
three of these exhibitions, while
remaining 100 would be sho
throughout the country until
spring of 1949.

This compromise was arranged aft
experts said that the most fr
wooden panels and canvases
not not stand the repeated shipmt
from place to place, the great
ges in temperature and humidity
the other dangers of a traveling ¢
hibition. There were no objections om
the part of the experts or authoriti
to the principle of showing the P
tures in the United States, and |
compromise was based entirely
the belief that some pictures wol
be endangered by these journey:

Whereever possible
sion charge has been

an
made

devoted to a fund for
and other food for Germ

NOVEMBER 2,

--- Page 20 ---
Holbein's celebrated portrait of the London merchant, George Gisze,
is on exhibit at the Landesmuseum in Wiesbaden with the masterpieces
returned by the United States. (upper right) Dr. Kurt Martin, director
of the Karlsruhe Kunsthalle (art gallery), who accompanied part of the
US tour as an expert for the Department of the Army, examines a
“Crucifixion” by the early Flemish master, Robert Campin, immediately
aiter its unpacking. (lower right) Ruben’s “Andromeda” being unpacked
at the Wiesbaden Collecting Point following return from United States.

children, The success of these
exhibition has been phenomenal.
In the National Gallery more than
a million persons crowded through
to look at them in the five weeks
during which
Similar crowds

they were shown.
have gone through
the galeries of the Metropolitan in
New York, the Art Institute of Chi-
cago and the Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston.

Before they finish their journeys,
these pictures will have been seen
by more persons than ever looked at
One group of pictures before. And a
very considerable fund will have

been raised for food for supplemen-

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

tary feeding of German children. The
National Gallery of Art in Washing-
ton is holding funds amouting to
$94,638.48, from exhibits of the art
collection in New York, Philadelphia
and Boston. Additional showings will
probably bring the total amout to
$150,000.

The first group of the pictures to be
returned to Germany arrived on the
US Army Transport General Patrick
in May, 1948. Accompanying them
were again Colonel McBride and
Commander Merrill and a guard from
Washington Military Post.

During the entire trip scross the
ocean two soldiers and one officer

17

were constantly on duty. The pictures
were placed in a special room made
of plywood, set into one of the hatch-
es of the ship. This room ‘was
fitted with electric lights and fans, so
that guards could keep watch on the
temperature and humidity, and by
varying the heat and the fans, could
control it. They were padded with
hundreds of army blankets and braced
in such a way that no movement was
possible.

ARTLY because of the alertness
of the guards and escorts, this
shipment was made without the
slightest incident. They were met at
Bremen by the chief of MFA&A

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
for OMGUS, an a special steel bag-
gage car ana sleeper for the escort
was moved directly to the shipside so
that the pictures were brought with
the minimum of difficulty into the
car, As they went across the gang-
plank each one was photographed
showing the seals on the boxes.

They were placed in the baggage
car and again padded and braced and
the two cars were attached to the
regular Frankfurt-Munich train. They
arirved in Munich the next day and
were met in the rain by the MFA&A
officer for Bavaria, Mr. H. S. Leon-
ard, with trucks and an MP escort
to take them to the collecting point
in Munich, There they were unpacked
and again given the most careful
examination,

Greatly to the satisfaction of every-
one concerned, it could be stated that
no appreciable change in their con-
dition had occurred during the entire
time that they were away. The re-
storer of the Bavarian State Museum,
the director general of the Bavarian
Museum and the entire MFA&A
staff, as well as Colonel McBride and
Commander Merril statisfied them-
selves of this fact. A few days later
they were placed on exhibition in the
gallery of the Haus der Kunst, ope-
rated by the Bavarian State Picture
Collection,

At the opening of this exhibition,
General Lucius D. Clay, the US Mili-
tary Governor, pointed out his great
satisfaction that these. pictures were
being returned to Germany and his
hope that they would represent one
more step in the exchange of the
highest cultural ideals between Ger-
many. and the United States. The
minister president of Bavaria, Dr.
Hans .Ehard, observed at the cere-
mony that only a country with high
conscience and noble purpose would
be capable of such a gesture. Maj.
Gen. George P. Hays, Deputy Mili-
tary Governor, reviewed the adven-
tures of the pictures and pointed out
the sginificance of this return both
for international law and internation-
al good-will. The pictures remained
on exhibition in Munich until Sept. 1
and the Bavarian people crowded to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

see them almost to the same extent
that people had in the United States.

n THE MIDDLE of September, the
I pictures were taken to Wiesbaden
and given into the custody of the
minister president of Hesse who had

already accepted the responsibility ;

for the other thousand pictures and
200,000 objects belonging to the for-
mer Prussian Museums. They have
been placed on exhibition in the
Landesmuseum at Wiesbaden together
with the second increment, so that
about 100 pictures have been on
display beginning Oct. 18, They will
remain on exhibition there for at least
two months,

Once again this exhibition calls
attention to the good faith of the
United States in returning the pic-
tures, and emphasizes the great
responsibility of the government of
Hesse in accepting these pictures and
other works of art into their trustee-
ship.

There are considerable difficulties
presented by this responsibility. The
Prussian state no longer exists, the
buildings of the museums in Berlin
are badly battered, and political dif-
ficulties are obvious. But these ob-
jects of art are a major portion of the
cultural heritage of all Germany and

Germany External
Assets Clarified

An article on German-owned fo}
assets, appearing on page 18 of
Information Bulletin, Issue No, 142)
Aug. 24, indicated that assets t :
$25,000,000 have been uncovere
MG investigations since July 1,

Property Division, OMGUS, px
out that this figure is the result”
proof of the existence of certain eo
tested cases only, and represents f
a small fraction of the total valu
German external assets.

It should therefore not be regarde
as a total figure for German asse
abroad, as might have been uni
stood from a reading only of
headline to the story.

consequently must be treated as
solemn responsibility, in addition t
their almost incredible monetar
value. i

It is difficult to estimate mon
values of works of art, especiall:
such a scale, but it has been cale
lated that in round numbers
responsibility of the Hessian St
for works of art coming from the
mer Prussian State Museums is sev
ral hundred million dollars.

bi

Richard Howard (right).

18

Checking the crates of paintings aboard the “General Sulton” as |
docked at Bremerhaven are Comdr. Keith Merrill (center) and

(US Army Signal Corps photo) _

NOVEMBER 2,

--- Page 22 ---
Freight-Car Building Plan Inaugurated in Bizone

N“ freight cars—one of the keys
to Germany's industrial recov-
ery—are now being built in Ger-
many's own plants. On Sept. 2 the
first of the 3,000 programmed
freight cars to be constructed in

western Germany since the war

rolled off the assembly line of the
Maschinenfabrik Augsburg-Nuernberg

in Nuremberg. In Heidelberg a few
days later 15 new freight cars

(above) One of the first 15 freight
cars delivered at Heidelberg was on
display at the ceremony marking the
inauguration of the program to furnish
needed rolling stock to the German
railroads of the Bizonal Area. (lower
left) Mr. Charles M.  LaFollette,
OMGWB director, talks with workers
at the Fuchs plant. (Phoios by Byers
JEIA). (right) Mr. Charles P. Gross,
US deputy chiet of the Bipartile Trans-
port Group, explains the building pro-
gtam. (Army Signal Corps photo)

were turned over’to the Reichsbahn
(German railroad system) in a cere-
mony at the Fuchs Wagon factory.
Cooperation among various plants in
the zone in lending material and
parts has made this new step toward
recovery possible.

Freight cars have been urgently
needed since the war's end. Of
350,000 cars available in the Bizonal
Area before the war only 258,000
were left and of these 122,000 were
foreign cars. At first, demolished
repair shops and roundhouses of the
Reichsbahn were not able to take
care of all the work needed, so a
large number of building firms as-
sisted in the work.

The program to construct new cars
was originated by Military Govern-
ment early in 1948 both:as a morale
building factor for German industry
and as a method of expanding the

over-burdened transportation system
of bizonal Germany, The Bipartite
Transport Group aided in getting
priority for the allocation and de-
livery of materials for the program.

After a survey of all suitable
plants in the area, five were selected
to begin assembly line production.
Most of the factories already were
engaged in some form of rolling
stock repair which amounts to about

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 23 ---
Berlin Rations Higher—An increase of
15 percent—from 1,730 to 2,000 cal-
ories—was made Nov, 1 in the
average value of the daily ration in
the western sectors of Berlin. Group III
comprising employees received the
biggest increase, totaling 274 calories.
The increase was approved by the
US, British and French commandants
after a study of the needs of the
various sections of the population and
the availability of food brought in by
the airlift despite the Soviet blockade.

Air Forces Merged—The American
and British airlift operations, which
have been supplying Berlin since the
start of the Soviet blockade, were
merged into a unified USAFE-RAF
command, designated as the Combined
Airlift Task Force (CALTF). Maj. Gen.
William H. Turner, commanding ge-
neral of the USAFE airlift task force,
was named CALFT commander, with
Air Commodore J. W. F. Merer of the
RAF, as deputy commander.

Budget for Bizone—The 1948 bizonal
budget, covering the administration
of the combined economic area of the
US and British Zones, calls for a total
revenue and expenditure balance of
408,438,450 Deutsche marks. The an-
nual budget was approved subject to
the stipulation that supplementary
provisions be made for financing Ber-
lin food supplies, a reconstruction
loan corporation for extending long-
term credit, and subsidies for marginal
coal mines. A minimum appropriation
of DM50,000,000 monthly for a period
of three months was fixed for the fi-
nancing of Berlin's food supply.

Coal Production—The highest average
daily hard coal production for any
month since the end of the war was
published in the September monthly
progress report of the German Coal
Mining Administration. In the month
of 26 working days, the daily average

INFORMATION BULLETIN

production of hard coal was 291,037
tons, surpassing the previous daily
averages of 288,139 tons in March and
287,441 in July.

Political Parties—‘Europa Union,” an
organization dedicated to promoting
a united Europe was licensed to
operate on a state-wide level in Ba-
varia. As a “political group," ‘rather
than a party, it can conduct all the
political activities of a party, except
nominating candidates for elections...
No action was taken by OMGB on
the application of the Association of
Christian Socialists on the grounds
that the association was so closely
associated with the Communist Party
that the granting of a separate license
did not seem justified.... OMG Hesse
notified the German Party at Kassel,
that its license, which expired Oct. 1,
would not be renewed.

Firm Aids Potato-Buying—The Robert
Bosch Company of Stuttgart originated
a plan to lend money to its 9,000 em-
ployees for the purchase of potatoes
to be stored in cellars against the
coming winter's needs, Six thousand
hundredweights of potatoes have been
bought and delivered from a whole-
sale firm to the homes of Bosch em-
ployees. Under the plan, Bosch is lend-
ing DM25 to single employees, and
DM50 to married persons, with an
extra DM10 for each child. The limit
is DM80. Repayment to the company
will be made by payroll deduction of
DM 10 per month.

Black Market—A new trick in black-
marketing was uncovered when Hes-
sian rural policemen, on a routine
vehicle check, stopped an ambulance
loaded with coffee, cocoa, sugar, choc-
olate and cigarettes, The ambulance
driver told investigators he was driv-

. ing for some displaced persons, who

deserted the vehicle shortly before
the road-block, and they must have

20

left the contraband in the ambulan:
He was unable to identify his alle
passengers or give a satisfactory

planation for using the ambulance

a private conveyance.

Mercy Missions—Peter Buecher,
month-old German child _ suffer
from a rare intestinal disease, was
moved from Berlin to a Bielefeld
hospital and placed under care of tl
British Red Cross, Requiring a diet
bananas, the child had been provid
the vital fruit by the Women's Con
mittee of the American Press Club
Berlin until his parents moved r
cently to Bielefeld. The British R
Cross is the only organization, wii
the assistance of the CCG(BE) a
RAF, able to furnish the bananas
the British Zone. i i

Trade Unions—No acceptance hi
been made by the western Gen
union delegations to the renewed
vitation of the Communist-dominat
executive board of the Berlin Fr
German Trade Union Federai
(FDGB) for a direct study of the Be:
trade union situation. The FDGB
nounced the renewal of the invita’
Sept. 9 since no reply was recei’
to an earlier offer made at an ear
interzonal conference.

Music and Theater—A _ grant
$10,000 for the implementation of
Visiting US Artists Program for
many has been received by the
York Field Office of Civil Affairs Di
sion, Department of the Army, from th
Oberlaender Trust.... “Of Mice
Men" by John Steinbeck had its
man premiere Sept. 14 in Wiesba
It was extremely well received
both press and public as a study
social and metaphysical sign
cance.... “Kiss and Tell" was
duced at Berlin's Kurfuerstendamm
Theater Sept. 24. Although well 1
ceived by the audience it was

NOVEMBER 2, 194

--- Page 24 ---
Mr. John Foster Dulles, US delegate to the United
Nations in Paris, attends the October meeting of the
Bipartite Board and German bizonal officials in Frank-
furt. Seated at the conference table are (left to right):
Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, deputy military governor
and commanding general, OMGUS; Ambassador Robert

approved by the drama critics due to
its lack of social significance and their
unfamiliarity with this type of play.

Mail Service—Outgoing international
airmail service from the three western
zones of Germany became available
Oct. 20 to all Germans with payment
in Deutsche mark.... Postal relations
between the three western zones and
Japan were resumed Oct. 15.... A
special postage cancellation stamp
with a “Berlin” overprint was used in
the three western sectors of Berlin in
October to commemorate the hun-
dredth day of the blockade of the city.

Infantile Paralysis—In addition to the
poliomyelitis epidemic in Bavaria
which was declining, an increased
Number of cases was reported from
other US Zone states. During August
Hesse reported 57 new cases and 40
new cases for the first two weeks
of September. A US Army portable
Tespirator has been lent the Frankfurt
Health Department for use in the
City Hospital. In Wuerttemberg-Ba-
den, 22 new cases of poliomyelitis
With three deaths occurred in widely
Scattered locations in late September.
Each state except Bremen has one res-
Pirator lent to the Germans by the
National Infantile Paralysis Found-
ation, Berlin has three,

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

Control Office.

Vote of Confidence—Christian Stock,
minister-president of Hesse, and his
coalition cabinet were given a vote of
confidence by the Hessian legislature
despite Communist and extreme-right
opposition over the MG-directed re-
duction in the works council co-de-
termination law until passage of a
basic trizonal law.

Level of Industry—In answer to an
appeal from the bizonal economics
director for an acceleration of raw
material imports, the US Military Go-
vernor said the bizonal authorities
had not yet proved that they could
support a higher level of industry
than they now had. Imports of raw
material already arranged for the next
six months would probably prove
greater than the production of coal
would allow German industry to use.
He advised the German authorities to
get their house in order and prove
that they could in fact produce more
exports than already planned.

European Recovery Program—Ninty-
five percent of the commodities te-
quested by bizonal Germany under
the first 90-day period of ERP have
been approved by the Economic Re-
construction Administration. This
means, according to bipartite officials,
that contracts for $94,936,000 worth

21

Ge

P. Murphy, political adviser; Mr. Clarence L. Adcock,
US chairman of the Bipartite Control Office; Mr. Dulles;
General Lucius D, Clay, US Military Governor; General
Sir Brian Robertson, British Military Governor; Sir
Gordon Macready, British chairman of the Bipartite

(Photo by US Amny Signal Corps)

of critical industrial and food items
have either been completed or are in
process of negotiation. Of this amount
$31,499,000 of foodstuffs and agricul-
tural items have already been de-
livered for use in the Bizone.

Meals for Students—The special feed-
ing program for students and lecturers
in universities and colleges has been
combined with the Child Feeding Pro-
gram. Students and lecturers will re-
ceive the 350-calorie meal five days
per week provided for in the Child
Feeding Program, rather than a
250-calorie meal per day six days per
week originally authorized, and will
make use in many instances of the
same kitchens and canteens.

Newspapers—The license of Hans
Weber, editor of Mainpost, Wuerttem-
berg, was indefinitely suspended by
ISD, OMG Bavaria, when pro-Nazi
and anti-Semitic articles written by
Weber were discovered in the back
files of Goebbels’ propaganda news-
paper, Donau-Zeitung .... The license
of the Communist-affiliated Freiheit at
Duesseldorf was cancelled and that
of the Neue Volkszeitung at Dortmund
was suspended for one month by Bri-
tish authorities for anti-Allied ar-
ticles.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Personnel Changes
Are Announced

Mr. Lawrence E. de Neufville, for-
merly deputy director of the Office of
the Director of Intelligence, OMGUS,
and chief of the Analysis and Reports
Branch, ODI, has been named con-
sultant to the director of the Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS.

The appointment of Mr. Norman
H, Collisson as representative of the
Economic Cooperation Administra-
tion to the French Occupied Zone of
Germany was announced by Am-
bassador W. Averell Harriman, US
special representative in Europe.
Mr. Collisson is also Ambassador
Harriman's deputy for Bizonia.

Mr, Phillip Ryan has assumed con-
trol of the International Refugee Or-
ganization (IRO) operations in the
US Area of Control in Germany,

Mr. Gwynn Garnett, former econ-
omist with the Farm Credit Ad-
ministration of Omaha, has been
appointed to head the food supply
and distribution activities for the
Bipartite Control Office,

Mr. Victor H. Skiles, rationing
specialist in the Bipartite Food, Agri-
culture and Forestry Group's Food
Supply Branch for the past two months,
has taken up his new work as food
import coordinator for the ECA Mis-
sion to Greece,

Brig. J. J. Gilman (Retd) relin-
quished his post as deputy chief,
Bipartite Commerce and Industry
Group, and chief, Commerce and In-
dustry Elements in the British Zone,
on his return to private business in
the United Kingdom.

Mr. Charles T. Bloodworth, Jr., has
been appointed chief of the German

Justice Branch, OMG Wuerttemberg- _

Baden. He has been serving as an
MG judge in northern Wuerttemberg
Baden.

Mr. Raymond Pagan was named
acting chief of the Publications Branch,
Information Services Division, OMG
Hesse, Formerly he was deputy chief
of the branch,

Mr, Alex E, Squadrilli, present chief
of operations for the Civil Affairs
Division, European Command, was
named coordinator for Germany with
the US Displaced Persons Commission.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Division, Eighth Air Force.

Mr. Squadrilli's appointment made
him the commission's official respon-
sible for displaced persons immigra-
tion from the three western zones of
Germany to the United States, under
the Congressional DP Immigration Act.

Mr. Thomas M. Rooney, deputy
Military Government officer for the
city of Wiesbaden, concluding four
years with OMG Hesse, left for the
United Staates.

Miss Angeline M. Pascuzzi, ad-
ministrative assistant for the Educa-
tion and Cultural Affairs Division,
OMG Hesse, returned to the United
States after 31 months of overseas
duty with Military Government.

Mr. Mordecai Ezekiel, US repre-
sentative with the Food and Agri-
culture Organization of the United
Nations, made a seven day inspection
tour of agricultural production and
the farm supply situation in the
Bizone.

Lt. Gen. Willard S. Paul, director
of Personnel and Administration for
the Department of the Army, returned
to Washington after an eight-day tour
oftthe European Command.

Following an inspection tour of
EUCOM Engineer Division installa-
tions, Maj. Gen. Douglas L. Weart,
commandant of the Army Engineer
school at Fort Belvoir, Va., returned
to the United States, General Weart

22

Maj. Gen. William E. Hall (right) was recently appointed director of
intelligence, CINCEUR, with headquarters in Berlin, and to succeed him
as director of the Armed Forces Division, OMGUS, was named Maj,
Gen. James P. Hodges (left), wartime commander of the 2d Bombardmen
(Photos by Army Signal Corps/PIO OMGUS) _

was a delegate to the Internatt
Navigation Congress in Sept
at Brussels, Antwerp and Rotte

Lt. Gen, Kin Cheung, former surgt
general of the Chinese Army ai
new dean of the Chinese Army Mé
ical College, toured hospitals an
medical schools in the European Com
mand, while on a mission for
Chinese Government to study m
education and US Army mi
procedures,

Air Terminal Shifted —
As a result of the expanding al
lift operation, Rhine/Main Airbase
the American Zone of German
temporarily closed to all civil aii
tiers beginning Nov. 1 except
in direct support of the Occ
Forces and the Berlin airlift el
OMGUS announced.
Stuttgart/Echterdingen Airport

for these airlines. The carriers a
ed are: KLM, the Roal Dutch Ai
Sabena, the Belgium airlines;
Norway, DDL, Denmark; SBA, S’
Swiss-Air, and Air-Luxembourg.

Notification of the curtailment |
air traffic into the Frankfurt base
contained in a letter to the
airlines from Brig. Gen. Charles
Gailey, Jr., OMGUS chief of staff.

NOVEMBER 2 |

--- Page 26 ---
(Continued from page 19)
Freight-Car Building Plan

2,000 cars monthly, but major repairs
are expected to be completed by the
end of this year.

Besides repaired cars, the Reichs-
pahn has been promised delivery of
3,000 new freight cars before the end
of January 1949, the first of which
were those produced in September in
Nuremberg and Heidelberg. Approxi-
mately 5,500 workers will be active
jn completing this special program.
Original plans called for the manu-
facture of 5,000 additional cars by
June 1949; 12,000 more by December
1949; 12,500 more by June 1950, and
thereafter at the rate of about 20,000
cars a year.

Since these plans were made,
however, orders were placed for an
additional 12,000 for delivery by
June 30, 1949. An initial allocation of
95,000 tons of steel was made to
cover a part of the steel needs for
this second order.

As for the first 3,000 cars scheduled,
bipartite transportation officials be-
lieve that according to present pro-
duction plants will have no difficulty,
in delivering on time. Target figures
consistently are being exceeded, The
weekly progress report submitted
Sept. 25 showed that for the 21 calen-
dar days since the new car, pro-
duction started 183 cars had been
delivered against an expected 164
cars.

In praising this building program
designed to strengthen western Ger-
many'’s tranportation system, Mr.
Charles M. LaFollette, director of
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, expressed
a common conviction at the Hei-
delberg ceremony: “For three years
Tail transport has been limping
along with patched up and worn-out
cars. All the expert skill of your
engineers and mechanics has been
devoted merely to keeping these
Cars on the rails. Meanwhile, as
industrial production increases, the
demand for transportation, always
great, has skyrocketed. Rebuilt and
Patched-up railroad cars can no
longer meet the needs of a fast-
Teviving western Germany. In
building these 3,000 new freight cars
You are pumping new corpuscles into
the arteries of German trade."

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

Excerpts Taken from Instructions

Limit Set on Court Fines

For the purposes of paragraphs 4 und 6 of
Article 3 of MG Ordinance No. 31, in respect
of fines, an amount of fifty thousand Deutsche
marks (DM 50,000) shall constitute the equi-
valent jurisdictional limit of a district judge
and an amount of five thousand Deutsche
marks (DM 5,000) shall constitute the
equivalent jurisdictional limit of a magistrate.

Within the meaning of paragraph 1 of Ar-
ticle 15 of MG Ordinance No 31, the ap-
propriate district court for proceedings which
are pending before the court established under
MG Ordinance No 6, and in which trial has
not commended Prior to the operative date
of Article 15 in the appropriate state or in
the US Sector of Berlin, shall be deemed to
be the district court in the district in which
the defendant resides, is stationed, or is
found, or, if a juristic person, has its
principal place of business.

This regulation shall be applicable within
the states of Bavaria, Hesse, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, Bremen and in the US Sector of Ber-
lin and shall become effective on Sept. 25. —
From Regulation No 1 under MG Ordinance
No 31.

MG Court Ordinance Amended

Amendment No. 3 to MG Ordinance No, 6,
"Military Government Court for Civil Actions.”

Section 15 of MG Ordinance No. 6 is
amended by. deleting the words “six months”
wherever they appear and inserting in place
thereof the words “one year."

Section 3 of Part II of MG Ordinance No. 6
which was added by Section 18 of MG
Ordinance No. 18, is amended by adding the
following: "Causes of action arising on or
after Oct, 4, 1948, and the trial thereof shall
not be governed by the foregoing provisions
of this section, but shall be governed by the
applicable German law except as it may be
otherwise modified by Military Government."

This ordinance shall become effective within
the states of Bavaria, Hesse, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, Bremen and the US Sector of Berlin
on Oct, 4, — From MG Ordinance No. 34.

Christmas Funds

No funds which have been transferred from
club or sundry funds to any welfare fund and
no funds which have been appropriated from
the EUCOM Central Welfare Fund or major
command central welfare funds will be used
to finance Christmas parties tor German,
Austrian, Allied or displaced persons children.

Donations from organizations, individuals
and unit clubs or associations may be utilized
for this purpose. Major commanders will care-
fully supervise and regulate such use and will
impose whatever restrictions are deemed
necessary as to types of parties and amounts
of monies to expended,

No funds will be used for the purchase of
US Army supplies nor for the purchase of
rationed food items from the German economy.
Purchase of nonrationed items from the
European Command Exchange System is
authorized, provided items so purchased are
for the express purpose of distribution and
use at Christmas parties.

In order to provide rigid control over the
use of government transportation which may
be needed to meet the requirements of units
and organizations in procuring food and sup-
plies for Christmas parties, post commanders
will take positive steps to consolidate all such
needs within their respective posts and will
dispatch only such transportation as is needed
for purchases other than local.

The chief, EUCOM Exchange System, has
agreed to cooperate in every way possible in
supplying from exchange stocks the desired
food and other commodities, and also in pro-
curing items not in stock but available
through exchange procurement facilities. —
From EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 40.

French Visa Instructions

Due to a shortage of personnel at the
French Liaison Office in Frankfurt, French
visas (French Mission stamp) required on
military orders or passports for travel to or
through the French Zone of Austria will be
issued only between 2 and 6 p, m., Mondays

23

through Fridays. The visas will not be issued
on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.

Passports or orders left with the Liaison
Office at 2 p. m, may be picked up between
5:30 and 6 p. m. of the same day. The French
Mission stamp will not be issued on a ‘‘while-
you-wait” basis. — From EUCOM announcement.

Reports Discontinued

Effective immediately, the OMGUS copy of
all “'500" series Food and Agriculture Reports,
is discontinued. This directive does not affect
OMGUS Food and Agriculture Reports not
belonging to the "500" series, — From OMGUS
letter AG 319.1 (EA), Oct, 19.

Effective immediately, the OMGUS and BICO
copies of the following reports, are dis-
continued:

MG/C&I/13/F Six-Month Availability Forecast

for Solid Fuel

MG/C&I/48/F German POL Receipts Report

MG/C&1/72/F Monthly POL Statistical Sum-

mary

MG/IND/14/F Estimated Liquid Fuel Require-

ments.

Information formerly contained in the above
reports is now being obtained through other
channels, — From OMGUS letter AG 319.1
(EA), Oct. 19.

Effective upon completion of the report
covering the month of September, Section II
of the "Monthly Utilities Report,"' MG/IND/
7/B, will be discontinued. Sections I, II, and
IV of the subject report were discontinued by
previous directives, This report is now dis-
continued in its entirety,

Report MG/IND/7/F has been replaced by
BICO reports which are to be submitted in
accordance with the instructions received
from BICO, — From OMGUS letter AG 319.1
(EA), Oct, 14.

Effective immediately, the ‘Wine, Cham-
pagne and Liquor Report, MG/Food/49/F" will
be discontinued there’ being no further
requirement for the information contained in
the report at this level. — From OMGUS letter
AG 319.1 (EA), Oct. 7.

Effective this date the ‘Lumber Status
Report, MG/C&l/5/F,"’ will be discontinued.
Information contained in this report is now
being obtained by BICO through German
agencies. — From OMGUS letter AG 319.1
(EA), Oct. 1,

Deadline under MG Law 59

The deadline for the filing of claims and
petitions under MG Law 59 will expire Dec. 31,
1948. It is, therefore, imperative that
claimants be assisted to the greatest extent
possible in the preparation of their petitions
and that the Land Title Registries cooperate
in such cases in which claimants are desirous
of preparing their petitions for restitution in
order to file them with the Central Filing
Agency at Bad Nauheim prior to Dec, 31,

OMG directors are instructed to discuss
subject matter with the Ministry of Justice
and to request them to issue instructions to:
the effect that highest priorities be given to
applications requiring information from the
records of Land Title Registries in connection
with the preparation of petitions under MG
Law No. 59.

Recent reports indicate that, in several
instances, German courts in the US Zone of
Occupation have not complied with provisions
of Article 71 under MG Law No, 59. Under
these provisions the court should notify the
restitution agency if claims as described in
Articles 6 thru 48 of the Law are asserted by
a person entitled to restitution in a court
proceeding, including the stage of compulsory
execution by way of complaint, defense or
counterclaim, The court may, and on request
of the restitution agency must, stay the pro-
ceedings or temporarily suspend execution by
order which cannot be appealed,

It appears that the reported violations of
Article 71 under MG Law No 59 are due to
the fact that German courts are not suf-
ficiently informed about the jurisdiction of
restitution agencies to which notifications
required under the Article must be referred.
OMG directors are instructed to make available
the lists indicating the jurisdiction of restitution
agencies to the Ministry of Justice with the

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 27 ---
request to furnish said information to the
German courts in order to enable them to
determine the jurisdiction of restitution
agencies, — From OMGUS letter AG 010.6
(CD), Oct. 11.
Requests for Civilian Counsel

In order to insure the prompt processing of
requests for the services of civilian counsel
who are in the United States or in other
countries, and so that Military Entry Permits
may be issued with the minimum of delay, it
is requested that all requests under para-
graph 9a of MG court letter No. 8 filed with
an OMG headquarters or any subordinate
echelon thereof, be transmitted immediately

upon receipt to Administration of Justice
Branch, Legal Division, OMGUS, APO 696-A,
where they will be examined to determine
whether they meet the requirements of above
cited directive, If it appears that they meet
such requirements they will be approved and
transmitted to the Combined Travel Board (US
Element); if not, they will be returned for
necessary further action. — From OMGUS
letter AG 013.2 (LD), Oct. 11.
Addition to MG Law 58

Reference is made to the instructions im-
plementing MG Law No. 58 and Control Coun-
cil Directive No, 50 (MGR Title 23-337 [a]).
Paragraph 9 thereof is amended by adding at

the end thereof the following new unnumbereq
paragraph:

If the state determines that an organization,

has aims and functions similar to those or.
ganizations referred to in Articles II and [If
of Control Council Directive No.. 50; that it
fulfills functions which are beneficial to a
large group of the German population; and
that such organization is in need of property
for the establishment, rehabilitation or ad-

vancement of the organization the state may,.

if it desires, transfer property to such
organization without reference to provisions
of paragraph 9 hereof, or of paragraph 3,
Article V_ of Control Council Directive
No. 50, — From OMGUS letter AG 386.7 (PD),

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Circular No. 104, Ordnance Emergency Ser-
vice Stations, Hq EUCOM, 24 Sept. 1948.

Circular No. 106, Issuance of Identity Cards
by IRO (PCIRO) to United Nations Displaced
Persons, Hq EUCOM, 25 Sept. 1948,

Fiscal Station Numbers, AG 130 BUD-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 28 Sept. 1948.

Circular No. 109, Hq EUCOM, 28 Sept, 1948.
Sec I—Reproduction of Joint Chiefs of Staff
Papers. Sec II—Control of Domestic and Inter-
national Long Distance Telephone Calls.
Sec Ill—Displaced Persons and Indigenous
Employees for IRO: Replaces EUCOM letter
AG 383.1 GCA-AGO of Dec, 12, 1947. Sec. IV—
Educational Training for Negro Guard and
Truck Company Personnel: Amends Cir. 85.
Sec V—Security of Supplies: Amends EUCOM—
SOP 52. Sec VI—Rescissions.

Letter of Appreciation, AG 312.1, Hq EUCOM,
30 Sept. 1948. Concerns reduction in the
serious incident rate for Negro troops.

Issue of Gas Masks to Students, AG 400.34
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 30 Sept. 1948,

Discontinuance of Lumber Status Report,
MG/C&I/5/F., AG 319.1 (EA), OMGUS, 1 Oct.
1948,

Weekly Directive No. 39,
1 Oct, 1948. List following:

Sec I—Restricted Usage of Basa (German
Rail) Telephones.

Sec Il—Maintenance of L-5 Aircraft.

Sec Ill—Regrading of Classification. Concerns
First US Army Report of Operations, Aug. 1,
1944—Feb. 22, 1945, and Report of Operations
(Final After Action Report, 3rd US Army).

Sec IV—Signal Corps Training Films. Lists
“Attack on Hidden Waste,” ‘Quartermaster
Activities in ETO," “Operation Thunderbolt,”’
“Artic Igloo—Something About A  Soldie:
“Modern Coal Mining” and "The Nation's
Capital”.

Sec V——Ordnance Technical Inspections.

Sec VI—Distribution of Directives and Publi-
cations to USAFE. .

Sec VII—Documentation for Entry into French
Occupied Austria.

Sec VIII—Recruiting, Regular Army and Air
Forces, Amends Sec XIX WD No. 28

Sec IX—Course in Military Justice.

Sec X—Enlistment Records, Regular Army,
WD AGO Forms 21,

Sec XI—EUCOM Multiple Addressee Letters
and Cables.

Circular No, 115, Troop Information and
Education, Hq EUCOM, 1 Oct. 1948,

Winter Training Program, Training Memo
No. 6, Hq EUCOM, 1 Oct. 1948. :

Circular No, 117, Hq EUCOM, 2 Oct, 1948.
Sec I—General Signal Policies.. Sec Il—Pro-
curement, Storage and Issue Responsibility for
Packing, Crating and Preserving Materials:
Gives list. Sec I1]—Communication, Respon-
sibilities, American Graves Registration Com-
mand.

Misconduct of Enlisted Personnel, AG 250
AGP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 2 Oct. 1948,

Weekly Directive No. 40, Hq EUCOM, 2 Oct.,
1948,

Hq EUCOM,

Sec I—Credit of Manufacturers engaged in
Production for US Army.

Sec I—Establishment of the International
Refugee Organization.

Sec IlI—Preparation of Enlistment and Sep-
aration Records,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Sec V—Recruiting, Regular Army and Air
Force.

Sec VI—Immigration of Alien Wives aiter
27 December 1948.

Sec ViIl—Reimbursable Dayroom Furnishings
Program.

Sec VIII—Recall to Extended Active Duty.

Sec IX—Travel to Saudi Arabia and the
Azores. Cites restrictions.

Sec X—Company Grade Officers Supply and
Administrative Course, Kitzingen Basic Train-
ing Center.

Sec XI—Sheltering of Unauthorized Persons.

Sec XII—Christmas Parties.

Sec XIII—EUCOM Multiple Addressee Letters
and Cables,

Sec XIV—Rescissions.

Military Government Regulations, AG 010.6
(CO), OMGUS, 4 Oct. 1948,

European Command Equipment Modification
Lists and Tables of Allowances, AG 400.34
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 4 Oct, 1948. Replaces
EUCOM letter of Sept. 8.

Tables of Clothing and Equipment Allowances
for the European Command, AG 400.34 GOT,
Hq EUCOM, 5 Oct. 1948.

Military Justice Course for Enlisted Person-
nel, AG 250.4 JAG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 5 Oct.
1948,

Legislation for Monetary Reform, AG 010.6
(FA), OMGUS, 6 Oct. 1948, Gives text of
Regulation No. 8 under MG Law No, 63,
effective date 15 September 1948,

Advance Copy of Change to MGR Title 27,
“Scientific Research’’: Scientific and_Learned
Societies, AG 080 (EA), OMGUS, 6 Oct. 1948.

Security Inspection, AG 333 SIG-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 6 Oct. 1948,

Listening Watch on AFN Broadcasts, AG
000.77 GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 Oct. 1948.

EUCOM Publication, Depot Bulletin 40,
EUCOM Publications Depot, 6 Oct. 1948, Lists
Distribution for Sept. 27 to Oct. 1.

Discontinuance of Wine, Champagne and
Liquor Report. MG/Food/49/F. AG 319.1 (EA),
OMGUS, 7 Oct. 1948.

Exercise of the Right of Self Defense by
German Police, AG 014.12 GCA-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 7 Oct. 1948,

Circular No, 123, Safeguarding of Motor
Vehicles, Hq EUCOM, 7 Oct. 1948.

Appropriations and Projects Pertaining to
Non Occupation Costs, Trizonia-French Element
(Indigenous Funds), AG 120 BUD-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 8 Oct. 1948,

Administration of Military Government Law
No. 59, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 11 Oct. 1948.

Procedure for Obtaining Counsel for Military
Government Court Proceedings, AG 013.2( LD),
OMGUS, 11 Oct, 1948,

Allied Military Missions, AG 091.112 (SG),
OMGUS, 11 Oct. 1948.

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters.

24

Establishment of Central Distribution Section,
Information Services Division, AG 322 (Gen}
(IS), OMGUS, 11 Oct. 1948.

Medical Settlement Systems, AG 010 (CA),
OMGUS, 13 Oct. 1948. . "

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin No. 41
EUCOM Publications Depot, 13 Oct, 1948,
Concerns distribution of Oct. 4-8.

Discontinuance of Monthly Utilities Report,
MG/IND/7/F., AG 319.1 (EA), OMGUS, 14 Oct.
1948,

Marriage Application Procedure, AG 291.1,
OMGUS, 15 Oct. 1948,

Weekly Directive No, 41,
15 Oct. 1948. Lists following:

Sec I~Audit of Nonappropriated Funds.
Amends Sec IV, WD No. 34,

Sec II—Anti-Freeze.

Sec IlI—Safety Bulletin.

Sec IV—Signal Corps Training Films.
“Enough Rope & National Defense
“Fundamentals of Small Arms Weapons
“Combat Smoke Operations,” "Korea Today,”
“Consumption of Food" and "New France”.

Sec V—Course of Instruction in Property
Accounting,

Sec VI—Inspector General Inspections.

Sec VII—Enlistment in the Women's Army
Corps, Regular Army and Women in the
United States Air Force.

Sec VIII—Priority Employment of UN DP‘s/
Refugees by the US Forces.

Sec IX—EUCOM Military Prison,

Sec X—Recruiting, Regular Army and Air
Force.

Sec XI—Dependents Schools Tuition Fees.

Sec XII—Availability of Indigenous Funds.

Sec XIII—Quotas for the Military Police
Course and the Investigator's Course, EUCOM
Intelligence School.

Sec XIV—Marriage.

Sec XV—Shipment of Privately Owned Auto-
mobiles to the ZI on Alert Notice.

Sec XVI—National Service Life Insurance—
Renewal of Five Year Term Plan.

Sec XVII—EUCOM Exchange System Ration
Cards (Identification).

Sec XVIII—EUCOM Multiple Addressee Let-
ters and Cables.

Sec XIX—Rescission.

Order No. 2 Pursuant to Article HI (5) of.
MG Proclamation No. 7, "Bizonal Economic

Hq EUCOM,

Lists

Administration", AG 010.6 (MD), OMGUS. ,
16 Oct. 1948,
Amendment of Instructions Implementing

MG Law No. 58 and Control Council Directive
No. 50 (MGR Title 23-337[a]), AG 386.7 (PD).
OMGUS, 16 Oct. 1948.

Temporary Re-routing of Air Traffic from
the Frankfurt Area, AG 360.4 (Gen) (AD).
OMGUS, 18 Oct, 1948,

Discontinuance of Industry Reports, AG
319.1 (EA), OMGUS, 19 Oct. 1948.

Discontinuance of Food and Agriculture
Reports, AG 319.1 (EA), OMGUS, 19 Oct. 1948.

Fourth Law for Monetary Reform, AG 003
(FA), 20 Oct. 1948,

Reciprocal Legal Aid, AG 014.13 (LD),
OMGUS, 20 Oct. 1948. Gives revised list of
consular representatives.

Hiring of Indigenous Personnel by OMGUS.
AG 230 (Ind) (PO), OMGUS, 20 Oct. 1948.

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 28 ---
KEY MG PERSONNEL

Office of Commander-in-Chief
(Berlin, APO 742)

Commander-in-Chief and Military Governor:
General Lucius D, Clay, Berlin 42481.
personal Assistant: Capt, M. C. Allen, Berlin
42481.

Political Adviser: Ambassador
Murphy, Berlin 42630,
special Adviser; Mr.
Berlin 45420,

Secretary General: Mr,
Berlin 42006,

Budget & Fiscal Director: Col. J. J. Dubbelde,
Jr., Berlin 45405,

Executive Officer: Capt. B. R. Barrett, Berlin
45415,

Director of Management Control; Mr, James
L, Sundquist, Berlin 42077,

Chief, Management & Reports Branch: Mr.
W. H. Schroder, Berlin 43794.
Director of Intelligence; Maj.
Hall, Berlin 45392.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. R. G. Montgomery,
Berlin 45373.

Acting Inspector General: Col.
Lane, Heidelberg 02798.
Executive Officer: Col.
Berlin 45322.

Director of Civilian Personnel; Mr.
M. Barnett, Berlin 44368,

Robert D.
J. Anthony Panuch,

James E. King, Jr.,

Gen. W. E.

Herman O.

Harold R. Booth,
Robert

Office of Military Government
for Germany (US)
(Berlin, APO 742)

, OMGUS,
Maj. Gen.

Commanding Gener:
Military Governor:
Hays, Berlin 44655.

Administrative Assistant:
son, Berlin 43969.

Office of Chief of Staff

Chief of Staff: Brig. Gen. C, K. Gailey, Ber-
lin 42634,

Executive Officer: Capt, V W Bond, Berlin
43529,

and Deputy
George P.

Mrs, Mary Alder-

Office of Secretary General

Secretary General: Mr. James E. King, Jr.,
Berlin 42006.

Executive Secretary: Mr. James M. Barnett,
Berlin 45011,

Administrative & Personnel Officer:
Helen D. Brand, Berlin 42131.

re ocretany Mr, Eric G. Gration, Berlin

Miss

Executive Secretary:
McDonald, Berlin 42477.

Assistant Staff Secretary; Major Theodore C.
Boyden, Berlin 43148,

Assistant Staff Secretary: Mr. G. F. Corrigan,
Berlin 43380,

Assistant Staff Secretary: Miss C. S. Murrie,
Berlin 42225,
Assistant Staff
Berlin 44646.

US Secretary, Bipartite Secretariat: Major
Walter E, Mather, Berlin 42078,

Acting Deputy US Secretary: Mr. J. F. Golay,
Berlin 44591,

S Secretary, Tripartite Secretariat (Prov.):
Mr. Gilbert A. Harrison, Berlin 42890.

US Secretary, Allied Secretariat: Mr. James
E, King, Jr., Berlin 42006,

Deputy Us Secretary: Mr. E, O. Oulashin,
Berlin 3564,

Assistant to US Secretary: Mr. C. Ancrum,
Berlin 45068,

Control Office

Control Officer: Mr.
Berlin 42077.

Major James A.

Secretary: Mr. C. J. Goll,

James L. Sundquist,

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

Executive Officer: Mr. A. D. Mittendorf, Jr.,
Berlin 42055.

Administrative Officer:
Berlin 42131.

Chief, Organization & Program Branch; Mr.
Gordon P. Freese, Berlin 42059.

Assistant Chief: Dr. B. R. McClaskey, Berlin
42057.

Organization: Mr.
42218,

Laender (State) Affairs: Mr. T. F. Carson,
Berlin 45376.

Manpower Control: Mr. E. W. Cordell, Berlin
45352.

Assistant Control Officer for Bipartite Affairs:
Mr. A. G. Sims, Berlin 45208.

Chief, Reports & Statistics Branch: Mr. H. R.
Habicht, Berlin 42781.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. E. DeWilde, Berlin 43124.

Chief, Statistics Section; Mr. F. Judson, Berlin
42382.

Chief, MG Reports Section: Miss W. Compton,
Berlin 43328.

Editor, Information Bulletin: Mr. H. W. Waid,
Berlin 42252.

Chief, Forms & Publications Control: Mr. A. H.
St. Denis, 42725.

Chief, Graphics
42329.

Chief, Historical Branch: Dr.
Berlin 45206.

Chief, Budget & Fiscal Branch: Mr. F. D.
Mitchell, Jr., Frankfurt 21045.

Assistant to Branch Chief: Mr. W. J. Monti-
cone, Frankfurt 21754,

Chief, Budget Analysis Section: Mr. C. W.
Phythian, Frankfurt 21135.

Chief, Fiscal Control Section: Mr, H. W.

Graham, Frankfurt 21048.

Chief, Procurement Requirements Section: Mr.
V. C. Jones, Frankfurt 22234,

Chief, Reimbursement Analysis Section: Mr.
F, W. Blanchette, Frankfurt 21144.

Chief, Audit Section: Mr. H. L. Karns, Frank-
furt 21169,

Miss Helen Brand,

Ww. M. Pillsbury, Berlin

Section: (vacancy), Berlin

D. G. White,

Office of Personnel Officer

Personnel Officer; Col. James T. Duke, Ber-
lin 42897, f

Executive Officer: Major Reginald J. Rivard,
Berlin 43916.

Chief, Administrative Branch: Miss Rachael
F, Jones, Berlin 42651.

Acting Chief, Reports Section:
Wilkins, Berlin 42679.

Acting Chief, Civilian Personnel Branch: Mr.
W. H. Carpenter, Berlin 42085.

Acting Chief, Classification Section: Mr. W.
J. Richter, Berlin 42677.

Chief, Employee Relations Section: Mr. Paul
G, Lutzeier, Berlin 44325.

Acting Chief, Recruitment & Placement Sec-
tion: Miss Frances M. Moan, Berlin 43688.

Chief, Regulations & Procedures Section:
(vacancy), Berlin 43471.
Chief, Civilian Payroll Section; Mr. John W.
‘Warner, in 42969.
Chief, Civilian Leave
Berlin 43713.

Acting Chief, Status Section: Miss Edith M.
Diggs, Berlin 43805.

Chief, Military Personnel Branch: Capt. John
J. Carollo, Berlin 44471.

Chief, Indigenous Personnel Branch: (va-
cancy), Berlin 43471.

Office of the Adjutant General

Adjutant General: Lt. Col. George H. Garde,
Berlin 42031.

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Frederick A. Sturm,
Berlin 43197.

Personnel Officer:
Berlin 43070.

Chief, Miscellaneous Branch:
S. Meek, Berlin 42302.

25

Miss Mary

Section: (vacancy),

Mrs. Louise D. Larsen,

Capt. Hibbs

Assistent Chief:
Berlin 42302.
Chief, Military Personnel Branch: Capt. Er-

win M. Shaffer, Berlin 43022,

Chief, Reference Library: Mr. Henry A, Dun-
lap, Berlin 44083,

Chief, Travel Branch: Major John B. Mallon,
Berlin 44038,

Chief, Orders Section: Mr,
Coughlin, Berlin 43863,

Chief, Combined Travel Board: Mr, Jean J.
Chenard, Bad Rothenfelde 149,

CTB Branch Office Berlin: Chief, Mr, Her-
bert G, Pratt, Berlin 44011.

CTB Branch Office Hesse: Chief, Mr. Richard
W. White, Wiesbaden 8341, ext. 299.

CTB. Branch Office Wuerttemberg-Baden:
Chief: Mr, Frank H. Cornelie, Stuttgart
90751, ext. 318.

CTB Branch Office Bremen: Chief, Mr. Wal-
ter J. Thimm, Bremen 20670,

CTB Branch Office Bavaria: Chief, Mr. Jacob
J, Urman, Munich 4249.

Chief, Publications Branch: Mr,
Richardson, Berlin 43508.

Chief, Printing Plant: CWO Herman Eck,
Berlin 3538,

Chief, Lithograph Plant:
monde, Berlin 42582.
Chief, Records Branch: Capt. Robert E, Reed,

Berlin 44371.

Chief, Cable Control Brands: Mr, Charles R.
Bakey, Berlin 42250.

Cable Monitor (night shift):
H, Davis, Berlin 42320,
Chief, Message Control Branch: Capt. Homer

C. Kelso, Berlin 43761.

CwoO Frank D. Spannraft,

Eugene F.

Monroe M.

Mr. Joseph F, Ges-

ist Lt. James

Office of Inspector General

Inspector General: Col. Walter E. Jenkins,

Berlin 43627,

Office of the Director of Intelligence

Director: Col. Peter P, Rodes, Berlin 43851.

Deputy Director and Chief, Analysts & Re-
search Branch: Mr, Innis D, Harris, Nurem-
berg 61535.
Chief, ODDI EUCOM Requirements Branch:
Mr. Donald H. Cooper, Nuremberg 61534.
General Intelligence Analyst: Miss Esther
M. Metzenthin, Nuremberg 61533,

Chief, Security Branch: Lt. Col. J. F. Eason,
Nuremberg 61539.

Liaison Officer; Mr. J. S. Arouet, Nuremberg
61524,

Special Project Branch: Mr,
Berlin 43925.

Special Project Branch: Miss Ann Goodwin,
Berlin 43670.

Chief, Administration Branch: WOJG Robert
Baker, Nuremberg 61538.

Intelligence Analysts:

Political: Mr. Hans A, Kallmann, Nuremberg
61540.

Economical; Mr. Anthony Geber, Nuremberg
61528,

Sociological: Mr.

Thomas Mays,

Edward J. Arndt, Nurem-

berg 61532.
Financial: Mr. Louis Mark, Jr., Nuremberg
61627.

Office of Director of Political Affairs

Director: Mr. James W. Riddleberger, Berlin
42129.

Special Assistant: Mr, Bernard Gufler, Ber-
lin 42701.

Executive Officer: Mr.
Frankfurt 8298.

Personnel Officer: Miss
mann, Frankfurt 8569.

Personnel Assistant: Miss Mary Kellogg, Ber-
lin 43155.

Assistant Administrative Officer: Mr.
F. Rieger, Berlin 44608.

Alexander Mclver,
Eleanor C. Berg-
John

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Special. Disbursing Agent: Mr.
Rice, Jr., Frankfurt 8301.

Military Liaison Office; 1st Lt. Leon J. Barat,
Berlin 43150.

Chief, Political Branch: Mr,
Berlin 44092.

Chief, Economic Branch: Mr.
tenbein, Berlin 43182.

Chief, Frankfurt-POLAD: Mr.
Lockling, Frankfurt 6135.

Civil Air Attaché: Mr. Milton M,. Turner,
Berlin 43360.

Chief, Press & Public Relations: Mr. Thomas
B, Wenner, Berlin 43844,

Political Officer (Baden-Baden): Mr.
de W. Mayer, Baden-Baden 2544,
Economic Liaison Officer (Frankfurt) Mr. We-

ley C. Haraldson, Frankfurt 8803.

Chief, Consular Branch: Mr. Marshall M.
Vance, consul general, Frankfurt 21601.
Chief, Berlin Consular Branch: Mr, Francis

A. Lane, Berlin 43437.
Chief, Visa Section: Mr. Kenneth P, T, Sul-
livan, Berlin 43691.

Charles M.

Perry Laukhuff,

James W. Gan-

William Bruce

Emest

Chief, ‘Notatials and Welfare: Mr, Francis
A, Lane, Berlin 43437.
Chief, Citizenship Section: Mr. Eugene

A. McAuliffe, Berlin 43438,
Chief, Consular and Property Protection:
Mrs, D, Lampe, Berlin 43487.

Consular Offices

Berlin: Mr, Francis A. Lane,
43437, .

Bremen: Mr. Maurice W. Altaffer,
general, Bremen 20779,

Bremerhaven: Mr. Robert B. Houston, Jr.,
vice consul, Bremerhaven 21578,

consul, Berlin

consul

Frankfurt: Mr, Marshall M. Vance, consul
general, Frankfurt 21601.
Hamburg: Mr. Edward M. Groth, consul

general, Hamburg 34-4661.

Munich: Mr, Sam E. Woods, consul general,
Munich 2417.

Stuttgart: Mr, James R.
general, Stuttgart 93-664.

Wilkinson, consul

Public Information Office

Director: Mr. William Haggard, Berlin 43342.

Executive Officer: Mr, William R. Hunter,
Berlin 43450.

Chief, News Branch: Mr, William J. Caldwell,
Berlin 43606.

Chief, German News Branch: Mr,
B, Shubert, Bemlin 45216.

Administrative Officer; Miss Mabel Klouda,
Berlin 43433,

Leonard

Office of the Economics Adviser

Adviser: Mr. L. Wilkinson, Berlin 42683.

Deputy Economics Adviser: Mr. Phillips
Hawkins, Berlin 43773,

Special Assistant for Policy Coordination:
Mr. F. S. Hannaman, Berlin 42783,

Executive Officer: 1st Lt. Fred B. Schoomaker,
Berlin 42700.

Chief, Administration Section:
Jones, Berlin 43202,

Chief, Central Secretariat: Mr. R. A. Steele,
Berlin 42982,

Chief, Food & Agriculture Group: Dr. J. B.
Canning, Berlin 42859 & 43554.

Acting Chief, Industry Group: Mr. F. L. Mayer,
Berlin 42308,

Chief, Communications
Merrill, Berlin 42469,

Chief, Scientific Research Group: Mr. C. H.
Nordstrom, Berlin 43243,

Acting Chief, Transport Group: Mr. B. F.

Ss.

Capt. E. W.

Group: Mr. E, H.

Didsson, Berlin 42655.
Chief, Reports & Statistics Group: Mr. H.
Barlerin, Berlin 43626,

Office of the Finance Adviser
Finance Adviser: Mr. Jack Bennett, Berlin
45451

Deputy to the Finance Adviser: Mr. Jo Fisher
Freeman, Berlin 42127,

Executive Officer: Mr. C. C. Caldwell, Berlin
42169,

Administrative Chief: Mr. R. B. Christensen,
Berlin 42591,

Chief, Secretariat: Miss G. A. L. Beck, Berlin
42248,

Chief, Foreign Exchange Policy Group: Mr.
W.'S. Balderston, Berlin 43731.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Acting Chief, Internal Finance Policy Group:
Mr, Ralph McCabe, Berlin 43169.

Chief, Financial Intelligence Group: Mr. Emil
Lang, Berlin 42192,

Chief, Central Bank Group: Mr,
Conrad, Frankfurt 22805.

Acting Chief, Foreign Exchange Depository
Group: Mr, Edwin P. Keller, Frankfurt 21191.

Office of Naval Adviser

Commander of US Naval Forces in Germany
and Naval Adviser: Rear Admiral John
Wilkes, USN, Berlin 42416,

Deputy Naval ‘Adviser and Senior Technical
Officer: Capt, J.P. Thew, USN, Berlin 42363.

Intelligence Officer: Capt. A. H. Graubart,
USN, Berlin 43220.

Assistant Technical Intelligence Officer: Comdr.
H, B, Blackwood, USN, Berlin 42314.

Assistant Technical Officen: Lt, Comdr. N. M.
Cooke, USN, Berlin 42315.

Assistant Intelligence Officer: _ Lt.
E. G. Riedel, USN, Berlin 42387.

Transportation’ and’ Personnel Officer: Lt.
(jg) W. L. Crawford, USN, Berlin 42221.

Aide and Flag Lieutenant: Lt. (jg) L. R. Pa-
velka, USN, Berlin 42416.

Henry .C.

Comdr.

Armed Forces Division

Director: Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges, USAF,
Berlin 43934.

Deputy Director: Capt. Joseph P, Thew, USN,
Berlin 42860,

Chief, Executive Branch: Mr. G, B. Robbins,
Berlin 43036,

Deputy Chief,
Section: Mr.
43013.

Chief, Reports & Statistics Section: Miss E.
Luise Shawn, Berlin 45168,

Chief, Army Branch: Lt. Col. Glen W. Camp-
bell, Berlin 43013,

Chief, Air Forces Branch: Lt.
Steadman, Berlin 42062,

Chief, Navy Branch: Capt. Joseph P, Thew
USN, Berlin 42860.

Chief,’ Civil Aviation Branch: Mr, Thomas
D. Johnson, Wiesbaden 21341, ext. 444.

Chief, Economics Regulations Section: Mr.
John S. Parker, Wiesbaden 21341, ext. 448,

Chief, Airways Operations Section: Mr. Leon-
ard'N. Morris, Wiesbaden 21341, ext. 441.

Chief, Airways Engineering Section: Mr.
L, ‘Meade Hammond, Wiesbaden 21341,
ext. 443.

Chief, Military Government Civil Airport
Section Bavaria: Mr, Charles Daily, Munich
2681, ext. 505/595,

Acting Chief, Military Government Civil
Airport Section Wuerttemberg-Baden: Mr.
John Cullen, Stuttgant 93955, ext. 258.

Berlin Liaison Officer: Mr. James J. Ferretti,
Berlin 42111.

Chief, Meteorological Branch: Mr, Clayton
Van Thulienar, Bad Kissingen 2271, ext. 67.

Chief, Instruments & Supply Section: Mr. J. E.
Gallagher, Bad Kissingen 2271, ext. 67.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Dr. E, H. Litchfield, Berlin 42576.

Deputy Director for Operations: Mr. H.
Philip Mettger, Nuremberg 61253.

US Representative, Tripartite Liaison Group:
Dr, E. H. Litchfield, Frankfurt 8230.

Alternate US Member: Dr. Hans Simons,
Frankfurt 8685.

Deputy Director for Bizonia and Govern-
mental Affairs Adviser: Mr. Kenneth Dayton,
Frankfurt 8429,

Assistant Adviser: Mr, Anton Pabsch, Frank-
furt 8429,

Assistant Adviser: Mr.
Frankfurt 8728.

Acting Executive Officer: Mr,
Tesmer, Berlin 45364.

Chief, Secretarlat Branch: Mr.
Forest, Berlin 45202.
Associated Chief: Mr.

Frankfurt 8064.

Chief, Governmental Structures Branch: Dr.
H. Simons, Frankfurt 8685.

Chief, Legislation Branch: Mr. D.
Berlin 43557.

Chief, Political Activities Branch: Mr.
Elliott, Nuremberg 61300,

Chief, Population & Analysis Branch: Mr. Karl

Shafer, Nuremberg 61315.

26

Administrative
Berlin

and Chief,
Robert B. Burroughs,

Col. B. E.

Sam Wahrhatftig,
F. Joseph
Alexander

W. Thad Lovett,

Hunter,

John

Assistant Chief:
61314.

Chief, Civil Service & Administrative Court
Branch: Mr. Elisworth C. Wolfsperges,
Frankfurt 8205. .

Chief, Evaluation Section: Mr. H. W. Thon,
Frankfurt 8283. .

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr, Theo’
E, Hall, Berlin 42583,

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. L. McCraw, Nure:
128s, mberg

Chief, Police & Fire Section: Mr. U, ¢
Urton, Nuremberg 61248. "

Chief, Public Health Branch; Col. M. T. Kubin
Nuremberg 61304. "

Deputy Chief: Lt. Col. W. R. de Forest, Nur.
emberg 61304,

Chief, Nutrition Section: Maj. Robert Ryer,
Nuremberg 61305, ‘

Chief, Narcotics Control Section: Mr. Charles
Dyar, Nuremberg 61305.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mrs. Mildred
B, Smith, Nuremberg 61250,

Deputy Chief: Mr, T. M. Willcox, Nuremberg
61250. - .

Chief, Displaced Persons Branch: Mr.
Kelly, Berlin 42175,

Displaced Persons Officer:
Berlin 45411.

Mr, L. Kamsky, Nuremberg

LG.
Mr. E. Glazier,

+ Chief, Refugee Section: Mr. G. Weisz,
Nuremberg 61302,
Chief, Civil Liberties & Democratization

Branch; Dr. Harold W. Landin, Nuremberg
61292,

Education & Cultural Relations Div.

Director: Dr. Alonzo G. Grace, Berlin 43981
and Nuremberg 61241.

Deputy Director: Dr. Milton E. Muelder,
Berlin 42134 and Nuremberg 61241.

Executive Officer: James L. Sexton, Berlin
42034,
Assistant Deputy for Administration: Mr.

Daniel Ignatoff, Nuremberg 61243.
Assistant Administrative Officer: Miss Con-
stance A. Cole, Nuremberg 61242.
Assistant Administrative Officer:
McInnis, Nuremberg 61644,
Administrative Assistant: Mr.
Berlin 42158,
Personnel Officer:
berg 61244,
Reports & Information Specialist: Mr. Thomas
J. Mulvehill, Nuremberg 61322.
Information & Editorial Specialist: Mr. Harry
A, Jacobs, Nuremberg 61322.
Chief, Research and Planning: Dr.
Strevell, Nuremberg 61353.
Statistics Research: Dr, Robert D. Howard,
Nuremberg 61347.
Secondary Education: Dr, Hal
Nuremberg 61345.

Mr. Ralph
Milton Smith,
Mrs.

Ethel Eliot, Nurem-

Wallace

G. Lewis,

Chief, Cultural Affairs Branch; Mr. Eric T.
Clarke, Berlin 43410.

Special Projects Coordinator: Mr. Therom
‘A, Johnson, Nuremberg 61328,

Cultural Exchange Specialist: Miss Trude

Guenther, Nuremberg 61326.

Personnel Exchange Section: Mr. Frank Banta,
Nuremberg 61326.

Personnel Exchange Section: Mr.
Parker, Nuremberg 61324.

Material Exchange Section: Mr. John B. Rhind,
Nuremberg 61323, ;

Theater Section: Dr. Eugene E, Bahn, Berlin
42642.

Music Section: Mr, John Evarts, Berlin 43431.

Chief, Education Branch: Dr. John O. Riedl
Nuremberg 61340.

Deputy Chief: Dr, Lester K. Ade,
berg 61338. _

Agriculture and Home Economics Specialist:
Dr. George W. Ware, Nuremberg 61343.

Secondary Education: Dr. William L. Wrinkle,
Nuremberg 61345.

Teacher Training: Dr.
Nuremberg 61341.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr.
Olsen, Nuremberg 61357.

Evangelical Affairs: Dr, Theodore E. Bach
man, Nuremberg 61356.

Catholic Affairs: Dr.
Nuremberg 61359.

Interfaith Relations: Dr. Sterling W. Brow®
Nuremberg 61360.

James B.

Nurem-

Herman L, Offner

Arild

Urban H, Fleege

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 30 ---
Chief, Group Activities Branch: Mr.
Norrie, Nuremberg 61336,
Adult Education: Mr. C,
Nureniberg 61329.
Youth Activities (Girls): Dr. Elizabeth P. Lam,
Nuremberg 61331.
Chief, Womens. Affairs: Mrs. Lorena B. Hahn,
Nuremberg 61332,
Womens Affairs:
Berlin 42152.
Chief, Education and Cultural Service Section:
Mr. Sam H. Linch, Nuremberg 61342,

L. E.

L. Van der Bie,

Mrs. Elizabeth G. Holt,

Librarian: Miss Virginia Yates, Nuremberg
61348,
Textbook Analyst: Miss Minni Warke,

Nuremberg 61344,
Textbook Specialist: Mr. Everett S. Maxwell,
Nuremberg 61344,

Information Services Division

Director: Col. Gordon E. Textor, Berlin 42258.
Deputy Director: Mr. Thomas P, Headen,
Berlin 43102.

Deputy Director for Policy: Mr.
Boerner, Berlin 44179.
Executive Officer: Lt.
Berlin 42259,
Administrative Officer: Mr.
Berlin 43104.

Personnel Officer: Mr.
Berlin 43426.

Chief, Overt Management Branch: Mr. Daniel
G. Mulloney, Berlin 44403,

Chief, Budget & Control Section: Mr. Frede-
ri& J. Cavanaugh, Berlin 43558.

Chief, Production Section: Mr. Fred B. Blei-
stein, Berlin 44294,

Chief, Fiscal Management, Section: Mr, John
A. Kidder, Berlin 43452,

Chief, Publishing Operations Branch: Mr. Jack
Fleisher, Munich 2320,

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr, Charles S, Lewis,
Berlin 43430,

Deputy Radio Program Officer:
Parson, Berlin 44415.

» Chief, Radio Central Control: Mr. Hans B.

Meyer, Berlin 44454.

Alfred V.
Col. A. D. Poinier,
James B. Jones,

Harold A, Huber,

Mrs, Ruby

Technical Control Officer: Mr. Harold C.
Wright, Frankfurt 50301 ext. 282/21981
ext. 355,

Deputy for Zonal Affairs, Plans & Directives
Branch: Mr. Charles C, Baldwin, Berlin 42268.

Chief, Reports Section: Mn, James G. Rogers,
Berlin 43429,

Personnel Control, Officer:
Butler, Nuremberg 61015.
Chief, Political Information Branch: Mp. F.
Lawrence Babcode, Berlin 44724.

Program Specialist: "Mz, Melvin Lasky, Berlin

13.

Miss Frances

Film, Theater & Speaker: Mr.
Fodor, Berlin 42268,

Chief, US Feature Service: Mp
Amot, Nuremberg 61074.
Chief, ISD Nuremberg: Mr.
Nuremberg 61068.

Chief, Publications Branch: Mr.
Waples, Nuremberg 61501.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Arthur Eggleston,
Nuremberg 61079.
Chief, Opinion Surveys Branch: Mn, Leo P.
Crespi, Nuremberg 61052,

Marcel M.
Charles
Bruce Buttles,

Douglas

Research Analyst: Mr, Frederick Swift, Nur-
emberg 61037.
Chief, Field Staff: Mr. Fred W. Trembour,

Nuremberg 61042,

Chief, Information Centers and Exhibitions
Branch: Mrs. Patricia Van Delden, Nurem-
berg 61015,

Chief, Motion Picture Branch: Mr, Eric Pom-
mer, Munich 4521/Berlin 44613,

Executive Officer: Mr, Nils Nilson, Munich
4521/Berlin 42596.
Chief, Documentary Film Unit: Mr. Stuart

HY Schulberg, Berlin 3466.

Legal Division

Director: Col, John M. Raymond, Berlin 42456.
Associate Director: Mr. William E, McCurdy,
Berlin 42276,
ensultant to the Legal Adviser: Mr. Samuel
Kramer, Berlin 43461.
Administrative Officer; (vacancy) Berlin 42358.

*eports Officer: Miss Carla H. Eddy, Berlin
Ubrarian: Miss Marjorie N. Robbins, Berlin
42404,

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

.

Chief, Legal Advice Branch: Mr. James E.
Heath, Berlin 42352.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Harry H. Mitchell, Berlin
42361.

Chief, General Law Section: (vacancy).
Chief, German Law Section; Mr. Gerhard
Husserl, Berlin 45042.
Chief, Legislation Branca:

44614,
Acting Deputy Chief: (vacancy), Berlin 44614.
Chief, German Legislation Section: Mr. Wal-
ter E, Menke, Berlin 44525,
Chief, MG Legislation Section:
G. ‘Avery, Berlin 42178.

Chief, Administration of Justice Branch: Mr.
Mortimer Kollender, Nuremberg 61494.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Jonathan B, Rintels, Nur-
emberg 61492,

Chief, German Justice Section: Mr. Hans W.
‘Weigert, Nuremberg 61489.

Chief, MG _ Justice Section:
Nuremberg.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. T. Wade Markley,
Nuremberg 61495.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Edgar M. Gerlach, Nur-
emberg 61497.

Manpower Division

Director: Mr, Leo R. Werts, Berlin 42454.

Executive Officer: (vacancy), Berlin 42410.

Administrative Assistant: Miss Lufa B. Murphy:
Berlin 42503.

Consultant, (Information to German Trade
Unions); Mr. Nels Anderson, Berlin 43326.

Chief, Secretariat: Miss Mary Lou Slusher,
Berlin 43642.

Chief, Wages, Labor Standards Branch: Mr.
Earl R. Beciner, Berlin 42430.

Chief, Labor Relations Branch: Mr, John K.
Meskimen, Berlin 43701.

Chief, Employee Organization Section: Mr.
George Silver, Berlin 43698,

Chief, Reports’ & Statistics Branch (Trade
Union Reports): Mr. Albert H, Berman,
Berlin 42507.

Property Division

Director: Mr. Phillips Hawkins, Berlin 43773.

Deputy Director: Mr. E, J. Cassoday, Berlin
43684,

Executive Officer; Mr.
43678,

Special Assistant to Director: Mr. Frank J.
Miller, Berlin 43750,

Administrative Officer: Mr, Harry L. Carper,
Berlin 43610.

Chief, Reparations & Restitution Branch: Mr.
Onren R. McJunkins, Berlin 43050,

Deputy Chief: Mr, Frederic G, Draper,
Berlin 43051.

Deputy Chief for Cultural Restitution (MFA
& A): Mr. Richard F. Howard, Karlsruhe
617 ext, 251. ;

Deputy Chief for Industrial Restitution: Mr.
Klaus de Keyserlingk, Karlsruhe 617 ext, 242.

Chief, Property Control & External Assets
Branch: Mr. Fred E, Hartzsch, Wiesbaden
8341-9 ext. 436. ;

Associate Chief: Mr. Samuel M. Rose, Wies-
baden 8341-9 ext, 435. ;

Deputy Chief: Mr. William G, Danfels,. Wies-
baden 8341-9 ext. 437.

Chief, Central Filing Agency (Zentralmelde-
amt): Mr. Bernard Fischbein, Bad Nauheim
5093.

Office of Chief of Counsel

for War Crimes
(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)

Chief of Counsel: Brig. Gen. Telford Taylor,
Justice 61117.

Executive Counsel; Mr, Alexanden G. Hardy,
Justice 61125,
Executive Officer:
Justice 61120.
Director, Document Disposal Division: Mr.

Fred Niebergall, Justice 61406.

Director, Economics Ministries Division (De-
puty Chief of Counsel): Mr. Morris
Amchan, Justice 61216.

Director, Political Ministries Division (De-
puty Chief of Counsel): Dr, Robert M. W.
Kempner, Justice 61127, .

Director, Publications Division (Deputy Chief
of Counsel): Mr. Drexel A. Sprecher,
Justice 61136,

(vacancy), Berlin

Mr. Albert

(vacancy),

F. G. Hulse, Berlin

Capt. Donald T. Paul,

27

Director, Publications Division (German
Edition): Mr. Paul H. Gantt, Justice 61140.

Director, Public Relations Division and Public
Information Officer: Mr. Eugene Phillips,
Justice 61261,

Director, Reproduction Division: Mn,
G, F. Rehberg, Justice 61028,

Civilian Personnel Officer; Miss Sara L. Krus-
kall, Justice 61736.

Military Tribunals
(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)
Executive Presiding Judge: Judge William C.
Christiansen, Justice 61624.
Military Tribunal IV (Ministries Case).
Presiding: Judge William C. Christiansen,
Justice 61624.
Judge Robert F. Maguire, Justice 61610.
Judge Leon W. Powers, Justice 61608.
Military Tribunal V (High Command Case).
Presiding: Judge John C. Young, Justice 61585.
Judge Justin W. Harding, Justice 61584,
Judge Winfield B. Hale, Justice 61587,

Erich

Secretary General
for Military Tribunals

(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)
Secretary General of Tribunals: Dr. Howard H.
Russell, Justice 61281.
Executive Officer: Lt. Col. Herbert N. Holsten,
Justice 61280.
Marshal of the Courts:

Capt.
Jenckes, Justice 61595,

Kenyon s.

Director, Defense Information Center: Maj.
Robert G. Schaefer, Justice 61550.
Director, Language Division: Mr. Hanns E.

Gleichman, Justice 61106.
Chief, Court Archives: Mrs. Barbara S. Mandel-
laub, Justice 61272.

US Military Governments
Courts
(Nuremberg, APO 696-A)
Chief Judge: Mr. William Clark, Nuremberg
61590.

Secretary General for Courts Administration:
Dr. Howard H. Russell, Nuremberg 61282.
Executive Officer, Secretary General: Major

Robert G. Schaefer, Nuremberg 61591,
Chief Attorney (Legal Division, OMGUS): Mr.
Worth B. McCauley, Nuremberg 61589.

Bipartite Board
(Berlin, APO 742)

US Member: General Lucius D. Clay, Berlin
42481. .

Bipartite Secretariat

US Secretary: Major W. E. Mather, Berlin
42078.

Acting Deputy US Secretary: Mr. J. F. Golay,
Berlin 44591.

Assistant US Secretary: Mr. Thorley C. Mills,
Berlin 42224.

Assistant US Secretary: Mr. Douglas S. Sher-
win, Berlin 43697,

Assistant US Secretary: Mr. J. J. Coale, Be.lia
43652. .

Assitant US Secretary: Mr. Ernest Wiener,
Berlin 42291.

Bipartite Control Office
(Frankfurt, APO 757)
Office of US Chairman

Chairman: Mr. C. L. Adcock, Frankfurt 8872.

Deputy Chairman: Mr. R. K. Phelps, Frankfurt
8320.

Executive Officer; Mr. W. M. Kane, Frankfurt
8025.

Economics Adviser: Mr. F. C. Wright, Jr,
Frankfurt 8449.

Governmental Affairs Adviser: Mr. K. Dayton,
Frankfurt 8429.

Legal Adviser: Mr. R. D. Kearney, Frankfurt
8938.

US Secretariat

Chief: Mr. E, Linde, Frankfurt 8895,

Deputy Chief: Mr. R. Wallach, Frankfurt 8938.

Administrative Officer: Mr. J. F. Egnation,
Frankfurt 8798,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Chief, Bipartite Meetings: Miss H. V. Graham,
Frankfurt 8087.

Chief, Coordination (w/Groups): Mr. R. Walsh,
Frankfurt 8920.

Chief, German Liaison: Mr. H. Wolbier, Frank-
furt 8253.

ERP Secretariat (US Element)

Planning Officer & ERP Secretary: Lt. Col..E
H. Harrelson, Frankfurt 8671.

Assistant Planning Officer & ERP Secretary:
Mr. Richey, Frankfurt 8863.

Management and Budget Office

Chief: Mr. E. L. MacDonald, Frankfurt 8047.

Public Information Office

Chief: Mr. S. L. Freeland, Frankfurt 8523.

Deputy Chief: Mr. T. Meltzer, Frankfurt 8677.

Reports Office

Chief: Dr. C. B. Millican, Frankfurt 8057.

Historian: Dr. S. Ganzert, Frankfurt 8563.

Deputy Historian: Mr. P. Muschamp, Frankfurt
8563.

Administrative Services Branch

Chief: Mr. R. E. Brant, Frankfurt 8144.

Office of the Adjutant General

Adjutant General: Lt. Col. G. M. Weir, Frank-
furt 8415,

Administrative Officer:
Frankfurt 8772.

Cable Control Officer: Mr. M. A. Judge, Frank-
furt 8421.

Mail, Message & Records Officer: Mr. K, L.
Kluger, Frankfurt 8958.

Publication Officer: Mr.
6312.

Clearance & Orders Office: Miss M. Scelsi,
Frankfurt 8504,

Office of the Personnel Officer, OMGUS

Chief, Frankfurt Branch: Mr. John E. Tromer,
Frankfurt 8191.

Office of UK Chairman

Chairman: Lt. Gen. Sir G. N. Macready, Frank-
furt 8169.

Deputy Chairman: Mr. D. L. Anderson, Frank-
furt 8394,

Legal Adviser: Mr. H. Rose, Frankfurt 8938.

Legal Assistant: Dr. B. Wolff, Frankfurt 8938.

Political Adviser: Mr. C. D. W. O'Neill, Frank-
furt 8833,

Diplomatic Secretary, German Liaison Branch:
Mr. D. R. Ashe, Frankfurt 8344.

Head, Government Affairs Branch: Mr. W.
Fliess, Frankfurt 8069.

Deputy Head: Mr. C. P. Hardacre, Frankfurt
8905.

Administrative Officer:
Frankfurt 8014.

UK Secretariat

Secretary BICO: Col. L. C. M. Nash, Frankfurt
8291.

Deputy Secretary: Mr. G. S. Scarlett, Frank-
furt 8518.

Head, “‘A" Section (Policy, Meetings and
General): Miss J. Thompson, Frankfurt 8639.

Head, ‘‘B’ Section (Coordination with BICO
Groups): Mr. A. J. Gilbert, Frankfurt 8560.

Head, Economic Staff: Mr. H. R. Moulton,
Frankfurt 8568.

ERP Secretariat (UK Element)

Secretary: Mr. H. R. Moulton, Frankfurt 8568.

Deputy Secretary: Mr. A. R. Straughen, Frank-
furt 8510.

Information Services Division

S.1.S.0.: Mr. D. M. Stewart, Frankfurt 8328.

Chief Press Officer: Mr. K. Hunt, Frankfurt
8287.

Monthly Reports Section

Reports Officer: Miss I. E. C. Roper, Frank-
furt 8873.

Capt. E. R. Ates,

A. Roth, Frankfurt

Miss J. Alsworth,

Commerce and Industry Group

Chief: Mr, L. E. Spencer (US), Frankfurt 8370.

Deputy Chief: Brig. E. V. Daldy (UK), Frank-
furt 8754.

Chief, Secretariat: Mr. H. V. Brennen, Frank-
furt 8061.

Chief, Administration Branch: Mr. G. C. Dickin-
son, Frankfurt 8885.

Chief, Commerce Branch: A/Cdr. J. P. Cole-
man, Frankfurt 8683.:

Deputy Chief: Mr. K. H. Stroh, Frankfurt 8734.

Chief, Foreign Trade: Mr. A. L. Downdon,

Frankfurt 8487.

Chief, Internal Trade: Mr. E. I. Oliver, Frank-
furt 8940.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Chief, Interzonal Trade: Mr. J. B. Zahner,
Frankfurt 8457. x

Chief, Price Control Section; Mr. L. B. Lovell,
Frankfurt 8760.

Chief, Fuel and Power Branch: Mr. F. K.
McQueary, Frankfurt 8619.

Chief, Coal Section: Mr. V. R. Shrigley, Frank-
furt 8576.

Chief, Oil Section: Mr. L. R. Hulls, Frankfurt
8358.

Deputy Chief: Mr. E. Herbert, Frankfurt 8358.

Chief, Public Utilities Section: Mr. W. Kelly,
Frankfurt 8361.

Chief, Electricity Section: Mr.
william, Frankfurt 8378.

Chief, Gas & Civil Engineering Section: Mr.
H. D. Greenwood, Frankfurt 8615.

Chief, Industry & Production Branch: Mr. A. S.
Radford, Frankfurt 8667.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Olav Maseng, Frankfurt
8023.

Chief, Chemical Industries: Dr. J. E. G. Harris,
Frankfurt 8865.

Chief, Consumer Industries: Mr. J. L. Schuman,
Frankfurt 8368.

Leather: Mr. H. S. Stebbing, Frankfurt 8766.

Glass & Ceramics: Mr. F, A. Whitaker, Frank-
furt 8384.

Paper, Pulp & Printing: Mr.
Frankfurt 8459.

Woodworking: Mr. F. H. Blackburn, Frankfurt
8770.

Textiles: Mr. R. A. Mortimore, Frankfurt 8788.

Rubber: Mr. E. K, Baker, Frankfurt 8869.

Chief, Engineering Industries; Mr. S. Poole,
Frankfurt 8796.

Electrical Engineering: Mr.
Frankfurt 8889.

Mechanical Engineering: Mr.
Frankfurt 8861.

Mechanical Engineering: Mr. N. H. Gorton,
Frankfurt 8261.

Optics & Fine Mechanics: Mr. Dag Horn, Frank-
furt 8661.

Shipbuilding: Mr. R. K. Duncan, Frankfurt 8003.

Shipbuilding: Mr. D. D. Leitch, Frankfurt 8003.

Transport Supplies: Mr. J. Xule, Frankfurt
8879,

Chief, Metal Industries: Mr. A. C. Hall, Frank-
furt 8380.

Iron & Steel: Mr. H. E. Brown, Frankfurt 8412.

Non-Ferrous Metals: Mr. R. F. Rennie, Frank-
furt 8374,

Scrap Metal Program: Mr. A. Hirsch, Frankfurt
849:

M. S. Fitz-

T. J. Crowell,

R. H. O. Lee,

C. N. Downing,

Chief, OMGSTEG Branch: Mr. J. C. Cunning-
ham, Frankfurt 8716,

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. R. Mahder, Frankfurt
8792.

Chief, Ammunition Recoveries: Mr. M. Rapkin,
Munich 4287.

Chief, Depot Control Section: Mr. E. E. Hard-
ing, Frankfurt 8697.

Chief, Finance Accounting Control Section: Mr.
I. S. Smith, Frankfurt 8423.

Chief, Mechanical Equipment Section: Mr. C.
R. Jackson, Frankfurt 8825.

Chief, Metals Section; Mr. D. W. Federspiel,
Frankfurt 8613.

Chief, Property Accounting and Distribution
Section: Mr. A. Gruber, Frankfurt 8635.

OMGSTEG Officer, Bavaria: Mr. F. A. Bentley,
Munich 4265.

OMGSTEG Officer, Bremen: Mr. J. H. Snyder,
Bremen 2-0134.

OMGSTEG Officer, Hesse: Mr. R. L. Stith,
Wiesbaden 21341, ext. 244.

OMGSTEG Officer, Wuerttemberg - Baden: Mr.
H, E. Sprow, Stuttgart 40756, ext. 218.

Chief, Plans & Allocations Branch: Dr. K. R.
Bode, Frankfurt 8744.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Francesco M. Bianco, Frank-
furt 8469.

Coal Allocation: Mr. B. C. Atkins, Frankfurt
8588.

Steel Allocation; Mr. F. M. Bianco, Frankfurt
8712.

Chief, Building Materials Allocation Section:
Mr. P. E, Buckingham, Frankfurt 8817.

Chief, ERP Section: Mr. H. W. Howell, Frank-
furt 8803.

Chief, Import-Export Section: Dr. P. G. Horm-
berg, Frankfurt 8732.

Deputy Chief: Dr. A. H. Langride, Frankfurt
8807.

28

Chief, Mandatory Requirements (UK): Mr, R,
S. Brown, Frankfurt 8817.

Chief, Military Requirements Section (US); Lf.
Col. J. K., Flemming, Frankfurt 8752, "

Deputy Chief: Mr. H. Murray, Frankfurt 8113,

Chief, Research & Statistics Branch: Mr, F, p’
Hoeber, Frankfurt 8497.

Deputy Chief, Mr. J. H. West, Frankfurt 8473,

Chief, Forms Control Section: Mr. A. Wise,
Frankfurt 8887.

Chief, Reports
Frankfurt 8936.

Chief, Statistics Section: Mr.
Frankfurt 8437.

Section: Miss D. Naramere,

J. S. Smith,

Communications Group

Chief: Mr. L. G. Semple (UK), Frankfurt 8495,

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. P. Rapp (US), Frankfurt
8063.

Chief, Finance Branch: Mr. T. Wrangham,
Frankfurt 8928.

Financial Adviser: Mr. W. L. Slattery, Frank-
furt 8485.

Chief, Posts and Personnel Branch: Mr. P. R.
J. Marr, Frankfurt 8663.

Deputy Chief: Mr. D. J. Cotter,
8443,

Chief, Procurement Branch; Mr. R. B. McCurdy,
Frankfurt 8348.

Deputy Chief: Mr. W. B. Jago, Frankfurt 8130,

Chief, Reports and Statistics Branch: Mr. R.
Ransier, Frankfurt 8722.

Deputy Chief: Mr. F. W. Wilkinson, Frankfurt
8891.

Chief, Telecommunications
Campbell, Frankfurt 8592.

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. A. L. Nicholls, Frank-
furt 8904,

Frankfurt

Branch: Mr. J.

Finance Group

Chief: Mr. J. C. Brommage (UK), Frankfurt
8910.

Deputy Chief: Mr. H. P. Jones (US), Frankfurt
8831.

Chief, Secretariat: Miss C. H. Milne, Frank.
furt 8350.

Deputy Chief, Secretariat; Mrs. Z. Thurston,
Frankfurt 8123.

Chief, Financial Policy & Institution Branch:
Mr. H. C. F. Holgate, Frankfurt 8153.

Deputy Chief: Mr. R. P, March, Frankfurt 8267,

Chief, Research Section: Mr. N, L. Seligman,
Frankfurt 8177.

Chief, Public Finance Branch: Mr. A. M. Hill-
house, Frankfurt 8463.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. T. Lisle, Frankfurt 8398.

Chief, Audit Section: Mr. J. Wilson-Heathcote,
Frankfurt 8596.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. B. A. Robertson, Frank-
furt 8552.

Chief, Budget Section: Mr. J. O. Rees, Frank-
furt 8314,

Deputy Chief: Miss L. C. Bristow, Frankfurt

8173.

Chief, Tax & Revenue Section: Mr. H. W.
M. ‘Coperman, Frankfurt 8908.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J, Shen, Frankfurt 6193.

Food and Agriculture Group

Chief: Mr. S. Andrews (US), Frankfurt 8695.

Deputy Chief: Mr. G. E. Hughes (UK),
Frankfurt 8629.

Assistant Chief: (vacancy), Frankfurt 8710.

Assistant Chief: Mr. G. Garnett, Frankfurt

4,

Assistant Deputy Chief: Mr, P. G. H. Bar
ter, Frankfurt 8536.

OMGUS Liaison Officer: Dr.
Frankfurt 8207. ;

Special Assistant to Chief: Dr. C. Hammar
Frankfurt 8225.

Chief, Secretariat: Mr. H. A. Cullen, Frank-
furt 8465. z

Deputy Chief: Mrs. P. Welsh, Frankfurt 8645.

Chief, Agriculture & Organization Branch:
Mr. K, F. Taster, Frankfurt 8439.

Chief, Agriculture Production Section: Mr
J. Littlejohn, Frankfurt 8388.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. Mills, Frankfurt 8994.

Chief, Land Policy & Farm Organization
Section: Mr. C. Ross, Frankfurt 8948.

Chief, Allied Administration Branch: Mr. R-
C. Nichols, Frankfurt 8718.

Deputy Chief: Mr, N, S. Rogerson, Fra
furt 8031.

O. Pancoast,

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 32 ---
Chief, Food Planning & Statistics Branch:
Mr. B. A. Cash-Reed, Frankfurt 8536.

peputy Chief: Mr. K. Beachley, Frankfurt 8944,
Chief, Food Planning Section: Mr. van Dyke,
Frankfurt 8536.

Chief, Statistics Section: Mr. W. Ellington,
Frankfurt 8914.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. Steer, Frankfurt 8021.

Chief, Food Supply Branch: (vacancy),
Frankfurt 8710,

Deputy Chief: Mr. A. J. Hassell, Frank-
furt 8875.
Chief, Fisheries Control Section: Mr. C. Bai-

ley, Frankfurt 8441.
Chief, Food Planning & Distribution Section:
Mr. P. Quintus, Frankfurt 8441.
Chief, Forestry Branch: Mr. J.
Frankfurt 8990.
Deputy Chief: Mr. R. Rumney, Frankfurt 8489.
Chief, Inspectorate: (vacancy), Frankfurt 8835.
Chief, JEIA Representatives: Mr. William A.
Close, Frankfurt 8481.
Deputy Chief: Mr. L. O'Toole, Frankfurt 8441.

Kirchner,

Manpower Group
Chief: Mr. G. W. J.
furt 22645.

Deputy Chief: Mr. S. G. Wyhn (US), Frank-
furt 22478.

Chief, Secretariat & Administration: Mr. T.
E, Gucwa, Frankfurt 22838.

Chief, Housing and Building Representative:
Mr. H. M. Wood, Frankfurt 21770.

Cole (UK), Frank-

Chief, Labor Relations Branch: Mr. C. S.
Lovell, Frankfurt 22777.
Deputy Chief: Miss R. F. Maxson, Frank-

furt 22777.
Chief, Manpower Allocations Branch: Mr. E.
C. ‘Cullingford, Frankfurt 21076.

Deputy Chief: Mr. D. L. Snyder, Frankfurt
22773.

Chief, Reports & Statistics Branch: Mr. E.
L. Deuss, Frankfurt 22637. -

Deputy Chief: Mr. H. F. Chubb, Frank-
furt 22637.

“Chief, Social Insurance Branch: Mr.
Beatty, Frankfurt 22678.

Chief, Wages and Labor Standards Branch:
Mr. J. L. Harmon, Frankfurt 22760.
Deputy Chief: Mr. A. W. Loft, Frankfurt 21627.
Chief, OMGUS, Manpower Adviser's Office,
Frankfurt Branch: Mr. W. £. Northy,
Frankfurt 22059.

T. J.

Transport Group

Chief: Sir Robert Inglis (UK), Frankfurt 8009.
Deputy Chief: Mr. C. P. Gross (US), Frank-
furt 8407.

Chief, Secretariat & Distribution Branch:
Mr. F. J. Fallin, Frankfurt 8073.

Assistant Chief: Mr. W. G. Stokes, Frank-
furt 8073.

Executive Officer: Mr. T. G. Usborne, Frank-
furt 8356.

Deputy Executive Officer:
Hutchison, Frankfurt 8356.

Chief, Financial Adviser: Mr. A. H. Wilson,
Frankfurt 8514.

Major P. A.

Assistant Chief: Mr. A. Goudle, Frank-
furt 8514. ~
Chief, Highway Branch: Mr. E. B. Sutton,

Frankfurt 8445.

Deputy Chief: Mr. S. Middleton, Frank-
furt 8445.
Chief, Equipment Section: Mr. D. Clarke,

Frankfurt 8778.
Chief, Highways & Bridge Section: Mr.
Stuart Norman, Frankfurt 8778.
Chief, Highway Transport Governmental
Section: Mr. W. Etterley, Frankfurt 8578.
Chief, Operations Section: Mr. H. Jordan,
Frankfurt 8578.
Chief, Inland Water Transport Branch: Mr.
H. Calvert, Frankfurt 8801.

Deputy Chief: Mr. Allen Fore, Frankfurt 8039.
Chief, Commercial Accounts & Contracts
Section: Mr. C. C, Eaves, Frankfurt 8520.
Assistant Chief: Mr. W. K. Simpson, Frank-

furt 8520.
Chief, Engineer Stores & Ship Repair Section:
Mr. H.-J. Andrews, Frankfurt 8512.
Assistant Chief: Mr. J. E. OB. Echlin, Frank-
furt 8512.
Chief, Reports, Statistics & Plans Section:
Mr. W. H. Cooke, Frankfurt 8477.
Assistant Chief: Mr. A. J. Romano, Frank-
furt 8477,

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

" Assistant Chief:

Chief, Traffic Section: Mr. E. G. Dale,
Frankfurt 8360.

Assistant Chief: Mr. T. D. McGeary, Frank-
furt 8360.

Chief, Maritime, Ports and Shipping Branch:
Mr. G, H. McNeill, Frankfurt 8438.

Deputy Chief: Mr. A. A. McNichol, Frank-
furt 8890,
Chief, Plans, Coordination & Administration

Section: Mr. A. C. Clarke, Frankfurt 8633.
Chief, Ports Section: Mr. F. P. Scott, Frank-
furt 8601.
Deputy Chief: Mr. W. T. Staats, Frankfurt
8601.

Chief, Shipping Section: Mr.
Frankfurt 8403.

Assistant Chief: Mr. E. P. Alexander, Frank-
furt 8403.

Chief, Movements Branch: Mr. W. A. Fagan,
Frankfurt 8564.
Deputy Chief, Mr.

furt 8528,
Chief, Ocean Shipping Movement Section:
Mr. F. Goodall, Frankfurt 8659.

Chief, Programming & Inland | Movements
Section: Mr. B. S. Lloyd, Frankfurt 8652.
Assistant Chief: Mr. J. A. Gilbert, Frank-

furt 8655.
Chief, Zonal Movements: Mr. R. Armstrong,
Frankfurt 8055.
Personnel & Administration Branch
Mr. G. Middleton, Frankfurt 8322.
Personnel & Administration Branch (US): Capt.
W. C. McGarvey, Frankfurt 8059.

Chief, Plans & International Affairs Branch:
Mr. A. A, Earley, Frankfurt 8841,

Deputy Chief: Mr. S, Shulits, Frankfurt 8641.

Chief, Railways Branch: Mr. H. G, Warvel,
Frankfurt 8366.

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. G. W. Cordon, Frank-
furt 8637,

Chief, ‘Secretariat:
furt 8623,

Chief, Accounts & Statistics Section:
W. McEwan, Frankfurt 8581.

Assistant Chief: Mr. C. H, Brocher, Frank-
furt 8581.

Chief, Commercial Section: Mr. C, L. Dibbon,
Frankfurt 8197.

Assistant Chief:
furt 8197.

Chief, Engineering Section:
bird, Frankfurt 22902-8197.

Mr. C. B. Daman, Frankfurt

L. R. Smith,

E, T. Ruddock, Frank-

(UK):

Mrs, J. Gundrum, Frank-
Mr, R.

Mr, E, A. Van Es, Frank-
Capt. L. H. Star-

22902-8197. ;
Chief, Mechanical Section: Mr, G. A. R. Trim-
ming. 5 ;
Chief, Operating & Loco (Running) Section:

Mr, T, C. Kiernan. ;
Chief, Signals Section: Mr. S. R. Bishop,

Frankfurt 22902-8197,

Chief, Stores Section:
Frankfurt.

Chief, Reports & Statistics Branch: Mr. R.
Cheney, Frankfurt 8302.

Assistant’ Chief: Mr. H. P. Cooper, Frank-
furt 8302.

Chief, Technical Supply Section: Mr. H. H.
Winburg, Frankfurt 8809.

Mr, A. C, Pumphrey,

Decartelization Office

Chief: Mr. R, Bronson, Frankfurt 22547.

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. H. Collison, Frank-
furt 22559.

Assistant Chief: Mr.
22467.

Secretariat: Miss K.R. Beaty, Frankfurt 22279.

Administrative Officer: Miss P, K. Berry,
Frankfurt 22540.

O. Nordon, Frankfurt

Attony Adviser: Mr. S, K. Kobre, Frank-
furt 22438,

Business Economist: Mr. William Blitz, Frank-
furt 22285.

Business Economist: Mr. C. A. Dilley, Frank-
furt 22467.

Legal Administrator: Mr. J. J. Barron, Frank-
furt 22908.

Legal Group

Chief: Mr. R. D. Kearney (US), Frankfurt 8429.

Deputy Chief: Mr. H. Rose (UK), Frankfurt
8938.

Legislative Counsel:
furt $849,

Mr. J. von Elbe, Frank-

Civil Service Group
Chief: Mr. E, C. Wolfsperger (US), Frankfurt

6.

29

Deputy Chief:
Frankfurt 8433.

Personnel Specialist: Lt. Comdr. A, Doelberg,
Frankfurt 8673.

Administrative Officer:
Frankfurt 8316.

Bipartite Statistical Office

Chief: Mr, E, H, Slade (UK), Frankfurt 21026.

Deputy Chief: Mr. H, H. Lee (US), Frank-
furt 21023,

Chief, Administration Section: Mr. J. A.
Cherry, Frankfurt 21060,

Chief, Statistical Analysis & Review: Miss E.
Phillips, Frankfurt 21087,

Chief, Technical Liaison & Investigations: Mr.
R, E, Chapman, Frankfurt 21095,

UK/US Coal Control Group
(Villa Huegel, Essen, APO 757)

US Chairman: Mr. Robert R. Estill, Essen,
ext, 76.

Special Adviser to US Chairman: Mr. R. G.
‘Wayland, Essen, ext. 12."

Member for Hard Coal Production: Mr. A. F.
Marshall, Essen, ext. 12.

Member for Public Affairs: Mr. William A. Ul-
man, Essen, ext. 123.

Deputy Member for Finance: Mr, J. C. Jones,
Essen, ext. 83.

Member for Brown Coal Production: Mr. L. R.
Collins, Essen, ext. 12.

Member for Mines Supplies: Mr. J. P. Tipper,
Essen, ext. 85,

Deputy Member for Labor Relations Housing
& Welfare: Mr. C. O. Addison, Essen, ext. 33,

Deputy Member for Distribution: Mr, D. E.
Wilson, Essen, ext. 150.

Planning Engineer: Mr. W. E. Fourqurean,
Essen, ext. 103.

Food & Agriculture Representative: Mr. L. J.
Stahler, Essen, ext. 117.

Maj. V. A. T. Wade (UK),

Miss Penny Angelus,

Joint Foreign Exchange Agency
(Frankfurt, APO 757)

US Member: Mr. Jo Fisher Freeman, Frank-

furt 21071.

Allied Bank Commission
(Frankfurt, APO 757)
US Member: Mr. Jack Bennett, Frankfurt 8484.

Alternate: Mr, Jo Fisher Freeman, Frank-
furt 21071.

Joint Export—Import Agency
(Frankfurt, APO 757)

Director-General: Mr. J. W. Logan,
furt 8668.

Deputy Director-General: Mr. J. F. Cahan,
Frankfurt 8664.

Chief, US Secretariat: Mr. B.
Frankfurt 8275.

Chief, UK Secretariat: Mr. K. Duffus, Frank-
furt 8265.

Executive Officer:
furt 8606.

Deputy Executive Officer: Mr. G. H. Thomas,
Frankfurt 8696.

Frank-

R. Thorne,

Mr. W. Thorson, Frank-

Chief, Administrative Branch: Mrs. D. K.
Roemmele, Frankfurt 8707.
Assistant Chief: Mr. J. Donahue, Frankfurt

8042.

Personnel Office (US): Miss A. Miles, Frank-
furt 8787.

Personnel Office
Frankfurt 8048.

Special Assistant to Director-General: Mr, F.
C. Kempner, Frankfurt.

Chief, Legal Office: Mr. Clark Denney, Frank-
furt 8547.

Legal Adviser (US): Mr. J. D. Motzeff, Frank-
furt 8527.

Legal Adviser (UK): Mr.
furt 8527.

Chief, Press Information Branch: Mr. A. Set-
tel, Frankfurt 8567.

(UK): Miss B. Bayley,

G. Reide, Frank-

Assistant (US): Mr. H. Charniak, Frank-
furt 8587.
Assistant (UK): Mrs. L. Dunstan, Frank-
furt 8567.

Photographer: Mr. A. Byers, Frankfurt 8587.

Chief, Reports and Statistics Office: Mr. H.
Dawson, Frankfurt 8965.

Deputy Chief: Mr. A. Cefaratti, Frankfurt 8686,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Foreign Trade Division

Director: Mr. G. H. Santry, Frankfurt 8654,

Deputy Director: Brig. M. R. L. Robinson,
Frankfurt 8634.

Policy and Planning

Deputy: Mr. H. E. Rome, Frankfurt 6452.

Chief, Operation Planning and Procedures
Branch: Mr, R. Stanage, Frankfurt 8957.
Deputy Chief: Mr. C. Rotstein, Frankfurt 8816.

Trade Negotiations

Deputy: Miss E. Dietrich, Frankfurt 8757.

Assistant to Deputy: Mr. A. Schleppegrell,
Frankfurt 8767.

Chief, Foreign Markets Branch: Mr.
Haskell, Frankfurt 8747.

Chief, Foreign Trade Analysis: Mr. V. K.
Gaertner, Frankfurt 8866,

ERP Planning and Statistics Branch

Chief: Mr. E. P. Pierce, Frankfurt 8947.

WwW. L.

Deputy Chief: Mr. A. E, Dickens, Frank-
furt 8937,

Deputy for Operations:

Import Branch

Chief: Mr. J, French, Frankfurt 8296,

Deputy Chief: Mr. F. L. Berger, Frank-

furt 8286.

Chief, Textiles Section: Mr. G. C. Anderson,
Frankfurt 8076.

Chief, Metals Section: Mr. J. W. Simmons,
Frankfurt 8125.

Chief, Manufacturing Goods: Mr. R. W.
Castle, Frankfurt 8268.
Chief, Chemical Sectio: Mr. S. H. Ottley,

Frankfurt 8175.

Chief, Licensing Section: Mr.
mele, Frankfurt 6426.

Chief, Committment Control: Mr. R. H. Sam-
plos, Frankfurt 8145.

Chief, Miscellaneous Section: Mr. R. F. Lewis,
Frankfurt 8240.

Chief, Joint Food Procurement Office: Mr.
W. A. Close, Frankfurt 8468.

Deputy Chief: Mr. L. O'Toole, Frankfurt 8441.

Export Branch:

Chief: Mr, T. D. Palmer, Frankfurt 8305.

Deputy Chief: Mr. J. Wilson, Frankfurt 8395.

H. F. Roem-

Chemicals Section: Mr. S. ‘Cariski, Frank-
furt 8385.

Chemicals Section: Mr. G. Strauss, Frank-
furt 8375.

Invisible & Trade Fairs: Mr. Z. B. Hyde,
Frankfurt 8345.

Exports Section: Mr. P. Skeffinton, Frank-
furt 8327.

Consumer Goods; Mr. G. E. Dashwood, Frank-
furt 8325,

Consumer Goods: Miss M. Mackie, Frank-
furt 8315.

Heavy Industries Section:
Frankfurt 8365.

Heavy Industries Section: Mr.
Frankfurt 8898.

Bulk Commodities: Mr. M. Witham, Frank-
furt 8317.

Pricing Section: Mr, E. Duer, Frankfurt 8717.

Pricing Section: Mr. L, Campbell, Frankfurt
8806,

Mr. W. Jenkins,
R. Morgan,

Chief, Export-Textile Section: Mr. G. E. Ward,
Frankfurt 8486.

Deputy Chief: Mr. W. W. Grant, Frank-
furt 8377,
Chief, Hotel Section: Mr. H. J. Morley,

Frankfurt 8579.

Deputy Chief: Mr. C. J. Ellis, Frankfurt 8579.

Chief, Shipping and Forwarding Section: Miss
H, Adlercron, Frankfurt 8036.

Deputy Chief: Mr. R. Mereau, Frankfurt 8056.

Control Officer: Mr. G. Payns, Frankfurt 8046.

Office of the Comptroller

Comptroller: Mr. M. McIntosh, Frankfurt 8454.

Assistant Comptroller: Mr. R. Kimball, Frank-
furt 8616.

Chief, Budgetary Accounts Branch: Mr. W.
Baker, Frankfurt 6512.

Chief, Central Accounts Branch: Mr. A. Hol-
lis, Frankfurt 8293.

Chief, Hollerith Accounting Section: Mr. E.
Palmer, Frankfurt 8281.

Chief, Imports & Payments Branch: Mr. E.
Pocock, Frankfurt 8357.

Assistant: Miss P. Olson, Frankfurt 8357.

Chief, Import Section: Mr. H. Collins, Frank-
furt 8273.

Chief, Machine Accounting Branch: Mr. R.
Ellmer, Frankfurt 8644.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Branch Offices:

Berlin Branch Office (US Sector)

Joint Export-Import Agency

OMG Berlin Sector

APO 742, US Army

Director: Mr. O, L. Sause, Berlin 45271,

Chief, Exports: Mr. H, N. Higgins, Berlin

43016,

Chief, Imports: Mr. M. S. Celis, Berlin 43458.

Chief, Accounts & Contract Administration:
Mr, E, M. Claybaugh, Berlin 43898,

Berlin Branch Office (British Sector)

Joint Export-Import Agency

9 Uhlandstrasse

Berlin-Wilmersdorf

BAOR 2

Chief: Mr. W. M. Darling, Berlin 86-5211/3.

Deputy Chief & Contract Administration: Mr.

Wheeler, Berlin 86-5211/3.

German Businessmen’s Travel:
Berlin 86-5211/3.

Registry: Mr. F. M. Graves, Berlin 86-5211/3.

Bremen Branch Office

Joint Export-Import Agency

OMG Bremen

APO 751, US Army

Director: Mr. B. R. Clarke, Bremen 20221.

Deputy Director: Mr. F, O. Lackey, Bremen
20370.

Cotton Specialist: Mr. J. Bode, Bremen 20730.

Chief, Contract Supervision Branch: Mr. J. E.
Bowler, Bremen 20066.

Accountant: Mr. R. R. Bliss, Bremen 23764,

Export Liaison & Adviser: Mr, A. N. Kullan-
der, Bremen 20507.

Shipping & Forwarding Office:

Chief: Mr. R, J. Burns, Bremen 20064.

Bremerhaven Branch: Mr. H. C. Higginson,
Bremerhaven 21137,

Mrs, Erkeay,

Duesseldorf Branch Office

Joint Export-Import Agency

Branch Office for Land Nord Rhein-Westfalen

(State of North Rhine-Westphalia)

714 Hq CCG

BAOR 4

Chief: Mr. T, H. C, Raikes, Duesseldorf 28414.

Deputy Chief & Head of Sec, II; Mr. W. G.
Cutts Duesseldorf 2027-273,

Head of Section I: Mr. L. V, North, Duessel-
dorf 27211.

Coordination Officer, Secretariat: Mr.
Johnson, Duesseldorf 2027-459.

Section I-Textile Specialist: Mr. A, J. Janis,
Duesseldorf 2027-664.

Chief Accountant: Mr. J. M, McNair, Duessel-
dorf, 2027-243.

Shipping & Forwarding Offices

JEIA Shipping & Forwarding Section

Stadthaus, Duisburg

228 Hq, CCG

BAOR 4

Chief: Mr.
32471-33658,

JEIA Shipping & Forwarding Section

10 Koningin-Emma-Plein

Rotterdam, Netherlands

Chief: Mr, E. L. C. Coppieters, Rotterdam
25305.

JEIA Shipping & Forwarding Section

4 Quai van Meteren

Antwerp, Belgium

Chief: “Mr. E. L.
38357-22361-24197,

Hamburg Branch Office

Joint Export-Import Agency

Branch Office for Hansestadt Hamburg

609, Hq, CCG

Hapag Building, Ballindamm

BAOR 3

Chief: Mr. P. L, Lloyd, Hamburg 313202.

Deputy: Mr. C. J, Hampton, Hamburg 313506.

Exports, Heavy Industries, Vehicles, Textiles
& Gifts: Mr. A. G. Stanford, Hamburg 313108.

Exports, Chemicals Consumer Goods, Instru-
menets & Bulk Commodities: Mrs. E. Munn,
Hamburg 314106.

Exports, Hardware & Hand Tools, Business
Visits & Service Contracts: Mr. E. Dunkerly,
Hamburg 314074,

Imports & Processing Branch Administration:
Mr, G. R. Sims, Hamburg 314988,

Chief Accountant: Mr. H. S, Jackson, Ham-
burg 313228,

Claims: Mr. L. E. S, Abbot, Hamburg 313228.

30

J.W.

E, L. C. Coppieters, Duisburg

C. Coppieters, Antwerp

Shipping & Forwarding Office

Joint Export-Import Agency

Hapag Haus, 25 Ballindamm

63 Hq, CCG

BAOR 3 .

Chief: Mr. R. A, L. MacGregor, Hamburg
313292.

Deputy-Imports & Exports: Mr. E. H. Showell,
Hamburg 348432, .

Docks Office: Mr. E, S. Baverstock Hamburg
348153,

Hanover Branch Office

Joint Export-Import Agency

Branch Office for Land Niedersachsen (State
of Lower Saxony)

Stirling House

229 Hq, CCG

BAOR 5

Chief: Mr. J. S. Walton, Hanover 892447,

Exports: Mr. E. M, Looker, Hanover 892520,

Exports: Mr. G. A. Scott, Hanover 892495,

Imports: Mr. G. Beattie, Hanover 892428,

Imports: Mr. J. B. Currington, Hanover 892534,

Imports: Mr. F. Pfeiffer, Hanover 892534,

JEIA Publicity: Mr. D. MacPheil, Hanover
892512.

Buyer's Passport Exension: Mr. C. V. Hol.
den, Hanover 892512.

Accounts: Mr. G, S. Anderson,
892514.

Shipping & Forwarding Office

JEIA Shipping & Forwarding Section Emden

302 Hq, CCG (BE),

BAOR 25

Chief: Mr. S. L. S. White, Hanover 2107.

Kiel Branch Ofiice

Joint Export-Import Agency

Branch Office for Land Schleswig-Holstein

Reichsnaehrstand Bldg., 106-108 Holstenstrasse

312 Hq, CCG,

BAOR 6

Chief: Mr. A. G. Barr, Kiel 37-610.

Deputy Chief & Accounts: Mr. H. E. Leaver,
Kiel 37-609.

Progressing & Imports: Mr. A. Shaw, Kiel
37-654.

Shipping & Forwarding Section

JEIA Branch Office Luebeck

820 Hq, CCG,
BAOR 22, Luebeck 24181-4.

Munich Branch Office

Joint Export-Import Agency

OMG Bavaria

APO 407-A, US Army

Director: Mr. Paul S. Nevin, Munich 4-295.

Deputy Director for Operations and Control:
Mr. T. Robert Meister, Munich 4-296.

Deputy Director for Foreign Trade: Mr. H.
Peter Smith, Munich 4-298. ;

Chief, Administration Section: Mr. William
A. ‘Brown, Munich 4-300. ;

Chief, Licensing & Markets Branch: Mr. Wil-
liam E, Rothfelder, Munich 4-311.

Deputy Chief, Licensing & Markets Branch:
Mr. Fred C. Mehner, Munich 4-259.
Chief, Markets & Legal Section: Mr. Mau-
rice K. Wise, Munich 4-303. ;
Chief, Trade Promotion Branch: Mr. Vladimer
Hornak, Munich 4-310. ;
Chief, Branch Administration & Reports:
Miss Rosabella Saunders, Munich 4-310.
Chief, Textile Section: Mr. Rudolf H. Rainer.
Munich 4-287.

Chief, Chemical Section: Mr.
low, Munich 4-292.

Chief, Agriculture Section:
Wahlkamp, Munich 4-285. :

Chief, Electrical Equipment Section: Mr
Stanley M. Gould, Munich 4-286.

Chief, Accounting & Auditing Branch: Mr.
Clarence M. Hulen, Munich 4-302.

Chief, Accounts & Audits Section: Mr. Not
bert D. Roche, Munich 4-257.

Stuttgart Branch Office

Joint Export-Import Agency

OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden

APO 154, US Army 01)

(Telephone Nos.: Stuttgart 40756 and 93:

Director: Mr. Frank S. Wilson, ext. 337.

Deputy Director: Mr. George L, Simonson
ext. 335. Mr

Deputy Director for Trade Controls: Mr
Marsh T. McCoy, ext. 559.

Hanover

Samuel Shed-
Mr, Edward E

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
chief, Markets Branch: Mr, Edward Stokes,
xt. 239.

chief, Accounts & Audits Branch: Mr, Whitby
K. Maddern, ext, 323,

chief, Export Accounting Section: Mr. George
G. Riley, ext. 539.

chief, Import Accounting Section: Mr. Ver-
non J. Calkins, ext. 539.

chief, Operations Branch: Mr,
Sheetz, ext. 279.

Chief, Tourist & Special Services Section:
Mr. Dudley L. Triggs, ext. 368.

chief, Jewelry & Miscellaneous Section: Mr.
‘Aldon N. D. Attayer, ext, 274,

Chief, Textiles & Leather Section: Mr.
Thompson H. Boyd, ext. 344.

Chief, Chemical & Pharmaceutical: Mr. Wil-
liam T. Spieker, ext. 328.

George E.

Chief, Consumer Goods Section: Mr. Louis
P. Theodores, ext. 319.
Chief, Light Machinery Section: Mr. James

T. Tillinghast, ext. 317.
Chief, Machinery & Automotive Section: Mr.
Pierce J. Willard, ext. 238,
Wiesbaden Branch Office
Joint Export-Import Agency
OMG Hesse
APO 633, US Army
(Telephone Nos.: Wiesbaden 21341 to 21349)
Director: Mr. Julian A. Hillmann, ext. 260.
Deputy Director: Mr. Henry D. Cohen, ext. 262.
Chief, Contracts, Licensing & Markets: Mr.
Harold Nickelsberg, ext. 462.
Chief, Trade Promotion Branch: Mr. Donald
M. Pearson, ext. 269,

Chief, Accounting & Reports-Branch: Mr.
Douglas G. Adam, ext. 259.
Businessmen’s Coordinator: Mr.

Grady, ext. 268.
Chief, Administration Branch: Miss Mary B.
Seelye, ext. 279.

OMG Bavaria
(Munich APO 401-A)

State Director: Mr, Murray D. Van Wagoner,
Munich 206,
Special Adviser:
Munich 208,

Deputy State Director: Mr. Clarence M. Bolds,
Munich 207.

Acting Assistant State Director: Mr. R. R.
Lord, Munich 205,

Chief, Administration Branch: Capt. John J.
Kinsella, Munich 583,

Chief, Personnel Branch: Mr.
Smith, Munich 604.

Chief, Investigation & Claims Branch: Mr. Da-
vid Gallant, Munich 567.

Chief, Real Estate & Land Resources Branch:
Dr. Augustus B, Hill, Munich 558,

Acting Chief, Public Information Branch: Mr.
H, R. Mahoney, Munich 615.

Economics Adviser: Mr, Harold A. Taylor,
Munich 235,

ace Adviser: Mr, Kurt Fredericks, Munich

Robert E.

Mr, Edward F, Kennedy,

Schubert E.

Manpower Adviser:
Munich 554,

Transport Adviser:
Munich 640.

Acting Denazification Adviser: Mr.
H. Shell, Munich 500,

Legal Division

Director: Mr. Juan A. A. Sedillo, Munich 530,

Chief, Legal Advice Branch: Mr. Leonhard
J. Ganse, Munich 534,

Chief, Legislation Branch: Mr. Bertrand O.
Oberry, Munich 536.

Chief, MG Courts Branch:
McCauley, Munich 535.
hief, German Courts Branch: Mr, Leo M.
Goodman, Munich 546.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. John J, Raymond,
Munich 544.

Education & Cultural Relations Div.

qnector: Dr. Charles Winning, Munich 538,
hief, Education Branch: Mr, Lawrence G. Der-

qftick, Munich 461.
hief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr. James M.

akagan, Munich 467.
cting Chief, Cultural Affairs Branch: Mr. K.

ne MacCormac, Munich 528,
cting Chief, Group Activities Branch: Mr.
Charles Carroll, Munich 468.

pint, Agriculture & Forestry Div.
or! Mr. Kenneth W. Ingwalson, Munich

Mr. Frantz G. Loriaux,
Mr, Theodore E, Zadra,

Curtis

Mr. Worth B.

NOVEMBER 2, 1948

Chief, Food Processing & Distribution Branch:
Mr. W. C, Muller, Munich 254.

Chief, Agriculture Programs Branch: Mr. R. E,
Cameron, Munich 255.

Chief, Field Inspections Branch, Lt. Col. J. C.
Thorne, Munich 331.

Chief, Forestry Branch: Mr.
Munich 256.

Property Division

Director: Mr. William H. Harrison, Munich 312,

Chief, Property Control & External Assets
Branch: Mr. J, H, Lennon, Munich 313.

Chief, Restitution Branch: Mr. Otto F. Yanish,
Munich 288,

Chief, Reparations Branch: Mr. Clifton H, Day,
Munich 270.

Chief, Decartelization Branch: Mr. Francis A.
O'Connell, Munich 241.

Information Services Division

Director: Mr. James A. Clark, Munich 400.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Ernest Langendorf,
Munich 413,

Acting Chief, Publications Branch:
C, Travis, Munich 412.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr. Edmund Schechter,
Munich 366.

Chief, Information Centers Branch: Mr, C. S.
‘Wright, Munich 401.

Acting Chief, Film Branch: Mr. Eric Pleskow,
Munich 520.

Civil Administration Division

Director: Mr. Albert C. Schweizer, Munich 223.

Chief, Governmental & Political Branch: Mr.
Jack Bradford, Munich 224,

Chief, Public Health Branch:
Munich 470.

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. W. R. Rohan,
Munich 476.

Chief, Public Welfare & Displaced Persons
Branch: Mr. W. R. Gosser, Munich 492.

Intelligence Division

Director: Mr. Don T. Shea, Munich 407,

Chief, Research Branch: Mr. Paul E, Moeller,
Munich 428,

Acting Chief, Analysis Branch: Mr, Albert
P, Mayio, Munich 406.

Chief, Reports Control Branch: Mr. Thomas
Coad, Munich 430.

Field Operations Division

Director: Mr. K. Van Buskirk, Munich 214.

Chief, Branch * Mr. Ben Narvid, Wurz-
burg 6068.

Chief, Branch "B‘': Mr. Robert MacWhorter,
Nuremberg 25141.

Chief, Branch "D'':
gensburg 2141.

Chief, Branch "E": Mr.
Munich 2030.

Chief, Branch
burg 7727.

Birger Berg,

Mr. Don

Dr. R. J, Hood,

Mr. Elmer Warke, Re-

Richard Wagner,

Mr. William Rhyne, Augs-

OMG Hesse
(Wiesbaden APO 633)
Tel. Nos. 21341 to 21349

Director: Dr. James R. Newman, Wiesbaden
ext, 382-21424,

Deputy Director: Mr. Francis E. Sheehan,
Wiesbaden ext. 283-21436.

Executive Officer: Mr, Ernest K. Neumann,
Wiesbaden ext. 216-21463.

Assistant Executive Officer: Mr. Robert W.
Bruce, Wiesbaden ext. 216-21463.

Adjutant: ist Lt. Robert D, Thayer, Wiesbaden
ext. 470.

Personnel Division

Director: Mr. James R. Haarstad, Wiesbaden
ext. 480.

Chief, Administrative Branch aid Accomodation
Branch: ist Lt. Robert D. Thayer, Wies-
baden ext. 460.

Historical and Field Reports Division

Director: Mr. Robert A. Irving, Wiesbaden
ext. 409.

Public Information Division

Director: Mr. Hillard A, Rhoades, Wiesbaden
ext. 380.

Intelligence Division

Director: Mr. James E, O'Steen, Wiesbaden
ext. 330-331.

Deputy: Mr. Robert H. Cunningham, Wies-
baden ext. 332.

Property Division

Director: Mr. William R, Rule,
ext. 360-561.

Deputy: Mr. John R. Cain, Wiesbaden ext. 366.

Chief, Auditing and Accounts Branch: Mr.
Allan Wilson, Wiesbaden ext. 356-256.

31

Wiesbaden

Chief, Decartellization Branch: Mr,
Meyer, Wiesbaden ext. 449.

Chief, Reparations Section: Mr. Ernst J. Bootz,
Wiesbaden ext. 290-291.

Chief, Monuments & Fine Arts Branch: Mr.
Theodore Heinrich, Wiesbaden ext. 258,

Legal Division

Director: Mr, Franklin J. Potter, Wiesbaden
ext. 340-341,

Chief, Prison Branch: Mr, Wallace Lawrence,
Wiesbaden ext. 349. ‘

Chief, Administration of German Justice,
Legislation and Legal Branch: Mr. Emst
Anspach, Wiesbaden ext, 342-339,

Education & Cultural Relations Division

Eric L.

Director: Mr. Vaughn R. Delong, Wiesbaden
ext. 300.

Acting Deputy: Dr. Leroy Vogel, Wiesbaden
ext. 301,

Chief, General Education Branch: Mr. Eugene
R. Fair, Wiesbaden ext. 403.

Chief, Higher Education Branch: Dr, Franz
Montgomery, Wiesbaden ext. 304,

Chief, Adult and Vocational Education Branch:
Dr. Howard Oxley, Wiesbaden ext, 302.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Mr. Gcorge
F, Donovan, Wiesbaden ext, 307,

Chief, Youth Activities Branch: Mr, Austin
Welch, Wiesbaden ext. 306, 305, 309.

Denazification Division

Director: Mr. Hubert I.
baden ext. 230-539.

Information Services Division

Director: Mr. Frederick N. Leonard, Wies-
baden ext. 320,

Deputy: Mr. Arthur Reef, Wiesbaden ext. 320
and 321.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr, Robert H. Lochner,
Frankfurt 50301.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr, Raymond J. Stover,
Wiesbaden ext, 327.

Chief, Publications Branch: Mr. Raymond Pa-
gan, Wiesbaden ext. 328,

Chief, Film Theater, Music Branch: Mr. Wil-
liam P. Dubensky, Wiesbaden ext, 322,

Chief, Information Center Branch: Mr, Emil
P, Jallouk, Wiesbaden ext, 319-519,

Civil Administration Division

Director: Mr. Dale Noble,
220-221.

Chief, Government Affairs Branch: Mr. Milton
M. Mayer, Wiesbaden ext. 223.

Acting Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr, Hu-
bert I, Teitelbaum, Wiesbaden 390-592.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Lt. Col Charles
Moseley, Wiesbaden ext. 370-372.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mr. Sharon L.
Hatch, Wiesbaden ext, 400-507.

Bizonal Liaison Division

Director: Mr. Stanley H, Sisson, Wiesbaden
ext, 240.

Deputy: Mr.
ext. 242.

Chief, Transportation Branch: Mr, Theodore
E, Dodds, Wiesbaden ext. 420-280.

Chief, Food & Agriculture Branch: Dr. James
S, Hathcock, Wiesbaden ext. 250-556,

Chief, Manpower Branch: Mr. Glenn E. Gar-
rett, Wiesbaden ext. 350-352.

Chief, Finance Division: Mr. Donald S. Spig-
ler, Wiesbaden ext, 310.

OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden
(Stuttgart, APO 154)
Tel. Nos.: 93221, 90751, 92146, 40756

Teiteibaum, Wies-

Wiesbaden ext.

Joseph I. Taylor, Wiesbaden

*Director: Mr. Charles M. LaFollette, Stuttgart

ext. 550.
Deputy Director: Mr.
Stuttgart ext. 275.
Assistant Deputy Director: Lt. Col. Edward
J. Drinkert, Stuttgart ext. 564.

Executive Officer: Mr. David F. Anderson,
Stuttgart ext. 542.

Personnel & Administrative Division

Chief and Assistant Executive Officer: Mr.
Harry B. Wolfe, Stuttgart ext. 586/438.

Adjutant: 1st Lt. Felix Zak, Stuttgart ext. 538/
642.

Administrative Officer:
Stuttgart ext. 438.

Intelligence & Reports Division

Chief: Mr. J. Ward Starr, Stuttgart ext. 510.

Chief, Intelligence Branch: Mr. Peter Vacca,
Stuttgart ext. 541.

Chief, Reports Branch: Mr. James B. Larwood,
Stuttgart ext. 534.

Harvey M. Coverly,

Miss Lucille Speck,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Chief, Public Information Office: Mr. Charles
D. Beckman Stuttgart ext. 486.

Inspections Officer: Lt. Col. Joseph H. Rous-
seau, Jr., Stuttgart ext. 379.

French Adviser: Mr, Robert R. Hutton, Stutt-
gart ext. 264.

Housing Adviser:
Stuttgart ext. 385.

Governmental Affairs Division

Chief, Mr. Chester Lewis, Stuttgart ext. 266.

Chief, Civil Affairs Branch: Mr. Harold A.
Wyatt, Stuttgart ext. 258.

Public Health Adviser: Dr. William D, Rad-
cliffe, Stuttgart ext. 515.

Refugee & Welfare Adviser; Mr. James H.
Campbell, Stuttgart ext. 548.

Public Safety Adviser: Mr. Robert L. Perry,
Stuttgart ext. 429.

Denazification Adviser: Mr. Walter S. Leeds,
Stuttgart ext. 540.

Bipartite Affairs Division

Chief, Mr. George L. Erion, Stuttgart ext. 549.

Transportation Adviser: Mr. Arthur M. Car-
rison, ext. 557.

Manpower Adviser: Mr, Edwin F, Beal, Stutt-
gart ext. 569.

Finance Adviser: Mr. John Van Stirum, Siutt-
gart ext. 531.

Food, Agriculture & Forestry Adviser: Mr.
Paul F. Taggert, Stuttgart ext. 214.

Industrial Adviser: Mr. Lionel J. Brunton,
Stuttgart ext. 520.

Decartelization Adviser: Mr.
mann, Stuttgart ext. 339.

Property Division

Chief: Mr. Zinn B. Garrett, Stuttgart ext. 563.

Chief: Reparations Branch Mr. John A. Hol-
brook, Stuttgart ext. 562.

Chief, Restitutions Branch: Mr.
Smith, Stuttgart ext. 348.

Legal Division

Chief, Mr. Richard A. Jackson, Stuttgart ext.
259.

Chief, Military Government Courts Branch: Mr.
Carl W. Fulghum, Stuttgart ext. 221.

Chief, German Justice Branch: Mr. Charles T.
Bloodworth, Stuttgart ext. 332.

Chief, Prisons Branch: Mr. Paul J. Gernert,
Stuttgart ext. 262.

Chief, Legal Advice Branch: Mr. Wesley A.
Smith, Stuttgart ext. 363.

Education & Cultural Relations Division

Chief, Mr. John P. Steiner, Stuttgart ext. 527.

Chief, Education Branch: Mr. Payne Temple-
ton, Stuttgart ext. 243,

Chief, University Branch: Mr. Robert T. Ittner,
Stuttgart ext. 516.

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Dr.
Arndt, Stuttgart ext. 216.

Chief, Group Activities Branch: Mr. Leon A.
Shelnut, Stuttgart ext. 574.

Chief, Theater & Music Control Branch: Mr.
William C. Castello, Stuttgart ext. 565.

Information Services Division:

Chief: Mr. Nicholas Canady, Stuttgart ext. 529.

Chief, Plans & Operations Branch: Mr. John
H. Boxer, Stuttgart ext. 588/629.

Chief, Press Branch: Mr. Joseph L. Dees, Stutt-
gart ext. 577.

Chief, Publications Branch: Mr.
Schnitzer, Stuttgart ext. 579.

Chief, Radio Branch: Mr. Fred C. Taylor, Jr.,
Stuttgart 93678/40658.

Chief, Film Control Branch: Mr.
Brockman, Stuttgart ext. 378,

Capt. James A. Dunn,

Otto E. Hurli-

Edward O.

Kerl J.

Ewald W.

Harry D.

Chief, Exhibitions &
Branch: Mr. Michael Barjansky, Stuttgart
93091.

Field Relations Division
Chief, Mr. Eugene P. Walters, Stuttgart ext.
556.

OMG Bremen
(Bremen, APO 751)
Director: Mr. Thomas F. Dunn, Bremen 20686.

Deputy Director: Capt. Charles R. Jeffs,
USN, Bremen 20279.
Executive Officer: Mr. Joseph L. Payette,

Bremen 20774.
Acting Adjutant:
Bremen 20073.
Public Information Officer: Mr. Howard W.
Calkins, Bremen 20359.
Intelligence Officer: Mr.

Bremen 20997,

Capt. Elkan F, Solomon,

Nicholas Metal,

Information Centers *

Budget & Fiscal Officer: Mr. Joseph F. Na-
poli, Bremen 20355.

Personnel Officer: Miss Genevieve Sullivan,
Bremen 20435.

Bremerhaven L&S Detachment

State Liaison and Security Officer: Mr. Ed-
ward E. Marone, Bremerhaven 21150.

Bipartite Affairs Division

Economics Adviser: Mr. Osborne M. Taylor,
Bremen 20487.

Finance & Property Control Adviser: Mr.
‘Wiliam H. Goehring, Bremen 20590.

Manpower and Housing Adviser: Dr. George
R. Mursell, Bremen 20188.

Transportation Adviser: Mr. Thomas F. Dunn,
Bremen 20686.

Port Supervision Branch: Chief, Mr. Stanley
A. Clem, Bremen 20040.

Education and Cultural Relations Division

Chief: Mr. Harold H. Crabill, Bremen 20421.

Governmental Affairs Division

Civil Administration Adviser: Mr. Dale D.
Clark, Bremen 20769.

Denazification Adviser: Mr. Joseph F, Na-

poli, Bremen 20355.
Deputy Public Health Adviser: Mrs. Olga
Edwards, Bremen 20610.

Public Welfare Adviser: Miss Melba M.

Foltz, Bremen 20703.

Public Safety Adviser: Mr. John S. Baber,
Bremen 20929.

Information Services Division

Chief: Mr. Duncan D. MacBryde,
20149.

Legal Division

Chief: Mr. Robert W. Johnson, Bremen 20633.
Waterfront Division ‘

Acting Chief: Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN,
Bremen 20279.

Attached Organizations:

BICO

Communications:
Bremen 20775.
Commerce and Industry (OMSTEG): Chief,
Mr. John H. Snyder, Bremen 20134.

Rail Branch: Chief, Mr. Edward F. Sinclair,
Bremen 20517.

Marine Production and Control: Chief, Mr.
Carley H. Paulsen, Bremen 20320.

Weser Field Organization: Chief, Mr. Ken-
neth E. McGregor, Bremen 20222.

JEIA

Bremen

Chief, Harry A. Lenhart,

Bremen Branch Office: Chief, Mr. Bertrand
R. Clarke, Bremen 20221.

Bremerhaven Branch Office: Chief Mr. H.
C. Higginson, Bremerhaven 21137.

omGus

Combined Travel Board, Bremen Branch
Office: Chief, Mr. Walter J. Thimm,

Bremen 20670.

Public Opinion Survey: Chief, Mr. Ernest J.
Colton, Bremen 20930.

US Military Government Courts for Germany,
Ist Judicial District: Chief, Mr. Robert
L. Guthrie, Bremen 20697.

OMG Berlin Sector
(Berlin APO 742-A)

Director: Col. F, L. Howley, Berlin 43116.

Deputy Director: Mr, W. T. Babcock, Berlin
43414/43138.

Deputy Director:
43161.

Executive Officer:
Berlin 43163.

US Commandant, Allied Kommandatura Berlin:
Col. F. L. Howley, Berlin 44919.

Chief of Stafi: Mr. E. A, Taylor, Berlin 44915.

Assistant Chief of Staff: (vacancy) Berlin 44914,

Chief, Civil Administration and Political Af-
fairs Branch: Dr. L. Franklin, Berlin
42938,

Chief, Comunications Branch: Mr. J. H. Gayer,
Berlin 42614.

Deputy: Mr. C. R. Ballard, Berlin 42616,

Chief, Economics Branch: Mr. D, H. Hair,
Berlin 42987.

Deputy: Mr. J. W. Darling, Berlin 43543.

Chief, Commerce & Industry Section: Mr. O.
S. Curran, Berlin 42988,

Chief, Food & Agriculture Section: Mr. L. J.
Steck, Berlin 43114.

Chief, Requirements & Allocations Section:
Mr. E. W. Kunkel, Berlin 43038.

Chief, Transportation Section: Mr, C. A. Dix,
Berlin 43064,

Chief, Building & Housing Section: Mr. A.B.
Fuller, Berlin 42888,

Mr. A. W. Moran, Berlin
Lt, Col. C. O. Buckland,

Chief, Education & Cultural Relations Branch;
Mr. J. C, Thompson, Berlin 42837. *

Deputy: Mr. C. B. Garnett, Berlin 42765,

Chief, Youth Activities Section: Mr. T. Strong
Berlin 42863. p

Chief, Education & Curricula: Dr. H. B, Wy.
man, Berlin 43248,

Chief, Teacher Training & Cultural Exchange:
(vacancy) Berlin 42838. 7

Chief, Finance Branch: Mr. J. F. Kilduff, Ber.
lin ' 42787.

Deputy: Mr. J. Wangler, Berlin 42788,

Chief, Information Services Branch: Mr, T.R
Hutton, 44821. "

Deputy: Mr. K, T. Downs, Berlin 44801,

Chief, Publications Section: Mr. G. R. Parson,
Berlin 44808. ¥

Chief, Film Section:
42213,

Chief, Radio Section (RIAS): Mr. W. F. Heim.
lich, 3381.

Chief, Theater & Music Section:
Berlin 44814,

Chief, US Information Centers: Mr. C. A,
Legge, Berlin 3103.

Chief, Legal Branch: Mr. W. F. Pape, Berlin
42916.

Deputy: Mr. A. A. Birnkrant, Berlin 42937,

Chief, Court Section: Mr. J. A. Sabo, Berlin
21127

US Director, Spandau Allied Prison: Major
M, Miller, Berlin 934100.

Chief, Intelligence Branch: Dr. H. E, Steams,
Berlin 44307.

Liaison Officers (with mayors):

Berlin: Mr. K. F, Mautner,
ext. 227.

Neukoelin: Mr. D, J, Harkins, Berlin 3586,

Kreuzberg: Mr. C, J, Melchers, Berlin 3528,

Schoeneberg: Mr. C. J. Melchers, Berlin 3427.

Steglitz: Mr. W. J. Pugh, Berlin 43040.

Tempelhof: Mr. D. J, Harkins, Berlin 5266,

Zehlendorf: Mr. W. J. Pugh, Berlin 2203.

Chief, Manpower Branch: Mr. G. N. McClusky,
Berlin 43087.

Deputy: Mr. J. H, Genung, Berlin 45140,

Chief, Manpower Allocation Section: Mr. M.
‘Wye, Berlin 44318.

Chief, Labor Relations & Social Insurance
Section: Mr. E. L. Garner, Berlin 44317/45183.

Chief, Wages & Labor Standards Section: Mr.
J. F, Allison, Berlin 42161.

Chief, Property Control Branch: Mr. J, H.
Nobles, Berlin 42814.

Deputy: Mr. J, McNulty, Berlin 43387.

Chief, Public Health Branch: Maj. R. S. Paine,
Berlin 42738.

Chief, Public Relations, Statistical & Historical
Branch: Mr. F, W. Shaw, Berlin 42737,

Chief, Berlin Press Review: Mr. J. F. Kraus,
Berlin 43922.

Chief, Public Safety Branch: Mr. R. Ashworth,
Berlin 43945, ext. 21.

Chief, Administrative & Fire Section: Mr. J.
P. M. Schmidt, Berlin 43945, ext. 12,

Chief, Police Section, Mr. C.'C. Bond, Berlin
43945, ext. 24/25,

Chief, Special Branch Section: Mr. V. N. Ko-
vacic, Berlin 43945, ext. 34.

Mr. C. Winston, Berlin

(vacancy)

Berlin 421466,

rum, Berlin 43945, ext. 38.

Chief, Public Welfare Branch: Mr. W. Froistad,
Berlin 42638,

Deputy: Miss F. C. Steele, Berlin 42663,

Chief, Public Assistance Section: Mr. P. J.
Gangloff, Berlin 43973.

Chief, Welfare Services Section: (vacancy),
Berlin 42665.

Chief, Public Works & Utilities Branch: Mr.
E. C. Rohrbaugh, Berlin 42714.

Deputy: Mr. A. G. Skina, Berlin 42715.

Chief, Sewerage-Garbage Romoval-Streets_ &
Bridges Section: Mr. A. Germano, Berlin
42716,

Allied Control Authority
(US Representatives)
Control Council
General Lucius D. Clay.

Coordinating Committee

Maj. Gen, George P. Hays.
Allied Secretariat
US Secretary: Mr. James E, King, Jt | ig
Deputy US Secretary: Mr. E, O, Oulaship:
Assistant to US Secretary: Dr. C. Ancrum

\

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF