--- Page 2 ---
ie WY y |

MAGAZINE OF US Miitary GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

ite

OCTOBER 19, 1948

> BERLIN SITUATION”

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

BRANDENBURG GATE—Symbol of
the dividing line between the Soviet
and western sectors of Berlin, it was
the arch through which militaristic
forces of Germany's past marched to
parade up Unter den Linden (in
distance). The slogan placed along the
top of the gate by Communist support-
ers reads: “Although forbidden, we
are demonstrating! Against fascism,
against the division of Germany.”

(US Army Signal Corps photo)

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of Military Government
and affiliated organizations,

Editorial Offices
Directors Building, Room 0045
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin

Tel.: 42227, 42252, 42923

Editor H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor Henry S. Matteo
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes

Mailing address:
Information Bulletin
Control Office, OMGUS
Berlin, Germany
APO 742, US Army

Correspondence in the United States
Concerning articles and distribution
Should be made to:
Reports & Analysis Branch
Civil Affairs Division
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D.C.

Printing and distribution of the
Magazine is handled by the Publi-
Cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS,

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
Cifically noted, is permitted with credit
fo the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the articles.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

BULLETIN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No, 146 October 19, 1948

Change in Overseas Salaries Announced .
Berlin Divided

Denazification Nears Completion .
Youth Organizations

RIAS .

Map of Berlin .

Occupational Activities

Editorial Opinion in German Press .
Rebuilt Bridge at Ulm Dedicated .
Personnel Changes Announced
Industrial Index Continues Rise

The Berlin Crisis (US White Paper) .
US Note to UN Security Council .
Excerpts from Instructions

Official Instructions

Station List .

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)
REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH
APO 742, US ARMY

CONTROL OFFICE
BERLIN, GERMANY

11
ills)
24—25
26
27
29
30
31
32
43
46
46
47

--- Page 5 ---
EDINA MAA

Change in Overseas
salaries Announced

The 25 percent overseas differential pay applied to the salaries of
Department of the Army civilian employees in the European Theater
will be discontinued in January 1949, according to the Office of the
Personnel Officer, OMGUS.

Executive Order 10,000, implementing US Public Law 491, provides
for the discontinuation of the overseas differential and authorizes pay-
ment of quarters allowances, cost of living allowances and “post
differentials.’ The order will affect Department of the Army employees
at all overseas stations.

A quarters allowance will be authorized in the European Theater.
The effect of this allowance will be to provide quarters at no charge
to employees.

The “post differential,” which may range up to 25 percent of base
pay, will be determined by the Department of State. There is no
information at this time as to what amount will be set at any post in
the European Theater. The Executive Order authorizes payment of the
differential in areas where conditions of employment differ substantially
from conditions of employment within the continental limits of the
United States. The payment of the differential is based upon such
factors as “extraordinarily difficult" living conditions, extensive hard-
ships and notably unhealthful living conditions.

The cost of living allowance is intended to compensate for differences
in living costs between an overseas area and Washington, D. C. There
is no indication at this time whether this allowance will be authorized
in the European Theater.

These allowances and post differentials are not considered part of the
basic compensation, as is the present 25 percent overseas allowance,
and will not, therefore, be subject to retirement reduction nor to the
present $10,300 salary limitation. The quarters allowance will not be
subject to income tax deduction, according to the Office of the Per-
sonnel Officer.

The Office of the Personnel Officer said it is difficult to judge at this
time the full effect of these new regulations upon the income of
employees in the European Theater. Any part or all of the present
overseas allowance may be restored, in effect, by the payment of quar-
ters allowances, post differential and cost of living allowances.

al HHH AK

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 6 ---
N A LOCAL SENSE Soviet Russia

has imposed its will upon the
people of Berlin, upon the city govern-
ment of Berlin and upon the western
Allies.

Russia has split the city govern-
ment, has capitalized on the battle
of the currencies (Lenin said: “Let me
put my hands on the currency and the
fevolution is mine.) and has the
armed forces with which it may
Physically take the city when it
wishes to do so.

IN A BROAD AND HISTORICAL
SENSE, however, Russia has lost its
fight for Berlin—lost the power to
achieve its purposes of making Berlin
a second Prague by “spontaneous
Uprising of the people.”

Even into October, the western
Allies still were in Berlin, the city
government was _ still functioning
Without communist domination, plans
for development of the West German
State were progressing with participa-

OCTOBER 19, 1948

Part of the 250,000 Berliners who gathered before the ruins of the
Reichstag building on Sept. 9 to voice their protest against the Soviet
blockade of the city and the attempt to implant a totalitarian regime.

(photo by permission of Mr. G. M. Jones, Jr., O/SG, OMGUS. Reprint prohibited)

tion of Berlin democratic political
leaders, and the people of Berlin had
not been starved into submission.

Diplomacy, political action, coer-
cion, threats, propaganda and com-
munist sophistry, utilized by the Rus-
sians, had all failed. It had remained
for Russia to use force (and beget
the reaction of counter force) and face
the certainty, in that field, of eventual
failure also.

UT THE WHOLE SITUATION on

Sept. 10, 1948 was one, suddenly,
of clarification and definition. On that
date a line seemed to be drawn across
the face of Berlin. As though a gi-
gantic axe had crashed upon the city,
there was sharp cleavage of political

MAP OF BERLIN ON PAGES 24-25

3

action and administration. Long antic-
ipated and with the details accur-
ately foreseen, nevertheless the break
when it came carried shock to many
observers and sober thought to all.

Fumbling attempts at unified ad-
ministration might go on for a short
time (at the will of Soviet authorities)
or there might, for a time, be some
token official intercourse between the
western Allies and the Russians, but
for practical purposes the city of Ber-
lin was cut into two parts.

The western three sectors, contain-
ing two-thirds of the population,
under the administration of a Ma-
gistrat and City Assembly, which
claimed legal authority over the whole
city but was totally unrecognized in
the eastern sector, recognized the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
military government control of Great
Britain, France and the United States.

The eastern sector, with one-third
of the city's population, recognized
the military authority of the USSR
and their tools, the SED, therefore
necessarily repudiated the legal go-
vernment of the city.

Y SEPT. 10, the following were
the highlights of the Berlin sit-
uation:

The US-British airlift of food into
Berlin, in defiance of the Soviet threat
to starve the people of the western
sectors unless they capitulated in po-
litical submission, was in its third
month, bringing in more than 4,000
tons of supplies a day.

The four military governors had
been meeting to untangle the questions
presented by the Western Powers—
Soviet conferences which had taken
place in Moscow. The meetings of
the military governors had been com-
plicated by a volcanic outburst of
temper on the parts of political lead-
ers of Berlin who petitioned the
three western governors to make no
compromises and offer no appease-
ment “in order to provide comfort
and security for the people of Berlin.”

On the contrary, it was urged that
the people of Berlin be permitted to
demonstrate their hatred of political
slavery and the totalitarian system
by making sacrifices, cutting down on
food and clothing, going without fuel,
suffering loss of work and _ trans-
portation.

There had been a succession of
riots, staged by a small group of pro-
fessional Communists, which had pre-
vented the City Assembly from
meeting.

There had been a counter demon-
stration in the Platz der Republik be-
fore the old Reichstag (ruins of former
German capitol in the British Sector),
attended by 250,000 indignant citizens.

The City Assembly had moved out
of the City Hall (Stadthaus) in the
Soviet Sector and into the Taberna
Academica (Students’ Inn) in the Brit-
ish Sector.

Various members of the Magistrat
had left the city temporarily.

Certain departments of the city
government had moved to the western

INFORMATION BULLETIN

sectors, including a majority of the
police force.

Abductions and seizures of city gov-
ernment personnel had _ continued
under Soviet orders.

United States, British and French

Mr. Louis Glaser, before he left
Berlin to return to the United
States last month, wrote a
comprehensive summary of the
political situation, interpreting
the events since the beginning
of the occupation to the current
crisis in the former German
capital. His summary has been
adapted for publication; in the
Information Bulletin.

Mr. Glaser had been chief of
the Civil Administration and
Political Affairs Branch of
OMG Berlin Sector since the
arrival of the American forces
in Berlin in July 1945. He had
been in almost continual daily
contact with the German public
officials and with the Russians
and had received full reports
about the Russians and Com-
munist activities from all other
branches of OMGBS.

He had joined the MG detach-
ment when it was being set up
and prepared in Paris in 1944 to
take over the Berlin assignment.
Col. Frank L. Howley, director
of OMGBS, sent him then to
London where he took an
important part in making plans
for the Military Government of
Berlin.

A former newspaperman, public
relations expert and president of
a national advertising agency
before the war, he came to
Europe in 1943 and headed the
Information and Intelligence
Section, G-5, SHAEF. He had
been promoted to the rank of
colonel before he civilianized in
late 1946.

Mr. Glaser was author of the
article “Berlin Elections” in the
Information Bulletin, No. 62 of
Oct. 7, 1946.

officers had been treated in a high-
handed and insulting manner by Ger-
man police under Soviet orders.

4

The three non-communist politica}
parties were united in condemnation
of the communist tactics. Also the
leaders of the three parties declareg
openly that the SED had acted upon
the instigation and -orders of their
Soviet masters, and called upon Ber.
lin not to surrender itself to the Rus.
sian brand of totalitarianism.

The Communist activist body
(Volksrat) stood ready to take over
the city of Berlin, and to offer its
services in the.same capacity for all
Germany.

A “Democratic Bloc’ of Communists
and political bed-fellows had organiz-
ed and was ready to serve as a spur-
ious “people's government.”

HE RECORD of events in Berlin
since the first of January 1947
is best introduced by a statement that
when the first meeting of the Allied
Kommandatura took place in July
1945, the Russian had occupied Berlin
for more than two months during
which they had established a basis
for the kind of Berlin they desired.
The USSR recognized at a very
early stage that Berlin would be a
focus point for implementation of
their postwar German plans. They
undoubtedly were aware of the future
possibilities when their agreement
was signed in November 1944, also
at the Crimea Conference which tied
the hands of the western Military Go-
vernment operations.

They were especially alert when
they insisted upon “taking Berlin"
and reduced US and British authorities
to acquiescence that no time-table
for western participation in Berlin
government should be fixed; in other
words that the Russians should “set
the stage.”

The hardships of the people of Ber-
lin were intensified by systematic
looting of the city by the Russians
plus the imposition by all of the
Allies of a currency which was ex
panded by the Soviet printing presses
without Allied limit or control.

The move of the Russians to liq
uidate the Social Democratic Party
was beaten by the political courage
of the people of Berlin which was
again exhibited in the city election of

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
Oct. 20, 1946. (SPD polled 49 percent
of the total vote.)

ERLIN had been given a temporary

constitution which in itself was
a sound document but emasculated by
Russian interpretation and insistence
upon their veto right, plus a com-
pination of confusion and frustration
on the part of the other Allies, in
both the Allied Control Council and
the Allied Kommandatura resulting,
when, in some cases, they accepted
the Soviet interpretations and in other
cases had these interpretations forced
upon them.

On Dec, 10, 1946, the matter of prior
approval of elected representatives (a
step which tended to make a com-
plete farce of any political democracy
offered to the Germans) was accepted
by the Allied Kommandatura after a
long debate. This point of view was,
however, repudiated on Dec. 19 by US
and British representatives.

On Dec. 30, the US representative
stated: “It is clear that we sent
this order without permitting it to
affect the principles involved and the
United States view is that elected
members of the government do not
require prior approval of the Allied
Kommandatura." This statement clear-
ed the record but did not save the
situation. Soviet representatives in-
sisted on the precedent act of Dec. 10.

The temporary constitution was de-
signed to restore political freedom and
place it in the hands of the people of
Berlin by concentration of authority
in their elected representatives. This
high purpose was never fully realized
because of certain reservations under
Article 36,

This article stipulated that all legal
enactments of the City Assembly and
ordinances by the Magistrat must re-
ceive unanimous approval by the
Allied Kommandatura. This applied
also to the appointment and discharge
of leading officials of the city ad-
ministration. Veto by one power pre-
vented Allied Kommandatura approval
and this right was exercised indis-
ctiminately by the Soviet authorities
to hamper, frustrate or obstruct the
City administration whenever it suited
their purposes,

OCTOBER 19, 1948

Mr. Louis Glaser, outhor of this article, and an aide discussing political
matters with German leaders. (left to right) Ernst Reuter who was
elected mayor of Berlin but “vetoed” by the Soviets; Mr, Glaser; Mrs.
Ella Kay, SPD leader, dismissed by the Soviets as borough president
of Prenzlauer Berg, Soviet Sector; Jakob Kaiser, chairman of the CDU
party; Dr, U. E. Biel, chief of the Political Affairs Section, OMGBS.
(US Army Signal Corps photo)

HE CITY ASSEMBLY is composed

of 130 representatives elected by
secret, direct ballot by the citizens of
Berlin on the rule of proportional rep-
resentation. The Magistrat, chosen by
the City Assembly, comprises the
mayor (Oberbuergermeister), three
deputy mayors (Buergermeister) and
16 members (Stadtraete), each of
whom heads a city department.

Legislative authority for city mat-
ters is exercised by the city assembly-
men (Stadtverordneten) who serve for
a two-year term. Besides choosing the
Magistrat, they fix taxes, prepare the
budget and perform other important
duties. Work of the City Assembly is
channeled through 22 standing com-
mittees which deal with finance,
economics, labor, food, public educa-
tion, public health, and so on.

Leading political party in the City
Assembly, chosen at the Oct. 20, 1946
election, is the Social Democratic
Party (SPD) with 63 members, followed
by the Christian Democratic Union
(CDU) 27, the communist-dominated
Socialist Unity Party (SED) 22, and the
Liberal Democrats (LDP) 18.

The Magistrat is the executive
authority which carries out the ad-

5

ministration of the city and represents
Berlin externally. By a two-thirds vote
of the total membership of the City
Assembly, the Magistrat may be
dismissed from office, provided the
Allied Kommandatura concurred.

Ordinances and statutes are issued
by the Magistrat for implementing or
executing legislative measures of the
City Assembly or the Allied Komman-
datura. Resolutions (legal enactments)
by the City Assembly require agree-
ment by the Magistrat but non-con-
currence by the latter can be overrul-
ed by a two-thirds vote of the City
Assembly.

For the purposes of local ad-
ministration, the city of Greater Berlin
is divided into 20 administrative di-
stricts or boroughs (Verwaltungs-
bezirke), each headed by a borough
president (also known in German as
Buergermeister) as the city executive
officer. Each borough president also
presides over a district administrative
office (Bezirksamt) composed of
himself, nine members and a deputy
president, all of whom are elected
by the district assembly (Bezirks-
verordnetenversammlung) which in
turn is elected by the citizens of each
borough at the same time that elec-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
tions for the main City Assembly are
held.

Each District Assembly has 30, 40
or 45 members depending on the total
population of the borough. By a two-
thirds vote of the total membership
of the District Assembly the borough
president and the other members of
the administrative office can be re-
moved from office provided the sec-
toral Military Government concurs.

In general the District Assembly
deals legislatively with local matters
not covered by city-wide legislation
and with directives or orders issued
by the City Assembly and the Ma-
gistrat relating to the borough, which
require further legislative elaboration
or implementation. Its meetings are
public and are held at least once a
month.

The 20 district administrative of-
fices are supervised by the Magistrat
and each borough president is subject
to the supervision of the city’s mayor.
Together the 20 borough presidents
and the city’s mayor form the Council
of Mayors which meets for the pur-
pose of coordinating local and central
administration.

The division of the 20 boroughs
among the sectors of the four occupy-
ing powers is: British (4)—Wilmers-
dorf, Charlottenburg, Spandau and
Tiergarten; French (2)—Wedding and
Reinickendorf; US (6)—Zehlendorf,
Steglitz, Tempelhof, Neukoelln, Schoe-
neberg and Kreuzberg; Soviet (8)—
Mitte, Prenzlauer Berg, Friedrichshain,
Treptow, Koepenick, Lichtenberg,
Weissensee and Pankow.

HE FIRST PHASE of Allied oc-

cupation in Berlin was also the
first phase of political development.
For two months the Russians were
the only occupying force in the city
and activation of Soviet political
plans was the over-all purpose.

The Russians brought along with
them about 20 German Communists
who had been trained and designated
for Berlin (chiefly in Moscow) in
many cases for a matter of years. For
a long time the Russians had a highly
developed plan for the spread of
their ideology and in this plan the
possible occupation of Berlin had a
high priority.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Consequently the Russian activities
during their period of unilateral con-
trol of the city were swift and sure,
including establishment of a “sym-
pathetic” city administration, or-
ganization of a Communist-dominated
trade union, and formation of various
Communist front organizations, for
example: Kulturbund (Association of
Culture),

They also authorized a Communist -

political party, the KPD, and three
other political parties, the SPD, CDU
and LDP, with insistence that the four
political parties must work together

Maj. Gen, A. G, Kotikov, commander
of the Soviet garrison and comman-
dant of the Soviet Sector of Berlin,
at Alliied Kommandatura meeting.
(photo by PIO, OMGUS)

and with encouragement that arbitrary
control must be organized from top
to bottom, rather than from bottom
to top.

In all cases the Russians saw to it
that their people occupied vitally key
positions (even if ostensibly sub-
ordinate) rather than the first repre-
sentative places. They did not care
about the person of the mayorproviding
he! was sufficiently compliant, but they
were very much concerned about the
head of the Personnel Department and
the important persons in fields of
labor, education, etc. The general
tendency of the USSR, using the Ger-

6

man Communists as a tool, was
create an immovable status quo in
many social and political situations ,
practicable.

HE SECOND PHASE contin
from July 1945 to the spring
1946. During this period the wes
Allies arrived on the scene and sigq
an agreement certifying what he
been done by the Russians, wil
scrutinizing the situation care
The USSR participated in at lea
appearance of Allied unity and
blocking of Kommandatura
ference with progress of the
munist plan was done in an
parently cooperative atmosphere,
Change of name of the KPD to
and forced amalgamation of the §
was ordered and accomplished
Soviet Zone but was blocked in Bi
With Allied support of the rig
the Berlin Social Democrats to
their political independence, it be
clear that Soviet relations with
other Allies were neither since:
devoted to a common purpose. —
The third phase, which maj
described as lasting from the sg;
of 1946 to Oct. 20, 1946, was o1
apparently successful coop
since a temporary constitu
Berlin was agreed upon, als
election under democratic guara
The effort to achieve cooperation
so pronounced that when in A
1946 the SPD complained to the A
Kommandatura of terror tactics
against them in the Soviet Sector,
US, British and French represent
agreed, at the request of the §
commandant, to warn the ,
speedy punishment if they did
cease making such accusations.
It is possible that the Russia

Communists had
prior to 1933. 4
HE FOURTH PHASE has €0

ed from the first postwar
elections to the present time am
been signified by a steady d
action of Allied relations, i.
vs. western Allies, and by
(Continued on

in elections

--- Page 10 ---
DENAZIFICATION
NEARS COMPLETION

FTER THREE YEARS of effort, the
A primary mission of the denazi-
fication procedure in the US Zone is
virtually completed. Practically all first
trials have been disposed of and the
personnel of denazification tribunals
and ministries is being progressively
decreased. More than 12,500,000 Ger-
mans have been assessed sanctions
or exonerated depending upon their
activities during the Nazi regime.

Originally a Military Government
function, the denazification program
is being concluded by the Germans
themselves. Designed to strengthen
democratic elements in Germany, to
provide security and to punish the
active Nazis and militarists, denazi-
fication was in the hands of MG
Special Branch offices up to June 1,
1946,

Special Branch investigated the po-
litical backgrounds of Germans in
public office and in important po-
sitions in quasi-public and private
enterprise to remove more than nom-
inal Nazis and militarists from their
posts. The procedure for carrying out
these investigations had been estab-
lished by SHAEF prior to the in-
vasion of Normandy. After the dis-
Solution of SHAEF, a new denazificat-
ion directive was published by USFET
on July 7, 1945, which was in force in
the US Zone until the promulgation
on March 5, 1946, of the German Law

for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism,

Murary GOVERNMENT gather-
ed its information about in-

dividuals from a detailed personal-

Franz von Papen (right), pre-Nazi
German chancellor, vice chancellor
under Hitler and Nazi ambassador to
Turkey, hears himself sentenced to
eight years at hard labor by a German
enazification tribunal at Nuremberg.
a Previously had been acquitted of
ar crimes charges by the Internatio-
Nal Military Tribunal.

(US Army Signal Corps photo)

OCTOBER 19, 194g

By Mr. Theo E. Hall
Chief, Public Safety Branch
Civil Administration Division

OMGUS

history questionnaire, the well-known
Fragebogen, and from document cen-
ters, newspapers, files and intelligence
sources, After the assembled data was
studied an applicant found himself
placed in one of five categories of
employability: mandatory removal;
discretionary removal with adverse
recommendation; discretionary  re-
moval with no adverse recommen-
dation; no evidence of Nazi activity;
and evidence of anti-Nazi activity.
Unless the applicant's case was
appealed to the USFET appeal board,
Military Government's decision was
final.

Special Branch Denazification Findings
Cumulative as of 31 May 1946

Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden, Hesse
Non-Employment Mandatory . . . . 247,193
Employment Discretionary (Adverse

Reconfmendation) ee ee « 101,077
Employment Discretionary (No Adverse

Recommendation) .... - + 396,506
No evidence of Nazi Activity . 770,908
Evidence of Anti-Nazi Activity . 6,148

Total 1,521,832

June 1946 marked a dramatic change
in the US Zone's denazification pro-
gram: Military Government relin-

quished to the German governments
the task of eradicating remnants of
Nazism from their own people. Only
a few positions, such as those in the
US forces and in the new German de-
nazification ministries, were subject
both to German and MG screening.
By this time the screening of persons
by Military Government in public and
semi-public offices had been virtually
completed and there was no danger
of assumption of control by former
Nazis.

HIS TRANSFER of power followed

the US basic occupation policy of
offering responsibility to the Germans
as soon as possible without allowing
leadership in the US Zone to fall into
the hands of ex-Nazis.

On March 5, 1946, the Military Gov-
ernor approved a draft German law
submitted by the three states then
forming the US Zone: Bavaria, Wuert-
temberg-Baden and Hesse, Afterward,
each state enacted an identical law,
known as the Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism,
placing the responsibility for de-
nazification upon the German people,
establishing the legal bases for the
charges, decisions and punishments
(known as sanctions), and creating the
legal machinery to operate the law.
In this phase of denazification, the de-

--- Page 11 ---
cisions were judicial and the whole
procedure was conducted with the full
force of law.

Under the provisions of the Law for
Liberation, everyone over 18 years of
age resident in the US Zone had to
register and to complete a personal
questionnaire called Meldebogen,
showing his political history and other
pertinent data. By May 31, 1948, ap-
proximately 13,000,000 persons had
registered.

INISTRIES of Political Liberation

were created in each state as
well as courts known as trial tribunals
in each city and county, appellate
courts, and a prosecuting staff. The
law made chargeable not only Nazi
officials and party members, but also
all members of the Nazi formations
except the Hitler Youth (HJ) and the
Association of German Girls (BDM).
All chargeable persons were removed
summarily from any positions above
ordinary labor and could not be
reemployed in them until there had
been a final tribunal decision in their
favor.

Because of natural local pressure
by less incriminated persons, tri-
bunals developed a tendency during
the first few months to devote all
their energy to disposing of the not-
chargeable and the less-incriminated
cases,

Denazification Cases not Chargeable Completed
by Trial Tribunals

October 1946—March 1947

Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden, Hesse

Found Not Completed by

During Month of Chargeable Trial Tribunals
1946 October 210,982 32,034
November 211,569 39,432
December 111,563 36,710
1947 January 270,824 28,323
February 436,453, 28,145
March 697,532 28,396

There were, for example, 3,527,000
chargeable cases at the close of March
1947, The average monthly rate for
the proceding six months had been
32,173 trials completed. At this rate,
it would have taken eight and a half
years to complete the trials of those
who were incriminated.

How, then, could the work-load of
the trial tribunals with justice be re-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

duced? One method was to simplify
the trial process by extending an
amnesty to those whose party records
showed only nominal associations as
party members. The Youth Amnesty
already had benn extended in August
1946 to those who would be charged
as follower or less and had been born
after Jan., 1, 1919,

On Dec. 24, 1946, the amnesty prin-
ciple was extended to those whose
chargeable status would not be higher
than follower, and who were either in
a low income group or at least
50 percent disabled. This amnesty,
called the Christmas Amnesty, re-
moved about 1,200,000 chargeable per-
sons from trial. During this period the
efforts of all denazification personnel
were concentrated on determining
who should come within the terms of
the amnesties and in so notifying
them.

HERE WAS considerable variation

between the charges filed by the
prosecutors and the findings of the
tribunals, due to the fact that the
prosecutors were required to charge
persons in the categories named in
the appendix to the law irrespective
of the evidence. It followed in many
cases that the evidence presented at
the trial did not sustain the charge.

Not only was there considerable
variation between the charges and the
findings, but there was also consider-
able variation between the previous
findings by Military Government and
those of the trial tribunals. This var-
iation was to be expected, however,
because the status as determined by
Military Government was an ad-
ministrative decision and not a ju-
dicial finding, and’ was determined on
the basis of a categorical approach
and in relation to fitness for a par-
ticular post or activity.

In addition to the SHAEF directives
on the removal of active Nazis from
posts of responsibility, the occupying
forces were directed automatically to
arrest and intern specified categories
of Nazi leaders, persons in high gov-
ernmental posts during the Third
Reich, and members of the organiza-
tions indicted as criminal by the Inter-
national Military Tribunal. Under this

8

program, by the end of 1945, more
than 100,000 persons had been ar.
rested and interned by US forces,

In February 1946, the categories of
mandatory arrestees and internees
were curtailed, and those who no
longer fell in the automatic arrest
categories were screened by the Us
forces. Those who were not suspecteg
of war crimes or wanted as witnesses
were released. This program con.
tinued until October 1946, when the
civilian internment enclosures were
progressively transferred to the Ger.
man Denazification Ministries.

In Bremen state a Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Mil.
itarism became effective on May, 9
1947,

Bremen Deriazification Data
Cumulative as of March, 31, 1947

Number
Registration received . + 153,089
Registrants apparently not “chargeable 114,408
Cases instituted . 7,479
Cases completed . . . . . 1. . 4,82

The close of March 1947 represented
the end of the first period of activity
under the Law for Liberation, as the
backlog of non-chargeable cases had
been reduced to a negligeable number.

URING the latter part of the de-

nazification program, Military
Government, concerned with the
acceleration of trials, gradually re-
moved its controls and supervision.
Military Government also made an
examination of the extent to whic
the legal restrictions on employment
of Nazis, as set forth in the Law, and
the employment sanctions imposed by
tribunals, were being observed in
public agencies and private enter-
prises. In addition, it made a study of
the enforcement of sanctions.

The status of denazification as of
May, 31, 1947, based upon a survey of
the three states made by the ministers
of political liberation, showed that of
the 11,900,000 registrations received
up to that time, 959,000 had been
classified by the prosecutors as be
longing to persons who were heavily
incriminated and would be charged a8
major offenders, offenders, or lesser
offenders. An additional 472,000
would be charged as being less

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
heavily incriminated, but subject to
trial. Of the remainder, 8,631,000 had
been determined to be not chargeable
under the law. Under the youth
amnesty, 888,000 had been amnestied,
and 973,000 more cleared under the
Christmas amnesty. Of the heavily in-
criminated group, 18 percent had
been tried, and of the less heavily in-
criminated group, 38 percent had been
tried.

Jt was apparent that the program
was far from completed, and amend-
ments to the Law for Liberation were
considered.

The results of the mandatory charge
provisions of the law had long been
a matter of concern to the staffs of
the ministries and were being care-
fully watched by Military Government.
The German authorities held that
public prosecutors should have the
tight to determine the charge on the
basis of each investigation and the
evidence available. Military Govern-
ment had seen that, in spite of the
mandatory charge provisions, the tri-
bunals had based their findings upon
evidence of activity during the Nazi
regime and not solely upon rank in
the Nazi party or membership held.

Another problem was that of the
“followers,” who had not been in-
cluded in the amnesties and who
continued to insist on early trials so
they would not be compelled to re-
main in positions of ordinary labor.
Therefore, in October 1947 when the
German state governments presented
amendments to correct these two
points and thereby expedite the pro-
cessing of chargeable cases, they were
approved by Military Government.

HESE AMENDMENTS provided

that the charges previously re-
quired of major offender, offender
and lesser offender would no longer
be mandatory for those persons who
were not members of organizations
which had been found criminal by the
International Military Tribunal and
against whom there was no evidence
of activity in the Nazi party other
than membership; that persons charge-
able as followers under the law might
Tesume all positions prior to their
appearance before a tribunal except
certain key posts; and, that tribunals

OCTOBER 19, 1948

would have discretion in settling the
length of probation for lesser of-
fenders, previously set at a minimum
period of two years.

The amendments did not change the
basic objective of denazification,
which continued to be the seeking
out and punishing of the real offen-
ders of the Nazi regime. They did
permit, however, charges to be made
in accordance with the actual evi-
dence, and not merely in accordance
with the mandatory provision of the
law. In addition, persons who were
subject to charge as followers could
resume positions other than ordinary
labor pending trial. Finally, a dis-
cretionary factor was approved in
setting the probation term for a lesser
offender, in view of the penalties
under which he had been already
placed since the passage of the law.
These penalties included exclusion
from all jobs other than ordinary
labor, blocking of property and li-
mitation on rights of citizenship.

N INVENTORY of cases still to
be completed was made in Jan-
uary 1948 which permitted an ap-

proximate time schedule of the pro-
gram to be set up. In the US Zone
on Jan. 31, there remained to be
tried 519,697 cases (or 4.2 percent of
the 12,265,046 total number of reg-
istrants) of which 287,795 (or five
percent) would be subject to the ex-
pedited trial process arising from the
amendments. This left a greatly re-
duced number, 231,902 (45 percent) to
be tried in the normal manner. The
latter number was 1.9 percent of the
total number of registrants.

This situation represented a com-
plete reversal from that at the end of
December, when the data submitted
indicated that 62 percent of the back-
log still remained to be tried by
normal procedures, and only 38 per-
cent of the backlog was subject to the
expedited process.

In spite of the wholesome effect of
the amendments of October, there still
remained factors that continued to
retard the processing of the trial cases.
Further amendments to the Law for
Liberation were made, therefore, in
March 1948. These amendments
allowed public prosecutors full dis-

ARTICLES ON DENAZIFICATION

Denazification was from the start
of the occupation one of the top
priority aims and the early issues
of the Information Bulletin carried
many articles, giving instructions,
information and reactions on this
subject. Some of these were the
following:

The Drive to End Nazism, No. 1, July 28, 1945.

Former Propagandists (German reaction),
No. 1, July 28, 1945.

Denazification is Your Job, No. 2, Aug. 4, 1945.

Farmers Like Free Speech (German reaction),
No. 3, Aug. 11, 1945.

The Abrogation of Nazi Law, No. 4, Aug. 18,
1945,

The Future Nazi Propaganda Line, No. 4,
Aug. 18, 1945,

German Moral Rearmament Demanded
man reaction), No. 4, Aug. 18, 1945.

Denunciation and Cooperation (German re-
action), No. 5, Aug. 25, 1945.

Removal of Nazis and Militarists (by Major
Keith Wilson), No. 8, Sept. 15, 1945.

Qualified Approval of Denazification (German
reaction), No, 8, Sept. 15, 1945.
Danger of Nazi Solidarity in Small Towns
(German reaction), No. 8, Sept. 15, 1945.
General Eisenhower Reaffirms Total Denazi-
fication, No. 9, Sept. 2, 1945.

The “Plight* of the Innocent Young Nazi
(German reaction), No. 9, Sept. 22, 1945.
Law No. 8 — Prohibition of Employment of
Nazis, No, 10, Sept. 29, 1945.

What to Do with the Nazis? (German reaction),
No. 11, Oct. 6, 1945.

9

(Ger-

Nazi Purge: Mental Side (German reaction),
No. 12, Oct. 13, 1945.

Reaction to Law 8 (German reaction,, No. 13,
Oct. 20, 1945.

The Necessity of Law No. 8 (German reaction),
No. 16, Nov. 10, 1945,

Denazification — Unfinished Business, No. 18,
Nov. 24, 1945.

German Political Leaders on Denazification
(German reaction), No. 19, Dec. 1, 1945.
Denazification Policy Unified (ACA action),

No. 27, Feb, 2, 1946.

Proposed Denazification Program for the US
Zone, No. 27, Feb. 2, 1946.

Denazification by Germans (German Law for
Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism), No. 32, March 9, 1946.

German Press Favors New Denazification
Law, No. 35, April 1, 1946.

Are There ‘Good’ Nazis? (outstanding and

often-reprinted article), No. 37, April 15,
1946,
Germans Begin their own Denazification,

No. 38, April 22, 1946.

Denazifying the Reichspost,
1946,

MG Agencies Winding up Denazification
Affairs, No, 43, May 27, 1946

German Organizations under the Third Reich,
No, 44, June 3, 1946.

Two New Decrees Point toward Further De-
nazification, No. 46, June 17, 1946.

Now It's Up to the Germans, No. 49, July 8,
1946,

Proof of Nazy Guilt, No. 58, Sept. 9, 1946.

Denazification: German Version, No, 64, Oct.
21, 1946.

The Verdict (part on criminal organizations),
No, 62, Oct. 7, 1946.

No. 40, May 6,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
cretion in filing charges against in-
criminated persons except those
charged as Class I offenders before
the tribunals; removed pre-trial re-
strictions against all untried persons
except those in the Class I categories
(Class I includes presumptive major
offenders), allowing them to reenter
all positions in private industry and
business except key positions; and
allowed tribunals in passing sentence
on lesser offenders and followers to
consider pre-trial restrictions under
which chargeable persons had been
living.

In addition, during April, Military
Government directly assisted the Ger-
man denazification agencies by mak-
ing available to them MG facilities,
records and assistance in selecting
the most heavily incriminated cases
for formal trials. Prosecutors were
authorized to dispose of the remainder
of the untried cases by routine written
proceedings where there was no
evidence except nominal rank or
membership in the Nazi party.

HE DATE of May, 1, 1948, which

had been set for the completion
of all first trials, was met with the
exception of a relatively small num-
ber (32,000) of heavily incriminated
cases, which still remained to be tried,
and which constituted about 0.03 per-
cent of the total denazification pro-
gram. This number did not include
new registrants who continued to re-
gister under the law at the average
rate of about 20,000 per month. These
persons included returning PW’s, re-
fugees and infiltrees and other per-
sons establishing domicile in the
US Zone for the first time.

Status of Denazification Operations
As of May, 31, 1948
US Zone (incl. Bremen)

Number Percent

Total Registrants + 12,797,703 100.0

Not Chargeable Cases. . 9,467,073 74.0

Total Chargeable Cases 3,330,630 26.0
Chargeable Cases Com-

pleted ..... 3,238,923 26.3
Amnestied without
Trial... . . . 2,373,115 18,5
Trials Completed . . 865,808 6.8
Chargeable Cases to be
Completed. . . 91,707 0.7
By Trial... .. 31,707 0.2
By Expediting Process 60,000 0.5

(Those cases to be completed by
expediting process occur in Bavaria

INFORMATION BULLETIN

only and are completed, except for
routine clerical work.)

By the end of June progress had
been made in reducing the backlog
of appeal cases and of the number of
persons awaiting trial. There were
3,545 new cases received in June and
6,643 taken off the docket either by
adjudication (5,711) or refusal to
accept (927). As of June 30, 28,961
appeal cases had been adjudicated,
more than half of which (16,143) were
cases of persons who had been found
to be lesser offenders by trial tri-
bunals. Of the latter, 109 had been
upgraded to offender; 3,099 affirmed
as lesser offenders; 7,235 downgraded
to follower; and the remaining 5,703
exonerated or amnestied.

N THE FIELD of quadripartite de-

nazification, Control Council Di-
rective No. 24, which was based on
the early MG directive, was promul-
gated shortly before the Law for Li-
beration was enacted in the US Zone
(March, 5, 1946). Therefore, the US
delegation introduced another pro-
posal in the Control Council which
would extend to all of Germany the
definitions of categories and the
sanction contained in the US. Zone
Law for Liberation. In October 1946,
after further months of negotiation,
this proposal was enacted as Control
Council Directive No. 38.

In April 1947 the Council of For-
eign Ministers, meeting in Moscow,
agreed on a five point denazification
program for Germany. When the Con-
trol Council received the Council of
Foreign Ministers directive, negotiat-
ions began immediately to implement
the program in Germany. Each of the
delegations presented a proposal for
implementing the Council of Foreign
Ministers’ agreement in the light of
its own interpretation. However, it
was not possible to achieve agreement
and no uniform implementation of the
CFM agreement on denazification was
promulgated by the Control Council.
Again, as in the case of the two
previous quadripartite denazification
directives, the agreement of the Coun-
cil of Foreign Ministers is being im-
plemented in full in the US Zone.

10

Penalty of Negligence

Bavarians were urged by Military
Government to study their con.
stitutional rights, following an incident
in which due process of law was
suspended in violation of the Bavarian
constitution, The case concerned a
youth who was deprived of liberty
without hearing or trial, through
negligence on the part of the German
police and a German court.

Bernhard Stersinsky, 17, was ar.
rested on May 4 on charges of illega]
border crossing. The youth was heid
by the police for a full week without
being interrogated. Another 10 days
elapsed before the local German court
issued a proper arrest order and
granted him a hearing. He was tried
on May 31 and acquitted after almos‘
a month of detention.

In a letter to the Bavarian minister,
president, OMG for Bavaria pointed!
out that this is a contravention of
a basic concept of due process of
law, since the Bavarian constitution
provides that every person arrested
by public authority must be brought
before a competent judge not later
than one day after the arrest, be
informed of the grounds for the arrest
and be given an opportunity to raise
objections thereto.

Similar provisions are contained in
Control Council and MG laws.

The minister president has been
requested to investigate the case and
take disciplinary measures against the
individuals concerned.

“Regulations such as these are
fundamental and sacred rights which
a democracy accords to every person
as an element of due process of law,
and the people must understand their
rights and privileges under the
constitution so that they may protest
themselves from infringement by
public authority," Mr. Leo Goodman,
chief of the German Courts Branch,
Legal Division, OMGB, said in @
statement.

Constitution Approved

The constitution and statutes of the
International College and the Institute
of European Affairs at Marburg
Hesse, have received ministerial and
parliamentary approval. Budgetary
allotments sufficient for the next few
months have been made.

OCTOBER 19, 1988

--- Page 14 ---
Members of the Falcons (Falken) shown as they assembled in Stuttgart's Neckar stadium from all sections of the US Zone.
(DENA-Bild)

ORGANIZATIONS

OLUNTARY YOUTH organizat-

ions have given an important
Stimulus to youth work in the US
Zone of Germany, It is through these
organizations—churches, sport groups,
trade unions and others—that young
People in: Germany have found a
Means of expression for their religious,
athletic and social interests.
_ Membership in youth organizations
Ncreased from 200,000 in 1946 to more
than 1,200,000 at the end of March,
1948, OF this number, approximately
90 percent belong to the three major
Youth organizations: religious, sport
id trade union. About 55 percent
of the members are male. However,
a certain groups, notably religious,

te are more girls than boys.

ie tgious youth , organizations are

the largest numerically of ali

OCTOBER 19, 104g

youth groups in Germany, As of last
March there were more than 468,770
members in these youth groups, as
compared with 358,696 a year ago. A
little less than two-thirds of them
are Catholic, more than half of whom
are in Bavaria.

The Evangelical youth groups make
up the other third, with the Free
Church organizations composing a
very small percentage. There are also
a number of youth groups of special
organizations including Quakers, Chri-

stian Scientists, Bahai and Old
Catholic.
Although religious groups are

numerically the strongest, their influ-
ence on German youth has not ap-
peared to be greater than the others.
In general, they have been closely
related to the official churches and

11

there has been little opportunity for
the young people themselves to exert
any influence.

N OBSERVER, after attending a

meeting of Protestant youth pas-
tors from all four zones, made the
following indicative statement: “It was
‘evident that the pastors, far from
encouraging the development of self-
initiative and self-government in their
youth groups, exercised very close
control of them, seeking first and
foremost to guard them from any
possible contact with the youth of
other groups.”

A similar attitude is noticeable in
a number of counties, where the
religious groups have refused to
register with county youth committees
for fear of control. Some have refused
to turn in reports on membership to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Military Government, unless given
direct orders to do so. It has also
been observed that certain church
groups are the least interested in
receiving assistance from GYA

On the other hand, among the
Catholic and Evangelical church youth
elements a few noteworthy events
have taken place. The socalled “Boys
Town" at Vilbel, Hesse, operated
by the Evangelical Church of Hesse
with the assistance of a US Military
Post MP battalion, is one of the most
hopeful projects in Germany today.

The recent establishment of the
Young Catholic Workers, similar to
and inspired by the Jeunesse Ouvriere
Catholique (Catholic Working Youthi
in France and Belgium indicated that
certain groups in the church are
aware of their responsibility to all
young people.

What is believed to be the first
meeting of its kind in Germany was
held in Berlin when a Catholic priest,
a Protestant pastor and a Jewish rabbi
addressed a group of young people
representing all three faiths.

Although the German YMCA and
YWCA are still closely connected
with the church, special mention
should be made of their independent
activities. Both organizations have full
time leadership training schools, the
YWCA at Herzfeld, Hesse, and Ber-
lin, and the YMCA at Kassel.

The latter, managed by the same
persons who ran it before 1933, has
shown a keen interest in the returned
prisoners of war, many of whom
learned of the YMCA for the first
time in PW camps. It has set up a
number of rest homes in an effort to
help them become rehabilitated.
Furthermore, the YMCA has begun
work for juvenile delinquents in in-
dustrial areas,

In spite of these encouraging deve-
lopments, the majority of religious
groups do not conceive of youth work
as much more than Bible study and
related activities. Most of them seem
to have a fear of anything connected
with socialism and are often reluctant
to cooperate with non-religious
groups.

N SPITE OF limited facilities and

equipment, the sports organizations
throughout Germany have made pro-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

gress. In Baden, different types of
sports follow organized schedules; in
Wuerttemberg, 3,224 teams were enroll-
ed in all categories of different soccer
leagues, and 1,700 teams participated
in German handball during September,
1947.

The first athletic stadium to be
rebuilt since the occupation began
opened Sept. 7, 1947, at Karlsruhe-
Muehlberg, Wuerttemberg-Baden, with
a seating capacity of 2,000 and stand-
ing room for 18,000. Athletic matches
have attracted capacity crowds every
Sunday in virtually all cities through-
out Germany.

During the past year, members of
sport groups increased from 280,454
to 418,707, about one-third of whom
are women; but in view of the fact
that the adult and youth sections of
sports groups are not separated, it is
impossible to determine what per-
centage of the total comprises the
younger set.

A discussion developed among
sports leaders concerning the type of
organization which German sports
should follow: one single all-inclusive-
organization vs. organization by type
of sport. The issue came to a head
in Wuerttemberg-Baden, where the
state Sport Association assumed that
it had an exclusive hold on all sports
because it was licensed by Military
Government.

12

After Military Government expla ing
that this was a misconceived not
five independent sports groups ¢
quested licenses. The licenses, w]
were granted led eventually to
dissolution of the association,
ever, the independent organizatio
did cooperate voluntarily in the
mation of a mutual coordinat
committee.

This type of organizational
ture was considered more favor
since it is opposed to the develo,
of one centralized sports organiza’
such as existed under the Nazi reg
Foreign sports groups have indic
that they are hesitant to recog
German sports as long as they ;
organized on a centralized basis,

PORT ENTHUSIASTS in G

have regretted the fact that
teams have not been able to resi
playing matches with other countri
although a few tentative attem
have been made by the latter
renew contacts, A German
champion played in Sweden s
times, and in Wuerttemberg-]
in November, 1947, a Swiss so
team played the first internatiot
match in Germany since the begin
of the occupation. A number of
man teams have, in addition,

--- Page 16 ---
the occupation forces or displaced
persons.

In order to meet the need for
trained sport leaders, a sport college
was opened in Cologne during the
summer of 1947. It serves both the
British and US Zones, but because
of housing conditions in Cologne only
12 US Zone students of the 163 enroll-
ed could be accommodated during
the last semester, Entrance to the
college requires the same quali-
fications as admission to any institute
of higher education.

The school provides a two-year
course, but a number of sport organi-
zations in the US Zone have begun
to sponsor short-term courses (two
weeks to two months) for physical
education instructors, who are needed
to reduce the prevailing deficencies
in the number of such instructors for
sport groups and schools,

In addition, a sport school was
opened in Bavaria, the primary
function of which is the training of
school teachers who can devote part
of their time to teaching physical
education in the public schools.

HE MOST rapidly growing youth

group in Germany today is that
of the young trade unionists, which
had a membership of 162,751 members
in March. It is the third largest type
of youth organization in the US-
occupied area, and its growth has
been due largely to help from the
adult trade unions and the very im-
portant role which these associations
play in Germany.

The first interzonal conference of
the trade union youth was held in
Hallthurm, near Berchtesgaden, Ba-
varia, on Jan. 15-17, A total of 51
Tepresentatives of the four zones and
Berlin were present.

Trade union youths have heid
Weekend training courses on political
and labor questions, and on the
cultural and civic Prospects for young
Workers, Since this group composes
the largest number of young people
Outside the school, and since no
other youth group has the same ap-
Peal to working youth, the trade
Unions hold a strategic position in the
ver-all youth picture,

Boy and Girl Scout organizations
(Pfadfinder) have been permitted in

© US-occupied area for the past two

OCTOBER 19, 1948

years, and by last March there
were 7,000 scouts in Germany, of
whom about 1,000 were girls. One of
the main reasons for this smaller
number is that it has been difficuit
to find satisfactory leaders for either
group. In Hesse and Berlin a number
of proposed Boy Scout leaders were
disapproved by Military Government
for political and other reasons.

The Girl Scouts have been better
advised and have worked slowly,
stressing the need for good leaders
before establishing any organization.
One of the most stimulating of their
leadership courses was a set of two
training conferences held in July, 1947,
at Ruedesheim, Hesse, attended by
Girl Scout leaders from four foreign
countries.

Through such international contacts,
including a four-week training
program in Sweden, the Girl Scout

This summary of youth organi-
zations was taken from the
recently-issued cumulative re-
view, “Education and Cultural
Relations,” an annex of the
Monthly Governor, No. 34. A
similar article on youth activities
appeared in Issue No. 144 of the
Information Bulletin.

movement has received real impetus,
but it has been necessary for the Girl
Scout organizations to separate
themselves administratively from their
male counterparts, so that they mignt
develop freely and independently.

Representatives of Girl Scout
groups from the US Zone met in
Stuttgart in October, 1947, to plan
cooperation among the various groups,
particularly with a view toward ob-
taining eventual recognition by the
World Bureau of Scouts.

The Boy Scouts have not progressed
as much as the Girls Scouts in taking
steps to gain world recognition.
Today certain small nuclei are falling
in line with international scouting
policy — the Eangelical Scouts, Catholic
Scouts (St. George), and certain non-
confessional groups. In Bavaria and
Bremen they have all agreed to work
together, consequently forming a
Pfadfinder association in which each
group maintains its independence.

13

NE OF THE leading politically-
minded youth groups to reappear
after the war is the Falcons (Falken),

_ frequently referred to as the socialistic

youth movement of Germany, which
has developed along similar lines in
all states and Berlin, resulting in a
strongly centralized organization. The
headquarters of the “working com-
mittee” of the Falcons is in Hanover,
Lower Saxony. In March the Falcons
had 33,809 members in the US-occu-
pied, or 2.6 percent of the total
membership of all youth groups,

In structure and philosophy the
Falcons are closely related to the
Social Democratic Party but there :s
reason to believe that it has been able
to maintain independence of action,
even though receiving various kinds
of support from the SPD. Its leaders
are young, and in many cases more
imaginative than the older politicians
of the SPD.

The Falcons were forbidden by
Hitler in 1933 and for 12 years had
no opportunity to train leaders for
its organization. The present ones are
youthful, energetic and enthusiastic,
but often lack experience.

To assist and to orient them, the
Falcons established a’ leadership
training schoo] at Walkmuehle, Mel-
sungen, Hesse, on May 12, 1947, an
old traditional territory that belonged
to the Falcons before 1933. Besides
this, a number of the Falcons have
had the opportunity to meet with other
socialistic youth groups abroad and
have attended conferences in Den-
mark, Sweden and France.

One of the strongholds of the
Falcons is in Hanau, Hesse, where the
members have reconstructed their
own youth center, one of the few
instances where a youth group has
acted on its own initiative.

The Falcons’ chief event during
the past year was the Socialistic
Youth Congress in Stuttgart Aug.
29-31, 1947, on the occasion of the
40th anniversary of the founding of
the socialistic international youth.

The organizers had expected 15,000,
but less than one-third that number
attended. Immediately before tine
Congress, 2,000 had participated in a
two-week tent camp which was
criticized by the local population,
particularly because of the general
misconduct of a number of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
campers. It is evident that such large
demonstrations have more of a po-
litical character than any educational
or social purpose.

HE OTHER politically-minded

group, the Free German Youth
(FDJ), is smaller than the Falcons but
more active. In March it had almost
10,000 members in the US-occupied
area, including 2,514 members in the
Society of Youth in Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

The latter organization, while
claiming to be completely independent
of the FDJ, has nevertheless requested
permission to become associated with
the FDJ of Bavaria and Hesse, with
which it can be compared in its
general activity. The request has
never been made to organize the FDJ
in Wuerttemberg-Baden, since it is
quite obvious that the Society of
Youth is a partner organization,

Like the Falcons, the FDJ is highly
centralized, Its headquarters are n
the Soviet Sector of Berlin, and it is
still the only youth organization
permitted in the Soviet Zone, where
it claims to have about 500,000 mem-
bers. While purporting to be supra-
party, 11 of the 16 members of its
central committee belong to the Com-
munistic Social Unity Party (SED).

At a meeting of this committee in
January the three non-SED members

resigned, leaving only the religious
Tepresentatives and the SED mem-
bers. In March, however, representa-
tives of the Liberal Democratic
Party (LDP) and Christian Democratic
Union (CDU) were replaced, appar-
ently to keep the semblance of non-
party affiliation and the appear-
ance that the organization is open
to all. Whereas the Falcons do
not always follow the SPD line, it is
obvious that the Free German Youth
is controlled by the SED.

However, the FDJ has assumed a
radically-different approach to youth
problems in the eastern zone than in
the western: in the former the FDJ
has been more positive in its activity;
in the latter almost completely
negative. This was demonstrated at
meeting of the Hesse FDJ state
association, when the first day of the
conference was spent in criticizing
all other youth groups, German
youth officials, and Military Govern-
ment.

The leadership of the FDJ is in the
hands of well-trained and capable
persons. Some of them have received
their training outside of Germany,
although on the local level most of
the younger leaders are indigenously
trained, a number of whom attented
the main FDJ leadership training
school at Waldhof, near Berlin.

Members of the 1948 championship football (European) team of Germany
being introduced by Hans Hofmann, president of the First Football Club
of Nuremberg, at a sports banquet recently. Lt. Col. J. C. Barnett, MGO
at Nuremberg, was host and toastmaster. It was the seventh time the
Nuremberg club had won the championship. Following the banquet,
motion pictures of American football and of the second Louis-Walcott
boxing fight, were shown.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Amy Signal Corps)

14

Here, 60 to 80 students take part
an eight-weeks course which
divided into three-fourth theory ;
about onefourth practical youth w
The FDJ claims to have 36
leadership schools where over
young people have received trai

HE FDJ is the only
oiganization that has appe
to the Allied Control Authority |
recognition on a “national"
The application, however, was
jected by a three-to-one vote on |
ground that the time is not 3
favorable for national youth |
ganizations, ;
On the local level, the FDJ hash
several of its proposed constitutio
returned for revision because
were undemocratic. One prop
provided that 100 percent of {
membership dues should be t
over to higher headquarters,

The Friends of Nature (Ne
freunde) have 18,276 members in
US Zone, drawn mainly from 0
the working class. This organizati
was first established in 1895 —
Vienna, Austria, with the followin
aims and objectives: F

“Striving for the better enjoym
and understanding of nature; impro
ment of the standard of living of
workers through socialism; estab
ment of hostels which will
workers and their children an @
portunity to spend the nigh
vacations in the woods at a
cheap price.”

These principles are still ace
by the Friends of Nature
although the leadership in
areas recently began to show ¢
munistic influence. In Bava:
Friends of Nature have 21 b
in contrast to more than 50 bt
1933, and in Wuerttemberg-Bade

At the end of March, dele
from 12 states in the three
zones met in Hesse to coordinat
standardize practices and
among the state organiza
Emphasis was placed on the
cooperation between the Fri
Nature and other organization
with Military Government,
plans were made to organize
for delinquents and homeless

OCTOBER

--- Page 18 ---
RUNDFUNK IM AMERIKANISCHEN SECTOR

HE New York Times recently noted

that MG's Berlin radio station,
RIAS, had very effectively dramatized
the famous Kosenkina case for its
large German audience. A few days
earlier, the United Press mentioned
RIAS for highly useful reporting of
the attempted coup in the Berlin city
hall, the same source which previously
credited RIAS with a “scoop” on the
mysterious death of Jan Masaryk.
The world press, therefore, is
beginning to take notice of the
effectiveness of a radio station which
broadcasts truth 120 miles behind the
iron curtain.

The story of Radio RIAS began
nearly three years ago when quadri-
partite discussions over the control of
Radio Berlin broke down. When the
city was captured by the Red Army
the Russians found that Radio Berlin,
including technical equipment, studios
and thousands of recordings, was
intact and in working order. Less than
a week after the capitulation of the
city, Radio Berlin was on the air—
under Soviet control.

That control has never been relin-
quished. The western Allies were
confronted with the strange situation
of Radio Berlin studios located in the
British Sector, the transmitter and
antenna located in Tegel in the French

Mr. William F. Heimlich, US station
director, confers with his reporters
during mass tally before Reichstag
(photo by Brandt, RTAS)

building Sept. 9.

Sector, and the Russians allowing
none of the other occupying powers
to use the facilities of the radio
station.

IREQUENT and persistent attempts

were made by US Military Govern-
ment to negotiate the turnover of
Radio Berlin to quadripartite control
throughout the fall of 1945. When it
became apparent that the Soviets
would not relinquish unilateral control
of the station, the US authorities
decided to open their own station on
a small, not directly competitive
scale. This station went into oper-
ation on Feb. 7, 1946, as “Drahtfunk
im Amerikanischen Sektor’ using the
Drahtfunk (wired radio) method of
long-wave transmission over telephone
lines with programs daily from 5 p.m.
to midnight.

The programs were first transmitted
in the US Sector, then extended in
the next several months to the
British Sector in an exchange agree-
ment with the British. Attempts to
make Drahtfunk a city-wide service
failed due to Soviet opposition.

US Military Government, still press-
ing for quadripartite control of Radio
Berlin on various levels in the Allied
Control Authority, warned that the
Soviet attitude was forcing the Amer-
icans to bring in a transmitter and
broadcast to the entire population of
the city. This action was taken.

A mobile 1,000 watt transmitter was
brought to Berlin from Frankfurt and
placed in operation on Sept. 5, 1946.
The program schedule was expanded
to nine hours daily and 13 hours
Sundays, containing newscasts, special
features and “Voice of America”
broadcasts which emphasized demo-
cratic objectivity in juxtaposition to
the Soviet-controlled Radio Berlin one-
sided presentation.

At that time there was also initiated
special political broadcasts including
a series “Spoken Election Posters”

15

RIAS reporter interviews workers on

the street concerning
currency reform.
(photo by Kessler-RIAS)

reactions to

which gave all political parties equal
air time which had been denied by
Radio Berlin in favoring first the
Communists, then the SED, the so-
called Socialist Unity Party.

ITH THE PLACING of the

station, on the air, its name was
changed to Rias (Rundfunk im ame-
rikanischen Sektor). While the Ame-
rican staff of four officers remained
at the same strength, the original staff
of 80 Germans had been
to 200.

increased

The technical service of the station
was still considered inadequate. The
power was increased to 2,000 watts by
installation of a new German trans-
mitter late in 1946 and to 20,000 watts
on June 1, 1947, by installation of a
former German army mobile trans-
mitter that had been captured in Italy
and used by US forces in Austria and
Germany.

Two months after installation of the
20,000 watt transmitter, a public
opinion survey showed that RIAS'
popularity in Berlin jumped 100 per-
cent to an equal footing with Radio

Berlin. Letters from listeners and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
(left) German officials congratulate the RIAS director on the opening
of their new office building: (left to right) Mrs. Louise Schroeder, acting
mayor of Berlin; Jakob Kaiser, Dr. Otto Suhr, Ernst Reuter and Mr.
Heimlich. (right) View of RIAS building in Schoeneberg borough of the

US Sector.

reports of travelers indicated a quickly
rising popularity of RIAS in the Soviet
Zone.

Meanwhile the station had out-
grown its original quarters in a wing
of the Telephone Exchange Building
near the Allied Control Authority
building. Additionel quarters were
taken in two other buildings nearby.
Reconstruction of a building large
enough to house the necessary studio
and other facilities needed for expan-
sion was undertaken in the autumn
of 1947,

The staff moved into the new
quarters during the winter and spring
and formally opened the structure on
July, 1948,

The station had, in March, expanded
its airtime from nine hours a day to
12 hours, and then gradually additional
hours were added until at the present
time the station is on the air 22 hours
a day.

On July 6, 1948, the coverage of the
station was increased by the addition
of a 75,000 watt short-wave transmitter
located in the US Zone and beamed
to eastern Europe. Over the two trans-
mitters, middle-wave and short-wave,
go the “Voice of America,” 19 news
programs a day, two special pro-
grams, Berlin report by RIAS (Berlin
im RIAS) and news flashes (BLITZ-
FUNK), which are designed to keep
the people of central and eastern
Germany informed on the Berlin
situation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(photos by Brandt, RIAS)

They also counteract the propaganda
of the Soviet-controlled stations and
indicate to some 22,000,000 Germans
within its listening range the policies
and aims of the United States and
western European governments.

S THE STATION strengthened its

physical plant, it enlarged its pro-
gram content. In addition to the pro-
grams mentioned above,additional com-
mentators were carefully selected, the
facilities of the station were granted
to the democratic parties in order
that they might express their views
and opinions, the proceedings of the
Berlin City Assembly were broadcast
for all to hear and discussion groups
were scheduled regularly. The latter
include representatives of the trade
unions, political parties, educational
institutions, welfare organizations and
religious groups.

The musical program was more
carefully developed and greatly ex-
panded in order to compete with the
splendid music of the Soviet-controlled
radio station.

Special attention has been given to
combatting the lies, rumors and pro-
paganda of the Soviet stations. For
example, when a Soviet official re-
cently spoke in Leipzig and denounced
US policy as “monopoly-capitalism"
and described the ranking US official
in Germany as “a tool of the Wall
Street bankers,"” RIAS answered imme-
diately with several highly effective
programs dealing with the revival of

16

industry in the western zones, thy
success of the monetary reform an
the arrival of goods and servic
under the Marshall Plan.

When the Soviet Military authorities
began the blockade of Berlin, th
hypocracy of that statement “technical
difficulties’ was exposed, derided ang
labeled for what it was—an attempt
to starve two and a half million per
sons in the western sectors in ord
to force the political will of the Com-
munists upon those peoples. a

When the airlift began bringin
relief to the city, more than 200
separate reportages were made in-
cluding the loading in the western
zones, the flight from Frankfurt toll
Berlin, the unloading process, inter-
views with pilots and broadcasts from:
the control tower.

At the same time that the Soviet
controlled radio and press wel e
saying that the airlift was ineffective
and indeed designed only to plunde
the city, RIAS reports and intervie’
revealed such statements as contra
to fact.

HEN CAME the attempts of th
T Communists to take over Cit
hall and the raids in Potsdamer P|
These incidents were carefully
ported by RIAS at the time the e
took place. When, on Sept. 6
Communists attempted to overth
the city government, RIAS announ'
gave an on-the-spot broadcast of
mob violence against the Berlin Cl
Council at the city hall.

This broadcast was picked up }
radio stations in the US Zone and Wi

OCTOBER 19%

--- Page 20 ---
Jater developed into a special docu-
mentary newscast, ‘What is Happen-
ing in Berlin,” for the Soviet Zone
listeners. RIAS' eye-witness reporting,
which could not be refuted, stirred up
strong public indignation against the
Communist mob tactics,

When the electric power was shut
off due to lack of coal, citizens of the
western sectors were no longer able
to listen to RIAS. The station im-
mediately installed 22 permanent
loudspeakers in the US Sector at
traditional gathering places, The Brit-
ish Military Government installed 50
such loudspeakers in order that RIAS
might be heard in that sector.

Four loudspeaker trucks were pro-
vided by Berlin Military Post and
these trucks began running regular
schedules through the western sectors
of the city, halting in those places
which have no permanent loudspeakers
and sending the news out over the
trucks’ loudspeakers. It is estimated
that 150,000 people hear the news in
this manner every day.

Meanwhile, of course, there was
no power shortage in the eastern
sector and the eastern zone and the
RIAS programs were heard normally
in those areas,

i THE MIDST of the excitement
accompanying the beginning of the
blockade RIAS opened its new broad-
casting house which most effectively
told the population of eastern Ger-
many and of Berlin that the Americans
were here to stay. The new studio
building provides eight broadcasting
Studios and adequate facilities for the
technical installations including news
toom and monitoring space.

The acting mayor of Berlin, Mrs.
Louise Schroeder, spoke at the

Rylig
"Ohad

Mr. William F, Heimlich, direc-
tor of RIAS, was one of the first
Americans to enter Berlin after
the war's end. As a lieutenant-
colonel in the original “Operation
Berlin” planning group, he helped
arrange the entry of Americans
into the city to participate in the
Four-Power administration. Betore
the war, Mr. Heimlich was pro-
gram supervisor for Radio Station
WOSU, Columbus, Ohio, and a
graduate of Ohio State University.

dedication of the new building and
pointed out that “RIAS has given new
hope and new heart to the people of
the city.” Franz Neumann, leader of
the Social Democratic Party, stated
publicly that the city government was
saved in recent weeks by the exis-
tence of a free police force in the
western sectors and the free voice of
Radio RIAS,

Thus RIAS today is one of the most
effective voices which Military Govern-
ment has in Germany. It not only
brings the American message to the
people of Berlin and eastern Germany,
it counteracts the propaganda of the
Soviet stations which are the only
German-language stations besides RIAS
which can be heard plainly in that
area,

More than 600 German employees
of the station build the programs
under the direction of four Americans,
That the job is being well done is
clear: in the last public opinion
survey conducted by ISD it was

revealed that Radio RIAS had at any
given time 80 percent of the total
listening audience in the city of Berlin,
an astonishing figure when one con-
siders that it is a new station in
competition with several other trans-
mitters.

Eighty percent of the Berliners, also
said that they preferred RIAS over all
stations; here at last they had a voice
to give them new courage in their
fight against police-state methods and
political pressures,

Weights of Berliners

Reports by nutrition teams indi-
cated that the population of Berlin
entered the period of the Soviet
blockade weighing slightly more than
the comparable population in the
US Zone.

This situation, however, could not
continue because the zone ration
levels have been increased and large
quantities of food are ration free,
while in the western sectors of Berlin
increases have not been made in the
ration and, as a result of the blockade,
very small quantities of vegetables
have appeared in the shops.

Price Reduction Demanded

Throughout the US Zone, credit and
price problems raised by currency
reform brought demands for drastic
reductions in book prices, Publishers’
associations expressed opposition on
the ground that rising costs of paper
and printing would soon necessitate
an upward adjustment if prices were
lowered,

(left) Crowds gather on street corner to hear the latest news over

RIAS' mobile loud-speakers.,

(photo by Brandt, RIAS)

(right) Broadcasting

team covers mass rally at the Reichstag building. (photo by Eschen for RIAS)

--- Page 21 ---
(Continued from Page 6)

Berlin Divided

cessful emasculation of democratic
government by Soviet authorities.

By a weird interpretation of Ar-
ticle 36 of the Berlin constitution the
Russians have held that practically
every act of the city government re-
quires the approval of the Allied
Kommandatura and in the Komman-
datura they have used their veto as
a two-edge sword to accomplish:

(1) The preservation of the care-
fully planned status quo (mainten-
ance of their “agents” in significant
positions, preservation of certain
“front” organizations, maintenance of
the fiction that certain Berlin institu-
tions belong under Soviet Zone con-
trol—notably the University of Berlin
and Radio Berlin).

(2) Denial of fundamental rights of
the city government as, for instance,
election or transfer of officials, hand-
ling of internal administration.

In contrast, the western Allies
endeavored to give the city ad-
ministration a high degree of genuine
self-government. They
stumbled, as for instance:

sometimes

When the American commandant
hastily agreed to order the dismissal
of the head of the Education Depart-
ment, an elected official, without a
hearing and without consideration
that the charge against him (brought
by the Russians) was simply that he
had violated an old Military Govern-
ment order, though in doing so it was
evident he had obeyed a subsequent
order of the Allied Kommandatura.

When in the Control Council the
US representative agreed to make the
election of the mayor subject to a
Soviet veto although denial of this
veto had been (and since has been)
a cornerstone of United States policy.

The deterioration has two spring
boards. One was the failure of the
Moscow Conference in the spring of
1947, the other the failure of the
London Conference in December 1947.
Since these events, the Berlin public

INFORMATION BULLETIN

has witnessed the outbreak of ideo-
logical warfare between the Allies
which has largely taken the form of
slanderous statements in the Soviet-
sponsored German press.

HE SOVIET AUTHORITIES have

been unrelenting in their drive to
place the Soviet Zone—and Berlin—
in the position of having one political
party. They have been successful in
the zone where, by taking over the
CDU (through control of party leader-
ship) and the LDP (through subversion
of party leadership), they have given
total political authority to German
Communists, having previously eli-
minated the SPD.

They failed in Berlin because the
western Allies refused to recognize
the Russian repudiation of the Berlin
CDU and LDP and where the SPD
still enjoys an active political life and
the bulk of public confidence.

There were other minor setbacks for
the USSR. Their Communist-controlled
labor the FDGB, ex-
perienced a revolt within its ranks
and there is now definite split with
an independent labor organization
completely severed from Communist
control.

organization,

While new Communist front organi-
zations have been recognized by the
Allied Kommandatura, notably the
Free German Youth (Freie Deutsche
Jugend, or FDJ) and the Women's
League (Frauenbund) of Germany,
this has been accomplished by the
Russians only at the painful price of
also recognizing democratic organi-
zations in the same fields,

The very existence of a City
Assembly in which independent voices
were constantly raised attacking the
economic and political strangulation
of Berlin (by the USSR) has been a
constant source of irritation to the
Russians,

T HAS BEEN OBVIOUS since the
Control Council meeting on May 2,
1947, that the conflicting views of the
Allies could not be harmonized. At
that meeting the US Military Governor
Stated that the Allies’ gift of a con-

18

stitution to Berlin resembled the Wooden
horse of the Trojans, and that whereas
the Kommandatura had promise a
democratic constitution and the dele.
gation of a measure of Tesponsibility
to the German people, only confusion
and maladministration had resulted,
the city government—an elected body
—having less authority than it hag
when it had been an appointed body,

During this period one of the most
conspicious events was the forced
resignation of the city’s mayor, Dr,
Otto Ostrowski. Elected as a member
of the SPD, he found his city ad.
ministration so frustrated and blocked
that he attempted to enter into a
contract of cooperation with the SED,
When this was discovered he was
denounced by his own party and
forced to resign.

It was a price of accepting the
resignation and ordering the election
of a new mayor that the other Allied
representatives made the agreement
in the Control Council that the election
of a successor would be subject to
veto in the Allied Kommandatura.
Consequently when Ernst Reuter was
elected mayor by an overwhelming
majority, he was denied office by
Soviet veto.

Of the many interpretations and
misinterpretations of Allied Kom-
mandatura orders which reveal the
clash of ideas and techniques between
the Americans and the Russians (and
also reveal a certain amount of
political ineptness on the part of
Soviet authorities who, while trying
to win German approval with propa-
ganda, create violent antagonism by
crushing natural German impulses)
may be mentioned the matter of non-
political organizations those offshoots
of social and economic life that
represent the life of any community.

They include women’s clubs, pr0-
fessional associations, sports organi
zations, debating societies, and the
like. The Allied Kommandatura having
authorized such organizations gene
rally, the Soviet representatives would
agree to authorize practically none
specifically. However, there was a
escape clause in the regulation whic

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
permitted sectoral recognition of
organizations which were not “city-

wide” in character,

It is significant that in the US Sector
approximately 250 such organizations
have been authorized. Practically all
of them were subject of protests by
Soviet authorities that the American
authorities had no right to do so. The
Russians objected to the Free Masons
on the ground that they were political
in character, and to the Boy Scouts
because they were “militaristic.”

In the Soviet Sector, when the last
report was given in the spring of
1948, there had been only seven such
organizations authorized by the Rus-
sians, As simple a matter as this
authorization of the life of a people
to continue with some aspects of
normality was made the focus of
bitter clashes in hours of debate.

NOTHER MATTER revealing fun-

damental differences was the
long debate on the sozialization bill.
This bill was passed by the city
government Feb, 13, 1947. It still was
being debated in the Allied Kom-
mandatura in June 1948, having been
the subject of many hours of heated
discussion by the local government
committee, the deputy commandants
and the commandants.

While US opinion was that sociali-
zation was not indicated for a city
in physical and economic collapse
and that the step could intelligently
be postponed until a peace treaty
and establishment of a German govern-
ment gave free play for intelligent
legislation and implementation, US
authorities nevertheless conceded that
the elected representatives of the
People had a right to enact sociali-
zation measures for Berlin.

But the Soviet representatives at all
levels insisted the bill must be
accepted in toto, as presented to the
Allied Kommandatura. When US,

British and French authorities pointed
out that it made no provision for
foreign owned property, inadequate
provision for compensation, was
legally so confused that it permitted
interested parties to sit in judgment,
and other deficiencies, and offered to
accept the bill subject to correction
of these points, they were accused by
the Russians of “denying the will of
the people.”

HE SPRING of 1948 was politically

distinguished in Berlin by two
events. The first was the approval of
a new provisional constitution by the
City Assembly, which was under dis-
cussion in the Allied Kommandatura
at the time of the Russian withdrawal
from that body—but there was no
chance of agreement. This is a signi-
ficant comment since the possibility of
holding a new election this year, as
required by the present constitution,
may be denied if the Russians
maintain that acceptance of a new
constitution is a prerequisite.

This matter of a new constitution
and elections for Berlin is tied in very
closely with the second event—the
meeting of the so-called People’s
Congress (Volkskonaress) and the
commencement on May 21 of cir-
culation of a petition for “German
unity” in the name of the People’s
Conaress. This petition was outlawed
in the US Sector, as well as in the
French Sector, on the legal basis that
the People’s Congress had never
received quadripartite approval in
Berlin. It also was banned on the
grounds that the People’s Congress
purported to be non-partisan whereas
in fact it was entirely Communist con-
trolled, making the petition a fraud-

US Constabulary troopers and Mil-
itary Police patrol the US Sector
during periods of tension. (left) Con-
stabulary armor car M-8. (center) MP
captain briefs detail on assignment
near Potsdamer Platz. (right) Constab-

ulary jeep patrol.
. (US Army Signal Corps photos)

ulent appeal for a curious kind of

“German unity.” The petition was also
banned in the US Zone.

But in the Soviet Zone, and in Berlin
as well, the petition resulted in a
success, Claiming a total of 13,000,000
signatures. The “success” was not
surprising in view of the fact that
residents of the Soviet Zone had no
option but to sign, and in Berlin the
signatures were collected by a combi-
nation of questionable methods, in-
cluding the disguise of a petition for
better meals, for extermination of
household pests, etc.

The intent of the People’s Congress
petition is more serious than the
fraudulent methods used in its im-
plementation. Since the formation of
the People’s Congress and election of
the Communist activist body (Volks-
rat) it has been plain that they would
be used as the basis for a “people's
government” when the Russians
decided to use purely arbitrary
methods in Berlin and in whatever
part of Germany they could finally
control.

HE EVENT of Sept. 6 in Berlin

were believed by many political
observer to have revealed so clearly
the Russian purpose in connection
with Berlin that while the Soviet
Military Administration won a tem-
porary victory in driving the City
Assembly out of the City Hall, in
actuality it demonstrated the weakness
of its position: a dominance based
entirely upon force, lacking the con-
fidence or good will of the population,
the tragic effect of a pitifully small
minority to impose its will upon more
than three million persons.

At approximately 9 p.m. on Sept. 6,
a force of German policemen, observed
by and apparently acting under orders
of a detachment of Soviet soldiers
commanded by a captain, pushed into
Room 103 in the City Hall of Berlin,

--- Page 23 ---
Panoramic view of the Sept. 9 mass rally in the British Sector, At left is the Russian memorial to its entry
into Berlin, guarded by a solitary Soviet soldier in front of the pedestal and cordoned off by British Military
Police and German police. In the left center are the ruins of the Reichstag building, It was the seat of the

over the objection of the US Army
captain there and forcibly removed
20 Germans, member of western sector
police in plain clothes,

Room 103 is plainly marked “United
States Liaison Office” and is an office
assigned to the US Military Govern-
ment for Berlin. The entry was by
force and over the objection of the
US liaison officer.

Approximately 30 minutes before
the forcible entry, the Soviet liaison
officer had ordered the US liaison
officer to vacate the premises and to
see that all uniformed personnel were
removed from the City Hall in order
to expedite the search for the western
sector German policemen. The same
order was given to the French and
British liaison officers,

The Soviet officer was informed by
the US liaison officer that the former's
order would not be obeyed. Then

INFORMATION BULLETIN

followed the attack on the US liaison
office and seizure of the plainclothes
policemen who were under the pro-
tection of the US liaison office at the
time. The policemen who were seized
were handcuffed and removed from
the premises,

HE FOLLOWING night the liaison
offices of the French, British and
Americans were broken into and
searched. The same night the French
liaison officer was held in a hallway
by German police for four hours
before he was permitted to enter his
office. In the US liaison office,
the US representative was practically
blockaded by the Soviet Sector police.
These incidents were by order of the
Soviet authorities,
This incident followed the third
attempt of the City Assembly to hold
a meeting in the face of disorderly

20

obstruction of a Communist mob, Pi
of the mob were transported to th
scene in Soviet military vehicles,

of the ring leaders have been identifi
as working for the Soviet AG's (Sovie
industrial monopolies) which me
that they were given official pé
mission to “participate.”

The actions of the mob have bt
defended and applauded in the S
licensed press. The mob was |
couraged by not only the apathy
the Soviet Sector German police
under the authority of the SMA
also by the active assistance 0}
SMA controlled police. There
photographic evidence of this.

The facts concerning the col
of the City Assembly meeting, throw
mob action, are well known.
beating and injuries were suffere
at least three Americans and

OcToBER 19, 19

--- Page 24 ---
orn

Gerian parliamentary government before Hitler, It was never fully repaired after the 1933 fire which the
Nazis blamed on the Communists and its walls are still pockmarked from the fighting during the battle of Berlin.

At the right is the Brandenburg Gate.

German working for the US-controlled
tadio station RIAS.

HE PRESENCE of the plainclothes

policemen in the City Hall
Tesulted from attempts by the acting
mayor, Dr. Ferdinand Friedensburg,
to supply some measure of protection
for the City Assembly. Previous
Tequests addressed to the SMA re-
questing that Soviet Sector police be
ordered to protect the meetings of the
assembly had met only with a con-
temptuous reply from Maj. Gen, A, G.
Kotikov, commander of the Soviet
garrison and commandant of the
Soviet Sector of Berlin.
L With reference to the Sept. 6 meet-
ing, Dr. Friedensburg had authorized
Certain employees of the Magistrat to
guard the gates of the building and
the doors of the assembly and at
his Tequest approximately 50 German

OCTOBER 19, 1948

policemen from the western sectors
had volunteered to go to the City
Hall and assist in maintaining order
within the building.

After the mob had crashed the gates
and broken windows, to effect an
entrance—with more than 150 Soviet
Sector police under the command of
the Protection Police Chief Wagner
either looking on or assisting the
mob—most of the western sector
plainclothes policemen sought refuge
in the various offices of the US, British
and French liaison suites at the City
Hall. At the request of Dr. Friedens-
burg and also as a natural impulse
of the various liaison officers, the men
were permitted to remain in the
“safety” of the Allied liaison offices.

Wagner, the Soviet police com-
mander, plainly stated that his men
were in the building to arrest persons

21

(Photo by Mr. G, M, Jones, Jr, O/SG, OMGUS., Reprint Forbidden)

who were illegally on the premises.
When asked if he meant the Com-
munist mob which had broken in, he
replied that he did not mean them,
that they represented the voice of
the people and had a right to be in
the building.

The SMA was aware of the entire
proceeding and, at the end, openly
took charge of it. A detachment of
Soviet troops, armed with tommy
guns, appeared. A Soviet officer and
half a dozen soldiers bearing tommy
guns were present when the attack
was madejon the US liaison office.

US, French and British Military
Governments were insulted and treated
with contempt in general, and two
US officers were insulted and abused
in particular. The plainclothes police-
men who were seized were manacled
and carried away over the protest of
the US, British and French repre-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
sentatives of their respective Military
Governments.

The next night the remaining 26
policemen were “released,” Brig. Gen.
Jean Ganeval, commanding general of
the French Military Government of
Berlin, having obtained a personal
guarantee from General Kotikov that
the men would not be molested or
restrained. The French dispatched
trucks to take them away from the
City Hall, but in a matter of minutes
after leaving the building Soviet
Sector police arrested the entire 26.

TTENDING the protest meeting

before the old Reichstag on
Sept. 9 was a crowd at 250,000. It was
amass meeting of workers, men and
women who felt outraged and angry
and determined to make their voice
heard. The piling up of the currency
situation, the Soviet attempt to starve
the city into submission, the Com-
munist attempts to take over the city
government, and the realization that
the imposition of Soviet will upon
Berlin was no longer a matter of
conjecture but of progressive fact, had
driven the people of the city to the
breaking point.

The mass meeting was addressed by
political leaders of the non-communist
parties, by city officials and by labor
leaders. Excerpts from the speeches
follow:

Franz Neumann, leader of the SPD
Berlin: “The victims of totalitarianism,
between 1933 and 1948, must be
remembered. They gave their lives

for freedom. The concentration camps
have remained the same only today
the hammer and sickle flies over them
instead of the swastika. Berlin must
continue the battle for freedom and
democracy. In the battle we need the
assistance of all countries—Berlin
calls to the world!”

Dr. Ferdinand Friedensburg, first
deputy mayor and at the time acting
mayor of Berlin: “As long as humanly
possible the Berlin administration must
stay at its post in Parochialstrasse
(site of the City Hall in the Soviet
Sector), where they had been placed
by the people of Berlin. We must
fight a battle for the whole people of
Berlin, including the Soviet Sector.”

Dr. Otto Suhr, president of the City
Assembly: “The Communists now use
force against us, having failed in
everything else, but they would not
dare use force if the Russians were
not in back of the attacks. General
Kotikov has not answered my letter
requesting a boundary around the
City Hall but today Berlin will give
him an answer—we say to him that
there no longer is any freedom what-
ever in the Soviet Sector of Berlin.”

Emst Reuter, head of the city's
Traffic Utilities Undertakings Depart-
ment and originally elected the city's
mayor but barred by the Soviet veto
from taking office:

“Berlin must be freed from the
tyranny of the East Sector. And from
such actions as the arrest of plain-
clothes policemen stationed in the City

Two Different Demonstrations—(left) Crowd waits in front of the ACA
building on Sept. 9 as Franz Neumann delivers protest notes to the
four military governors. (right) Communist-led crowd assembles for

so-called “spontaneous” demonstration at

the Berlin City Hall on

Aug. 26. Note Soviet-issued plate on truck bringing demonstrators to
(US Army Signal Corps photos)

assembling place,

Hall. They were promised freedo
and immunity—but before the coc
had thrice crowed the Russian Gener;
Kotikov had broken his word of honor,

“The SED needs a new symbol
add to their clasped hands—handcuft
the handcuffs with which the Germa
were led from the City Hall,
cuffs is a proper symbol for tho
who sell their people for 30 pieces
silver to a foreign power.

“Diplomats and generals now a
discussing the fate of Berlin. N
that there is a pause in the talks
would be well if they could hear
voice of the people of Berlin. We t
them that we do not want to be
subject of bartering; they
barter and sell us with comprom:

Neumann: “Here is a_ paper,
memorandum, it is the story of fl
oppression of the East Zone (Sovie
I am going to take it to the secre
at the Allied Control so it may |
the proper persons. Let all
believe in solidarity follow me.”

IOLLOWING the meeting, Ne

mann took four folders, ©}
addressed to each of the milita
governors, to the Allied Control Counci
building in the US Sector. He ¥
followed by thousands of persons fro m
the crowd. The folders contained
covering letter, signed by the leat
of the democratic parties, and a
memorandum outlining alleged
of terror and totalitarian bruta
inflicted upon the German people
the Russians and by the SED.

At the ACA grounds, the cro}
surged within the gates and up to the
doors of the building but at Neumant

--- Page 26 ---
request they moved back to the street.
Some time later Neumann came out
of the grounds and told the thousands
still waiting that he delivered the
folders and had been promised they
would be forwarded to the military
governors.

N THE MEANTIME at the Branden-
burg Gate, on the British-Soviet
Sectors boundary near the Reichstag
building, Russian soldiers in a jeep
were sneered at by many in the crowd,
and in retaliation fired a volley.
Another jeep containing Soviet sol-
diers was attacked by the crowd which
hurled bricks and rubble, breaking
the windshield. British military police
rescued the Soviet soldiers and main-
tained a cordon around the nearby
huge Soviet memorial, commemorating
the Red Army's capture of Berlin.

Soviet Sector police fired on the
crowd and a youth of the SPD Falcons
(youth organization) was shot and
killed. Another youth climbed to the
top of the Brandenburg Gate and tore
down the Communist banner which
was trampled under foot and burned
by the infuriated crowd.

Reinforced Soviet Sector police,
backed by a small detail of Soviet
soldiers (who fired in the air) returned
to the gate and were met by a storm
of bricks and other missles. They
fired on the people, wounding at least
seven or eight—estimates run as
high as 20, The crowd then dis-
persed,

Rally of the Communistic trade union

federation on May 1 in
garten. Soviet Sector,

the Lust-
(DENA-Bild)

It it evident that the symbolism of
Berlin is all important to the Russians,
that if they are threatened with an
ideological defeat, they may resort to
any means to consolidate their grip
on the city and on the East Zone,

Previous Articles Published in Information Bulletin

For background material and allied
subjects dealing with Louis Glaser's
“Berlin Divided” and the US White
Paper “The Berlin Crisis" in this issue,
the following articles in previous
issues of the Information Bulletin are
cited:

The Potsdam Conference Statement (text of
Potsdam Agreement), No. 3, Aug. 11, 1945.
gre Allied Control Council, No. 13, Oct. 20,
Control Council Laws Nos. 1 & 2, No. 13,

Oct. 20, 1945.

sentol Council Legislation, No. 15,

The US Economic Policy in Germany, No. 24,
Jan. 12, 1946,

Interzonal Economic Unity Proposal Presented
by US, No. 52, July 29, 1946.

Central German’ Agencies (series of eight in-
stallments giving US proposal), Nos. 54 to
61, Aug. 12 to Sept. 30, 1946.
he Stuttgart Address (by James F. Byes,
BS , secretary of state), No, 59, Sept. 16,

Nov. 3,

Bat Alu Barges Reach Berlin, No. 61, Sept.
Berlin Elections (preview by Col.
Glaser), No. 62, Oct. 7, 1946.
erlin Elections (summary of results), No. 65,
Oct. 28, 1946.
e German Political Scene (by Richard M.
Scammon), No. 67, Nov. 11, 1946.

Louis

OCTOBER 19, 1948

Evaluation of the German Vote (by Hans A.
Kallmann), No. 77, Jan. 27, 1947.

Four-Power Government (Military Government
series), No, 78, Feb, 3, 1947.

Bizonal Policy Explained (statement at ACA
meeting), No. 83, March 10, 1947.

Moscow Conference (review by George C.
Marshall, US secretary of state), No. 92,
May 12, 1947,

US Proposal for Europe to Help Self (text of
Harvard address by Secretary Marshall),
No. 99, June 30. 1947.

US Policy in Germany (text of State-War-
Navy: Departments’ directive), No. 10, July
21, 1947,

Freedom vs. Totalitarianism (by Dr. Edward
Litchfield), No. 120, Nov. 24, 1947.
Book Distribution Halted, No. 121,

1947,

Free Press in Germany (by Col. G. E, Textor),
No, 122, Dec. 8, 1947.

Economic Situation in Occupied Germany (Part
4—Soviet Zone), No. 123, Dec. 15, 1947.

Political Parties (by Richard M. Scammon),
No. 125, Dec. 29, 1947.

London Cnoference (by John Elliott), No. 127,
Jan, 27, 1946.

Political Youth in Berlin (by William F, Heim-
lich), No. 128, Feb. 10, 1948,

The Marshall Plan and Western Germany,
No. 129, Feb. 24, 1948.

German Constitutions, No. 130, March 9, 1948.

Czechoslovakia—A Cause for Hope (by Richard
M. Scammon), No. 131, March 23, 1948.

Political Parties, No. 132, April 6, 1948.

Political Terrorism in Berlin, No. 133, April 20,
1948.

Dec. 1,

23

Bizonia Halts People's Congress, No. 134,
May 4, 1948.

US Blames Soviets for ACC Impasse, No. 134,
May 4, 1948.

Quadripartite
May 18, 1948.

Soviet Prophecies on ERP Backfire, No. 136,
June 1, 1948.

Founding of the SED, No. 136, June 1, 1948.

Revolution of 1848 (by John Elliott), No. 136,
June 1, 1948,

Berlin's Trade Union Fight (by Albert H. Ber-
man), No. 137, June 15, 1948,

Currency Reform (announcement), No. 138,
June 29, 1948.

Meaning of Six-Power Agreement for Ger-
many (by John Elliott), No. 138, June 29,
1948.

OMGUS Rejects Soviet Charges (by Col. Frank
L. Howley), No. 139, July 13, 1948.

Mail out of Berlin (by Richard J. Elwood),
No. 140, July 27, 1948.

The Real Issue in Berlin Crisis (by Maj. Gen.
William J. Donovan), No. 140, July 27, 1948,

US Note Protests Berlin Blockade (text), No.
140, July 27, 1948. -

Plan Submitted for Federal Setup, No. 140,
July 27, 1948.

Breakup of the Allied Kommandatura, No. 142,
Aug. 24, 1948,

Soviet Blockade Fails to Subjugate Berlin (by
Col. Frank L. Howley), No. 143, Sept. 7, 1948.

Constitution-Making at Bonn (by John Elliott),
No. 144, Sept. 21, 1948.

Impact of Currency Reform (resume), No. 144,
Sept. 21, 1948.

Rupture in Berlin, No. 135,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---


--- Page 28 ---
GROSSER
MUGGEL SEE

--- Page 29 ---
Army Lends Potatoes—In a move to
get quantities of dehydrated potatoes
in a hurry for shipment by the airlift
to Berlin, the EUCOM Quartermaster
agreed to lend the Berlin Magistrat
1,000,000 pounds of dehydrated pota-
toes from US Army stocks. But the
German economy is to pay back in
spring potatoes next March and April.
Bipartite Food and Agriculture offi-
cials say that the airlift can transport
approximately eight times as much in
caloric value in dehydrated as in
fresh potatoes in the same number of
planes.

European Recovery Program—Food
purchases totaling $5,690,000 had been
delivered by the end of September in
the Bizonal Area under the third
quarterly period of the 1948 Bizonal
Recovery Program, according to the
ERP Secretariat of BICO. Of the
$139,416,000 total of ECA aid re-
quested by the Bizone for the three
month period July through September,
contracts have either been concluded
or were in process of negotiation for
the ECA approved purchase of
$98,059,000 of critical food or in-
dustrial items, in addition to the more
than $5,500,000 worth of foods which
have been delivered. Freight charges
account for $ 12,500,000 of the remain-
ning belance awaiting ECA approval.
School Art for President—Dr. Hans
Ehard, minister-president of Bavaria,
presented Mr. Murray D. Van Wago-
ner, director of OMG Bavaria, a port-
folio of paintings to be given to Pre-
sident Truman. The 50 paintings were
selected from more than 800,000 done
by school children throughout Bavaria
in a contest held to show their ap-
preciation for the American-sponsored
school feeding program. The school
feeding program, sponsored by Mili-
tary Government was begun in Bava-
ria in April, 1947, growing until
820,000 children received a 350 calorie
meal five days a week.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ACTIV ELE

Coal for Berlin—A special issue of
110 pounds of coal is being furnished
every western sector family having
two or more children along with its
October food ration .. . 30,000 Esbit
stoves and 400,000 packets of solid
fuel have been purchased from a
Frankfurt firm for western sector
families. They are to be taken to
Berlin by the airlift and distributed
by the City Council ... The millionth
bag of coal taken into Berlin by the
airlift arrived Sept. 20 from Fassberg
airfield in the British Zone.
International Agreements — German
authorities were advised by the Bi-
partite Board that negotiations with
sovereign countries should not be
conducted by German state govern-
ments. This advice followed the
board's ratification of an agreement,
negotiated by the Bavarian govern-
ment, over diversion of waters on
tivers bordering Bavaria and Austria...
The Bipartite Board also approved
conditionally the bizonal ordinance to
accure claims arising out of equali-
zation-of-burdens legislation.
Agricultural Extension Started —A
ten-man board has been designated
by Minister-President Reinhold Maier
to administer the new agricultural
extension service in Wuerttemberg-
Baden. Its president, elected by the
board, is Dr. Adolf Muenzinger of
Hohenheim Agricultural College.
Trade Unions—Georg Reuter, gene-
ral secretary of the Bavarian Trade
Union Federation, and Erich Buehrig,
executive board member of the British
Zone Metal Union, were named to
head respectively the departments for
organizational matters and labor law
of the Bizonal Trade Union Secre-
tariat... The executive committee and
general council of the Trade Union
Federation in the British Zone have
resolved to take no further part in
interzonal trade union conferences as
previously conducted, thus emphasi-

26

zing the impossibility of continuing
cooperation with the representatives
of the trade unions in the Soviet
Zone... A temporary agreement has
been concluded for the shoe industry,
providing for a 12.5 percent increase —
in time and piece rate wages. a
Cash Gifts from United States—
Funds, payable in dollars, for chari-
table, personal and family purposes
may be sent in any amounts from th
United States to persons residing in —
the British, US and French Zones, The
remittances are to be paid through —
the Bank of German States (Ban
Deutscher Laender) at Frankfurt in
Deutsche marks at the 30-cent rate,
after deduction of small German ser-—
vice charges. No cash is to be sent
to Germany, but all dollar funds to
cover the remittances are to be depo-
sited at the Federal Reserve Bank at
New York to the account of the Bank |
of German States. ;
Youth Faces New Court—The fii
major trial to come before the re-
cently civilianized MG Court system
is the case of Johannes Wilfred
Helm, 17-year-old German, charget
with the murder of a German police
man and an American criminal-
vestigation agent. The trial is sd
duled for Oct. 19 in Munich. J
Judge William Clark is to pres
with Mr. Don Noggle and Mr. Jami
Greenhill as prosecutors. Helms
accused of slaying the two men in an
automobile May 10 while being
turned from Wiesbaden to Munich
another charge.

Miscellaneous Items — Hesse’s
ployment curve, on the decline s
currency reform, suddenly took
upward swing in mid-September. Als¢
job-openings increased... Fran kfur
became the first city in the US Zo
to have three daily newspaper

is the publisher...

--- Page 30 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

ov- GERMAN PRES

UN Conference at Paris Viewed with Gloom

Editorials of the western German
press were devoted in late September
almost entirely to the third plenary
session of the United Nations assembly
at Paris, considered to be decisive for
a lasting peace.

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten wrote
that “the air at Paris is certainly
cleaner and more full of-hope for a
settlement of the differences than at
Moscow.” The paper contended that
Russia “must stop its expansion or it
must face a united world working
against her.”

The same warnings to Russia was
given by the British-sponsored Die
Welt at Hamburg. “However, the
struggle over Berlin and a reform of
the United Nations may develop,”
the paper claimed. “The military po-
tential of the western world, which is
presently being strengthened, is the
only weighty reality that can induce
the Kremlin to a revision of its pol-
icies. It es the only guarantee for the
maintenance of peace.”

Karlsruhe’s Badische Neueste Nach-
tichten asked whether “the world has
finally arrived at the point where it
will no longer endure the Soviet pol-
icy of irresponsibility against the
Justified longing of countless millions
for peace,” while the Sueddeutsche
Allgemeine at Pforzheim emphasized
“that the lives of millions are at stake,
because Russia does not stop playing
With the fire.”

However, the Mittelbayerische Zei-
tung (Regensburg) took a pessimistic
view of the UN Congress in Paris:
“At most one may expect the display
of new propaganda tricks by the
Kremlin ... magnificent examples of
dialectic until the day ... when the
theme Berlin is introduced .... This
may well result in a Soviet threat to
Withdraw from UN .... Russia’s send-
ing Vishinsky rather than Molotow to
Paris shows considerable lack of
Interest in the meeting ....

OCTOBER 19, 1948

“We believe that Moscow is merely
waiting for a propitious moment to
liquidate its participation in what has
become an uncomfortable institution.
Hitler set a precedent in 1933 in the
League of Nations... Only if the
West takes advantage of its pre-
ponderance of power and threatens
Russia with war may it still be
possible to force the Soviets into
cooperation for peace.”

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung also
viewed the Paris UN proceedings in
a pessimistic light: “Germany will
only be invisibly present among the
delegates, but its shadow on the de-
liberations will be heavy .... The
outlook is most gloomy ... The dis-
armament committee had to forsake
its labors; in the end the Western re-
presentatives had to realize that peace
could only be secured through rearma-
ment. There is therefore a com-
prehensible fear the United Nations
may go the way of the League of
Nations ...

“The decision will once again be
up to the four great powers, who will
be faced with the same fundamental
problem that arises whenever they
meet—that is, the division of the
world. The United Nations is the last
safety fuse in the electric field of
power between East and West. It
cannot compel any great power to
peace, but it has a certain moral force.
That has been its only usefulness to
the nations up to now.”

The Fraenkische Landeszeitung
(Ansbach) saw little chance for a
successful conclusion to UN de-
liberations unless Russia can be made
to see the futility of its dreams of
world conquest: “Today's European
drama lies in the fact that two civili-
zations, two ways of life, face one
another without an intermediate
power, such as Germany, to act as a
buffer .... Agreement in Paris is
hardly to be expected .... War will
only be conquered when all the

27

nations share a common will that it
be abolished.”

Youth’s Sentences Protested

The 25-year prison sentences (sub-
sequently reduced) imposed on five
German youths by Soviet military
authorities in connection with the
Sept. 9 disturbance at Brandenburg
Gate, Berlin, aroused most editors of
the US-licensed press in Germany,

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
said: “The cold, sarcastic voice of
Freisler (dreaded chief justice of the
Nazi People’s Court) has hardly died
away before all those cruel memories
are being revived by a sentence of
the Russian tribunal in Berlin...
Moscow is supposed to smile and
Berlin to tremble. Does it tremble?
According to reports a tremor is felt
not only in Berlin, but through all
Germany. Instead of fear, however,
it expresses indignation.... This is
the total denial of all those consti-
tutional rights for which we waited
12 long years..."

The Stuttgarter
manded action:

"The world regards the sentences
... With horror and contempt... In
reality they represent the murder of
youth according to the accursed
system of Dachau, Sachsenhausen and
Auschwitz... The Berlin judgment
illustrates an attitude that makes
one’s blood run cold... It should
make clear to the political world
that henceforth necessary decisions
must be made without consulting
Russia. Nations which exclude them-
selves from efforts for peace and
humanitarianism must be completely
isolated. They must sooner or later
be outlawed. Their diplomatic and
trade emissaries will have to be
expelled; that is inevitable..."

The Neue Presse (Coburg) said:
“Anybody who feels and _ thinks
democratically must regard this kind
of justice as barbaric. But it is also
grist for the mills of nationalists and
warmongers. We don't want to be
identified with them. The warmongers

Nachrichten de-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
of other days and-the Nazi gangsters
have no right to get excited about
things which stem from their school.
We, however, who have always
rebelled against the inhumanity of
Nazism, have the right and the duty
to... point out that all that happens
in the Soviet Zone today... represents
a neo-fascism of the most inhumane
kind; it differs from its predecessor
only in emblems...”

Views on West-East Strife

Commenting on the current Western
Powers—Soviet strife, the Fuldaer
Volkszeitung said: “The latest events
on the world stage make it certain
that decisive developments are taking
place these days. The worried
question: ‘Is there going to be war
(and when)?’... overshadows the
question whether there might possibly
by peace, There are many signs that
we are nearing a showdown and that
humanity approaches what (the late
President) Roosevelt called ‘a rendez-
vous with destiny.' Diplomacy has
not too much time left for its work;
the period of transition is drawing to
a close.”

The Schwaebische Post (Aalen)
believed that the Russians have
played with the Western Allies in the
Moscow negotiations and that taking
the Berlin impasse to the United Na-
tions won't help either:

“What will happen in Berlin, mean-
while? The city is sinking ever deeper
into the abyss. The food supply is
assured, thanks to the air corridor.
But what about fuel for the winter,
what about currency, what about
unemployment? The Berliners will
share the fate of the five convicted
demonstrators. Even though the whole
world protests against such methods,
the Russian grip on Berlin will not
be relaxed until free democratic life
is strangled and they have become
masters of a living corpse.”

Comments on Bernadotte

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
commented on the assassination of
Count Folke Bernadotte, UN mediator,
in Jerusalem:

“A few days before his sudden end
a book was published in Stockholm
with the title: ‘In Place of Arms.’
Folke Bernadotte, who has now been

INFORMATION BULLETIN

silenced forever, will be able through
this book to continue to talk to us
of his hope that the insanity of a
new war can be avoided...".

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) saw “volcanic powers” behind
Bernadotte’s assassination:

“He was hated by nationalists on
both sides because he was resolved
to ruin their business, which is war...
If it is true that the assassins were
members of a Jewish organization,
then it is an indication of the dangers
which confront the Jewish state from
... Jewish fascism... The world has
become a volcano in the last 35 years,
and resolutions and diplomatic threats
no longer suffice. May the UN states
++. take the lesson to heart.”

German Workers Criticized

In the Muenchner Merkur (Munich),
R. Friesinger, a German Catholic labor
leader, who has frequently visited MG
offices, reported that he was treated
by US personnel “with promptness
and distinction,” then added:

“T was disgusted, on the other hand,
by the treatment I received from
minor German employees. In (one
office in Munich,) an elderly (German)
gentleman with horn-rimmed glasses
provides information. He shouts at the
people who make inquiries like the
worst ‘Spiess’ (first sergeant) at the
rookies in a barracks yard. He permits
no counter-questions. His bellowing
divides the stream of people...

“But this is no isolated case, [
talked to a number of other German
employees in various US offices, They
are ill-humored and bureaucratic ang
threaten to throw one out of the
office. On the other hand, they show
extreme subservience to the least.
important American typist...

“Do these German employees imagine
that the Americans are impressed by
such a nattitude? After all, who
pays the salaries of the (German)
employees of Military Government?
Isn't it their own people who have
to bear the costs of occupation?”

German Writer Contrasts Greetings

In his second article on the US trip
of 15 German journalists, Heinrich
Kierzek reported in the Fuldaer Volks-
zeitung on an incident at the airfield
in Amsterdam, while the journalists
were conversing in German:

“When they were called to take
their seats in the plane a shrill, female
voice cried: ‘The damned Nazis go
first. They must, of course, get the
best seats.’ Such things are under-
standable when one remembers Hit-
ler's invasion into peaceful Holland,
the mass murder of Rotterdam, exe-
cution of numerous Dutch patriots...
Should we be angry because the
Dutch have not forgotten the Nazi
misdeeds as quickly as we in Ger-
many, where today a man like Schacht
can be exonerated?”

Kierzek contrasted Dutch hostility
with US friendliness, where for in-
stance Columbia University has
engaged German-speaking waiters to
serve the visiting journalists. Of
New York he said:

“Surprisingly enough, it was not the
skyscrapers which made the deepest

28

impression. We had gained a general
idea of it already through photos and
films. Much more exciting was New
York's traffic, its indescribable vo-
lume and speed...

“Still more confusing are the neon
signs which in the evening make of
the monster city a sea of glittering
red, green, yellow and blue light with
all kinds of ingenious effects...

“Even the churches share in this
kind of publicity. A gigantic running
sign on Broadway proclaims, for in-
stance: ‘Death is the reward of sin,
but God promises eternal life through
our Lord Jesus Christ’...

“We stop in front of a delicatessen
on Broadway. In the shop-window
are all kinds of liquor, hams, and
salamis weighing 10 pounds. The shop
is open late at night, but the sales
personnel stand idly by. Instead,
people stream into the movie next
door and pay 85 cents for the cheapest
seats. Such superabundance of food
once existed in our own country, too
A very long time ago...”

OCTOBER 19, 194

--- Page 32 ---
(left) View of the recently reconstructed Leipheim Bridge, spanning the Danube River near Ulm on the Munich-
Stultgart highway, (right) Mr. Charles M. LaFollette, OMGWB director, and Mr, Murray D. Van Wagoner,
OMGB director, greet shortly before the cutting of the tape opening the bridge to public traffic.

Rebuilt Bridge at Ulm Dedicated

IHE REBUILDING of the moral

bridges between states and
nations was stressed by the Military
Government directors of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and Bavaria in speeches
at the dedication Sept. 15 of the new
superhighway bridge across the
Danube River near Ulm.

The 1,200-foot long span, 36 feet
wide, known as the Leipheim Bridge,
teplaced the double-road structure
destroyed by the retreating German
army in April 1945, Reconstruction
Started the following August. Its
Opening ended a major detour on the
Superhighway (Autobahn) between
Stuttgart and Munich.

The span was consecrated in an
impressive Catholic ceremony con-
ducted by Bishop Franz Eberle of
Augsburg, followed by brief dedi-
Cation ceremonies held by Deacon
Schiep] representing the Evangelical
church and Dr. Aaron Chrenstein
Tepresenting the Jewish faith.

Following the religious ceremonies,
Mr, Murray D, Van Wagoner, state
director of OMG Bavaria, and Mr.
Charles M, LaFollette, state director

SCTOBER 19, 1948

of OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, offered
congratulatory messages to the people
responsible for the rebuilding of the
bridge.

In his address director Mr. Van
Wagoner said: “It is important that
so many bridges throughout Germany
and Europe are being reconstructed
once again. I mean not only bridges
of concrete and steel such as this
one, but bridges of ideas and ideals
as well.”

“At Bonn, today,” he continued, “a
group of political engineers repre-
senting all the states of western Ger-
many, are at work on a very special
kind of bridge. When this span is
completed, it will link all those states
in a government of freedom and co-
operation. The bridge builders at
Bonn are constructing a new con-
stitution which must require the union
of all German states in a common
effort towards recovery, while allow-
ing them the state rights which will
guarantee the greatest freedom for
the individual.

“The drafters of our American
Constitution faced the same problem

29

(photos by L. S, Partegas for PIO OMGB)

in 1787, They were successful in con-
structing a national charter which has
withstood the test of time. I am
convinced the men at Bonn can be
just as successful.”

In his speech Director LaFollette
said: “Humanitarians such as Goethe
in Germany and Lincoln in the United
States recognized that the possibilities
of war would virtually disappear if
people had the opportunity to know
and understand each other,

“Through the years planks of
bridges of mutual understanding were
carefully put into place... exchange
scholarships, encouragement of inter-
national tourists, international youth
groups; free exchange of information,
and other similar efforts,

“Bridges of understanding between
Germany and the outside world were
blown up by Hitler in 1933, One of
our tasks during these critical days
is to rebuild, those shattered moral
bridges, as well as the physical
bridges, such as this one today.”

At the conclusion of the speeches
Dr. Willi Ankermueller, Bavarian
minister of interior, opened the bridge
to the convoy of official cars waiting
to cross.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Personnel Changes Announced

Mr, Samuel Kramer, consultant to
the director of the Legal Division,
OMGUS, has been named legal
counsel to the Committee on Tripar-
tite Military Government Organization,
US Element, CINCEUR (see Informa-
tion Bulletin, No. 139, July 13, 1948).

Mr. F, C. Kempner, who has been
special assistant to the economics
adviser, OMGUS, has been appointed
special assistant to the director gene-
ral, JEIA.

Dr. C. H. Hammer, formerly with
the Food Production Branch, BICO,
has been named special adviser to the
chief of the Food, Agriculture and
Forestry Group, BICO, on agricultural
research education and extension
work,

Mr. Mortimer Kollender was pro-
moted to chief of the Administration
of Justice Branch, Legal Division,
OMGUS, succeeding Mr. Charles H.
Kraus, who returned to the United
States, Mr. Kollender was formerly
chief of the Ministry Section and
deputy chief of the Administration of
Justice Branch.

Mr. P. G. Barter was transferred
from chief of the Food Planning and
Statistics Branch, BICO, to head the
Agriculture Committee of the Organi-
zation for European Economic Coope-
ration in Paris,

Mr. B. A, Cash-Reed, formerly chief
of the Inspectorate Branch BICO, was
named to succeed Dr. Barter as chief
of the BICO branch.

Mr. Thomas F. Sullivan, former
assistant chief of police of Hartford,
Conn., has been appointed police in-
spector and investigator for OMG
Hesse.

Mr. David B. Bernstein, veteran
MG judge and head of the legal
departments in Kassel and Frankfurt,
has ended four years of service with
Military Government to return to
the United States. He was succeeded
by Mr. Fred J. Cohen, senior legal
officer for Darmstadt.

Mr. H. J. Gilman, relinquished his
posts as deputy chief of the Commerce
& Industry Group, BICO, and chief of
the Commerce & Industry Elements,
CCG(BE), in the British Zone, to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Leroy Vogel, on leave as professor of
modern European history at Centenary
College, was appointed deputy chief
of the Education and Cultural Affairs
Division, OMG Hesse, (OMGH PIO photo)

return to private business in the
United Kingdom. He was succeeded
by Mr. E. V. Deldy.

Dr. Omar Pancoast became ECA
special adviser in addition to his
duties as OMGUS-BICO liaison officer
of the Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Group, BICO.

Mr. Louis J. Simonich, chief of the
Wuerttemberg-Baden field office of
the Bipartite Communications Group,
returned to the United States after
four and a half years of military and
civilian service in Europe.

Mr. John S. Meadows, chief of the
Bavarian field office of the Bipartite
Communications Group, succeeded
Mr. Simonich in Stuttgart.

Mr. J. C. Lynn, chief of the Food
Supply Branch, BICO, returned to the
United States to become special
assistant to the president of the
American Farm Bureau Federation.

Mr. Leland E. Spencer resumed his
duties as chief of the Bipartite Com-
merce and Industry Group, BICO,
after a two-month visit to the United
States.

Representatives of the Bipartite
Food, Agriculture and Forestry Group,

30

BICO, at the recent four-day mi
of world food officials in G
Switzerland, were Mr. G. E, Hj
Mr. H. A. Taster and Mr. J, C,
Three German food officials ace
panied them.

Dr. Karl Loewenstein, prewar
fessor at the University of Mi
and now professor of Political scie
at Amherst College, completed a
month lecture tour in southern G
many, speaking on governme
and constitutional topics at US
mation Centers. He was an advise
the Legal Division, OMGUS, in
and 1946,

Four civilian consultants to
surgeon general of the US
toured army installations and h
tals in the European Command,
were Dr. David Preswick
Dr. Vernon Lewis Hart, Dr. L
Elmer Daniels and Dr. John Ve
Ambler.

A party of American Medical A:
ciation officials, headed by its pres
ident, Dr. Roscoe Sensenic, confere
with MG public health officials on @
tour of the US Zone. Others in th
party were Dr. Elmer L. Hende
Dr. John Kline and Dr. Craight
Barker. B

The Rev. Delmar L. Dyreson, ai
sociate director of the General Co
mission on Army and Navy Cl
lains, toured EUCOM  installati
talking with chaplains and troops. H
is editor of “The Chaplain” and “T
Link" magazines.

Prof. Herta Kraus of Bryn
College and Dr. Kaete Radtke
Catholic College, St. Louis,
guests of the first postwar concla’
German social workers recentl}
Wiesbaden.

tish physician of Great
Street Children’s Hospital in
advised German doctors in the
and US Sectors of Berlin on th
of the new drug, streptomycin, —

Newspaper Competition

The state publisher associatit
the US Zone have agreed to ™
former geographical restrictions
opening all areas of the zone to
petition from all zonal newspaP

OCTOBER 19; *

--- Page 34 ---
INDUSTRY CONTINUES TO RISE IN AUGUST

NDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY in the Bi-

zonal Area is rising towards the
1936 level. The continued upward rise
is shown by the new index of the
volume of industrial production for
the Bizonal Area that has been con:
structed by the German Bizonal De-
partment of Economics at the request

of, and in cooperation with Military ,

Government. The new index, which in
August became official for the Bizonal
Area, is constructed on a truly bizonal
basis.

The provisional index, used since
December 1947, was a combination of
the existing indexes for the US and
British Zones of Occupation. While
these bizonal indexes were not
strictly comparable, the methods used
in constructing them were similar
enough to permit their combination
to secure a provisional index which
was used pending the construction of
the new index from data on a bizonal
basis.

Preliminary figures for August
showed that the new index stood at
67 percent of 1936, as compared with
66 for the old index. Both indexes
indicated an increase of eight percent
over July, for which the revised index
showed 62 and the old index 61 (re-
vised). On the average for the year
August 1947—July 1948, the new
index was 4.6 percent higher than
the old.

The general method used in con-
structing the new index is the same
as that previously used for both zonal
indexes. Production of each important
item, expressed in quantity units, in
the current month is compared with
the monthly average production of
the same item in 1936.

The items are arranged in 19 in-
dustry groups for the most part in
accordance with the established Ger-
man industrial classification. Indexes
for the groups are made by combin-
ing the items according to the relative
importance of their 1936 production
in the groups. The industry groups
are weighted together on the basis
of value added by manufacture in
each group in 1936.

For a few groups, production data
for August were not available, but
these groups have been estimated on
the basis of value of production de-
flated for price changes, employment
adjusted for changes in labor effi-
cience, and consumption of iron and
steel in the industry.

OTH THE NEW and old indexes

included mining and production of
electricity and gas but excluded con-
struction (other than iron and steel
construction) and food processing,
for which no adequate data were
available. With the above exclusions,
virtually every industry group is re-

Indexes of Volume of Industrial Production
(excluding food processing and construction)
(Not adjusted for seasonal variations)
100 represents 1936 average
1946 1947 1948
revised old revised old revised old
Monthly Average 34 (33) 40 (38)
January 27 (26) 31 (29) 47 (44)
February 28 27) 29 (28) 48 (45)
March 31 (30) 34 (33) 51 (48)
April 31 (30) 39 (37) 54 (50)
May 34 (32) AL (39) 48 (46)
June 34 (33) ryt (39) 52 (51)
July 38 (36) 42 (42) 62 (61)
August 39 (ey) 42 (42) 67° (66) *
September 39 (37) 43 (42)
October 40 (38) 46 (43)
November 39 (38) 45 (44)
December 33 (32) 45 (43)
* Preliminary

OCTOBER 19, 1948

31

presented in the new index either by
production of important individual
items or by a substitute series. The
revised index also incorporated nu-
merous corrections and revisions in
base-period figures and current pro-
duction data.

For the purposes of comparison,
the two series are shown (in the ad-
joining table) by month for the period
January 1946 to August 1948 for the
Bizonal Area.

Press Licensing to End

US Military Government is pre-
paring to relinquish its licensing
powers in the field of newspapers,
books, periodicals and other publica-
tions, Col. G. E. Tector, director of In-
formation Services Division, OMGUS
announced, The present MG licensing
system will be terminated as soon as
German legislators have enacted laws
which will adequately protect freedom
of the press in the US Zone of
Germany.

With the ending of MG licensing,
it is not intended that a German li-
censing system be inaugurated. It
will then be possible for individuals
or groups, such as political parties,
labor unions, religious organizations
or educational bodies to enter the
publishing field without the necessity
of obtaining a special license to pub-
lish. Only such requirements as are
made of other businesses will be re-
quired of publishers in the future.

State OMG directors are being re-
quested to inform the German minis-
ters-president of the necessity for
passing adequate press legislation,
which will prohibit censorship, protect
the press from governmental dom-
ination or domination by special-
interests and which will guarantee
that there be no arbitrary inter-
ference by the police or other ad-
ministrative bodies in the free flow
and dissemination of news and printed
matter.

Conferences are being initiated
with political leaders in the states of
the US Zone to acquaint them with
the MG decision.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
The Berlin Crisif

A Report on the Moscow Discussions, 19

The United States Government
issued on Sept. 28 a 25,000-word White
Paper, setting forth in detail the
events and negotiations concerning
the Berlin crisis. The text of the ex-
position, entitled ‘The Berlin Crisis:
A Report on the Moscow Discussions,
1948," follows.

Soviet Interference with Access
to Berlin

The Soviet government has maintained first
that its measures restricting communications,
transport and commerce between Berlin and
western Germany were necessitated by “‘tech-
nical difficulties’ and then that they were
“defensive” against conditions created by the
currency reform in western German’ and
western Berlin. The following chronological
record of events reveals that many of the
Soviet restrictive measures were imposed
months before the currency reform and that
they have been systematic products of a
deliberate coercive purpose rather than the
results of ‘‘technical difficulties’’:

On March 30, 1948, ten days after the
Soviet delegation had walked out of the
Allied Control Council meeting, the Soviet
deputy military governor, General Dratvin,
stated in a letter to the United States Mili-
tary Government that supplementary provi-
sions regarding communications between the
Soviet and US Zones of occupation in Ger-
many would go into effect on April 1, 1948.
These provisions, which were contrary to
practice established since the quadripartite
occupation of Berlin, set forth that:

(1) US personnel traveling through the
Soviet Zone by rail and highway must pre-
sent documentary evidence of identity and
affiliation with the US Military Administration
of Germany;

(2) Military freight shipments from Berlin
to the western zones must be cleared through
Soviet check points by means of a Soviet
permit, freight shipments into Berlin would
be cleared by accompanying documents;

(3) All baggage must be inspected at Soviet
check points, with the exception of personal
belongings of US personnel carried in a
passenger railway car or a passenger auto-
mobile.

Similar letters were delivered to the British
and French Military Government authorities.

On March 31 the Chief-of-Staff, US Military
Government, replied that the new provisions
were not acceptable and that such unilateral
changes of policy could not be recognized.
In this letter General Gailey states:

“T am prepared to have each train comman-
dant of passenger trains furnish you at an
established entry point a passenger list
accompanied by copies of the orders of each
passenger. Likewise each train commandant of
freight trains will furnish you at the entry
point with a manifest of cargo.

“However I cannot agree to permit your
representatives to enter these trains for the
purpose of examining individual _document-
ation or belongings or inspecting cargo.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“I shall be glad to discuss with you or
your representatives the procedure which I
have outlined above, although not on 24 hours
notice."

In the same letter, General Gailey also
stated:

“The agreement under which we entered
Berlin clearly provided for our free and un-
restricted utilization of the established corri-
dors, This right was a condition precedent to
our entry into Berlin and our final evacuation
of Saxony and Thuringia, I do not consider
that the provisions you now propose are con-
sistent with this agreement.”

In his reply of April 3, General Dratvin
challenged this statement and claimed that
there was no agreement ‘‘concerning the or-
derless and uncontrolled traffic of freight
and personnel through the territory of the
Soviet Zone of occupation." He termed the
new regulations ‘‘an internal matter’’ con-
cerning the Soviet occupation authorities and

The text of the US White Paper,
“The Berlin Crisis," was provided
by the Office of the Political
Adviser, CINCEUR, and the In-
formation Services Division and
Public Information Office,
OMGUS. ISD prepared a German
translation of the full text and
made it available to German
newspapers and other informa-
tional media.

saw no possibility of changing the new
regulations,

In his reply of April 4, General Gailey
pointed out that on June 29, 1945 a clear
understanding was reached between Marshal
Zhukov and US representatives that the US
Forces in Berlin would have free and un-
restricted use of the established corridors to
meet their requiremonts, subject only to nor-
mal regulation of movements. He reiterated
our willingness to provide appropriate
documents for both passenger and freight
trains, made up as military trains, but
tefused to agree to entry of represen-
tatives of another power into our military
trains while in transit between Berlin and
our zone of occupation.

Meanwhile on April 1, two US passenger
trains were stopped at the Soviet Zone border
and turned back upon refusing to accept
Soviet inspection. Two British trains were
turned back under the same condition.

Beginning April 1, the Soviets refused to
permit mail cars containing packages to de-
part from Berlin to the west, and demanded
the filing of additional forms, the character
of which was not adequately clarified. On
April 3, 1948 the Soviets closed the Hamburg-
Berlin and Bavaria-Berlin rail routes requiring
all freight to move to Berlin via Helmstedt.

On April 2, the Soviets requested the
American authorities to close down effective
May 1, the US aid station which was midway

32

on the only automobile highway ay
between Berlin and Helmstedt. Later |
also requested removal by April 15 of
Signal Corps personnel stationed in
Soviet Zone at Weimar for the mainte;
of repeater stations required for our off
telephone communications with Berlin, Th
British received a similar request to
their Signal Corps men from Magdebu
request was protested by our letter of Ay
but the personnel were removed on April {

On April 20, the Soviets imposed

requirement for individual clearance of bar
moving through the Soviet Zone to and fro
Berlin. Protest by the British had no e

On April 23, international train
from Berlin was suspended by a Soviet o
prohibiting the two international
from being attached to the interzonal
between Berlin and Osnabrueck,

On May 20, a new documentation
ment for barge traffic entering the
Zone was instituted, When British authorit
thereupon reciprocally introduced si
requirements on barge traffic, a tempol
suspension of all barge traffic across
boundaries resulted, Subsequently this tr
was resumed for a time on a reciprocal

On June 9, the Soviets introduced
laterally new regulations for German |
into the Soviet Zone, demanding
authorization in contravention of
Control Council directives,

On June 9, the Soviet authorities, b
to German railway officials, tried to in
with operations in the railroad yards in
US Sector of Berlin, This interference
prevented by the appearance of Ui
guards. B
On June 12, the Soviets announced
closing of the Elbe bridge on the Auto!
(superhighway) between Berlin and the 1
for repairs. A detour and ferry service
arranged.

On June 16, the Soviet delegation
out of the Allied Kommandatura of Bi

After the announcement on June 18 of.
currency reform for all of western
(but not western sectors of Berlin),
on June 19 suspended all passenger
traffic between western and eastern
All road traffic from western zones
Soviet Zone, including traffic on the Al
bahn to Berlin was also stopped.
rail freight was reduced in volume by
of technical procedures and water
was subject to stricter regulations,
The French commandant, chairman
Berlin Kommandatura, invited on June |
other members to a special meeting to d
the effects of the currency reform on
but the Soviet member declined the invil

On June 22, at the request of the t
western powers, i

a quadpartite meetil
financial and economic advisers’ tool
in Berlin to discuss the problem of
for Berlin, The Soviet representative
that there could be no currency for
different from the currency of the surro
Soviet Zone. They would not accede t¢
dripartite control of the currency for
Immediately after the meeting - the
authorities issued their orders for
reform in the Soviet zone and al] of

In view of the inability to obtain agret
ona currency for-Berlin under quad

OCTOBER 19,

--- Page 36 ---
control, the western Allies informed the Soviets
Gf their intention to introduce into the
Srestern sectors of Berlin the new Deutsche
mark of the western zones (over-stamped ‘'B"
for Berlin). The public announcement was
made on June 23,

On June 23, the Soviets suspended all rail-
road passenger and freight traffic into Berlin,
because of alleged “‘tedinical difficulties on
the Berlin-Helmstedt rail line. They also
stopped barge traffic on similar grounds.

shortly before midnight of June 23, the
soviet authorities issued orders to the Berlin
central electric switch-control station (located
in their sector) to disrupt delivery of electric
ower from Soviet Zone and Soviet Sector
Jants to the western sectors. Shortage of
Foal was given as a reason for this measure.

Soviet traffic restrictions issued on June 19
were followed by subsequent prohibitions in
the following week, West-bound road traffic
only was still permitted for a time, subject to
Soviet control at check points, Mail and par-
cel post traffic was completely suspended.
On June 24, because of these unacceptable
restrictions, the American and British autho-
tities ordered all freight trains from US and
British zones to the Soviet Zone stopped.
Traffic from the East continued to be accepted.

On June 24, the Soviets issued orders pro-
hibiting the distribution of any supplies from
the Soviet Zone to the western sectors of
Berlin thereby violating a four-power agree-
ment for supplying Berlin from a common
pool. The western powers thereupon forbade
distribution of any supplies from western
sources to the Soviet Sector of Berlin.

On June 26, General Robertson in a letter
to Marsnal Sokolovsky protested against in-
terruption of essential freight traffic between
Berlin and the West.

On June 29, Marshal Sokolovsky answered
General Kobertson’s letter. He described the
restrictions on interzonal passenger traffic as
connected with the currency exchange and
announced the reestablishment of rail facili-
ties for movement of the German population.
He declared that the restrictions on motor
traffic must be retained to prevent conveyance
to Berlin of currency from the western zones,
He announced that the technical defects on
the railroad line were in process of eli-
mination and his expectation that traffic
would recommence as soon as possible, He
protested against British stoppage of freight
train movements between the Soviet and the
British Zones,

General Robertson answered this letter on
July 3, stressing the positive elements of the
letter and reiterating his willingness to dis-
cuss use of one currency in Berlin, He
Tepeated his request for resumption of normal
transportation facilities between Berlin and
the West.

On July 3, Generals Robertson, Noiret and
Clay visited Marshal Sokolovsky. General
Robertson inquired what the technical difficul-
ties were which according to Sokolovsky's
letter were holding up train traffic. He asked
for assurance that traffic could be resumed
at an early date, and when, He further drew
attention to the fact that no alternative rou-
tes had been made available. Marshal Soko-
lovsky stated that the question raised by
Robertson was important to the Western Allies
and that they wanted it treated alone, whereas
there were other questions important to him.
He continued that he had never said that
traffic on the railway was held up for other
than technical reasons and that these reasons
still applied,

nie declared at length that the Western
hed’ as a result of their London Conference
created economic disorders in the Soviet
alterna i made it impossible to provide
Stonudte routes. He reiterated that the present
ePage was for technical reasons, although
nical wd not guarantee that when these tech-
might “culties had been cleared, others
‘ght not occur elsewhere.

a became thus evident that further endea-
's by the western military governors to

OCTOBER 19, 1948

settle the Berlin problem locally would serve
no useful purpose.

The Moscow Discussions

Exchange of Notes on Berlin Crisis

Accordingly the governments of the United
States, the United Kingdom and France
decided to make formal representations to
the government of the USSR. The three
western powers on July 6 delivered similar
notes to Soviet representatives in Washing-
ton, London and Paris.

The American Note of July 6, In the Ameri-
can note, the Soviet government was informed
that the United States regarded the bloccade
measures as ‘a clear violation of existing
agreements concerning the administration of
Berlin by the four cocupying powers.”” The
United States categorically asserted that it
was in occupation of its sector of Berlin
with free access thereto ‘as a matter of
established right deriving from the defeat and
surrender of Germany and confirmed by for-
mal agreements among the principal Allies.
The United States also emphatically declared
that it would "not be induced by threats
pressures or other actions to abandon these
rights.”

This consideration, together with respon-
sibility for the physical well-being of the
population of its sector of Berlin, including
hundreds of thousands of women and children,
obliged the United States to insist that ‘“‘in
accordance with existing agreements the
arrangements for the movement of freight
and passenger traffic between the western
zones and Berlin be fully restored.”

The United States emphasized again its
willingness to settle by negotiation, or by
any of the other peaceful methods provided
for in Article 33 of the Charter of the United
Nations, any disagreement which might exist
between the USSR and the United States over
the administration of Berlin, but it stressed
that such negotiation could not be entered
into as a result of duress. Specifically, the
United States offered, once blockade measures
were lifted to participate in negotiations in
Berlin among the four Allied occupying
authorities, The full text of the American
note follows:

“The United States government wishes to
call to the attention of the Soviet government
the extremely serious international situation
which has been brought about by the actions
of the Soviet Government in imposing restric-
tive measures on transport which amount now
to a blockade against the sectors in Berlin
occupied by the United States, United King-
dom and France. The United States govern-
ment regards these measures of blockade as
a clear violation of existing agreements con-
cerning the administration of Berlin by the
four occupying powers.

“The rights of the United States as a joint
occupying power in Berlin derive from the
total defeat and unconditional surrender of
Germany, The international agreements un-
dertaken’ in connection therewith by the
governments of the United States, United
Kingdom, France and the Soviet Union de-
fined the zones in Germany and the sectors
in Berlin which are occupied by these powers.
They established the quadripartite control of
Berlin on a basis of friendly cooperation
which the Government of the United States
earnestly desires to continue to pursue.

“These agreements implied the right-of free
access to Berlin, This right has long been
confirmed by usage. It was directly specified
in a message sent by President Truman to
Premier Stalin on June 14, 1945, which agreed
to the withdrawal of United States forces to
the zonal boundaries, provided satisfactory
arrangements could be entered into between
the military commanders, which would give
access by rail, road and air to United States
forces in Berlin. Premier Stalin replied on
June 16 suggesting a change in date but no
other alteration in the plan proposed by the
President, Premier Stalin then gave assuran-
ces that all necessary measures would be

33

taken in accordance with the plan. Correspon-
dence in a similar sense took place between
Premier Stalin and Mr, Churchill.

“In accordance with this understanding, the
United States, whose armies had penetrated
deep into Saxony and Thuringia, parts of the
Soviet Zone, withdrew its forces to its own
area of occupation in Germany and took up
its position in its own sector in Berlin.
Thereupon the agreements in regard to the
occupation of Germany and Berlin went into
effect. The United States would not have so
withdrawn its troops from a large area now
occupied by the Soviet Union had there been
any doubt whatsoever about the observance
of its agreed right of free access to its sector
of Berlin, The right of the United States to
its position in Berlin thus stems from pre-
cisely the same source as the right of the
Soviet Union. It is impossible to assert the
latter and deny the former.

“It clearly results from these undertakings
that Berlin is not a part of the Soviet Zone,
but is an international zone of occupation.
Commitments entered into in good faith by
the zone commanders, and subsequently con-
firmed by the Allied Control Authority, as well
as practices sanctioned by usage, guarantee
the United States together with other powers,
free access to Berlin for the purpose of
fulfilling its responsibilities as an occupying
power. The facts are plain. Their meaning is
clear. Any other interpretation would offend
all the rules of comity and reason.

“In order that there should be no misunder-
standing whatsoever on this point, the United
States government categorically asserts that
it is in occupation of its sector in Berlin with
free access thereto as a matter of established
right deriving from the defeat and surrender
of Germany and confirmed by formal agree-
ments among the principal Allies. It further
declares that it will not be induced by threats,
pressures or other actions to abandon these
rights. It is hoped that the Soviet Government
entertains no doubts whatsoever on this point.

“This government now shares with the
governments of France and the United King-
dom the responsibility initially undertaken at
Soviet request on July 7, 1945, for the physical
well-being of 2,400,000 persons in the western
sectors of Berlin. Restrictions recently imposed
by the Soviet authorities in Berlin have
operated to prevent this Government and the
Governments of the United Kingdom and of
France from fulfilling that responsibility in an
adequate manner.

“The responsibility which this Government
bears for the physical well-being and the
safety of the German population in its sector
of Berlin is outstandingly humanitarian in
character. This population includes hundreds
of thousands of women and children, whose
health and safety are dependent on the con-
tinued use of adequate facilities for moving
food, medical supplics and other items in-
dispensable to the maintenance of human life
in the western sectors of Berlin. The most
elemental of these human rights which both
our governments are solemnly pledged to
protect are thus placed in jeopardy by these
restrictions, It is intolerable that any one of
the occupying authorities should attempt to
impose a blockade upon the people of Berlin,

“The United States government is therefore
obliged to insist that in accordance with
existing agreements the arrangements for the
movement of freight and passenger traffic
between the western zones and Berlin be
fully restored. There can be no question of
delay in the restoration of these essential
services since the needs of the civilian
population in the Berlin area are imperative.

“Holding these urgent views regarding its
rights and obligations in the United States
Sector of Berlin, yet eager always to resolve
controversies in the spirit of fair con-
sideration for the viewpoints of all concerned,
the government of the United States declares
that duress should not be iinvoked as a
method of attempting to dispose of any dis-
agreements which may exist between the
Soviet government and the government of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
United States in respect of any aspect of the
Berlin situation.

“Such disagreements if any should be
settled by negotiation or by any of the other
peaceful methods provided for in Article 33
of the Charter in keeping with our mutual
pledges as copartners in the United Nations.
For these reasons the government of the
United States is ready as a first step to
participate in negotiations in Berlin among
the four Allied occupying authorities for the
settlement of any question in dispute arising
out of the administration of the city of Berlin.
it is, however, a prerequisite that the lines of
communication and the movement of persons
and goods between the United Kingdom, the
United States and the French sectors in Berlin
and the western zones shall have been fully
restored.

“Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances
of my highest consideration."

The Soviet Note of July 14. The Soviet
reply to the American note, dated July 14,
1948, contained no reference to the previous
explanation of the blockade measures as due
to “technical difficulties." Rather, it was now
openly admitted that the blockade was in
effect retaliation against actions of the
western powers in their own occupation zones
of Germany. For the first time, and despite
all agreements to the contrary, the Soviet
Government put forward the claim that Berlin
"is a part of’ the Soviet Zone. The Soviet
note ended with the contention that Berlin
problems were inseparably linked with
questions involving the whole of Germany
and that negotiations would be effective only
if they encompassed the entire German
situation. Moreover, the Soviet government
refused to permit restoration of the lines of
communication between the western zones
and Berlin, which restoration had been
declared by the United States government to
be a prerequisite for any negotiations, Trans-
lated text of the reply follows:

The Soviet government has familiarized
itself with the note of the government of the
United States of America of July 6, 1948 in
which the situation which has been created
at the present time in Berlin is described as
a result of measures taken by the Soviet side.
The Soviet government cannot agree with this
statement of the government of the United
States and considers that the situation which
has been created in Berlin has arisen as a
result of violation by the governments of the
United States of America, Great Britain, and
France of agreed decisions taken by the four
powers in regard to Germany and Berlin
which (violation) has found its expression in
the carrying out of a separate currency
reform, in the introduction of a special cur-
rency for the western sectors of Berlin and in
the policy of the dismemberment of Germany,
The Soviet government has more than once
warned the governments of the United States
of America, Great Britain and France in
regard to the responsibility which they would
take upon themselves in following along the
path of the violation of agreed decisions
previously adopted by the four powers in
regard to Germany. The decisions adopted at
the Yalta and Potsdam Conferences and also
the agreement of the four powers concerning
the control mechanism in Germany have as
their aim the demilitarization and demo-
cratization of Germany, the removal of the
base itself of German militarism and the pre-
vention of the revival of Germany as an
aggressive power and thereby the trans-
formation of Germany into a preace-loving and
democratic state. These agreements envisage
the obligation of Germany to pay reparations
and thereby to make at least partial com-
pensation for the damage to those countries
which suffered from German aggression. In
accordance wih these agreements the govern-
ments of the four powers took upon themselves
the responsibility for the administration of
Germany and bound themselves jointly to
draw up a statute for Germany or for any
areas including Berlin which were part of
German territory and to conclude with
Germany a peace treaty which should be
signed by a government of a democratic
Germany adequate for that purpose.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“These most important agreements of the
four powers in regard to Germany have
been violated by the governments of the
United States of America, Great Britain, and
France, Measures for the demilitarization of
Germany have not been completed and such
a very important center of Germany military
industry as the Ruhr district has been taken
out from under the control of the four
powers, The execution of decisions con-
cerning reparations from the western zones
of occupation of. Germany has been inter-
tupted by the governments of the USA, the
UK, and France. By the separate actions of
the governments of the USA, Great Britain,
and France the four power control mechanism
in Germany has been destroyed and the
Control Council as a result thereof has ceased
its activity.

“Following the London meeting of the three
powers with the participation of Benelux,
measures have been undertaken by the
governments of the USA, Great Britain, and
France directed towards the division and dis-
menberment of Germany including pre-
parations which are now in progress for the
designation of a separate government for the
Western zones of Germany and the separate

currency reform for the western zones of
occupation carried out on June 18th of
this year.

“In as much as the situation created in
Berlin as well as in all Germany is the
direct result of the systematic violation by
the governments of the USA, Great Britain,
and France of the decisions of the Potsdam
Conference and also of the agreement of the
four powers concerning the control mechanism
in Germany, the Soviet government must
reject as completely unfounded the statement
of the government of the US to the effect
that the measures for the restriction of trans-
port communications between Berlin and the
western zones of occupation of Germany
introduced by the Soviet command for the
defense of the economy of the Soviet Zone
against its disorganization are allegedly in
violation of the existing agreements con-
cerning the administration of Berlin.

“2, The government of the US declares
that it is occupying its sector in Berlin by
tight arising out of the defeat and capi-
tulation of Germany, referring in this con-
nection to agreements between the four
powers in regard to Germany and Berlin.
This merely confirms the fact that the ex-
ercise of the above mentioned right in regard
to Berlin is linked to the obligatory exe-
cution by the powers occupying Germany of
the four-power agreements concluded among
themselves in regard to Germany as a whole.
In conformity with these agreements Berlin
was envisaged as the seat of the supreme
authority of the four powers occupying
Germany, in which connection the agreement
concerning the administration of ‘Greater
Berlin’ under the direction of the Control
Council was reached.

“Thus the agreement concerning the four-
power administration of Berlin is an inse-
Parable component part of the agreement
for the four power administration of Germany
as_a_whole. After the USA, Great Britain
and France by their separate actions in the
western zones of Germany destroyed the
system of four-power administration of
Germany and had begun to set up a capital
for a government for western Germany in
Frankfurt-am-Main, they thereby undermined
as well the legal basis which assured their
right to participation in the administration
of Berlin.

“The government of the United States in
its note points out that its right to be in
Berlin is based also on the fact that the
United States withdrew its forces from
certain regions of the Soviet Zone of occu-
pation into which they had penetrated during
the period of hostilities in Germany, and
that if it (the United States government)
had foreseen the situation, which has been
created in Berlin, it would not have with-
drawn its forces from those regions. How-
ever, the government of the United States
well knows that in removing its troops to

34

the boundaries of the American Zone esta-
blished by agreement of the four powers
concerning zones of occupation in German
it was only carrying out an obligation whic
it had taken upon itself, the execution of
which could alone accord the right of the
entry of the troops of the US into Berlin,
An examination of the letter referred to dn
the note of the government of the USA of
President Truman to Premier Stalin of June
14, 1945 and the letter in reply of Premier
Stalin of June 16, 1945 confirms the fact
that, thanks to the agreement then reached,
the forces of the USA, Great Britain and
France were given the opportunity to enter
not only the capital of Germany, Berlin, but
also the capital of Austria, Vienna, which as
is known, were taken only by the forces of
the Soviet Army. In addition, it is known that
the agreements referred to concerning the
question of Berlin and also of Vienna were
only a part of the agreements concerning
Germany and Austria upon the fulfillment of
which the Soviet government continues to
insist.

“3, The government of the United States
declares that the temporary measures put
into effect by the Soviet Command for the
restriction of transport communications be-
tween Berlin and the western zones have
created difficulties in supplying the Berlin
population of the western sectors, It is im-
possible, however, to deny the fact that
those difficulties were occasioned by the
actions of the governments of the USA,
Great Britain and France, and primarily by
their separate actions in the introduction of
new currency in the western zones of
Germany and ‘special currency in the western
sectors of Berlin,

“Berlin lies in the center of the Soviet
Zone and is a part of that zone. The inter-
ests of the Berlin population do not permit
a situation in which in Berlin or only in the
western sectors of Berlin there shall be
introduced special currency which has no
validity in the Soviet Zone. Moreover, the
carrying out of a separate monetary reform
in the western zones of Germany has placed’
Berlin and the whole Soviet Zone of occu-
pation as well in a situation in which the
entire mass of currency notes which were
cancelled in the western zone threatened to
pour into Berlin and the Soviet Zone of occu-
pation of Germany.

“The Soviet command has been forced
therefore to adopt certain urgent measures
for the protection of the interests of the
German population and also of the economy
of the Soviet Zone of occupation and the
area of ‘Greater Berlin." The danger of the
disruption of the normal economic activity
of the Soviet Zone and of Berlin has not
been eliminated even at the present time,
in as much as the United States, Great
Britain and France continue to maintain in
Berlin their special currency.

“Furthermore, the Soviet command has
consistently displayed and is displaying
concern for the well being of the Berlin

population and for assuring to them normal
supply in all essentials and is striving for
the speediest elimination of the difficulties
which have arisen recently in this: matter.
In this connection, if the situation requires,
the Soviet government would not object to
assuring by its own means adequate supply
for all ‘Greater Berlin’.

“With reference to the statement of ihe
government of the United States that it Me
not be compelled by threats, pressure Of
other actions to renounce its right to Patt
cipation in the occupation of Berlin, tee
Soviet government does not intend to en! t
into discussion of this statement since @
has no need for a policy of pressure, since
by violation of the agreed decisions concer®
ing the administration of Berlin the above
mentioned governments themselves are aa
ducing to naught their right to participatio
in the occupation of Berlin.

“4, The government of the United States
in its note of July 6 expresses the read! re
to begin negotiations between the

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 38 ---
Allied occupying authorities for consideration
of the situation created in Berlin but passes
by in silence the question of Germany as a
whole,

“The Soviet government, while not ob-
jecting to negotiations, considers, however,
it necessary to state that it cannot link the
inauguration of these negotiations with the
fulfilling of any preliminary conditions what-
soever and that, in the second place, four-
power conversations could be effective only
in the event that they were not limited to
the question of the administration of Berlin,
since that question cannot be severed from
the general question of four-power control
in regard to Germany.

“Accept, Mr, Secretary of State, the assu-
rances of my highest consideration.”

Preliminaries to Stalin Meeting

Western Request for Discussions with Stalin
and Molotov. The Government of the United
States, as well as the Governments of the
United Kingdom and France, considered the
Soviet reply to their notes of July 6 unsatis-
factory. Nevertheless, desiring to leave no
stone unturned in the interest of peace, they
decided to make another appeal to Soviet
authorities. A request for an appointment
on July 30 for representatives of the three
powers to meet with Foreign Minister
Molotov met with a reply from Mr. Molotov's
principal secretary, Erfeev, to the effect that
the Foreign Minister was ‘‘on vacation,” and
the suggestion that in view’ of Mr. Vishinsky's
absence as weil, the matter be taken up
with Deputy Foreign Minister Zorin, US Am-
bassador Smith pointed out that the matter
was of great importance, and inquired whether
Molotov personally might be available
“within a few days."

Erfeev promised to investigate; but later the
same day he reported that since Molotov's
vacation had only just begun, it would be
necessary for the western representatives to
see Zorin. It was decided to present the
problem to Zorin, At 6 p.m. on July 30, a
meeting with Zorin was held and he was
handed by Ambassador Smith the following
aide memoire (similar to those handed
simultaneously to Zorin by the British envoy,
Mr. Roberts, and by the French Ambassador,
Mr. Chataigneau, on behalf of their respective
governments) :

US Aide Memoire. ‘The United States
Government has given the most serious
consideration to the note delivered by the
Soviet Ambassador in Washington and has
exchanged views with the British and French
governments on the similar notes received
by these governments. The United States
government does not accept the contention
in the Soviet note that the right of he
Western occupying powers to participate
in the occupation of Berlin no longer exists,
and while they do not wish to enter into
a detailed discussion of the allogations
contained in Mr, Panyushkin's note of July 14,
they would like to make it plain at the
outset that they cannot accept the Soviet
version of the facts nor the interpretation
Placed on them,

Whatever may be the reasons which have
led the Soviet authorities to decide the
Testriction of communications between Berlin
and Western Zones of occupation of Germany,
whether these reasons be technical as was
first stated, or political, as Mr. Panyushkin's
Rote would seem to indicate, the measures
taken by the Soviet authorities in Berlin
have created an abnormal and dangerous
Situation, the gravity of which does not
need to be emphasized.

The Soviet reply of July 14 offers no
Constructive suggestion for the bringing to
an end of the abnormal situation in Berlin.
levertheless the United States government

&8 any peace-loving government, holds the
view

that this situation is capable of
Settlement, They trust that the Soviet
Government shares this view: the question
of negotiation has never been, and is not

OCTOBER 19, 1948

the issue, The willingness to negotiate in
the absence of duress has always been there,
In the opinion of the United States govern-
ment, the best way to a solution of the
present difficulties lies in direct approach.
They think that a frank discussion between
Generalissimo Stalin and Mr. Molotov on
one side and the representatives of each
of the three Western occupying powers on
the other side should give the opportunity
of finding a solution. I accordingly have
been instructed by my government to request
that you should arrange an interview between
Generalissimo Stalin and Mr. Molotov on the
one hand and the French Ambassador, the
UK Charge d’Affaires and myself on the
other hand in order to discuss the present
situation in Berlin and its wider implications.”’

Conversation with Zorin. The reaction of
Mr. Zorin to the western representation was
described by US Ambassador Smith as “‘un-
compromising.’ Zorin stated that the absence
of Mr. Molotov on vacation prevented for the
time being the granting of the requested
meeting. He then said that there was no
indication in the aide memoire of any change
in the position of the US or of any subjects
which would make profitable a discussion
with Generalissimo Stalin and Mr. Molotov.
However, he would transmit the request to
his government for consideration. Ambassador
Smith replied that the presentation had been
brief since the general position of the US
had already been made clear, It would be
redefined and amplified during the proposed
discussions,

Mr. Zorin said that he could only say that
the position of the Soviet government had
also been clearly defined in its note of
July 14 but that he would, as previously
stated, present the request to his government.

Preliminary Meeting with Molotov, July 31.
On the day following the Zorin interview,
the representatives of the western powers
were informed that separate appointments
with Mr. Molotov had been arranged for the
same evening. At the meeting with Ambas-
sador Smith, Molotov referred to the aide
memoire and asked what kind of discussion
and negotiations the western governments had
in mind, at present and for the future, On
Smith's replying that the aide memoire was
intentionally brief and lacking in detail,
since it was the purpose of the proposed con-
versations to develop necessary detail, Molotov
repeated the point made in the Soviet note
of July 14 to the effect that conversations
regarding Berlin were not practical except
within the framework of conversations regard-
ing all of Germany. He then pressed for a
statement of US views as to problems
relating to Germany as a whole. Ambassador
Smith reported that in reply he stated the
formal position of the two governments had
been made clear in the two notes which had
been exchanged, but the formal written word
was very rigid and much more could be
accomplished by informal exploration.

First Meeting with Stalin

The requested interview between represent-
atives of the western powers on the one side
and Stalin and Molotov on the other side took
place on Aug. 2 at nine in the evening.

Ambassador Smith opened the conversation
by presenting the following oral statement to
Generalissimo Stalin:

"It is not our purpose at this time to rebut
in detail the charges contained in the Soviet
note. It is highly important, however, to make
completely clear certain fundamental points in
the position of the United States, the United
Kingdom and France and to clarify the
position of the Soviet Union which in certain
respects is obscure. The three governments
must reemphasize their right to be in Berlin
to be unquestionable and absolute. They do
not intend to be coerced by any means what-
soever into abandoning this right.

“Action taken by the Soviets in interfering
with rights in connection with occupation,
derived through the defect and surrender of
Germany and through international agree-
ment and usage, by interrupting communi-

35

cations between Berlin and the western zones,
thus interfering with duties of Allied military
forces of occupation, is viewed with extreme
seriousness by the governments of the United
States, the United Kingdom and France. It is
incumbent on them to take such measures as
are necessary to assure the supply of their
forces and discharge of their occupational
duties. The United States, the United Kingdom
and France do not wish the situation to
deteriorate further and assume that the Soviet
government shares this desire. The three
governments have in mind restrictive measures,
which have been placed by Soviet authorities
on communication between the western
zones of Germany and western sectors of
Berlin. It was the feeling of our governments
that if these measures arose: from technical
difficulties, such difficulties can be easily
remedied. The three governments renew their
offer of assistance to this end. If in any way
related to the currency problem, such meas-
ures are obviously uncalled for, since this
problem could have been, and can now be,
adjusted by representatives of the four powers
in Berlin. If, on the other hand, these meas-
ures are designed to bring ‘about nego-
tiations among the four occupying powers
they are equally unnecessary, since the
governments of the United Kingdom, the
United States and France have never at any
time declined to meet representatives of the
Soviet Union to discuss questions relating to
Germany, However, if the purpose of these
measures is to attempt to compel the three
governments to abandon their rights as oc-
cupying powers in Berlin, the Soviet govern-
ment will understand from what has been
stated previously that such an attempt could
not be allowed to succeed.

"In spite of recent occurrences, the three
powers are unwilling to believe that this last
reason is the real one, Rather they assume
that the Soviet government shares their view
that it is in the interest of all four oc-
cupying powers, of the German people and
of the world in general to prevent any further
deterioration of the position and to find a
way by mutual agreement to bring to an end
the extremely dangerous situation that has
developed in Berlin.

“The Soviet government will, however,
appreciate that the three governments are
unable to negotiate on the situation which
the Soviet government has undertaken the
initiative in creating. Free negotiation can
only take place in an atmosphere relieved of
pressure. This is the issue, Present restrictions
upon communications between Berlin and the
western zones offend against these principles.
When this issue is relieved such difficulties
as stand in the way of resumption of con-
versations on the lines set out above should
be removed."

Molotov then said that he would report to
his government on the US, British and French
approaches; that he hoped Stalin would agree
to meet representatives of the three govern-
ments; and that his purpose in this talk was
simply to clarify our proposals.

The remainder of the two hour meeting
was taken up with a discussion which de-
veloped from the points brought out in Am-
bassador Smith's statement.

Premier Stalin, though emphatically main-
taining that it was not the purpose of the
Soviet government to oust allied forces
from Berlin, reiterated the contention of the
Soviet note of July 14 that the western
powers no longer had a juridical right to
occupy Berlin. This, of couise, was categori-
cally rejected in the statement just presen-
ted by Smith which declared that the three
western governments '"'reemphasize their
right to be in Berlin to be unquestionable
and absolute. They do not intend to be coer-
ced by any means whatsoever into abandon-
ing this right."

Discussion of the possibility of resumption
of negotiations on Berlin and of a four-po-
wer meeting to consider problems relating to
Germany as a whole revealed agreement as
to the desirability of such developments. But
to a suggestion by Stalin as to items to be
included in the agenda of a four power meet-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
ing, the western representatives replied that
they were not in a position to consider an
agenda, and that in any event negotiations
on broad German problems would not be
possible until duress in Berlin was removed.

Stalin developed the argument that the co-
munications restrictions in Berlin
made necessary because of the decisi
ken at London in regard to the establishment
of a new German government at Frankfurt
and because of the introduction of a special
western currency in Berlin. The western re-
presentatives explained that, contrary to the
Generalissimo’s apparent understanding, it had
never been contemplated that the government
at Frankfurt would be a central German go-
vernment.

The agency now to be set up under the
London decisions would in no way hamper
eventual understanding on a central govern-
ment for a united Germany. The western re-
presentatives added that they were not autho-
tized to discuss the London decisions. They
would report Stalin's views; but in the mean-
while they felt strongly that agreement should
be reached on the immediate issues in regard
to Berlin.

At the opening of the meeting, Smith had
specified in his prepared statements after
emphasizing that the three western powers
were in Berlin as a matter of right and as
co-equals, that if the blockade measures
were ‘‘in any way related to the currency
problem, such measures are obviously un-
called for, since this problem could have
been, and can now be, adjusted by repre-
sentatives of the four powers in Berlin.'’ There
seemed no reason, consequently, why
agreement could not immediately be reached
with respect to the Berlin situation. However,
Smith stated that he was not himself an ex-
pert on currency matters and that the western
representatives were not competent to deal
with technical arrangements of the currency
question; with this view his British and French
colleagues associated themselves.

At the end of the discussion Stalin asked
whether the western representatives wanted
to settle the matter that night. If so, he
could meet them and make the following
proposal:

(1) There should be a simultaneous intro-
duction in Berlin of the Soviet Zone Deutsche
mark in place of the western mark B, to-
gether with the removal of all transport re-
strictions.

(2) He would no longer ask as a condition
the deferment of the implementation oft he Lon-
don decisions although he wished this to be
recorded as the insistent wish of the Soviet
government.

Ambassador Smith then asked Stalin about
the announcement of a resumption of nego-
tiations on Berlin and holding a four-power
meeting to consider other problems affecting
Germany. Stalin said they should be included.
Following this the three western representa-
tives agreed to present Stalin's proposal to
their governments.

Stalin Meeting. It was
the belief of the western governments that
the progress made in the discussion with
Stalin and Molotov was such that the settle-
ment of the immediate Berlin crisis could be
effected. The Soviet authorities were prepa-
red to remove all transport restrictions be-
tween Berlin and the western zones, Resump-
tion of negotiations on Berlin and a four-po-
wer meeting to consider other outstanding
problems affecting Germany was accepted
without conditions, although Stalin wished
it recorded as the insistent desire of the Sov-
iet government that the execution of the Lon-
don decisions with respect to the establishment
of a western German government be suspended
until such time as the four powers met
and tried to reach an agreement concerning
Germany.

Reaction to

There remained the problem of working out
general details with Molotov, and the arran-
gement of technical matters regarding th»

INFORMATION BULLETIN

substitution of the Soviet Zone mark for the
western B mark in Berlin.

In order, however, that there should be no
misunderstanding of the position of the Ame-
rican government in regard to finalizing the
currency proposal developed at the meeting,
the following specific instruction was sent
to Ambassador Smith:

“We agree to the outline of the draft
statement developed at your Aug. 2 meeting
with Stalin and Molotov.

“Our acceptance of Soviet Zone currency
in Berlin cannot be unconditional and its
use must be subject to some form of quadri-
partite control. This requirement is essential
for the maintenance of our position in Berlin
and is made doubly necessary because of
Soviet action of the last few days in freez-
ing the accounts of western sector enterprises
in Berlin.

“The substitution of the Soviet Zone mark
for the Bmark in Berlin can now be accep-
ted in principle but our agreement must be
supplemented by a_ satisfactory agreement
providing for quadripartite control of the

availability and use of the Soviet currency

Mr, Walter Bedell Smith, US am-
bassador to Moscows, is interviewed
by an American correspondent at Tem-
pelhof airport during a stop in Berlin
on his way back to the Russian capi-
tal in May. (US Army Signal Corps photo)

in Berlin. In our opinion such agreement
should include control of credit, uniform ap-
plication of credit rules and currency issue
within Berlin, availability of sufficient funds
for occupation powers, and some arrange-
ments to cover trade between the western
zones and Berlin, Arrangements of this cha-
racter are necessary for the orderly use of
separate currencies in the eastern and western
zones."*

Although the interview with Stalin had
ended without his having made it a condition
precedent to settlement of the Berlin crisis
that there should be a suspension of the
execution of the London decisions with
respect to the establishment of a western
German government, his earlier expressed
concern with that’ development received
careful consideration, both by the western
representatives in Moscow, and by this
government. Having it in mind, the Depart-
ment of State sent Ambassador Smith the
following for his information in case this
question should arise again:

“September 1 does not represent the date
of formal establishment of such a govern-
mental organization. It is rather the date
on which representatives from the German
states will begin the exploratory study of
the problems involved in the setting up of
the common organization. It is certainly not
intended that any conclusions that they reach

36

shall preclude or contravene any agreement i
arrived at by the four powers on a govern.
ment for all Germany.” mh
£
Li
Drafting Meetings with Foreign Minister
Molotov

On the basis of the foregoing ani |
similar instructions, as. well os
developed in conversations with the British
and French, Ambassador Smith joined with
his British and French colleagues acting und
the instructions of their respective govern.
ments in an endeavor to arrive at a draft
implementation of the conversation with
Prime Minister Stalin to be brought into
final form in a_ further conversation with
Foreign Minister Molotov. To this end the
then arranged a meeting with the latter whieh
in fact became a drawn out series of meetings
with him, on Aug. 6, 9, 12 and 16, some FE
of them over three hours long, ending jn
failure to arrive at any satisfactory agreement,

This failure to reach agreement in dra:

a concrete implementation of the principles
for terminating the Berlin crisis, as dise
cussed with Stalin, resulted from the fact that _
the fundamental objectives from which Molo-
tov approached the drafting were diametri-
cally opposed to those of the western repres
sentatives. This fundamental conflict is reflec.
ted in the differences between the initial draft.
suggested by the latter, and the counter-dratt
proposed by Molotov.

The Initial Western Draft. The initial
draft proposed by the western _repre-
sentatives and rejected by Molotov was in the
form of a draft communique for issuance in

the name of the four governments. Its text
is as follows:

“As the result of discussions held in Mos-
cow between Generalissimo Stalin and Mr.
Molotov, and French, United Kingdom and
United States representatives, the govern
ments of France, the United Kingdom, the
United States of America and the Union of 5
Soviet Socialist Republics have agreed as
follows: f

“All restrictions which have been imposed
on the transport of persons and goods in
either direction between the three western _
zones of Germany and Berlin shall be imm
diately removed, and freedom of communi+
cations shall be maintained.

“Meetings shall be held among represen-
tatives of the four governments to consider
any questions which may be outstanding as
regards Berlin and any other outstanding pro
blems affecting Germany as a whole,

“Soviet Zone mark will be accepted as the
sole currency for Berlin and the western _
mark will be withdrawn as soon as quadri-
partite arrangements have been agreed upon
by the four military governors for the isst
and control of currency in Berlin. These
arrangements shall ensure: No discrimination
or action against holders of either eastei

western zone currency; equal treatment as
currency and provision of fully accessible
banking and credit facilities for all sectors of
Berlin; adequate funds for budgetary purposes
and occupation costs; and a satisfactory basis
for trade between Berlin and the westet
zones. Implementation of these arrangements
shall be carried out by the Berlin Kommal
jatura."’

Mr. Molotov's Counterdraft. Mr. Molotov
rejected the foregoing draft and, at the secor
meeting, on Aug. 9, made his own count
proposal in the following substitute text:

“1, All restrictions which have been impost
after the announcement of currency reform
the western zones on the transport of perso!
and goods in either direction between

three western zones of Germany and Berl
shall be removed on Aug. 15 and freedom
communications shall be maintained in accof
dance with the present agreement.

“2. All restrictions which have been
posed after the announcement of currency
reform in the western zones on the traffi¢
goods to and from the Soviet Zone and
three western zones of Germany shall

OCTOBER 19, 1946

--- Page 40 ---
removed on Aug. 15 and freedom of com-
munications shall be nfaintained.

“3, Meetings among representatives of the
four governments in the form of the Council
of Foreign Ministers or a separate conference
of representatives of the four powers shall
be held in the near future to discuss:

“(A) Any questions which may be outstand-
ing as regards Berlin and

“(B) Any other outstanding problems affect-
ing Germany as a whole.

“In the negotiations which took place be-
tween representatives of the four powers
consideration was given to the wish of the
Soviet government to defer the implemen-
tation of the decisions of the London con-
‘ference on the creation of a west German
government until the results of the above
mentioned meeting of representatives of the
four governments have been ascertained. In
this connection the representatives of the three
western powers stated that the governments
of these powers de not propose for the time
being to deal with the question of the forma-
tion of a government for western Germany.

“4, The German mark of the Soviet Zone
shall be accepted as from Aug. 15 as a sole
currency for Berlin and the western mark ‘'B
shall be simultaneously withdrawn from circu-
lation in Berlin.

“The regulation of currency circulation in
Berlin shall be undertaken by the German
bank of emission of the Soviet Zone of occu-
pation through the credit establishments
operating at present in Berlin and shall be
equally extended to the whole of Berlin
without discrintination against any part of
Berlin; organizations, enterprises, firms and
private persons in Berlin shall be allowed to
maintain unhampered trade and economic con-
nections with third countries and the western
zones of Germany through the German export-
import agency of the Soviet zone.

“Occupation costs resulting from the pre-
sence of forces in Berlin shall be met from
the budgets of the respective zones of occu-
pation of Germany, Berlin being exempted
from defraying occupation costs."

Fundamental Differences. The fundamen-
tal differences between these two drafts
are evident. The western draft pro-

ceeds from the position that the western occu-
pation forces in Berlin are there as a matter
of established right, and seeks to liquidate the
Present crisis on an orderly basis which
would permit the use of the Soviet Zone
currency throughout Berlin provided that the
terms of such use could be agreed upon among
the four powers and that this agreed use would
be under quadripartite control. The Molotov
counterdraft proceeds from the position that
the western Allies have lost their right to be
in Berlin but would be permitted to remain
there by “‘the present aqreement’’ which in
turn would enable the Soviet authorities to
exercise full economic control over Berlin and
to block further development of plans for the
formation of a western German government,
while remaining able at any time to resume
obstruction of our access to Berlin if they
Considered we were not complying with ‘the
Present agreement."

The Molotov draft provided for lifting of
communication restrictions imposed “after the
snnouncement of currency reform in the
pestern zones’ (i. e, June 19). This would
have meant the continuation of a large number
of hampering measures which had been put
into effect between March 30 and June 19
(see above), and would have constituted tacit
acceptance of the Soviet contention that its
Mauguration of a blockade had been ‘‘defen-
sive’ in character, a contention which the
Western governments categorically rejected.
Molotov's version also reintroduced the
question of implementation of the London
incisions regarding westerm Germany, despite

'e fact that it had been understood at the
Stalin meeting that this issue would not con-
Stitute a condition to agreement on a settle-
ment of the Berlin crisis. Furthermore, the

OCTOBER 19, 1948

Molotov draft would have delegated control
over Berlin's currency and credit to a bank
subject to exclusive Soviet control, and simi-
larly would have entrusted the conduct of
Berlin's external trade entirely to a Soviet
dominated agency.

The western representatives immediately
voiced their objections to this draft. They said
they would, of course, transmit it to their
respective govemments, but that they were
sure that it would be found unacceptable, for
reasons which they pointed out forthwith.
Considerable time was also devoted to an
examination of its details in order that the
western representatives might also give their
governments the benefit of an analysis of
Molotov’s thinking concerning it to facilitate
the search for some acceptable basis for agree-
ment.

As anticipated by Ambassador Smith, the
United States government found the Molotov
formula quite unacceptable. The objections
to certain of its features are specified in the
following excerpts from instructions sent to
Ambassador Smith:

“We find, as you correctly informed Molo-
tov, the Soviet counterdraft unacceptable in
its' present form. It is apparent from this
draft and from the statements of Stalin and
Molotov on the subject that the Soviet gov-
ernment is seeking to establish its thesis
that quadripartite control of Germany and
consequently of Berlin as well has lapsed
and therefore whatever agreement may be
reached in the Moscov discussions will con-
stitute the only (repeat only) four-power
agreement concerning Berlin. This position is
of course completely unacceptable to this
government. We have maintained and will
continue to maintain that mere Soviet
assertion cannot vitiate the quadripartite
agreements, including those defining the
tights and duties of the western powers in
Berlin, We feel it extremely important that
this point be covered in order to avoid
any misunderstanding in the future as other-
wise the Soviet authorities will probably
maintain that the three western powers in
effect accepted the Soviet thesis that the
previous four-power agreements concerning
Germany and Berlin are no longer valid
and that failing any four-power agreements
at the Council of Foreign Ministers or else-
where we have no rights in Berlin other
than those accorded by the agreements set
forth in the proposed announcement.

“As previously stressed, we cannot  re-
cognize Berlin as part of the Soviet Zone
and it follows from this that we cannot
accept the conduct of Berlin's external trade
through the medium of the Soviet Zone's
trade monopoly. Because of their supplies of
food and raw materials to Berlin, the western
nations have a_ substantial interest in the
city, and in seeking agreement on the regu-
lation of trade matters they are asking for
no more than an assurance concerning the
proper and efficacious use of their contri-
butions. The economic well-being of Berlin
depends on the maximum freedom of its
trade with the other parts of Germany. In
the interest of simplification and in order
to obviate a currency war, the western
nations are willing to accept a Soviet Zone
mark as the sole circulating medium but
four-power supervision of its use in Berlin
is essential to establish a satisfactory
economic relationship between Berlin and
the rest of Germany.”

The British and French Governments were
also unable to accept the Soviet position
reflected in Molotov'’s counterdraft. The three
representatives informed him of the positions
of their governments in the next meeting
which was held on Aug. 12. At this meet-
ing, the following agreed statement was
made by Ambassador Smith on behalf of the
three powers:

“We have now received and compared
instructions from our respective governments

and find, as anticipated at the conclusion
of the Aug. 9 conference, that the Soviet
proposals in their present form are un-

acceptable. Mr, Molotov will recall that at

37

the last conference we each directed parti-
cular attention to paragraphs 3 and 5 of
the Soviet draft and stated they raised issues
which our governments regarded as of
fundamental importance. I will refer to thes»
issues again during our detailed discussion
of the Soviet draft and reemphasize the

position of our governments with respect
thereto.

“1, The Soviet government has inserted
into the original western draft the words

‘after announcement of currency reform in
the western zones.’ The other three govern-
ments cannot agree to insertion of those
words, Their inclusion would mean that cer-
tain restrictions on communications between
Berlin and the western zones which began
long before currency reform took place in
western Germany would not be wholly re-
moved, However, as said before, the govern-
ments of France, the United Kingdom and
the United States are willing to settle as
between the Allied commanders in Berlin the
necessary regulations to prevent illicit black
market operations in currency, etc., between
the western and eastern zones of Germany
or between the western zone of Germany
and the western sectors of Berlin, which we
understood from Mr. Molotov to be a major
concern of the Soviet government,

“The Soviet draft also inserts at the end
of paragraph 1 the ‘words ‘in accordance
with the present agreements.’ which are not
included in paragraph 2, Our governments
are unable to accept these words which imply
a new agreement is now being made dero-
gatory to or possibly even invalidating esta-
blished rights of the French, British and
American governments in regard to Berlin.
These rights were clearly set forth in the
oral statement made tg, Generalissimo Stalin
and Mr. Molotov on Aug. 2 and have been
reiterated emphatically at our subsequent
conferences. Our governments are not
Prepared to make any new agreement now
which might be held in any way to weaken
these rights.

“2, It is clearly the intention of ail four
governments that paragraphs 1 and 2 should
be uniform in so far as possible. Accordingly
our governments consider that the words
‘after the announcement of currency reform
in the western zones’ should also be deleted
from paragraph 2 although we are unaware
of any restrictions placed on interzonal trade
before currency reform was introduced in
the western zones.

“3. Our governments are not in any
circumstances prepared to agree to the
additional subparagraph inserted by the

Soviet government. As they understand the
position, it is that Generalissimo Stalin made
an oral statement regarding the insistent
desire of the Soviet government for de-
ferment of the physical establishment of a
west German government, In reply I made
an oral statement on behalf of the United
States government with which the repre-
sentatives of the French and British govern-
ments associated themselves, and _ this
statement went as far as possible to meet
the generalissimo's oral statement. The
generalissimo exptessly declared that this
statement was not a condition for issuance
of the joint statement now under discussion
in Moscow. The statements made on the one
hand by the generalissimo and on the other
hand by the British, French and American
representatives were made privately but have
been recorded. Our governments cannot
agree to any statement on this matter being
inserted in a published communique repre-
senting preliminary agreement by our four
governments nor are they prepared to accept
any suggestion that negotiations have taken
place on this subject. As we stated very
clearly in the original conference with Stalin
and yourself at the outset of our con-
versations, our governments are only
prepared to undertake negotiations in an
atmosphere free of all pressure and cannot
accept any position which carries implication
of negotiating under duress.

“4, While the principle implied in the first
sub-paragraph is acceptable, the paragraph as

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
written in the Soviet draft is unacceptable
for reasons given to Mr. Molotov on Aug. 9.
Our governments consider that the redraft
proposed by the Soviet government involves
a fundamental question of principle. They
can only interpret the wording of this para-
graph in the Soviet draft as implying a
Soviet intention to incorporate Berlin fully
into the Soviet Zone. The position of our
respective governments on this question
and its essential connection with four-power
discussions on Germany as whole have been
stated on several different occasions during
our earlier conversations and need not be
repeated now. Consequently, while prepared
to accept substitution of the Soviet Zone
mark for the western mark as the sole cur-
rency for Berlin, such acceptance is possible
only if some four-power regulation of the
flow and use of the Soviet currency in Berlin
proper is provided which safeguards the
tights and interests of our three governments
in Berlin and the legitimate interests of the
Berlin population, while taking fully into
account as explained in our previous meet-
ing, the legitimate interests of the Soviet
occupation authorities, and their responsibili-
ties for safeguarding the economic situation
in the Soviet Zone, which we fully recognize.
In the opinion of our governments the Soviet
draft of paragraph 4 completely fails to take
into account these basic considerations, which
are concerned not only with fundamental
issues of principle but also with essential
and practical issues of daily economic life
in Berlin, I repeat that while ready to
consider and assist in a practical solution
of the currency problem in Berlin on a basis
of sole use of Soviet currency, our govern-
ments can only do so if the Soviet govern-
ment is prepared to recognize our basic
rights in Berlin. This is really the crux of
the matter, but I will mention further details.

"Aside from these fundamental questions
of principle, clarification is required of the
phrase in sub-paragraph 2 concerning ‘dis-
crimination against any part of Berlin’, We
think our intentions are the same. In the
draft we submitted on Aug. 6 this phrase
read ‘no action or discrimination against the
holders of eastern or western zone currency’.
If, as we assume, the Soviet draft covers
discrimination not only against any part of
Berlin but against all persons, firms, etc.,
resident in any part of Berlin, this corres-
ponds to our own intention and in that case
our governments suggest that the phrase in
the Aug, 6 draft would be clearer,

“Then we come to trading agencies, This
brings us back to our fundamental point.
‘We cannot recognize Berlin as part of Soviet
Zone, and it follows from this that we
cannot accept conduct of Berlin’s external
trade through the medium of Soviet Zone
trade monopolies. Our governments have a
substantial interest in the city and in seeking
agreement on regulation of trade matters,
we are asking for no more than assurances
concerning proper and effective use of our
very extensive contributions to the economy
of Berlin, The economic well-being of Berlin
depends on maximum freedom of its trade
with other parts of Germany. This confirms
again, from our viewpoint, the necessity of
technical discussions in Berlin and the impos-
sibility of such discussions among us here. In
the interest of simplification and to obviate a
currency war our governments are willing
to accept the Soviet mark as sole circulating
medium but I must say again that four-power
supervision of its use in Berlin is essential
to establish satisfactory economic relation-
ship between Berlin and the rest of Germany.
It is possible that Molotov misunderstood the
wording in our draft: ‘For the issue and
control of currency in Berlin. We do not
insist on control over the total issuance of
Soviet Zone currency, What we are seeking
is agreement for quadripartite regulation of
the flow and use of Soviet Zone currency
within Berlin and in trade. Our governments
are convinced it is necessary to provide for
non-discrimination as to availability of cur-
rency throughout Berlin through equitable
budgetary and credit procedures and the
orderly conduct of trade between Berlin on
one hand and the western and eastern zones

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and third countries on the other, This can
only be done by some quadripartite authority
in Berlin,

“While our governments consider the
question of occupation costs a pertinent one,
they do not believe the Soviet proposal in
sub-paragraph four of paragraph four is best
adapted for this purpose. The Soviet draft
implies that the British, French and Ame-
rican governments have no right to claim
occupation costs in or from Berlin. Our
governments cannot accept this position and
they maintain thein rights to call on the
Berlin Magistrat to meet such charges, and
are not prepared to obtain what is their
fully established right from sources under
the control of another power. Our govern.
ments have for a long time past been con-
tributing largely to the supply of Berlin with
food and coal with no appreciable reim-
bursement and they see no Treason why
Berlin, which is part of Germany, should
not bear its due share of the occupation
costs, particularly since the heavy costs. of
the Soviet occupation forces in Germany
are, according to the Soviet proposal, to be
borne by the Soviet Zone surrounding Berlin.
This question might be dealt with as pro-
Posed in our draft of Aug. 6 or postponed
for discussion at the time when the Four-
Powers meet to discuss the question of
Berlin and Germany in all its aspects. I
must, however, emphasize that the view of
our governments on this question is one of

principle affecting their juridical rights in
Berlin.”
Mr. Molotow's reaction to this statement

wag summarized by Ambassador
follows:

Smith as

“Molotov’s reply was very cursory in
regard to the first two paragraphs. He
suggested words ‘in conformity with what is
set forth below’ as substitution for last phrase
of paragraph 1, and remarked that satisfactory
alternative wording could probably be found
which would more specifically define restric-
tions which were to be removed, in lieu of
the wording to which we objected in para-
graph 1 and 2. He then reverted to para-
graph 4. Today, however, he did not as on
previous occasions reject our position in
Berlin nor did he insist that quadripartite
control had lapsed nor maintain any demand
for the Soviet wording of this paragraph.

“His conversation seemed to me to be
generally exploratory, in order to determine
whether or not we had reached our definite
and final bargaining position. We continued
to press strongly the point that our entire
discussions really hinged on one basis factor
—our right to be in Berlin and to continue
quadripartite regulation and control of the
flow and use of the new currency when
introduced. Molotov never directly challenged
any of our statements in this connection. He
also readily admitted that certain practical
questions would have to be settled in Berlin.
The point to which he reverted most frequently
and on which he seemed to concentrate to-
day was the specific mention of a date on
which the currency change would'be made
and the restrictions lifted.

“Discussions of this subject became involved
and protracted and finally, to bring matters
to a head, we suggested the possibility that
a tentative date be accepted toward which
planning would begin immediately in Berlin
by the four military commanders, pointing
out that until the machinery for the control
and use of the Soviet mark wag established
any date was meaningless, This subject also
Molotov did not directly challenge or reject,
although he criticized it as vague. It was
our opinion that at the least he willfully mis-
understood fit.

“Molctov then discussed occupation costo
briefly, taking the attitude that he could not
see any reason in our objection to the Soviet
formula or the exempting Berlin from cost of
occupation since all four powers were treated
alike. An interesting feature of this phase
of the discussion was that again he failed
to challenge our juridical right, stating that
Soviet proposals in this matter did not affect
juridical rights of either side to be in Berlin,

38

and that the problem way purely a pra
one. We took note of this. Practical

“Our final statement was that the solution of
the question of occupation costs was dependent
on solution of the basic question which re.
mained to be dealt with in the first part of
that paragraph. This brought us back to the
question of currency, and after lengthy discus.
sion Molotgv suggested as an alternate solution
that the Soviet government might be willing
to agree to the issue of the game quantity
of Soviet Zone marks for the western sectors
of Berlin as have been issued or introduced
in Berlin by western powers, arguing that
this would dispose of the technical question,
We rejected this on the ground that it did
not cover our basic requirement which was
quadripartite control of currency in Berlin,
and did not provide enough currency for our
present and future operations. "

“After this Molotov again came back to the
question of a fixed date for the introduction
of Soviet currency in Berlin and the lifting
of traffic restrictions, and proposed that we
draw up a list of questions relating to the
flow of currency to be discussed by the
representatives of the Soviet Union and
western powers in Berlin. We replied that we
would be perfectly willing to accept a
tentative date and in fact proposed such
discussion, but that the commanders in Berlin
must be provided with terms of reference
which covered the basic points on which we
insisted, and the technical pointy which we
felt must be settled with regard to new
currency, There was still outstanding the
major question of four-power control tin Ber-
lin and until this was decided, nothing could
be done. We said it would be worse to fix
a date and fail to meet it than to leave
things as they are now.

“We than asked Molotov if he could meet
us on the question of four-power regulation
of currency. He evaded direct reply to this
by reverting to the second part of paragraph
3 (London Agreements) although not aggres-
sively. We repeated our governments’ past
objection to the Soviet wording on the lines
of paragraph 3 in the following telegram. He
then suggested substituting for the second
part of paragraph 3 our oral statement of
Aug. 6. We reiterated that our instructions
were specific and our governments could not
agree to any statements of this nature being
inserted in a communique representing
preliminary agreement. However, I said I was
willing to ask my government if the oral
exchange between Generalissimo Stalin and
ourselves might be confirmed confidentially
by written notes, providing agreement way
reached on all other points.

“Roberts then suggested that insertion of
this material would unbalance the document,
pointing out that articles I and II were to
our mutual advantage, and insofar as the
Soviet Government might think part I bene-
fitted us more than part II benefitted them,
this was more than balanced by paragraph 4.
Paragraph 3 would, we hoped, be to our
mutual advantage. Molotov agreed, and at
this point for a few minutes I thought that
he way going to accept and conclude the
conference,

“However, he tecovered himself and re-
discussed some of the parts of paragraph 4,
during which occasion was taken to point
out that he would have to meet us on the
basic point of principle under 4 if we were
even to consider his proposal under 3,
emphasizing again that unless our basic
requirement for four-power control and tegula-
tion of currency in Berlin were accepted, the
rest of the document would automatically
fall.

“Molotov terminated the _ conversation
shortly afterward by saying that he would
report our statements to his government,
who would consider them carefully. We said
we would report his comments and proposals
and would inform him when we were ready
for further discussions."

Though failing to produce definitive progress
toward final agreement, the atmosphere of the
Aug. 12 meeting was sufficiently encouraging

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 42 ---
to induce tne western powers to examine
exhaustevely among themselves the issues in
controversy, and to reduce their demands to
Spsolute essentials in the hope that Soviet
Spjections would be overcome. These efforts
fesulted in the following draft text which was
resented to Molotov at the fourth and last
drafting meeting, that of Aug, 17:

“One. On Aug. 25 all restrictions which
have been imposed since March 1 on trans-
Pp of persons and goods in either direction
petween the three western zones of Germany
and Berlin shall be removed and freedom of
communications shall be maintained.

“Two, On Aug, 25 all restrictions which
have been imposed since March 1 on traffic
of goods to and from the Soviet Zone of
Germany shall be removed and freedom of
communications shall be maintained.

“Three. The four military governors are
charged with the duty of making all arrange-
fnents necessary to ensure that the provisions
of paragraphs one and two above are brought
into effect on Aug, 25.

“Four. In addition to meetings of military
governors meetings among representatives of
four governments in the form of CFM or other
conferences of representatives of four powers
Shall be held in the near future to discuss: (A)
Any questions which may be outstanding as
regards Berlin and (B) any other outstanding
problems affecting Germany as a whole.

"Five. As from Aug. 25 the German mark
of the Soviet Zone shall be accepted as the
sole currency for Berlin and the western mark
"Bp shall be simultaneously withdrawn from
circulation in Berlin provided however that
before that date the four military governors
shall have worked out arrangements for con-
tinued issue and use in Berlin under quadri-
partite authority, of the German mark of the
Soviet Zone.

"The arrangements shall ensure no dis-
crimination or action against holders of Ger-
man marks of either the Soviet Zone or
western zones; equal treatment as to currency
and provision of full and accessible banking
and credit facilities throughout all sectors of
Berlin; unhampered trade and eccnomic con-
nections with third countries and with ell
zones of Germany subject only to such pro-
visions as may be agreed from time to time
among four military governors; and provision
of sufficient currency for budgetary purposes
and occupation costs. These arrangements
shall be implemented by the four military
governors.’

This latest redraft was received by Mr.
Molotov in much the same way as the first
draft, The western representatives discussed
it with him for nearly four hours. His
Teaction to it appeared to be mainly ex-
Ploratory, to try to sound out the western
Tepresentatives,

After a lengthy dicussion of specific
Points in it, much along the lines of the
earlier discussions, Smith and his colleagues
Were unable to convince Molotov that their
draft met his requirements. Breaking off
the discussion of particular points, Molotov
Suddenly suggested that he could provide a
simple formula to deal with paragraphs 1,
2 and 5, and that the other paragraphs could
be left for later discussion as being rela-
tively unimportant. He than wrote down end
‘ho out the following proposed directive to
@ military governors in Berlin:
aie Governments of France, Great Bri-

in, US and USSR have agreed that the

followin, i
cously. 9 St@PS should be taken simultan-

“(A). Restrictions recently imposed on both
sides on communications between Berlin and
the western zones shall be lifted;

“(B). The German mark of the Soviet Zone
shall be introduced as the sole currency for
Berlin, and the western mark ‘B’ shall be
withdrawn from circulation in Berlin.

“In connection with the above you are
instructed to examine, together with your
colleagues, within the shortest time possible
and if possible before Aug. 25, the detailed
arrangements necessary for the implemen-
tation of this agreement and to inform your
government of the exact date on which
provisions under ‘A’ and ‘B’ above can be
brought into effect."*

As the discussion had already gone on for
more than two hours, and Molotov showed
no disposition to give serious consideration
to accepting the draft proposed by Smith and
his colleagues, they stated that they would
be willing to submit his new proposal to their
governments but that it would serve no use-
ful purpose to do so unless the directive he
suggested were completed by adding an ad-
ditional paragraph covering all the points in
the second part of their draft paragraph 5
which their governments consider the absolute
minimum that could be accepted in the way
of a directive to the four military governors.

Molotov argued against this, taking the
line, contrary to his previous position, that
the military governors in Berlin might very
well be able to work out practical solutions of
the technical problems without specific in-
structions. Smith pointed out that this would
simply transfer the unsolved problems from
Moscow to Berlin, with even less hope of a
solution in the absence of agreement in Mos-
cow on the two or three basic issues which
still remain unsettled. He then agreed to go
through the western draft together with the
Soviet draft to see whether it would be
possible to bring them into conformity and
set down principles under which the four mili-
tary governors could work.

Further discussion of details again and
again brought the western representatives
face to face with a point of principle on
which they had to repeat their position,
reminding Mr. Molotov that while their go-
vernments were willing to accept Soviet cur-
rency as the sole currency in Berlin, they
would not be willing to accept terms for the
use of that currency which would endanger
the financial and economic life of the city.

Smith repeated that it was quite useless to
send any directive to the military governors
unless there was agreement in Moscow on the
basic issues. It would be equally useless to
propose a vague and undefined directive .to
the three military governors which would still
be obliged obtain answers to the basic
questions they had already raised. He repeated
that there was no point in simply transferring
to Berlin problems which it had not been
possible to solve in Moscow through direct
contact with Mr. Molotov.

The meeting was finally adjourned with
Smith and his colleagues recording their dis-
appointment at the lack of progress. Smith

suggested that they study and report the
results of the meeting to their governments
in case they should have any final instruc-
tions or additional guidance. He said he
would then ask for a final conference.

Second Meeting with Stalin Aug. 23.

After considering the fruitless series of
drafting meetings with Molotov, the three
governments then decided to request another
meeting with Stalin, This was held on Aug. 23.

In preparation for it the three govern-
ments had agreed upon a new draft to put
befere Stalin, embodying the points discussed
in the first meeting with him, and taking into
account the points raised meanwhile by Mo-
lotov in so far as these could be harmonized
with the rights and duties of the western
occupation forces in Berlin. This draft took
the form of a directive to the military gover-
nors in Berlin to work out the concrete means
for implementing the principles with respect
to currency and transport restrictions, to-
gether with a communique to be issued by the
Moscow conferees on behalf of the four go-
vernments, finalizing the arrangements wor-
ked out by the military governors.

Stalin began the meeting by producing a
Soviet draft for this purpose which he said
he had prepared after studying the reports
of the drafting meetings with Molotov. Smith
then produced the draft just mentioned, sug-
gesting that Stalin read it while the western
representatives were reading the Soviet draft.
Following a general discussion of the two
drafts, Stalin withdrew from the meeting and
Molotov and the western representatives con-
tinued in drafting session to try to harmo-
nize the two drafts.

During the discussion with Stalin, he and
the western representatives noted that the
two drafts were in many respects close to
each other. Stalin thought, however, that the
directive to the commanders should contain
more concrete wording with regard to safe-
guarding the Soviet zone currency from de-
preciation. Smith pointed out that this point
‘was covered in ahe western draft. Stalin re-
plied that it should be made more explicit.
He also discussed the provision for the ex-
change of currency, and for the issue of cur-
rency thereafter by the German bank of issue
of the Soviet zone and for the establishment
for these purposes of a financial commission
composed of the four commanders to control
their practical implementation, He considered
these points essential, He then added that
it would also be desirable to have some
indication in the draft of a postponement of
the establishment of a western German go-
vernment on the basis of the London de-
cisions. On this point the western represen-
tatives rested on the position which had
already been made clear.

Smith then again reiterated the necessity
for managing currency matters in Berlin on
a basis which would provide absolute equal-
ity of control and would respect the juridical
position of the western governments in
Berlin. Stalin replied that if German unity
were restored by confirming the decisions of
previous four-power conferences, Berlin would

Elbe River crossing near Magdeburg, Soviet Zone, scene of early motor
traffic difficulties before the Soviet authorities completely closed the
land corridor between Helmstedt (British Zone) and Berlin. (left) Tem-
porary span with wreckage of war-destroyed highway bridge in back-
ground, (right) Ferry, ten miles away, carrying two Berlinsbound buses
of the CCG(BE).

(US Army Signal Corps photos)

--- Page 43 ---
remain the capital of Germany and then there
would be no objection to the Forces and
authority of the three western powers re-
maining in Berlin and sharing the control
of the German government in Berlin with the
Soviet Union. If this did not happen, then
Berlin would lose its standing at the capital
of Germany.

Smith expressed the hope that such a
situation would not arise and took occasion
again to explain fully our view of the
juridical position of the westem powers in
Berlin. It was decided that drafting details
should be worked out with Molotov with a
view to finding a final wording for a
directive to the military governors in Berlin,
Tequesting them to report back their recom-
mendations within about a week after the
directive was issued to them.

Before Stalin withdrew, Ambassador Smith
specifically took occasion to bring out clearly
certain questions on which he wanted to get
an unequivocal clarification of the Soviet
position. With respect to transport restric-
tions, it is worth quoting the following
excerpt from the transcript of the meeting of
Aug. 23 in Moscow:

“The US Ambassador then asked if he
could first query one or two points, for
example, the Soviet wording with regard to
the transport restrictions, Molotov remarked,
after a certain amount of discussion, that the
Soviet government meant the restictions
imposed since the 18th of June, We in-
dicated that this was un-
satisfactory. Stalin then sug-
gested that it might be better
to say ‘the restrictions lately
imposed, and confirmed that if
there were any imposed before
that date they would also be
lifted.”

It was with this understanding, personally
confirmed by Premier Stalin, that’ a directive
was ultimately sent to the military go-
vernors in Berlin to work out the technical
arrangements necessary to give effect to the
above agreement.

The principle of quadripartite supervision
over the currency within the city of Berlin
was an important issue in the discussion at
Moscow. On this point Premier Stalin, dur-
ing the discussion, gave the following con-
firmation of the interpretation to be placed
on the language of the directive dealing with
the power of the financical committee:

"Stalin stated that the German bank of
emission controlled the flow of currency
throughout the whole of the Soviet Zone,
and it was impossible to exclude Berlin from
the Soviet Zone. However, if the
question was asked whether it
did so without being controlled
itself, the answer was ‘no.’ Such
control would be provided by
the Financial Commission and
by the four commanders in Ber-
lin, who would work out the
arrangements connected mith

the exchange of the currency
and with the control of the
provision of cunrency, and

would supervise what the bank
was doing.”

"Stalin said the Soviet draft had kept the
word ‘control’ with reference to the four-
power-finance committee and the Soviet
government did not object to it. But from
the point of view of financial science and
political economy, it was impossible to
exclude the German bank of emission from
Berlin. To avoid abuse in its operations, the
word ‘control’ had been included. The US
Ambassador then suggested that the mention
of regulation by the German bank of emission
should be made after the financical com-
mission. Stalin replied that the
subjects had been mentioned
inthe logicalorderandthat the
authority conducting the oper-
ations had been mentioned
first and afterwards the body
controlling this authonity had
been mentioned.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

It was on this clear understanding of these
points that Smith und his colleagues con-
tinued the discussion and drafting.

Stalin expressed persistent interest in
having something said about the London
decisions, He suggested insertion of the fol-
lowing or some similar wording:

"The question of the London decision was
also discussed including the formation of a
western German government, The discussion
took place in an atmosphere of mutual
understanding."

Smith said he would inform his government
of Stalin's desire but did not anticipate that
his government could accede to any such
wording unless it were also made explicit
that no agreement was reached on this sub-
ject since it was not considered a condition
attaching to the lifting of transport re-
strictions,

The ensuing drafting meeting with Molotov
elaborated a joint draft which was then sub-
mitted to the government for consideration.

The United States Gorvernment, in express-
ing its views to Ambassador Smith, took
occasion among other things to corroborate
Smith’s own view that a provision such as
Stalin desired with respect to western
Germany would be open to misinterpretation
and, therefore, could not be accepted. Any
such provision should make clear that we do
not refuse to discuss this point at some
subsequent time but are not prepared to make
any commitments whatsoever for post-
ponement of the London decisions in con-
nection with the present negotations, Smith
was instructed to make this clear to the
Soviet authorities and to agree at most to
a statement that:

"During the conversations the Soviet go-
vernment expressed its wish that the
implementation of the decisions of the Lon-
don conference should not result in the
establishment of a government for western
Germany before the representatives of the
four powers hat been able to meet to discuss
the whole German problem, The represent-
atives of the United States, the United Kings-
dom and France affirmed the desire of their
governments for a four-power agreement
whereby a government for the whole of
Germany would be established. They ex-
plained that the London decisions did not
preclude such an agreement and, while they
were not able to agree to any postponement
to the implementation of the London de-
cisions, they would make a sincere endeaver
to ascertain whether there is a real prospect
of agreement among the four powers, Further
discussion of this point ‘was accordingly
deferred."

In framing its further instructions to Am-
bassador Smith, this government proceeded
from the following basic requirements, upon
which it had insisted from the beginning:

(1) Insistence on our co--equal rights to be
in Berlin;

(2) No abandonment of our position with
Tespect to western Germany;

(3) Unequivocal lifting to the blockade on
communications, transport and commerce
for goods and’ persons; and

(4) Adequate quadripartite control of the
issue and continued use in Berlin of the
Soviet mark,

After the three governments had consulted
each other and instructed their respective
representatives in Moscow, the latter met
with Molotov and Vishinsky on Aug, 27 and
worked out the following drafts for the com-
munique and directive under discussion:

“Communique

‘The Governments of France, the United
Kingdom, the United States and the USSR
have agreed that the following measures under
(A) and (B) shall be put into effect simul-
taneously, and have approved detailed arran-
gements for their implementation jointly wor-
ked out by the four military governors.

40

“(A) The restrictions which have recent,
been imposed on communications,  trangetY
and commerce between Berlin and the wesret
zones and between the various zones of Get
many shall be lifted, and freedom of cor.
munications, transport and commerce shall be
maintained. i

“(B) The German mark of the Soviet Zone
shall be accepted, on the basis agreed bet,
ween the four military governors, as the sole
currency for Berlin and the Western mark ‘B*
shall be simultaneously withdrawn from circy.
lation in Berlin.

“The four governments have also agreed
that in addition to meetings of the four mili.
tary governors, meetings among representa.
tives of the four governments in the form of
the Council of Foreign Ministers or other
conferences of representatives of the four
powers shall be held in the near future to
discuss:

“(1) Any outstanding questions regarding
Berlin and (2) any other outstanding problems
affecting Germany as a whole.”

“Directive

“The governments of France, the United
Kingdown, the United States, and the USSR
have decided that, subject to agreement being
reached among the four military governors
in Berlin for their practical implementation,
the following steps shall be taken simult.
aneously:

"(A) Restrictions on communication, trans-
port and commerce between Betlin and the
western zones and to and from the Soviet
zone of Germany which have recently been
imposed shall be lifted;

““(B) The German mark of the Soviet zone
shall be introduced as the sole currency for
Berlin, and the western mark B shall be
withdrawn from circulation in Berlin.

“In connection with the above you are in-
structed to consult together with your cof-
leagues so as to make, in the shortest time
possible, the detailed arrangements necessary
for the implementation of these decisions, and
to inform your government not later than
September 4 of the results of your discussions,
including the exact date on which the measures
under (A) and (B) above can be brought into
effect. The four military governors will work
out arrangements involved in the introduction
of the German mark of the Soviet Zone in
Berlin.

“The arrangements relating to the currency
changeover and to the continued provision
and use in Berlin of the German mark of
the Soviet Zone shall ensure:

“(a) No discrimination or action against
holders of western marks B in connection
with the exchange of those western marks
issued in Berlin, These shall be accepted for
exchange for German marks of the Soviet
Zone at the rate of one for one;

(b) Equal treatment as to currency and
provision of fully accessible banking and
credit facilities throughout all sectors of
Berlin, The four military governors are charged
with ‘providing adequate safequards to pre-
vent the use in Berlin of the German mark
of the Soviet Zone from leading to. disorga-
nizing currency circulation or disrupting the
stability of currency in the Soviet Zone;

"\(c) A satisfactory basis for trade be
tween Berlin and third countries and the
western zones of Germany. Modification of
this agreed basis to be made only by agree
ment among the four military governors;

“(d) The provision of sufficient cumency
for budgetary purposes and for occupation
costs, reduced to the greatest extent possible,
and also the balancing of the Berlin budget.

"The regulation of currency circulation 1a
Berlin is to be untertaken by the "
bank of emission of the Soviet Zone throud
the medium of the credit establishments
operating at, present in Berlin.

“A financial commission of representatives
of the four military governors shafl be 8@
up to contro! the practical implementation ©
the financial arrangements indicated above

OCTOBER 19, 1988

--- Page 44 ---
involved in the introduction and continued
circulation of a single currency in Berlin."

During this discussion, as during previous
ones Molotov endeavored again, without
success, to insert some provision into the
communique that would tie the hands of the
western governments with respect to the
fondon decisions. The most noteworthy
feature of this particular conversation was
that he geversed completely his former po-
sition that details about the currency should
pe settled and agreed in Moscow before any
reference to the military governors in Berlin.

After a final review by the several govern-
ments it was arranged with Molotov on
‘Aug. 30 that the directive to the military go-
vernors be dispatched to them by midnight
calling for a report front them by Sept. 7.

Although the directive was finally agreed
and sent, it was not possible to reach final
agreement on the ultimate draft communique,
because Molotov still insisted on a final
paragraph concerning the London decisions.

Smith told him that regardless of the finally
agreed text, when the communique was made
public we would be obliged to publish a
statement that the agreement represented by
it was entered into without prejudice to the
co-equal rights, duties and obligations of the
western occupying powers in Berlin. Molotov’s
reply to this was that the position of the
Soviet government was well known and that
it would undoubtedly make a similar public
reservation,

The attitude of the Soviet representatives at
this Aug. 27 conference was less pleasant than
hitherto. The western representatives referred
to the disturbed situation in Berlin and pointed
out the desirability of maintaining a peaceful
atnfosphere during the deliberations of the mili-
tary governors. Molotov declined to pursue
the matter further, stating that the Soviet
military governor already had his instructions.
It was impossible to issue any interim commu-
nique to inform the public that technical
questions were being referred to Berlin be-
cause Molotov refused to agree to any text
for it except in his own terms.

He tried to extend the period for discussion
in Berlin to Sept. 10, being reluctant to agree
to limit the discussions to one week ending
Sept. 7.

The directive finally dispatched to the mili-
tary governors was one on which it might be
possible to work out a solution of the tech-
nical details if the Soviet authorities did in
fact wish to settle the Berlin crisis, Whether
this was so remained to be seen during the
course of the discussions in Berlin.

Technical Discussions in Berlin

On Aug. 31 the four commanders and their
staffs met for the first time to work out,
under instructions from their governments,
the implementation of the directive. They
continued these meetings daily throughout
the week allotted for the Berlin discussions.

It soon became apparent that Marshal So-
kolovsky was not ready to honor the under-
standings reached in Moscow. During the
course of the meetings it was evident that
he was seeking to increase, rather than to
decrease, the restrictions on transport, and
also to eliminate any measure of quadripartite
control over the German bank of issue for the
Soviet Zone with respect to Berlin, and to
assert for the Soviet Military Authority sole
jurisdiction over the trade between Berlin and
the western zones of Germany as well as
third countries.

With respect to the transport restrictions,
Sokolovsky began by declaring that he would
agree to removal of only those restrictions
imposed after June 18, the date of the cur-
og tetorm. This position was taken in spite
a Stalin's categorical statement on Aug. 23

‘at under the final wording of the directive
eny restrictions imposed before that date
Would also be removed. Sokolvsky even
endeavored to discuss the imposition of new
tattictions on the existing air traffic. When

© western commanders sought to discuss

OCTOBER 19, 1948

freedom of passage for military trains, the
condition of the railroad tracks, and the
need of more paths, Sokolovsky began by de-
clining to discuss rail traffic unless the
western commanders would agree to discuss
the imposition of new restrictions on the
existing air traffic, General Clay and his
colleagues refused to do this, pointing out
that the directive referred only to the re-
moval of existing restrictions, not to the im-
position of new ones. In justifying his ad-
herence to the date of June 18, Sokolovsky
argued that since traffic restrictions were
being removed in exchange for the currency
provisions of the directive, the latter must
refer only to traffic restrictions imposed after
the western currency reform of June 18; he
went on to say that traffic restrictions im-
posed before that date were connected with
the London conference. He later receded from
his initial position on this point, but con-
tinued to try to put new limitations on the
existing air traffic.

With respect to the provisions of the direc-
tive concerning the currency itself, Soko-
lovsky took the position (despite the clear
understanding confirmed by Stalin in Moscow),
that the proposed four-power financial com-
mission should have no authority whatever to
control the operations of the German bank
of issue with respect to Berlin.

Yet without such authority over the inst-
itution issuing, and promulgating regulations
concerning, the currency of Berlin it is ob-
vious that the financial commission would
have been quite incapable of discharging the
function assigned to it in the directive, i. e.
controlling the practical implememtation of
the financial arrangements involved in the
introduction and continued circulation of a
single currency in Berlin. Sokolovsky's re-
pudiation of the understanding reached on this
point with Stalin in Moscow was sufficient
in itself to frustrate any agreement upon
genuine quadripartite administration of the
currency of Berlin, quite aside from other
differences which arose concerning the de-
tailed financial arrangements for Berlin.

With respect to trade arrangements between
Berlin and the western zones of Germany
and third countries, Sokolovsky asserted for
the Soviet authorities the exclusive right to
control such trade. This claim obviously
contradicted the clear meaning of the agreed
directive to the four military governors, and
in no way constituted a reasonable approach
to the problem of working out a mutually
“satisfactory basis’’ for the trade of Berlin.

Marshal Sokolovsky in Berlin thus took a
position contrary to the explicit assurances
given by Stalin in Moscow, with respect to
transport restrictions, currency and trade.
Moreover, he manifested increasingly an
attitude of indifference about the progress or
failure of the negotiations.

The week of technical discussion in Berlin
thus proved even more futile and frustrat-
ing than the month of negotiations in Moscow.

The military governors were unable to sub-
mit an agreed report; Marshal Sokolovsky
remarked that there was nothing to report.

A New Aide Memoire

The three governments therefore instructed
their representatives in Moscow to deliver the
following aide memoire to Stalin and Molotov:

"1, The governments of France, the United
Kingdom and the United States’ having re-
ceived and studied reports from their military
governors .of the discussions in Berlin find it
necessary to draw the attention of the Soviet
government to the fact that the position ad-
opted by the Soviet military governor during
the meetings in Berlin on a number of points
deviate from the principles agreed at Moscow
between the four governments and contained
in the agreed directive to the four military
governors. As the Soviet government is aware,
the terms of this directive were finally agreed
after long and careful consideration, and after
clarifications as to interpretation had been
eceived from the Soviet government.

41

“2, The specific issues on which in the
opinion of the governments of France, the
United Kingdom and the United States, the
Soviet military governor has departed | from
the understandings reached at Moscow relate
to: (1) restrictions on communications, trans-
port and commerce between Berlin and the
western zones; (2) the authority and functions
of the financial comission, and in particular
its relation to the German bank of emission;
and (3) the control of the trade of Berlin.

"3, As to the first, the Soviet military
governor has presented a proposal which falls
outside the agreed principle that the restric-
tions, transport and commerce be lifted. He
has proposed that restrictions upon air traffic,
not heretofore existing, should now be im-
posed, and in particular that air traffic to Ber-
lin should be strictly limited to that neces-
sary to meet the needs of the military forces
of occupation,

“4, As the Soviet government is aware, the
directive makes no mention of air transport
and this question was not discussed at
Moscow. The directive reads: ‘Restrictions on
communications, transport, and commerce be-
tween Berlin and the western zones and to
and from the Soviet zone of Germany which
have recently been imposed shall be lifted.’
There have been and are no such restric-
tions on air traffic. The purpose of the di-
rective is to lift restrictions and not to impose
new ones. The proposal of the Soviet com-
mander-in-chief, therefore, falls outside the
scope of the present discussions and is un-
acceptable.

“5, Secondly, on the question of the
authority and functions of the financial commis-
sion there should be not the slightest grounds
for any misunderstanding. At the meeting on
Aug. 23 attended by Premier Stalin and Mr.
Molotov and the representatives of the gov-
ernments of France, the United Kingdom and
the United States, the intention of the di-
rective in regard to the powers of the financial
commission including its power to control the
operations in Berlin of the German bank of
emission was clearly and specifically con-
firmed by Premier Stalin. The Soviet military
governor has refused to accept both the me-
aning of the directive and the clear under-
standing of the four powers reached at
Moscow.

“6. Thirdly, there is the question of the
control of the trade of Berlin. The position
of the Soviet military governor during the
discussions in Berlin in regard to matters re-
lating to the control of trade between Berlin
and the western zones of Germany amounts
to a claim for exclusive Soviet authority over
such matters, Such a claim is a contradiction
of the spirit and meaning of the directive to
the four military governors to which the four
governments gave their approval and is the-
refore unacceptable.

“7, In bringing these major points of dif-
ference to the notice of the Soviet gov-
ernment, the government of the United States,
the United Kingdom and France do not wish
to imply that these are the only points of
difference which have arisen during the con-
versations in Berlin.

“8, The governments of France, the United
Kingdom and the United States have under-
stood clearly the principles agreed to in
Moscow and the assurances given by Prem'er
Stalin. Their military governors in Berlin have
acted in accordance with those principles and
assurances. The position taken by the Soviet

. military governor, on the contrary, has consti-

tuted a departure from what was agreed in
Moscow and strikes at the very foundation
upon which these discussions were under-
taken. The divergencies which have accordingly
arisen on these questions are so serious that
the governments of France, the United Kingdom
and the United States feel compelled to
inquire whether the Soviet government is
prepared to affirm the understandings outlined
herein and to issue the necessary instructions
to the Soviet military governor, confirming
the agreed intention of the directive in re-
gard to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
“(a) the lifting of all restrictions on com-
munications, transport and commerce. imposed
after March 30, 1948, without imposition of
any new air or other restrictions; and

“"(b) the control by the financial commission
of the financial arrangements contemplated
in the agreed directive, including control of
the operations of the bank of emission with
respect to Berlin as specifically confirmed
by Premier Stalin; and

"(c) a satisfactory basis for trade between
Berlin and_ third countries and the western
zones of Germany in accordance with an
agreement to be reached between the four
military governors which does not involve
the unilateral control of such trade by the
Soviet Trade Administration and which re-
cognizes the right of each of the occupying
powers to import in fulfillment of their
respective responsibilities, and to control the
proceeds from food and fuel imported for the
use of the Berlin population and industry.

“The believe that only if the steps pro-
posed in the aide memoire are taken would it
be possible for the military governors to con-
tinue their discussions.”

Return to Moscow
Stalin being out of town and unavailable,

this aide memoire was delivered to Mr.
Molotov by the three western envoys on
Sept. 14,

Molotov expressed the view that. progress
could be facilitated if, instead of an immedi-
ate exchange of communications at the gov-
vernment level, the military governors were
first to prepare an agreed report of their
discussions, and he proposed that they be
given two days to do this. The western
envoys pointed out that military governors
had already found it impossible to agree on
such a joint report. Molotov then reluctantly
agreed to submit the aide memoire to his
government for study and reply.

On Sept. 18, Mr. Molotov invited the
western envoys to the Kremlin and handed
them the Soviet government's reply, which
was likewise in the form of an aide memoire.
The text was as follows:

“1, The government of the USSR has
acquainted itself with the aide memoire, dated
Sept. 14 last, of the governments of France,
the United Kingdom and the US which gives
a unilateral account of the course of discus-
sions among the four military governors in
Berlin and which presents incorrectly the
position adopted by the Soviet military gov-
ernment during those dicussions.

“The Soviet government believes that con-
sideration of the difference referred to in the
said aide memoire, which arose during the
Berlin discussions in regard to the interpret-
ation of the directive to the military
governors, would have been facilitated and
expedited had the four military governors
submitted to their governments a joint report
with an account of the course of discussions,
In that event the discussions in Moscow
would not have been based on any unilateral
communications but on an accurate statement
of the positions adopted by all four military
governors, both on points already agreed
among them and on points left outstanding.
Since, however, the representatives of the
three governments have refused to follow that
method of discussion, the Soviet government
finds it necessary to reply to the questions
raised in the aide memoire.

“The aide memoire of Sept. 14 refers to
the following three questions: 1. restrictions
on communications, transport and commerce
between Berlin and’ the western zones; 2. the
authority and functions of the financial com-
mission, and in particular its relation to the
German bank of emission; 3, the control of
the trade of Berlin.

“At the same time it is asserted that the
Soviet military governor allegedly deviated
from the understanding reached on these
questions in Moscow.

“The Soviet government believes this assert-
ion to be without foundation, because during

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Berlin discusions the Soviet military gov-
ernor strictly followed the agreed directive
and the clarifications which had been given
by the Soviet government when it was being
drawn up in Moscow. Study by the Soviet
government of all materials relating to the
Berlin discussions has shown that the reason
for the differences which arose during the
Berlin discussions lies in the desire of the
US, the UK and the French military gov-
ernors to interpret the directive agreed upon
in Moscow in a unilateral manner, and to
give it an interpretation which had not been
implied when it was being drawn up and
which constitutes a violation of the directive,
and with this the Soviet government is unable
to agree.

“2-The directive to the four military gov-
emors states the following in regard to the
first question referred to in the aide memoire
of Sept. 14: ‘restrictions on communications,
transport and commerce between Berlin and
the western zones and on the traffic of goods
to and from the Soviet Zone of Germany
which have recently been imposed shall be
lifted."

“The concrete proposals submitted by the
Soviet military governor on this point are in
full conformity with the directive and have
for their purpose the lifting of all restrictions
on communications, transport and commerce,
which have been imposed after March 30, 1948,
as was stipulated when the directive was
drawn up. During consideration of this question
the Soviet military governor pointed to the
necessity of the other three military gov-
ernors complying strictly with the regulations
imposed by the Control Council's decision of
Nov. 30, 1945, on air traffic for the needs
of the occupation forces, and this had never
been disputed by any of the military gov-
ernors since the adoption of these regulations
three years ago.

There is no foundation whatsoever, for re-
garding this justified demand of the Soviet
military governor as an imposition of new
restrictions on air traffic, because these re-
gulations had been imposed, as far back as
1945, and not after March 30, 1948. Never-
theless, the USA has attempted to deny
the necessity of observing the regulations
which had been imposed by the Control
Council on air traffic of the occupation forces
and which remain in force to this very day.

“In view of the above, the Soviet gov-
emment believes that the position of the
Soviet military governor on this question is
absolutely correct, while the position of the
USA military governor, far from being based
on the agreed directive, is in contradiction
with it. An interpretation to the contrary
might lead to an arbitrary denial of any
decision previously agreed upon by the Con-
trol Council, and to this the Soviet gov-
ernment cannot give its assent.

“3.The directive to the military governors
also contains a clear statement regarding. the
authority and functions of the financial com-
mission and regarding the German bank of
emission:

“The arrangements relating to the currency
changeover and to the continued provision
and use in Berlin of the German mark of the
Soviet Zone shall ensure:

(A) No discrimination or action against
holders of western marks in connection with
the exchange of those western marks B issued
in Berlin. These shall be accepted for
exchange for German marks of the Soviet
Zone at the rate of 1 for 1.

(B) Equal treatment as to currency and
provision of fully accessible banking and
credit facilities throughout all ‘sectors of
Berlin. The four military governors are
charged with providing adequate safequards
disrupting the stability of currency in the
Soviet Zone of occupation.

““"(C)_A_ satisfactory basis for trade be-
tween Berlin and third countries and the
western zone of Germany. Modifications of
this agreed basis to be made only by agree-
ment among the four military governors;

42

““(D) The provision of sufficient cumenc
for budgetary purposes and for occupatio;
costs, reduced to the greatest extent possibie’
and also the balancing of the Berlin budget,

“'The regulation of currency circulation in
Berlin is to be undertaken by the German
bank of emission of the Soviet Zone through
the medium of the credit establishments
operating at present in Berlin.

“**A financial commission of representatives
of the four military governors shall be set
up to control the practical implementation of
the financial arrangements indicated above,
involved in the introduction and the circula!
tion of a single currency in Berlin,’

“This directive was drawn up in full con.
formity with the preliminary clarifications on
this matter made by Premier J. V. Stalin on
Aug. 23, and referred to in the above.
mentioned aide memoire.

“It will be seen from the above text that
the authority and functions of the financial
commission and of the German bank of emis-
sion are precisely laid down in the directive,
and it was by this that the Soviet military
governor was guided. According to that
directive and to the understanding reached in
Moscow by the four powers, the financial
commission should not exercise control over
all operations of the bank of emission in
regard in Berlin, but only over those opera-
tions of the bank of emission in Berlin which
ate specifically provided for in paragraphs
(A), (B), (C) and (D) of the directive. The
proposal to establish control of the financial
commission over the whole activity of the
German bank of emission in Berlin was not
accepted during the discussion of this ques-
tion in Moscow because this would have led
to such interference on the part of the
financial commission in matters of the requla-
tion of currency circulation as is incom-
patible with the Soviet administration's
responsibilty for the regulation of currency
circulation in the Soviet Zone of occupation,

“Accordingly, the Soviet government cannot
agree to the incorrect interpretation of the
agreed directive given in the aide memoire
of the governments of France, the UK and
the USA and believes it necessary that the
directive should be strictly followed.

“4—As to trade, the previously agreed
directive is confined to an instruction to the
military governors to work out as_satis-
factory basis for trade between Berlin and
third countries and the western zones of
Germany. It will be recalled that on Aug. 23
during the discussions in Moscow, the Soviet
qovernment submitted a definite proposal on
this subject, but the question was not
considered in detail and was referred to the
military governors for discussion.

“The proposals on this subject made by the
Soviet military governor give no reason to
assert that they are a contradiction of the
spirit and meaning of the agreed directive. On
the contrary, the intention of those proposals
is to have the directive fulfilled in accordance
with the agreements reached in,Moscow.

“However, for the purpose of expediting the
drawing up of practical arrangements in
Berlim, the Soviet government proposes that
the military governors be given more detailed
instructions on this matter than those  con-
tained in the agreed directive. The Soviet
government agrees to have trade between
Berlin and third countries and the western
zones of Germany placed under the control
of the quadripartite financial commission .
which control should provide at the same
time for the maintenance of the existing
procedure gegatding the traffic of goods in
and out of Berlin under license of the Soviet
military administration, The Soviet gov-
ernment believes that such an instruction
would be of help in the drawing UP de
a concrete agreement on matters of trade
with Berlin.

“5—The Soviet government believes that
discussions between the military govemors
in Berlin can yield positive resuits only 10
the event that all the military governo!
follow strictly the directives and instructions
agreed between the governments of France
the UK, the USA and the USSR.”

The western envoys, after reading this
document, stated that they would submit it

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 46 ---
US NOTE TO UN SECURITY COUNCIL

The United States charged — the
soviet Union with action in the Ber-
lin situation constituting a threat to
the peace under the meaning of the
UN Charter, and requested the UN
security Council consider the case as
soon as possible,

The US request, signed by Warren
Austin, permanent delegate to United
Nations, was sent to UN Secretary
General Trygve Lie Sept. 29 as
identical letters from Great Britain ond
France were also delivered. Follow-
ing is full text of US notification:

I have the honor on behalf of the
government of the United States of
America, in agreement with the go-
vernnents of the French Republic
and the United Kingdom, to draw
your attention to the serious situ-
ation which has arisen as the result
of the unilateral imposition by the
government of the USSR of res-
trictions on transport and communi-
cations between the western zones of
occupation in Germany and Berlin.

Quite apart from the fact that it
is in conflict with the rights of the
government of the USA and the go-
vernments of France and the United
Kingdom with regard to the occu-
pation and administration of Berlin,
this action by the Soviet government
is contrary to its obligations under
Article 2 of the Charter of the United
Nations and creates a threat to the
peace within the meaning of Chapter 7
of the Charter.

It is clear from the protracted ex-
change of notes and the conver-

‘ sations which have taken place on
the initiative of the. three govern-
ments between them and the Soviet
government that the three govern-
ments, conscious of their obligation

under the charter to settle their dis-
putes by peaceful means, have made
every effort to resolve their differ-
ences directly with the Soviet go-
vernment, Copies of these relevant
documents are submitted separately.

In particular, attention is drawn to
the summary of the situation which
is contained in the notes of the US
government and the governments of
France and the United Kingdom,
dated September 26-27, 1948, as
follows:

“The issue between the Soviet go-
vernment and the western occupying
powers is therefore not that of
technical difficulties in communicat-
ions nor that of reaching agreement
upon the conditions for the regu-
lation of the currency for Berlin. The
issue is that the Soviet government
has clearly shown by its actions that
it is attempting by illegal and
coercive measures in disregard of its
obligations to secure political ob-
jectives to which it is not entitled
and which it could not achieve by
peaceful means, It has resorted to
blockade measures; it has threatened
the Berlin population with  star-
vation, disease and economic ruin;
it has tolerated disorders and
attempted to overthrow the duly
elected municipal government of
Berlin.

“The attitude and conduct of the
Soviet government reveal sharply its
purpose to continue its illegal and
coercive blockade and its unlawful
actions designed to reduce the status
of the United States, the United King-
dom and France as occupying powers
in Berlin to one of complete subordi-
nation to Soviet rule, and thus to
obtain absolute authority over the

economic, political and social life of
the people of Berlin, and to incor-
porate the city in the Soviet Zone.

“The Soviet government has there-
by taken upon itself sole responsi-
bility for creating a situation in which
further recourse to the means of
settlement prescribed in Article 23 of
the Charter of the United Nations is
not, in existing circumstances, pos-
sible, and which constitutes a threat
to international peace and security.

“In order that international peace
and security may not be further
endangered the governments of the
United States, the United Kingdom
and France, therefore, while reserv-
ing to themselves full rights to take
such measures as may be necessary
to maintain in these circumstances
their position in Berlin, find them-
selves obliged to refer the action of
the Soviet government to the Security
Council of the United Nations.”

Accordingly, the government of the
United States requests that the Se-
curity Council consider this question
at the earliest opportunity,

The request was accompanied by
13 documents detailing the official
exchange as the western represen-
tatives, in Moscow and Berlin, tried
for nearly three months to settle the
Berlin matter by negotiations with
Soviet Union. The documents includ-
ed the final identical notes delivered
to Soviet ambassadors the previous
weekend by the US, British and
French governments, and also the
directive agreed to in Moscow. by
Soviet Premier Stalin and the western
envoys and sent to the four military
governors in Berlin, only to be dis-
regarded by Soviet military governor.

el governments for consideration, but
farned that it would scarcely be acceptable.

Note to Soviet Government of Sept. 22

After studying the reply just quoted, the
Embeccfovernments, delivered to the Soviet
on aeni°s,,in, Washington, London and Paris
fone 2's 22 identical third-person notes in the
cllowing text:

to 1~The government of the United States,
tear with the governments of France and
scusnited Kingdom, has now reviewed the
Beeesions which have taken place on the
 Sontuation and which have culminated in
memoovict, reply of Sept. 18 to the aide
194g oie of the three governments of Sept. 14,

OCTOBER 19, 1948

“2—The three governments find that the
Soviet unwillingness to accept previous
agreements, to which reference is made in
their aide memoire of Sept. 14, is still pre-
venting a settlement. The reply of the Soviet
government in its aide memoire of Sept. 18 is
unsatisfactory.

“3—The final position of the three govern-
ments on the specific points at issue is as
follows:

(a) They cannot accept the imposition of any
restrictions on air traffic between Berlin and
the western zones. -

(b) They insist that the finance com-
mission must control the actiyities of_ the
German bank of emission of the Soviet Zone
in so far as they relate to the financial

43

arrangements for the introduction and con-
tinued use of the Soviet Zone mark as the
sole currency in the city of Berlin.

(c) They insist that trade between Berlin
and the eastern zones and other countries
must be under quadripartite control, including
the issuance of licenses.

“4, After more than six weeks, of dis-
cussion ,the governments of the United States,
the United Kingdom and France feel that the
Soviet government is now fully acquainted
with the position of the three governments,
and that further discussions on the present
basis would be useless.

"S. It is clear that the difficulties that
have arisen in the attempts to arrive at
practical arrangements which would restore

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
normal conditions in Berlin derive not from
technical matters but from a fundamental
difference of views between the governments
of the United States, the United Kingdom and
France and the Soviet government as to the
rights and obligations of the occupying powers
in Berlin, their right to have access by air,
rail, water and road to Berlin and to parti-
cipate in the administration of the affairs of
the city of Berlin. The blockade imposed by
the Soviet authorities together with other of
their acts in Berlin are in violation of the
rights of the three western occupying powers.

“6. Accordingly, the government of the
United States, in agreement with the gov-
ermments of France and the United Kingdom,
asks the Soviet government whether, in order
to create conditions which would permit a
continuance of discussions, it is now prepared
to wemove the blockade measures, thus
restoring the right of the three western
occupying powers to free communications by
rail, water and road, and to specify the date
on which this will be done.

“7, The foreign mi

isters of the three gov-
ernments will be meeting shortly in Paris, and
they will be glad to have the reply of the
Soviet government as soon as possible.”

Soviet Reply of Sept. 25

In reply, on Sept. 25, 1948, the Soviet
government sent the following identical note
(unofficial translation) to the governments of
the United States, the United Kingdom and
France:

“The Ambassador of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics presents his compliments
to the acting secretary of state of tha United
States and has the honor, under instructions
of the Soviet government, to communicate the
following:

“1, The government of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics has acquainted itself with
the note of the government of the USA of
Sept. 22, 1948, concerning negotiations of the
four powers which have taken place in Mos-
cow and Berlin on the question of the in-
troduction of the German mark of the Soviet
Zone as the sole currency in Berlin and con.
cerning the removal of the restrictions on
communications, transport and trade between
Berlin and the western zones of Germany.

“In connection with this, the Soviet govern-
ment considers it necessary to declare that
the position taken by the government of the
USA not only does not facilitate, but on the
contrary complicates the reaching of agree-
ment concerning the settlement of the situation
which has arisen in Berlin as a result of carry-
ing out a separate currency reform and the
introduction of a separate currency in the
western zones of Germany and in the western
sectors of Berlin, which constituted an extreme
and most far-reaching measure in execution
of the policy of partitioning Germany being
carried out by the governments of the USA,
Great Britain and France.

“2, In its note the government of the USA
refers to three disputed questions which were
mentioned by the governments of the USA,
Great Britain and France in the aide memoire
of Sept 15 and by the government of the
USSR in the aide mfemoire of Sept. 18, 1948.

“The government of the United States of
America states that the continuation of the
negotiations on the above-mentioned questions
on the present basis would be useless and
considers that in order to create the condi-
tions which would permit a continuation of the
negotiations, there would have to be a remo-
val of the temporary transport restrictions be-
tween Berlin and the western zones which were
introduced by the Soviet command for the
purpose of protecting the interests of the Ger-
man population as well as the economy of the
Soviet zone of occupation and of Berlin itself.

“Such a statement of the government of the
USA is in direct conflict with the agreement
reached on Aug. 30 im Moscow among the four
governments (the directive to the Military
Governors), in which it was stated:

“The governntents of France, the United
Kingdom, the United States and the USSR
have decided that, subject to agreement being
reached among the four military governors in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Berlin for their practical implementation, the
following steps shall be taken simultaneously:

““*(A) Restriction on communications, trans-
port and commerce between Berlin and the
western zones, and also on the movement of
cargoes to and from the Soviet Zone of Ger-
many which have recently been imposed, shall
be lifted.

“(B) The German mark of the Soviet
Zone shall be introduced as the sole currency
for Berlin, and the western mark B shall be
withdrawn from circulation fn Berlin.

“From the text of the agreement cited
above it is evident that the four governments
agreed during the negotiations in Moscow
on the simultaneous lifting of restrictions
on trade and communications between Berlin
and the western zones and introduction of
the German mark of the Soviet as the sole
currency in Berlin. The Soviet government
insists on this, since the situation created
by the separate measures of the western
powers means that the three governments
are not limiting themselves to their sovereign
administration of the western zones of Ger-
many, but wish at the same time to administer
in currency and financial matters the Soviet
Zone of occupation as well, by means of
introducing into Berlin, which is in the center
of the "Soviet Zone, their separate currency
and thus disrupting the economy of the
eastern zone of Germany and in the last
analysis forcing the USSR to withdraw there-
from.

“The Soviet government considers it neces-
sary that the agreement reached in Moscow
be carried out and considers that further
negotiations can be successful only in the
event that the other three governments
likewise observe that agreement. If the
government of the USA, repudiates the agree-
ment reached on Aug. 30, only one con-
clusion can be drawn therefrom: namely,
that the government of the USA does not
wish any agreement among the USSR, the
USA, Great Britain and France for the
settlement of the situation in Berlin.

Inasmuch as the position of the govern-
ments of the USA, Great Britain and France
on the three disputed points was set forth
in the note of Sept. 22, the Soviet government
considers it necessary to do likewise:

(A) As regards air communication between
Berlin and the western zones, the establish-
ment by the Soviet command of a control
over the transport of commercial’ cargoes and
passengers is just as necessary in this case
as in the case of railway, water and highway
transport. The air routes cannot remain
uncontrolled, since an understanding has
been reached between the four governments
to the effect that the agreement must en-
visage the establishment of a corresponding
control over currency circulation in Berlin
and the trade of Berlin with the western
zones.

“(B) In the directive to the military gov-
ernors adopted by the four governments on
Aug. 30, the functions of control by the four-
power financial commission of the execution
of measures connected with the introduction
and circulation of a single currency in Berlin
were explicitly provided for.

“The Soviet government considers it ne-
cessaty that this agreement be carried out,
including the maximum reduction of occupa-
tion costs in Berlin and the establishment of
a balanced budget in Berlin (not considered
up to this time in the Berlin conversations),
which were provided for in that agreement.

“(C) The Soviet government has already
expressed jits agreement that trade between
Berlin, third countries and the western
zones of Germany should be placed under the
control of the four-power financial com-
mission. The Soviet government now declares
its readiness to agree to the establishment
of four-power control likewise over the
issuance of import and export licenses,
provided agreement is reached on all other
questions.

“4—Thus the reaching of agreement about
the situation in Berlin now depends above all
on whether the governments of Great Britain,

44

the United States of America and France are
seeking such agreement.”

Final Western Note

The following day, Sept. 26, 1948 the
governments of the United States, the Unites
Kingdom and France sent identical notes to
the Soviet government summarizing the
various steps they had taken to work out
with the Soviet government a solution te
the problem of Berlin, and announcing their
decision “ito refer the action of the Soviet
government to the Security Council of the
United Nations."

The text of this note follows:

“1The governments of the United States
France and the United Kingdom, conscious
of their obligations under the Charter of the
United Nations to settle disputes by peaceful
means, took the initiative on July 30, 1948,
in approaching the Soviet government fot
informal discussions in Moscow in order to
explore every possibility of adjusting a
dangerous situation which had arisen’ by
reason of measures taken by the Soviet gov.
ernment directly challenging the rights of the
other occupying powers in Berlin, These
measures, persistently pursued, amounted to
a blockade of land and water transport and
communication between the western zones of
Germany and Berlin, which not only endang-
ered the maintenance of ithe forces of
occupation of the United States, France and
the United Kingdom in that city, but also
jeopardized the discharge by those govern.
ments of their duties as occupying powers
through the threat of starvation, disease and
economic ruin for the population of Berlin.

“2—The governments of the United States,
France and the United Kingdom have ex-
plicitly maintained the position that they
could accept no arrangement which would
deny or impair the rights in Berlin acquired
by them through the defeat and unconditional
surrender of Germany and by four-power
agreements. They were, however, willing to
work out in good faith any practical arrange.
ments, consistent with their rights and duties,
for restoring to normal the situation in Berlin,
including the problems presented by the
existence of two currencies in that city.

"3—After long and patient discussion,
agreement was arrived at in Moscow on a
directive to the four military governors under
which the restrictive measures placed by the

Soviet military government upon transport
and communications between the western
zones and Berlin would be lifted simul-

taneously with the introduction of the German
mark of the Soviet Zone as the sole currency
for Berlin under four-power control of its
issue and continued use in Berlin.

In connection with the lifting of re
strictions and the maintenance of freedom of
communication and the transport of persons
and goods between Berlin an the westem
zones, the agreed directive provided that
restrictions recently imposed should be lifted.
Generalissimo Stalin during the discussions
personally confirmed that this meant the re-
moval also of any restrictions imposed prior
to June 18, 1948.

"Tn connection with the currency situation
in Berlin, the Soviet authorities insisted
that the German mark of the Soviet Zone be
accepted as the sole currency for Berlin. The
three Western occupying powers declare
that they were ready to withdraw from cit
culation in Berlin the Western mark
issued in that city and to accept the German
mark of the Soviet Zone subject to four
power control over its issuance, circulation
and continued use in Berlin (i.e. in Berlin
only, and not in the Soviet Zone). after
long discussions Generalissimo Stalin; 0%
Aug. 23, 1948, personally agreed to
four-power control and himself proposed Mé
establishment of a four-power financial com
mission which would control the practict.
implementation of the financial arrangemen
involved in the introduction and continue’
circulation of a single currency in Berlin a
which, Generalissimo Stalin specifically
stated, would have the power to control #
German bank of emission of the Soviet Zone

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 48 ---
in so far as its operations with respect to
Berlin were concerned.

"5, It was with these understandings,
personally confirmed by Generalissimo Stalin,
that the agreed directive was sent to the four
military governors in Berlin to work out
the technical arrangements necessary to put
it into effect.

6, Despite these clear unterstandings, the
Soviet military governor soon made it plain
in the discussions held by the four military
governors that he was not prepared to abide
by the agreed directive.

“Although the directive called for ‘the un-
qualified lifting of the restrictions on
transport and communications between the
western zones and Berlin, the Soviet military
governor failed to comply. What is more he
demanded that restrictions should be imposed
on air traffic. He endeavored to support his
demand by a false interpretation of a de-
cision of the Control Council of Nov. 30,
4945. Actually, during the discussions leading
up to the decision of the Control Council
of Nov. 1945, to establish air corridors, the
military authorities in Berlin had suggested
that the traffic in the corridors should be
limited to the needs of the military forces.
Neither the Control Council, however, nor
any other four-power body accepted’ this
proposal and the traffic in the corridors has
since been subject only to those safety re-
gulations which agreed on a four-power basis.
Other than these agreed safety regulations,
no restrictions whatsoever have been or are
in existence on the use by aircraft of the
occupying powers of air communications in
the corridors between Berlin and the western
zones of Germany.

"In regard to four-power control of the
German mark of the Soviet zone in Berlin,
the Soviet military governor refused to admit,
despite the agreement in Moscow, that the
financial commission should exercise control
over the operations with respect to Berlin of
the German bank of emission of the Soviet
zone.

"Furthermore, with respect to the question
of the control of the trade of Berlin, the
position of the Soviet military governor
amounted to a claim for exclusive Soviet
authority over the trade of Berlin with the
western zones of occupation and with foreign
countries. This claim was a contradiction of
the clear meaning of the agreed directive to
the foun military governors.

"7, Even while discussions were in pro-
gress, the Soviet authorities in Berlin toler-
ated attempts on the part of minority groups
sympathetic to their political aims forcibly
to overthrow the legal government of the
city of Berlin, constituted by democratic
elections held unden four-power supervision.
On Aug. 30, the representatives of the three
western occupying powers in Moscow had
drawn Mr, Molotov’s attention to the
disturbed situation in Berlin, They suggested
that instructions be sent to the four military
governors that they should do all in their
Power to preserve a favorable atmosphere in
Berlin, but Mr. Molotov claimed that such
instructions to the Soviet military governor
were unnecessary, Nevertheless, after that
date, these attempts to overthrow the city
government increased in violence.

"8. On Sept. 14, 1948, the representatives
of the governments of the United States,
France and the United Kingdom, acting on
teecilic instructions, called the attention of

fe Soviet government to the Soviet military
Sovernors disregard of the agreements reach-
fd during the Moscow discussions and re-
ested that he be instructed to give effect
fo them,

B 9%. The Soviet government's reply of
ept. 18, however, upheld the Soviet military
governor's position. The Soviet government
cathe! confirmed its intention to disregard its
tranmitment to lift the restrictions imposed on
masPort and communications by seeking to
beecse. Testrictions which had not before
een in effect.

mith Tespect to trade, the Soviet require-
ent that the licensing of trade with Berlin
© Placed in the hands of the Soviet military

OCTOBER 19, 1948

authorities made plain the Soviet government's
intention to obtain exclusive control over the
trade of Berlin.

"As regards the powers of the four-power
financial commission, the Soviet reply
asserted that the western occupying powers
desired to establish control over all operations
of the German bank of emission. In fact the
United States, United Kingdom and French
military governors sought only to secure the
Soviet military governor's acceptance of the
agreed principle that the four-power financial
commission should control the operations of
the bank with respect to the financial arrange-
ments relating to the currency changeover
and to the continued provision and use of
the German mark of the Soviet Zone in the
city of Berlin, (ie. in Berlin only and not in
the Soviet Zone). In the light of Mr. Molotov's
statements during the discussion of the Soviet
reply, it became clear that no assurance was
given that the Soviet military governor would
be prepared to proceed on the previously
agreed basis. Thus in this matter, as in others,
the intention of the Soviet government was
manifestly to impose conditions nullifying the
authority of the western occupying powers
and to acquire complete control over the city
of Berlin.

“10. For the governments of the UK, USA
and France to continue discussions when
fundamental agreements previously reached
had been disregarded by the Soviet gov-
ernment would have been futile. It would
have been equally fruitless to continue such
discussions in the face of the unmistakable
intention of the Soviet government to under-
mine, and indeed to destroy, the rights of
the three governments as occupying powers
in Berlin as a price for lifting the blockade,
illegally imposed in the first instance and still
unlawfully maintained. The three governments
therefore dispatched identical notes on
. 2 to the Soviet government. In those
after restating their position on the
specific points at issue, they asked the
Soviet government whether it was prepared
to remove the blockade measures which it
had imposed and thereby to establish condi-
tions which would permit a continuation of
discussions.

“1. The reply of the Soviet government in

its notes to the three governments of Sept. 25,,

1948, is unsatisfactory.

“As regards the introduction and continsed
circulation and use in Berlin of the German
mark of the Soviet Zone, the Soviet gov-
ernment misrepresents the position of the three
western occupying powers. The latter have
made it clear from the outset that they do
not desire to exercise any control over the
financial arrangements in the Soviet Zone of
occupation, but are insisting on those condi-
tions only which would provide adequate four-
power control over the financial arrangements
for the introduction and continued circulation
and use of the German mark of the Soviet
Zone as the sole currency in Berlin.

“As regards control of the trade of Berlin
the Soviet government, contrary to its previous
attitude, now states its willingness to agree
to the establishment of four-power control
over’ the issuance of licenses for the import
and export of goods provided that agreement
is reached on all other questions. It is clear,
after more than six weeks of discussions,
from the Soviet government's persistent re-
fusal to remove the blockade measures and
its continued insistence on other conditions
which would enable it to destroy the authority
and rights of the United Kingdom, the United
States and France as occupying’ powers in
Berlin that this conditional concession is
illusory.

“As regards air traffic between Berlin and
the western zones of occupation, the Soviet
government, while neither affirming nor with-
drawing the demand for the particular restric-
tions put forward by the Soviet military gov-
emor during the discussions in Berlin and
confirmed in its reply of Sept. 18, introduces
another requirement to the effect that trans-
port by air of commercial freight and pass-
engers must be placed under the control of
the Soviet command.

45

“The Soviet government's note of Sept. 25,
therefore, not only ignores the request of the
three governments that the blockade measures
should be removed in order that conditions
may be established which would permit the
continuation of discussions. It also seeks to
impose restrictions on transport and com-
munications between Berlin and the western
zones which would place the maintenance of
the forces of occupation of the three western
occupying powers and the whole life of the
Berlin population within the arbitrary power
of the Soviet command, thus enabling the
Soviet military authorities to reimpose the
blockade at any moment in the future if they
so desired.

12, Accordingly, it is apparent the the So-
viet government had no intention of carrying
out the undertakings to which it had sub.
scribed during the Moscow discussions in
August. In the face of the expressed rea-
diness of the governments of the United States,
the United Kingdom and France to negotiate
with the Soviet government all outstanding
questions regarding Berlin and Germany as a
whole in an atmosphere free from duress, the
Soviert government has, in fact, persisted in
using duress. It has resorted to acts of force
rather than to the processes of peaceful sett.
lement. It has imposed and maintained ille -
{a1 restrictions amounting to a blockade of
Berlin, In has failed to work out in good
faith four-power arrangemients for the control
of the currency of that city. Even while the
western occupying powers were seeking agree.
ment on measures to implement the under-
standings reached in Moscow, the Soviet
military authorities condoned and encouraged
attempts to overthrow the legally-constituted
municipal government of Berlin,

“Thesé actions are plainly attempts to
nullify unilaterally the rights of the western
occupying powers in Berlin, which are co-
equal with those of the Soviet Union and like
them are derived from the defeat and un-
conditional surrender of Germany and from
four-power agreements to which the Soviet
government is a party. Moreover, the use of
Coercive pressure against the western occupy-
ing powers is a clear violation of the prin-
ciples of the Charter of the United Nations.

"13, The issue between the Soviet govern-
ment and the western occupying powers is
therefore not that of technical difficulties in
communications nor that of reaching agreement
upon the conditions for the regulation of the
currency for Berlin. The issue is that the So-
viet government has clearly shown by its
actions that it is attempting by illegal and
coercive measures, in disregard of its obli-
gations, to Jsecure political objectives to
which it is not entitled and which it could not
achieve by peaceful means. It has resorted to
blockade measures; it has threatened the Ber-
lin population with starvation, disease and
economic ruin; it has tolerated disorders and
attempted to overthrow the duly elected
municipal government of Berlin.

“The attitude and conduct of the Soviet
government reveal sharply its purpose to con-
tinue its illegal and coercive blockade and its
unlawful actions designed to reduce the status
of the United States, the United Kingdom and
France. as occupying powers in Berlin to one
of complete subordination to Soviet rule, and
thus to obtain absolute authority over the
economic, political and social life of the peo-
ple of Berlin, and to incorporate the city in
the Soviet Zone.

"14.—The Soviet government has thereby
taken upon itself sole responsibility for creat.
ing a situation, in which further recourse to
the means of settlement prescribed in Article
33 of the Charter of the United Nations is
not, in existing circumstances, possible, and
which constitutes a threat to international peace
and security, In order that international peace
and security may not be further endangered,
the governments of the United States, the
United Kingdom and France, therefore, while
reserving to themselves full rights to take
such measures as may be necessary to main-
tain in these circumstances their position in
Berlin, find themselves obliged to refer the
action of the Soviet government to the Secur.
ity Council of the United Nations."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Excerpts Taken from Official Instructions

TECHNICAL INSTRUCTIONS

Changes in functional responsibility in the
field of economics have, in general, rendered
those technical instructions no longer appro-
priate, Many functions previously performed
by the Economics Division, OMGUS, and the
states have since been assumed by German
state and bizonal agencies or by the Bipartite
Control Office.

Except as set forth below, all Economics
Division (numbered) Memoranda including
Nos. 1 through 75 are rescinded,

The provisions of Economics Division

Memorandum No 17, “Method of Obtaining
Industrial Explosives from the British Zone,’’
April 1, 1946, and Memorandum No 48, ‘Storage,
Safeguarding, Transport and Use of Industrial
Explosives Within the German Economy,”
Aug. 2, 1946, will continue in effect until
superseded by published instructions or regu-
lations. — From OMGUS letter AG 300.6 (EA),
July 22.

Charge for Controlled Property

The cost of supervising the sdministration
and _custody of foreign owned property in the
US Zone of Occupation in Germany which has
been placed under control under MG Law
No. 52 for reason of absentee ownership has
previously been borne entirely by the state
governments.

The state governments are hereby authorized

to charge fees to cover the cost of super-
vision by the German state property control
agencies of property under control which is
owned by residents of countries outside
Germany and which is subject to the pro-
visions of the decontrol program announced
by Military Government on June 25, 1947 and
Oct. 30, 1947.
“In the enactment of legislation for the
charging of such fees it shall be provided
that fee for supervision together with the fee
or salary of the custodian of the property
shall not substantially exceed the sum of the
fees permitted under the German Civil Code
for a curator in absentium and the court fee
for exercising supervision over the curator.
Fees charged and collected shall be used to
defray the costs of supervising the ad-
ministration and custody of properties under
control for reason of absentee ownership
only and for no other reason.

The total of the fees collected shall not
exceed the amount that is necessary to defray
the costs of supervising the administration
and custody of this category of property. —
From OMGUS letter AG 004.21 (PD), Sept. 14.

Comfort Items Discontinued

The American Red Cross will discontinue
the distribution of comfort items to the able-
bodied troops Jan, 1, 1949. The Red Cross
assumed this responsibility during combat to
supplement military issues that at times were
not available or were delayed.

The only exceptions where distributions of
comfort items to the able-bodied will be
effected are replacement depots, ports of
embarkation, ports of debarkation and
maneuver areas. Also not affected is
distribution of comfort items to patients in
medical installations. — From EUCOM Weekly
Directive No. 37.

JEIA POL Coupons

Persons ineligible to purchase petroleum
products through US Army or EUCOM
Exchange System facilities may be serviced
at German POL stations upon surrender of
JEIA POL coupons, JEIA coupons may be
purchased against dollar instruments in the
office of the German Travel Agency (Reise-
buero) and in the JEIA hotels. — From EUCOM
cable SC-16422,

Snack Bars Restrictions

Indigenous guests will not be permitted in
EES snack bars where such snack bars are
located within the confines of an ESS store
or where the only entrance to a snack bar
is by means of an EES store. — EUCOM
cable SC-15049,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Travel by Private Car

The Comptroller General of the United
States has held that in cases where the gov-
ernment is not required to pay fare for any
travel which might have been performed by
rail in Germany, there is no authority for
reimbursement of expenses of official travel
performed by privately owned conveyance, In
view of this decision reimbursement will not
be made for official travel in Germany per-
formed by privately owned conveyance. —
From EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 35.

Prohibition on Purchasing

Individual members of the US Occupational
Forces, including civilian employees, dependents
and authorized Allied and neutral military
and civilian personnel within the US Area of
control, are prohibited from purchasing food
or agricultural supplies such as seeds, plants,
fertilizer, tools or machinery from German
civilians or business establishments, including
producers, wholesalers, retailers, restaurants,
or other sources,

Appropriate military commanders are re-
quired to enforce such prohibitions under
existing and current EUCOM directives and
the OMG for each state will render full co-
operation and assistance to such military
commanders to insure compliance therewith. —
Change 4, MGR, Title 15.

Visiting Foreign Countries

French police have authority to arrest and
take action against all personnel subject to
EUCOM jurisdiction who violate French laws
or regulations while in France. Visiting an
Allied country is a privilege accorded members
of the US forces by that country.

Personnel apprehended in France for
violations will be reported to thei: unit com-
manders by the French authorities through the
French Liaison Section, whether the French
have taken action in the case or not.

Appropriate disciplinary action may be taken
and personnel will be denied the privilege of
visiting foreign countries. — From EUCOM
Weekly Directive No. 35.

Communications Services

In order to provide efficient teletypewriter
service within authorized budget and per-
sonnel ceilings, it is directed that the fol-
lowing methods of communication be used to
the extent practicable in lieu thereof, accord-
ing to the urgency and nature of the com-
munication: 1. Army Postal Service; 2. Signal
Messenger Service.

Originators of messages are directed to
review carefully each proposed message to
determine the necessity for transmission by
electrical means and, when time permits,
dispatch via the above channels, Messages
which must be transmitted by electrical means
will be edited thoroughly to eliminate un-
necessary phrases, with the maximum use
made of authorized abbreviations. This will
materially reduce the number of words to be
transmitted,

Personnel responsible for processing mes-
sages, such as executives, adjutants and ad-
ministrative officers, will review the mes-
sages; whenever it appears that the use of
other means of transmission would have been
appropriate, reconsideration by the originator
will be requested. — From EUCOM letter
AG 311.1 SIG-AGO, Sept. 2.

Identification Required

All purchasers except uniformed personnel
of the US Armed Forces and Coast Guard will
be required to present their valid Identification
Card or Passport and EUCOM Exchange
System Ration Card upon entrance to an
EUCOM Exchange System installation selling
merchandise.

Ration cards will be presented by all
personnel for each counter purchase of
rationed items. Ration cards will be presented
by all personnel except uniformed personnel

46

of the US Armed Forces and Coast Guard for
all counter purchases of unrationed items tt
include the purchase of POL books.

EUCOM cable SC-17071, Sept. 23, Ffo™

Official Instructions

Secondary Training Missions, AG 353 Gor.
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 17 Sept. 1948.

Destruction of Classified Trash, Signal Ted.
nical Circular No. 19, O/CSO,'Hq EUCOM,
17 Sept. 1948. 2

Local Procurement in Germany by Appro-
priated and Nonappropriated Fund Agencies of
the US Occupation Forces, AG 400.12 GsP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 22 Sept. 1948,

Appropriation and Projects Pertaining to
Non-Occupation Costs of JEIA (Indigenous
Funds), AG 120 BUD-AGO, Hq EUCOM
22 Sept. 1948, D

Feeding in Approved IRO (PCIRO) Operated
and Controlled Refugee and Displaced Per-
sons (UNDPs) Assembly Centers, in US Areas
of Control in Germany, AG 383.7 (EA)
OMGUS, 23 Sept. 1948. Amends OMGUS letter
of Sept. 16, 1947.

Weekly Directive No. 38,
24 Sept. 1948. Lists following:

Sec I—Mail Service in the United Kingdom,

Sec II—Prompt Reply to Communications,

Sec Il]—Requirements of Selective Service
Act of 1948,

Sec IV—Local Procurement Procedures,

Sec V—Signal Corps Training Film. Lists:
“Exercise Polar Bear.”

Sec VI—Closing of Office of
Director, OFLC, Marburg, Germany,

Sec VII—Hotel Accomodation in Paris, Cites
Restriction,

Sec VIII-EUCOM Confinement Facilities.

Sec IX—Shoes, Low-Quarter Tan.

Sec X—EUCOM QM School Center Courses.

Sec XI—Signatures on Receiving Reports.

Sec XII_Consolidation of Class B Clubs and
Class B Messes,

Sec XIII—Salary Payments to Personnel Out-
side the US Occupied Zones.

Sec XIV—Quotas for the 7701 EUCOM Band
Training Unit.

Sec XV—Disposition of Military Payment
Certificates, Transient Personnel.

Sec XVI— EUCOM Multiple Addressee Letters
and Cables. Covers Sept. 17 to 23.

Military Government Ordinance No. 34
Amendment No. 3 to Military Government
Ordinance No.6 “Military Government Court
for Civil Actions", AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS,
27 Sept. 1948,

Computation of Occupation Costs, AG 120
(BFD-B), EUCOM Hg (Berlin), 27 Sept. 1948.

Discontinuance of Report MG/Food/72/F,
“Food Requirements, Deliveries and Stocks
for Displaced Persons in Assembly Centers.”
AG 383.7 (EA), OMGUS, 28 Sept. 1948.

Appointment of Members to Board of Review,
Under Military Government Law No. 59, “Re-
stitution Law.", AG 334 (Gen) (PD), OMGUS,
28 Sept. 1948.

Regrading of Security Classification, AG 3121
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 28 Sept. 1948.

Amendment No.1 to Military Government
Law No. 63, “Third Law for Monetary Reform
(Conversion Law).”, AG 003 (LD), OMGUS.
29 Sept. 1948. Changes date in par 1 Art 15
from Aug. 20, 1948 to Oct, 20, 1948,

Regulation No. 1 under Military Government
Ordinance No. 31, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS,
92 Sept. 1948. Establishes Deutsche Mark
equivalent for jurisdictional purposes.

Legislation on Freedom of the Press, AG
000.76 (IS), OMGUS, 20 Sept. 1948.

Hq EUCOM,

the Field

Copies of Official Instructions

listed in the Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing

directly to the originating head-
quarters.

OCTOBER 19, 1948

--- Page 50 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT €E

LEMENTS

Wuerttemberg-Baden

State Director: Mr. Charles M. LaFollette,
Stuttgart.

7780th OMGUS Gp., WB Section

Executive Officer: Lt. Col. E. J. Drinkert,
Stuttgart.

Field Relations Division
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, APO 154, Stutt-

jart.
Chel: Mr. Eugene P. Walters, Stuttgart.

Wuerttemberg Area

MGO, Stuttgart: Mr, M. L. Hoover, Stuttgart,
MGO, Heilbronn: Mr. J. W. Butler, Heilbronn.
MGO, Ulm: Mr. J, F. Capell, Ulm.

MGO, Aalen: Maj. C. A, Pallette, Aalen.
MGO, Backnang: Capt. H. W. Bynum, Back-

nang.
MGO, Boeblingen: Mr. L. L. Goldman, Boeb-

lingen.

MGO, Crailsheim; Capt. R. C, Lawton, Crails-
heim.

MGO, Esslingen: Mr. N. Semaschko, Esslingen.

MGO, Goeppingen: Mr. N. W. Barber, Goep-
pingen,

MGO, Heidenheim: Maj. E. P,
Heidenheim.

MGO, Kuenzelsau: Capt. E. L, Poland, Kuen-
zelsau.

aro: Leonberg: ist Lt. W, B. Henry, Leon-

r

Schouten,

J.
MGO, Ludwigsburg: Mr. T. E, Griswold,
Ludwigsburg.

MGO, Mergentheim: Mr. B, V, Bloom, Mer-
gentheim,

MGO, Nuertingen: N. Matthews,
Nuertingen.

MGO, Oehringen: Mr. P. C, Nelson, Oeh-
ingen.

MGO Schwaebisch-Gmuend: Capt. P. K, Fel-
ton, Schwaebisch-Gmuend.

MGO, Schwaebisch-Hall: Mr. E. E,
Schwaebisch-Hall.

MGO, Vaihingen: Capt. A. J,
hingen.

MGO, Waiblingen: Mr,
lingen,

Capt. C,

Oja,
Matheny, Vai-
C. H. Wright, Waib-

Baden Area
“Se Karlsruhe: Lt, Col. A. G. Spitz, Karls-
tuhe,

MGO, Pforzheim: Mr. R, Lascoe, Pforzheim.
MGO, Mannheim: Mr. H. Mair, Mannheim.
MGO, Heidelberg: Mr. W. T. Neel, Heidel-

erg.
MGO, Bruchsal: Capt. F. J. Gerken, Bruchsal.
MGO, Buchen: Maj. F. A, Hubbard, Buchen.
eo: Mosbach: Mr. J. Zecca, Mosbach.
GO, Sinsheim: Capt. J. Welch, Sinsheim.
MGo, Tauberbischofsheim: Mr, LL. A.
McCracken, Tauberbischofsheim.

Hesse
State Director, Dr. James R. Newman, Wies-
baden, i

Liaison & Security Control Division
eg Hesse, APO 633, Wiesbaden.

‘0, Office Bergstrasse: Mr. C. E. Blackman,

leppenheim.
180, Office Darmstadt: Mr.
Darmstadt,

(2: Suboffice Gross-Gerau; Mr. E. C. Brei-
Isqutamp, Gross-Gerau.

a Ditice Dieburg: Mr. N. G. Turner, Die-
oe: Suboffice Erbach: Mr. G. I. Laskowski,

bach,

Pe Ottice Eschwege: Maj. A. M. Tunstall,

180, Office A
Frameice Frankfurt: Mr. G. Cc.

H. P. Radigan,

Sola,

OCTOBER 19, 1948

LSO, Office Friedberg: Mr. J. W. Jergensen,

Friedberg. s
LSO, Suboffice Usingen: Mr. E. S. Wilkens,
Usingen.

LSO, Office Fritzlar-Homberg:
Perry, Fritzlar.

LSO, Suboffice Melsungen: Mr. N. A. Hack-
ney, Melsungen,

LSO, Office Fulda: Mr. M. S. Clark, Fulda.

Mr.) Pi) E;

LSO, Suboffice Lauterbach: Mr. W. J. Hoff-
man, Lauterbach.
LSO, Office Gelnhausen: Mr. J. A. Good-

night, Gelnhausen.

LSO, Suboffice Schluechtern: Mr. F. J. Green,
Schluechtern,

LSO, Office Giessen:
Giessen.

LSO, Suboffice Alsfeld: Mr. C. M. Henderson,
Alsfeld.

Mr. G. P. Moore,

LSO, Office Hanau: Maj. W. P. David, Hanau.
LSO, Suboffice Buedingen: Capt. T. L. Vitullo,
Buedingen.

LSO, Office Hersfeld: Capt. R. W. Smith,
Hersfeld.

LSO, Suboffice Huenfeld: 1st Lt. A. Abraham,
Huenfeld., ‘

LSO, Office Kassel: Mr. R. A. Goetcheus,
Kassel.

LSO, Suboffice Hofgeismar: Mr. Z. S, Stang-
wild, Hofgeismar.

SLO, Subofice Wolfhagen: Mr. E, L. Kelly,
Wolfhagen.

ime Office Marburg: Mr. S. R. Combs, Mar-

urg.

LSO, Suboffice Biedenkopf: Capt. J. C. Irwin,
Biedenkopf.

LSO, Office Obertaunus: Capt. R. W. Emer-
son, Bad Homburg.

LSO, Office Offenbach: Mr. W. R. Sheehan,
Offenbach.

LSO, Office Rotenburg: Capt. H. H. Morrison,
Rotenburg.

LSO, Office Waldeck: Mr. C. Stanton, Kor-
bach.

LSO, Suboffice Frankenberg: J. M. Lamb,
Frankenberg.

LSO, Office Wetzlar: Mr. J. R. Hyde, Wetzlar.

LSO, Suboffice Dill: 1st Lt. S. L. Maxwell,
Dillenburg.

LSO, Suboffice Obrelahn: Mr. J, S, Burns,
Weilburg.

LSO, Office Wiesbaden: Maj. C. A. Voll-
rath, Wiesbaden.

LSO, Suboffice Limburg: Mr. J. S. Huffner,
Limburg.

LSO, Suboffice Main/Taunus: Capt. J. W. Da-
Loach, Hofheim.

LSO, Suboffice Rheingau: Mr. John D. McCabe,
Ruedesheim.

LSO, Suboffice Untertaunus: Mr. G. A. Vad-
ney, Bad Schwalbach.

LSO, Office Witzenhausen: Capt. D. W. Ross,
Witzenhausen.

LSO, Office Ziegenhain:

Mr. R. F. Didlo,
Ziegenhain.

Bavaria

State Director: Mr. Murray D. Van Wagoner,
Munich.

Field Operations Division

OMG Bvaria, APO 407, Munich.

Director: Mr. E. Van Buskirk, Munich.
Deputy Director: Mr. W. J. Moran, Munich.
Control Officer: Mr. P. W. Deibel, Munich.

Branch “A“—Lover Franconia
(APO 800)

Branch Chief: Mr. B. N. Narvid, Wuerzburg.

Deputy Branch Chief: Mr. V. R. Hurst, Wuerz-
burg.

Area Bad Kissingen

Area Commander: Mr. A. Robb, Bad Kissingen.

MGO, Office Bad Kissingen: Lt. S. F, Turner,
Bad Kissingen, with suboffice for Neustadt.

MGO, Office Schweinfurt: Mr. R. L. Rigg,
Schweinfurt, with suboffices for Hofheim,
Hassfurt and Geroldzshofen.

47

MGO. Office Mellrichstadt: Lt. C, M. Taylor,
Mellrichstadt.
IGO, Office Mr. R. Fogg,
Bruckenau.

MGO, Office Hammelburg: Lt. J. M. Kinsman,
Hammelburg,

MGO, Office Koenigshofen: Lt. W. C. Clifton,
Koenigshofen.

Bruckenau:

Area Wuerzburg
Area Commander: Mr. E. C. Wimberly, Wuerz-

urd.

MGO, Office Wuerzburg: Mr. P. Bubser,
Wuerzburg, with suboffices for Ochsenfurt,
Marktheidenfeld, Karlstadt and Gmunden.

MGO, Office Aschaffenburg: Mr, F. D. Ross-
borough, Aschaffenburg, with suboffices for
Alzenau, Obernburg, Miltenberg and Lohr,

MGO, Office Kitzingen: Lt. M, O. Harness,
Kitzingen,

Branch “B“ — Upper and Middle
Franconia (APO 696)
Branch Chief: Mr. R. M. MacWorter, Nurem-

berg.
Peaty, Branch Chief: Mr. S, White, Nurem-
erg.

Area Nuremberg
eles Commander: Mr. H. T. Lund, Nurem-

erg.

MGO, Office Nuremberg: Lt. Col. J. C. Bar-
nett, Nuremberg.

MGO, Office Fuerth: Mr, J. S. Hilliard, Fuerth.

MGO, Office Schwabach: Capt. S. G. Real,
Schwabach.

Area Coburg

Area Commander: Mr. S. P. Sussell, Coburg.

MGO, Office Coburg: Mr. R. D. Walston, Co-
burg, with suboffices for Ebern, Lichtenfels
and Staffelstein.

MGO, Office Kronach: Lt. S. S. Smith, Kro-

nach,
MGO, Office Kulmbach: Capt. W. F. McCarthy,
Kulmbach,

Area Hof

Area Commander: Mr. J. D, Brooks, Hof.

MGO, Office Hof: Capt. A. A, Stanchos, Hof.
with suboffice for Munchberg,

MGO, Office Rehau: Capt. J. M.
Rehau.

MGO, Office Wunsiedel: Mr. J. W. Vonier,
Wunsiedel.

MGO, Office Naila: Capt. J. H. Campbell,
Naila, with suboffice for Stadtsteinach.

James

Area Bayreuth

Area Commander: Mr. C. L. Leven, Bayreuth.

MGO, Office Bayreuth: Mr. C. M. Pace, Bay-
reuth, with suboffice for Ebermannstadt.

MGO, Office Pegnitz: Capt. L. Griffin, Pegnitz.

MGO, Office Lauf: Maj. W. A. Kelly, Lauf.

MGO, Office Hersbruck: Lt. L. J. Chamberlain,
Hersbruck,

Area Bamberg

Area Commander: Mr, N. R. Preston,

erg.
MGO, Office Bamberg: Lt. S. R. Mooers, Bam-

erg.

MGO, Office Erlangen: Lt. Col. M. K. Barrett,
Erlangen, with suboffice for Forchheim.

MGO, Office Hochstadt: Capt. S. E, Witty,
Hodhstadt.

MGO, Office Scheinfeld: Lt. W. J. Hennesy,
Scheinfeld, with suboffice for Neustadt.

MGO, Office Uffenheim: Capt. Q. A. Mitchel,
Uffenheim.

Area Ansbach
pacer) Commander: Mr. J. C. Joublanc, Ans-
bi

ach,
MGO, Office Ansbach: Capt. J. T. Reader,
Ansbach, with suboffices for Feuchtwangen
and Gunzenhausen.

MGO, Office Weissenburg: Mr. M. R. Aliff,
Weissenburg, with suboffice for Hilpoltstein.

MGO, Office Eichstadt: Capt. I. W. Edgar,
Eidistadt.

Bam-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
MGO, Office Rothenburg: Mr. F. Roesslen,
Rothenburg.
MGO, Office Dinkelsbuehl: WOJG R. S.

Whaley, Dinkelsbuehl.

Branch “D“ — Lower Bavaria and

Upper Palatinate (APO 225)

Branch Chief: Mr. E. F. Warnke, Regensburg.

Deputy Branch Chief: Mr. J. J. May, Regens-
burg.

Area Regensburg

Area Commander: Mr. L. F. Kealy, Regens-
burg.

MGO, Office Regensburg: Capt. W. R. Small-
wood, Regensburg, with  suboffices for
Mallersdorf, Riedenburg and Kelheim.

MGO, Office Cham: Capt. G. Lafountain,
Cham, with suboffices for Neuburg v/W,
Roding, Waldmunchen and Koetzting.

MGO, Office Parsberg: Mr. J. O. Lipman,
Parsberg, with suboffice for Beilngries.

MGO, Office Burglengenfeld: Capt. L. T.
Chaquette, Burglengenfeld.

MGO, Office Neumarkt: Capt. J. B, Spencer,
Neumarkt.

Area Amberg

‘Area Commander: Mr. A. J. Dann, Amberg.

MGO, Office Amberg: Capt. R. J. Van Cam-
pen, Amberg, with suboffice for Sulzbach.

MGO, Office Weiden: Maj. G. H. Swidc,
Weiden, with suboffices for Oberviechtach
and Nabburg.

MGO, Office Eschenbach: Capt. E. S. Parr,
Eschenbach, with suboffice for Kemnath.

MGO, Office Tirschenreuth: Capt. L. O. Thi-
bodeau, Tirschenreuth.

MGO, Office Vohenstrauss: Capt. M. C. Gib-
bons, Vohenstrauss.

Area Straubing

‘Aera Commander: Mr. J. T. Lawrence, Strau-
bing.

MGO"" Office Straubing: Maj. CP. Kro-
powski, Straubing, with suboffice for Bogen.

MGO, Office Landshut: Maj. T. G. Shackel-
ford, Landshut, with suboffices for Main-
burg, Dingolfing Vilsbiburg and Rottenburg.

MGO,' Office Regen: Lt. W. M. Gardner,
Regen.

MGO, Office Deggendorf: Maj. R. E. Timber-
lake, Deggendorf, with suboffice for Viecht-
ach.

MGO, Office Landau: Capt. F. W. Adams,
Landau,

Area Passau .

Aera Commander: Mr. A. V. Diguini, Passau.

MGO, Office Passau: Mr. M. Glossop, Passau,
with suboffice for Grafenau.

MGO, Office Wegscheid: Lt, R.
Obernzell.

MGO, Office Wilshofen; Capt. R. W. Buffing-
ton, Wilshofen.

MGO, Office Griesbach: Capt. J. H. Honour,
Griesbach.

MGO, Office Pfarrkirchen: Mr. C, R. Hansen,
Pfarrkirchen,

MGO, Office Eggenfelden: Lt. I. J. Cooper,
Eggenfelden.

MGO, Office Wolfstein: Lt.
Freyung,

Demarc,

R. H. Rivet,

Branch “E“ — Upper Bavaria

(APO 407)

Branch Chief: Mr, R. F. Wagner, Munich.

Deputy Branch Chief: Mr, J. A. Walker,
Munich,

Area Freising

Area Commander: Mr, F, K. Wiest, Freising.

MGO, Office Freising: Mr, L. W. McAnnally,
Freising.

MGO, Office Pfaffenhofen: Mr. W. Rubin,
Pfaffenhofen, with suboffice for Schroben-
hausen.

MGO, Office Dachau: Capt. G. Jacobson,

Dachau, with suboffice for Aichach.

MGO, Office Erding: Capt. J. F, Nordgren,
Erding.

MGO, Office Ingolstadt:
Ingolstadt.

Area Garmisch

Maj. H. E. Reed,

Area Commander: Mr. William Garlock,
Gamnisch.
MGO, Office Garmisch: Capt. R. L, Roye,
Garmisch,

MGO, Office Weilheim: Mr. E. W. Schoening,
Weilheim.

MGO, Office Schongau; Lt. R. J. Schermer,
Schongau.

MGO, Office Starnberg: Mr. J. C. Midzor,
Starnberg.

MGO, Office Furstenfeldbruck: Lt. T. C.
Wickman, Furstenfeldbruck.

Area Munich .
Area Commander: Mr, J. H. Kelly, Munich.
Debuty Commander: Mr. L. Roberts, Munich.

Area Toelz

Area Commander: Mr, G, H. Godfrey, Bad
Toelz.

MGO, Office Toelz: Mr. F. F. Egger, Bad
Toelz.

MGO, Office Aibling: Mr. F. W. Schillig,

Aibling, with suboffice for Ebersberg.

MGO, Office Wolfratshausen: Mr. M. A.
Weightman, Wolfratshausen.

MGO, Office Miesbach: Mr. W, R. Corbett,
Miesbach.

Area Rosenheim

Area Commander; Mr.

MGO, Office Rosenhei:
Rosenheim.

MGO, Office Traunstein: Mr. R, A. Wickman,
Traunstein, with suboffice for Laufen.

MGO, Office Wasserburg: Capt. L. Jones,
Wasserburg.

MGO, Office Muhldorf: Mr. G. F. McMahon,
Muhldorf.

MGO, Office Altoetting: Mr. W. G. Keene,
Altoetting.

MGO, Office Berchtesgaden: Lt. Col. S. R.
Place, Berchtesgaden.

Branch “G" — Swabia (APO 178)

Branch Chief: Mr, W. C, Rhyne, Augsburg.

Deputy Branch Chief: Mr. H. D. Hart, Augs-
bung.

Area Augsburg

Atea Commander; Mr. D. S. Root, Augsburg.

MGO, Office Augsburg: Mr. R. Q. Petitfils,
Augsburg, with suboffice for Friedberg.

MGO, Office Schwabmunchen: Lt. M. E. Hecht,
Schwabmunchen.

MGO, Office Gunzburg: Mr, J, R. Barker,
Gunzburg, with suboffice for Krumbach.

MGO, Office Neu-Ulm: Capt. R. S. Hardison,
Neu-Ulm, with suboffice for Ilertissen.

MGO, Office Dillingen: Capt. J. T. Mulcahey,
Jr., Dilfingen, with suboffice for Wertingen.

MGO, Office Neuburg a/D: Mr. T. E, Eshcel-
man, Neuburg a/D.

MGO, Office Donauwoerth:, Mr. D. G. Rec
Donauwoerth,

MGO, Office Landsberg: Mr.
Landsberg.

L. Emerik, Rosenheim.
Lt. J. L, Allison,

A. J. Sikora,

Area Kempten

Area Commander: Mr, S, Siskind, Kempten.

MGO, Office Kempten: Mr. J. P, Montgomery,
Kempten.

MGO, Office Sonthofen: Mr. J. K. Huston,
Sonthofen.

MGO, Office Fuessen: Capt. R. W. Anderson,
Fuessen.

MGO, Office Markt Oberdorfy Capt.
Jones, Markt Oberdorf.

MGO, Office Memmingen: Mr. D. J. Angers,
Memmingen.

MGO Office Mindelheim: Mr.
Mindelheim.

MGO, Office Kaufbeuren: Maj. M. G. Norum,
Kaufbeuren.

E. E.

J. L. Ott,

Bremen

State Director: Mr. Thomas F. Dunn, Bremen.

OMG Bremen, APO 751, Bremen.

MGO, Bremerhaven Det.: Mr. Edward E. Me-
tone, Bremerhaven.

Berlin Sector
Director: Col, Frank L. Howley, Berlin.
OMG Berlin Sector, APO 742-A, Berlin.
Liaison Officers (with mayor and borough

presidents) :

Berlin City: Mr. K. F. Mautner.
Neukoelln: Mr. Daniel J, Harkins.
Kreuzberg: Mr. C. J. Melchers.
Schoeneberg: Mr C. J, Melchers.
Steglitz: Mr. Walter J. Pugh.
Tempelhof: Mr. Daniel J. Harkins.
Zehlendorf: Mr, Walter J. Pugh.

Firms Off Blacklist

The Joint Export-Import Agency
has announced that 27 firms have
been deleted from the US-UK govern.
ment list of foreign firms considered
undesirable business contacts (see
Information Bulletin, No. 137, June 15,
1948).

The following firms have been de.
leted from the “undesirable” list ang
German firms, therefore, may now do
business with them:

Sweden:

Adol, AB., Stockholm.

J. M. Boehm, AB., Stockholm,

Deutsche Amerika Line Svenska, AB., Dala-
gatan 6, Stockholm.

Duerkopp, AB., Goeteborg.

H. & A. Gratenau, AB.,
Stockholm,

Mey-Kragen, AB., Camla Brogatan 32, Stock-
holm.

Forvaltningsaktiebolaget Mona, AB., Malmoe,

Nordisk Stenindustrie, AB., Goeteborg.

Svenska, AB., Rember, Stockholm,

Wolff, Otto, AB., Stockholm.

Spain:
Sociedad Espanola del Acumulador, SA.

Switzerland:

Dornier Werke, AG., Altenheinn, St. Gallen.

Lorenz, C., AG., Berlin, Zweigniederlassung
Bern, Bubenbergplatz 10, Berm.

Manometer, AG., Andreasstr. 9, Zurich.

Scientia AG., Feldeggstr. 12, Zurich.

Stallman, Gebr., Heiden.

Portugal:

Beiras (Soc. Miniera Das), 441, Rua da Con-
stituicao, Oporto.

Castelos (Soc. Miniera Das), 441, Rua da Con-
stituicao, Oporto. a
Folgar, Cia. Miniera De, Rua da Constitui-

cao 441, Oporto.

Lisbonense, Soc. Miniera, 441, Rua da Consti-
tuicao, Oporto,

Mat da Bainha, Lda., 441, Rua da Constituicao,
Oporto.

Sabrosas (Empresa Miniera Da), 441, Rua da
Constituicao, Oporto.

Siemens Reiniger, Sarl, Rua de Santa Marta 334
and 31, Lisbon, and Rua Candido dos Reis 120,
Oporto.

Silvicola (Cia. Miniera), 441, Rua da Consti-
tuicao, Oporto.

Trancosa (Soc. Miniera De, Lda), Rua da Con-
stituicao 441, Oporto.

Tungstenia Lda, 441,
Oporto.

Volfrestania, Lda, 441, Rua da Constituicao,
Oporto.

Smalandsgatan 4,

Rua da Constituicao,

EUCOM Changes

The EUCOM Central Locator File of the
Machine Records Branch, AG Division, EUCOM
headquarters, is now located in Heidelberg
and can be reached by telephoning Heid Mil
02101/02116/02197.

Machine Records Branch, AG __ Division,
EUCOM headquarters, moved to Heidelberg
on Sept. 20. Morning reports and related
documents prepared subsequent to that date
are to be forwarded to Hq EUCOM, APO 403,
US Army (Attention: AG Machine Records
Branch). — From EUCOM Weekly Directive
No.

New APO Addresses

Effective Sept. 20, APO 124 commenced
operations at Burtonwood, England, and ite
125 at Bushey Park, Hampton Court, Midd
sex, England. The address for the Third Alt
Division will be APO 125.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF