--- Page 2 ---
OF GOOD-WILL

ric Panik

Je Spenden,

Se Te eee

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

SIGN OF GOOD-WILL—The wood
carving of the Schornsteinfeger Club

symbol was sent to the governor o? MILITARY GOVERNME NT

Minnesota as a present from the
people and a sign of their gratitude
for the donations from the United

States to the club's welfare fund, The
carving of the 500-pound block of
limetree wood was done by Mrs. Ruth

Heiliger, wife of the German sculptor,
Prot, Bernhard Heiliger. An article on

the origin and activities of the
Schornsteinfeger Club is on page 13.
(US Army photo)

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili- TABLE OF CONTENTS
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of Military Government
and affiliated organizations,

Issue No. 150 December 14, 1948

Old German Art at Christmas Time .

Four Christmases < 4
Article by Marjorie. Al Yahraes

Editorial Offices US Drama in Germany . Sas ai Mee aR ts try 3)
Directors Building, Room 1050 Article by Ingrid Youngren
Rembrandt Exhibition . . saifaaire ha)
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin Article by Theodore "A. Heinrich
Tel.; 42227, 42252, 42923 Schornsteinfeger. Club! 260.405 24 See aes ee
Editor H. Warner Waid Seven Basic Points Listed for West German Constitution . 14
Assistant Editor Henry S. Matteo Youth Helps Youth . STAN ae cas aa oe SPAR an

Article by M
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes rticle by Margaret Sorenson

American, German Youth Cooperate in Nuremberg . . . 16
Malling ‘address: JEIA Plan Permits Freer Trade . 2. 0.6 1 se MS
Information Bulletin Editorial Opinion from German Press . . . San meet)

Control Office, OMGUS

A Germans Show Little Interest in West State's Dosiignetina 20
Berlin, Germany ,

Hotels for Tourists and Businessmen . . 21
APO 742, US Army Article from Joint Export Import Agency
Correspondence in the United States Questions and Answers. . 2... 6s ss + + 2. 24
concerning articles and distribution MGO'S Daily Work . eee Lora ro MeR IC /O4 TRY 25
hould bakinade 16: Transcript from AFN Stuttgart
eee of the Press . . Pe tet yl MPN nse ASA
Reports & Analysis Branch From OMG's * ‘Voice of Hesse"
Civil Affairs Division ss aaaitios, Directives, Publications, Documents . . . . 30
Department of the Army Excerpts from Official Instructions . . . .. .. . . 30
Washington 25, D.C. Station List of Field MG Offices . . . . 2... .. 31

Printing and distribution of the
Magazine is handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.

Reprint of any article, unless spe- RNMENT FOR GERM
cifically noted, is permitted with credit UAB SITAC) SMUT CONE N mond ayy

B the -infseeinn BETHANY Aaa tke CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH
author or source cited with the article. BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Old German Art at Christmas Time

AY ou frdptiche,
© bu felige,

Welt ging verforen,

PESTS S™ <2 a
INE
°
” N =
‘ oS ES
‘
\\) >| =
7 WE

Q Gnavenbringende Weibnadegzeit’

\ Ghrift it geboren
<a freue vier, 0 Chriftendeit
&.

REF Ares €

Christmas Pyramid, from Saxon Erzgebirge.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Frau Perchta,” wood-engraving after a miniature

in Hans Vintle’s “Flowers of the Virtue," 1486,

from water-color painting of 1601.

DECEMBER 14, 19

--- Page 6 ---
Four Christmases ,

a

Wolf packs roamed unchallenged
in Germany. In the north one-third
of the cultivated land had returned
to wilderness. Funeral pyres of
witches cast their glare on skies
already red from flaming towns.
Wars of three decade were draw-
ing to a close. And in this year
of 1648 the burgher's wite Gertrud
remembered Christmas.

ERTRUD hummed a simple tune

as she placed fir branches about
the living room. Her father woke
from his fireside doze to grumble at
her quick step, but Gertrud only
laughed. Her only living son had
come home,

Later that Christmas Eve, the re-
turned warrior, Martin, joined them
by the fire. Martin's talk was hard
to follow, for his seven years in the
field had taken him to cities whose
names his elders had never heard of.
Gertrud passed wafers and apples,
asking again:

“But Martin, if this town of Stras-
bourg is indeed so fine, just how are
the ladies clothed?”

“That I cannot say exactly, mother,”
he gestured vaguely with the wafer
in his hand. “Little jackets and caps
and great frilled collars—"

Gertrud shook her head. “They are
not new. Once a lady came in our
shop here in Stuttgart who—”

Martin was impatient. “But mother,
not just ladies clothing. So many dif-
ferent, fine things...” He paused.
“Have you yet heard of the Christmas
tree?"

They looked at him and his grand-

_ father asked, “A Christmas tree?”

“Christmas tree,” Martin repeated,
happy in his triumph. He explained
that some of the noble Strasbourg
families brought fir trees into their
homes and tied paper roses, apples,
Cakes and candies to their branches.

The old man looked at him shrewdly.
‘Is this a story, boy?”

DECEMBER 14, 1948

Martin shook his head and added
for confirmation, “Father saw one—
when he carried a message to the
home of the duke’s son. Only two
days before he was killed in battle.”
He turned toward a battle-ax leaning
against the wall near the door. “He
wanted me to bring home his halberd.”

Gertrud did not follow his gaze.
“Battle-axes,” she said slowly, “did
not save my husband and three of my
sons.”

ARTIN was silent a moment be-

fore beginning again. ''The town
has changed much in seven years—so
many houses deserted and goose
yards empty—”

“The geese may be gone but the
town is full of gabbling foreigners;
they control the trade," said the old
man gruffly. ‘“Gabble, gabble—and no
one can understand them. Some of
the people are being troubled by
witches—"

“The schools are closed, no one
longer has time to read or write.”

“Some still read, mother,” replied
Martin. “When we were fighting far
to the north one year I met a man
who read at every opportunity and
always in the same book.”

“The Scriptures, boy?”

“No, but another book nearly as
long and much more strange called
the ‘Rights of War and Peace.’ The
writer was a Dutchman named Gro-
tius. He declares that making war
is wrong; that there should be a law
for all countries binding them to act
justly toward each other...”

His grandfather smiled.
dream, Martin...”

‘Only a

UTSIDE they heard singing and
went to the window to watch.
A boy dressed in white representing
the Christ child was leading a goat.
Behind him came several men, some
walking and some on horseback carry-
ing bags. Children ran along beside
them laughing, singing.
“They are sent from one of the
noble families to distribute food to

3

Marjorie A. Yahraes

Editorial Writer
Information Bulletin

the poor,” said Gertrud. “But everyone
is poor now. When they are not watch-
ing, those children will try to snatch
their apples or bread.” She turned
from the window. “Martin, are the
wars indeed ended?”

He nodded. “I think so. They have
signed a treaty. I hear that we will
fight no more. I wonder what it will
be like to live in peacetime. I have
never lived when there were no
battles being fought...”

Martin was right. The Trealy of
Westphalia ended 30 years of war.
Like Martin, many others had never
known peace. They had to make
their way in a country where two-
thirds of the total population had
vanished. Vanished too, was the
medieval order, and in its place
only ashes of towns and witches;
and the formulae of a legal-minded
Dutchman named Grotius who
wrote of peace.

II.

A century passed, Culture and
the level of life declined in the
war-weakened land. Peace in those
times was the signing of a paper,
the tolling of a church bell, a halt
between battles. Such an uneasy
peace—the Peace of Aachen ending
the War of the Austrian Succes-
sion—lay over Germany again in
1748.

UNTHER hurried his family into

the house. It was Christmas Eve.
They had been to the village to laugh
and gossip and now it was getting
dark.

“Quick, inside,” he commanded.
“Soon old Perchta will come out of
her hiding place. Tonight she will ride
with the wild witches through the air.”
He bolted the door.

“Father, I was afraid to tell you
outside,” whispered his 10-year-old
daughter, Maria, “but just as we
were leaving the village I saw a
black dog.”

“That must have been Perchta,”
Gunther answered. “Your eyes saw

(Continued next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
a bad omen. Tonight she will change
her shape and be an old woman.”

Gunther's wife laid kindling in the
massive fireplace. They lived in a
small stone peasant’s home like
thousands in the fields of Saxony. The
main room in which they were
gathered had simple furnishings: an
oak table and chairs carved by Gun-
ther; a cupboard, a spinning wheel
near the door and a crucifix surround-
ed by fir branches on the mantel. On
the table was the customary Christ-
mas decoration; a large bouquet of
cherry branches, their pink buds be-
ginning to open into blossoms in the
warmer air of the house. Tomorrow,
Gunther's wife would read the flowers
for good or bad omens.

“But father, are there really so
many ghosts?” Erich, Gunther's second
son, was the doubting one. “At the
print-shop Mr. Lehman says there
are not half so many spirits as
people think.”

His father was irritated. “Each time
you come from the shop you report
wonders told to you by Mr. Lehman.
I wish you had been apprenticed to
another trade. I suppose by now you
have learned to read, hey?”

RICH ashamed, sat on the floor
by the fire and did not answer.
Hans, his brother, laughed. ‘He will
stop talking in his city way once he
sees the prophecies come true here
on the farm... You remember, father,
what happened after last Christmas—
how the weather omens of the 12
nights all came true.”

“Now stop talking for a moment,”
his mother interrupted, “and we shall
eat. Tonight we celebrate with meat—
a rabbit that Hans trapped—and
something even better: candies from
the village.”

“Candies?” asked her husband. “And
how could we afford to buy candies?”

His wife glanced at Hans. “Never
mind, we have them and it is Christ-
mas Eve.”

“T will not eat unless I know where
they are from,” replied Gunther. “Hans,
have you been trapping game on the
manor lands and selling it in the
village?”

“Only once, father," Hans answered.
“And why shouldn't I? We plow and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

plant while the noble sons ride their .

fine horses. They have plenty to eat.
They would not miss two rabbits.”

Gunther started eating slowly. “That
would make no difference. Bit by bit
I have added to our farm, You will
inherit four acres if you do not make
the noble sons angry by your foolish
ways.”

“But father," interrupted Erich, “they
would have no right to take your
land—"

His mother laughed. “Rights? You
have been away so long you forget
our rules. Who of us has rights? We
must give something each year to the
lord of the manor, to the church and
to the prince who lives so far away
no one has ever seen him. We must
work in the manor fields and pay the
treasury of the manor before Hans
can inherit this house and land. And
now that the lord of the manor is
away so much of the time at the
prince's court, no one can help us if
the crops fail or the plague puts us
abed.”

HERE was a mingled sound of
men shouting and dogs yelping.
“There they go—the shepherds run-
ning through the streets chasing the
evil spirits with their whips,” observ-
ed Gunther. “It is time we rid this
house of bad spirits, too.”

When they had finished eating,
Gunther's wife wrapped the baby in
warm swaddling. Then the family
lighted faggots, filled the house with
pitch smoke and with loud cries
brandished their flares about the room
and outdoors in the yard. Jacob, home
from the city, took part half-heartedly
in the rites, wondering what Mr. Leh-
man would say of these old customs.

Returning to the house the family
spread straw on the floor, in remem-
brance of Christ's birth in a hay-filled
manger, afd lay down to sleep.

Perhaps Erich's master, the printer
Lehman, had peered into Voltaire's
“Letters on the English" which
brought to Europe descriptions of
freer air on the neighboring isles.
But only German scholars and “‘rad-
ical” shopkeepers and merchants
yet knew that life could exist tree
of the domination of princes. That
Christmastime,.few Germans dared

4

hope that a day would come when

- cynical wars such as that which
had just been concluded by
Prussia and Austria would some
day be no more.

ITI.

Then Goethe lived and wrote,
and others wrote, and millions
learned to read. Men began to
question the age-old powers that
made and ended wars. By 1848
their questions led to action, Bar-
ticades were mounted in Berlin,
A national assembly met in Frank-
furt-am-Main, For a Christmas, for
a year, Germany turned toward
freedom.

R. BERGMANN was telling a
story to his twin daughters,
Frieda and Edith, while his wife put
the finishing touches on a pyramid in
the corner of the room. She had first
consttucted her Christmas mountain
of moss, lichens, bark and pieces of
roots and pine cones. Now she was
placing a score of small religious fig-
ures on the finished pyramid to rep-
resent the procession of visitors to
see the Christ-child. Near her, hanging
from the ceiling, was a Christmas tree
decorated with bits of colored: paper,
flowers, bells and apples wrapped in
gold paper.

“—and that was how old Scrooge
finally learned from Tiny Tim about
the spirit of Christmas," Dr. Bergmann
concluded.

“That was a lovely story, Heinrich,”
his wife said, “did you say that
Englishman wrote it?”

“Yes, my dear, only a few years
ago. We have several of his books at
the university. And now see, children,
what a fine Christmas pyramid your
mother has made.”

“It is wonderful, but best of all I
like the Christmas tree with its little
bells.”

“They are in memory, Frieda, of a
little ghost. People once thought he
came around on Christmas Eve ringing
his bell,” her father explained.

“I like mother's cherry branches all
in bloom.”

Mrs, Bergmann laughed. “Thank ©
you, Edith. Your father makes fun of
me for celebrating in the old way:

(Continued on page 24)

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 8 ---
ERMAN AUDIENCES like Ameri-

can drama. Their first postwar
reaction to plays from abroad was
suspicion, then surprise, and now—
three years later—their enthusiasm
for American drama has grown to an
actual demand for new scripts from
Broadway.

These are the observations of Dr.
Eugene Bahn who, as theater officer
for Education and Cultural Relations
Division, OMGUS, has seen the growth
of German acclaim for US plays.

“Germans,” says Dr. Bahn, “have
looked upon the theater, hardly less
than the school, as a ‘means of edu-
cation’—to be subsidized, of course,
from public funds,

“The idea of the stage’s existing
for its own sake—purely for enter-
tainment or for the completely free
expression of ideas—was a
paratively novel one, especially to

com-

} DECEMBER 14, 1948

the Nazi-imbued youth. But it has
caught hold. While some German
critics, traditionally the arbiters, still
hesitate to concede that laugh-provok-
ing drama can be worthy of tae
sacrosanct boards, American satire
and comedy as well as serious drama
are nonetheless drawing large crowds.

“By and large, German audiences
have always tended to set the
greatest value on tragedy, whereas
Americans tend to emphasize satire.
However, an appreciation of satire
is growing in Germany. If we can
show the German people its value—
give them the realization that you can
learn from comedy and satire as
effectively as from tragedy—we shall
have done a real service. Recently a
German said to me, ‘Had we been
able to put ourselves on the stage
and to laugh at ourselves, there could
never have been a Hitler.’”

"First Legion” —Munich

5

by Ingrid Youngren
Public Information Office, OMGUS

IHE ECR Theater Office, Dr, Bahn

points out, is not a propaganda
agency. One of its prime functions is
that of a publishing house for repre-
sentative US plays which have been
cleared by the Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army, for pro-
duction in Germany, It handles trans-
lations and necessary business arrange-
ments, and makes copies available
for consideration by directors who
ask for them, But it puts no pressure
whatsoever upon these directors. Tne
phenomenal demand for American
drama throughout Germany is there-
fore the more striking, for almost
daily, German theater directors come
to US theater officers and ask for new
plays.

It is difficult to predict whether or
not a particular play will be successful.
This depends not only upon the

(Continued next page)

(Steinmet))

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
director and the actors, but also upon
the community and even the nature
and size of the theater. Some theaters
build their reputations upon certain
types of plays and when they deviate
from the usual formula the audience
is not always pleased. Then, too, the
trend of public thought in general is
an important factor. For example,
pessimism which was _ prevalent
several years ago is not so pronounced
now, and the theaters are trying to
reach for a more optimistic note and a
broader perspective. Therefore, the
choice of a play must be made with
considerable care, especially since
currency reform has made money
more scarce and valuable.

'N SPITE of the great difficulties in

procuring cloth, costumes and stage
materials of all kinds, the German
theater has made remarkable strides
since the end of the war. It is a clear
indication of the significance of the
theater to the German people, and in
reaching out to other countries for
new ideas and new plays they show
an awakening interest in the world
around them.

To date 200 contracts for American
plays have been negotiated in the US
Zone, 140 in the British, 40 in the
Soviet, and 12 in the French. In all,
45 modern US dramas are available
to German theaters, and most of these
have already been performed. In Ger-
many, it must be understood, each
city has its own theater with its own
company of players. Touring compa-
nies on a large scale are rare. Thus,
if a play succeeds in one city, other
cities are likely to want to produce
it for themselves. A number of facts
which Dr. Bahn has at hand provide
an interesting index to German public
opinion,

JHE MOST amazing success to date
has been “Voice of the Turtle,”
which has been produced in 55 cities
of Germany (including several in the
Soviet Zone) and has played prece-
dent-breaking runs in all of them. Its
popularity is the more remarkable
because an actor of a defeated nation,
in the hero's role, wears the uniform
of the conqueror. There is also an
interesting point (of little significance
to Americans, but having a decided
effect on German audiences) in this
(Continued next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

"Yes, My Darling Daughter”—Berlin
(GroB-Studio)

“Voice of the Turtle’—Frankfurt

"The Skin of Our Teeth”—Munich

“On Borrowed Time”—Augsl
ECR,

(Rubner 8H
‘

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 10 ---
A I
“Thunder Rock”—Frankfurt (Fornoff)

‘Life with Father” —Heidelberg “Mourning Becomes Electra”—Bremen
(Hindrichs) (Lohrish-Achilles)

DECEMBER 14, 1948 7

soldier's putting on an apron and
washing dishes.

Second in popularity has been “Three
Men on a Horse" (in 42 cities), The
explanation seems to be that it brought
to German audiences hitherto totally
unfamiliar but apparently irresistible
elements—fast-playing comedy, lively
repartee and the ridiculous situation.

Robert Ardrey's “Thunder Rock”
(in 41 cities), although not a success
on Broadway, has been extraordinarily
popular in Germany, as it was also
in England. Without doubt its philo-
sophy, coupled with the realities of
threatening war, causes it to speak
with marked directness to German
audiences,

Thornton Wilder's “Our Town” (in
25 cities) has delighted both audiences
and critics, setting off spirited, if un-
resolved, controversies as to whether
this play is “typically American" or
“universal”.

“The Skin of Our Teeth” (16 cities)
has received by far the widest critical
acclaim of any production, Although
some theatergoers claimed mystifi-
cation, most were quick to comment,
“It is as though it were written
especialiy for us Germans.” In almost
any discussion an American drama,
German theater critics and directors
are enthusiastic in their acclaim for
“The Skin of Our Teeth". With their
keen interest in philosophy they find
Wilder's play fascinating, and it,
among other American plays, has
been the theme of many hours of
discussion,

Saroyan’s “The Time of Your Life”
is having great success, both critical
and popular, and in Berlin it has had
a comparatively long run.

HERE have been a number of

surprises. “Family Portrait," so
well liked in America, was unsuccess-
ful here, The Germans pronounced it
“sacrilegious.” “You cannot,” they
announced, “put the Holy Family on
the stage—as just ordinary poeple."
The Berlin performance took place in
the Soviet Sector, and the Russians,
on the other hand, liked the play
very much.

“Ah Wilderness” was also a failure
here, It is doubtful that it was under-
stood by German audiences who did
not seem to find children or adoles-

(Continued next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
cents significant dramatic material.
“How,” they have asked in reference
to a number of plays, “can a child's
problems be important?"

“Kiss and Tell," which opened in
Berlin on September 24, was not at
all approved by the critics because
of its “lack of social significance."
Nonetheless, the play was a box
Office success, and it was very well
produced and acted. The setting, in
view of the obstacles to be overcome
in getting equipment, was excellent.

“Of Mice and Men” was given its
German premiere early this fall in
Wiesbaden, directed by the talented
Karl-Heinz Stroux. It was widely
acclaimed as a production and as a
play. Critics praised the play as “a
study of social and metaphysical
Significance. “Of Mice and Men" is
also playing with outstanding success
at the Schlosspark-Theater in Berlin.
Steinbeck has quite a following among
German readers, many of whom are
well acquainted with his “Tortilla
Flat" and “Grapes of Wrath” as well
as with “Of Mice and Men."

“Ethan Frome,” so well-liked by

Americans, was decried as “too

This article was expanded by
Mrs. Youngren from an interview
she prepared for the Berlin Ob-
server, US Army newspaper of
the Berlin Military Post. Previous
articles published in the Infor-
mation Bulletin concerning the
‘theater in Germany include:

The Theater Returns to the
Bavarian Scene, by Capt. Gerard
'W. Van Loon, Issue No. 26, Jan.
26, 1946.

No Bread and Circuses for Ger-
many, by Benno Frank,
No. 30, Feb. 23, 1946.

The Theater, by Benno Frank,
Issue No. 69, Nov. 25, 1946.

Information Control (MG series),
Issue No. 79, Feb. 10, 1947.

Issue

heavy” by German theaters, despite
the fact that other “heavy” plays are
accepted; for instance, “Mourning
Becomes Electra" was extremely pop-
ular in 15 cities, and its performance
in Frankfurt, where it was given a
magnificent production, was the out-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Standing theatrical event in the state
of Hesse. The deep psychological
significance of the play was fully
appreciated by both the actors and
the audience.

'N THE LAST four months interest

in religious plays has steadily been
increasing in Germany. This interest
is superseding the interest in ‘“super-
natural" plays, which was evident
two years ago. The American plays
which most vividly portray religious
themes are those by Emmet Lavery,
whose “First Legion” and ‘“Mon-
signore’s Hour” are receiving great
support from the German public.

“Glass Menagerie’ by Tennessee
Williams is now in rehearsal at the
Hebbel Theater in Berlin, and excite-
ment over the German premiere is
steadily mounting. “Glass Menagerie”
has long intrigued German actors and
directors and it will prove to be pop-
ular among more experienced acting
groups.

With a glance to the future, Dr.
Bahn announced that “Lady in the
Dark” will soon go into production
in Germany. Because of costly, com-
plex staging and dearth of materials
a number of producers have plans to
pool resources and form a corporation
in order to do the production justice.

Germans, who have long been hear-
ing a lot about “Oklahoma,” have
set up a clamor to produce it here. If
or when it can be cleared with its
American owners, Americans in Berlin
will be very pleased too. They are
looking forward to hearing “Surrey
with a Fringe on Top” and “I Cain't
Say No” in German.

N ADDITION to the more serious

and significant reaction to American
plays produced here, there are also
some humorous sidelights. After tae
premiere of “Life with Father” at the
Renaissance-Theater in Berlin, mem-
bers of the audience were amusing
themselves imitating Cousin Cora’'s
high-pitched giggle. Such whole-
hearted and*repeated laughter at its
comedy is seldom heard in Germany
nowadays.

In “The Skin of Our Teeth," the
famous lines of Sabina: “Oh, oh, oh.
Six o'clock and the master not home
yet. Pray God nothing serious has
happened to him crossing the Hudson

8

River," became almost household
jargon when it was time for “Vater”
to come home.

What is the value of these plays
from a broad sociological angle? To
answer this, we must first realize the
extent to which the German theaters

Dr. Eugene Bahn received his
doctor of philosophy degree in
1935 from the University of Wis-
consin where he specialized in
drama and dramatic literature. He
also studied in Salzburg, Austria,

Dr. Bahn was vice president of
the National Collegiate Players
in 1936. From 1937 to 1943 he
was director of the University
Theater at Ohio State University,
and from 1943 to 1945 associated
director of the Rainbow Corner,
the famous Red Cross club, in
London. . ‘

Dr. Bahn became theater officer
with OMGUS in 1946,

were limited in their choice of plays
during the Hitler years. During these
years, very little knowledge of activ-
ities or ideas in the world ourside of
Germany was allowed to come into
Germany. This was equally true in
the theater.

All of the modern plays so well
known in other European countries
and in America and Britain were
completely strange and unknown to
German theaters. The trends of thought
and theater developments in those
countries were likewise unknown.
Enabling the German theaters to
present to the German public tae
ideas and developments in other
countries is a positive step toward
the reorientation of German thought.

+ END

Laval Account Released

The sums of 10,000 Swiss francs,
$10,000 and a number of Spanish
pesetas have been released to the
widow of Pierre Laval, who, the
French government decided, was
entitled to receive the money. The
money had originally been taken from
Pierre Laval at the time of his capture
in Austria by the US Army.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 12 ---
ESTERN GERMANY'S celebrated
Rembrandt exhibition attracted
a record attendance of 65,000 persons
to the Wiesbaden Collecting Point.
These included 2,580 American and
Allied personnel, who came to see
this unique one-man show devoted to
one of Europe's greatest painters.

Professional praise of the display's
quality and importance was expressed
by leading museum directors and pro-
fessors of art history visiting from
England, France, Belgium, the Nether-
land, Italy, Norway, Poland and
Switzerland, including the director of
Holland's own great shrine to Rem-
brandt, the Rijksmuseum
sterdam,

in Am-

Arranged by the Monuments, Fine
Arts & Archives Section of OMG
Hesse with the assistance of the
Hessian Ministry of Education, the
Rembrandt exhibit was the eight in

(left) Dr. Hans Vogel, director of the State Art Collec-
tions at Kassel, delivers the principal address at the
opening of the Rembrandt exhibition, Standing behind
him is Dr. Erwin Stein, Hessian minister of education.
(tight) Dr. Heinrich, author of this article, explains the
exhibition to visiting British Commonwealth officials: W.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

a series initiated and organized at the
Wiesbaden Collecting Point as a
voluntary activity by MFA&A. The
show is an example of the kind of
exhibit which has made Wiesbaden
a center for art-loving people all over
the western zones.

HE ORGANIZATION of a great

exhibition in postwar Germany
presents many severe technical diffi-
culties, ranging from transportation
to insurance, but it was nonetheless
possible to assemble in the Collecting
Point galleries 43 paintings, 155 draw-
ings and more than 80 etchings by the
great Dutch master. In addition, five
paintings and a drawing by his
teacher, Pieter Lastman, were shown
and 60 paintings by his pupils and
close colleagues who were influenced
by his powerful example. In nearby
Frankfurt three more paintings by
Rembrandt were exhibited, as a pend-

Mr. H. E. Holt,

Sullivan,

by Theodore A. Heinrich

Chief, MFA&A Section
OMG Hesse

ant to the Wiesbaden show, at the
Staedelsches Kunstinstitut (Staedel’s
Institute of Art), which is prohibited
by the terms of its founder's will from
making loans,

The paintings were drawn from the
museums of Berlin, Brunswick, Co-
logne, Darmstadt, Kassel and Munich.
The entire Kassel collection, one of
the largest single groups of Rem-
brandts in Europe, was lent with the
exception of several canvases still
inaccessible outside the US Zone, and
made the journey to Wiesbaden under
military guard,

So large and important an assembly
of Rembrandts under one roof has
been equalled only once previously
and has perhaps never been exceeded,
particularly as many of the canvases
by Rembrandt's pupils went under the
master’s name until modern research

(Continued next page)

(left to right) Senator A. W. Roebuck of Canada, Mr.
Harper, OMGH; Mr, Heinrich; Mr, Tamizuddin Khan,
deputy president, Constituent Assembly, Pakistan; Sir
Howard d’Egville, Empire Parliamentary Association;
minister of
member,

labor, Australia;
Parliament,

Mr.
New Zealand.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
proved their true authorship. It was not surprising then,
that art-lovers and students went to great effort, despite
the discomforts cf German travel and the severe of tem-
porary restrictions imposed by currency reform, to visit
Wiesbaden while this unique opportunity was offered.

EMBRANDT'S extraordinary creative fertility found

expression in three quite different media: painting,
drawing and etching. He was an innovator of such force in
each of these fields of artistic endeavor that his influence
is still strong nearly 300 years after his death. The stamp of
his intense and manifold personality on his work was so
strong as to make him at first a richly rewarded hero and
later an incomprehensible enigma to his own generation,
which allowed him to die in neglected poverty. This error
of public judgment began to be corrected in the
18th century and his titanic stature is now
universally recognized,

The exhibition was designed to
2mphasize the Dutch context in which
he lived and worked, and at the
same time to underscore the fact
that a genius of such univer-
sality of spirit cannot be con-
tined within any rigid pattern
of nationalism, The compassion
which shines from all his pic-
tures, the absence of intellect-
ual pride, are notable charac-
teristics of his life and work
of which we all, not alone the
German people, need frequent
reminding.

The Wiesbaden exhibitions
are always planned with an eye
to their potential reorientation
function in a field where the eager
response of the German people
minimizes a suspicion of propaganda
in any form. The selection and arrange-
ment of works to be shown is conse-
quently guided with this in mind, although the
first consideration to be given is always that of quality.

IGH QUALITY in the exhibitions permits their import-

ant use as vehicles for the introduction and illustration
of the ideas and ideals of western civilization. Rembrandt,
with his deep humanism, his insistence not only on the
dignity but the responsibility of man, his absolute freedom
trom religious or racial prejudice, his emphasis on justice
and good, and the clear power of his artistic language,
was an ideal choice for this purpose, The thoughtful
newspaper and magazine response to this exhibition in
every part of western Germany indicates the impact it
has had on the cultivated public.

Efforts of the Hessian Ministry of Education to bring
as many school children as possible to Wiesbaden for
the exhibition were severely handicaped by the introduc-
tion of currency reform, but a gratifying number (more
than 250 conducted groups) made the trip. Early in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

run of the show it was necessary to advance the opening
time by an hour to accommodate the crowds, who were
lining up as if the museum were a movie. School groups
were encouraged to come early or during lunch hour to
relieve the congestion.

The success of the whole undertaking seems in re.
trospect to the exhibition management like a triumph
over currency reform. The rumoured imminence of the
reform presented serious problems in securing loans of
paintings and preparing an illustrated catalogue. The
latter is not yet in print, but so many demands for it are
on file that it is at last to be printed for distribution,

The Exhibitions without subsidy, from either the
occupation sources or the Hessian government, must
be self-supporting. The automatic abolition of
all but 10 percent of the reserve in the
revolving fund by currency reform was
at first regarded by the ministry as

a catastrophic blow from which the

enterprise was unlikely to recover,
but the confidence shown by the
people has only served to pro-

vide one more proof of the
people's spiritual need,

The immediate effects of cur-
rency reform were strikingly
reflected by the attendance
figures, The exhibition had
been open less than six weeks
when the public was informed
by radio on June 18 that the
Reichsmark was to be recalled

on the.20th and replaced by the

Déutsche mark, Almost 10,000
people had visited the show

during that week. The figures are

counted from Sunday through Satur-
day and during that week of June
20-26 the total fell to 2,115, of whom
1,600 had come on the Sunday when the
Reichsmark was still valid, This means that
during the first week in which the new currency was
in force only 500 felt they could afford one of their
precious new Deutsche marks to view pictures, even
Rembrandt's,

As the majority of the visitors come from out town, it
took some time before people had accumulated enough
surplus to finance the train journey, and of course many
student groups scheduled for July or later had to cancel
their plans. But a steady flow in circulation of good
money was soon reflected in the attendance figures: the
second week brought 776 visitors, the fifth 1,205, and
during the final weeks an average of 2,100 came each
seven days. The dropping of French Zone border restric
tions also permitted a flow of visitors from the Mainz area

June 20 produced one of our pleasantest anecdotes. On
Monday morning an elderly man, shabby but neat, was
waiting at the door at 9 o'clock to be (Continued on page 12)

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 14 ---
Among masterworks displayed: (opposite page) “Portrait of a

Lady” from the Herzog Anton-Ulrich Museum, Brunswick;

(above) “Romantic Landscape with Ruins” lent by the Kassel

Museum; (below) “Portrait of an Old Man with Gold Chain”

from Kassel Museum; (right) “Study for Flagellation of Christ”
from Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Cologne,

DECEMBER 14, 1948 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
(Continued from page 10)
Rembrandt Exhibition

among the first to enter, He handed
the cashier a crisp new Deutsche mark
note and confided, “Ever since I heard
the announcement on the radio Friday
night about the currency reform, I've
been thinking how I should spend my
first D-Mark. I wanted to use it for
something that would give me great
and lasting pleasure. Last night it
suddenly occurred to me, tomorrow
no one can afford the exhibition, so
if I go, there will be just Rembrandt
and me—and here I am.”

The crowds during the opening
weeks had suggested that the 50,000th
visitor would probably pass through
the doors on about June 24, but be-
cause of currency reform the event
did not take place until July 12. A
specially inscribed book on Rembrandt
with a large number of fine reproduc-
tions had been prepared, and a very
surprised young man found himself
being presented with this book while
flashbulbs flared* in front of the
famous Kassel portrait of Saskia.

The recipient, Hans Voss of Bie-
brich, turned out appropriately to be
a first-year student in art history at
Mainz University. He was especially
delighted to receive a good book on
Rembrandt in German because his
own copy, given him by his father,
had Italian text, which he was unable
to read.

NIVERSITY and art students are

always a foremost concern in
arranging the Wiesbaden exhibitions.
The acute shortage of books is clearly
indicated by the number of students
to be seen earnestly scribbling lengthy
notes in the galleries or, as with one
group of visiting art students from
Munich, standing precariously stork-
like on one leg while copying Rem-
brandt drawings on upraised knees.
Organized groups of students conduct-
ed by professors, frequently spending
two or three days in Wiesbaden for
the purpose, visited the exhibition
from the universities of Bonn, Cologne,
Frankfurt, Freiburg, Hamburg, Mainz,
Marburg, Munich, Heidelberg and
Wuerzburg, and special lectures were
arranged by renowned authorities; art

*) Photo reproduced in Information Bulletin,
Issue No. 141, Aug. 16, 1948, page 16.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

students came in groups, from among
others the academies of Duesseldorf
and Munich. A few enterprising
students from Berlin even managed
during the blockade to secure special
permits and air transport “to see the
Rembrandts.” Several students ex-
perienced real adventures to reach
Wiesbaden from areas where author-
izations for such purposes are not
normally granted.

Accommodation, especially when
the state legislature is in session, was
not easy to find, and the students in
Particular had great difficulties in
solving the lodging problem. On at
least one occasion the Reichsbahn
(railroad office) intimated that Rem-

Photography by
Miss Eva-Maria-Czako
Wiesbaden Collecting Point

brandt was responsible for overnight
congestion in the main station; it was
found that a large student delegation
from Munich was camped there for
the week-end. Another large group
from Freiburg was billeted all the way
from Frankfurt to Ruedesheim, rallying
each morning during their visit in the
Collecting Point galleries at nine,
Eminent museum directors and pro-
fessors have passed a night or two
on field cots in an empty room in the
museum, but for security reasons it
was obviously not possible to provide
dormitory facilities for the students,

The Rembrandts are being packed
for return to their owners, and the
ninth Wiesbaden art exhibit is taking
place. But students and art lovers
alike will enjoy the benefits of the
1948 Rembrandt show for
months to come,

many
+END

Medicine Leads Professional Studies

OCTORS will not be scarce in

Western Germany’s future,
according to the Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division,’ OMGUS,
which has compiled the first statistical
survey of US Zone education since
the war. Twenty-one percent of all
students in higher institutions of
learning are taking medical or pre-
medical courses.

Next most popular major is philo-
sophy with 14.7 percent of the en-
rolled students, while 13.7 percent are
preparing for legal Other
figures show that, while 11.1 percent
of students are studying to become
architects, only 7.3 percent are taking
engineering courses. Mathematics and
the natural sciences account for only
9.5 percent. The remaining students
are enrolled in various other college
studies.

Universities, colleges and other
higher institutions of learning —34 in
all—had 42,296 students enrolled in
1947. Full-time agricultural schools
enrolled 9,598 pupils in 152 schools.
In the 11,488 elementary, secondary
and intermediate schools 2,593,316
children attended classes. Full and
part-time vocational schools, 4,175 in
number, claimed 429,947 students.

Although the total number of second-
ary schools has decreased since 1942

careers.

12

from 563 to 545 in 1947, the number
of private schools, including those
under the auspices of religious groups,
has increased. In 1942 there were 21
such schools in US occupied areas,
but from the war's end until 1947 they
have increased to 82 in number.

Yearly Leaves Approved

The Bavarian legislature, in what
was called by a Social Democratic
spokesman its first ‘‘social-political
legislation,’ approved a law regulating
minimum yearly leaves for employees.
According to the law, all employees
are entitled to a minimum paid annual
vacation of 12 days, with an additional
grant of six days to persons more than
50-percent disabled and to employees
in dangerous jobs. Minors up to
18 years of age are entitled to 24 days’
leave, of which at least one week is
to be spent in training and education in
civic, religious, scientific or vocational
fields.

Two Vacancies on High Court

Since the judges appointed to date
to the German Bizonal High Court
are able to deal adequately with the
present work of the court, it was
agreed that no appointments would
be made for the present to the two
vacant positions of associate justices

DECEMBER. 14, 1948

--- Page 16 ---
chornsteinfeger Club

(Chimney Sweep Club)

HE Schornsteinfeger Club, a good-

will organization of more than
16,000 members from _ countries
throughout the world, was born one
year ago in Berlin because of home-
sickness.

Because of his anticipation of the
prospects of a fifth Christmas away
from his family and friends, Mr.
Merle Potter, adviser on American-
German relations to the OMGUS
chief of staff, sent a letter to 150 of
his newspaper, radio and theatrical
acquaintances back in the United
States.

Telling of the need he saw around
him of the Germans for clothes, food
and help, and of the happiness he
would feel to be able to help them,
he wrote:

“Please send to me within the next
two or three days at least one article
of unneeded clothing that still has
some service in it. Anything at all—
for a man or woman, for a baby, for
a young child. I’m certain you can
lay your hands on something that's
doing you no present good and isn't
likely to in the immediate future. An
old pair of trousers, an out of style
dress, old shoes, a baby dress, an-
tique sweater, underwear, unused
cloth—I will settle for anything.

HE IDEA caught on. Friends told

others, the appeal was printed
in newspapers, announcements were
made on the radio and by the score
bundles began pouring into Mr. Pot-
ter's Berlin office. So many, in fact,
that it would have been almost im-
possible to thank each individual per-
sonally.

Forming a club, therefore, seemed
the best solution, Each person who
contributed money or an article of
clothing became a member for life.
The symbol of the Schornsteinfeger
was chosen simply because in Europe
it is considered good luck to see a
chimney sweep. The picture of a
little black grinning man in tra-

| ditional chimney sweep garb became
a mark of all the club's activities.

Shortly after the club’s foundation

it seemed appropriate for Germans,

DECEMBER 14, 1948

to the extent of their means, also to
take part in the work. It was re-
cognized that the average German is
in no position to make a contribution
comparable with that of the average
American, but goodwill would be the
important element—a determination to
share what small surpluses of cloth-
ing or money he possesses with his
less fortunate countryman.

Erik Reger, editor of the Tages-
spiegel, along with others on the
newspaper's staff, applauded the idea
and as a result Germans were ad-
mitted to membership in the club by
paying a membership fee of at least
one item of usable clothing or five
marks or more. Not only did many
Germans pay for their memberships
in marks ranging from five to the
10,000 marks contributed by the
Tagesspiegel, but also in clothes in a
remarkable demonstration of self-
sacrifice.

ERMAN members have made con-
tributions in other ways. They

have come through with promotion
ideas that have netted many marks
for the club's charitable work. For
example, the management and play-
ers of the Hebbel-Theater in Berlin
gave a benefit performance of “So
war Mama," presented on Broadway

(Continued next page)

Gift packages are loaded at OMGUS headquarters on a Tagesspiegel

truck for distribution

to the neediest persons of Berlin. Helping are

(left to right) Mr. Potter, Capt. K, T. Salls, head of Berlin's Office for
Special Projects; Mr. Kurt Konietzko, head of the Tagesspiegel's social

department.

13

(US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
under the title of “I Remember
Mama," with Kaethe Dorsch and
Carl KuhImann, both well known Ger-
man players, in the leading roles.
The Schlosspark Theater presented
“Drei Mann auf einem Pferd" (Three
Men on a Horse) with Walter Blum
and Gudrun Genest in the starring

roles. A special Schornsteinfeget
revue, entitled “We Bring Good
Luck", with original lyrics, music

and dances was presented last June
at Titania Palast before an audience
of more than 5,000. A book lottery
in a Berlin-Friedenau bookstore added
more ‘marks to the club treasury.
Marks are used to purchase Ger-
man items which can aid the poor.
Dollars are used by the club to buy
food, clothing and other articles of
necessity from the United States,
Distribution of used clothing, how-
ever, is one of the main activities of

Seven Basic Points

EMBERS of the constituent as-

sembly at Bonn have been
given by the three western powers
a seven-point resume of basic quali-
ties which should be incorporated
into the new constitution now being
written for West Germany,

Limitation of executive powers,
safeguarding finance and other po-
wers of individual states, and the im-
portance of an independent judiciary
are all emphasized. Specifically, the
new constitution will be reviewed for:

1. A bicameral legislative system
in which one of the houses must rep-
resent the individual states and have
sufficient power to safeguard the in-
terests of the states.

2. A limitation of powers of the
execitive to those functions which
are iefinitely prescribed by the con-
stitut’on—with emergency powers,
if any, so limited as to require prompt

’ legislative or judicial review,

3. Limitation of powers of the
federal government to those expressly
enumerated in the constitution; ex-
clusion of federal jurisdiction in the
field of education, cultural and reli-
gious affairs, local government and
public health (except in this last case
to secure such coordination as is es-
sential to safeguard the health of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the club. Well over 35,000 items of
usable clothing have been distributed
through American and German accre-
dited welfare agencies. The clothing
is given to needy persons after care-
ful investigation by responsible in-
vestigators. Many items of this
clothing have gone to German PW's
returning home in a destitute con-
dition from Soviet camps.

The Schornsteinfeger Club which
calls itself an ‘International Organi-
zation of Persons of Goodwill’ lives
up to its name. With a membership
of more than 16,0000, it represents
persons all over the world including
Peru, Australia, China, India, Sweden,
Brazil, Switzerland, England and Fin-
land.

HEIR FIRST year of organization
and growth past, the Schornstein-
feger'Club is now busy with 1948 Christ-
mas work. More than 40 large boxes

of German items including handmade
dolls, cigarette lighters and hand-
made wooden articles have been sent
to the United States and sold to
Americans whose money is being
converted into CARE packages and
clothing. New appeals for Decem-
ber contributions were sent to mem-
bers in July and at Thanksgiving
time and generous gifts of money
and chlothing are arriving.

For their part, German club mem-
bers in Berlin have indicated that
good will is not exclusive to Ameri-
can members. By posters and money
collection points they are carrying
out their own plan: At Christmastime,
750 British and American pilots and

* ground crew personnel on the Berlin

airlift are to be presented engraved
cigarette lighters as a token of ap-
preciation. +END

Listed for West Germany Constitution

people in the several states), Assur-
ance that powers of the federal gov-
ernment in the field of public welfare
are limited to those necessary for
coordination of social security meas-
ures; and in the police field, to
those agreed upon by the Military
Governors during the occupation.

4. Regarding the field of public
finance, limitation of powers of the
federal government to the disposed
of monies including the raising of
revenues for purposes for which it is
responsible. The federal government
may set rates and legislate on gener-
al principles of assessment with re-
gard to other taxes for which unifor-
mity is essential, the collection and
uitlization of such taxes being left to
the individual states; and the federal
government may appropriate funds
only for purposes for which it is re-
sponsible under the constitution,

5. An independent judiciary -to
review federal legislation, to review
the exercise of federal executive
power, to adjudicate conflict between
federal and state authorities as well
as between state authorities and to
protect the civil rights and freedom
of the individual.

6. ‘Clear definition of the powers
of the federal government to establish

14

federal agencies for the execution
and administration of its responsibili-
ties — and limitation of these powers
to those fields in which it is clear
that state implementation is imprac-
tical.

7. Provision for a civil service on
principles of equal opportunity for all
qualified job-seekers without preju-
dice because of political background.
Members of the legislature should not
be allowed to retain civil service po-
sitions. .

OME of the principles conveyed
to the constituent assembly al-
ready had been incorporated into the
draft of the provisional constitution.
Others—notably the composition of
the upper house and the allocation
of finance powers—are still under
discussion by the German delegates,
who represent nine political parties.
Their draft already carries detailed
provision for limiting the “emergency
powers” of the executive, To avoid
a-repetition of Hitler's ‘dictatorship
by decree,” the federal chancellor
according to the present draft could
issue emergency decrees only for four
weeks at a time, and even within
that period they could be blocked by
either house of the legislature.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 18 ---
Youth Helps Youth

‘NDS are being extended across
the sea by active American

youth organizations to advise and
assist German youth groups. A
spontaneous reception for the ex-
change of democratic ideas and inter-
national good-will in club activities
has greeted the “Youth Helps Youth”
project of the Armed Forces As-
sistance to German Youth Activities
program, As a result of radio, letter
and magazine publicity, the GYA
Section of EUCOM Headquarters is
deluged with requests and offers from
US young people’s organizations to
establish cooperative liaison with
similar German organizations.

“Youth Helps Youth" is a program
which seeks to pair several hundred
American organizations with an equal
number of German ones composed of
persons of the same ages, interests
and religions, This pairing, of course,
must be done by correspondence.

The GYA Section feels that much
can be accomplished by having
Americans tell Germans in their own
words some of the benefits of living
under a democratic system, Through
direct contact, Germans have the
opportunity of finding out that
Americans, too, have problems. And
finally, American youth groups are
able to send much in the way of
materials, supplies and funds to
supplement the aid which GYA is
able to give.

HE “Youth Helps Youth" project

tries to fill one of the most
urgent needs of German youth—
contact with the outside world. After
years of living on a social and intel-
lectual island under the Nazis, German
young people experience a hunger for
news of what other countries have
written—novels, poetry, drama, essays,
music. They are eager to find out
what boys and girls of other lands
are thinking and doing.

There are not enough Americans
in Germany to furnish this personal
contact that is a needed for the
2,500,000 German youth in the US

DECEMBER 14, 1948

Zone. Lack of appropriated money,
shortages of assigned GYA personnel
and the difficulty of maintaining
large numbers of volunteers have
made it difficult to assist more than
about 17 percent of all German young
persons in the US Zone between the
ages of 10 and 25,

The “Youth Helps Youth" project
was developed as a means of
reaching more young people and in-
fluencing them perhaps even more
effectively than ‘through the normal
operation of youth centers, sports
activities or discussion groups.

A “pen-pal” type of correspondence
for individuals had already been set
up by Military Government and
hundreds of German youngsters had
already taken advantage of it.
However, the “Youth Helps Youth”
project was designed ‘to be a different
kind of correspondence. It was to
be between youth groups, not in-
dividuals,

'N ORDER to make the project
effective, it was necessary to
arouse widespread interest both in
the United States and in Germany.
The latter was not difficult, but the
former was. The German Youth
Activities Section of EUCOM Head-
quarters sent, through official chan-
nels, letters which introduced and
explained the project to all of the
headquarters of youth-serving or-
ganizations in the United States,

Now, approximately five months
since the program began, 1,700 letters
proposing the plan have been mailed
to the United States. In response,
1,300 affirmative letters have been
received.

The 4-H Clubs in America and the
Future Farmers of America, both
organizations sponsored by the US
Department of Agriculture, have been

especially enthusiastic in their
Tesponse,
The National Recreation Asso-

ciation, Catholic and Protestant youth
groups, Camp Fire Girls, and junior
and senior high school groups have

15

ty Margaret Sorenson

Educational Adviser
GYA Section, OPOT Division
EUCOM Headquarters

also furnished many boy and girl
units for correspondence.

Radio stations are now becoming
interested. Some of them have asked
to adopt an entire youth center as
correspondents so that they may air
the German letters on their youth
programs,

Favorable magazine publicity has
also helped to interest new or-
ganizations. A recent feature article
in the National Geographic Magazine,
for example increased the number
of letters from America.

XPLAINING the purpose and

setup of the project has been time-
consuming. In at least 900 cases the
GYA Section has found it necessary
to send additional explanatory letters,
And in almost all cases there was the
necessary delay on replies while
boards of directors and executive
committees were consulted as to
whether or not the local group ould
participate. In an few cases, letters
came back saying that their organi-
zation already had a project of their
own in Germany. Others replied that
they were enthusiastic and that they
wished to begin immediately.

The Department of Army's Public
Information Division in Washington,
cooperating in publicizing the
project, placed spot announcements
on 2,300 radio stations throughout the
United States. After only a few weeks,
results of these broadcasts were seen.
Letters began to arrive at the EUCOM
GYA office in Heidelberg from all
parts of the United States. Some of
the people who listened to the broad-
cast needed additional explanatory
letters. Others heard the message cor-
rectly the first time and wrote, for
example, “I belong to the Methodist
Youth Fellowship. We have decided
that we want to be a part of ‘Youth
Helps Youth.’ Please find us a German
group with whom we can
respond.”

The success of the project can be
measured by the volume of litters

(Continued next page)

cor-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
coming from the United States. Each
letter makes it possible, through post
and major command GYA officer, to
say to another eager German youth
group: “This is to be your American
correspondent, Now you may write
your first letter to them.”

The net-score to date of American
groups which have actually been
paired up with German groups is
about 350, The GYA section will not
feel that the project has really been
well established until at least 1,000
groups have contacted each other.

The benefits to German and Amer-
ican youth which can be realized
from the “Youth Helps Youth’ pro-
ject are many. Aside from the fact
that American groups will be send-
ing boxes of supplies to Germany
for youth groups to use in their club
activities, there should be a develop-
ment of friendly understanding
between young Americans and Ger-
mans. And this is a step, GYA be-
lieves, in the direction toward inter-
national understanding and tolerance.

F + END

Cultural Service

The functions and responsibilities
of the nine Education and Cultural
Service Centers located in the US
area of occupation have been broad-
ened in scope so that these centers
can serve all educational fields of
Military Government, previously the
Service Centers have been limited
primarily to the writing and prepar-
ation of textbooks and materials of
instruction as well as to the develop-
ment of curricula and courses of
study.

In the future the Education and
Cultural Service Centers will provide
materials and facilities for workshop
projects, discussion groups, research,
school publications, radio, film, and
other teaching aids for the use of
education, youth activities, theater
and music, women's affairs, and
similar MG activities.

It is planned that each of the nine
centers will have at least one branch
center within the geographical area
it serves, so that every part of the
US-occupied area will be within
reasonable distance of either a main
center or a branch.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

WO years ago, a few Nuremberg

boys suggested to some Americans
stationed in Nuremberg that they
would like to become members of
a club in which German and American
youth could meet on a basis of
equality. The idea had wide appeal,
and from the suggestion a German-
American Youth Club was formed in
December 1946, growing to its present
membership of several hundred.

The club program includes many
fields of democratic interest. On all
evenings except Wednesdays small
groups meet to study languages and
to persue special hobbies. A chamber
music group, a jazz band, a dramatic
society and hiking and sports groups
are all part of the general activities.

But the club’s main attraction is
free discussion in which members of
the German and American com-
munities participate equally. These
Wednesday night forums draw large
crowds and arouse considerable in-

terest. On the eve of the Nuremberg
City Council elections, for example,
the club invited the local chairmen
of the five political parties to take
part in a forum, Each speaker was
given the opportunity to be heard
and to explain his party's views, ‘

A recent opinion poll showed that
there is practically no topic which,
if treated in an interesting manner,
would not draw a crowd and provoke
a vigorous discussion: it is not only
Germany's political future, the atom
bomb or student life in America these
boys and girls wish to learn about,
but also modern art or authors whose
works they were not permitted to
read during the Nazi regime. They
like to match their wits against one
another in a typical American quiz
program, often teaming up in friendly
competition with the students of the
US Dependents’ School.

However, one problem is a lack of
inclination to assume personal respon-

--- Page 20 ---
jbilities. There are a few dozen
youngsters who work hard on the
(dub programs while several hundred
it back and enjoy the fruits of the
others’ labor. The attempts which
have been made to “activate” those
who only come and listen, who only
ead the club paper but never write
fr it, who enjoy discussions but
sldom put questions or give answers,
show that success along those lines
an be expected only after long and
jatient endeavors. These young people,
vho had been told to “obey” and to
follow’ their leaders for more than a
iecade, have lost self-confidence to
sich an extent that now, when they
we expected to think and talk on
heir own, they hesitate to seize the
ipportunity.

Another handicap is that the
American and Allied members are so
eatly outnumbered by the Germans.
There are only a handful of young
ersons in the US community as
ompared with the tens of thousands
German youngsters in the Nurem-
‘rg-Fuerth area. German youth, for
om all contacts with the outside
rd having been cut off for so long,
i more eager than are the youth of
wher nations to broaden their out-

look and to meet people from foreign
countries. Nevertheless, Americans
also benefit from meeting people
whose backgrounds and points of view
are different from their own.

Those older persons who have given
ideas and guidance to the German
American Youth Club would not
claim that their project has worked
miracles upon the youth of Nurem-
berg. The material and moral collapse
of Hitlers Germany left them in a
state of utter disappointment and dis-
illusionment. They are still filled with
a profound skepticism towards political
and ideological ‘education.’ But the
club can point to a positive achieve-
ment: progress in teaching its members
openmindedness to listen and to learn
and a desire to seek a democratic
course.

The information and _photo-
graphs for this article were fur-
nished by Mr. Hans Lamm of the
staff of the Office of Chief of
Counsel for War Crimes. Being
American chairman of the club,
he is assisted by several Ameri-
cans of the OCCWC staff in spon-
soring its activities.

(Left above) Members of Nuremberg's Ger-
man-Amterican Youth Club are given health
examinations during summer camp season

in Bavaria (Boss). (middle above) Youth
groups, the German-American Youth Club
included, meet for a city-wide demonsira-
tion in favor of keeping open nearby youth
hostels (Dena). (above) German - American
Youth Club cooperates with other city
youth groups. Here, members listen to
Falcon club leader invited to speak at their
mevting (US Army). (below) Boys and girls
enjoy 1947 carnival party, planned and
held by members at club house (US Army}.
(middle below) Club members hear talks on
the purpose of the Nuremberg trials in
Allied courtroom (US Army). (left below) At
a general discussion meeting, club members
meet with students from American high
school in Nuremberg (Dena).

--- Page 21 ---
JEIA PLAN PERMITS FREER TRADE.

Single Certificate Replaces All Previous Official Forms Required ~
Of Exporters; Business Warned to Conserve Foreign Exchange

A new export procedure for the US
and British Zones, which came into
force on Dec, 1, was announced
Nov. 19 by Mr. William John Logan,
director general of the Joint Export
Import Agency. Although JEIA is
now a tripartite body, this procedure
does not apply for the present in the
French Zone and in Berlin. The prin-
cipal points in Mr. Logan's statement
follows.

HE purpose of the new procedure

is to reduce red-tape and to allow
German manufacturers and traders to
export with less interference from
either Military Government or Ger-
man governments than has been ne-
cessary in the past.

When the first JEIA export proce-
dure was issued in the spring of 1947,
the total exports of the Bizone amount-
ed to less than $15,000,000 a month;
today they are running at the rate of
$60,000,000 a month. Despite this grat-
ifying increase, we feel sure that our
procedures have often hampered the
developement of export trade,

The basic cause of the complexity
of our procedure was the absence in
Germany of a currency which had any
real value. Some of our critics seem
to have failed to grasp that funda-
mental fact. It was no use telling a
German to get the best possible price
for his exports; because on the one
hand, he himself received only a con-
trolled price in Reichsmarks and, on
the other, he - didn't really want
Reichsmarks anyway. Therefore, we
in JEIA had to look at every sale and
to try to check that the price which
Germany was to receive was a fair
market price.

ODAY the situation is very dif-

ferent. The Deutsche mark has a
real value and is, I hope, not too
plentiful. Manufacturers, merchants
and traders want Deutsche marks. It
is, therefore, now in their interest to
obtain the proper price for their
exports in order to earn Deutsche

INFORMATION BULLETIN

marks, and we are, in consequence,
able to discontinue intervention by
JEIA.

In 1947, moreover, the German
banking system could not have hand-
led any volume of foreign business.
The JEIA had to do that too. Today
there is no longer any need for JEIA
to undertake that function. The
Aussenhandelsbanken (Foreign Ex-
change Banks) and the Bank Deutscher
Laender (Bank of German States) can
do it for us.

Finally, in 1947, there were such
acute shortages in every part of the
economic life of the country that we
had to take care that only those things
were exported which we could afford
to export. Today, again, the picture
is very different. There are certainly
still shortages; but they are far less
numerous and far less acute, and we
are able to allow many types of goods
to be exported quite freely.

It was with these ideas in mind
that we sat down, shortly after the
currency reform (June 20) to draft a
new export procedure. That our ideas
have taken so long to come to fruition
is unfortunate; but there have been
many details to be cleared up and
many new arrangements to be made.
We could not have started before the
currency reform, because such a fun-
damentally new procedure could only
be possible if that reform was
successful.

ASICALLY, the new procedure is

a very simple one. Anyone who
wishes to make an export contract
may do so without reference either to
JEIA or to a German governmental
authority provided he obeys the rules
laid down in the new instruction,

In a limited list of cases, he must,
however, before he can obtain per-
mission to export, refer either to JEIA
or to a German authority. But this is
really a limited list and we hope to
make it shorter rather than longer as
time goes on. Over a wide range of
manufactured goods there is complete

18

freedom to export without govern-
mental interference.

That does not mean, of course, that
individual exporters can keep the
foreign exchange which their exports
earn and spend it as they please, All
the foreign exchange which we can
earn from German exports is needed
for imports which will be used by
everybody. The foreign exchange
earned must all be put, therefore, into
a common pool.

In order to achieve this, we require
every exporter to register his export
in advance with an Aussenhandels-
bank and to obtain from that bank a
certificate that he has done so, This
certificate, which is called an Export
Control Document, serves also as an
export license and exports will be
stopped at the frontier unless they are
accompanied by it. By means of the
Export Control Document we shall
know how much and what kinds of
foreign exchange we should be earning
from exports and we shall be able to
check up on individual exporters who
do not produce foreign exchange to
match the Export Control Documents
issued to them....

HIS single certificate, the Export

Control Document, replaces all
the previous forms required by JEIA.
Exporters will still, of course, have to
furnish their customers with normal
commercial documents, invoices, bills
of lading, etc. But for control pur-
poses, one document only is re-
quired....

In abandoning our rigid controls we
are taking great risks. We take the
risk (though this is not, of course, a
new one) that exporters will try to
smuggle their goods abroad without
an Export Control Document so that
they may personally enjoy the bene-~
fits of the foreign exchange which they _
may earn. They may, too, put fic-°
litious prices in the Export Control
Document in order to keep a part of
the exchange earned out of the hands
of the Bank Deutscher Laender. Such

(Continued on page 29) ke

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 22 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

Review of DP Film

Gunter Groll reviewed the Jewish
DP picture “Long Is the Boad,” one
of the most discussed German postwar
films, in the Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Munich), He thought it ended on a
false note by idealizing the surviving
Jews—'The Munich citizen who still
is frightened when he passes DP’s on
‘the street at night will be skeptical

about this bathos of pedagogic
optimism’—but otherwise highly
approved:

“Nobody will remain untouched by
the fair and forgiving attitude of this
film which in a brief but decisive
scene juxtaposes the fate of expelled
Jews and the misfortune of German
refugees, The film thereby becomes a
manifesto against injustice and against
all crimes against humanity which

_ were committed first against the Jews

_and later against the Germans.
}

_ "How can peace come,’ says the
Jewish hero of the film, ‘if nobody
wants to stop hating?’ They don't stop.
There still is a lot of collective hatred
of the Germans in the world. There
si are Germans who applauded
(when this film was shown in Berlin)
at the view of the Auschwitz crem-
atorium and who shouted: ‘Not
enough of them were killed!’ They
wont's stop .. ."

The review was titled: “Liquidate
| the Camps!" and that was the note on
_ which it ended:
“Liquidate the camps!... Liquidate
them whether they are concentration
_ camps, PW, internement, DP or re-
fugee camps—they all together are
the shame of our age. When the DP's
at last can emigrate wherever they
Want to, when the refugees at last
have homes again and normal living
Conditions, when the guilty ones
among the interned have at last been
Sentenced by due process of law and
the others dismissed, when the PW’s
Teturn and when there are nowhere in
the world conditions which even re-
_Motely resemble concentration camps,
only then a small part of the wrong

DECEMBER 14, 1948

Youth Have Own Work

The Badische Neueste Nach-
richten (Karlsruhe, Wuerttemberg-
Baden) published an answer by a
young German to charges that
modern German youth neglect
their political duty:

“Tt isn’t cowardice or lack of
interest which keeps us away
from political meetings. Our con-
fidence in theory is shaken to
the roots... We want work!...
Contented workmen have always
been the best support for a
state... We are prepared for
wholesome _ reeducation. We
know that only hard work can
save Germany. But spare us the
dismal fate of becoming casual
laborers.., That is the essence
of our fears... We want deeds,
not words. Have the courage for
initiative! The rhythm of the
times has changed and can no
longer be ruled by bureaucratic
red-tape. Let youth have its say
and its part. Be resolute in action
and you will find youth beside
you.”

accumulated during the war will have
disappeared. But ‘the road is long!’..”

Refugee Problem

In a post-mortem on the short-lived
hunger strike of German expellees in
the German camp at Dachau, the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) said
the refugee problem concerns not
only Germany but the whole world:

“Nobody has denied that there
were abuses in camp Dachau... But
hardly a non-Bavarian newspaper
found it necessary to mention the
fact that the number of refugees liv-
ing in Bavarian camps has risen from
18,000 to 110,000 in a few weeks....
30,000 are still being expected this
year....

“These uprooted and disinherited
people are being radicalized with
terrifying speed, and dubious in-

19

dividuals who hithert6 lived behind
the Iron Curtain have already started
to organize them politically under
application of terror methods... Ger-
mans have been forbidden to ma-
nufacture gunpowder. Yet the world
looks on while an enormous powder
barrel is being created that will blow
up in its face one of these days...”

The Augsburger Tagespost (Augs-
burg, Bavaria) admitted bureaucratic
mistakes in the treatment of refugees
and Bavarian inability to cope with
the problem as long as other states
do not carry their share of the burden,
But it suspected the chairman of the
Dachau “control committee,” who de-
manded the resignation of the govern-
ment and new elections, of being a
communist. The paper said:

“The radio stations in the Russian
Zone reported at great length on the
Dachau developments even (the same)
evening... This friendship seems
suspicious. The attitude of the in-
digenous population toward the re-
fugees is being vitiated by a new
poison... the poison of political
distrust....

“The Bavarian government will not
resign and the Bavarian legislature
will not dissolve itself because the
‘control committee’ of the refugees
is dissatisfied with them... If one
really wants to improve conditions it
is a gross mistake to rub one’s fist
under the nose of those who are
otherwise willing enough to help the
expellees,”

Hitler Articles Assailed

The Frankfurter Neue Presse deplored
the appearance of Hitler articles in
current publications, American es
well as German: "Weekend (American
privately published Magazine in
Frankfurt) presents Adolf and Eva;
DENA keeps pumping its series ‘Is
Hitler Alive?’ over its broadcasting
station into editorial offices; the case
of Wochenend (Nuremberg; its publi-
cation of ‘Eva Braun's Diary’ was
stopped by a court order) is still

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
pending and now the Neue Frank-
furter Illustrierte neatly puts together
that which we thought had been
atomized under the Reich Chancellory
tubbish and presents it to its readers
for 50 pfennigs...

“No doubt this all merely good
business... But we fear the effect
on countless readers in whose minds
these personalities are still fresh...
A picture like that of Hitler gallantly
and smartly kissing the hand of Yugo-
slavias’s queen might easily again stir
sensitive feminine hearts. Such publi-
cations are downright dangerous if
one bears in mind the weaknesses of
the German character.”

The Werra Rundschau (Eschwege)
replied to the article in the Frank-
furter Neue Presse, saying:

“The Neue Frankfurter Illustrierte,
published by us, particularly aroused
the indignation of the Frankfurter

Neue Presse... We consider it
beneath our dignity to defend our-
selves against the imputation that we
were motivated by base business
considerations...

“However, we object to the dis-
Paragement of the German people
contained in FNP’s remark that such
publications are undesirable in view
of ‘typical German weaknesses’...
We do not believe that the sight of

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board for the Inform-
ation Services Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
portray what the Germans are
writing und thinking, and not
necessarily to give any concur-
rence to their views and opinions.

brilliant uniforms will revive a love
of war in our people... The ruins
and the cripples that are everyday
sights in our streets effectively
prevent that... If we are to find he
tight way in the future we must be
thoroughly acquainted with the
history of our recent past and study
it critically.”

Relaxation of Trade Controls

The Schwaebische Post (Aalen,
Wiirttemberg-Baden) called the newly-
announced relaxation of foreign trade
controls a big step forward: “The most
important change is the practically
complete freedom of individual ex-
ports. The licensing system prevailing
hitherto is dispensed with . .. This
will result in greatly developing
German export business initiative
and will contribute much to increasing
foreign trade turnover.”

Germans Show Little Interest in West State’s Designation

EVEN in ten US Zone residents

favored the establishment of a
provisional government for western
Germany, but the majority did not
care whether the now organization
should be called an “administration”
or a “government,” according to
recent studies by the Opinion Surveys
Branch of the Information Services
Division, OMGUS.

The polls sought to ascertain the
extent to which the people in the US
area of control shared the concern of
many German politicians over calling
the proposed new authority a "gov-
ernment.” This concern had prevailed
ever since last June when the United
States, United Kingdom, France and
the Benelux countries recommended
that the three western zones of Ger-
many set up a provisional authority.

In releasing the results of the sur-
veys, Col. Gordon E. Textor, ISD
director, pointed out that they gave
little support to the claims of German
politicians that the term “government”
would arouse unfavorable reactions in
the minds of the German people.

Four in ten US Zone residents ex-
pressed, a preference—24 percent
favored “government” and 18 percent
were for “administration.” However,
the strongest following for “govern-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ment’ was in Bavaria with 27 percent,
of the states total in favor, as against
17 percent for “administration.” The
other two states and the US Sector
of Berlin were evenly divided, while
the people of Bremen were 27 percent
for “administration” as contrasted with
23 percent for “government.”

The surveys indicated that the
majority of those who favored “gov-
ernment” did so with the idea that
this term carried implications of
“greater power, responsibility and
prestige in the governmental concep-
tion.” This sentiment was strongest
in Berlin where 73 percent gave this
reason as against 66 percent in the
three states of the US Zone and
63 percent in Bremen.

OST supporters of the term

“administration” over “govern-
ment” gave the explanation that ‘one
cannot speak of a government as long
as Germany is controlled by the
Western Powers,” and that “there can
be no mention of a government as
long as the whole of Germany is not
united." A small minority favored
“administration” on the argument that
a western organization was only a
temporary solution and that a gov-
ernment presumably could make uni-

20

fication with eastern Germany im-
possible.

The surveys also indicated that of
the seven-in-ten persons who ad-
vocated the proposed new authority,
half did so because they thought Ger-
many needed her own government.
About 15 percent in the American
zone believed that a new government
would improve economic conditions,
while five percent of the government's
Berlin supporters’ regarded it as a
bulwark against Russian control.

Although majority opinion believed
the proposed German authority should
handle Germany's foreign trade, two-
thirds of the US Zone residents felt
that, if the Western Powers were to
remain in control, they would keep
Germany’s interests in mind. Even
greater confidence was shown in
Berlin where 85 percent thought the
West would safeguard German in-
terests.

Missionaries to South Africa
A group of 12 Catholic missionary
sisters, the first missionaries to depart
from the US Zone, left Bamberg, Ba-
varia, for South Africa to engage in
missionary activities there.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 24 ---
HEN the Ritter’s Park Hotel

opened its doors in Bad Hom-
burg last March, it launched a unique
official’ program to make Germany
available to visitors from other
countries.

Until that time, foreign travelers in
the US Zone, closely restricted as to
number and duration of stay, lived
under similar conditions as occupa-
tion personnel, They lived in Army
billets, ate in Army messes and travel-
ed in Army transportation.

This system served well enough at
first. A country struggling to dig itself
out from the ruins of war was in no
position to put out the welcome mat
for foreigners, Other than official
guests of the occupation powers on
military or political missions, the first
foreign visitors were a trickle of
businessmen seeking to participate in
the initial efforts at reviving German
foreign trade. Trade at that time was
entirely in the hands of the military
governments. Even these guests,
therefore, had ‘a quasi-official status
and it was no difficulty to accom-

— Sponsored by JEIA

modate them in the facilities available
for the Allied forces.

Later, it became possible for close
relatives of Germans to visit here for
compassionate reasons, but it was the
responsibility of their hosts to provide
for them within the German economy.
And tourists were no problem because
there were no tourists.

ITH the reestablishment of com-

munication lines, the rebuilding
of factories, the reopening of shops,
trade started to increase and
with trade, inevitably, comes travel.
Restrictions on the entry of foreign
businessmen into the Bizonal Area
were gradually relaxed. Quotas for
foreign visitors were abolished. Limi-
tations on the length of time they
were permitted to stay were length-
ened.

As the travelers increased, so did
the problem of accommodating them.
Army billeting and messing facilities,
scaled according to a rather constant

Photography by Al Byers, JEIA

number of occupation personnel, could
not absorb the ever-increasing number
of visitors. And the German economy,

with its drastic food and housing
shortages, could not take care of
them.

To meet this situation, the Joint
Export Import Agency, which controls
the foreign trade of the three western
zones, evolved its “dollar hotel" pro-
gram. This plan was inaugurated
early in 1948 in cooperation with the
European Command, which derequi-
sitioned one of the better hotels in
or near each of seven major cities in
the US Zone. The hotels were re-
furnished and redecorated, equipped
to offer comforts and conveniences
of a high standard, and were licensed
by JEIA and German ministries to
operate for foreign travelers only.

After the Ritter's Park was reopened
to serve the Frankfurt area, six other
hotels followed in quick succession:
the Grunewald in Wiesbaden, the
Augusta in Augsburg, the Park in

(Continued next page)

Augusta Hotel, Augsburg, was not damaged during the
war. It has a total of 32 beds for use foreign visitors.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

21

Ritter's Park Hotel located in Bad
Homburg,

suburb of Frankfurt.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Nuremberg, the Four Seasons in
Munich, the Ketterer in Stuttgart and
the Karpfen in Karlsruhe.

HE immediate success of these

hotels encouraged JEIA to seek
more and to turn its attention to
accommodations for another class of
visitor—the tourist. While additional
establishments were being opened to
take care of the overflow in the larger
cities, smaller hotels in the Alps and
other resort areas were licensed in
the first real push to set Germany's
once-flourishing tourist traffic rolling
again. Bavaria alone has more than
60 hotels which once were part of
the great German tourist trade.

Altogether there are now about 120
hotels for foreigners in the US Zone,
with more to be added. The rooms
and meals offered cover a wide range
of tastes and expense allowances.
Among the urban hotels, the Four
Seasons and the Ritter’s Park at the
top of, the price range, average about
DM 12 ($3.60) per room per night, and
DM 14 or 15 ($4.20-4.50) for three table
d'hote meals a day. The modest, but
neat and comfortable Karpfen hotel
charges about DM 7 ($2.10) for a room
and about DM 11 ($3.30) for a day's
meals, The Ketterer is about the same
for meals and about half-way between
for rooms.

Resort hotels in the Bavarian Alps
are generally scaled somewhat lower,
but still allow considerable latitude.
For example, the Hotel Drei Mohren
at the world-famous winter sports
center of Garmisch, lists rooms at an
average price of DM9 ($2.70) per
night, and three meals a day at
DM 11.50 ($3.45). Some eight miles
away, at Oberammergau, site of the
renowned passion play, a tourist can
stay at the Haus Friedenshoehe at a
cost of DM 4.50 ($1.35) for his room
and DM7 ($2.10) a day for meals. At
approximately the same price level is
the Hotel Sonne at Sonthofen, in the
Lake Constance area, where the charge
for a day's meals is the same, and a
room can be obtained for DM3.50
($1.05).,

Tourist accommodations are also
available again at such well known
spots as the cure town of Bad
Kissingen; 1000-year-old Dinkelsbuehl;

(Continued next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Four Seasons Hotel can provide
120 beds for tourists, businessmen.

22

Ketterer Hotel, Stuttgart, is am

120 JEIA-sponsored hotels in

DECEMBER 14,

&

--- Page 26 ---
medieval, walled Rothenburg 0. Tbr;,
and the Alpine lake resort of Tegern-
see.

OTELS for foreigners in the US

Zone are often referred to as
“JEIA hotels" or ‘JEIA-operated
hotels,” but JEIA does not operate
any German business. It does, how-
ever license the German owners to
operate the hotels for foreign travelers.
Under the present procedure, the
foreigner buys D-mark devisen (foreign
exchange) coupons with dollar in-
struments at the rate of 30 cents to
the Deutsche-mark, and the dollars go
into the JEIA fund to finance imports
for the German economy. The visitor's

, ‘ . expenses at the hotel are reckoned in
As in Augusta Hotel, much of the foodstuffs for the JEIA-sponsored marks, but he pays in coupons which
hotels is purchased and imported from surrounding European countries,

the hotel management redeems with
JEIA for the equivalent in D-marks.
Otherwise, the establishment is con-
ducted like any other German
business.

Devisen coupons are sold through
the American Express Company,
Cooks, the Deutsche Reisebuero
(German Travel Office) and at the
hotels themselves. As they may be
bought by any one with dollar in-
struments, hotel guests may be
business travelers, tourists or occu-
pation personnel. The hotels are open
to all three groups and to Germans,
too.

An experiment tried last August at
: : : the Augusta Hotel in accommodating
ugusta Hotel: Foreign visitors Augusta Hotel: Dollar profit goes both Germans and foreigners proved
ay their expenses with coupons. into JEIA fund to finance imports. so successful that all JEIA-licensed

hotels were made available to bona-
fide German travelers as well as
foreigners. However, except in the
Bavarian tourist establishments, where
only a set number of beds are
reserved for foreigners, priority must
be given to the foreign guests as they
pay in devisen coupons which produce
dollar credits for the German economy.

OUSING accommodations are the

same for Germans and foreigners,
but there are two separate menus,
depending on how the check is to be
paid. The Germans, paying in marks
and surrendering ration coupons, may
eat only foods available on the Ger-
man market and which may be bought
: for marks. Certain nonrationed Ger-
Hessian hotel operators and Julian A. Hillman (seated right), OMG man foods are available to the
Hesse JEIA chief, sign licenses involving hotels. (PIO, OMGH) (Contismed: on page 29)

DECEMBER 14, 1948 23 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
(Continued from page 4)

Four Christmases

but I am not yet quite accustomed to
the Christmas tree. But listen—there
are the Christmas singers. We must
give them something.”

RS. BERGMANN opened the

door. Several of the carolers
held up pictures of the Virgin. Mrs.
Bergmann passed them nuts and fruits.
One of the group was wrapped in a
sheet and his friends were laughing
and chasing him. Edith wanted to
know about him,

“He is like the bell ghost,” her
father said. “Long ago people thought
there were witches riding through the
air and fields at Christmas. Now the
boy pretends he is a spirit. Super-
stitions are leaving Germany. I wish
all our old wornout ways were fading
with them...”

Mrs. Bergmann adjusted the cush-
ions as he settled back in his chair.
“Try not to think about it tonight,
Heinrich,” she urged. “After all, the
assembly may not fail. Why are you
so sure?”

“We are divided. Some of us want
a king, some want a constitution;
some want Austria in the German fed-
eration, ohters do not; one religious
faith will not cooperate with another.
After we have argued until we are
tired, I believe Federick William will
take control again.”

His wife took him by the arm. “Stop
worrying, Heinrich, and let us all go
to bed. The children are tired and I
hear another group of singers coming.
We must put out the lights, for if I
give more fruit and nuts tonight we
will have none left for tomorrow.”

Dr. Bergmann’‘s prediction came
true. The Frankfurt Assembly,
meeting from May 1848 until May
1849, did fail to liberalize Frederick
William's government, mainly
because delegates could not agree
among themselves, Elsewhere
history was marching. The first
great international peace confer-
ence met in Brussels, Other coun-
tries of Europe rebelled against
autocratic and unhumanistic rule.
But the German people became
disillusioned about government
reform and, hemmed in by reac-

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

tion, the delegates lost faith in
their ability to liberalize their gov-
ernment, The ideas of 1848 lived,
but Germany turned toward yet
another century of autocratic rule
and war.

Iv.

FEW days before Christmas 1948,

Friedrich and his brother Joseph
were walking through the Christmas
fair at Reichskanzlerplatz in Berlin.
To each side of them were booths
displaying goods brighter than most
Germans had seen in four years—chil-
dren's books and pictures; jewelry,
metal toys along with many kinds of
wooden ones, and even clothing and
furniture.

“If grandfather were here,” said
Friedrich as they walked along, “he
would say that it reminded him of the
Berlin fair when he was a boy. He
used to tell how the streets were
bright with lights and lined with
booths selling dolls and marzipan and
thousands of toys of all sizes. Some-
times he would see a big coach pas-
sing slowly bringing young princes
and princesses of the Royal House to
see the fair. I wish I could have lived
then.”

“Not I,” replied Joseph to his older
brother, “I don't mean that I like life
today with cold houses, men out of
work and all the daily uncertainties.
But there is so much to be done. I tell
you, the youth of no country ever
had such an opportunity.”

Friedrich laughed bitterly. ‘“You are
dreaming, Joseph. Old men and
foreigners hold this country's future
in their hands—"

“—and young people. We are learn-
ing fast, Friedrich. We will take our
place.”

They stopped beside the display of
electric trains. Beneath a huge Ad-
vent's garland, decorated with scarlet
ribbons, spread an oval platform
criss-crossed with toy tracks. Children
and their parents pressed against the
railing to watch the train switch rails,
plunge through tunnels and emerge to
pick up new cars.

Friedrich stopped at a booth to look
at woolen coats. “I'll get one for my
little girl if you'll cut the price in
half,” he said dourly to the salesgirl.

24

“Ah, but Sir, it is one-third wool,”
she answered, “and that is hard to
find in Berlin.”

HE two brothers walked on, push.

ing their way through crowds of
old people, groups of excited school
children and parents carrying little
ones.

“Mother tells me you are getting
mixed up in politics,” Friedrich said,
“She wanted me to warn you against
it, but I suppose your mind js
made up.”

Jacob smiled. ‘I have tried to make
her understand,” he answered, “but
poor mother lives in a perpetual state
of sadness. Many of us have not risen
out of our cloud of gloom in years,
I was disillusioned too, after the
war—so disillusioned that now I am
sick of feeling sorry for myself. Now
it is time to be doing something. In
politics I can work for what I hope
will bring a better life for us all."

His brother looked at him sidewise.
“You mean you'll give up school?"

“Of course not. But at school we
have formed a club to work with the
political leaders—"

“But have you counted the cost?”
his brother interrupted. “What if the
things you believe in are shouted
down later? I think it's better to mind
one’s own business.”

“The older folk tried that before,”
Jacob answered, “ten years ago. What
have I to lose? And if we should
succeed-—eventually—in creating a
Germany that leads in ways of
peace...”

His brother stopped him at a booth.
For Friedrich’s daughter they bought
a small Christmas pyramid made of
paper, and then started home.

“When I was her age,” Friedrich
said, “I liked a Christmas pyramid as
well as a tree, anyway.” -+END

Educational Relief Materials

The Committee for Distribution of
Cultural Material of the US Zone's
Council of States Central Committee
received almost two tons of educatio-
nal relief materials during October.
The Contributions came from the
Smithsonian Institute in Washington,
D.C., and from the Robesonian In-
stitute of Lumberton, N.C.

DECEMBER 14 1948

--- Page 28 ---
MGO’s Daily Work

Transcript from AFN Stuttgart

The daily work of a Military Gov-
ernment Officer (MGO) in any county
in Wuerttemberg-Baden was drama-
tized over AFN Stuttgart Nov. 19 in a
program entitled ‘Your Commander
Speaks —.” Participating in the pro-
gram were Mr. Charles M. LaFollette,
state director of OMG* Wuerttemberg-
Baden; Mr. Eugene Walters, chief of
the Field Relations Division, OMGWB,
and Mr. Nathan Malchman, AFN com-

mentator. Transcript of the program
follows.
LaFollette: I have had the feeling

that many of our occupation personnel
have only vague impressions of the
mission of a field Military Govern-
ment Officer down in a small county
or Landkreis. Most persons seem to
think he has much direct power
over the German local administration;
whereas he has none at all. Then
few begin to realize the tremendous
responsibilities that fall on his shoul-
ders in the all important reorientation
program.

Malchman: How many field Military
Government Offices are there in
Wuerttemberg-Baden?

Walters: Twenty-nine—one for every
landkreis and city.*

Malchman: How many men do you
have in each detachment?

Walters: That varies directly with the
size of the county, In Stuttgart, for
instance, we have four Americans, but
in counties such as Buchen, only one.
Malchman: Didn't they used to be
much larger?

Walters: Yes, back at the end of the

war our biggest detachment numbered

80 officers and men. That was when

+++. (fade out). (Dramatic factual voice
Comes in clearly.)

Announcer: The month was May in
the year 1945—the most devastating
War in history was drawing to a close.
Germany was in chaos with in-

dustries, homes and human lives lying
EST

* See “Station List’ on page 31.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

in wreckage. But the German people
started to build again—to bring from
the ruins of Germany a new industry
in Heilbronn, a home in Sinsheim, a
farmer's barn in Mergentheim—and
with it a new outlook on life, vague
hopes of principles of freedom and a
future place in the nations of the
world—when they started working
again amidst the wreckage of 1945
they found beside them American
Military Government—there to guide
and assist them. Then came 1946 and
gradually conditions
were running again, trucks were on
the highways carrying food from the
fields to the cities, and in every little
village, every community, life slowly
returned to normal. With these
changes there came changes in Mili-
tary Government too. Except for a few
instances the Military Government
Officers relinquished all responsibility
for the actual administration of gov-
ernmental affairs in his Kreis. It
remained for him to advise and assist
the Landrat and the Buergermeisters,
to guide these elected officials and to
see that they carried out their duties
in an efficient and democratic
manner.” Oh, yes, there have been
changes, many changes in Military
Government since 1945, but we can
best show you what we mean by
paying a visit to one of the many
Military Government Liaison and
Security Offices in Wuerttemberg-
Baden. So come with us to the Military

* See “MG in the Field’ in Information
Bulletin, Issue No, 78, Feb. 3, 1947.

Glossary of Terms
A jew German and technical terms, in
common use in occupation discussions,
appear in this program. These may be
translated as follows:

Kreis . . 4. county
Landkreis rural county
Stadtkreis Based? aaa awelty
Landrat | county administrator
Buergermeister . ? mayor
Buerger : villager
Gemeinde... . . . . community
MGO . . Military Government Oificer
OMG | Office of Military Government
DM. . Deutsche mark (German money)

25

settled—trains ©

Government office in your own
Landkreis, and as we enter the door
we hear — (fade out).
Secretary (to MGO): Sir, the Landrat
is here to see you. May I show
him in?
MGO: Yes, please do.
Malchman (whispered): Pardon my
ignorance, Mr. LaFollette, but what's
a Landrat?
LaFollette (hushed): He’s the chief
county executive. He has considerably
more power here than any county
official at home,
MGO (to Landrat): Good day, Herr
Landrat. How are you?
Landrat: Very well, Major. We are
having fine weather for the crop
today. Have you a few spare minutes?
I'd like to discuss a few questions
with you.
MGO: Very good. Please have a seat.
Landrat: Thank you. The first matter
I would like to discuss with you is
the problem of the Buergermeister
elections. Three elections in the Kreis
will have to be run again. In Steindorf
and Reinfeld none of the candidates
received a majority vote, and in
Erlendorf there appear to be a
number of violations of the election
laws. I have appointed an unbiased
committee to investigate the matter
and report the results to my office.
Do you have any further suggestions?
MGO: No. As far as I can see you
are following the proper procedure
under German law. You know that
unless there are irregularities that
would concern Military Government
directives, the whole affair should be
handled by you. Incidentally, Herr
Landrat, I noticed that Eichenberg
seems to be doing an outstanding job
in housing the expellees. What do you
think?
Landrat: Yes, I had the same im-
pression and I intended to bring up
this point today. The Buergermeister
there has taken a number of steps
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
which have materially improved the
relationship between the old and new
Buergers in his Gemeinde, and I
believe that this fact should be
publicized so that other Buerger-
meisters might be induced to follow
his example.

MGO: That's an excellent idea; how
do you plan to do this?

Landrat: I intend to bring it to the
attention of all the Buergermeisters
at our next meeting, for one thing.
MGO: That's good. Perhaps you could
also get the newspapers interested
and publicize the good work a little
more broadly. You could invite news-
paper reporters to inspect conditions
in this Gemeinde and have them see
for themselves the improvement. It
would inspire not only Buerger-
meisters of our Kreis but the people
too.

Landrat: Yes, I hadn't thought of that.
That could easily be arranged. In the
meantime I have another problem to
discuss with you. As you know,
Professor Schulz is one of the leading
educators in the Kreis. He has just
received an offer to attend a con-
ference on educational matters in
Switzerland and will need an exit
permit to get there. He hasn't much
time to get this permit since the con-
ference is in two weeks. Is it possible
to speed up the processing of his
papers?

MGO: Yes, Herr Landrat, fortunately
it is. I am glad you brought this
matter to my attention. Military
Government is trying to give not
only educators but business people
and officials the opportunity of seeing
what goes on in other countries and
the latest methods developed by these
countries. Just recently this matter
has been expedited, especially for
educators, and, if you will have
Professor Schulz stop by as soon as
possible, we shall see that his papers
are forwarded to the Educational and
Cultural Relations Division of Land
Military Government and processed
as soon as possible.

Landrat: Thank you very much, Major.
He will certainly appreciate this.
(Voices fade out. Announcer comes in.)
Malchman: Sounds to me like an MGO
must be expected to solve problems
like that Mr. Anthony once did over
the radio.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Walters: It often does seem that way.
You see, very frequently today the
Military Government Officer and his
family are the only Americans in a
county. To all the people there they
represent not only Military Govern-
ment in Germany but the entire
United States of America.

Malchman: An MGO's job sounds like
a tough assignment to me.

Walters: It is. And our MGO's realize
the pressure that is put on them
because of the peculiar situation. They
naturally do everything they can to
tepresent our democratic way of life
as it should be represented.

Now the mission of an MGO can be
stated briefly. It is:

1. To insure compliance by all con-
cerned with Military Government
laws and policies and to assist in their
implementation;

2. To observe, advise and assist
German governmental agencies in the
administration of German laws; and

3. To help promote the develop-
ment of democracy in Germany.

The last mission is by far the most
important. Obviously it is of little
value to help Germany rebuild
economically if it is going to be the
same old totalitarian-minded nation-
alistic state as before. The field
Military Government Officer is the
key to the democratization program.
At least once a week he represents
MG at a town meeting in his county.
He....

Malchman: Pardon me, but exactly
what happens at these town meetings?
LaFollette: Why don't we listen in on
one? (Fade out.)

ist Buerger: Herr Landrat, when the
damage done by wild boar is estimated
will the quota of. the whole com-
munity be reduced or only the quota
of the individual farmer?

Landrat: If there is legitimate crop
destruction by boar, then the quota
of both the farmer and the Gemeinde
will be reduced. If boar have eaten
all of a farmer's potatoes, then the
farmer, of course, cannot deliver
them. These arrangements, however,
are made by local authorities.

2nd Buerger: I have a question for
Military Government. We know that
America is sending over great amounts
of food which are distributed to the
people. But what happens to the

26

Deutsche marks which are paid for
this food? Who gets those DM?
MGO: At the present time food is
being imported into Germany with
funds appropriated by the US Congress
and with Marshall Plan funds. This
food goes to the German economy's
distribution system, from where it is
sold to the German people. The DM
resulting from the sale of this food
go into a blocked account which is
controlled by Military Government.
Plans are being prepared at present,
I understand, to put those blocked
accounts under the control ‘of the
Economic Council in Frankfurt and to
establish an agricultural credit bank
or some credit institution which will
extend credit to industry and agri-
culture.
3rd Buerger: I would like to ask a
question concerning the road between
here and Goetzingen (fade out).
Walters: And so it goes on into the
night. The Germans are beginning to
realize that their own public officials
are responsible to them. Questions
are aired, ideas stimulated.
Malchman: Do you have any idea
how many of these forums you have
held?
Walters: Over 600 now, I believe.
Malchman: How long have you been
doing this?
LaFollette: You know by now we just
quietly get our work done down here
in Wuerttemberg-Baden without any
fanfare. But for your information,
ihe concentrated program of town
meetings started in Wuerttemberg-
Baden* in December 1947, and so has
now been adapted in the other
Laender.
Walters: The democratization work of
the MGO does not end with the
forum. He frequently holds meetings—
sometimes called seminars—with lead-
ing officials on leading questions. His
advice and the assistance of Military
Government are constantly being
sought.
Malchman: There's just one thing that
bothers me about the MGO at those
forums.
Walters: What's that?
Malchman: How he can stand up
there and do such a good job of an-
(Continuel on page 32)

* See “Town Meetings in Information
Bulletin, Issue No. 140, July 27, 1948.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 30 ---
Freedom of the Press
From OMG’s “Voice of Hesse”

Legislative guarantees for protect-
ing the freedom of the press were out-
lined to the German people of the
state of Hesse in a special broadcast
prepared by the Information Services
Division, OMG Hesse, on the ‘Voice
of Hesse” program from Radio Frank-
furt. The broadcast offered guidance
in line with MG's recent instructions
for the elimination of newspaper li-
censing in those US Zone states which
enact legislation guaranteeing and
protecting freedom of the press in an
manner satisfactory to Military Gov-
ernment, Text of the broadcast
follows.

VER 150 years ago, Thomas Jef-

ferson, third President of the
United States and one of the authors
of the national Constitution, said:
“The basis of our government being
the opinion of the people, the very
first object should be to keep that
right; and were it left to me to decide
whether we should have a govern-
ment without newspapers or news-
papers without a government. I should
not hesitate a moment to prefer the
latter.”

The experience of the last 15 years
should enable the German people to
appreciate the full significance of
Jefferson's words, which express the
conviction of the original authors of
the American political system that
“the free society they were seeking
to establish could not exist without
free communication.”

It is one of the ironies of German
history that the very land which
brought forth one of the best methods
of transmitting information also
brought forth one of the strongest
methods of hindering information.
When Johann Gutenberg invented
movable type in 1445, he presented
the world with a mechanical means of
Communicating information to broad
Masses of people, prerequisite for the
development of democracy over a
large territory.

In 1933, however, thanks to the
forceful seizure of power from the

DECEMBER 14, 1948

people by a single party, Joseph
Goebbels was enabled to obtain
practical control of the printing fa-
cilities of Germany. Through his pro-
paganda ministry and its many sub-
sidiary organizations and complex
regulations, he converted the news-
papers into an instrument to enslave
the people to government. By abolish-
ing press freedom, he abolished the
people's watchdog over government....

HAOS and confusion greeted the

Allies upon their entry into Ger-
many. If it had been their purpose
to destroy Germany, they need not
have done anything about it. If it had
been their purpose to enslave Ger-
many, they could have made use of
the willing propaganda automations
of the previous regime to com-
municate their own brand of orders.
But their purpose was to lead Ger-
many back into the society of nations.
This meant, among others then, the
establishment of press freedom in
Germany. The goal was clear, the way
had to be found.

Thanks to the integrity of some
newspaper publishers in Germany,
whose opposition to the totalitarian
methods of Goebbels had brought his
forceful seizure of their undertakings
to the attention of the world, and
thanks to the efforts of patriotic Ger-
mans in the “emigration,” the exist-
ence of “Das andere Deutschland”
(The other Germany) was kown,
whatever might be its size or strength.
It was a natural conslusion on the
part of the Allies, then, to seek to
enlist the aid of these men in establish-
ing press freedom in Germany—men,
who by their past actions, had
established that their belief in press
freedom was no mere lip service to
a conquering power but was a result
of their own inner conviction.

An old English proverb says, “The
proof of the pudding is the eating
thereof.” Some test of the prepared-
ness of these men to work for press.
freedom had to be devised—a trial
period in which they and the German

27

people, operating within a limited
framework, could establish their
sincerety in doing away with “Gewalt-
herrschaft" (tyranny). So it was that
an admittedly undemocratic method,
the “licensing system," was employed
as a stepping stone to the point where
complete press freedom could be
established in Germany. It must be
emphasized here that this eventual
goal was one of the pre-conditions
upon which these democratic German
men and women accepted their li-
censes,

HE introduction to the policy in-

struction to all licensees in Ger-
man information services, which ac-
companies their license, states:

“Military Government believes that
free exchange of opinions and ideas
is basic to the establishment in Ger-
many of a democratic society in which
the individual is conscious of his re-
sponsibilities. To this end it is the
purpose of Military Government to
allow increasing freedom and respon-
sibilities in the information services at
such time and in such measure as
those responsible for the operation of
information service give evidence of
their readiness and fitness to assume
them.

“The length of the phases through
which the German press, theater,
publishing industry, etc., must pass in
order to qualify for complete freedom
will therefore depend, in part, on the
conduct of the licensees. Each licensee
is thus a trustee for a vital part of
Germany's future.”

In applying for and accepting a
license, he has affirmed his intention
to work in the public interest, to the
end that freedom under democracy
may be established.

VER three years have passed

since licenses were first issued
in Germany. By word and deed, most
of the licensees have established
their sincerety. So honorable have
been their efforts that, practically
speaking, the only restriction still
exercised today is, namely, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
artificial one of issuing the license
itself. In view of this, the time has
come to consider whether the promise
contained in the official instructions
to all licensees should not be kept
and still another step be taken—the
elimination of the undemocratic
measure: licensing itself.

The American Military Government
has decided that licensing will be
eliminated in those states whose le-
gislatures pass a law guaranteeing
press freedom satisfactorily enough
to warrant Military Government ap-
proval of the law. The time when
licensing will be eliminated therefore,
is dependent on the readiness of Ger-
man legislatures in the American zone
to pass a law satisfactorily guarantee-
ing freedom of the press.

For some people, unacquainted with
Military Government policy, this pro-
posal may come as a surprise. Some
may even think that Military Gov-
ernment has changed its policy. For
example, a speaker from the Hessian
government declared some time ago
over this very radio that the proposal
constituted “eine Schwenkung um
180 Grad" (reversal) in the policy of
Military Government. It should be
clear, however, from the aforemention-
ed citation from the policy instruction
to licensees that this proposal con-
stitutes no change in policy, but on
the contrary, is a forthright continu-
ation of the policy under which licen-
sing itself was established, namely,
the attainment of a point where all
licensing restrictions could be re-
moved.

HE right to free expression is not

entirely an “American” conception
and it is not new in Germany,
although the conception was “blacked
out” during the Third Reich. It was
Martin Luther in the “Schriften V. welt-
licher Obrigkeit" (Edition V. Secular
Authority) who said: ““Gedanken sind
zollfrei’ (Thougts are duty free).
Remember Act III of Schiller's “Don
Carlos,” “Sire, geben Sie Gedanken-
freiheit" (Sir, give me freedom), and
it was no less a person than Immanuel
Kant who said, “Also ist die Freiheit
der Feder das einzige Palladium der
Volksrechte" (Also the freedom of the
pen is the single safeguard of the
rights of the people).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Today, there is not a political patty

‘in Germany which is not demanding
“the right to publish a newspaper.

Church groups, communities, hundreds
and thousands of persons wish to
publish a newspaper, a magazine, a
book, or a pamphlet. Who shall decide
whether they have the right to
publish or not?

Only a year ago, it was difficult to
obtain a subscription to a newspaper.
Today, anyone who wishes to do so
can subscribe to any newspaper in
the three western zones.

And if it were not for the fact that
the creators of the directed press in
the eastern zone have prevented the
circulation of western zone publica-
tions, their publications; too, could
circulate here freely. That is to say,
there is already competition among
publications there is no monopoly.
Any newspaper, appearing under a
law guaranteeing and protecting the
tights of all, will have to convince
the public that it is more desirable
than another publication or that it is
worthy of being subscribed to in ad-
dition to another publication. And
there lies the great, democratic control
of publications. Under a system where
no one is suppressed by artificial
means, it is up to each individual to
support only those publications which,
in his estimation, support and con-
tribute to the public welfare, whether
it be by contributing wholesome
entertainment, by providing sound
information, or by taking a democratic
political stand.

HE German courts and the Ger-

man people have had the oppor-
tunity to exclude legally from further
professional activity those German
persons warranting such punishment.
To attempt in the name of democracy
to create new political differentiations
with respect to the right to voice or
publish an opinion would be contrary
to justice and contrary to democracy.
The already existing German laws on
libel provide adequate judicial pro-
cedures for anyone disseminating lib-
elous material, whether it be by
word of mouth or by the printed
word. There is no need, therefore, for
special laws in this respect regarding
the press.

It is for these reasons, therefore,
that Military Government tells those

28

groups or persons who desire to
publish, be it a leaflet, pamphlet,
book, or newspaper: see~to it that
your state legislature passes a law
guaranteeing and protecting press
freedom, in contrast, say, to the press
law of 1874 restricting press freedom
through arbitrary police action.
Military Government, for its part,
once the law has been approved, will
lift all licensing restrictions. From then
on, the public demand for a given
publication will determine its ne-
cessity, success, and popularity.

'T IS repeated, however, that what

is meant by a press law is not a
law restricting the press in the sense
of the press law of 1874 but rather
one guaranteeing the freedom of the
press—

A law which shall implement the
general guarantees of a free press as
expressed in the state constitution
and which shall exclude the institution
of any system of special licensing not
required of other business enterprises.

A law which shall protect the press
from governmental domination or dom-
ination by special interests.

A law which shall guarantee the
pterogatives of a free press in ob-
taining and publishing information of
public interest.

A law which shall guarantee that
there be no arbitrary interference by
the police or other administrative
bodies in the free flow and disseminat-
ion of news and printed matter.

A law which shall specifically ex-
clude the revival of honor courts,
press chambers, or other forms of
organized press control exercised by
the Nazi regime.

A law which shall: prohibit censor-
ship or control of the content of news
and published material except through
legal process in the event ofa vilation
of existing laws, for example those
regarding libel, defamation, fraud, in-
dencency or breach of peace.

When your representatives in the
legislature pass a law quaranteeing
and protecting press freedom, in
accordance with the guides imposed
by Military Government, all licensing
of the press will disappear. What was
it that Kant said: “Also ist die Frei-
heit der Feder das einzige Palladium
der Volksrechte.” -+END

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 32 ---
(Continued from page 18)
JEIA Plan

activities, are, of course illegal, and
offenders are liable to the penalties of
the law if they.are caught.

If practices of this kind develop on
a large scale, we shall be forced to
tighten up our procedure and to take
steps to prevent them.

Germany needs every cent which
her exporters can earn. We are at
present earning barely enough to pay
for one-third of Germany's imports.

In these circumstances, all exchange
earned must be shared between those
who. earn it directly and those who
help in an indirect manner, The bus
drivers, the telephone operators, the
farmers, even the journalists, contri-
bute to make exports possible and all
of them eat imported food and wear
clothes made from imported materials.
They must, therefore have their shares
of the foreign exchange which is
earned from exports....

F ANY large number of exporters

fail to surrender all the exchange
they earn, this scheme will fail, and it
will have to be replaced by other
arrangements, which, I can assure, will
involve much more stringent and un-
pleasant controls,

We must conserve all the foreign
exchange that we earn for the good of
everybody. But we must do much
more than this. We must earn far
more foreign exchange than we are
earning at present. Our present rate
of exports, DM 200,000,000 a month, is
not nearly good enough.

Germany must earn DM 600,000,000
a month from her exports before she
will be able to buy the imports
needed to maintain a very modest
Standard of living. Even that figure
is almost certainly not enough to
enable the German economy to be
self-supporting and to exist without
foreign financial aid.

Germany may not reach this figure
next year, or even in 1950, but it is
the target at which whe should aim.

N ORDER to reach such a target,

however, everybody concerning
must make a real effort. Every indi-
vidual exporter, every industry must
Set itself an export target. I hope that
the Verwaltung fuer Wirtschaft (Ger-
man Economics Department) will help
in this.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

Every concern connected with ex-
port must have a target—and the
higher the target the better....

The initial export target is
DM 600,000,000 a month. When it is
reached a good start will have been
made on the road towards establish-
ing in Germany an economy which can
be maintained without further finan-
cial assistance from outside govern-
ments and which will, at the same
time, contribute to the peaceful reha-
bilitation of Europe +END

(Continued on page 23)
Hotels

foreigner as well. But he may indulge
in a variety of luxury items which
are purchased by JEIA for dollars on
the world market.

Opening the hotels to foreigners
and Germans not only provides an
opportunity for them to meet and mix
on a friendly basis but also helps
restore the international social atmo-
sphere which is a normal hotel
characteristic.

Special efforts are made to maintain
the cuisine in the foreigners’ hotels
at a particularly high level. That these
efforts have been more than moder-
ately successful is proven by the large
numbers of occupation personnel who
visit the hotel dining rooms for special
occasions.

So far, JEIA’s hotel program has
been operating only in the US Zone.
Plans are now under consideration,
however, to open similar establish-
ments in the British and French Zones
in the near future. +END

Ex-PW’s Offer Reorientation Aid

In Bavaria an adult education publi-
cation Abendschule (Evening School)
has been licensed. The editors of
Abendschule are former prisoners of
war who went through the US Army
reorientation program in the United
States. By writing for this new adult
education journal, they feel that they
are making available to the German
public what they had learned of adult
education methods and courses used
in the United States,

29

73 American Books
Issued in German

EVENTY-THREE American books

have been translated and publish-

ed in Germany under a program spon-

sored by the Information Services
Division, OMGUS,

German book publishers are able
to acquire publishing rights at mini-
mum cost under a system of US
government-arranged contracts. The
government-negotiated agreements
call for only a five percent royalty
on German editions of 10,0000 or less.
The United States government pays
the copyright holder in the United
States up to $250 for the right’ to
publish in Germany. The Deutsche
mark receipts from sales in Germany
are placed in a blocked account pend-
ing later disposition, explained Miss
Dorothy Blake, MG publications of-
ficer,

The two largest editions published
under these postwar contracts have
been 100,0000 copies each of Jacqués
Barzun’s “Of Human _ Freedom,"
issued by a Munich publishing house,
and “Red Horse Hill," a children’s
book by Stephan Meader, published in
Wiesentheid, Bavaria. Arthur Koest-
ler’s “Darkness At Noon" will be
published within six months in an
edition of 100,0000 by a Stuttgart
publisher.

MAJORITY of the books pub-

lished have been in the fields of
history, biography, social sience and
fiction. Among the large editions
have been “This Is the World" by
Josephine Pease, ‘‘Mama‘s Bank Ac-
count” by Kathryn Forbes, Herbert
Agar’s “Time For Greatness,” “Amer-
ican Political Parties" by Wilfred
Binkley, “The American Character”

- by D. W. Brogan and Rachael Field's

“Time Out Of Mind.”

In addition to the books which
have already appeared in German
book stores, the rights to 253 more
have been sold, These books, which
include Ernest Hemingway's ‘For
Whom the Bell Tolls," “The House of
Seven Gables” by Nathaniel Haw-
thorne and Frances Perkins’ “The
Roosevelt I Knew" will appear in
German editions within the next
year.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Record of Proceedings of the Bizonal Eco-
nomic Council at the 22nd Plenary Meeting,
BICO/GL (48) 112, Bipartite Control Office,
1 Nov. 1948.

JEIA Press Digest, No. 23, JEIA, 5 Nev. 1948,

Intra-European Payments and Compensation
Agreement, BISEC/Memo (48) 62, Bipartite
Board, 8 Nov. 1948.

Record of Proceedings of the Bizonal Eco-
nomic Council at the 23rd Plenary Meeting,
BICO/GL (48) 148, Bipartite Control Office,
9 Nov. 1948.

Economic. Council Ordinance No. 66, “Ordi-
nance to Levy a Special Tax for the Berlin
Emergency Aid Program", BICO/Sec (48) 678,
Bipartite Control Office, 9 Nov. 1948.

Legal Gazette of the Combined Economic
Area, No. 14, Bipartite Control Office, 9 Nov.
1948.

Preparation, Publication and Distribution of
Telephone Directories, Signal Technical Cir-
cular No. 47, Signal Div., Hq EUCOM, 9 Nov.
1948

JEIA Press Digest, No. 24, JEIA, 12 Nov. 1948.

Report for the Month of September, JEIA,
November 1948.

Monthly OMG Report for October, OMG
Berlin Sector, November 1948.

Monthly OMG Report for October, OMG
Wuerttemberg-Baden, November 1948.

Monthly OMG Report for October, OMG
Hesse, November 1948.

Monthly OMG Report for October, OMG
Bremen, November 1948,

Monthly OMG Report for October, OMG

Bavaria, November 1948.

Statistical Annex to Monthly OMG Report
for September, No. 4, OMG Bavaria, Novem-
ber 1948.

Neue Auslese, Vol. 3, No. 11, ISD OMGB,
November 1948.

Heute, No. 72, ISD OMGB, 15 Nov. 1948.

Company Officers' Supply and Administra-
tion Course, 7871 T&E Group, Kitzingen, AG
352 GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 Nov. 1948.

Legal Gazette of the Combined Economic
Area, No. 15, Bipartite Control Office, 16 Nov.
1948.

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin No. 46,
EUCOM Publications Depot, 17 Nov. 1948.
Covers Nov. 8 to 12.

News of Germany,
OMGUS, 18 Nov. 1948.

Weekly Newspaper Analysis, No. 147, ISD
OMGUS, 18 Nov. 1948.

Semi-Monthly Military Government Report,
No. 102, PIO OMGUS, 19 Nov. 1948.

JEIA Press Digest, No, 25, JEIA, 19 Nov. 1948.

Military Government Law No. 75, ‘Reorga-
nization of German Coal and Iron and Steel
Industries,""| AG 010(EA), OMGUS, 20. Nov.
1948. See Information Bulletin, Issue No. 149,
Nov. 30, 1948, page 31.

News of Germany,
OMGUS, 20 Nov. 1948.

Vol. 4 No. 52, ISD

Vol. 4, No. 53, ISD

Copies of Instructions listed in

the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to
the originating headquarters.

British Zone Review, Vol. 2, No. 17, CCG
(BE), 20 Nov. 1948,

“Blank Forms, AG 315(CO), OMGUS, 22 Noy,
1948.

Legal Gazette of the Combined Economic
Area, No. 16, Bipartite Control Office, 22 Nov,
1948,

Delayed Payment for Mandatory Procure-
ments, AG 120(CO), OMGUS, 23 Nov. 1948,

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 54, ISD
OMGUS, 23 Nov. 1948.

Inventory and Projection of Army Command
Strength, Reports Control Symbol CSGPA-45,
AG 320.2 (PO), OMGUS, 23 Nov. 1948,

List of Units Showing Authorized Negro
Over-strength, AG 320.2 GOT-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 23 Nov. 1948.

General Procedures to be Foliowed to Con-
trol Riots or Disturbances Among the German
Population, AG 004,06 (AG), OMGUS, 24 Nov.
1948,

News of Germany,
OMGUS, 25 Nov. 1948,

Die Neue Zeitung,
OMGUS, 23 Nov. 1948.

Monthly Report of the Control Commission
for Germany (British Element) for October,
Vol. 3, No. 10, Hq CCG(BE), 26 Nov. 1948,

Die Neue Zeitung, Vol. 4, No. 94, ISD
OMGUS, 27 Nov. 1948.

News’ of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 56, ISD
OMGUS, 30 Nov. 1948.

Information Bulletin, No, 149, CO OMGUS,
39 Nov. 1948,

Die Neue Zeitung, Vol.
OMGUS, 30 Nov. 1948.

Monthly Report of the Military Governor,
No. 40, OMGUS, 2 Dec, 1948.

Vol. 4, No. 55, ISD

Vol. 4, No. 93, ISD

4, No. 95, ISD

Excerpts Taken from Official Instructions

Immunization Service

Alien dependents of personnel under the
control of the US Armed Forces are eligible
to receive at US medical installations all
immunizations offered other US dependents.
Immunizations required for travel to the
United States should be given alien dependents
at the earliest possible date. These should
be compieted at local military posts prior to
departure for the port of embarkation. From
EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 44.

German Employees of British

Indigenous personnel employed by the
British forces in the Frankfurt Military Post
on duties which require them to travel through-
out the US Zone of Germany are authorized
to receive meals when absent from their
home station in established US Army
indigenous messes, or other messes authorized
to ‘feed US direct indigenous employees,
under procedures provided herein.

Meals will be provided such transient
personnel only upon presentation of the
travel meal coupon referred to in par. 45,
EUCOM Cir 89, 1948 series, issued and
countersigned by the Commanding General,
Frankfurt Military Post, or his designated
representative.

Meals so furnished will be reimbursed by
the British forces by replacement in kind to
the Commanding General, Frankfurt Military
Post.

Mess officers furnishing meals as provided
herein will retain the travel meal coupon for
turn-in to the Class I Supply Point where
the equivalent amount of meals will be issued
for the number of travel coupons turned in.
— From EUCOM cable SC-20151.

Data on Graves for French

German authorities have compiled a census
of graves of United Nations nationals in the
US Zone. The information obtained thereby
was tumed over to the US Zone Tracing
Bureau (IRO, International Tracing Service),

INFORMATION ‘BULLETIN

who, in turn, distributed the information to
the various United Nations.

In compiling this census of graves, the
German authorities dealt only with records
of persons registered United Nations nationals,
omitting records of persons who, although
nationals of one of the United Nations, were
considered by the German law to be German

nationals and, consequently, recorded in
German administrative files. as Germans.
Thus, graves of persons from the French

territory of Alsace and Lorraine, which was
considered during the war to be part of Ger-
many, were not located by the census.

In order to complete the information
relative to the where-abouts of the graves of
French nationals, required in French graves
registration operations, it is requested that
the appropriate German authorities be in-
structed to submit to the US Zone Tracing
Bureau (US Zone Division, International
Tracing Service), 38 Fabrikstrasse, Ess-
lingen/Neckar, so much of the following in-
formation as is available to them with
respect to natives of Alsace and Lorraine.

Nominative lists of all persons who have
died since Sept. 2 1939, together with the
date and cause of death;

A list of all graves, such information to
include:

(1) The exact location with reference to
the—cadastral map together with cemetery
plot and grave numbers where appropriate:

(2) The name(s) of the occupant(s) of each
grave. Where the names are unknown, the
number of persons interred in each grave,
together with all available identifying in-
formation, will be stated. — From OMGUS
letter AG 293.9 (CA), Nov. 15.

Restrictions on DM Transfers

It is prohibited for personnel under the
jurisdiction of EUCOM Headquarters to
import into the US Area of Control, Ger-
many, from outside the Western Powers’
occupied area or to export from the Western

30

Powers’ occupied area Deutsche marks in
excess of 40 marks per person. Such import
and export of the Deutsche mark by persons
subject to German law and other persons
under the jurisdiction of US Military Govern-
ment is prohibited by MG law and ordinance.

MG authorities in the French Zone of
Occupation, Germany, have been requested
to post notification of this prohibition at
French controlled border points and to per-
form a customs check, when necessary, on
personnel entering the French Zone and whose
destination is the US Occupied Area of Ger-
many. — From EUCOM Weekly Directive
No. 45,

Hunting in French Zone

US military and civilian personnel may
hunt or fish in the French Zone of Germany
on written invitation from a member of the
French forces. The invitation must be
Presented for approval to the American-
French liaison officer in Baden-Baden, French
Zone of Occupation. Invitations received
from Germans residing in the French Zone

will not be honored. — From EUCOM Weekly
Directive No. 45,

Travel on Army Aircraft

Under the provisions of AR 95-90, the
Commander-in-Chief, EUCOM, may authorize
civilian personnel to ride as passengers in
US Army aircraft when travel is primarily of
official concern to the Army. Such personnel
are not required to sign a ‘Release of Claim
for Injury or Death.”

EUCOM Cir 124, 1948, provides that only
Personnel in military service and DA
civilians may be carried as passengers in
Amy aircraft and that written _ orders
authorizing travel by military aircraft must
be obtained for all passengers in compliance
with current directives governing individual
travel. — From EUCOM Weekly Directive
No. 45.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

--- Page 34 ---
MILITARY

STATION LIST

GOVERNMENT

ELEMENTS

‘Wuerttemberg-Baden
State Director: Mr. Charles M. LaFollette,
Stuttgart. :
7780th OMGUS Gp., WB Section
Commanding Officer: Lt. Col. Edward J.
Drinkert, Stuttgart.
Field Relations Division

OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, APO 154, Stuttgart.
Chief: Mr. Eugene P. Walters, Stuttgart.

Wuerttemberg Area
MGO, Aalen: Maj. Charles A, Pallette, Aalen.

MGO, Backnang: Capt. Henry W. Bynum,
Backnang.
MGO, Boeblingen: Mr, Loren L. Goldman,
Boeblingen,
MGO, Crailsheim: Capt. Robert C. Lawton,
Crailsheim.
MGO, Esslingen: Mr. Nich. Semaschko, Jr.,
Esslingen, -

MGO, Goeppingen: Mr. Nathan W. Barber,
Goeppingen. i

MGO, Heidenheim: Maj. Earle P. Schouton,
Heidenheim.

MGO, Heilbronn: Mr, James W. Butler, Heil-
bronn.

MGO, Kuenzelsau: Capt. E. L. Poland, Jr.,
Kuenzelsau.

MGO, Leonberg: ist Lt. Wm. B. Henry, Leon-
berg.

MGO, Ludwigsburg: Mr. Thomas E. Griswold,
Ludwigsburg.

MGO, Mergentheim: Mr. Boni V. Bloom, Bad
Mergentheint.

MGO, Nuertingen: Capt. Charles N. Mathews,
Nuertingen.

MGO, Oehringen: Mr, Pierre C, Nelson,
Oehringen.
MGO, Schwaebisch Gmuend: Capt. Philip K.

Felton, Schwaebisch Gmuend.

MGO, Schwaebisch Hall: Mr. Eugene P. Oja,
Schwaebisch Hall.

MGO, Stuttgart: Mr. Marcus L. Hoover, Stutt-
gart.

MGO, Ulm; Mr, John F. Capell, Ulm.

MGO, Vaihingen: Capt. Arthur J. Matheny,
Vaihingen/Enz.

MGO, Waiblingen:

Mr. Charles H. Wright,
Waiblingen.

Baden Area

MGO, Bruchsal: Capt. Fred J. Gerken, Bruchsal,

MGO, Buchen: Maj. Fred A. Hubbard, Buchen.

MGO, Heidelberg: Mr. William T. Neel,
Heidelberg.

MGO, Karlsruhe: Lt. Col, Allan G. Spitz, Karls-
tuhe.

MGO, Mannheim: Mr. Hugh Mair, Mannheim.

MGO, Mosbach: Mr. John Zecca, Mosbach.

MGO, Pforzheim: Mr. Raymond Lascoe, Pforz-
heim.

MGO, Sinsheim: Capt. John Welch, Sinsheim.

MGO, Tauberbischofsheim: Mr. Lewis A.
McCracken, Tauberbischofsheim.

Hesse

State Director: Dr. James R. Newman, Wies-
baden.

Liaison & Security Control Division

OMG Hesse, APO 633, Wiesbaden.

LSO, Office Bergstrasse: Mr. C, E. Blackman,
Heppenheim,

1SO, Office Darmstadt:
Darmstadt.

ISO, Suboffice Gross-Gerau: Mr. E. C. Breiten-
kamp, Gross-Gerau.

Os Office Dieburg: Mr. N.G. Turner, Die-

Mr. H. P. Radigan,

urg,
LSO, Suboffice Erbach: M, G. I. Laskowski,
Erbach,

SO, Office Eschwege: Maj. A. M. Tunstall,
Eschwege.

DECEMBER 14, 1948

LSO, Office Frankfurt: Mr. G. C. Sola, Frank-
furt.

LSO, Office Friedberg: Mr. J. W. Jergensen,
Fneaperg.

LSO, Suboffice Usingen: Mr. E. S, Wilkens,
Usingen,

LSO, Office Fritzlar-Homberg: Mr. P. E. Perry,
Fritzlar. _

LSO, Suboffice Melsungen: Mr. N. A. Hackney,
Melsungen.

LSO, Office Fulda: Mr. M, S. Clark, Fulda,

LSO, Suboffice Lauterbach: Mr. W. J. Hoffman,
Lauterbach,

LSO, Office Gelnhausen: Mr. J. A. Goodnight,
Gelnhausen.

LSO, Suboffice Schluechtern: Mr. F. J. Green,
Schluechtern.

LSO, Office Giessen: Mr. G. P. Moore, Giessen.

LSO, Suboffice Alsfeld: Mr. C. M. Henderson,
Alsfeld.

LSO, Office Hanau: Maj. W. P. David, Hanau.

LSO, Suboffice Buedingen: Capt. T. L. Vitullo,
Buedingen.

LSO, Office Hersfeld: Capt. R. W. Smith, Hers-

eld.

LSO, Suboffice Huenfeld: ist Lt. A, Abraham,
Huenfeld.

LSO, Office Kassel: M. R. A. Goetcheus,
Kassel.

LSO, Suboffice Hofgeismar:
wily, Hofgeismar.

LSO, Suboffice Wolfhagen:
‘Wolfhagen.

LSO, Office Marburg: Mr. S. R. Combs, Mar-

Mr. Z. S. Stang-
Mr. E. L, Kelly,

burg.

LSO, Suboffice Biedenkopf: Capt. J. C. Irwin,
Biedenkopf.

LSO, Office Obertaunus: Capt. R. W. Emerson,
Bad Homburg.

LSO, Office Offenbach, Mr. W. R. Sheehan,
Offenbach.

LSO, Office Rotenburg: Capt. H. H. Morrison,
Rotenburg.

LSO, Office Waldeck: Mr. C. Stanton, Korbach.

LSO, Suboffice Frankenberg: J. M. Lamb, Fran-
kenberg.

LSO, Office Wetzlar: Mr. J. R. Hyde, Wetziar.

LSO, Suboffice Dill: ist Lt. S. L. Maxwell,
Dillenburg.

LSO, Suboffice Oberlahn:
Weilburg,

LSO, Office Wiesbaden: Maj. C. A. Vollrath,
Wiesbaden.

LSO, Suboffice Limburg:

Limburg.

LSO, Suboffice Main/Taunus; Capt. J. W. De-
Loach, Hofheim.

LSO, Suboffice Rheingau: Mr. John D. McCabe,
Ruedesheim.

LSO, Suboffice Untertaunus: Mr. G. A. Vadney,
Bad Schwalbach. :

LSO, Office Witzenhausen: Capt. D. W. Ross,
Witzenhausen.

LSO, Office Ziegenhain:
Ziegenhain.

Mr. J. S. Burns,

Mr. J. S. Huffner,

Mr. R. F. Didlo,

Bavaria

State Director: Mr, Murray D. Van Wagoner,

Munich.

Field Operations Division

OMG Bavaria, APO 407, Munich.

Director: Mr. K. E. Van Buskirk, Munich,
Deputy Director: Mr. W. J. Moran, Munich.
Control Officer: Mr. P. W. Deibel, Munich.

Branch “A”—Lower Franconia
(APO 800)
Branch Chief: Mr. S. C. White, Wuerzburg.

Deputy Branch Chief: Mr. V. R. Hurst, Wuerz-
burg.

Area Bad Kissingen

Area Commander: Mr. A. Robb, Bad Kissingen.

MGO, Office Bad Kissingen: (vacancy). Bad
Kissingen, with suboffice for Neustadt.

1

MGO, Office Schweinfurt: Mr. R. L. Rigg,
Schweinfurt, with suboffices for Hofheim,
Hassfurt and Gerolzhofen.

MGO, Office Mellrichstadt:
Melbrichstadt.

MGO, Office Fogg,
Bruckenau,

MGO, Office Hammelburg: Lt. J. M. Kinsman,
Hammelburg. i

MGO, Office Koenigshofen: Lt. W. C. Clifton,
Koenigshofen.

Lt. C. M. Taylor,

Bruckenau: Mr. R.

Area Wuerzburg

bark Commander: Mr. E. C. Wimberly, Wuerz-

urg.

MGO, Office Wuerzburg: Mr. P, F, Bubser,
Wuerzburg, with suboffices for Ochsenfurt,
Marktheidenfeld, Karlstadt and Gmunden,

MGO, Office Aschaffenburg: Mr. F. D. Ross-
borough, Tschaffenburg, with suboffices for
Alzenau, Obernburg, Miltenberg and Lohr.

MGO, Office Kitzingen: Lt. M. O, Hamness,
Kitzingen.

Branch “B”’—Upper and Middle
Franconia (APO 696)

Branch Chief: Mr. R. M, MacWhorter, Nurem-

erg.

Deputy Branch Chief: Lt, Col. E, Purdy, Nurem-
erg.

Area Nuremberg

Area Commander: Mr. H. T. Lund, Nuremberg

MGO, Office Nuremberg: Mr. C. Enterick,
Nuremberg.

MGO, Office Fuerth: Mr. J. S. Hilliard, Fuerth,

MGO, Office Schwabach: Capt, S. G. Real,
Schwabach.

Area Coburg

Area Commander: Mr. S. P. Sussell, Coburg.

MGO, Office Coburg: Mr. R. D, Walston, Co-
burg, with suboffices for Ebern, Lichtenfels,
and Staffelstein.

MGO, Office Kronach: Lt. S. S. Smith, Kronach,

MGO, Office Kulmbach: Capt. W. F. McCarthy,
Kulmbach,

Area Hof

Area Commander: Mr. J, D. Brooks, Hof.

MGO, Office Hof; (vacancy), Hof, with sub-
office for Munchberg.

MGO, Office Rehau: Capt. J. M. James, Rehau,

MGO, Office Wunsiedel: Mr. J. W. Vonier,
Wunsiedel,

MGO, Office Naila: Capt. A. A. Stanchos,
Naila, with suboffice for Stadtsteinach,

Area Bayreuth

Area Commander: Mr. C. L. Leven, Bayreuth,

MGO, Office Bayreuth: Mr. C. M. Pace, Bay-
reuth, with suboffice for Ebermannstadt.

MGO, Office Pegnitz: Capt. L. Griffin, Pegnitz.

MGO, Office Lauf: Maj.W. A. Kelly, Lauf.

MGO, Office Hersbruck; Capt. E. T. Mattox,
Hersbruck.

Area Bamberg

Area Comtmander: Mr. N. R. Preston, Bamberg.
MGO, Office Bamberg: Mr. J. F. Hackett, Bam.

berg.

MGO, Office Erlangen: Lt. Col. M. K. Barrett,
Erlangen, with suboffice for Forchheim.

MGO, Office Hochstadt: Capt. S. E. Witty,
Hochstadt.

MGO, Office Scheinfeld: Lt. W. J. Hennessy,
Scheinfeld, with suboffice for Neustadt.

MGO, Office Uffenheim: Capt. Q. A. Mitchel,
Uffenheim.

Area Ansbach

Area Commander: Mr. J. C. Joublanc, Ansbach.

MGO, Office Ansbach: Mr. F. Roessler, Ans-
bach, with suboffices for Feuchtwangen and
Gunzenhausen.

MGO, Office Weissenburg: Mr. J. Marcu, Jr.,
Weissenburg, with suboffice for Hilpoltstein.

MGO, Office Eichstadt: Lt. W. McGee, Eich-
stadt.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
MGO, Office Rothenburg: (vacancy), Rothen-

burg.
MAO, Office Dinkelsbuehl: (vacancy), Dinkels-
buebl.

Branch “D” — Lower Bavaria and
Upper Palatinate (APO 225)

Branch Chief: Mr. E. F. Warnke, Regensburg.
Deputy Branch Chief; Mr. J.J. May, Regens-
burg.

Area Regensburg
Area Commander: Mr. L, F. Kealy, Regens-

burg.

Mco!, Office Regensburg: Mr. W. S$. Neil,
Regensburg, with suboffices for Mallers-
dorf, Riedenburg and Kelheim. (Acting
MGO; Capt. W. R. Smallwood).

MGO, Office Cham: Capt. G. J. La Fountain,
Cham, with suboffices for Neuburg v/W,
Roding, Waldmuenchen and Koetzting.

MGO, Office Parsberg: Mr, J. O. Lipman,
Parsberg, with suboffice for Beilngries,

MGO, Office Burglengenfeld: Capt, A. F.
Rutledge, Burglengenfeld.

MGO, Office Neumarkt: Capt. J. B. Spencer,
Neumarkt.

Area Amberg

Area Commander: Mr, A, J. Dann, Amberg.

MGO, Office Amberg: Capt. R. J. Van Cam-
pen, Amberg, with suboffice for Sulzbach.

MGO, Office Weiden: Maj. G. H, Swick,
Weiden, with suboffices for Oberviechtach
and Nabburg.

MGO, Office Eschenbach: Capt. E. S, Parr,
Eschenbach, with suboffice for Kennath,
MGO, Office Tirschenreuth: Capt. I, O. Thi-

bodeau, Tirschenreuth,
MGO, Office Vohenstrauss: Capt. M. C. Gib-
bons, Vohenstrauss.

Area Straubing
Area Commander; Mr. J. T. Lawrence, Strau-

bing.
Maj. C. P, Kro-
ponski, Straubing, with suboffice for Bogen,
MGO, Gifice Landshut: Maj. T. G, Shackel-
ford, Landshut, with suboffices for Main-
burg, Dingolfing, Vilsbiburg and Rottenburg.
MGO, Office Regen: Lt. W. M. Gardner.
Pegen.
MGO, Office Deggendorf: Maj. R, E. Timber-
lake, Degyendor!, with subotfice for Viecht-

ach.
MGO, Office Landau: Capt, F. W. Adams,
Landau.

Area Passau

Area Commander: Mr. A. V. Diguini, Passau.

MGO, Office Passau: Mr. M. Glossop, Passau,
with suboffice for Grafenau,

MGO, Offrce Wegscheid: Lt. W. R. O’Con-
nor, Obernzell.

MGO, Office Vilshofen: Capt. R. W. Buffing-
ton, Vilshofen.

MGO, Office Griesbach: Capt. J. H, Honour,
Griesbach.

MGO, Office Pfarrkirchen: Mr, C, R. Hansen,
Pfarrkirchen.

MGO, Office Eggenfelden: Lt. I, J. Cooper,
Eggenfelden.

MGO, Office Wolfstein; Lt. R, H.
Freyung.

Branch “E” — Upper Bavaria
(APO 407)

Branch Chief: Mr. R. F, Wagner, Munich.
Deputy Branch Chief: Mr. J. A. Walker Jr.,
Munich.

Area Freising

Area Commander: Mr, F, K. Wiest, Freising.

MGO, Office ‘Freising; Mr. L, W. McAnnally,
Freising.

MGO, Office Pfaffenhofen: Mr, W, Rubin,
Pfaffenhofen, with suboffice for Schroben-
hausen.

MGO, Office Dachau: Capt. G. Jacobson,
Dachau, with suboffice for Aichach.

MGO, Office Erding; Capt. J, F. Nordgren,
Erding.

MGO, Office Ingolstadt:
Ingolstadt.

Area Garmisch
Area Commander: Mr, William J. Garlock,
Garmisch.

MGO, Office Garmisch: Capt. R. L. Roye,
Garmisch,

MGO, Office Weilheim: Mr. E, W. Schoening,
Weilheim,

Maj. H, E, Reed,

Rivet, |

_ MGO; Office Schongau: Lt, R, J. Schermer,

Schongau. «

MGO, | Office Stamberg: Mr, J. C, Midzor,
Statnberg. :
MGO, Office Furstenfeldbruck: Lt, T. C.
Wickman, Furstenfeldbruck,

Area Munich

Area Commander: Mr. J. H, Kelly, Munich.
Debuty Commander: Mr. Le Van’ Roberts,
Munich,

Area Toelz

Area Commander; Mr, G. H. Godfrey, Bad
Toelz.

MGO, Office Toelz:
Toelz,

MGO, Office Aibling: Mr. F. W, Scbillig,
Aibling, with suboffice for Ebersberg.

MGO, Office Wolfratshausen: Mr. M
Weightman, Wolfratshausen.

MGO, Office Miesbach: Mr. W. R. Corbett,
Miesbach.

Area Rosenheim

Area Commander: Mr. L. G. Emerick, Rosen-
heim.

MGO, Office Rosenheim: Lt,
Rosenheim.

MGO, Office Traunstein: Mr, R. A. Wickman,
-Traunstein, with suboffice for Laufen.

MGO, Office Wasserburg: Capt. L. Jones,
Wasserburg.

MGO, Office Muehldorf; Capt. Seth Palagi,
Muehldorf.

MGO, Office Altoetting: Mr. W. G. Keenl,
Altoetting.

MGO, Office Berchtesgaden: Mr,
Mahon, Berchtesgaden.

Branch “G” — Swabia (APO 178)

Branch Chief; Mr, W. C. Rhyne, Augsburg.

Deputy Branch Chief; Mr. H. D, Hart, Augs-
burg.

Area Augsburg

Area Commander: Mr. D. S. Root, Augsburg.

MGO, Office Augsburg, Mr. R. Q, Petitfils,
Augsburg, with suboffice for Friedberg.

MGO, Office Schwabmueachen: Lt. M. E. Hecht,
Schwabmuenchen.

MGO, Office Gunzburg: Mr. F. C. Lindaman,
Gunzburg, with suboffice for Krumbach.
MGO, Office Neu-Uim: Capt, R. S. Hardison,
Neu-Ulm, with suboffice for Ilertissen,
MGO, Office Dillingen: Capt. J, T. Mulcahey,
Jr., Dillingen, with suboffice for Wertingen.
MGO, Office Neuburg a/D: Mr. T. E. Eshel-

man, Neuburg a/D.

MGO,’ Office Donauwoerth: Mr. J, R. Bar-
ker, Donauwoerth (Acting MGO: Mr, D.
G. 'Reck).

MGO, Office Landsberg: Mr. A. J. Sikora,
Landsberg.

Area Kaufbeuren

Area Commander: Mr. S, Siskind, Kaufbeuren,

MGO, Office Kaufbeuren: Maj. M. G. Norum,
Kaufbeuren.

MGO, Office Sonthofen: Mr. J, K, Huston,
Sonthofen.

MGO, Office Fuessen: Capt. R. W. Anderson,
Fuessen.

MGO, Office Markt Oberdorf:
Markt_ Oberdorf.

MGO, Office Memmingen: Mr. D. J. Angers,
Memmingen.

MGO, Office Mindelheim: Mr.
Mindelheim.

MGO, Office Kempten: Mr. J. P. Montgomery,
Kempten.

Mr, F. F. Egger, Bad

J. L. Allison,

G, F, Mc

(Vacancy),

J, L. Ott,

Bremen

State Director: Capt, Charles R. Jeffs (USN),
Bremen.

OMG Bremen, APO 751, Bremen,

MGO, Bremerhaven Det.: Mr. Edward E. Me-
rone, Bremerhaven,

Berlin Sector

Director: Col. Frank L, Howley, Berlin.
OMG Berlin Sector, APO 742-A, Berlin,
Liaison Officers (with mayor and borough
presidents):
Berlin City: Mr. K. F. Mautner.
Neukoelln: Mr. Daniel J. Harkins.
Kreuzberg: Mr, C, J. Melchers.
Schoeneberg: Mr. C, J. Melchers.
Steglit: Mr. Walter J, Pugh.
Tempelhof: Mr. Daniel J. Harkins.
Zehlendorf; Mr, Walter J, Pugh.

(Continued from page 26)
MGO’s Daily Work

swering questions on almost any con-
ceivable subject?

Walters: In order to reorient the Ger-
mans we have to keep our MGO’'s
oriented. We hold a large MGO
meeting in Stuttgart once a month
where various section and branch
chiefs of OMG headquarters discuss
the most important issues of the day.
Practice helps tremendously. After the
first three or four forums, the MGO
will be asked the same questions
again and again. Then we have made
a compilation of the questions asked
most in the various fields and along
with material supplied by OMGWB
sections and branches we had put
together a handbook for field MGO's,*
Mr. Malchman: Your program certain-
ly is thorough!

Mr, LaFollette: It's got to be. We are
faced with two basic problems. First
“the planting of the seeds of demo-
cracy.”” This is most important with
the young and those who had not
time to form their concepts under the
Nazi terror. Second “reviving, fer-
tilizing and in every way possible
assisting those democratic plants
which have tried to sprout out through
the centuries but in Germany have
always been crushed under an iron
heel.

These democratic sprouts are now
flourishing in the trade unions; the
traditionally independent ‘Wuerttem-
berg-Badenese farmer” is independent
again; there is a growing feeling of
civic responsibility. As I see it, our
task here is to see that these new
bright green sprouts of democratic
thought may multiply and grow strong
and robust so that they may stand
firm against any blight of nationalism
or totalitarianism. + END

* See “Questions and Answers" section on
page 24 and accompaning note in Issue No. 147,
Nov. 2, 1948,

Transfer of Nazi Property

Wuerttemberg-Baden was the first
state to have completed, under MG
supervision, the transfer of all prop-
erties coming under the provisions
of ACA Directive No. 50 (Disposition
of Property Having Belonged to Nazi
Organizations).

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF