--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE OF US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

GI TOY MAKERS

NO. 152 JANUARY 11, 1949

THIS S Outlook Is Bright for 1949

«(

--- Page 3 ---
US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

OF F iC ES ADVIESERS
ay | i —
ELEN

— P= hf =t—F - 1

He 8a

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

GI TOY MAKERS—Two enlisted men
from the 759th MP Battalion in Berlin
devote their off-duty hours to cutting
out Christmas toys on electric jig
saws. Members of the battalion made
or collected thousands of toys for
Berlin children. A story on Christmas
parties may be found on pages 16
and 17. (US Army photo)

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of Military Government
and affiliated organizations,

Editional Offices
Directors Building, Room 1050
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin

Tel: 42227, 42252, 42923

Editor H, Warner Waid
Assistant Editor Henry S. Matteo
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes
Mailing address:
Information Bulletin
Control Office, OMGUS

Berlin, Germany
APO 742, US Army

Correspondence in the United States
concerning articles and distribution
should be made to:

Reports & Analysis Branch
Civil Affairs Division
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D.C.

Printing and distribution of the
magazine is handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article,

wVwevreeuvvuvi kf

MAR 2 + 1950

- 46S:
1444

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION
BULLETIN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 152

Outlook Is Bright for 1949

Broadcast by Gen. Lucius D. Clay

January 11, 1949

Operation Better Kids mere Nrmnbirita, $ 3
Article by Lawrence G. Derthick

Bank Deutscher Laender—Bank of the German States . . 5

From the EC to Washington via Telephoto (Pictorial) 8

Bizonal Communications—A Year of Progress . . . . . 9
Article by Elise F. Hawlin

German Politicians Observe US Elections . . . . . . 13
Arlicle by Louis Kelly

Property Restitution ZU BOW Oe Mra Silt 15
Article by Edmund H. Schwenk

Christmas Parties Sie a aries Reeumenet la 2 ec Miura at awaT: U:)
Americans entertain thousands of Germans

Golden Gloves—German Youths Learn Sportsmanship . . 20

Article on GYA activities

Basis for Press Laws—Conditions for End oi Licensing . . 22

Editorial Opinion in German Press... ..... . 23

Press and Radio Comment. . . fae ae sae

Questions and Answers 30

Excerpts from Official Instructions . . . ..... . 31

Regulations, Publications, Directives, Documents . . . . 32

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

CONTROL OFFICE
BERLIN, GERMANY

REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH

APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
ee OCCU UU

Outlook Is Bright for 1949

General Lucius D. Clay, US Military Governor, said in a radio interview
broadcast late last month that the outlook was bright for western Germany in
1949. The interview, recorded in Berlin, was broadcast from New York,

The General also said substantial progress had been made in western Germany
during 1948. He discussed the international] situation, the airlift, the morale of
the US Army in Germany, democratization, and other subjects.

The interview follows:

Do you look forward to a general peace settlement in the forseeable future?

General Clay: I think that any expectation that a stable, peaceful world can
result from a general peace settlement is oversimplification of the problem While
a general peace settlement has not been agreed in the broad sense of the word,
we are at peace now or, at least, we are not engaged in war. We do not need
to be plunged into war. The conditions of stability, both economic and political,
which make for a long peace are returning to Europe. When the freedom-loving,
democratic countries of western Europe are on their feet economically and able
to protect their freedom, then we may expect a long peace.

How will winter affect the airlift? Is there any possibility of a crisis arising
among the German population for want of food and heat?

General Clay: Of course, winter weather decreases the tonnage we can move
by air, Nevertheless our worst air weather based on the record comes in No-
vember and December. We have met this challenge by carrying our minimum
essential tonnage in both months. We now have 40 more C-54's available with
better weather prospects and we should, henceforth, exceed the minimum, which
means some coal for domestic heating and for industrial use. Our record during
the very bad weather in November and December was due to an efficiently-run
operation which permitted transfer of airplanes from airports in a bad weather
area to airports in a better-weather area.

Since we will meet minimum tonnages, we can have no food crisis in Berlin.
If the winter is unduly severe, there will be suffering from extreme cold.
However, I am convinced that the people of Berlin have learned from their
experience under one totalitarian government to withstand almost any hardship
rather than to accept another totalitarian regime,

What are the prospects of allied cooperation on western Germany, i.e., the
Ruhr, Trizonia, and western German government?

General Clay: The representatives of France, the United Kingdom, and the
United States met in London last spring and there reached agreement in prin-
ciple on Ruhr control, the setting up of western German government and the
establishment of tri-partite supervision of their three zones of occupation
through the western German government. We are now working out the details.

(Continued on page 25)

eee eee ee eee eC ce

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 6 ---
Since the beginning of the occupation, US Military Government has
advocated a three-fold program for reform of the German public. school
system: free tuition, school books and teaching materials; six years of
elementary school for all students, and abolition of the “two-track" sysiem.

Some progress has been made. Bavaria has passed a law granting free
text books and tuition, while Bremen has incorporated certain reforms in
its state constitution. But no reforms have been effected in the remaining
two states of the US Zone—Hesse and Wuertiemberg-Baden,

Elimination of the “two-track” system is the crux of the reform favored
by Military Government. Under the pre-occupation system, all children
went to free public schools for four years, then by paying tuition a
relatively small group changed over to secondary schools for a 10th grade
diploma or to prepare for university.

The non-paying students continued four more years in elementary schools
for a total of eight years, Then generally their school days were over,
because it was almost impossible to qualify for entrance into universities.

Under the proposed reform—advocated the past 100 years by many
German educators themselves—the public schools would consist of six
years of compulsory elementary education followed by six years of voluntary
secondary education. All 12 years would be free to all students.

In the following article, Mr. Derthick cites the most common German
objections to reform, and answers each.

ANY QUESTIONS, raised at
public forums in Bavaria con-
cerning school reform, follow a com-
mon pattern and seem to center
around three main issues, namely:
Involving financial questions, the ex-
tension of the’ elementary school to
six years, and the extension of full-
time compulsory education from eight
to nine years,
In every forum some German is sure
to say something like this: “In Ger-

German school children, like the group shown below,

many today we are a poor and
bombed-out country. We would like
to have all of these fine things for
our children, but we simply cannot
afford them; we are not rich like
America.”

The answers to this objection are
numerous, sound and _ convincing.
First, let us consider the financial
issues:

1, People constitute the most pre-
cious resource of a nation. Existing

a three-fold program advocated in the US Zone by Military Government.

by Lawrence G. Derthick

Chief, Education Branch
E&CR Division, OMG Bavaria

conditions in Germany make it more
urgent, not less urgent, to invest in
people through education. To the
degree that the people can be made
more skilled, more creative, and
better citizens through education, to
that degree will Germany correct ad-
verse economic and social ills.

This truth is not based upon per-
sonal opinion or judgment, but upon a
scientific research throughout the
world which has demonstrated that
the education of people is the most
important factor in determining their
economic and social welfare,

Money spent for education is an
investment in people which yields a
return of many fold, and it cannot be
viewed in the light of many other
governmental expenditures which
permit restrictions and curtailments
during hard times, Germany can
afford the cost of school reform and
she cannot afford to miss making this
investment,

2. School reform involves a Jong-
time program and the increasing ex-
penses will be gradual. One cannot
view the cost of school reform alone
on the basis of existing economic
conditions, but should look into the
future when the present evidences of
economic - conditions in general will
have matured, thus making less

(Continued on next page)

would be entitled to 12 years of free schooling under

(US Army photograph)

--- Page 7 ---
burdensome the task of supporting
public education.

3. Bavaria is not even giving her
children their proper share of the
money now available. Little more than
five percent of the state's income is
spent for education. In many Ameri-
can communities as much as 63 per-
cent or more is invested in education.
Thus, the excuse that America is rich
and can do these things for her
children is not sound in the sense that
these American communities simply
give more of what they have for their
children’s sake.

One way to begin the cost of school
reform might be to give Bavarian
children their fair share of the money
already available and certainly, as
state income increases, the children
should have a greater share.

4, Research on problems of public
finance will reveal more adequate
methods for supporting public edu-
cation. We have not had the resources
to do more than scratch the surface
on this problem, but we have found
out enough to know that new methods
‘of taxation, collection, and distribu-
tion of funds as between state and
local communities will make the edu-
cational load easier to carry.

5. In every audience there will be
substantial German citizens who will
most heartily agree that in the past
Germany has been able to develop
resources for building one of the
greatest military machines the world
has ever seen and that a people
sufficiently productive to come back
and do this a second time are suffi-
ciently productive to finance an ade-
quate educational program and to
build school buildings in the place of
magnificent barracks.

6. After all, to have an adequate
improved production and improved
school system only requires children,
materials, adults and an organization
to use these resources as effectively
as they were used to build a great war
machine. Children, materials and
adults are available in Bavaria in
great abundance. The effective organi-
zation for utilizing these resources can
be achieved once again and for a
vastly better purpose.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE SECOND of the three major

issues relates to secondary edu-
cation, specifically to the restriction of
the time allowance for the Gymnasium
from nine to seven years resulting
from the extension of common edt-
cation in the elementary school for all
children from 4 to 6 years.

Critics of this program contend that
this will lower the proud standards
of the Gymnasium because the so-
called gifted pupils, having entered
these schools two years later, will
have insufficient time in which to
achieve the established standards. For
example, because training in Latin
for nine years is considered essential
to success in the university and in life,
it is contended by conservative ele-
ments that seven years is too short a
time allowance for the proper teaching
of this subject.

Most likely it will not be able to
convince the most conservative of the
people that they are mistaken, but it
will be found that the majority will
react very thoughtfully to positive
answers; some will agree heartily and
some will be converted.

Actually, school reform is designed
to raise the level of secondary e‘u-
cation, not to lower it. There are
several good arguments to support
this answer. The Nazis eliminated the
last year of the high school back in
1938. German committees, working
with Military Government, have
recommended that this 13th school year
be reintroduced as soon as possible.

Therefore, to extend common ele-
mentary education two years would
reduce the Gymnasium program by
only one year and not by two years
and would give the children to the
Gymnasium at a more mature age
when their achievements could be
greater. Furthermore, it can be
emphasized that the two years during
which the children would be retained
in elementary school would in them-
selves be fruitful years and cannot be
viewed as lost years.

Another answer for this same
issue grows out of the feeling by
secondary teachers that they have
too many students in their schools
who are not really suited for academic
studies of the college preparatory
type. This is true because of the
following conditions: (1) The process

4

of selection is really not very
thorough because of the absence of
modern guidance and testing tech-
niques; (2) the selection is made too
early, at the end of the fourth school
year; (3) thousands of students who
enter secondary schools are not pre-
paring for the university at all, but
for a special diploma which is given
at the end of the 10th year.

‘We want to better this situation (1)
through improvement of the proce-
dures of selection for this type of
school, (2) through postponement of
the selection to the end of the sixth
school year, and (3) by the creation of
a new type of secondary schoo] for
the great masses of the people.

This is an especially popular feature
because this proposed new type of
secondary school will open up high
school opportunities of the kind
suited to the needs of those who have
been misfits in the old type schools.
It will also open the doors to many
thousands of boys and girls who have
never had the chance of a high school
education.

NCIDENTALLY, this proposed new

school will most nearly resemble
the American high school, and German
educators with much enthusiasm have
themselves set the pattern for this
school and are rapidly completing
plans for its organization.

Thus, this plan will.certainly raise
standards and not lower them; first
because a practical secondary edu-
cation will gradually be made avail-
able to all children; and second,
because the Gymnasium will be freed
to do the job for which it is intended.

Many Germans in considering this
issue are likewise impressed by the
following views: that it is undemo-
cratic to separate the small group of
so-called gifted pupils at such an
early age and that it tends to accen-
tuate the problem of class distinction;
that at the tender age of 10 or the end
of the fourth grade it is too early to
compel many children to make un-
alterable vocational choices; that the
trends toward a longer period of
common elementary education are
world-wide.

It is often advantageous to explain
that a scientific research project has
been suggested which would be

(Continued on page 29)

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 8 ---
Bank Deutscher Laender

— Bank of the German States

HE REORGANIZATION of the

banking system in the US Zone
reached its climax in March 1948 with
the establishment of the Bank Deut-
scher Laender (Bank of the German
States).

The keynote in the postwar bank
reorganization in the US Zone has
been decentralization, which has in-
cluded steps for the liquidation of
the Reichsbank and the decentrali-
zation of the big banks. The establish-
ment of the Bank Deutscher Laender
now provides a new central banking
organization for the Zone.

Before May 8, 1945, the German
banking system was highly centralized
and under the control of the Nazi
government. This condition developed
through the existence of powerful
associations of credit institutions,
which in the case of savings banks
and credit cooperatives took the form
of regional associations under central
associations in Berlin, formed with the
purpose of collecting and investing
the surplus deposits of the member
institutions,

Moreover, the banking supervision
exercised by the Nazi government
was extensive. The Nazi government
had wide powers, especially concern-
ing the dismissal and appointment of
high bank officials.

The German banks engaged both in
commercial banking by granting short
term credits and in investment bank-
ing by assisting industry and trade to
meet their long-term capital needs.

Through investment banking the
German banks acquired considerable
economic influence by participating
directly in industry, promoting new
enterprises, initiating mergers and ca-
pital reconstruction, gaining repre-
sentation on supervisory boards, dom-
inating the stock exchanges, and
voting their customers’ stock. This
latter practice permitted, in many in-
Stances, the large banks actually to
hold Proxies for the majority of stock
in business enterprises.

JANUARY 11, 1949

The huge expenditures for the pros-
ecution of the war completely dom-
inated the credit system. The fin-
ancial resources of the banks were
used almost exclusively by the state
for financing the war.

IHE EXPENDITURES were met not

by the direct floating of loans to
the public as in the United States,
but by the banks’ subscription to
government securities out of the ac-
cumulated deposits of their customers.
The result was that, on May 8, 1945,
approximately 80 percent of the banks’
assets were invested in state se-
curities.

In the Potsdam Declaration of
Aug. 2, 1945, the Allies established
the principle of economic decentrali-
zation of Germany. The policy for the
decentralization of banking in the US
Zone was based on the following pro-
visions:

1, Decentralization of the Reichs-
bank by establishing state central
banks.

2. Decentralization to the state level
of all classes of banking and credit
institutions in the same manner as
for the Reichsbank.

Initial proposals concerning central
bank reorganization were addressed
to the ministers president of the three
principal states in the US Zone by
Military Government on Nov. 1, 1945.

Included in this letter was the fol-
lowing statement of one of the
problems to be solved in carrying
out the economic objective of the
Potsdam Declaration: “... to establish
a basic state central banking or-
ganization which can be coordinated
on a zonal basis and later integrated
with any subsequent banking plan for
Germany as a whole.”

Material for the article on Bank
Deutscher Laender was obtained
from the Military Governor's
monthly report No. 32 and from
MG Law No. 60 under which the
Bank was established.

In a meeting held on March 4—5,
1946, the finance ministers of the
three states formulated a law estab-
lishing state central banks which
closely followed the original MG re-
commendations, The Finance Com-
mittee of the US Zone’s Council of
States accepted a revised version of
the draft law on July 1, 1946.

OWEVER, when the law was sub-
mitted to Military Government,
it was found to be unsatisfactory from
several points of view, particularly
since the draft envisioned too much
political control over the central banks,
Finally, at an extraordinary session
of the council's Finance and Banking
Committee, held on Nov. 26, 1946, in
Stuttgart, the final draft of the state
Central Bank Law was approved. It
was enacted in Bavaria on Dec. 6 and
in Wuerttemberg-Baden on Dec. 7,
1946, with the approval of the cab-
inets.

Because of the political conditions
in Hesse which would have delayed
the passage of the bill, it was pro-
mulgated by order of Military Gov-
ernment on Dec. 7, 1946, in that state.
The law became effective in all three
states on Jan. 1, 1947,

The law created a state central bank
in each of the principal states of the
US Zone, established along the lines
of the US Federal Reserve Banks, to
act as a bankers’ bank, taking over
this function from the former Reichs-
bank branches.

As no complete liquidation of the
Reichsbank is possible before such
action is undertaken for all of Ger-
many, a trustee was appointed in each
state to administer the remaining
assets of the Reichsbank in that state
until final liquidation.

The greater part of the deposit
liabilities of the Reichsbank were
taken over by the new state central
banks, leaving mainly the totally-
blocked accounts with the trustees.

On the asset side, claims on Berlin
originating out of preoccuption bus-
iness, constituting a large asset item,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
were not transferred to the state
central banks. The consequent excess
of liabilities over assets was balanced
in the case of each of the banks by
a claim on the trustee of the Reichs-
bank for the state. In order to fa-
cilitate an eventual liquidation of the
Reichsbank on a zonal basis, a general
trustee for the Reichsbank was also
appointed for the entire US Zone.

HEN Bremen was established as

the fourth state in the US Zone
on Jan. 2, 1947, a reorientation of its
financial structure toward the US
Zone was necessary.

Heretofore, banking in Bremen had
been an integral part of the central
banking system of the British Zone.
Thus the Bremen Reichsbank, which had
been instrumental in the financing of
imports to the US Zone, had been
dependent upon the Hamburg Reichs-
bank central office for the British
Zone.

Military Government endeavored to
limit the excessive concentration of
economic power in German private
banking in the US Zone by decen-
tralizing the three largest branch
banking houses: the Deutsche Bank,
Dresdner Bank and Commerz-Bank.

Before and during the war these
banks constituted the financial back-
ing of German cartels, syndicates and
trusts, and they exercised consider-
able influence over the greater part
of the German monopolistic groupings.

Military Government Law No. 57,
promulgated on May 6, 1947, was de-
signed to rectify this situation in ac-
cordance with the principles establish-
ed in the Potsdam Declaration.

The law provided that an in-
dependent and disinterested cus-
todian should be appointed by each
state government for the three banks.
These custodians, responsible to the
state governments would manage and
administer the property of these banks
within the respective states. They
would preserve, maintain and safe-
guard the banks’ assets. Moreover,
they would in no way be influenced
by or take instruction from the pre-
sent officials or shareholders of these
banks. By a specific provision of the
law the independent custodians would
change the names of these banks in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

such a manner that the new names
would be different in each state.

To make the law effective, the
ministers president of the state gov-
ernments issued administrative reg-
ulations cutting off the giro systems
of these banks beyond state bound-
aries and forcing all clearings of more
than RM 100,000 to be carried out
through the state central bank system.
In addition, weekly statistical reports
were required in order to assure that
the banks would not try to weaken
their structure by sending money
outside the Zone. All transfers for
legitimate business were permitted.

Contrary to fears of German officials
that the decentralization policy might
adversely affect public confidence in
the banking system of the US Zone,
Law No. 57 had in no way weakened
public confidence. There was no run
on the banks, there was no increase
in withdrawals, there was no attempt
to transfer funds into other zones, and
stock quotations, which had declined
for a few days, recovered their pre-
vious position shortly after passage
of the law.

Joint US and British conferences in
the fall of 1947 resulted in the form-
ulation of general principles re-
garding the establishment of a new
central bank and of the implementa-
tion of bank decentralization in the
British Zone.

As a result of and in line with
these decisions, various proposals for
this new central bank were submitted
by German authorities in the US and
British Zones.

Examination of these proposals
revealed, as a common characteristic,
the difficulties encountered by their
German originators who envisaged
a central banking system which
was not dominated by political
bodies, which would not control
the banking system operating under
it through more than purely financial
measures, and which would con-
sciously refrain from engaging in any
kind of commercial banking business.

In order to come closer to the
realization of these principles as well
as others established by the US and
British Military Governments, a meet-
ing of German experts of the various

6

state central banks was convened to
develop a draft law establishing the
Bank of the German States.

After long and detailed discussions,
the law was finally signed and pro-
mulgated in the US Zone as MG Law
No. 60 and as Ordinance No. 129 in
the British Zone, and was made
effective in March 1948, A revision of
the law went into effect Nov. 1, 1948.

Under this law the bank, set up
in Frankfurt, had a _ capital of
RM 100,000,000 and all member banks
subscribe to it in proportion to the
amounts of their deposits. The bank is
limited to transactions with member
state central banks, central banks of
other German states and of foreign
countries or their equivalent, and the
Bizonal Economic Administration. It
has no branches or subsidiaries or
affiliates and is not subject to the
German Banking Act or to the in-
structions of any political body or
public non-judicial agency. In de-
ciding upon the policies of the bank,
however, the board of directors is
subject to such directions as may be
issued by the Allied Bank Com-
mission.

The policies of the bank are de-
termined by a board of directors and
executed by a board of managers. The
board of directors consists of a pre-
sident, a president of the board of
managers and presidents of each of
the member state central banks. The
board of directors arrives at its de-
cisions by a simple majority of the
votes cast, each member having a
single vote. The vote of the president
is decisive in a tie. This chairman is
elected by a simple majority of the
members of the board. During his
term, however, he cannot be a member
of the board of directors or board of
managers of any member bank.

The board of managers of the bank
has a president, a deputy and a
number of managers fixed by the by-
laws. The president of the board of
managers and his deputy are elected
and their terms of office fixed by the
board of directors. The other members
of the board of managers are appoint-
ed for terms determined: by the board
of directors. The president of the
board of managers is responsible to

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 10 ---
the board of directors for the execut-
ion of all decisions of the board of
directors and for the general conduct
of the business of the bank.

HE BANK is the exclusive bank

of issue and, subject to Allied
direction, may issue and distribute
bank notes and coins. In addition, the
bank promotes the solvency and li-
quidity of the member banks and
establishes common policies with re-
spect to banking in general and uni-
formity in banking policies within the
states.

The bank may issue directions for
the general regulation of bank credit,
including interest and discount rates
and open market operations of the
member banks. The bank fixes the
minimum reserve requirements for
the member state central banks and
may regulate the establishment of
minimum reserve requirements for
individual banks. It assumes and
effects all banking transfers resulting
from the orders of third parties and
which are transfers over state bound-
aries. Credit institutions must execute
all such transfers through their
accounts with the central banks.

The bank may engage in the follow-
ing transactions with central banks:
purchase and sell foreign exchange
and gold, silver and platinum, subject
to existing legal restrictions; accept
deposits; rediscount bills of exchange;
provide facilities for the safekeeping
and custody of securities and valu-
ables; and grant loans against bills of
exchange, treasury bills and securities
issued by the Bizonal Economic Ad-
ministration or by any state within
the area of the member state central
banks, and fixed-interest-bearing se-
curities which any member state
central bank has purchased on the
open market.

The bank may serve as fiscal
agent, without charge, for the Bizonal
Economic Administration, including
acceptance of deposits, purchase and
sale of treasury bills and fixed-
interest-bearing securities, and pro-
vision of payment facilities and fa-
Cilities for the safe-keeping and cus-
tody of valuables and securities, It
also may grant to the Bizonal Eco-
nomic Administration short-term ad-
vances in anticipation of specific rev-

JANUARY ‘11, 1949

enues, advances which do not exceed
DM _ 300,000,000 unless the board of
directors by a decision of three-
quarters of its members raises it to
DM _ 500,000,000. It may grant to any
one or more of the states of Rhine-
land-Palatinate, Wuerttemberg-Hohen-
zollern and South Baden in the French
Zone, short-term advances in anti-
cipation of specific revenues not in
the aggregate to exceed the amount
of DM 40,000,000, unless the Board of
Directors, by a decision of three
quarters of its members, raises this
limit to DM 60,000,000.

In the open market, the bank may
purchase and sell treasury bills and
fixed-interest-bearing securities of the
Bizonal Economic Administration.

UBJECT to any legislation for the
time being in force, the bank may
directly or through authorized agents,
acquire and dispose of, for its own
account or the account of others,

foreign exchange (defined as means
of payment and bills of exchange ex-
pressed in foreign currencies and
balances with foreign banks), gold,
silver and platinum, and for this pur-
pose it may maintain accounts with
foreign banks. The bank regulates
foreign exchange fransactions includ-
ing, when licensed, foreign exchange
transactions prohibited by Article I of
MG Law No. 53 or Article II of MG
Law No. 52 in respect of property
covered by Article I, paragraph 1 (f)
of the latter law.

Upon request, the bank serves as
fiscal agent for JEIA and equivalent
agencies in other German states. It
regulates the collection, assembly and
evaluation of monetary and banking
statistics and establishes rules for
their preparation by and through the
member banks. It also fixes and
publishes interest and discount rates
for its transactions with them. -+- END

Bavarian Firm Decartelized

The first order to a Bavarian firm
to dissolve itself under provisions of
US Military Government Law No. 56
on decartelization has been issued,
Mr. Francis O'Connell, chief of the
Decartelization Branch, Office of Mili-
tary Government OMG Bavaria,
announced,

The order, issued by the Bipartite
Decartelization Commission in Frank-
furt, named the Zentral-Einkauf Bay-
rischer Kohlenbergwerke und Salinen
(Central Purchasing Organization of
Bavarian Coal Mines and Salt Works).

The commission, which had the case
under consideration since March 1948,
found that the association had been
formed for the purpose of supplying
materials and equipment to its member
mines and that it represented an
excessive concentration of German
economic power in that it had mono-
polistic control of the allocation,
sale, and distribution of mining equip-
ment in Bavaria.

It was further found that the
association practiced discriminatory
restrictions in membership and alloc-
ated materials and fixed quotas other

7

than in an advisory capacity. The
commission added, however, that
nothing in the order prohibits the
formation of a new association of
mining establishments “provided the
charter of, and the practices followed
by, such new association conform in
all respects with US MG Law No. 56.”

MG Law No. 56 provides against
excessive concentration of German
economic power and the fixing of
prices, elimination of competition,
allocation of goods or customers,
limitation of production and the set-
ting of quotas in restraint of trade.
Mr. O'Connell defined decartelization
as “the breaking up of monopolies in
the various fields of trade and com-
merce in order to benefit the in-
dependent business man, small trader,
or artisan.”

The size of a business has no
bearing upon whether its contracts
or practices come under the regul-
ations of Law No.56, he added. “A
small business is just as potentially
capable of making a deal to eliminate
competition as a large one,” Mr.
O'Connell said.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
From the EC to Washington via Telephoto

This series of photographs illustrates the method by
which the US Army Signal Corps handles pictures of
incidents and events in the European Command, which
are of interest to Americans back home, for transmission
by telephoto to Washington. Photographers of the 7796th
Signal Photo Co. at Hanau, Germany, where EUCOM's
central photo laboratory is situated, are available at a

Cpl. Leo H. McNally (left) and Pic Adion O, Stuart
take pictures of the arrival of flour donated by
Americans for blockaded Berlin.

moment's notice for photograph coverage. Immediately
upon completion of an assignment, the films are taken
to the nearest military post laboratory for processing, or
returned to the Hanau laboratory. Within two hours
the finished radio prints are on their way to Frankfurt
by special courier for transmission by telephoto to the
United States, for reproduction in US newspapers,

Pfc David E. Colson, news editor of the 7796th
Signal Photo Co., edits a negative before it is sent
to Frankfurt.

Cpl. Donald McCoy, laboratory tech- Pic Otto A. Kemp, courier, hurries to James L, Whitney of the Department
nician, examines finished radio photo his vehicle with a print he is taking of the Army, transmits photo to
print before it is dried. to the laboratory. Washington. (US Army photographs)

INFORMATION BULL!

8

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 12 ---
HE GERMAN _ communications

system in the Bizonal Area has
been fully restored to its prewar level
of service,

This achievement largely is the re-
sult of the improvement of the
Deutsche Post which combines the
functions of a postal service, a tele-
phone system and a telegraph com-
pany, plus offering financial services
of banking and financial institutions.
Its busses, which carry fare-paying
passengers as well as mail and freight,
are in many instances the only con-
necting link between isolated German
villages and the larger cities. Its em-
ployees, exceeding 200,000, are mostly
civil servants,

Full restoration of German commu-
nications services, vital not only to
German recovery but for European
recovery as well, has been a basic
objective of Military Government.

The first 16 months following the
German collapse in 1945 saw the re-
Storation of all internal communica-
tions services within the Bizonal Area
and most of the major communications
services between the US, British and
other occupation zones,

A start had also been made toward
putting Germany into contact with the
outside world with the reopening of
limited international postal service in
April 1946 with all countries except
Japan and Spain, and with the initia-
tion of an incoming international par-
cel post service, limited to gift parcels
for the three western zones, the fol-
lowing summer.

Transit telecommunications service
throughout Germany, a vital step in
the restoration of normal communica-
tions throughout Europe, was approved
in December 1946,

Long distance telephone and tele-
graph service, which was made avail-
able to the German public in the US
Zone six months after the cessation of
hostilities, was reopened between all
occupied zones and the city of Berlin
early in 1946, and on April 1, 1947, both
international telephone and telegraph
service on a limited basis was re-
sumed between the Bizonal Area and
the United States, other Western Hemi-

All photographs
by German Postal Administration.

by Elise F. Hawtin

Bipartite Control Office Section
PIO OMGUS (Frankfurt)

sphere countries and most of western
Europe.

Although collect telephone calls and
prepaid telegrams from the Bizone to
certain other countries were author-
ized at the same time, limited for-
eign exchange funds restricted normal
outgoing international service to
businessmen whose activities were
essential to German economic re-
covery.

YEAR AGO less than 2,000 Ger-

man firms and individuals in the
Bizone were authorized to make inter-
national telephone calls or send inter-
national telegrams. Today all Ger-
mans in the Bizonal Area can call the
United States, Sweden, Brazil and
Argentina, even on a reversed charge
basis for both business and social pur-
poses, and about 4,000 can phone any
country to which service is available
on business matters.

There are no restrictions on the
dispatch of outgoing telegrams to
17 Latin American countries and to
Czechoslovakia due to those countries
accepting messages on a “sender keep

(Continued on next page)

This is the telegraph office with employes at their teletype machines, in Frankfurt’; new communications center,

--- Page 13 ---
all” basis, The “sender keep all’ prin-
ciple as applied to international com-
munications permits the country of
origin to keep the entire message fee
for each originating communication.

Any bona fide business message can
be sent anywhere in the world, This
progressive relaxation of existing re-
strictions was authorized in order to
promote the expansion of the German
export-import program and to stimu-
late western German recovery.

When negotiations are completed,
postal and telecommunications rela-
tions between the Bizone and Spain
and Japan will be resumed, Then, bi-
zonal Germany will for the first time
since 1939 be in communication with
all countries of the world.

Other services were also added, im-
proved and supplemented throughout
1948 to speed the exchange of corre-
spondence and goods between western
Germany and the remainder of the
world. Incoming international airmail
service was reopened April 1 and
limited outgoing airmail service on
May 1, Effective Oct, 20 all restric-
tions were lifted on the use of out-
going airmail by bizonal Germans, and
Germans are now permitted to send
as well as receive packages with the
inauguration in October of two-way
international parcel post service,

Similar impetus was given to the
expansion of international radio tele-
graph and radio telephone facilities
during this same 12-month period.
Direct radio telegraph service between
the Bizone and South America was
introduced Nov. 1, 1947, and direct
telephone service to Brazil and Argen-
tina the following spring, Denmark
was added to the growing list of coun-
tries willing to accept collect calls
from Bizonal Germans and person-to-
person calls were authorized in the
international long distance service.

Today, calls can be placed even to
passengers on ships at sea, German
coastal maritime radio stations were
brought back onto the international
scene with the authorization in May
of marine ship-to-shore radio tele-
graph service,

The value of this service, which
flashes navigational bulletins, storm
reports and routine docking  in-
structions to ships at sea, was demon-
. si strated four months later when the
Test board for checking the transmission of telegraph messages. Kiel coastal maritime station was able

INFORMATION BULLETIN 10 JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 14 ---
to direct rescue operaions for a Danish
ship which had sunk in the Baltic after
hitting a mine off the German coast.

Domestic interzonal telephone and
telegraph service was also improved
with the addition of 30 new categories
of service, including facilities for send-
ing urgent personnel, press or govern-
ment messages. A special prewar
frontier service was revived enabling
Germans living in border communities
to phone towns in adjacent countries
on the other side of the German
boundary line.

One of the most marked develop-
ments in the communications field dur-
ing the past year has been the greatly
increased speed and dependability of
all categories of service,

Despite badly-worn and over-loaded
equipment and a chronic shortage of
skilled personnel, the Deutsche Post
handled an average of 300,000,000 let-
ters a month during the first six
months of 1948, and more than
1,000,000 incoming packages.

About 3,000,000 telegrams a month
were sent during the first half of 1948
—four times as many as were filed in
an average month in 1938. More than
154,000,000 phone calls a month were
made during this same period of 1948
—25,000,000 more than in 1938, The
volume of long distance calls was
double that of prewar years,

This abnormal traffic burden, which
reached its peak during the third week
in June, shortly before announcement
of currency reform, took a sharp drop
in the first two weeks after conver-
sion, The biggest drop was in the num-
ber of long distance phone calls made,
but both mail and telegraph traffic
fell to about half the preconversion
volume.

At the end of the first month after
the new money came into circulation
Deutsche Post traffic was back to the
1937 level and by Oct. 1, while still
below the abnormal preconversion
volume, had surpassed prewar levels.
Marked improvement in service was
an immediate effect of the reduced
traffic load,

i A year ago about 15 percent of all
intra-zonal long distance calls placed
Were cancelled by the originator due
to the excessive delays involved. To-
day few calls, even to the most
distantly-located points in the Bizonal

JANUARY 11, 1949

Area, require more than 15 minutes
to complete.

VERALL IMPROVEMENT in per-

sonnel efficiency has also con-
tributed to the general betterment of
service. This increase in efficiency is
due partly to the fact that excessive
overtime formerly demanded of the
undermanned Deutsche Post staff is
no longer required, It is also due to
the more selective personnel policy
immediately instituted by the German
Bizonal Department for Posts and
Telecommunications as the labor
supply increased after June 20, and

Bomb ruins of main pre-war commu-

nications center in Frankfurt with
new communications building in left-
hand corner.

to the newly-placed emphasis on lan-
guage and technical instruction.

One hundred sixty thousand more
telephones were in use Oct. 1, 1948,
than a year before, bringing the total
number to above 1,600,000, Only about
five percent of this number is in use
by occupation forces, Hundreds of
additional operating positions have
been added to German switchboards.
The increased speed and dependa-
bility of all categories of communica-
tions service has had an important
effect on German morale as well as
proving directly beneficial to the
economy.

The return of communications facil-
ities to German control and opera-

11

tion during the past year kept pace
with the rapid rehabilitation of the
communications network, By Nov, 1,
1947, the majority of German tele-
communication services in the US
Zone had been transferred to German
civil control, These included more
than 2,500 miles of telephone and tele-
graph open wire lines which had been
operated by the US Army since the
end of the war.

By Jan. 1, 1948, the Deutsche Post
had taken over responsibility for all
telegraph services which the US com-
mercial companies licensed to operate
in the Bizonal Area had been per-
forming for occupation personnel, The
single exception was Press Wireless,
which was authorized to continue in
order to insure specialized service to
the Allied press,

A month after US commercial tele-
graph companies ceased to operate in
the Bizone, the single US commercial
telephone company, which had been
licensed by Military Government to
provide overseas telephone service
from the Bizone to the Western Hemi-
sphere, also terminated its activities,
placing all international telephone and
telegraph service for Germans and
Allied personnel through German
facilities,

The Deutsche Post was fully pre-
pared to meet the technical demands
of this newly-delegated authority, In
December 1947 two specially-designed, °
German-built radio transmitters were
installed in a station situated in the
outskirts of Frankfurt, becoming the
first German-owned, constructed and
operated commercial radio equipment
to be installed in the Bizone during
the postwar period. On Jan. 1, 1948,
this station became the only radio
telegraph link between Germany and
the United States.

The first radio teletype equipment
ever used in German post history was
also installed in December, Developed
during the war, this equipment elimi-
nates manual operations and by re-
ducing personnel requirements has
made it possible to handle a steadily
increasing overseas traffic load.

In order to fulfill its commitments
in the field of overseas radio tele-
phone, special equipment of a type
never before produced in Germany
was needed by the Deutsche Post.

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Although only two engineering firms
in the world had previously produced
this particular type of transmitting
equipment, the German firm of Lorenz
A.G. announced it was prepared to
undertake its manufacture, at a saving
of about $1,000,000. Completed a year
later, the new installation is one of
the world’s most niodern transoceanic
radio telephone stations, providing
continous transatlantic communi-
cations except under the most ad-
verse weather conditions,

With the completion of this station
the Deutsche Post returned to the US
Army all Signal Corps equipment
with which it had been operating.
From now on international radio tele-
phone traffic from the Bizonal Area
will be handled entirely over German-
manufactured equipment.

Certain broad responsibilities in the
field of radio communications will
revert to German control by decision
of the Military Governors reached on
July 15, 1948, This delegated authority
covers control over all radio fre-
quency emitting equipment and the
licensing of both Germans and eligible
Allied personnel for amateur radio
operations, Allocation of radio fre-
quencies and control over radio
broadcasting are still reserved to
Allied Military Government.

Further authority was placed in
Deutsche Post hands when negotiations
at the international level on the tech-
nical operation of telecommunications
circuits became a full German respon-
sibility on Aug. 1. Control over
circuits transiting the Bizone to other
countries still rests with Military
Government.

The issuance of postage stamps
without prior MG approval also
became a German responsibility in
August.

Censorship of German civilian mail,
telephone calls and telegrams, both
internal and international, originating
or terminating in the US Zone, ended
Oct. 15, by MG order. The original
regulations relating to the subject
matter of German civil communi-
cations prescribed by ACA and
German laws in effect still stand,
however, and the US occupation
forces reserve the right to impose
censorship on communications to and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

from the US Zone in the interests of
occupational security.

LTHOUGH the demands of
western Germany's expanding
economy had prompted the establish-
ment of a bizonal communications
organization in March 1947 to ex-
pedite the rehabilitation of the com-
munications network in the combined
US and British Zones, it has been
basic MG policy to press for the re-
sumption of all interzonal and major
international communications services
on a uniform basis throughout the
whole of Germany.
The Bizonal Area now leads the
remainder of Germany in the restor-
ation of services, but considerable

The following articles concern-
ing communications in Germany
were published in previous issues
of the Information Bulletin:

Civil Communications in.
Issue No.6, Sept. 1, 1945.

Civilian Mail Service Resumed, Issue
No. 9, Sept. 22, 1945.

Germany,

Revival. of Communications, Issue
No. 13, Oct, 20, 1945.
Reichspost—A Monopoly, Issue No. 27,

Feb. 2, 1946.

Amy Use of Reichspost Facilities,
Issue No. 33, March 16, 1946.
Relchspost Rates Raised, Issue No. 37,
April 15, 1946.

Denazifying the Reichspost, Issue
No. 40, May 6, 1946.
Long Distance Telephone Service,

Issue No. 44, June 3, 1946.
Communications, Issue No. 80, Feb. 17,
1947,
Bizonal Agency for Communications,
Issue No. 84, March 17, 1947.
Restoration of Communications, Issue
No. 105, Aug. 11, 1947,

progress in the rehabilitation of com-
munications for all four zones
continued to be made through quadri-
partite action during the first six
months of the period Oct. 1, 1947—
Oct, 1, 1948,

Four-power agreement had been
reached on Dec. 1, 1947, for the re-
sumption of international telegraph
service and on Feb. 1, 1948, for inter-
national telephone service on a
Germany-wide basis. Uniform postage
stamps were in use in the Bizone,
the Soviet Zone and Berlin.

Other services approved during the
past year included facilities for
sending registered mail, receipt of
delivery notices and a small packet
service for sending parcels as regular
letter mail. Special provisions were

12

approved for mailing parcels to
German prisoners of war in France
and Czechoslovakia and there was a
significant expansion in the postal
service between Austria and Germany
by four-power agreement.

There was only one exception to
the general trend of the past year
toward lifting communications re-
strictions. By quadripartite decision
the transmission of tobacco and to-
bacco products to Germany through
the international mails was prohibited
on Dec. 1, 1947, in view of their use
on the black market.

CORES of communications mea-

sures were under discussion at
quadripartite level when all four
power meetings were suspended by
Soviet action on March 20. Approval
had in many instances been reached
on many of these proposals and only
awaited implementing action by the
Allied Communications and Posts
Committee,

Because a minimum level of inter-
national service had to be maintained,
even in the absence of a central
Allied administration, mandatory cor-
respondence with foreign adminis-
trations was carried on by the var-
ious Allied secretariat members, and
international accounting continued to
be done by the German staff under
the rotating supervision of the Allied
working party delegates,

The mere continuation of a mini-
mum international communications
service soon proved inadequate to
the growing demands of the west
German economy. Early in September
1948 a tripartite Provisional Posts
and Telecommunications Commission,
made up of US, British and French
representatives, was established.

Within a month the new com-
mission had taken unified action for
the three western zones to reestablish
outgoing and incoming international
parcel post, resume postal and tele-
communications relations with Spain
and Japan, establish unrestricted out-
going airmail service for the trizonal
area and to authorize an incoming
international postal and telegraphic
money order service. The French
Zone had been virtually fused with
the Bizone from the communications
standpoint since April 1, 1948 when

(Continued on page 28)

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 16 ---
HE QUIETNESS of the US elec-

tions, the accessibility of top po-
litical leaders, the democratic char-
acter of state universities and the
great number of large automobiles
were a few of the impressions four
German political leaders brought back
from a recent visit to the United
States, The four made more than 70
official contacts, including conferen-
ces, interviews, broadcasts and
meetings,

The four men, representing the two
major political parties—Social Demo-
cratic and Christian Democratic
Union—in the US Zone, left last Oc-
tober for a 30-day visit to observe
the national elections and political
and economic life in generally in
America,

They were Dr. Werner Hilpert,
chairman of the CDU in Hesse and
Hessian deputy minister president and
finance minister; Erwin Schoettle,
chairman of the SPD in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, Stuttgart publisher and
member of the Bizonal Economic
Council; Waldemar von Knoeringen,
chairman of the SPD in Bavaria, and
Ernst Mueller-Hermann, deputy chair-
man of the CDU, Bremen.

Arrangements for the trip were
made by the Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army, and the
Civil Administration Division, OM-
GUS, which provided the escort
Officer, Many former Military Gov-
ernment officials, now living in the
United States, personally assisted in
making the trip a success, as well as
State Department, newspaper, radio
and political figures.

The trip took the delegates to many
eastern and mid-west cities including
Boston, New York City, Washington,
Minneapolis and Detroit, Election day
was spent observing the process of

JANUARY 11, 1949

by

an American election in Rochester,
Ne

The first reaction of the Germans
was surprise at seeing cities with no
bomb damage. They also were im-
pressed by the number and size of
automobiles in the United States.
A member of the party attempted
to count them on a main street
but finally gave up. In a_broad-
cast later, he confessed he was parti-
cularly amazed at the size of the
ordinary cars, remarking that in Ger-
many such autos would be owned
only by very rich people or officials
of Military Government.

The accessibility of political leaders,
even in the heat of the presidential

Louis Kelly

Special Escort Officer
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS

campaign, was a source of wonder
and satisfaction to the Germans. Po-
litical figures were generous with
their time in explaining the issues
and mechanics of a national election.
The Germans remarked about the
quiet way in which elections were
conducted, adding that there seemed
to be more excitement after election
than before it was held, in contrast
to electicns as conducted in Germany,
The fact that the election took place
on a week day rather than on a Sun-
day seemed peculiar to them.
Generally, they were unwilling to
comment either before or after the
elections, saying they regarded this
as an American matter and not some-
(Continued on next page)

Louis Wehle, Rochester businessman, shows the German political leaders

a photograph of himself and President Truman shaking hands. Mr. Wehle
entertained the Germans at his hunting lodge. (Left to right) Ernst
Mueller-Herman (Bremen); Dr. Werner Hilpert (Hesse); Waldemar von

Knoeringen (Bavaria); Mr.
Baden), and Mr. Kelly,

13

Wehle;
escort officer and author of

Erwin Schoettle (Wuerttemberg-

this article.
(Photo by Campbell, Rochester, N.Y.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
thing about which they should ex-
press opinions,

However, they were in accord on
the idea that it would be less dam-
aging to their interests and to the
workings of the Marshall Plan if there
were no time lapse between elections
and the day when the President and
the new Congress took office in 1949.
They regarded a Congress friendly
to the Administraticn as favorable to
European recovery.

On the subject of German recov-
ery, they stated that as yet there
were not too many signs of the work-
ings of the Economic Cooperative
Administration, but believed this un-
doubtedly was due to the fact that
it had not yet emerged from the pipe-
line. On many occasions all the mem-
bers said they based their hopes on
a European recovery rather than
merely a German recovery. Their
sentiments indicated thinking along
broader lines than might be expected,
and did much to create a favorable

in¥bression.

EWSPAPER INTERVIEWS were
frequent and everyone in the
party developed “flash bulb blind-
ness” as as result of the many photo-
graphs taken, The newspaper inter-
views were not of first class quality,
even though reporters were briefed
beforehand on the background of
each member of the party. Although
at least three of the Germans had
traveled extensively and, therefore,
had seen cities of no small size, the
visitors were continually asked their
impressions about the tall buildings
in the Uniited States.

The reporters showed more interest
in Ilse Koch (principal in the recent
controversy over the reduction of
her war crimes sentence), and whether
the Germans were ready to take up
arms against an enemy, than they
were in German recovery or progress
in setting up a stable form of govern-
ment.

Probably the poorest interview was
in Washington, Misquotes on the Rus-
sian situation were so common during
the first few days that the Germans
were very cagey afterwards and
would make only the most conserv-
ative statements or refuse opinions
altogether.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The attitude of the American
people was friendly and helpful. This
can be accounted for partly by the
fact that the non-Nazi background of
the group was stressed in a paper
prepared and distributed beforehand
to each person meeting the party.
This fact also was given good publi-
city by the newspaper reporters, one
of the helpful things that can be
placed to their credit.

Particularly gratifying was the in-
terest shown and the cooperation
offered by former members of Mili-
tary Government. Among these were
Mr. Henry Parkman, who had been
governmental administration adviser,
CINCEUR, and director of CAD,
OMGUS; Mr. Richard M, Scammon,
chief, Political Activities Branch
CAD; Mr. Saymour Bolton, Political
Affairs Branch, CAD; Mr. Wiliam
Kelmsley, Manpower Division, OM-
GUS; Dr. Carl Friedrich, govern-
mental affairs adviser, OMGUS; Lt.
Col. Robert Philpott, area commander,
OMG Bavaria; Mr. Lawrence Dawson,
formerly of UNRRA, now with the
State Department; Mr. William Draper,
Jr., Economics Adviser, CINCEUR and
director of Economics Division,
OMGUS, and now Undersecretary of
the Army.

AFL and CIO officials, jointly and
individually, were very cooperative
in giving the visitors time and enter-
tainment as well as explaining the part
organized labor plays in the United
States. .

In Concord, Mass., they were very
much impressed to learn that the head
of the board of selectmen was a man
who had not been born in the United
States. Dr. Hilpert remarked that this
gave him renewed hope that refugees
and expellees could be absorbed into
the German population to take their
rightful place in the political parties.

Upon viewing a bullet hole from
the Revolutionary War, carefully
framed for posterity, Mr. von Knoerin-
gen told the selectmen that if they
were short of bullet holes in Concord,
he would gladly ship them as many
as they wanted from Munich, where
they were badly overstocked.

The idea of a state university,
where people of ordinary means are
offered higher education, was reveal-
ing. They expressed great interest in

14

the setup of the University of Minne-
sota, contrasting conditions there with
the difficulties of German students in
obtaining higher education, excepting
those favored either by wealth or fam-
ily position,

All four of the group spoke at the
faculty luncheon given by the pres-
ident of the university, each reporting
that ho had learned information that
could be taken back to Germany and
used to advantage.

ERHAPS the two high points in

the trip were Washington and
Detroit. In Washington, they were
impressed with the city itself, and
with the people they met at the Pen-
tagon and in the State Department

In Detroit they visited the Ford
plant at River Rouge. The plant
employs about 90,000 persons and is
delivering some 5,700 cars a day. To
see a car start at one end of the
production line as just a frame and
emerge at the other end as a com-
pleted vehicle interested the visitors
particularly.

Altogether, the trip successfully ac-
complished its purpose. There is no
doubt that many impressions of the
United States were corrected by the
sights and the contacts these political
leaders made. The visit should result
in greater understanding and coope-
ration as they discuss with other
Germans what they have seen of the
organization and production of the
United States. + END

Institute Established *

An Institute of Public Affairs has
been established by Military Govern-
ment in Frankfurt to serve as a
center for visiting professors, public
officials and other experts who come
to Germany as a part of the Military
Government exchange program; a
center for developing in-service
training for civil servants; a distri-
bution center for political and social
science literature from the United
States and other democratic coun-
tries; a reference and-a_ research
center in the fields of social sciences,
public administration, and community
organization; and a center to further
the development of institutional ser-
vices in the field of public health
and public welfare.

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 18 ---
Property Restitution

F GERMANY is to regain her

reputation among other civilized
nations of the world it is imperative
that losses inflicted upon persecutees
during the Hitler regime be restored
as far as is possible. For this reason,
Military Government has_ enacted
MG Law No. 59 under which about
65,000 petitions for restitution of
identifiable property have been re-
ceived by the Central Filing Agency.

Recently, the members of the Board
of Review were appointed. They are:
Judge Johnson T. Crawford of Ada,
Okla.; Frederick G. Hulse of Monroe,
N.Y.; Judge Meyer L. Casman of
Philadelphia, and Capt. Peter J, Flan-
agan of New York City. Judge Craw-
ford was named president of the
board,

The board has its principal seat at
Nuremberg, but it may sit at such
other places in the US Zone as it
may from time to time deem appro-
priate, It is the highest authority in
all restitution matters arising in the
US Zone,

Whereas the lower authorities,
restitution agencies, restitution cham-
bers, and Civil Division of the
Germany Court of Appeals (Ober-
landesgericht) are German, the board
consists of four US citizens appointed
by the Military Governor for at least
one year.

Members are qualified for their
office only if they have been admitted
to practice law for at least five years
in the highest courts of any one of
he United States, its territories or
the District of Columbia, Regulation
No. 4 explicitly provides that they
must devote their full time to their
duties on the board.

The task of the newly-appointed
members of the Board of Review is
linked to MG Law No. 59, which they
have to apply and construe. This law,
in effect since Nov. 10, 1947, provides

for the restitution of identifiable
Property taken from its rightful
Owners during the period from

Jan. 30, 1933 to May 8, 1945 under

JANUARY 11, 1949

duress arising from discrimination
because of race, religion, nationality,
ideology or political opposition to
National Socialism.

Originally, efforts were made to
place restitution of property on a
quadripartite basis. However, no
agreement between the four powers
could be reached, In the US Zone, the
enactment of MG legislation was
chosen. As MG Law No. 59 is to be
administered by German governmental
agencies and ordinary courts, the
German text of the law is governing,
although this isa departure from usual
Military Government practice.

LTHOUGH the basic principle
laid down in MG Law No. 59
stems from US policy, the scope of
restitution is determined by reference
to provisions of German civil law.
The Board of Review, though exclu-
sively American, is therefore faced
to a considerable extent with the
task of applying and construing
German law. In order to facilitate
this task, the Board of Review is to
appoint a legal adviser familiar with
the German language and German
law to assist the board members.

The jurisdiction of the Board of
Review is limited. It may. review
decisions of the Court of Appeals as
weli as decisions of the restitution
chambers, Decisions of the Court of
Appeals are subject to review by the
board only on the ground that the
decision under review violates the
law. Appeals from decisions of the
restitution chambers may be taken
with respect to the question of (a)
whether findings of fact are support-
ed by substantial evidence, (b)
whether there has been abuse of
discretion by the chamber and (c)
whether prejudice on the part of the
chamber is indicated.

Because different grounds are
provided for an appeal to the Civil
Division of the Court of Appeals
and for review by the board, the
aggrieved party may seek both appeal

15

by Edmund H. Schwenk
Attorney, Legal Division, OMGUS

to the Civil Division and review by
the board. tn order that the board
should not review a decision before
the Civil Division has entered
judgment, the aggrieved party can
file a petition for review by the Board
only after’ the Civil Division has
rendered its decision. Even though an
application for review is properly
filed, the board may, within its dis-
cretion, refuse to grant petition for
review. This discretion is modelled
after those provisions under which
the US Supreme Court grants or
refuses certiorari (request for per-
mission to appeal). The decision of
the board is final.

Once a petition is granted, the
board may enter judgment affirming,
modifying, or revising, in whole or in
part, the decision reviewed, and order
execulion thereof; or, in its discretion,
remand the case or any part thereof
to the restitution chamber or the
Civil Division of the Court of Appeals
which had previously heard the case.

The opinions of the board, as far as
they involve interpretation of MG Law
No. 59, are binding upon all German
courts and authorities. This notion
of stare decisis (the binding effect of
high courts upon lower courts or
agencies) is a novelty in German
legal experience. It was previously
provided only in MG Proclamation
No. 8, “Establishment of a German
High Court for the Combined Economic
Area” in regard to the decisions of
the High Court.

A second novel principle is found
in the fact that the Board of Review
may render opinions not only upon a
petition for review, but also upon
request of the Military Governor if he
deems such an opinion necessary or
desirable in order to expedite the
administration of MG Law No. 59 or
to insure uniform application or inter-
pretation of that law.

With the establishment of the board
and the appointment of its members,
the machinery for the execution of
MG Law No. 59 has been completed.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Lt. Col. Blechare and two sisters present Christmas gifts to German
children at a party held in the 98th General Hospital, Munich. Two
hundred children were entertained (US Army photo)

GYA donations for Christmas parties in Be
Robert A, Willard, commanding officer of
Lt. Col. E. W. Hilton, BMP Special seri
BMP GYA officer.

HRISTMAS is a time for giving. Prob-
ably no better group example of the
generous yuletide spirit could be found this)
past holiday season than that of the
Santa Claus entertains children of German employes of the Oltice of Americans in Germany. Giving took every
Military Government, Hesse, at Wiesbaden. Santa was played by George form—from dolls to venison—as the military,
Fleisher, Information Division, OMGH. (PIO OMGH) civilians and their dependents remembered
those less fortunate than they in com
munities all over the US Zone and Berlim

Most Americans gave in two ways: to
those Germans with whom they came in
contact at home and at work, and t0
organized projects for German children, im
stitutions and old people. Of the individual
acts of kindness—small parties in Ameri
homes, gifts of specific items, remembrance!
from office workers to German employee:
there is no count, But the number was high
in the thousands.

Moreover, German children and grownw
had an opportunity to see how Christm
is celebrated in the United States. In all
25 of the US Information Centers throughout
the US Zone a 12-panel pictorial display
CARE packages donated by Indiana University students are distributed was shown depicting “Christmas in Americay
to Frankiurt University students by Dr. Franz Montgomery, Higher including the decorating of city streets
Education Chief, Office of Military Government, Hesse. (PIO Hesse) carol singing and the holiday observance iB

INFORMATION BULLETIN 16 JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 20 ---
totaled $18,243. In the above photo, Col.
lin Military Post, checks the figures with
fficer (left), and Capt. Philip J. O'Neil,

(US Amny photo)

e American home.
Also shown were scenes tracing the com-
hon origin of American and Western
uropean Christmas customs, and pointing
ut that the Christmas spirit flourishes not
ust in Germany but in countries all over
ie world.
Most organized Christmas projects were
ponsored by German Youth Activities
ersonnel to which Americans as well as
ermans contributed. A large part of the
roceeds was spent in bringing cheer to
ousands of young Germans who have no
lirect contact with Americans in their daily
fe. Approximately $242,380 and DM 39,905
ere donated to these Christmas activities.
This money was used to give more than
482 holiday Parties for a total of 1,534,082
emman children. In addition, thousands of
ars of candy, toys, clothing and other
ems were donated as gifts for German
ys and girls at the parties,
All kinds of events were held to raise
nee Women’s clubs offered dances,
: Stivals and bingo parties. Gls
Tanged football games, lotteries, variety

(Continued on next page)

JANUARY 11, 1949

Members of the 759th MP Battalion in Berlin made thousands of toys
in a wood-working shop established two months before Christmas.

Maj. Arthur C. Beck, who set up the shop, inspects some of the toys.
(US Army photo)

»
Lay
PTRANSTREBH

An “Operation Noel” sign is placed on a truck at Giessen. Every
US military post in Germany helped the project. At right is Lt. Col.
Jerry D, House, commanding officer of the 3rd TC Battalion.

(US Army photo)

Charles M. La Follette, resigned director of the Office of Military
Government, Wueritemberg-Baden, contributes to the OMGWB Chrisi-
mas fund drive. Miss Katherine Shankland accepts donation. (PIO OMGWB)

17 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
shows and theatrical productions.
Civilians and the military alike
volunteered time to push contribution
drives in units and in Military Gov-
ernment.

At the holiday parties, held in
German restaurants, GYA centers,
troop messes, kindergartens, orphan-
ages and children’s hospitals, children
sang the traditional Christmas carols
and some of their number usually
presented a little program. German
volunteers, women’s organizations,
German youth and GIs prepared and
served the meals and distributed the
gifts.

O MAKE available certain items

of food ‘for these Christmas
parties, the Quartermaster cooperated
in every way possible. Extra cocoa
was obtained in England to fill the
demand. Regulations were relaxed to
enable units to buy goods through
authorized GYA personnel.

Foods purchased for children's holi-
day meals were powdered milk,
marmalade, peanut butter, sugar and
bread. In addition, thousands of
pounds of food were contributed by
people in the United States, sent
usually in the form of CARE packages.
Throughout the US occupation area a
total of 427 tons of food was served
in meals or distributed during the
holiday season.

All contributed presents given out
at the parties were sorted in advance
according to age and suitability. They
included toys, clothing, toothbrushes,
toothpaste, soap, towels, combs and
face cloths. Hundreds of the gift toys
had been made or repaired by GIs
and German boys and girls in GYA
workshops. Thousands of articles of
clothing were given away to the
needy.

While many items were in good
condition, others needed mending or
repairing, This was done by a num-
ber of women’s clubs and German
girls in GYA sewing classes, Besides
repair work, German girls in Hoechst
made dresses, shirts, gloves, slippers,
aprons, belts, knitted stockings and
even playthings of bits of cloth and
‘eather.

GYA girls in some groups ripped
and dyed salvage GI trousers and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

remade them into warm garments for
children. Potato sacks were dyed and
made into coats and vests embroid-
ered in bright yarns.

ERHAPS no portion of the US

area of occupation was so well
remembered as that in Berlin where
the Soviet blockade threatened to
make Christmas the bleakest since the
war's end. The comparatively small
number of Americans in Berlin contri-
buted $18,243 so that more than
80,000 Berlin children would not be
forgotten during the holidays. A total
of 302 CARE packages was donated.
People from outside Berlin sent
$1,330, making it possible to give
more than 500 Christmas parties.

In Berlin mess halls, military men
gave up ice cream for two weeks in
advance so that boys and girls could
have it at holiday parties, Enlisted
men of the 279th Station Hospital
pledged one day's pay to the 'Christ-
mas fund, Military Police and en-
gineer battalions made toys. American
dependents mended, repaired and
sorted contributed clothing. The of-
fice of the chaplain gave 400 dolls.
Altogether, 11,000 toys were distri-
buted at parties.

People in western Germany re-
membered Berlin, too; in fact, persons
from as far away as Paris, London,
Vienna, Stockholm and Copenhagen
heard the Christmas fund appeals
announced over AFN and sent money
and gifts. Two of the largest drives
in western Germany to aid Berlin
children were “Operation Noel’ and
“Operation Santa Claus.”

Every American military post in
Germany contributed to ‘Operation
Noel.” Their gifts of candy, food-
stuffs, toys, clothing and other items
poured into Giessen where they were
picked up by truckers of the 3rd
Transportation Truck Bn. and brought
to the unit’s headquarters.

There the gifts were weighed and
assembled for air shipment. The
50 tons of gifts from ‘Operation Noel”
were distributed to thousands of
needy Berlin children.

“Operation Santa Claus’ brought
117 mail sacks of gifts to Berlin from
Americans in the zone.

Other gifts were varied. From
Wiesbaden Air Base came 500 pounds

18

of frozen rabbit meat which was pre-
sented to Berlin hospitals. And a
wide variety of individually-contrib-
uted toys, too numerous to mention,
helped brighten many a Berlin child's
holidays.

LL OVER the zone similiar hol-

iday activities took place. In
Bremerhaven, the Christmas party
committee collected donations of
$14,500 with which 17,000 children
were given parties and gift packages
including a toothbrush, toothpaste,
soap and one toy as well as some
eftems of clothing.

Frankfurt Americans donated $85,000
to the GYA fund which resulted in
the distribution of 75 tons of food to
200,000 children at 350 different parties.
In addition to the food, many of the
children also received items of cloth-
ing which were made by GYA girls
or were given by the military and
civilians of Frankfurt.

In Stuttgart $14,000 was donated,
and 34,457 children at 250 parties
received Christmas stockings contain-
ing candy, oranges, soap, nuts, comb,
toothbrush and toothpaste as well as
items of clothing.

On Dec. 16 a community Christmas
tree was dedicated in the downtown
section of Stuttgart, officially opening
holiday festivities. The dedication was
attended by American and German
officials while a choir of 300 mixed
children’s voices sang Christmas carols
accompanied by the Constabulary
band.

The sum of $26,725 was received
by the USAFE GYA from its fund-
raising activities, of which Clarence
the Camel played no small part.
More than 765 parties were held in
various USAFE installations at which
165,625 children were given various
types of Christmas presents. Two of
the USAFE installations served com-
plete dinners for German children,
using deer meat as the main course.
The deer were shot by officers and
hunting parties of enlisted men of the
Kaufbeuren air force base.

In Munich, raffles, lotteries, carni-
vals and hunters’ skill were com-
bined by the Americans to provide
Christmas cheer for needy Bavaria

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 22 ---
children—regardless of nationality.
About $3,500 worth of candy was
collected through Military Post efforts,
the bulk of which went to refugee
children.

Americans in Munich raised $21,000
and planned 850 parties for 260,000
children. Approximately 58 tons of
food were served at the parties. At
the same time 25,000 toys
distributed.

were

GYA boys and girls of Harlaching
visited a crippled children’s home,
taking presents to the inmates and
entertaining them. The Lenggries
Officers Club held a party on Dec. 20
for refugee children, and on Dec. 21,
22, 23 the Berchtesgaden GYA centers
held parties.

GYA in Wuerzburg collected $6,000
and DM 2,800, which made possible
210 parties for 80,000 children. Two
tons of food were distributed and
24,000 toys were given away.

The German employes of the
Wuerzburg Military Post gave up,
during November and December, the
fruit juice usually served in their
mess and it was collected by GYA as
aChristmas gift to children of refugee
camps in Wuerzburg.

Many German groups held bingo
parties and dances, contributing the
proceeds to the fund. German crafts-
men also gave freely of their time to
make toys.

In Augsburg, $8,500 was collected
to entertain 100,000 children at some
500 parties. More than 22,200 toys
were distributed and 30 tons of food

were served. Sewing, knitting and
handicraft classes worked for two
months in every county to make
presents for poor and underprivileged
children, Every county took care of
at least 300 German children.

N HEIDELBERG, more than $10,000

plus 7,000 items of clothing, were
donated. Heidelberg GYA assumed
the task of providing for a total of
245,000 children throughout the Mili-
tary Post. Individual military and
civilian organizations obtained food
and toys.

Americans and Germans in Wetzlar
spread Christmas cheer by raising
$8,780 and DM 10,105 for 210 parties.
More than 80,000 children were given
presents. The wives of the officers of
one organization gave a party for
70 children at which food, clothing
and toys were distributed. The regular
GYA party, celebrated with food and
toys, was held Dec. 23. A movie of
the “Night Before Christmas’ was
shown, Christmas carols sung and a
Christmas play presented. + END

Bremerhaven Navigation School

The current enrollment in the Bre-
merhaven Navigation School is 48
students. The school is training young
men for work on trawlers and other
small-sized seacraft. Emphasis is
placed on this field of navigation
because, while there is a surplus of
skilled personnel for the navigation
of large ships, there exists a shortage
of personnel trained in the handling
of small sea-going vessels,

Weekly Record Set
In Food Procurement

A record high in weekly food
procurements for the Bizone was set
when more than $15,500,000 worth of
contracts were signed with 16 other
countries in Europe and the Western
Hemisphere during the seven-day
period ending Dec. 9, 1948, the Joint
Food Procurement Office in Frankfurt
announced.

More than $9,000,000 worth of oils
and oil seeds from Holland, Belgium,
Norway and England, and Brazilian
beef, Swiss and Italian vegetables
and West African cocoa beans were
contracted for bizonal delivery under
general import and special JEIA trade
agreements.

Vegetable and field seeds purchased
from seven European countries, the
US and Canada totaled about $5,300,000
and foodstuffs procured out of unspent
dollar funds which have accrued to
the miners and general industrial
incentive schemes added up. to more
than $800,000.

Food procurements were made with
Army-appropriated funds, under JEIA
trade agreements, from dollar earnings
of miners and other industrial groups,
and, in the case of $561,000 worth
of livestock feed, from ECA funds.

$32,000,000 In Exports

More than $32,000,000 worth of
Hessian commodities during the past
year have found their way into the
export markets of the world, it was
revealed by the JEIA Branch of OMG
Hesse.

Unemployment in Bizone Decreases to 704,500

Decreases in the number of un-
employed in the Bizonal Area oc-
curred during November 1948 and y
the end of the month less than four
Percent of the total bizonal labor
force was listed as being without
work, the Bipartite Manpower Group
announced in a preliminary report
compiled from state labor offices.

By Nov. 30 the unemployment
figure amounted to 704,500 (487,580
Men, 216,920 women), which repre-
Sented a decrease of 12,000 since

JANUARY 11, 1949

Oct. 30. Unemployment has decreased
without interruption since the peak
was reached Sept. 9, when 784,657
were registered as unemployed.

The overall decrease in unemploy-
ment has been confined to the US
Zone both during November and
since the peak figure was reached.
Total decreases in the US Zone
from Sept. 9 to Nov. 30 were 82,000,
of which 20,000 occurred during
November.

In the British Zone the overall un-

19

employment figures increased by
8,000. Accounting for a large number
of these unemployed are (1) normal
seasonal] fluctuations, (2) power cuts
and (3) dismissal of Reichsbahn
workers in areas where other indus-
tries cannot immediately absorb them.

Meanwhile, the commercial, ad-
ministrative, unskilled, and _ agri-
cultural occupational groups account
for almost half the total unemployed
in the Bizonal Area, Manpower Group
stated.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 23 ---
Golden Gloves

— German Youths Learn Sportsmanship

LOVED FISTS, guided by the
Americans, are helping German
youth understand and _ appreciate
good sportsmanship as it is practiced
in democratic countries.

Under old German amateur boxing
regulations, the average boy's hands
were literally tied by red tape and
other restrictions. For instance, he
had to belong to a boxing club (na
easy matter), ap-
proved by 15 or
20 various bur-
eaus, before he
was eligible to
compete in a
tournament.

But the current
German Youth
Activities pro-
gram under which
he competes re-
quires only that
the boy's ability
be the deciding
factor in a cham-
pionship match.
He is free to take
part in any tour-
nament.

Golden Gloves
1s a big item in

tourney many German authorities
expressed the desire to join in the
sponsorship and to continue it after
the Allied occupations ends.
Approximately 5,000 Americans and
Germans crowded into the Buerger-
braeu Keller in Munich on the night
of Aug. 5 to watch the final bouts
of the championship tourney. They
included officers and enlisted men of

mother generally has been to remain
on the sidelines.

The spirit of good sportsmanship
was unmistakably evident as winner
and loser in each championship bout
rushed from their corners to con-
gratulate one another. One young-
ster, his arms around his defeated
opponent and tears rolling down his
cheeks, drew prolonged applause
when he said it
was a shame both
couldn't have
won.

The champion-

ship contestants
had been green
kids who had
taken to GYA and
its sports pro-
gram; sweat out
long and_ hard
battles in elimin-
ation matches,

and earned the
right to compete
in the champion-
ship finals.

They were train-

ed formonths by
MI/Sgt. Clyde

the GYA program The left hook thrown by Buchloe seems to have made the hair of Illner Hamlin, a former
to reorient young (down on his haunches) stand on end. But Illner rallied to win the Golden Gloves
Germans who decision in a GYA Golden Gloves elimination bout at Kaufbeuren Air champion from

have known little Force Base.
of the meaning -

of democracy, As is the case in the
United States, where the Golden
Gloves championship tournament is
the goal of every young amateur
boxer who aspires to scale the fistic
ladder, the idea has caught firm
hold on many German youths in the
US Zone.

The idea, which started in 1947 in
several German communities through
locally-sponsored GYA tournaments,
was climaxed by an unusually suc-
cessful US Zone championship show
held in Munich last summer, Not
only did it fire the imagination of
the youngsters, but at the end of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Army and Air Force; Military
Government officials, US dependants,
Munich's mayor—Thomas Wimmer—
and his sports-minded assistant, Dr.
Anton Fingerely; the superintendent
of Munichs schools and chairman of
the City Youth Committee, and other
German officials.

An interesting sidelight was the
fact that mothers of many of the
contestants accompanied their boys
from throughout the zone—hitch-
hiking, riding oxen cars and walking
for miles—to watch the fights. This
was something unusual in German
life, for the role of the German

20

(Air Force photo) Bloomington, IIL,
and M/Sgt. Ted
Rohr, the Munich Military Post's non-

commissioned GYA officer,

Hamlin handled his boys in their
GYA camp at Obie (Oberpfaffen Air
Force Depot). The kids found it a bit
difficult to understand some of the
lessons he taught them, but they learn-
ed that being a gentleman was part
of the boxing game. He called it
sportsmanship. The kids liked it.

Rohr, a former captain who
joined the Army as a “non-com" to
work with the German kids, groomed
his charges at the Buergerbraeu GYA
Center in Munich. Like Hamlin, he
had scrounged food, clothes and

re-

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 24 ---
Oberptiaftenhofen divisional Golden Gloves champions, trom heavyweight to flyweight, who competed in the

USAFE Golden Gloves championship matches at Starnberg, pose with their coach.

other necessities to get them into
shape, and they swore by him.

ONTESTANTS from _ outlying
districts of the US Zone over-
came many difficulties—mostly trans-
portation and financial—to partici-
pate in the tourney. One boy from
Darmstadt was able to fight only
because the townspeople chipped in
to pay his expenses and support his
family while he was absent. Their
faith in him was vindicated, for he
won the title in his weight class and
returned home laden with numerous
prizes. Most of the prizes, donated
by Americans, were food and
clothing.

Fighters from the Roth Air Base
suddenly found themselves without
a military unit to support their GYA
Program, because of withdrawl and
phasing out of troops which included
the GYA officer and NCO. But they
kept their club together and hitch-
hiked to Munich. One of them re-
marked that “We'll be back next
year and take all of the prizes—and
cur GYA club will have more
Members, too.”

JANUARY 11, 1949

Most of the boys had come from
the wrong side of the tracks. They
had been shy, suspicious youngsters,
who knew only that American sol-
diers smoked many cigarettes and
threw away large butts. But associ-
ation with GYA personnel in the
boxing tournaments banished sus-
picions and cultivated mutal friendship.

As an example of this feeling, an

(Air Force photo)

Army medical officer was putting a
patch on the swollen eye of an 18-
year old boy, shortly after the
Golden Gloves tournament ended.
Hesitant, searching for English words,
the youth said:

“Thanks a lot, Herr Doctor—I see
you next year.”

“OK, buddy, I'll see ya," replied the
lieutenant. -++END

US Zone Admitting Sudeten Germans

Effective Jan, 1, Sudeten Germans
domiciled in Czechoslovakia who
desire to enter Germany to take up
residence in the US Zone may do so
by obtaining a Military Entry Permit
issued by the military permit officer
at the American Embassy in Prague.

Displaced Persons Branch, Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS said
this new procedure was inaugurated
to facilitate the reunion of family
units who became separated during
mass transfers of Sudeten Germans to
Germany in 1946.

Under the new procedure, appli-

21

cations for entry permits will be refer-
ted by the military permit officer in
Prague through MG channels to the
German refugee commissioner of the
state to which the applicant plans to
immigrate. The refugee commissioner,
in turn, will refer the applications to
the German authorities in the com-
munity where the individual antic-
ipates taking up residence.

The issuance of a residence permit
by such authorities, plus the approval
of the state refugee commissioner,
will constitute authorization for the
issue of an entry permit.

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

--- Page 25 ---
Basis for Press Laws

ILITARY GOVERNMENT has
recently taken action to prepare
for the end of its controls over the
German press. It has announced that
it will relinquish its licensing powers
in the newspaper publishing field as
soon as adequate legislation to pro-
tect the freedom of the press has been
enacted by the state governments,

In 1945, when the occupation began,
it was a major policy of US Military
Government to guarantee to the
German population an independent
and free press. MG envisaged a press
which would be free of governmental
domination.

Yet, ironically, MG itself in 1945
found it necessary to exercise certain
temporary controls. For example,
there was a severe shortage of
materials and equipment. So it had to
be ensured that the limited facilities
available would be utilized to the
best possible advantage in effecting
Germany's transition into a democratic
society.

Many of the newspaper plants were
in the hands of Nazis. The former
publishers, editors and personnel of
‘the newspapers had been the same
persons who had been carrying out
the policies of Goebbel’s propaganda
ministry. So Military Government set
up a licensing system to place the
newspapers in the hands of editors
dedicated to giving the German
people unbiased news coverage.

The German people have had the
opportunity to judge for themselves
whether these newspapers have done
a good job, and to make a comparison
with the controlled Nazi press which
gave them such a false and distorted
picture of the world.

Military Government set up the
temporary controls in 1945 only
because the unusual conditions pre-
vailing at the time made them neces-
sary. Military Government knew then
that freedom of the press is essential
to the development of a responsible
democracy, and it felt strongly that
-such restrictions affecting freedom of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

— Conditions for End of Licensing

expression should be eliminated at the
earliest possible moment. Military
Government feels that that moment
has come. And it has announced its
intention of giving up its press
licensing power,

UT, one asks, what assurance is
there that the real gains toward

the establishment of a free and in-

dependent press made during the past
three years will be maintained?

First, the new press in the US Zone
will have a certain amount of security
during the period in which it is still
establishing itself. All of the com-
munity newspapers in the zone are
guaranteed the opportunity to sign
contracts enabling them to continue
to use their present publishing plants
at reasonable cost.

The term of these leases is five
years, with a renewal option for
another three years. It is considered
that this eight-year period should
permit the present newspapers to
establish themselves on a firm financial
basis. It should enable them to make
preparations for building their own
plants or purchasing other printing
facilities.

These long-term leases on existing
plants are the first assurance that an
independent press will be able to
survive in Germany after MG control
ends. The second assurance is

This article is adapted from a
radio broadcast given by an
OMGUS spokesman on the sub-
ject “The End of Press Licensing
in the American Zone.” The talk.
was made Dec. 16 over RIAS and
radios Frankfurt, Stuttgart, Mu-
nich and Bremen.

The transcription of a previous
broadcast, “Freedom of the
Press," to the people of the state
of Hesse over the “Voice of
Hesse” program was published
in the Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 150, Dec. 14, 1948.

22

that Military Government will not
relinquish its controls until the state
governments prepare adequate legis-
lation to protect the freedom of the
press.

It is therefore up to the state
governments as to when press licens-
ing in the US Zone will end. Military
Government feels very strongly that
this is a matter for the state govern-
ments, and that it remain outside the
power of any German federal govern-
ment as it is finally determined. It
would be too easy for press legislation
enacted by a central government to
become restrictive instead of pro-
tective. The German people already
have had bitter experience with
a press controlled by the central
government.

HAT Military Government
means by an ‘adequate’ press
law is not a law restricting the press,
but rather a law guaranteeing the
freedom of the press. According to
the views of Military Government—
and most people interested in press
freedom will agree—there are at least
six things which a good press law
must do, These are:
1. A press law must outlaw any

system of special licensing not
required of all other business enter-
prises,

2. A press law must protect the
press from governmental domination or
domination by special interests of any
kind, This does not mean that special
interests—such as political parties or
economic groups—should not have
the right to newspapers of their own.
It does mean that no special interest
should have the opportunity to
establish a monopoly which would
deny the ordinary reader free access
to unbiased news and the opinions of
other groups.

3. A press law must guarantee the
prerogatives of a free press in obtain-
ing and publishing information of
public interest. This means that no
restrictions should be placed on the

‘Continued on page 26)

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 26 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

The Berlin Elections

The Berlin situation including the
municipal elections on Dec. 5, the
Communist-sponsored rump govern-
ment of Friedrich Ebert and new
Soviet blockade measures, comprised
a major portion of the top news in
German newspapers of the US Zone
during the first week in December.

The Stuttgarter Nachrichten called
the election results “an expression
of gratitude for the valiant men of
the air bridge” and a protest against
“the cowardly and inhuman block-
ade.” It continued:

“Berlin has not been split through
the legal elections .... The splitting-
up began at the moment when the
USSR tried to absorb Berlin into a
Sovietized eastern Germany. The
Red Bear (of Berlin's coat of arms)
was to become the symbol for the
enslavement of all of Germany....
We now can state that this offensive
of hypocrisy and violence has been
recognized and stopped. Justice lies
with the West. Return to justice is
the only way to end the split.”

Die Abendzeitung (Munich) said:
“The victory of SPD, and CDU's
losses underline ‘the general trend.
The party which most decisively op-
posed SED (Soviet-backed Socialist
Unity Party) terror triumphed. The
lukewarm parties lost, especially the
Proponents of the ideas of Mayor
Friedensburg Berlin hasn't
tired of the struggle against terror. It
places its trust in the men who mean
to fight to the end.”

Hans J, Reinowski in The Darm-
Staedter Echo wrote:

“They (Berlin voters) have shamed
any inhabitant of the western zones

- who is afraid to express his
Opinion publicly because the Rus-
sians may come some day .... The
Berliners expressed the will of all
Germans under no circumstances to
Temain passive and neutral in the
fight between East and West .
This obligates us all... .

“The elections also proved irre-
futably how the people in the East

JANUARY 11, 1949

really think, while they have to keep
silent under terror .. . ‘Opernbuer-
germeister’ (Opera Mayor) Ebert (the
SED city government was set up in
the state opera house) has done us a
good service by declaring that Berlin
is a part of the eastern zone, We
might go a step further and say that
it is a part of eastern Europe. All
East European nations would vote like

Warning on Nationalism

The Schwaebische Post (Aalen)
warned the Germans against
reviving nationalism:

“The French reaction to the
Anglo-American Ruhr proposals
is a measure of what is thought
of us abroad. The nationalist
inclinations of the German mass-
es has not yet taken very
definite form. But as soon as a
new ‘Fuehrer' appears he will
get a following which will put
all power into his hands...
Extreme nationalism serves the
cause of Bolshevism, which seeks
to use the rivalries between
nations for its own purposes...
The only way to meet this threat
is to throw nationalism over-
board. Only a united West Eu-
rope can defend itself against
Russian attack... We can remain
good Germans, but must also get
accustomed to being good Eu-

ropeans.”

the Berliners — if they got the

chance.”

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
commented on the elevation of Fritz
Ebert to SED mayor of Berlin:

“The method of the ‘Volks Demo-
crats’ is nothing different from that
of the Nazis; unanimity of election
was guaranteed in advance just as
in the Third Reich...”

In the Munich political weekly,
Echo der Woche, political observer
Erich Wollenberg wrote:

“When opposed by a dictatorship,
the greatest and most wonderful

23

election is only a ‘knife without a
blade or a handle.’ It is therefore a
dangerous self-deception to regard
the Berlin (election) victory as a
‘decisive defeat of Soviet commu-
nism’ as is now so generally done
in the western democratic world...
Even after Dec. 5 Berlin remains a
besieged City; the elections did not
change that...

“The western Allies must choose
between Potsdam and the principles
of the Atlantic Charter . . . Berlin
was not split with the formation of
the ‘Opera Government’ on Nov. 30,
but in fact Germany and Europe were
split already with Potsdam and, be-
fore that, with Teheran and Yalta...
The political consequence of Dec. 5
ought to be the holding of general
democratic elections under UN con-
trol in all parts of Germany, on both
sides of the Iron Curtain, and within
the boundaries of 1938."

The newly licensed Heidenheimer
Zeitung pointed out that, ‘whatever
the jarring note which may formerly
have been connoted south of the Main
by the name of Berlin, it now shines
in fullest glory . . . The moral great-
ness of Berlin should lead us to
overcome group and provincial dif-
ferences and to feel ourselves as
members of a nation which has once
more won the right to live. Young
German democracy has withstood its
baptism of fire, not in Munich or
Bonn, but in Berlin.”

Sentences Criticized

The Stuttgarter Zeitung crit’cized
the sentences against Heinz Mokross
and associates who were jailed by an
MG court in connection with the
Stuttgart riot a few months ago. The
riot grew out of a demonstration over
the high cost of living. The paper said:

“The punishment stands in no pro-
portion to what could be proved
against Mokross, but most of all to
what happened in Stuttgart on Oct. 28.
The consequences of those incidents
— including curfew for the whole
city ... were unforeseen; one should

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
not make an immature trouble-maker
pay for it.”

(Editor's mote: Mokross and three
other Germans were convicted on
rioting charges involving attacks on
US military and German police, He
was sentenced to 10 years’ imprison-
ment, The others received lesser sent-
ences.)

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidel-
berg) asked: “Is the excessive
punishment going to convince the
defendants of the wrongness of their
action? Will it not rather confirm
them in the feeling that they are
being treated unjustly? Will the
sentence not also paralyze the will
of the Germans to maintain good
understanding with the members of
the occupation power?”

The Fuldaer Volkzeitung drew a
paralled between the Soviet MG
sentences in the Brandenburg Gate
case in Berlin last September and
American MG sentences in the Stutt-
gart case:

“In both cases the offenses were
insignificant, at least from a demo-
cratic standpoint, At any rate they
would never have been so severely
punished in a court governed by
normal standards of justice. Both
cases demonstrate the worthlessness
of military judgments which consider
only the interests of the occupation
power.”

The Niederbayerische Nachrichten
(Straubing) said that anybody who
reads the Stuttgart judgment “is im-
mediately reminded of the sentences
which a Russian court passed on the
Berlin demonstrators last Septem-
ber ... We are convinced that the
sentence will be revised, just as the
Berlin sentence was revised.”

Playing to Galleries

The Wiesbadener Kurier accused
the parlamentary council at Bonn of
playing to the gallery in its demands
on the occupation powers, thereby
endangering German interests:

“It's a fine bouquet which was pre-
sented to (Generals) Clay, Robertson,
Koenig! Besides such matters as
patent protection, free foreign trade,
reinstatement of international: agree-
ments ... validity of constitutional
tights even against the occupation,
the Bonn gentlemen proposed arbitra-
tion courts for disputes between oc-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

cupation and the occupied...But the
last flower in the bouquet is the best
of all — it reads: “The occupation
powers are required to provide
security for Germany. Emergency
Measures must have a time limit and
be undertaken jointly.’ The ‘wise
virgins’ of Bonn might as well have
invited the Tommies, Jimmies and
Jeans to join a German foreign
legion . . . People like Carlo Schmid
and Konrad Adenauer (delegates to
the council) furnish ammunition to
those voices abroad which complain
ever more loudly of German ‘ar-
togance’ .. , Please remember, gentle-
men, it isn't wise to try to kill too
many flies with one swoop.”

Rudolf Vogel, member of the Ger-
man Bizonal Economic Council, gave
his impressions of Bonn in the
Schwaebische Post (Aalen):

“In many questions, in very, very
many questions, the big parties here
agree on committee proposals. Bonn,
the Lord be praised, has created for
itself an atmosphere different from
Frankfurt ... More than anywhere
else I met here the type which is so
rare in Germany, the type the British
call ‘scholar-politician.’ Finely-mod-
elled heads, a brilliant assembly of
high-minded intellects, and in the
suddenly developing discussions fre-
quently a width of knowledge, an
abundance of memories and historical
information provide a rare educational
chance for the press and the spec-
tators, among whom there are, hap-
pily, many students.”

Hof Youth Forum
The Frankenpost (Hof) carried two
extra pages about an ‘Upper Fran-
conian youth forum in Hof" which
was addressed by Murray D. Van
Wagoner, director of Military Gov-
ernment, Bavaria; James S. Clars, of

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board for the Inform-
ation Services Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
portray what the Germans are
writing und thinking, and not
necessarily to give any concur-
tence to their views and opinions.

24

the Information Services Division;
Michael Horlacher, president of the
Bavarian legislature, and other Ba-
varian politicians.

The “Frankenpost" commented:

“Not one stupid word was said,
asked, or answered during the two
days; that was the deepest impression
one got from the Upper Franconian
youth forum. One saw and heard a
wide-awake youth full of eager inter-
est in all civic issues, This is very
encouraging, though, of course, it was
a selected group of young people .

“If the population could look into
the windows of the government more
frequently . . . respect for it would
grow and many an unfounded criti-
cism would remain unspoken. Govern-
ment and people understand each
other better directly than through the
channel of the political parties.”

Domestic Developments

Walter Tschuppik, editor-in-chief of
the Die Abendzeitung (Munich)
warned that “certain domestic devel-
opments in Germany have more far-
reaching effects abroad than the Ger-
man public realizes” and quoted a
London Times article saying that
“West Germany is less different
from the Germany of 1940 than
anybody might have expected four
years ago”:

“One of the conclusions which the
Times drew from this is that dis-
mantling must continue, Lacking pos-
itive evidence of a peaceful demo-
cratic Germany, the Times says, it
will be wise to insist upon security
measures. This is a clear warning
addressed to Pied Pipers and their
followers. Nothing can be gained by
political adventures, but everything
that has been salvaged from ruin can
be lost.”

War Crimes Film

The Stuttgarter Zeitung described
the film “Nuremberg” which deals
with the war crimes trials, and com-
mented on audience reaction:

“One sees and hears the Nazi
greats and one shudders -with re-
pulsion at, the crimes and atrocities,
for which all deny responsibility . ..
The film is an eloquent piece of
history in concentrated form, by
which the most obstinate must be
impressed. Unfortunately, it all comes
a little late.”

JANUARY 11, 1949

\

--- Page 28 ---
(Continued from page 2)
Outlook Is Bright for 1949

While this is not an easy task, even
with agreement on principle we are
making progress. Within the last few
days, the details of Ruhr control have
been worked out in London and
submitted to the governments for
approval.

The Military Governors have reach-
ed substantial agreement on the duties
of a Military Security Board. They
have submitted their views on an
occupation statute to their govern-
ments. While these views are not
fully reconciled, the divergences are
few in number and may be expected
to be reconciled between governments
without material delay. The German
parliamentary council is working at
Bonn to produce the basic law or
constitution for the western German
government. With the occupation
statute approved, we should face no
major difficulty in obtaining tri-partite
approval of the constitution. We are
also progressing in developing the tri-
partite organization for Military Gov-
ernment which must be effective when
the western German government is
established. I do not want to minimize
the difficulties still ahead in reconcil-
ing the views of the three govern-
ments. I am sure that we are making
Progress and that with some “give
and take” by all of us, we can develop
a solution.

If there is any danger of war, should
a German police force be armed in
the west and if so, with what kind of
arms?

General Clays Our policy does not
contemplate a large, centrally-con-
trolled, and heavily armed police
force. We are opposed to the creation
of a police force which could become
a military training school. We believe
in police powers remaining in the
Several states with the size of the
Police force limited to local needs.
We believe it should be armed only
with light caliber revolvers and
carbines, We also believe that central
Police powers should be strictly
limited; perhaps to customs guards,
@ central criminal identification office;
and a very small federal police force
for the capital city.

JANUARY 11, 1949

How is the morale of the United
States Army in Germany? How can
you keep it from deteriorating?

General Clay: I am proud of the
United States Forces in my command—
soldiers, airmen, sailors. Their standard
of appearance, conduct, and discipline
is the best I have seen in more than
30 years of service. Their morale will
not deteriorate. They know that they
have an important mission, that they
represent their country abroad, and
they are proud to accept these
responsibilities. Tactical troops are in
constant training, spending approxi-
mately six months of the year in the
field. I think our people at home can
be proud of them.

Perhaps some statistics can tell the
story. Our incident rate, which in-
cludes minor offenses which would
only be so listed in an Army, as well
as major offenses, has dropped to
0.76 per thousand from 1.23 per
thousand a year ago. Our court-
martial cases are at an all-time low.
Our re-enlistment rate is at an all-
time high and in the ist division,
over 37 percent of those with enlist-
ments expiring by 30 June of next
year (1949) have already reenlisted
or extended their service. Moreover,
those young men representing us in
Germany have this Christmas held
Christmas parties for 1,534,000 German
children.

Our men are working hard at their
duties, during the day. They have all
types of athletic facilities, club rooms,
libraries, pool and bowling facilities,
and educational opportunities at their
disposal. They also can take trips to
delightful rest areas at relatively low
costs. Don't worry about their morale
now or later. They are soldiers, air-
men, and sailors in all that these
words imply and I simply must repeat
here I am proud to command them.

Is Germany recovering perceptibly?

General Clay: German recovery
since currency reform and with the
psychological uplift of the European
Recovery Program has been amazing.
Since June, its productive output has
increased from 50 percent of 1936 to
75 percent, which is actually an in-
crease of 50 percent. Exports which
a year ago totalled a little over
$200,000,000 for the 12-month period

25

are now exeeding a $700,000,000 an-
nual rate. Consumer goods are avail-
able in the shops. New building is
evident everywhere. The people are
back at work and hope for the future
is discernible in their new attitude to
life. However, I do want to point out
that there is still a long road
ahead to self-sufficiency. The German
recovery still lags far behind general
western European recovery and is still
a drag on recovery. Moreover, the
deficit between imports essential to
life and exports being borne by the
United States during the present fiscal
year excedes $1,000,000,000. While this
deficit will be substantially less during
the next fiscal year, there will remain
a large deficit for several years. If
the burden on the American taxpayer
is to be lifted; if Germany is to
regain self-sufficiency, it must push
forward with full vigor to increase its
productive output.

Are we succeeding in our original
efforts to democratize and demilitarize
the German nation?

General Clay: This is a difficult
question to answer and I think large-
ly because it is too early to know
the answer. Physically, Germany has
been completely demilitarized. It has
also experienced the full horror of
defeat in total war. This has certainly
dimmed the military flame in German
hearts. However, only time can tell
whether or not the military spirit
which dominated Germany for so
many years is dead. It is for this
reason that a Military Security Board
is required to detect and to recom-
mend preventive measures if this
spirit does return.

In democratization, we have in-
stalled the democratic processes and
the guaranties of personal liberties
which make democracy have meaning
to the individual. The German is
witnessing first-hand the oppressive
measures of totalitarianism in com-
parison with the measures of the
occupying forces representing the
western democracies. However, the
German is still subject to alien mil-
itary rule which, at best, cannot be
a good example of democratic gov-
ernment. He, as yet, has no govern-
ment of his own above the state level
and no national forum. Under these

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
conditions strong democratic leader-
ship is difficult to develop. Moreover,
the people cannot feel their power to
control and influence government.

I do believe we have made progress,
particularly in the field of local gov-
emment. There are many sincere
Germans working in this field. I have
hope for the future but I know that
only time will tell the final answer.

What are the prospects ‘for the
coming year in Germany?

General Clay: They are bright in
western Germany for progress both
politically and economically. Increas-
ing ERP aid will stimulate production,
the establishment of western German
government will generate healthy po-
litical activity. However, there are
limiting factors, such as the shortage
of electric power which will curtail
major production increases. There will
still remain a large deficit to be borne
by the United States if recovery is
to continue. Nevertheless, the year
ahead should bring to the Germans a
greatly improved standard of living in
comparison with the past three years
since their surrender.

How do you feel about the ac-
complishment of the past year?

General Clay: It has been a year of
substantial progress, particularly in
the economic field. Politically, it was
marked by the decision to go ahead
with western German government to
permit at least as large a portion of
Germany as possible to have a large
measure of self-responsibility. I think
the German press, radio, and educa-
tion have made more progress to be-
coming truly free institutions than we
now realize. + END

Sale of Perishable Merchandise

The firm of Wibrus AG Concession-
aine has been granted a license per-
mitting the sale within the German
economy of perishable merchandise
which hid been imported for the US
Army Exchange Service and which
the latter organization had not accep-
ted. The Wibrus firm was authorized
to sell such products within the US
Zone of occupation at the established
German legal prices and to employ
the procelids for the payment ‘in
Deutsche marks of its legitimate
expenses within the country.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MG Urges Better News Evaluation

Col. Gordon E. Textor, director of
the Information Services Division,
OMGUS, in a message delivered to
US Zone publishers comprising the
cooperative news agency, DENA,
claimed that United States and Mili-
tary Government news is not receiving
equal treatment with news from other
sources.

The ISD director said that although
the desire for objectivity outweighs
any desire that MG news be given
favored treatment, “I do suggest that
in the editorial evaluation of news
the mere fact of the occupation in
this specific zone not be counted as
a factor which will give the occupier
less cénsideration than is given to
others.”

Curt Frenzel, chairman of the DENA
board, told publishers at their two-
day annual meeting that never before

in Germany has such a freedom of
news existed as is exemplified by
DENA.

“We want to give our readers
accurate information on all measures
of the four occupation powers,” he
said. “In the handling of this news
it is not up to us decide whether a
particular news item does not suit
us or an occupation power.

“In sticking to this objective line,”
Frenzel continued, ‘we will substan-
tially contribute to narrowing the
cold war and to bringing conditions
back to normal.”

It is DENA’s duty, Frenzel empha-
sized, to remain objective in the ideo-
logical conflict between East and West
and it is “jumping to conclusions if
the use of factual news stories is
interpreted as anti-American senti-
ment.“— ISD News of Germany.

(Continued from page 22)
Basis for Press Laws

activities of newspaper reporters
seeking news in the public interest.
A reporter must be free, without fear
of reprisals, to gather and print news
unfavorable even to government of-
ficials—as long as the news is ob-
jectively and truthfully presented.

4%, A press law must guarantee that
there be no arbitrary interference by
the police or other administrative
bodies in. the free flow and dis-
semination of news and printed matter.

5. A press law must specifially ex-
clude the revival of honor courts,
press chambers or other forms of
organized press control exercised by
the Nazi regime.

6. A press law must prohibit censor-
ship or control of the content of
news except through legal process in
the event of a violation of existing
laws regarding libel, defamation,
fraud, indecency or breach of the
peace,

Underlying all of these points is the
strong belief that no new set of
restrictive government controls over
the press should be established at any
lime after Military Government gives
up its temporary controls.

Some people have already expressed
fears that when Military Government

26

gives up its controls, extreme re-
actionary elements will be able to
publish newspapers and propagate
again the doctrines of hate developed
by the Nazis.

It is true that this danger will exist
in Germany as it exists to a certain
extent in any free society. This danger
can be met only by, first, the
strength and vitality of the in-
dependent press, and second, by the
good judgment of the German people.
In the long run, a strong, independent
press can exist in Germany only if
the people—the newspaper readers—
prefer and support such a press. -+ END

Regulations Relaxed

German publishers of books and
magazines in the US Zone will be re-
quired to use only the regular com-
mercial imprint in their future publi-
cations, the Publications Branch of the
Information Services Division, OM-
GUS, announced.

MG regulations previously required
publication of license information,
author, biographical data and exact
edition size in every book and per-
iodical. Henceforth only the custom-
ary imprint containing the publish-
er's name, location and year of
publication will be required.

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 30 ---
PRESS and

The Berlin municipal elections held
in December have evoked widespread
editorial comment in’ US newspapers.
The editorials generally agreed that
the vote was a resounding repudia-
tion of communism and that it topped
a record of rejection wherever men
have been free to express their real
preferences.

While acclaiming the Berliners in
the western sectors who defied Soviet
threats and obstructive tactics, the
editorials saw in the election further
evidence of the split between the
Western Powers and the USSR. Al-
most without exception, editorials
interpreted the election results as in-
creasing the obligation of the three
Western Powers to stand firm in Ber-
lin, whatever the cost.

The New York Herald Tribune said
in part:

“The result was one of the historic
elections of our time. It was historic
because, out of the innumerable
elections, plebiscites and demonstrat-
ions of recent years, it was almost
the first in which the issue between
communism and western democracy
was fairly and fully joined in men’s
minds,

“There were neither police nor
‘action committees’ to control the out-
come. There was no question here of
voting for ‘just a little bit of com-
munism’ in order to correct the worser
Social failings of capitalistic de-
mocracy. Each side in Berlin knew (as
other constituencies have not always
known) that the vote was for keeps.

“Soviet communism used all the
means that are available and natural
to it—propaganda, threats, starvation,
the curiously ruthless device of open-
ing the east sector factories on Sun-
day—in order to make it impossible
for their west sector workers to vote.
The teply was interesting; it was a
four-hour transport strike. We are
very familar with ‘Communist-in-
Spired strikes aimed at the destruct-
ion of capitalist order. This was a
direct use of the strike weapon by

JANUARY 11, 1949

the workers to repel the ugly dictator-
ship of Soviet totalitarianism.

“Its implications will not quickly be
forgotten...

“The Berliners knew what was at
stake; they knew what freedom and
the franchise meant, and from out of
their ruins they have returned an
answer which, because of its very
sources, is perhaps the greatest moral
defeat that the Soviet Union has ever
suffered.”

The Washington Star: ‘The election
was essentially a protest by the Ber-
liners themselves against the arbitrary
and illegal action of the Communists
in setting up a city government in
defiance of the municipal constitution
which prescribed the holding of elect-
ions for the renewal of the regular
city administration...

“Unfortunately, while democracy
has won a victory, it has by no means
won the war. Indeed, the immediate
result of this election and its fake
Communist predecessor will presum-
ably be to sharpen tension between
the East and West over Berlin. This
is implicit in the memorandum sent
by the Western Powers to the ‘neu-
tral’ committee of the United Nations
which has been trying vainly to find
some basis for East-West negotiation
over the Berlin issue.

“The memorandum points out that
the Communist regime set up in the
Russian Sector is the latest of no less
than 51 Russian actions since last
June, all contrary to agreements
between the occupying powers. And
it warns that those actions render a
genuine settlement of the Berlin
problem virtually impossible unless
Moscow alters its illegal and arbi-
trary policy.”

The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: ‘The
municipal elections were conducted
only in the three western sectors of
the city. Sensing a crushing defeat,
the Communists had, in their finest
tradition, set up an illegal govern-
ment of their own in the Russian-
controlled eastern sectors of Berlin

27

Sunday's electio 2
“This was at once an a
Communist weakness and further
evidence that Russia will be satisfied
with nothing less than complete dom-
ination of Berlin and, ultimately, of
all Germany. The Russians were fully
aware that, had they been given the
opportunity, the residents of their
sector would also have rejected com-
munism. They dared not put their
system to the test in a secret ballot.”

The Cleveland Plain Dealer: The
result indicates the average German's
dislike for the political piffle peddled
by Moscow. It is also a key to the
actual size of Communist votes in
those countries under Soviet military
occupation but where the results are
always announced in an overwhelm-
ing figure for the Kremlin's stooges.”

The Detroit Free Press: ‘Sunday's
election in Berlin gave ‘Uncle Joe’
(Stalin) something new to put in his
pipe and smoke... The Communist
task not only in Germany but in
France and Italy and elsewhere in
western Europe has been made more
difficult. The demonstrated ability of
the Soviets to make themselves un-
popular raises a question, which
reaches even to China, as to how
long, if they take over other countries,
they can retain control of them.

“They have never learned the first
lesson on how to make friends and
influence people. They have brought
upon themselves only hate and ri-
dicule wherever they have stepped
beyond their Russian borders.”

The St. Louis Post Dispatch: ‘There
were no Communist votes because the
Soviet boycotted the election and re-
fused to enter candidates.

“This tactic of obstruction, how-
ever, did not save the Communists
from the clearest kind of repudiation
at the polls... Had every non-voter
marked his ballot for Communist en-
tries, the Communist total would have
been even below the 16 percent of the
Liberal Democrats.” + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
(Continued from page 12)
Bizonal Communications

French Zone domestic postal services
were brought in line with those
offered by the other two western
zones.
Gift parcel post service was first
initiated in the US Zone in June 1946
_ in response to. popular demand on the
part of Americans for a direct means
of sending relief supplies to friends
and relatives in Germany. Limited
originally to packages from the
United States, the international gift
parcel service had been extended by
Jan, 15, 1947 to all four occupation
zones, with incoming packages of
food, clothing and medical supplies
accepted from all countries with
which Germany maintained postal
relations.

ETWEEN June 1, 1946 and Sept. 30,

1948 more than 190,000 tons of
gift parcels with an approximate
value of $270,000,000 had been deliv-
ered in Germany. Sixty-six percent
of all packages sent were to recipients
in the Bizone and US and British
Sectors of Berlin, and about 80 per-
cent of the total bill had been paid
for by US citizens,

November 1947 was the peak month
for gift parcels, with subsequent gift
parcel receipts showing a steady
decline, presumably because of rising
living costs in the United States
coupled with the gradual betterment
of German economic conditions,

The economic significance of this
tremendous volume of voluntary
overseas relief was recognized by the
Economic Cooperation Administration,
which incorporated in the ERP program
for Germany special provisions to
encourage this type of aid. Because
postage fees accounted for almost
25 percent of the total cost of sending
a’ relief parcel, transportation and
delivery fees within western Germany
are now paid for jointly by the zone
or sector of delivery and ECA, re-
ducing the US postage price to
10 cents a pound. :

In order to expedite gift shipments,
air express gift parcel service from
the United States to the US Zone was
inaugurated in January 1948. A second
air service for gift parcels from the
United States to Germany went into

INFORMATION BULLETIN

effect May 1, whereby packages for
delivery in the three western zones
were flown to Frankfurt; those ad-
dressed to Berlin and the Soviet Zone
flown directly to Berlin.

less known fact about the

Deutsche Post is that communi-
cations is the only German operation
today which functions at little or no
expense to the occupation authorities
or the German taxpayers. Not only is
the Deutsche Post a solvent concern,
but it even provides an important
source of revenue for the German
states and has for many months been
a steady source of dollar earnings for
the German economy.

Americans stationed in Germany,
for instance, spend over $300,000 a
month on their personal telephone
calls and cables, all of which are
handled by the German network.

During the first six months of 1948,
Deutsche Post revenue mounted
steadily until it was running at a
yearly rate of over RM 2,000,000,000,
a figure well above the total Reichs-
post income for all of Germany in
1937. Last year it contributed more
than RM 200,000,000 in state taxes to
the budgets of the Bizonal states,
RM 50,000,000 more than the tax paid
by the Reichspost for all Germany in
1937.

Four million new depositors opened
postal savings accounts in 1947 and
the post check service maintained in
the Bizone that same year was larger
than it ever had been in all of pre-
war Germany.

The Deutsche Post will contribute
approximately DM 200,000,000 to the
bizonal budget during 1949. Additional
money will be raised through special
stamp issues.

The swollen pre-currency reform
revenues of the Deutsche Post had
proved largely useless since it was
impossible under the conditions then
existing to replace badly-needed
capital equipment. The Deutsche Post
was furnishing as high as 150 percent
of prewar service with only 70 per-
cent of prewar facilities.

The US Army originally helped out
by contributing a large quantity of
supplies and equipment from surplus
army stocks. Thousands of improvised
mailbags were manufactured from

28

surplus army tentage to permit
handling the mail. January 1948 saw
the first allocation of bizonal lumber
to the German postal administration
and during February JEIA approved
the establisment of a $25,000 fund to
cover the purchase of vital auto-
motive parts from neighboring
countries.

Ww the appearance of essential
materials on the open market
since currency reform, and the in-
creased availability of labor, sub-
stantial progress on construction pro-
jects was made possible for the first
time.

While no ERP imports have been
specifically earmarked for postal use,
the Deutsche Post has indirectly bene-
fited from the receipt of ERP raw
materials in the Bizone, since the pur-
chase of new vehicles, tires, tubes and
spare parts is now possible.

The German communication net-
work, by virtue of its strategic posi-
tion in Europe, is a vital factor in the
further development of intra-European
trade under the Marshall Plan. By
Oct, 1, 1948 more than 16,875 miles of
telephone circuits connecting various
European cities passed through Ger-
many. Nineteen cities in Europe are
connected by telephone circuits tran-
siting Germany; 11 cities by inter-
national telegraph circuits. Germany
has direct circuits to 15 cities in
Europe and is the terminal point for 63
international telegraph circuits. --END

Under German Law

Poppy capsules, from which mor-
phine can be extracted by special
process, will be placed under German
opium law by state ordinances, ac-
cording to a resolution of the Nar-
cotics Subcommittee of the US Zone.

Dealers in dried poppy capsules
will be required to have special
licenses to cultivate the plant for
seed, and collecting agencies will be
allowed to deliver the capsules
only to firms in possession of a
license for the manufacture of mor-
phine.

The German opium law applies to
opium and opium derivatives, where-
as the crude opium stage is by-passed
in the processing of poppy capsules
for direct extraction of morphine.

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 32 ---
{Continued from page 4)
Operation Better Kids

directed by an international committee
of educational authorities who would
study the relative merits of the long
and short type of Gymnasium pro-
gram. The German point of view on
this issue has been based largely upon
tradition and personal opinion and
judgment,

The proposed research project
would furnish a basis of facts upon
which to determine relative merits of
the two plans, It may be presumed
that if the research study is estab-
lished, during the experimental years
both types of Gymnasium program
would be conducted. This idea of a
research study is impressive to the
Germans in meeting their objections.

S WOULD BE EXPECTED, the
type of community in which a
public forum is held determines the
emphasis given to the different phases
of school reform problems. In sections
predominately rural in character,
vigorous objection is usually raised
to the proposal for extending compul-
sory full-time school attendance from
eight to nine years because farmers
feel that this extension will cheat
them out of needed labor by their
children. This is the third of the major
issues previously distinguished and for
this issue the supporting arguments
can be reviewed as follows:

1,.Recent experimental research in
Bavaria has further confirmed the fact
that through special training in
scientific agriculture, production by
pupils working on their own lands
can be increased as much as 25 or
30 percent. Therefore, by introducing
the subject matter of scientific agri-
culture in the ninth grade of the ex-
tended school program, especially in
the schools serving rural areas there
is an immediate economic advantage,
contrary to the belief of farmers that
by losing the labor of their children
there will be an economic loss.

2. It is characteristic of farmers at
the outset to voice their objection to
an extension of compulsory education
and such has been the case in all
Countries of the world, But with the
advantages of this extension realized,
farmers endorse the program and

JANUARY 11, 1949

would not change back to the old
system,

3. Heretofore, farmers have given
two years or more of their children’s
time to the state for military service
with but little complaint. Is it, we say,
too much to ask that they give part
of their children’s time for one year
for their own enrichment and advan-
cement through education? Actually,
schooling during the ninth year will
leave much time for the children to
do chores at home before and after
school hours and during vacation
periods.

The foregoing argument, incident-
ally, was first advanced by a German
participant in one of the forum meet-
ings and repeatedly it has received
the hearty endorsement of the various
audiences when used.

4, The extension of compulsory educ-
ation for the ninth school year like
other aspects of school reform involves
a long-time program and will be
attained gradually with ample time
in which to make necessary adjust-
ments.

With the recent announcement in
Bavaria of the compromise agreement
on the subject of free tuition and free
textbooks, questions pertaining to
those points have been materially
reduced. However, occasionally some-
one will still state they see no reason
why the children of wealthy parents
should have free tuition and free text-
books. Answers to such a challenge
can be quite convincing to the people.

These explain that the only way
to insure equal educational oppor-
tunities will be to break down abso-
lutely all barriers. Since there are
1,500,000 children in Bavaria, it is
impossible to avoid mistakes in
determining those who should not
pay under the plan of charging fees
according to the ability of the parents.
Every time a mistake is made, the
life of a child is adversely affected
and his usefulnes to the state is
impaired. These mistakes cannot be
afforded especially when there is
one other and better way to distri-
bute the load according to the
ability of parents.

Military Government, too, agrees
that the wealthier parents should pay
the heavier load and recommends the
method of taxation as the means of

29

seeing to it that such parents do pay
the larger share. In other words,
Military Government recommends the
principle of taxation, not tuition, as
the most equitable means of taking
the money wherever it is and spen-
ding it wherever the children are,

N THIS CONNECTION, the people

should be reminded that to charge
tuition on the basis of the economic
status of parents produces among
little children feelings of inferiority
and superiority, so sensitive are they
to such remarks as “Your father
can't pay, but my father can."

The proposal to improve the train-
ing of teachers and to equalize sala-
ries on the basis of training and
experience has thus far provoked no
expression of criticism. It does not
seem difficult for Bavarians to recog-
nize the fairness of this phase of
school reform.

In almost every audience there have
been one or more German leaders
who have insisted that school reform
is not a program of Military Govern-
ment. They have boasted that these
plans have been advocated by
German leaders for 25, 50, 75, and,
one man said, 100 years. This is true.

It is important that the Germans
realize that schoo] reform is not a
project for Americanizing the German
system. They should know that their
own progressive leaders are saying
that Military Government is only
giving them a chance to overcome
the ultra-conservatism of the past
and to do for their children what has
long been desired by Germans for
Germans.

They should understand that school
reform is now underway in most of
the countries of the world and that
it involves universally-held principles
for improving the general welfare of
nations and for promoting world
peace through education. +END

YMCA Group to Meet

The executive committee of the
Young Men's Christian Association
(YMCA) will hold its first regular
annual meeting in Germany since the
war, next July at Mainau Castle, on
Lake Constance, property of the late
Count Bernadotte and now an.inter-
national institute for youth education.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Why does Military Government
insist that police functions be ad-
ministered by state police rather than
local police?

As a matter of fact, Military Gov-
ernment does not insist that police
functions be administered by state
police rather than local police. Quite
the contrary is provided by Military
Government regulations concerning
the police.

One of the major emphases of Mili-
tary Government policy is upon the
decentralization of the police. To
achieve decentralization it is provided
that appropriate German government-
al authorities will be required to estab-
lish and maintain police forces in
towns of 5,000 population or more.
Towns of less than 5,000 population
may, if it is so elected, also maintain
a police force. These community
police forces are completely under the
administrative responsibility, control,
and supervision of the community
officials, i. e. the mayor and _ the
appointed police chief.

The state police are responsible for
safety and order in rural areas and
in towns of less than 5,000 population
which have not established police
forces of their own. The state police
organization is under the administra-
tive control of the state government,
specifically under the ministry of the
interior. The state police do not have
any jurisdiction within the area of
a community which has established
its own police, unless specifically
requested by the governing officials in
that community to furnish assistance.

Another aspect of MG policy which
might be emphasized is the decon-
centration of police power, partic-
ularly in connection with functions
formerly carried on by the Adminis-
trative Police (Verwaltungspolizei).
These functions relate to housing,
building, forest, economics, railroads
and many other aspects of govern-
ment. Under MG policy this type of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

UESTIONS

and. ANSWERS

administrative function has been
separated from the executive police
and assigned to appropriate branches
of the civil government. The use of
the word “polizei” in connection with
such activities is forbidden.

The police are restricted to the
function of maintaining safety and
order and the detection and preven-
tion of crime. _(OMGWB/Handbook)

* * *

Why are displaced persons permitted
to emigrate and Germans and ex-
pellees not?

Some expellees are eligible for
migration. Most expellees, however,
are essentially a part of the German
population by law and legally are in
their homeland. DP’s are unsettled
and should be disposed of before
others. (OMGWB)

* * *

The Scandinavian countries have
been anxious to sell fish to the Bizone.
These countries are a_ traditional
source of fish for Germany. Could not
something be done to restore this
trade for the mutual benefit of Ger-
many and Scandinavia?

Under recent trade agreements con-
cluded by the Joint Export—Import
Agency with the governments con-
cerned, the Bizone is due to receive
$4,000,000 worth of fish from Denmark,
$16,000,000 from Norway and $3,000,000
from Holland. It is recognized that
these countries can and wish to sell
their surplus fish to the Bizonal Area
and JEIA is doing everything possible,
in coordination with the Joint Food
Procurement Board, to increase pro-
curement within the limits of
availability of funds for this purpose.
(JEIA)

* * *

Is Military Government taking any
steps to unfreeze money from hidden
sources to get it into the banks to be
lent to refugees?

The Bavarian government has prom-
ised a $10,000,000 guarantee for re-
fugee credit. However, this is merely
a guarantes of credit. The refugee
must first find a bank which will lend

30

him the money. Because the banks
lend money which belongs to depos-
itors, they must be careful that the
borrower is a good risk. There are
a lot of refugee industries which are
marginal and the banks will not give
them loans because the goods have
no future. However, in the final ana-
lysis, lending money is the function
of the bank and they must be able to
lend as they wish. (Fin Adv, OMGB)
ay * *

Why are the little Nazis heavily
penalized and the big Nazis allowed
to go scot-free?

This question is a misleading one.
It is a phrase commonly used by most
Germans when an individual in their
community is found in a group lower
than they would personally want him
found. If the above question were
entirely true the blame would rest
on the German people themselves,
because they fail to testify against
respondents at trials or public
hearings, but they wait until after the
decision to voice opposition.

The statement is not entirely true
because many Nazi leaders have met
their death and hundreds of others
are facing long periods of internment
for their Nazi activities, It is also to
be remembered that since 1945 thou-
sands of Nazis and members of
criminal organizations have been
interned, or removed and excluded
from positions of influence, thereby
receiving a degree of punishment
which was not experienced by the so-
called “little Nazis." (OMGWB). (See
Information Bulletin articles ‘Denazi-
fication Nears Completion," Issue
No. 146, Oct. 19, 1948, and “Are There
‘Good’ Nazis?" Issue No. 37, April 15,
1946.)

* * *

Does an American under 16 have
to have a hunting license or can
he hunt without .a license in the
presence of someone who has a
license?

In the presence of a license holder
a person under 16 can hunt without a
license of his own. (OMGB)

JANUARY 11, 1949

--- Page 34 ---
Delivered ECA Goods
Total $68,000,000

Foodstuffs and agricultural supplies
purchased by the Economic Cooper-
ation Administration and delivered in
the Bizone during the first three-
quarters of the 1948 bizonal recovery
program had a total value of
$68,000,000, the Bipartite Food, Agri-
culture and Forestry Group announced
last Dec. 16. This was an increase of
$20,000,000 over the amounts reported
for Nov. 15.

Of the $106,500,000 worth of food
items requested for the Bizone under
the ERP program, ECA has authorized
the procurement of food and agricul-
tural commodities totaling $99,600,000.
Contracts have already been signed
or firm commitments concluded on
$99,200,000 worth of food and agricul-
tural items approved by ECA for
bizonal purchase,

Desecration of Churches

Bavarian state police, investigating
reported desecration of Christian
churches and cemeteries, found that
children had pushed over tombstones
and had painted swastikas on a church
wall. From the nature of the cases, it
appeared that the thefts of many items
from the churches do not represent a
wave of anti-Christian sentiment, but
rather the robbery of articles which
apparently have black market value.

Excerpts Taken from Official

Denazification Proceedings

Whereas in the past there has been some
confusion concerning the proper jurisdiction
and venue of denazification proceedings
between the French and US Zones of Occu-
Pation, the finality and effect of findings and
decisions already rendered, and the transfer
of various persons wanted for charges in one
zone or the other, it is agreed that hereafter
such matters will be handled by German
authorities upon their own responsibility in

accordance with Control Council Directive
No 38 and the following principles.

1, Jurisdiction and Venue.

The jurisdiction of Tribunals established

under laws or regulations promulgated in
implementation of Control Council Directive
No 38 and the venue of proceedings before
Such Tribunals shall be determinded by:

a. The domicile or residence of the
Tespondent;

2. The place where the respondent has been
active during the Nazi regime;

©. The place where the respondent is
detained in interment pending trial; or

JANUARY 11, 1949

Largest Tobacco Shipment Arrives

The largest tobacco shipment ever
made to postwar Germany—5,300,000
pounds—arrived in Bremen in mid-
December aboard the American freight-
er Flying Independent.

Representatives of Bremen guilds,
unions, trade associations and key
figures in the German tobacco trade
took part in a dockside ceremony at
which the following officiated: Nor-
man H. Collisson, chief, ERP mission
to Western Germany; Bremen Senator
Gustav Wilhelm Harmssen; Osborne
M. Taylor, chief, Resources Division
and economic adviser to the director,

d. The place where property of the
respondent is located.
2. Validity of Final Decisions in other

Laender of Either Zone.

a. If a final decision has already been made
by a Tribunal having jurisdiction in accordance
with paragraph one, such decision shall be
accorded full faith and credit in other Laender
of either Zone, and the respondent shall be
entitled to plead such final decision as a
complete defense and bar to a subsequent
proceeding brought elsewhere under laws or
regulations in implementation of Control
Council Directive No 38. In the event that
two or more decisions have been rendered
involving the same respondent by Tribunals
having jurisdiction in accordance with para-
graph one, the earliest decision shall be
considered valid unless set aside in accordance
with subparagraph b below, and later decisions
shall be considered invalid.

b. If the authorities of other Laender in
either Zone posses material evidence which
was not available to or used by the Tribunal
in the place where the final decision was

31

Unloading the tobacco from Flying Independent at Bremen.
(US Army photograph)

OMG Bremen; and Bertrand Clark,
chief, Bremen office, JEIA,

The tobacco was purchased by JEIA
in the United States with funds made
available by ECA and the US De-
partment of Agriculture. In all, about
50,000,000 pounds have been obtained
at a cost of $18,000,000.

Boycott Hurts Soviet Paper
As a result of the Berlin news
vendors’ boycott, the official Soviet
German-language newspaper, Die
Taegliche Rundschau (The Daily Re-
view), lost heavily in circulation.

Instructions

rendered, such evidence may be forwarded
for the purpose of reopening or setting aside
such decision, but the respondent shall not
otherwise be subjected to another proceeding
if the original Tribunal had jurisdiction in
accordance with paragraph one.

c. The Laender of either Zone shall
mutually enforce sanctions imposed as a result
of final decisions by Tribunals of other
Laender insofar as such _ sanctions are
authorized under their own laws and regul-
ations.

3. Transfer of Venue in Cases Involving
Major Offenders or Offenders.

a. It is recognized that venue of proceedings
should be set at the place where evidence is
most easily available and the respondent is
best known, and that conflicts between
Tribunals having concurrent jurisdiction and
venue should be avoided to the extent
possible. Accordingly, where the authorities
of one jurisdiction are in possession of
evidence warranting a finding of Major
Offender or Offender, the authorities of the
jurisdiction in which a respondent is located

(Continwed on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
will transfer venue of the case upon request
unless a final decision has already been
rendered or equally serious charges are
pending or contemplated in the jurisdiction in
which the respondent is located.

b. If a final decision has been rendered,

the authorities of another jurisdiction may
forward the evidence in their possession and
request the Tribunal which rendered the final
decision to consider reopening and setting
aside its decision, If after considering such
evidence, the Tribunal sets aside its decision,
transfer of venue may be made in accordance
with the provisions of the preceding sub-
paragraph. Thereafter, the authorities of both
jurisdictions shall make all evidence available
for presentation at the subsequent proceeding
wherever the venue may be set,

c. The setting of venue in a jurisdiction
other than that in which the respondent is
located shall not involve the compulsory
transfer of his person in custody unless an
interlocutory order or warrant for his arrest
has been issued. .

4, Delegation of Responsibility to German
Denazification Authorities.

a. Each Zone Commander shall delegate com-
plete authority and responsibility to German

denazification officials of the respective
Laender to implement and carry out this
agreement. Military Government will not

interfere in any respect save in exceptional
cases where overriding security considerations
are involved which might be jeopardized by
the compulsory transfer of a respondent in
custody from one jurisdiction to another.

b. Negotiations between German denazific-
ation officials of the respective. Laender shall
be directed through their own channels and
the use of Military Government channels for
the interchange of information and evidence,
the transferring of venue in particular cases,
or the securing of certified copies of decisions,
will not be required. — Attached to OMGUS
letter AG 383 (CA), Dec, 15,

Filing of Tax Returns

1, All taxable American personnel (military
and civilian) in this command are required
by law to file final income tax returns for the
year 1948 and to pay the amount due thereon
before 15 March 1949. (This means final return
and payment must be in the hands of the
collector for the district concerned by that
date.) However, individuals who were required
to file declarations of estimated tax for 1948
may file their final returns with the payment
of the final installment on the 1948 estimated
tax which is due on or before 15 January 1949,
If a taxapayer files his annual return for 1948
on or before 15 January 1949, and pays in full
the tax shown to be due, such return will
serve in lieu of an amendment to a decilar-
ation previously filed

2, Taxation of income other than specified
in subparagraphs a and b, below, will be
accomplished by the payroll deduction tax

plan, Declarations of estimated tax for the
year 1949 and the payment of the first quar-
terly installment thereof are required to be in
the hands of the collector for the district con-
cerned by 15 March 1949. Such declarations
and quarterly payments will be required from
those individuals (military and civilian) whose:

a, Gross income can reasoably be expected
to exceed the sum of $4,500 plus each exemp-
tion including the taxpayer's, or

b. whose gross income from sources other
than wages can reasonably be expected to
exceed $100 for the taxable year and whose
gross income is expected to be $600 or more.

3. It should be borne in mind that the pay
(base pay, longevity pay, flight pay, overseas
pay, etc) of enlisted personnel and of com-
missioned officers is taxable for the year 1949,
However, in view of the fact that the payroll
deduction tax plan will be applied to the pay
of military personnel, it is believed that only
a small percentage will be required to file
declarations of estimated tax for the year 1949,

4. Assistance in the preparation of income
tax returns is a function of legal assistance
under the supervision of the staff judge ad-
vocate. It will be the responsibility of major
commanders to provide assistance within their
means to personnel in the preparation of their
income tax returns and to insure that proper
publicity is given to the plan set up in each
command for the rendering of such assistance,
The services of tax consultants from the
office of the Commissioner of Internal Rev-
enue have been requested for a period of
75 days for the purpose of instructing selected
personnel who will assist in the preparation
of income tax returns and advise personnel
in the command. It is not known whether such
request will be favorably considered, Upon
receipt of advice from the Department of the
Amy on this matter, further information will
be published.

5, Upon receipt of 1948 and 1949 tax forms
NYPE, initial distribution of income tax forms
will be made from the EUCOM Publications
Depot, APO 757, to staff judge advocates
throughout the command, Requests for addi-
tional forms should be made by requisition
upon the EUCOM Publications Depot, APO 757.

6. It is desired that major commanders bring
this matter to the attention of all affected
personnel. — EUCOM letter AG 012.2 GPA,
Dec. 6.

New MGR Section

Effective this date (Dec. 16, 1948) Part 6,
Section A of MGR Title 5 “Legal and Penal
Administration’’ is amended by the addition
of a new Section, MGR 5-603 entitled ‘'Com-
mitment of US Civilian Sentenced by MG
Courts" and reading as follows:

5/603/—/ Commitment of US and Allied Occu-
pation Personnel Sentenced by MG Courts.

The provisions of this section apply to the
sentence and confinement of US and Allied

Occupation Personnel as defined in par 5d,
SOP 96, Headquarters, European Command,
16 March 1948,

5-603.1/—/ Places of Commitment.

a. Females sentenced to terms of confine-
ment not exceeding 1 year, whose sentences
have not been suspended and who have not
been released on bail, shall be confined as pre-
scribed by Headquarters, European Command,
pending disposition of the case by the review-
ing or appellate authority; thereafter, with
respect to any unserved or unremitted portion
of the sentence they shall be confined as
follows:

(1) US Nationals—In the New York City
House of Detention for Women or elsewhere
as the Secretary of the Army shall direct.

(2) Non-US Nationals—In such place as may
be directed by Headquarters, European Com-
mand,

b. Females sentenced to terms of confinement
exceeding 1 year, whose sentences have not
been suspended and who have not been re-
leased on bail, shall be confined as prescribed
by Headquarters, European Command, pending
disposition of the case by the reviewing or
appellate authority; thereafter, with respect
to the unserved or unremitted portion of the
sentence they shall be confined as follows:

(1) US Nationals—In the Federal Reformatory
for Women, Alderson, West Virginia, or else-
where as the Secretary of the Army shall
direct.

(2) Non-US Nationals—In such place as may
be directed by Headquarters, European Com-
mand,

c. Males (US and Non-US Nationals) sen-
tenced to terms of confinement not exceeding
6 months, whose sentences have not been
suspended and who have not been released on
bail, shall be committed to a post level con-
finement installation as prescribed by regula-
tions of Headquarters, European Command.

d. Males sentenced to terms of confinement
exceeding 6 months, whose sentences have
not been suspended or who have not been
released on bail, shall be committed to the
European Command Military Prison pending
final disposition of the case by the reviewing
or appellate authority; thereafter, with re-
spect to any unserved or unremitted portion
of the sentence they shall be confined as
follows:

(1) US Nationals—In the United States Dis-
ciplinary Barracks, Fort Hancock, New Jersey,
or elsewhere as the Secretary of the Army
shall direct.

(2) Non-US Nationals—European Command
Military Prison, Mannheim, Germany.

5-603.2/—/ Sentences of Military Government
Courts.

Sentences of Military Government Courts
shall conform to the requirements set forth in
MGR 5-603.1.

Power of the Reviewing Authority.

If upon review or appeal or in pyrsuance
of the exercise of any power of commutation
or clemency any sentence of confinement shall
be reduced so as to bring the prisoner into a
different category for confinement purposes
from that originally fixed by the trial court,
the sentence and commitment shall) be appro-
priately modified and amended to conform to
the requirement set forth in MGR 5-603.1.

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Education & Cultural Relations,
Report of the Military Governor,
September 1948.

Civilian Education for Regular Army
Transportation Corps Officers, AG 352 AGP-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 15 Nov. 1948.

Federal Income Tax, AG 012.2 GPA, Hq
EUCOM, 6 Dec. 1948.

Derequisition and Disposition of German
Procured Supplies and Materials, AG 400.12
GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 6 Dec. 1948.

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin No. 49,

Special
OMGUS,

EUCOM Publications Depot, 8 Dec. 1948.
Covers Nov. 29 to Dec. 3.
Economic Press Digest, No. 28, OMGUS

PIO (Frankfurt), 10 Dec. 1948.

Legislation for Monetary Reform, AG 003
(FA), OMGUS, 11 Dec. 1948. Attached is text
of Regulation No. 13 under MG Law No. 63.

Establishment of the Post Highway Patrol,
AG 010.8 PMG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 13 Dec. 1948.

Implementation of US and French Agree-
ment on Jurisdiction and Venue of Denazifi-
cation Cases and Mutual Recognition of De-
nazification Decisions between the French
and US Zones, AG 383 (CA), OMGUS,
15 Dec. 1948.

Heute, No. 74, ISD, OMGB, 15 Dec. 1948.

Neue Auslese, Vol. 3, No. 12, ISD, OMGB,
December 1948.

Commitment of US and Allied Occupation
Personnel Sentenced by MG Courts (Advance
Copy of Change 8 to Military Government
Regulations Title 5, ‘Legal and Penal
Administration."), AG 014.12 (LD), OMGUS,
16 Dec. 1948.

News of Germany, Vol.
OMGUS, 16 Dec. 1948.

Semi-Monthly Military Government Report,
No. 104, PIO OMGUS, 17 Dec. 1948,

4, No. 63, ISD

News of Germany,
OMGUS, 18 Dec. 1948.
Die Neue Zeitung,
OMGUS, 18 Dec. 1948.
Reciprocal Legal Aid, AG 014.13 (LD),
OMGUS, 20 Dec. 1948. Gives revised list of

consular representatives as of Dec. 1.

Vol. 4, No. 64, ISD

Vol. 4, No, 99, ISD

Christmas Messages, AG 335.18 (AG),
OMGUS, 20 Dec. 1948. “
Feeding of German Civilian Contract

Workers in the US Area of Control, Ger-
many, AG 430.2 (EA), OMGUS, 20 Dec. 1948.
News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 65, ISD
OMGUS, 21 Dec. 1948.
Die Neue Zeitung, Vol. 4, No.
OMGUS, 21 Dec. 1948.
News of Germany,
OMGUS, 23 Dec. 1948.
Information Bulletin, No. 151, CO OMGUS,
28 Dec. 1948.

100, ISD

Vol. 4, No. 66, ISD

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF

--- Page 36 ---
OCCUPIED AREAS OF GERMANY

(oeNMaRK ory
PRESS

pera ie
be
oS
ee
au
MECKLENBURG f
ee
age: N
4 BREMEN
(
) BREMEN iy
a ONG OREMEN BRANDENBURG
abs bat Vv N\
a ie LOWER SAXONY
4 6% BRITISH SECTOR:
‘ S BPARTTE BoaRt
ee ¢ HANQVER ALLIED CONTROL’ AUTHORITY.
a ‘8 BRUNSWICK AR anceur ALLIED KOMManoe PDE
is MAGDEBURG One BERR oe SEetOR
Ss
oe
z
ina i
¥ gssen OS SACHSEN-ANHALT
¢ bea ed XA
-\
NORTH RHINE
oy ri
2) WESTPHALIA > o
if
} e hi ORESOEN
' LOGNE GN
C in
4 SAXONY Res
tno}
oO
7 =a COBLENZ
‘a WIESBADEN
a Be) OMG "HESSE ,
\ 3 om ee ; BAMBERG .
} Fi RHINELAND- i :
7 3 ,
a PALATINATE ;
«
eee u
NUREMBERG
MIL TRIB C
occwc
REGENSBURG Gane.
PTET es a a
}
BAVARIA Passau a
oe
AUGSBURG
,
. MUNICH
OMG BAVARIA
4
7
:
:

GARMISCH
e

\ cant
va eight ES ie «Alig tac eens Pe chy ears Sai y

--- Page 37 ---
Towers of the Soviet-controlled
Radio Berlin are shown after
being blown up near Tegel
airport, in the French sector.
French authorities said the
towers were a menace to airlift
planes using the new Tegel air-
port, — {US Army photograph)
7