--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE of US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

WINTER MANEUVERS

NO. 154 FEBRUARY 8, 1949

br; Seeing for Themselves

— — Govern

--- Page 3 ---
ANVWYS9 NI LNAWNYSAOS AYVLITIW SNA

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE
WINTER MANEUVERS—Checking
y ly-morning movement
Ee toiantry ean Pe ne the Heisiok M | L | TA R Y G (@) Vv E R N M E N T
towns of Friedburg and Bad Nauheim
during the January training operations

is General Lucius D. Clay, Command-
in-Chief of the European Command
Gen, Arthur Trudeau (right) of the US

Constabulary. Explaining the situation
is Major Anderson of the 18th Infaniry.

A pictorial story of Operations
‘Snowdrop Able’ is on page 8 and 9.
(US Army photo)

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS

i
|
:

The Information Bulletin is the bi-

weekly magazine of the Office of Mili- Issue No. 154 February 8, 1949
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in- High-Price Bubble Bursts . 2. 2 2... 1... 2
formation concerning the policies, Seeing for Themselves . phvtaipha'h UMAR GR, | Senta BS mI ie cr tees
regulations, instructions, operations Article by Dr. Edward H. Litchfield
and activities of Military Government DM Shows Strength . BAU PR SoasteN Nec ee hue a AES
and affiliated organizations, Value Compared with Swiss Franc
Editorial Offices Bizone Food Contracts Soar in Last Half of 1948. . . | 6
Directors Building, Room 1050 Review of ERP Aid . ron oe beeen Se le as 7
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin Statement by N. H. Collison
Tel: 42227, 42252, 42923 Operation ‘Snowdrop Able’... ......., 8
Editor H. Warmer Waid Pictorial of Army Maneuvers
Assistant Editor Henry S. Matteo Personnel Changes are Announced. . . . . . . . . . 10
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes US Notes on PW's . EA Gp ie erat a nie a 11
Soviets Asked to Explain Failure
Mailing address:
Open Forum Survey . 3 FINE ea Sepa 13
Information Bulletin Bavarians Warming Up to Idea
Control Office, OMGUS ill Muni hil
Berlin, Germany Films Thrill; Munich ‘Children s) 45 2.0 s5t 0, ae ge
APO 742, US Army Bavaria’s Vacationland . £ pecubte sy ete A Gna ota 15
Opening of Postwar Tourist Trade
Correspondence in the United States a a i Me
i j sctributi ermany's New Press . Raab Not isl tin I QRaHEY ictus Desens rhltingg A
Concerning articles and distribution Review of Development in US Zone
Should be made to: i 1 Opt f G 35
ditoria ion from German press... .... ,
Reports & Analysis Branch 2 ii A
Civil Affairs Division German Town Inaugurates US Student Traffic Patrol. . . 27
Department of the Army Germans Get.Free” Radio oii i0 i iy MUU ae eNO)
Washington 25° DC? as MG Relinquishes Controls
Printing and distribution of the Documents, Directives, Publications, Documents. . . . 31
magazine is handled by the Publi- Excerpts Taken from Official Instructions. . . . . . , 32

Cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS,

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
Cifically noted, is permitted with credit OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

Bos Thformatina Busicng ana te CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH
Ber or soures cited with Gis atide BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
High-Price Bubble Bursts;

German Economy Benefits

by William R. Karsteter, Historian, OMG Hesse

T was the best Christmas in at least six years
for Germany. Shops were full, windows were
well-lighted and attractively displayed, and
throngs of shoppers crowded the streets. For the
first time since the end of the war, there was a
breath of Gemiitlichkeit (exuberance) in the air.

Hans Schmidt, German man-on-the-street, took
what little he had saved, added his last pay
envelope and his Christmas bonus to it, and in
spite of exorbitant prices, went out to shoot the
works, The exceptionally high pre-Christmas prices
acted only as a deterrent; they did not stop him
from spending, and spending down to his last
pfennig (penny).

Things had been building up to this Christmas
buying spree for months. Prices had been main-
tained at high levels in anticipation of it, and
production had steadily mounted in the hope of
building up stocks which could be moved at high
prices. Every manufacturer had counted on Hans
to spend everything he had in his Christmas blow-
out, and Hans had lived right up to expectations.

He had a fine Christmas, the best in years; but
on the Monday after, he was broke and a little
bit worried. Not only had he spent all his money,
he had also bought what he wanted at prices
determined not by the cost of manufacture plus
a resonable profit, but by his own imperious
demand.

IHAT Hans was something of a Dummkopf

(blockhead) became crystal clear the week
after Christmas, when prices in nearly every line
of goods fell off somewhat, and gave indications of
falling off more and more throughout the coming
weeks, As a result of his lack of thrift, Hans had
put himself in a spot where he was broke and
completely dependent on his job. The only way
he could get along during the coming months was
to pull in his belt, live within his means, work
hard and work efficiently to protect his source
of income.

Hans skill and energy, combined with those of
a million like him, were Hesse’s chief source of
productivity. At the same time, the money in
Hans’ collective pocket made him the chief market
for Hesse’s produce. What Hans did, then, and
what he thought and felt, intimately affected the
whole economic life of the state. And now, after
Christmas, Hans felt like working hard; he did not
feel like buying anything unnecessary. He had
no money.

At the end of December, it looked very much
as if production—subject to the limitations of
available power and coal—would be on the
increase, and industrial efficiency (or productivity)
would be far above preceding months. At the
same time, the fact that Hans has not desire to
buy, and especially to buy indiscriminately,
would bring about a significant slump in demand.

ICES, already on their way down, could be
expected to skid further—to skid so far, in
fact, that (so long as raw materials kept flowing
in) shortly the major part of Hesse’s produce
would be sold at the cost of manufacture plus a
reasonable profit, instead of at such high prices
as the market would bear.

The approach to a “cost-plus economy’ was
hailed by Hessian economists as the healthiest
economic development in December. Hans’ hard-
earned money—plus his Christmas bonus—was
now in the hands of wholesalers and manufacturers;
presumably it would be used to place new orders
and to acquire more raw materials.

But these new orders and raw materials would
be obtained at prices considerably lower than
before Christmas. Unless something went radically
wrong, the savings on new orders would be
passed on the Hans — and would have to be
passed on in order to pry Hans’ money away
from him. :

At the end of December, partly because Hans
Schmidt was such a Christmas spendthrift, the
Hessian economy looked sounder than ever before.

(Reprinted from Monthly Report of OMG Hesse for December)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

FEBRUARY 8, 1

--- Page 6 ---
Seeing for

Them:

— — Governmental Affairs Exchange Program

ERMAN eyes and ears were so

thoroughly bombarded for a
dozen years by the Goebbels press
and radio that the average German
no longer believes what he reads or
hears, The gullible Germans of the
Thirties have thus become sceptical
Germans of the Forties,

Nearly every worker in Military
Government could give examples of
this trend among some of the Ger-
mans with whom he comes in contact.

Tell a certain stenographer that
people of an Allied nation get hardly
more food than she does, and her
raised eyebrows express her doubt.
After all; London is far away. What
she knows ‘is the potato situation in
Berlin.

“Maybe what you say is true, but
Ihave not seen it, so I can't be sure.”

We have all received this reply—a
common one—after reminding some
German acquaintance that Warsaw
and Rotterdam were bombed, too; or

after informing him that thousands of
Chinese go coatless,

T IS GENERAL knowledge, of

course, that many Germans label
as “propaganda” and refuse to credit
phenomena which lie only a bus ride
from their homes, such as the gas-
chambers in the concentration camp
at Dachau, outside Munich. Even
higher, therefore, is the mental wall
they erect against events across the
Rhine or across the Atlantic.

Back up your facts by pointing
them out in black and white, and you
Tun up against another obstacle: some
Postwar Germans will not believe
€ven a newspaper clipping.

“Yes, it says so there on paper,”
they May admit, and then add cynic-
ally, "but paper is patient.”
Fortunately, countless Germans,
disheartened by their country’s past,
Tow hunger for new ideas and re-
Cognize their country's need to catch

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

by

up with the West. Trying to minister
to their appetite, several OMGUS
divisions are therefore sending good
selected Germans on carefully planned
voyages. The route: west to the New
World, The mission: to. see for
themselves.

UR RESPONSIBILITY in the Civil

Administration Division is to aid
and abet by every means at our
command the democratic political
forces which are beginning to struggle
for life in Western Germany.

The framework of German
democracy has already been
erected at the community and
state level. Soon it will be
built up to the trizonal level
too. Millions of Germans
have now cast the first free
ballots of their lives. They
are examining their new
political machine, pulling a
lever here and there, trying
to make the thing run. And
they are finding that there
is no standard instruction
book in self-government.

Every community in the
history of democracy has
operated its controls in a
different manner. Through-
out German history, the
Germans have found German
roads to culture, philosophy
and science. Building their
democracy must be a Ger-
man job, too.

There are, however, cer-
tain basic rules of procedure
common to self-government.
Unless the administrators to
whom you entrust your
public power have heard
about these rules, they may
wreck, in their ignorance,
the whole machinery of
government, When the com-

3

Dr. Edward H. Litchfield

Director ‘
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS

plex democratic machine known as
the Weimar Republic was thus
wrecked, the explosion that ensued
shook the world,

N TODAY's Germany, the time for

oratory has largely passed and the
time for the teaching of techniques
has arrived. Defeated, disillusioned,
the Germans by and large are afraid
to experiment with a new tyranny,
whether home-grown or imported from
the East. They see democracy as the

(Continued on next page)

Dr. Litchfield, author of this article, discusses
wiih Mrs. Nora Melle of Berlin-Charlottenburg
plans for her going to the United States under
the program described in the article. Mrs. Melle
is a member of the LDP women’s advisory com-
mittee, first vice-president of the “Notgemein-
schaft,” a women’s non-partisan political or-
ganization, and a former member of the Berlin
City Council.

(US Army Photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
only safe road. But if they are con-
vinced of the road to take, they still
need our help in order to anticipate
its forks, its dangerous curves and its
obstacles.

To us, the rules of democratic
procedure are almost second nature.
They beginn when father, mother and
children conduct a forum at the break-
fast table. They are developed in
sixth grade, when we elect a commit-
tee to buy refreshments for the Hal-
lowe’en party. They become conscious-
ly political in ninth-grade civics class.
They bear fruit in adult life when we
go out to elect the administration of
our club, of our city and of our nation.

The Germans, cheated by history of
most of this training in self-govern-
ment, need to begin almost at the
beginning. To help them off to a faster
start, we are making available to
them —for acceptance or rejection —
the techniques which have been
tested throughout the western world.

One way by which we are introduc-
ing foreign techniques is to bring ex-
perts from the United States and other
nations to work for short terms inside
Germany. What these specialists in
such fields as public health and local
government hope to accomplish, and
how they are going about it, deserve
a discussion in itself.

The other half of the program of
cultural exchange in the field of
governmental affairs is the procedure
which allows Germans to visit the
United States and, eventually, other
western democracies too, to see
democratic action for themselves,

NFORTUNATELY, the many Ger-

mans who now want proof of
“how it works abroad” cannot all go.
Our funds allow us to "show" it to
only a comparative handful. So we try
to select a representative handful of
individuals who will, on their return
to Germany, be in the best position to
spread convincingly the reports of
what they have seen.

Under the governmental affairs pro-
gram, about 150 Germans are there-
fore scheduled to be selected by mid-
1949 for visits to the United States.

How should they go? What should
they see?

The easiest way would be to bring
the 150 together, take them to Bremer-
haven, supply them with an escort,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

wish them “Bon Voyage” at the gang-
plank, and hope for the best. On such
a conducted joy-ride we might show
them Manhattan's skyline; let them
hear a Philadelphia Orchestra concert
to convince them that America has
culture too; invite them to sit through
a double-feature movie on a small
town's main street; show them a
southern cotton field, a Vermont
maple-sugar grove, a midwest farm, a
California vineyard, the Chicago

stockyards; let them attend a New
England town meeting; show them ir-

Dr. Rolf May (right), special assistant
to Berlin's deputy mayor, Dr, Ferdi-
nand Friedensburg, takes leave of Mr.
John T. Butterwick, deputy chief,
Civil Administration & Political
Affairs Branch, OMG Berlin Sector,
as he leaves Tempelhof Airport for
the United States, A member of the
Victims of Fascism organization, Dr.
May is the first person to leave Berlin
under the CAD OMGUS governmental
affairs exchange project.

(US Army Photo)
rigation projects in the West, slum
clearance in the East—and then bring
them home again.

N THE BASIS of such an ex-

perience they might report that
America is youthful, democratic, com-
paratively happy, strong, purposeful,
peace-minded, Our purpose, however,
is not merely to convince Germans
that the United States is a going
democratic concern but also to let
them observe American techniques
which they may find worthy of trans-
planting to German soil. Their interest
is not in evaluating America as a
pleasant place to live, but in bringing
back ideas and processes to modify

4

the public administration of a land
which has contributed largely to most |
of the world’s political and military
misery for the past hundred years,
Our first step, then, was to decide
whom to send to the United States.
Germany needs help in many fields.
Here are the principal groups we
chose for our project:
1. Political leaders in general.
2. Women political leaders in par-
ticular.
3. Local government
general.
. Civil servants.
. Public health workers.
. Police executives.
. Public welfare directors.
Legislators.
. Personnel administrators. .
Each of these groups requires a ~
specially planned tour to fit its par 7
ticular professional interests. Not
sightseeing, but learning, is the goal,
and the lessons differ in each field,

officials in

CHONone

ARSIGHTED women political le
ers, for example, have asked help
in learning how women of the weste:
world organize themselves for demo-
cratic action. Studying the social pat-|
tern of the majority of German
women, it is easy to see what these”
leaders are trying to correct.
With homes broken and husbands
scarce, the normal pattern of the thi
K's of Kinder-Kirche-Kueche (childrel
church-kitchen) has become largely a
memory. The women of postwar Ger
many outnumber the men by some
6,000,000. Thousands of them, if
properly encouraged, can do public |
work according to their talents, rang-
ing from supervising a local office fe
the rehabilitation of refugees to
ning a state child welfare bureau
even holding a ministerial post in @
busy state government. y
More important, German wome:
can, if properly encouraged, bri
their political influence to bear whi
it will have a direct impact on th
course of German history. One of
activities which Germans have ca
men’s work, the science of gové
ment, has a way, once it disintegra!
into warfare, of hurting the won
survivors most,
Aside from war and peace,
intermediate political issues,
(Continued on page

FEBRUARY 8,

--- Page 8 ---
,

DM Shows Strength

MERICAN economic and finance
officials in the Bipartite Control
Office in Frankfurt have completed
a study comparing the purchasing
value of the Deutsche mark in Frank-
furt with the Swiss franc in Switzer-
land. The result shows that the Deut-
sche mark, valued at 30 cents, com-
pares favorably with the Swiss hard
currency which is recognized as one
of the soundest in Europe.

The study does not attempt to
compare the standard of living in
Germany and Switzerland. It is ob-
yious that there is a greater supply
of goods in Switzerland, that wages
are higher and the average Swiss
lives better since the war than the
average German. But what the study
does indicate is that the value of the
Deutsche mark in relation to the
price of goods available is correctly
valued at 30 cents.

Swiss prices used in the study were
obtained from official government
figures and reports of the commercial
attache of the US Consulate in Bern.
The prices for Frankfurt were obtain-
ed from statistics gathered by the
Hessian State Statistical Office. The
US dollar was used as a common
denominator by converting the Swiss
franc at 25 cents and the Deutsche
mark at 30 cents.

IHE COMPARISON of 15 food

items, both rationed and un-
tationed, in Switzerland and Frank-
furt shows that on this basis nine
items are cheaper in Frankfurt and
six are cheaper in Switzerland, Bread
and flour are slightly cheaper in
Switzerland, Bread and flour are
Slightly cheaper in Frankfurt than in
Switzerland, The prices of vegetables
4M general are about the same.

The Frankfurt housewife has to
Pay only a little more for sugar, but
she has to pay more than six times
88 much for coffee, mainly because
°f the high coffee tax in the Bizone.
Potatoes, on the other hand, cost
about twice as much in Switzerland
9s in Frankfurt.

_ FEBRUARY 8, 1949

a

— — Value Compared with Swiss Frane

If a housewife in Frankfurt bought
all of the 15 food items used in the
study, she would pay a little more
for her basket of groceries than the
Swiss housewife would pay. But if
the Frankfurt housewife scratched
the heavily-taxed coffee off her
shopping list, she could buy the other
14 items for less than the housewife
in Zurich could.

Light and heat are considerably
cheaper in Frankfurt than in Switzer-
land. The costs of such services as
hair cuts, taxis, telephone and clean-
ing and pressing are about the same
in both countries.

A man’s cotton shirt sells for about
the same in Frankfurt and Switzer-
land. Men's shoes are slightly cheaper
and men’s suits are considerably
cheaper in Frankfurt, although the
quality is better in Switzerland.

NDICATIONS of the Deutsche mark

soundness are the increase in the
productivity of the individual worker
in the Bizone and the sharp decline,
almost to the vanishing point, of ab-
senteeism in factories. It is plain that
the workers now have a currency
they want to work for.

Take the Ruhr, for example. Since
Jan. 1, there has been a-sharp in-
crease in coal production, and a new
postwar record of 331,283 tons per
day has been set by the Ruhr coal
miners. Special incentives have been
discontinued. Yet the miners are
digging more coal than at any time
since the end of the war because
they have found the Deutsche mark
to be the best incentive they can have.

Another indication of the sound-
ness of the Deutsche mark can be
found in the present trend of prices
in the Bizone. A person only has to
look at the daily press to see reports
of falling prices. Price reductions be-
tween five and thirty percent for
consumer goods, mainly clothing and
textiles, have been reported from
several cities in the Bizone.

In Frankfurt, textiles and shoes have
shown reductions up to 20 percent.

5

In Hanover the same goods have
been selling 36 percent cheaper, with
furniture prices down as much as
20 percent. In Brunswick shoes and
leather goods have gone down 20 to
25 peroant, clothing 10 to 15 percent
and household goods between five
and ten percent. Stuttgart has re-
ported a drop in raw hide prices of
between 15 and 20 percent since
December.

MERICAN officiales in BICO also
expect further immediate price
reductions and a gradual stabilization
of the price structure, They say that
the increasing stability of the western
German economy is a logical, antic-
ipated result of the increase in pro-
duction, the arrival of imported
goods and the prospect of larger
deliveries in the immediate future,
and the growing confidence in the
Deutsche mark since currency reform.
It was the purpose of the currency
reform of last June to give western
Germany through one decisive
measure a stable currency as a foun-
dation on which it couid rebuild a
sound economy. This step has been
so successful in stimulating production
which is the key to economic re-
covery and price stability.

Germany has the capacity to keep
production increasing if it gets the
raw materials, and these are being
provided by the US Government and.
through the cooperative recovery
program of the countries of western
Europe. This common effort will give
the German population in the coming
years, not only a sound currency, but
a standard of living on a level with
in the countries of western Europe.

Delivery Failure Fines

Fines amounting to more than
DM _ 30,700 were been imposed on
48 farmers during the first two weeks
of December by the Bavarian Food
Ministry for failure to deliver grains,
milk and cattle, it was announced by
the Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Division, OMG Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Oil Output Tops
Prewar Production

Bizonal oil fields are
crude oi] at the annual rate of
650,000 tons compared with 1936
production of 445,000 tons, the Bi-
partite Commerce and Industry Group
has announced,

The chief reason for this large
postwar rise was the opening of the
Emsland oil field, near the Dutch
border, during the beginning of the
occupation in 1945, Also contributing
their share to the increased production
are the Hanover oil fields, which are
producing greater quanties than be-
fore the war. Other major bizonal oil
fields are at Reitbrook near Hamburg
and Heide in Schleswig-Holstein

Although production is much
higher than before the war, a BICO
official stated, more than 70 percent
of bizonal Germany's consumption
must be imported. These imports are
paid from funds made available by
ECA, JEIA and GARIOA (Govern-
ment Aid and Relief in Occupied
Areas) and amount to $55,000,000
annually.

In addition to this sum, another
$10,000,000 of ECA funds are pro-
grammed during the fiscal year on
oil-producing and refining equipment.

A BICO official said bizonal re-
fineries are producing, from the Bi-
zone annual crude oil production,
90,000 tons of gasoline and 75,000
tons of diesel oil. Lubricants and other
products are also obtained.

producing

Political Ban Stands
Military Government has not
changed its attitude toward
licensing of refugee political
parties, despite recent reports to
the contrary in the German press.
“Military Government has not
authorized refugee political par-
ties," said Mr. Albert C. Schweizer,
chief of the Civil Administration
Division, OMG Bavaria, in com-

menting on the false reports,

In order to compensate for the
difference between the Bizone’s pro-
duction and consumption, the following
approximate tonnages are being
imported annually: 325,000 tons of
gasoline, 578 tons of crude oi] and
625,000 tons of diesel oil.

Population Statistics

New procedures for the coordination
of bizonal population figures, estimates,
and forecasts were agreed to by the
Bipartite Board. The coordinating
agency on the German side will be
the Bizonal Statistical Office. Co-
ordination and review on the Allied
side will be the Bizonal Statistical
Office. Coordination and review on
the Allied side will be the respons-
ibility of the Bipartite Statistical
Office, which will release official
figures after clearance with the
OMGUS and CCG(BE) headquarters
staffs.

Nuremberg Film
Draws Large Crowds

Because of the nature of the sub-
ject matter, the first public showings
of “Nirnberg’ (Nuremberg), the
documentary film of the war guilt
trials before the International Mili-
tary Tribunal were observed with
great care by Military Government.
Produced by the MG documentary
film unit the picture is a presentation
of the trial scenes, the prosecution's
statements, and the background of
war and persecution.

After several unannounced pre-
views to test German reactions to
the film, “Nurnberg” was released for
public viewing at Stuttgart Nov. 21.
During its five-day run, the 90-minute
documentary story of Nazi’ crimes
drew larger crowds than any picture
shown at that theater since June's
currency reform, and was generally
well-received.

With showings planned for Karls-
ruhe, Mannheim and Heidelberg, the
new documentary will be put into
general distribution throught the
western zones.—From Military Gover-
nor's Monthly Report No. 42.

First Typhus Case
The first case of typhus fever since
1945 was reported in Kaufbeuren,
Bavaria. The disease was apparently
caused by dust from old clothing re-
cently acquired which had not been
properly disinfected.

Bizone Food Contracts Soar in Last Half of 1948

HE DOLLAR value of food pro-

curement contracts for the Bi-
zone more than doubled during the
last half of 1948, the Joint Food Pro-
curement Office in Frankfurt has
announced, This rise was due to the
use, for the first time, of export pro-
ceeds for general food purchases, it
was explained. Under earlier arrange-
ments such food purchases had been
confined to use of special incentive
schemes,

Officials of the JEPO also stated
that the purchases financed by export
proceeds were made almost entirely
from neighboring European countries.
This marks a significant return to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

pre-war trade patterns, it was said.
Food procurements totaled approxi-
mately $ 125,200,000 during the latter
half of 1948, JEIA officials pointed
out, compared to about $55,000,000
for the first half. Of the $ 125,200,000,
$65,800,000 represented food contracts
financed by export proceeds, and
$59,500,000 represented contracts
financed by ECA and Army ap-
propriated funds,

About $50,000,000 of the $65,800,000
total was spent on foods for the
general German economy. The re-
mainder was for foods under the
miners’ and bonus B schemes, now
discontinued.

ECA-financed imports, which made
their first appearance during 1948,
accounted for about 15 percent of all
food contracts signed that year, The
dollar value of ECA-financed food
contracts was more than four times
as high during the second half of
1948 as in the first six months period,
as the flow of Washington-approved
funds for this purpose under the bi-
zonal recovery program continued to
pour steadily into western Germany.

The largest commodity increase’
was in seeds and fertilizers, for which
$39,000,000 ware spent in the latter
half of 1948 as compared to only
$8,600,000 in the first half.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 10 ---
Review of

ERMAN INDUSTRY has made

great strides in the past few
months. The persons who work on
the ERP don’t take credit for that. A
number of other very important fac-
tors influenced that rise in industrial
production. But it is clear that the
psychological effect of the Marshall
Plan did much to encourage those
satisfactory trends.

Our first problem was to get to
Germany enough food to keep the
workers adequately fed. By Dec. 17,
the last figures now available, roughly
$202,000,000 worth of food and agri-
cultural items had been programmed,
of which about $89,000,000 worth had
already been delivered. A great flow
of Marshall Plan goods has poured
into German ports in the last few
weeks, and I am reasonably confident
that almost half of the programmed
deliveries have actually been accom-
plished.

The picture is considerably brighter
today in the matter of industrial
goods. The pipeline which was some-
what slow in getting started, is now
filling, and the next two or three
months should produce tangible
evidence of raw materials and equip-
ment for industrial use. Our latest
figures, again as of the middle of
December, show that some 45 percent
of those goods programmed for the
Bizone have actually been contracted
for and are now in the process either
of being manufactured or of being
shipped to Germany.

S FAR AS western Germany is
concerned, the most outstanding
accomplishment of the Marshall Plan
has been the acceptance of Germany
as an integral part of the western
European concert. Under the auspices
of both ERP and agencies of Military
Government, trade agreements have
been worked out with some 21
other nations, Negotiations with other
Countries are now in progress. The
Bizone and the French Zone are fully
Tepresented in the councils of the
Organization for European Economic

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

ERP Aid

Cooperation (OEEC). They have be-
come members of the Intra-European
Payments Plan. In short, Germany is
being called upon to do its share for
the recovery of Europe as a whole.

The extent to which the Bizone is
re-integrating itself witht the economy
of Europe can best be noted by the
expected rise in bizonal contributions
to the Intra-European Payments
scheme. It is estimated that in
1949-50 its contribution will be about
$45,300,000 as against the $10,200,000
programmed for 1948-49, Over the
long run it is hoped that Bizone
surpluses with non-sterling participa-
tion countries will be used to meet
an almost identical deficit with the
dollar and sterling areas.

Owing to a somewhat slower recov-
ery in the French. Zone, its balance
of payment account does not appear
as satisfactory as that of the Bizone,
and a dollar deficit is almost certain

This review is the text of a
statement made at a press con-
ference in Frankfurt by Mr. Colli-
son shortly before he left for
Washington to testify at Con-
gressional hearings on the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1948.

to occur in 1949-50, A balance should
come at a later stage after raw
materials have been made available
in more adequate quantities and the
investment program has had time to
take effect.

E SHOULD not delude ourselves

into thinking that the goals of
the long-term program—that is, achiev-
ing viability by 1953, can be achieved
or even approached without the strong-
est efforts on the part of the Germans
themselves. The recent report of Se-
cretary-General Robert Marjolin of
the OEEC on the long-term program
indicates that the whole of Europe,
indeed, by the most determined of
efforts will, as far as can be foreseen,

7

by N. H. Collison

Deputy Chief of Special
ECA Mission to the Bizone

still fall some $3,000,000,000 short of
balancing its trade by the end of the
long-term program. Germany is no
different from the other countries.
What lies before Germany is the
necessity to carry on an arduous
export program and at the same time
limiting domestic consumption to the
barest minimum.

German imports should as much as
possible be limited to the necessary
food imports, capital equipment and
raw materials for use in the manu-
facture of finished or semi-finished
goods. It is only through such manu-
facture that Germany, standing on its
own economic feet, could pay for its
essential purchases of food stuffs,

Germany must export more. Its
greatest exportable commodity today
is coal, and while total production
shows encouraging progress, the total
production per man shift is still below
what it should be. Many excuses have
been offered for this low figure. It is
my earnest conviction that the main
remedy lies in the efforts of the
Germans themselves.

Germany must increase its output
of electrical energy. It should become
a part of a European grid system. Its
brown coal must contribute to this
venture, The production of semi-
finished goods, precision instruments
and machinery for which Germany
has always been so famous must
form the backbone of the export
effort. Germany must catch up with
the rest of the world in industrial
techniques and must, seek to re-
capture its markets lost before and
during the war.

NE OF THE major problems fac-

ing Germany in whatever export
program it undertakes is that of
actually selling the goods. Com-
petitors have arisen in markets which
were once exclusively German. New
inventions and discoveries have made
obsolete some of the very products
through which Germany once held
world preeminence. In the recovery

program, restoration of manufacturing
(Continued on page 27)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Lt. Col. W. J, Sutton, EUCOM Control Group G 2, briefs Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner, Deputy Commander-in-
Chief, EUCOM (second from left, first row); Maj. Gen. I. D. With (left) and staff officers on maneuvers phases,

Capt. O. R. Sears (left), Maj. H. C.
Petros, 33rd Field Artillery scan map.

Men of tne Service Battery, 33rd Field Artillery, pause
for afew moments to gather around their truck to eat.

FORMATION BULLETIN

Operation “Snowdrop Able’

EUCOM's first wintertime maneu-
vers — “Snowdrop Able“ — were
held in mid-January along the east
bank of the Rhine River, south of the
Main River to Karlsruhe.

Participating in the maneuvers were
troops from the 1st Infantry Division,
Constabulary Headquarters, the ist
and 2nd Constabulary Brigades and
the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment.

“Snowdrop Able,” commanded by
Maj. Gen. I. D. White, commanding
general of the Constabulary, began at
6 a. m. on Jan, 17 and ended after 144
hours of continuous field action,

Divided

into

three phases, the ©

maneuvers were designed to test the
abilities of American combat units in ~
Germany under cold weather condi

tions.

(US Army photos)

A water purification point is set up in bivouac area of
26th Infantry Regimental Combat Team near Weinheim.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949 7

--- Page 12 ---
Pyt. Harry Klein of 26th Infantry Col. John P. Evan, commanding officer of 16th Infantry, explains posi-
Regiment strings communications wire, tions of his troops to Gen. Lucius D. Clay, EUCOM Commander-in-Chief.

Mess sergeant and assistant super- Members of D Company, 26th Infantry hold an impromptu critique
the previous day's activities in the Odenwald, near Weinheim.

vise preparation of midnight meal on

4

Eee,
Joie tasomsaiaelaeti:

Yq

This was the

1 view of the camping grounds of signal section, 1st Constabulary Brigade, near Bad Soden,
lirst stopping point for these troops after their move out from their home station to begin the maneuvers,
INFORMATION BULLETIN

9

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 13 ---
Personel Changes
Are Announced

Col. John J. Dubbelde, Jr., budget
and fiscal director/CINCEUR, returned
to the United States for duty with
the 9th Infantry Division at Fort Dix,
N, J. on a routine change of station,
after having served for three and a
half years in the European Command.

Mr. Jo Fisher Freeman was ap-
pointed acting finance adviser,
OMGUS, succeeding Mr. Jack Bennett,
who has returned to the United
States, Mr. Freeman has been deputy
finance adviser since March 1, 1948.
Prior to that he served with the
Foreign Exchange and _ Blocking
Control Branch, Finance Division.

Mr, William A. Fagan was ap-
pointed deputy chief of the Bipartite
Transport Group in Frankfurt, suc-
ceeding Maj. Gen. Charles P, Gross,
who recently was appointed director
of OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden. Mr.
Fagan previously was chief of the
Movement Branch, Transport Group.

Mr, Hector C, Prud’‘homme was
appointed Marshall Plan represent-
ative in the French Zone with offices
in Baden-Baden. Mr. Prud'homme is
to help French Zone official in
formulating and administering the
Marshall Plan within the French
Zone. He had been in the Office of
the US Political Adviser in Germany
since 1947 and recently transferred
to the ECA,

Two Win Bronze Star

Bronze Star Medals have been pre-
sented to Maj. Walter E. Mather, US
secretary for the Bipartite Secreta-
tiat, and Lt. George G. Harper, Office
of the Chief of Staff, OMGUS.

Major Mather was cited for meri-
torious sérvice while a company
commander in Hawaii in 1941 and
1942, The citation read in part: “His
actions contributed materially to the
reconstruction of the island after the
Japanese attack and to the subse-
quent defense of the territory.”

Lieutenant Harper was honored
“for exemplary conduct in ground
combat against the armed enemy
during the Naples-Foggia campaign in
the Mediterranean Theater of Opera-
tions.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Mr. Edward O. Smith (right), chief of the Restitution Branch, OMG

Wuerttemberg-Baden, receives the award of the Order of the White Lion,
Fifth Class, of the government of Czechoslovakia for his work in

restitution of Nazi-looted materials to that country. Congratulating him
is Lt. Col. Joseph H. Rousseau, Jr., commanding officer of the OMGWB
headquarters, while 1st Lt. Zak, adjutant, looks on.

Adult Education Attendance Drops

Attendance at adult education
institutions in the US-occupied area
of Germany has dropped 50 percent
since the introduction of the new
German currency, according to the
Education and Cultural Relations
Division, OMGUS, in Nuremberg.

A reduction in tuition fees for the
current term failed to produce any
noticeable attendance increase in the
22 adult education schools of the US
area, This resulted in an even greater
financial loss, since the major sup-
port of the ischools has come from
tuition fees.

During recent weeks enrollment has
been increased by more active
publicity campaigns, introduction of
new courses and revision of the
existing curriculum. The institutions
are now emphasizing improved
teaching methods and greater student
participation.

Several Bavarian schools sold gift
certificates before Christmas. A
number of adult education directors
have contacted political, industrial,
civic and cultural leaders in their

10

(PIO OMGWB photo)

communities to enlist their support
in the drive for increased enrollment,

In Schwaebisch Gmuend, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, school officials sought
publicity by arranging a series of
forums between members of ithe
municipal government and students
of the school,

A Bavarian “people's high school”
has printed its program on ration
cards with the approval of the local
food office. Folk dancing courses,
transportation , service to rural com-
munities and documentary film
matinees are other means used to
arouse interest in the adult education
program,

Another approach to the problem
of declining enrollment has been
indicated in Bremen and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. Adult schools cooperated
with leading industries and municipal
administrations in instituting train-
ing courses for employees of these
organizations. Two hundred new
students were attracted in one town
after the school received funds from
leading manufacturers in return for ©
several tuition-free courses.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949 P

--- Page 14 ---
HREE PREVIOUSLY unpublished

notes from the United States
Government to the Soviet Union,
regarding missing German prisoners
of war, gave Russia every chance to
explain “a mystery which spells
tragedy to millions of broken homes,”
Mr, E. L. Glazier of the Civil Ad-
ministration Division, OMGUS, said
in Berlin.

The.notes, he added, were in line

“with American attempts to obtain
Russian fulfillment of her pledge to
return all German prisoners of war by
the end of last year. British, French
and US representatives in Moscow
delivered protests on Jan. 3 and,
subsequently, the chronology of at-
tempts to speed return of prisoners
from the East was published.

Estimates of German prisoners of
war not returned from Russia, based
on USSR announcements, run from
200,000 to as high as 2,000,000,

The three notes mentioned by Mr.
Glazier were dated March 9, Sept. 15,
and Sept. 23, 1948. Their disclosure
has been delayed, he said, to allow
the Soviet Union every possible
opportunity to act in good faith.

“If they could not return prisoners
as the western powens have done,”
he said, “we hoped until the last that
at least they would furnish information
which would end once and for all the

agony of suspense in countless German
homes.”

HE FIRST of the notes appealed

to the Soviet Union to furnish
lists of the dead for humanitarian
Teasons. Its text, Mr. Glazier said, was
Phrased so as to give the Soviet
Union as much leeway as possible in
Providing statistics on German dead.
This note, handed to the Soviet
government in Moscow March 9, 1948,
Stated in part:

“The Government of the United
States of America is desirous of
obtaining from the Soviet Government
death certification, or, if those are
unobtainable, duly authenticated lists
of German prisoner of war dead.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

Notes on PW’s

— — Soviets Asked to Explain Failure

“The Ministry will understand the
necessity for such information for
the maintenance of adequate civil
records in the areas of occupation.
The advantage, from the humanitarian
standpoint, of its being available is
likewise evident, The information is
no less necessary to the occupying
powers in the social and economic
planning of their zones.

“The Embassy will be grateful for
the Ministery’s consideration and
early reply in this matter.”

ORE THAN half a year later, on

Sept, 15, another note was
delivered in Moscow, asking “whether
the Ministry is yet ina position to
reply to this Embassy's Note, No. 129,
dated March 9, 1948, regarding
notification to the zonal authorities
in Germany of the deaths of German
prisoners of war."

“The answer again, commented
Mr. Glazier, “was silence.”

The third note was delivered in
Moscow under date of Sept. 23, 1948,
and said in part:

“The US Government refers to the
agreement reached by the Council of
Foreign Ministers in April 1947 for
the repatriation of German prisoners
of war.

“Since the suspension in March
1948 of meetings of the Allied Control
Council in Berlin, the American
military authorities have not been
receiving regular data regarding the
repatriation of prisoners held by tthe
other occupation powers of the kind
needed in order to make adequate
arrangements for their reception into
the American zone of occupation,

“For this reason, and on behalf of
its government as a party to this
agreement, the Embassy therefore
hopes the Ministry will be in a
position to furnish it with up-to-date
information regarding the number of
German war prisoners repatriated
from the Soviet Union, the number
still in custody and the monthly rate
of repatriation scheduled between now
and the end of December, when all

11

such prisoners will presumably have
been returned to Germany.”

OW,: concluded the OMGUS

official, “the Russian propaganda
press belatedly tries to blur written
history, Fantastic countercharges
against the West come a little late
to reasure German families whose |
missing sons and fathers prove how
the Soviet respects its agreements.”

Commenting on the US note
delivered to the Soviet Foreign Office
in Moscow on Jan. 3. regarding
prisoners of war, US Military Govern-
ment Officials in Berlin pointed out
that Soviet representatives pledged
repeatedly at quadripartite meetings
that all prisoners held within Russian
territory would be returned to
Germany by Dec. 31, 1948.

“Failure to return all German
prisoners of war by the end of 1948,"
said a spokesman of the Office of
Political Affairs, “is another violation
by the USSR of an_ international
commitment. The failure not only
prevents resumption of civilian life
by German prisoners taken in a war
which ended over three and one-half

years ago, but robs the German
economy of these men's useful
production,

“Again officials of the German
Communist Party, such as Otto
Grotewohl, co-chairman _ cf the

Socialist Unity Party in the Soviet
Zone, Emil Carlebach (dismissed
licensee of the Frankfurter Rund-
schau) and others who promised the
punctual return of the remaining
German prisoners of war a number
of times during the past years, have
turned out to be false prophets,

“It should be pointed out also that
this Soviet reluctance to repatriate
PW's punctually extends to Austrian,
Italian and Japanese prisoners of war
as well.”

EANWHILE officials of the
OMGUS Civil Administration
Division cited chapter and verse of
Soviet promises that all German
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
prisoners would be home by the end
of last year.

On working committee, intermediate
and highest levels of the four-power
Allied Control Authority, Prisoners of
War and Displaced Persons officials
recalled, the Soviet volunteered and
reaffirmed its pledge. A chronology
of events follows:

April 23, 1947—Council of Foreign
Ministers at Moscow agrees that all
Germans prisoners of war will be
returned to Germany by Dec, 31, 1948.
As a corollary, CFM agrees that
Allied Control] Authority will plan
details of implementation,

May 16, 1947—US submits its plan
of implementation in Allied ‘Control
Council in Berlin. (The US offered a
detailed plan of monthly quotas,
designed to promote a constant flow
of returning prisoners of war, to be
completed within the Dec. 31, 1948
deadline.)

Nov. 28, 1947—Soviet General
Dratvin in Allied Coordinating Com-
mittee, Berlin, discussed number of
prisoners returned by Soviet to date
and promises that all will have been
returned to Germany by Dec, 31,
1948,

Aug. 31, 1947—In Combined Services
Directorate of Allied Control
Authority, Berlin, Soviet Major Ge-
neral Barinov refers to Russian figures
on returning prisoners of war, says it
is not necessary to have any other
“plan.”

Dec. 30, 1947—Soviet General
Dratvin, again in Coordinating Com-
mittee meeting, states intention of
USSR to carry out exactly the
instructions of the fourth session of
the Council of Foreign Ministers. He
affirms that all prisoners under Soviet
control now outside Germany will
be repatriated by required date.

Jan, 20, 1948—Control
removes discussion of returning
prisoners from its agenda. Soviet
Marshal Sokolovsky states _ that
Soviet delegation will meet Dec. 31,
1948 deadline set for return of all
prisoners of war. He adds that im-
portant aspect is not how many
prisoners are returned per month
(other Allies had requested figures),
but that all should be repatriated.
Concluding, he affirms again Soviet
intention to abide by Dec. 31 date.

Council

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Members of the Coopers Guild, one
of the oldest craft guilds in Bavaria,
staged their traditional dance during
the past month in the public squares
of Munich. The Schaeffler dance, per-
formed by 40 red-coated members of
the barrel-makers guild, dates back to
1564 when it was given to commem-
orate the end of a plague which had
befallen the citizens of Munich.
Ordinarily the event is held every
seven years, However, this year is
the first time it has been presented

since 1935 because public dancing had
been prohibited. (photo from PIO OMGB)

OMGUS officials said the Soviet
record proves that the USSR while
refusing to concur with the other
Allies on any specific plan of im-
plementation, repeatedly “volunteer-
ed, affirmed and reaffirmed” the
promise of the USSR to return all
prisoners by the end of 1948,

Wide differences exist in the
estimates of the numbers of PW’'s
originally held by the Soviet Union
at the end of the war, an OMGUS
official said.

Even accepting the validity of a
figure of 890,532 German war prisoners
in Russia in March 1947 (an official
figure supplied by Soviet Foreign
Minister Molotow), and crediting
subsequent Russian reports as ac-
curate, he said, there remain an
estimated 253,000 prisoners still to
be returned from the USSR. +END

12

Customs Committee
Set Up for 3 Zones

The Bipartite Control Office has
announced the setting up in Frankfurt
of a committee of German customs
experts—comprising two  représent-
atives from the Bizone and one from
the French Zone—empowered to con-

sider the uniform application of
customs laws, ordinances and re-
gulations throughout the Trizonal

Area and to submit agreed recom-
mendations to a Tripartite Customs
Liaison Committee.

The members of the latter com-
mittee, representing the UK, US and
French Military Governments, will,
where appropriate, obtain implement-
ation through their respective Mili-
tary Governments.

The formation of these committees
is a development in protracted efforts
to resolve the complexities of
customs administration in the western
zones of Germany.

Legislation to achieve unification
of customs procedure in the Bizone
was adopted last December by the
Bizonal Economic Council. Certain
amendments to the Ordinance were
proposed by Military Government
and emplementation is pending by
the Economic Council.

Customs regulations throughout the
British Zone have in the past been
issued by a central customs office.
In the US Zone the issuance of such
regulations was within the competence
of individual states,

Bizonal officials are at present pre-
paring, at the request of Military
Government, a list of specified com-
modities which will not be subject to
customs tariffs. The exempted items
will in general comprise those clas-
sified as Category A (imports for the
prevention of disease and unrest)
paid for out of US and UK funds.
Commercial imports not included in
the specified list would be subject to
the normal customs tariff.

Ammunition for German Police

For the first time in the history of
the occupation, German police have
been authorized to procure ammu-
nition, Previously ammunition for
the German police had been provided
by the occupation powers.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 16 ---
Open Forum Survey

— — Bavarians Warming Up to Idea

AVARIANS have _sparticipated

enthusiastically in town meetings
and open forums sponsored by Mili-
tary Government but the grass roots
democracy they symbolize still is
shaky, a survey of Military Govern-
ment field operations disclosed in
Munich. :

Some 500 such meetings, with a
total attendance of 65,000 persons,
were held in Bavaria between Dec. 1
to 15. MG field officers reported that
despite this enthusiastic response “the
people generally still depend upon
Military Government or German local
officials to organize and conduct these
meetings.”

Many of the meetings were purely
discussion groups or open forums for
informational purposes. But a larger
number were organized along “New
England” lines, in which citizens
were encouraged to request public
accounting of local officials’ activities
and pass resolutions to start com-
munity projects.

Usually the assemblies attracted
large portions of the population of
small villages to the largest available
tavern or meeting hall. The local
mayor usually acted as chairman, and
a panel consisting of a county offi-
cial or two, visiting experts and a
MG officer opened the meeting with
short lectures on current problems.
Then the meeting was opened to
questions from the floor and recom-
Mendations from the townspeople.

OST MG officers reported that
the citizens were shy at first in
taking the floor during the open
Sessions, but gradually warmed up to
a lively discussion after an hour or
So. In many cases, the audience voted
to hold such meetings monthly.
Although the public gatherings
Were still too new to produce con-
Crete results in all cases, several MG
Officers reported indications of new
Community spirit. In Altenstein, Ebern
County, plans were recently consum-
Mated in a town meetings to lay a
New water pipeline, a project which

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

had been under consideration for
10 years.

In Hoefen in the same area, the
people voted in a town meeting to
start a subscription campaign for a
new church.

At a meeting in Eyrichshof near
Coburg, villagers settled a dispute as
to who was responsible for repair of
a road to the next village by agree-
ing to “pitch in” and repair it them-
selves.

In a town meeting at Bad Heilbrunn
in southern Bavaria, villagers agreed
to plans to build 30 houses for
refugees in order that hotels they
now occupied could be opened for
tourist trade.

At Marzall, in the Berchtesgaden
area, villagers in a recent assembly
drafted a petition to the Bavarian
government requesting the removal
of an unpopular mayor.

MEETING at Neustadt, Coburg

county, produced a petition to
the legislature, requesting the mem-
bers to resign as not being repre-
sentative of the people.

MGO’'s also reported the develop-
ment of a new attitude of the people
towards local officials in towns where
such meetings had been held.

Mr. John Onier, MG officer for
Wunsiedel, said that “local officials
are generally more alert and respon-
sive to the will of the people” while
the villagers themselves are gaining
a new conception of their leaders as
“servants of the people.” Reporting
on meetings held in ten villages in
his area, Mr. Onier added that town
meetings had been very popular with
the people, although some officials
reacted unfavorably where criticisms
of their activities had been sharp.

Through some 10 town meetings in
Wasserburg county held thus far, the
people were “not only gaining con-
fidence in the Landrat (county
administrator), but were also coming
to believe that public opinion carries
weight," Capt. Lennis Jones, local
MGO, reported.

13

OT ALL town meetings and public

forums have been successful
however. In several cases the
assemblies turned into mere “gripe
sessions” against Military Govern-
ment as the people failed to under-
stand the benefits of objective
criticism or community action. In
other cases, the incompetence of local
officials to conduct such meetings or
their opposition to answering question
from the people, had resulted in
apathetic assemblies.

Capt. R. W. Anderson, MG officer
at Fuessen, said that the Landrat there
had intimidated villagers in meetings
by his overbearing attitude. He added
that one town hall session in Fuessen
had produced no questions on housing,
although this was one of the most
controversial questions among local
residents. Later several citizens in-
formed him that they were afraid to
speak up for fear of retaliatory
measures by local housing authorities.

In the Starnberg area, Military
Government sponsored elections of
local committees to conduct town
meetings. In Herrsching, according to
the Starnberg MG report, the mayor
intimidated the people so that they
voted against the project. At Hoch-
stadt the people turned down the
idea, with an announcement that they
already had “close enough contact
with local official.” In several other
villages the idea was enthusiastically
adopted and committees set up.

At Eichstaedt, recently a village
meeting was called to discuss the
establishment of a new butcher shop,
but the people were afraid to express
their oponion for fear of later retali-
ation by town officials, the local MG
detachment reported.

The consensus of MG field reports
showed that the people responded
enthusiastically to the town meeting
sessions where local officials en-
couraged their interest, but that they
yet failed to grasp the opportunities
for developing community projects
or joint action by citizens committees
to solve local problems. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT predends |
 COWALT minty:

German children study sign in Munich advertising
showing of “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.”

Film Thrills Munich Children

More than 12,000 Munich children and 2,000 refugee
children saw Walt Disney's “Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs“ at special Christmas holiday showings arranged
by Mr. Murray D, Van Wagoner, state director of OMG
Bavaria. .

Tickets for six showings of the film were distributed
by Catholic, Protestant and Jewish welfare agencies and
organizations sponsoring orphanages and
children's institutions. An additional showing was made
for the refugee children, There was no charge for the
children.

various

Mr. Disney granted permission to have the film shown
in Munich in response to a personal telegram from Mr.
Van Wagoner, asking that the picture be released for
the benefit of less fortunate children during the holidays.
Disney's “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs“ had never
before been publicly shown in Germany.

Before the initial showing of the American cartoon film
classic, a member of the Orphan Boys’ chair of the Boys’
International thanked the state director on behalf of the
children of Munich and asked that their gratitude be

Boys’ orphanage choir sings “ Whistle While You Work"
as Mr. Van Wagoner (second from left) looks on.

A study in moods. These German children appear
to be fascinated by the Walt Disney cartoon.

conveyed to Mr. Disney. The choir sang “Whistle While
You Works,” a tune from the picture. _ (photos from PIO OMGB)

School Meals Free

Lunches under the Bavarian school
feeding program for which there has
been a 12-pfennig (11 cents) charge,
soon will become free, the Food,
Agriculture and Forestry Division,
OMG Bavaria, has announced.

More than 870,000 school chitdren
in Bavaria presently receive a 350-
calory meal five days a week.

A BICO food and agriculture deci-
sion that the United States and Great
Britain would contribute food for the
school feeding program without
charge, provided that state govern-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ment furnished administration funds,
made the free lunches possible.

The program will cost the United
States and Great Britain more than
$6,000,000 a year. The Bavarian
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Forestry is arranging for the ad-
ministrative costs of the program.

Record Rail Traffic
As a result of increased passenger
traffic during the Christmas holidays,
a new record in Reichsbahn passenger
receipts for a 10-day period since the
introduction of currency reform in

14

June 1948 was established. Est'mated’ —
passenger receipts for the period De-
cember 21-31, 1948, were DM 40,500,000
or approximately DM 6,000,000 higher
than for any similar period since
reform,

Tax on Tea Approved
Bizonal Economic Council Ordi-
nance No, 82, which is designed. to
increase revenues by imposing an
excise tax of DM15 per 2.2 pounds
on tea, in addition to the import duty,
has been approved by the Bipartite
Board.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949.

--- Page 18 ---
Bavaria’s Vaecationland

AVARIA is not the creator of
many of its wonders, it is only
the salesman.

With this theme, the Joint Export-
Import Agency has prompted the
Bavarians to attract tourists, vacation-
ists and pleasure-seekers from foreign
Jands to southern Germany to enjoy
its scenery, climate, spas and
traditions.

There is no philanthropy in JEIA's
endeavor. It is a straight business pro-
position ‘to assist Bavarians in bring-
ing revenue into their dollar-short
economy by cashing in on their own
natural resources and to save the
American taxpayer from taking money
out of his own pocket to make up
Germany's cash deficit.

OURISM, as an “invisible export,"

has a_ potential of a $40,000,000
business for Bavaria—an important
contribution to the revival and self-
support of a democratic and peace-
loving Germany, But the "import" of
tourists, who are willing to spend
their dollars to see the Bavarian
sights, has the advantage over the
import of industrial materials in that
tourism brings in dollars without
losing its basic “materials''"—scenery,
climate, spas and traditions,

Nature has provided Bavaria with
mountains, plains, valleys, lakes,

tivers and mineral springs. History

(Goetz) _

Rothenburg — 300-year-old ceremony

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

— — Opening of Postwar Tourist Trade

has added walled cities, churches,
castles, trade routes and relics of past
strife. Traditions and customs have
contributed the centuries-old pa-
geantry, religious shrines, decorative
buildings, colorful houses and the
Bavarian way of living. From the
modern age have come the network
of super-highways called the Auto-
bahn, many industries, handicrafts,
transportation, hotel accomodations—
and the wreckage of war.

T IS AN obligation of the Ameri-

cans, as well as of the other oc-
cupying powers, after the complete
collapse of the enemy's government
and devastated destruction of the
enemy's economy, to prevent unrest,
starvation and undemocraticism and
to nurture the occupied country back
to self-support and respect among
nations, Food, clothing, medicines,
essential goods and raw materials
must be paid with hard cash, and as
Germany has had no money of value
for international exchange, the oc-
cupying power must foot the bill.

Tourism is one method by which
Germany can lighten the burden on
the United States. Less than four
years after the end of the war,
Bavaria is ready to receive and ca-
commodate visitors from other lands.
It now has the hotels, transportation,

Riessersee — near Garmisch

15

i; (Information Bulletin)

food and other necessities to enter-
tain a least 35,000 visitors at any one
time.

The Germans run all the operations,
but is has been the Joint Export-
Import Agency which has made all
this possible. This French-Anglo-
American MG organization has licens-
ed the hotels and taxicabs, arranged
for obtaining the special foods, and
assisted in establishing the procedure
by which a prospective tourist can
arrange entry and accomodations in
Bavaria.

AVARIA comprises an area of

about 27,000 square miles, contain-
ing the northern rocky, snow-capped
fringe of the Alps, the broad rolling
tableland of small farms and pastures,
the great tracks of slately pine forests,
the slow, twisting Danube (Donau)
River with its Lech, Isar and Inn
tributaries; scores of picturesque
lakes and a comfortable climate the
year around,

The oldest and third largest city is
Augsburg which dates back to 14 B.C,
when it was known as Augusta
Vindelicorum on the main Roman
trading and military route during the
300-year Roman occupation of Bavaria.
Regensburg was also known as Castra
Regina during this Roman occupation.
Munich (Miinchen), its capital and

(Continued on next page)

(Huhle)
Tegernsee — Bavarian hospitality

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Munich — Muenchener Kindl

largest city, is a seat of industry,
culture and administration. Nunrem-
berg (Nurnberg) is the second largest
and Wuerzburg, in the northwestern
part of the state, follows Regensburg
in size.

Bavaria's most famous traditional
event is the Passion Play commemo-
rating every ten years at Oberammer-
gau the vow made in 1633 to end the
plague raging among the villagers.
Given last during the 300th jubilee
year of 1934, it will be presented
again in 1950. A practice play, one in
the series of tryouts and rehearsals,
will be given in the small theater of
the village this summer.

Dinkelsbuehl, double-walled town
north of Augsburg, commemorates an-
nually on the third weekend in July,
its children who in 1632 marched out
the village gate to meet an invading
army and by their pleas and singing
won the compassion of the enemy
general for the town. Rothenburg pre-

Nuremberg-Fuerth — Toys

sents a pageant on Whit-Monday each
year to commemorate the event in the
Thirty Year's War when the mayor
drank in a single draught three quarts
of wine from a tankard to save the
town from burning and the councilors
from execution.

ACH BAVARIAN community has
its attractions and points of
interest.

Some commemorate historical or
traditional events as at Oberammer-
gau, Dinkelsbuehl and Rothenburg.

Some have great religious edifices
as the Cathedral of the Virgin (Frauen-
kirche) in Munich, and revered shrines
as the one in Altoetting.

Some have the castles as those of
Ludwig II at Linderhof, on the island
in Koenigssee and at Chiemsee, or the
Fortress of Marienburg at Wuerzburg.

Some are resorts as at Garmisch-
Partenkirchen or Tegernsee, or the
year-round skiing on the Zugspitze.

(Heute/Rosenberg)

(Information Bulletin)
Oberammergau — Practice play

Some are noted for their handi-
craft, as Mittenwald for violins, Selb-
for porcelain, Nuremberg for toys,
Schongau for wood-carving.

Some are spas, as Bad Kissingen,
Bad: Toelz and Bad Mergentheim,

Some are noted for their beauty, as
Passau, described as one of the four
most attractive cities in the world.

Some have special cultural achieve-
ments, as the music festivals at Bay-
reuth and the famed boys’ choir at
Regensburg.

Even the last war has left its mark,
as the ruins of Obersalzberg near
Berchtesgaden, the so-called “Ameri-
can organ" in the monastery at Ettal
and the setting of the war crimes
trials at Nuremberg and Dachau,

Majestic beauty is ever-present
along the Alpine Scenic Highway
(Queralpenstrasse) in southeastern

Bavaria between Siegsdorf and Berch-
tesgaden.

(Goetz)
Dinkelsbuehl — Town councilors

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Kurverein)

Bad Kissingen — Health resort

16

(DENA)
Bamberg — Festival play

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 20 ---
(Heute/Betzler)

Mittenwald — Violin-making

Outstanding festivals, pageants and
special activities scheduled this year
include:

Augsburg — Week-long commemora-
tion of German poet Goethe (date
to be set later).

Bamberg — Part II of Goethe's play
“Faust" and the play “Iphigenie auf

Tauris,” July; Bach concerts,
August.
Berchtesgaden — Special slalom ski

races, March 27 and May 8; annual
meeting of Berchtesgaden Native
Costume Association, May 22.

Dinkelsbueh] — Children’s Thanksgiv-
ing Festival, July 17 — 20.

Immenstadt — Aligaeu musical festi-
vals, June 5 and 6.

Kempten — Exhibitions of local art-
ists, Aug. 21—Sept. 4; trademan's
union conference and industrial ex-
hibition (date to be set later).

Bad Kissingen — German dancing
teachers’ contest, March 15; con-
certs every morning and afternoon

(Goetz)

Regensburg — Boys’ choir

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

Ettal — “American” organ

with conductors and every Thurs-
day by Bamberger Symphonikers
throughout summer.

Landsberg — Art exhibition comme-
morating birth of Sir Hubert v. Her-
kommer, noted artist, in Landsberg,

May 26.

Munich — Artist exhibition, July
15 — 30; Bavarian Agricultural
Show, September; Octoberwiese
(carnival), Sept. 15 — 30.

Nuremberg — Part I of Goethe's

“Faust,” April 15; Part II, April 16;
premiere of Robert Stolz’s operetta
“Fest in Casablanca,” March,

Oberammergau — Rehearsal play for
1950 Passion Play, June to August;
Rehearsal of Matthaeus Play with
Munich Philharmonic orchestra and
choir, August and September.

Passau — Spring industrial fair, March
28 — May 15.

Rothenburg — Plays by Hans Sachs,
play “Meistertrunk" and Shepherd
dance, June 5 and 6.

 (Schoedl)

Linderhof — Ludwig's castle

17

(Goetz)

(Goetz)
Augsburg — Tourist facilities

HE POSSIBILITIES of Bavaria as

a tourist and vacation attraction
were exhibited for the first time
since the war on a six-day tour for
American, British, French and Czecho-
slovakian correspondents during the
Christmas holidays under the auspices
of the Export Taxi Service and the
Foreign Tourist Hotels, two German
state-wide associations, with the guid-
ance of the Bavaria Foreign Trade
Division of JEIA,

Pointing out that the tourist busi-
ness provided an income of about
$40,000,000 during the Olympic Games
year of 1936, Mr. Paul S. Nevin,
JEIA’'s director in Bavaria, told the
group that this income can again be
obtained. The taxi poo] has a fleet
of 850 cabs in operation in Bavaria
and has produced about $1,500,000 in
revenue since Apri] 1948. There were
82 hotels and 18 restaurants licensed

(Continued on next page)

(Byers)
Altoetting — Religious shrine

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
(Information Bulletin)

Zugspitze — Cable car

by JEIA and about 15 more were
added in January.

Also in describing the possibilities
of tourism State Secretary Hugo Gei-
ger, who represented Bavarian Min-
ister President Hans Ehard on -the
trip, declared that 35,000 rooms are
now available for the tourists visit-
ing the state.

The tour ended with a New Year's
Eve party at the Haus der Kunst
(House of Art) in Munich when from
among ten finalists, Miss Eva Gio-
vanelli, a 19-year-old brunette from
Tegernsee, was selected as the repre-
sentative of the Bavarian tourist trade.
Miss Giovanelli is a dental assistant,
training to be a dental technician, but
She will represent the three western
zones of Germany at the German Ex-
port Fair in New York in April.

RAVEL under regulations and su-
pervision of the US occupation
authorities; however, JEIA has worked
out a satisfactory arrangement for

Garmisch —

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Ice show featuring former Olympic champions

(Hubmann)

Walchensee — Bavarian Alps

foreign tourists to visit Bavaria. The
visiting tourists are accommodated in
German facilities and are not eligible
for US Army facilities provided occu-
pational personnel.

An American, desiring to visit Ger-
many, applies to the US State Depart-
ment for his passport and other ne-
cessary papers in the customary man-
ner. On obtaining these, he visits
any travel agency or commercial line
in the United States competent to
handle European travel arrangements.
Two American trans-Atlantic air-
lines have stops in Germany.

There the prospective tourist
schedules his tour inside Germany,
and on payment of dollars arranges
Prepaid accommodations in JEIA-

All photos, with credit to photo-

grapher or source, are furnished

by JEIA/Bavaria or taken from
Information Bulletin files.

.
an

(Baiers)

18

(occwc)
Nuremberg — Palace of Justice

licensed hotels. For his spending in
Germany he buys JEIA coupon marks
based on the official rate of one mark
for 30 cents, His receipt along with
his passport is presented to the US De-
partment of the Army for the reg-
istration of the Military Entry-Exit
Permit. The coupon marks provide
an agreed payment in German marks
to the German providing the accom-
modations and a sizeable balance iin
dollars to the credit of German ex-
ports.
HE PROSPECTIVE tourist then is
eligible to start his trip to Ger-
many in accordance with his travel
schedule, He must abide by German
customs and US occupational regu-
lations, such as prohibitions on pos-
sessing foreign currencies, Informa-
tion on these restrictions can be ob-
tained from the travel agencies.
Foreign visitors to Bavaria may join
scheduled conducted tours which in-

(Continued on page 30)

“ (DENA) _

Bayreuth — Giving lucky peany at festival play

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 22 ---
Ge rmany’s New

N THEIR TASK of eliminating the

Nazi propaganda newspapers and
reshaping the German press, Mil-
itary Government officials from war's
end to the present time have set
themselves a long-range goal: to
establish a sturdy, demoratically-
functioning press that can hold its
own when the occupation ends.

This concept meant a slow be-
ginning. Untrained, non-Nazi news-
men had to learn the difference
between a news story and an edi-
torial, Journalists needed to under-
stand what it meant to be independent
of political party support and to
shoulder responsibility themselves for
what they printed.

The learning process has been grad-
ual, Occasionally it has seemed that
some publishers and editors, taking
out political “insurance” for the fu-
ture, have slanted news or have
given less play to Military Govern-
ment and American news than was
warranted. The Director of Informa-
tion Services Division called attention
fo this situation in December 1948
when he told the newspaper publi-
shers: "I suggest that, in the editorial
evaluation of news, the mere fact of
the occupation in this specific zone
Should not be counted as a factor
which will give the occupier less con-
sideration than is given to others.
There are other ways of demonstrat-
ing your independence."

This article is prepared from
the "German Press in the US
Occupied Area 1945—1948," a
Special report of the Military
Governor, and additional material
furnished by the | Information
Services Division, OMGUS. Cop-
les of the special report may
be obtained by adressing the
request to Reports & Statistics
Branch, Control Office, Office of
Military Government for Germany
(US), APO 742, US Army.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

Press

— — Review of Development in US Zone

UT THE ADVANTAGES of bring-

ing journalistic endeavors in
Germany into line with long-estab-
lished American policies with re-
spect to freedom of expression, free
access to information, and free ex-
change of opinions and ideas out-
weighed the disadvantages even in
occupied Germany. The most obvious
advantage was that editors and pub-
lishers, who insisted upon their right
to run independent, objective and
outspoken newspapers under an oc-
cupation, perhaps could be counted
on the withstand pressure from Ger-
man governmental, political, eco-
nomic and clerical groups when the
occupation was relaxed or ended.

Many German newsmen have
worked to print accurate information
and have urged persons in public
positions to take a liberal attitude
toward giving out news. It has not al-
ways been easy to convince German
politicians and governmental of-
ficials that they must give impartial
information about their work.

Before the occupation all news-
papers and news agencies had been
controlled by government and polit-
icians. It has been a source of
constant annoyance to public figures

to find that no newspaper today is
always on “their side,” right or
wrong. Perhaps the best proofs of the
independence of the German press
today are the sharp, bitter attacks it
receives from German politicians and
governmental officials and their in-
sistent demands for a political party
press.

Attempts have been made in the
various states to institute a form of
press censorship by setting up govern-
mental press bureaus and channeling
all governmental news through them.
The right of the press to comment
upon pending legislation was even
challenged at one time.

ILITARY GOVERMENT has sup-

ported the right of the press
and German public to full and free
information in the affairs of govern-
ment. The Military Governor stated
in a letter to the director of OMGWB
in March 1948:

“The German newspapers were
established and supported and given
an extraordinary measure of freedom
and responsibility because we believe
that there should be a free flow of
news and information to the people
of Germany, particularly on matters

(Continued on next page)

Frankfurter Rundschau (Frankfurt Review) was the first postwar German-
operated newspaper licensed in the US Zone. It is now a daily with a
circulation of nearly 200,000.

19

(US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
connected with the building of demo-
cratic government. If the newspapers
of the US Zone fail to carry out what
is a major task of any newspaper
and fail to report fully on what their
governments are doing, as well as
what their governments are not
doing, they cease to be quasi-public
institutions and betray their trust.

“This is a two-way process, though,
and I have been disturbed at various
times by the failure of German govern-
mental officials to understand that the
people of Germany have a right to
know what they are planning, what
they are doing, and what they are
failing to plan or do. At various
times, German governmental officials
have attempted to channel news of
government through a press bureau
censorship; government officials have
failed to hold press conferences and
meet the press frankly and freely,
and have resented criticism which is
the normal lot of office-holders in
any democracy.”

N ORDER TO prevent the licensed
press from falling into the hands

of political, financial or other special
interests, Military Government restrict-
ed licensing to individual Germans
and banned the holding of a financial

* *K *

interest in the paper by persons or
groups other than the licensees them-
selves. Because Military Government
wanted newspapers to be independent
of special groups and because of a
shortage of newsprint, printing facil-
ities and supplies, the licensing of
political party newspapers is not
allowed—at least not until an in-
dependent press is firmly established
and the German economy achieves
sufficient production of newsprint and
printing equipment.

Although a system of pre-publication
censorship for a trial period was
planned, this idea was abandoned in
favor of the MG licensing program
which began with the establishment
of the Frankfurter Rundschau on
July 31, 1945. While advice and train-
ing was given by press officers of
Military Government, German pub-
lishers and editors were made solely
responsible for the content of their
newspapers. Close post-publication
scrutiny was instituted, followed by

verbal and written warnings, cor-
rections, reprimands and commen-
dations.

There are now 56 licensed news-
papers in the US Zone and Berlin,
with a combined circulation of

* * *

4,468,550. There are competing news-
papers in seven cities. The 56 news-
papers own and operate cooperatively
the licensed news agency DENA
(Deutsche Nachrichten Agentur) which
has an incoming file of some 130,000
words daily and an outgoing news file
of 30,000 words daily; a weekly feature
file of 30,000 words, and a photo
service. Only one of the original US
army newspapers remains, Die Neue
Zeitung, still being published by Mi-
litary Government in Munich as an
official MG zonal newspaper, with
a daily edition printed in Berlin.

ILITARY GOVERNMENT has

offered to abandon its present
licensing system when the state laws
are passed to protect the independ-
ence of the press. So far, only Bre-
men has passed such a law, now being
studied by Military Government.
Until such legislation is passed and
approved, newspapers must continue
to follow the licensing system.

In the case of the cooperative news
agency, DENA, which serves 107 news-
papers and magazines, six radio sta-
tions, four German and foreign news
agencies, and 26 other clients, Mil-
itary Government has insisted that it
maintain its objectivity and independ-

* * x

US-Licensed Newspapers in US Occupied Areas as of Dec. 31, 1948

ISSUES CIRCU- ISSUES © CIRCU-
CITY NAME OF PAPER WEEKLY LATION | CITY NAME OF PAPER WEEKLY LATION
Bavaria Fulda Fuldaer Volkszeitung 6 58,700
Ansbach Fraenkische Landeszeitung 3 67,810 | Giessen Giessener Freie Presse 6 34,500
Aschaffenburg Main Echo 3 64,144 | Kassel Hessische Nachrichten 6 134,008
Augsburg Augsburger Tagespost 3 40,937 Kasseler Zeitung 6 49,800
. Schwaebische Landeszeitung 3 135,710 | Korbach Waldecker Kurier 4 13,600
Bamberg Fraenkischer Taq 3 67,959 | Marburg Marburger Presse 6 34 800
Bayreuth Fraenkische Presse 3 45,324 | Offenbach Offenbach Post 6 40,900
Coburg Neue Presse 3 51,988 | Wetzlar Wetzlarer Neue Zeitung 6 48,933
Garmisch- Wiesbaden Wiesbadener Kurier 6 73.050
Partenkirchen — Hochlandbote 3 51,226 ‘WIZ am Abend 6 25,000
Hof Frankenpost 3 77,917 | Wuerttemberg-
Ingolstadt Donau Kurier 3 59,304 Baden
Kempten Der Allgaeuer 3 75,428 | Aalen Schwaebische Post 6 38,900
Landshut Isar Post 3 60,608 | Goeppingen Neue Wuerttembergische Zeitung 6 51,000
Munich Die Abendzeitung 6 42,385 | Heidelberg Rhein-Neckar Zeitung 4 99,269
Muenchner Merkur 3 165,796 | Heidenheim Heidenheimer Zeitung 4 16,800
Sueddeutsche Zeitung 3 239,055 | Heilbronn Heilbronner Stimme 6 58,890
Nuremberg Nuernberger Nachrichten 3 193,736 | Karlsruhe Badische Neueste Nachrichten 5 95,000
Passau Passauer Neue Presse 3 98,650 | Mannheim Der Mannheimer Morgen 4 87,503
Regensburg Mittelbaverische Zeitung 3 104,391 | Pforzheim Sueddeutsche Allgemeine 5 36,800
Bad Reichenhall  Suedost Kurier 3 45.203 | Schwaebisch-Hall “Wuerttembergisches Zeit Echo 4 38,500
Rosenheim Oberbaverische Volksblatt 3 48,450 | Stuttgart Stuttgarter Nachrichten 4 142,150
Schweinfurt Der Volkswille 3 61 398 Stuttgarter Zeitung 3 165 639
Straubing Niederbayerische Nachrichten 3 33,185 | Tauberbischofsheim Fraenkische Nachrichten 5 31,619
Weiden Der Neue Tag 3 63.649 | Ulm Schwaebische Donau Zeitung 6 53,808 *
‘Wuerzburg Main Post 3 95,825
Hesse Berlin Der Tagesspiegel 6 247,000
Darmstadt Darmstaedter Echo 6 77,650 | Borin Der Abend 6 110,000
Eschwege Werra Rundschau 6 13,514 ‘
Frankfurt Abendpost 6 26,100 | Bremen
Frankfurter Neue Presse 6 170,860 | Bremen ‘Weser Kurier 4 128,342
Frankfurter Rundschau 6 195,900 | Bremerhaven Nordsee Zeitung 4 79,122

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 24 ---
ence to an even greater extent than
the newspapers. For this reason, the
newspaper publisher-owners of DENA
have been supported in their efforts
to prevent the Deutsche Post from
taking over the Hellschreiber com-
munications system and in their op-
position to the Deutsche Post claim to
a monopoly in the field of news broad-
casting.

(Hellschreiber is a system of news
dissemination by radio broadcast,
which is received on a special tape in
a teleprinter which translates the
radio impulses into wordage, in a
manner similiar to a teleprinter which
receives and types wire messages.)

DENA, which grew out of the Allied
and later American news agency serv-
ing army papers, was licensed as a
cooperative to the licensed publishers
of the US occupied areas Oct. 25, 1946.
Although Military Government press
control officers had helped to found
DENA, and had supervised its output
during the first 15 months of its exist-
ence a policy of post-transmission
scrutiny was established and respon-
sibility was placed on the German
management of DENA for the content
of the news file. Military Government
press officers remained at DENA to
observe and guide its operation until
July 1948, when the Press Section staff
was reduced to one press officer, and
his functions changed to those of ob-
servation, liaison, and assistance in
training the German staff in news
agency techniques.

IHE MAJORITY of the German

newspaper publisher-owners of
DENA recognize that the news agency
must remain independent of political
domination and that the news and
feature files must be objective and
factual. One evidence of this is that
in discussions for a merger of the
British Zone news agency, DPD
(Deutscher Presse Dienst), and DENA,
the DENA representatives refused to
entertain proposals that the Hell-
Schreiber be turned over to the
Deutsche Post and that the merged
agency accept financial assistance
from German government and become
@ ‘semi-official governmental news
agency, Military Government has
Stated that the question of the merger
is one for determination by the Ger-

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

mans, subject to MG approval of any
agreement reached.

Control of German press operations
have been progressively relaxed
throughout the past three and a half
years. Pre-publication scrutiny of
papers and pre-transmission scrutiny
of the DENA news file, although
planned, were never put into effect.
With the licensing of DENA,
strictions on news sources were also
lifted; German newspapers were per-
mitted to use other world news
agencies,

re-

'ULL RESPONSIBILITY for the

content of the US-licensed papers
was placed upon the licensees. Within
the limits of general ACA and Mi-
litary Government legislation and di-
rectives, they were free to exercise
their editorial judgment. All efforts
to increase the number of news
sources by permitting entrance of
foreign news agencies and publicat-
ions into Germany were encouraged
and approved. All major news agenc-

Druckhaus Tempelhof,

eight-story building with a

ies of the United States, Great Bri-
tain, and France, as well as others
from Switzerland and other European
countries, are now dealing directly or
through DENA with the newspapers.
The only restrictions are on disposal
of the mark earnings of the foreign
news agencies in Germany. Controls
have been lifted on the amount of
advertising space, of pages permitted
per week, frequency per week and
circulation.

This was a result of the derationing
of newsprint which made the procure-

(Continued on next page)

tower of five

additional floors located about a mile south of Tempelhof Airport,
contains the editorial and business offices and printing facilities of the
US-licensed dailies in Berlin, the Tagesspiegel and \Der Abend, The
Berlin edition of MG-published Die Neue Zeitung is also printed here.

21

(PIO OMGUS photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
ment of newsprint the problem of the
publisher and no longer a concern of
Military Government. Until the sum-
mer of 1948, the shortage of news-
print was the determining factor in
shaping the German press. This short-
age determined the licensing pro-
gram; the make-up, size, frequency and
circulation of the papers; forced the
imposition of controls in the allocation
of paper and its use and was a key
factor in selecting licensees to run
the papers since it was necessary to
choose several licensees with varying
political points of view.

For three years most newspapers
appeared twice or three times weekly,
were restricted to 8, 12 or 14 pages
weekly, were unable to fill the de-
mand for subscriptions or for ad-
vertising, were restricted to defined
circulation areas, could dispatch only
a token circulation to other zones.
During this period, decreased news-.
print production forced two cuts in
newsprint allocation which placed the
newspapers below the bare minimum
requirements,

There are now 21 papers appearing
six times weekly, 3 five times weekly,
8 four times weekly and 24 three
times weekly. They have increased
their pages per week from an average
of 12 to 24 and sometimes more. The
result has been a welcome increase
in competition, although, for their own
protection, the newspaper publishers
have entered into voluntary agree-
ments to prevent chaotic newsprint
procurement. All papers plan eventu-
ally to become dailies, with no issue
on Monday or the day after important
holidays.

TILL IN the process of being

ironed out is the question of the
extent to which newspaper licensees
could be protected in their possession
of newspaper printing plants which
were seized at the end of hostilities,
put under MG property control and
then turned over to newspaper li-
censees for their use at a rental fee.

Most if not all of the newspaper
licensees of the new German press
were not the owners of the plants in
which their papers are published.
Also they were unable during the
Nazi regime to save enough money

INFORMATION BULLETIN

to invest in the needed facilities,
assuming that these, in view of the
ruined German economy, would have
been readily available after the war.

Former Nazi owners of printing
plants, hoping for eventual clearance
under denazification laws and waiting
for the time when they could start
their own newspapers, for the most
part refused to enter into contracts
for purchase or use of their plants.
High taxes prevented most publishers
from accumulating the capital needed.

ILITARY GOTERNMENT attempt-

ed to meet this problem in two
ways. In 1945, all newspapers were
required to pay into a special fund
20 percent of gross receipts as pay-
ment for the many services provided
by Military Government. This fund
eventually reached the total of some
RM 58,000,000, In 1947, payment into
this fund was stopped and from it
grants-in-aid were made to the news-
Papers and to a cooperative which the
publishers created for the purpose of
assisting newspapers to acquire plants
and equipment as the opportunity
offered.

Military Government on April 1,
1947 issued a directive, “Interim Pro-
cedure for the Retention by Property
Control of Certain Properties Operated
by Information Control Licensees,”
applying to property owned by former

Nazis who had been processed by
denazification tribunals or against
whom sanctions were imposed which
did not include confiscation of the
property in question. In order to en-
courage the negotiation of fairly
long term lease-contracts, since former
Nazi owners refused to negotiate such
leases. Military Government on Sept.
20, 1947 issued the directive ‘Advance
Notice of Amendment to Title 21—
Procedure for the Retention or Taking
of Property Control Custody of Cer-
tain Properties Operated or Required
for Operation by Newspaper Licensees
of the Information Control Division.”

Under this directive, property held
in property control custody was to be
released as soon as voluntary leases
had been executed between plant
owners and publishers. A number of
voluntary leases were negotiated. To
meet those cases in which the former
owner refused to negotiate, it was
provided that mandatory leases could
be imposed where it became clear that
a voluntary lease could not be
executed.

The duration of the mandatory lease
was for an initial period of five years
beginning from the date of final ap-
proval of the lease, with the provision
that if three months before expiration
it is proved to the satisfaction of
Military Government that the publi-

(Continued on page 27)

Mr. Francis E, Sheehan (center), acting director of OMG Hesse, presents
publishers’ licenses for Hesse’s newest newspaper W/Z am Abend to

Hans-Joahim (left) and Alfred Jordan in December.

22

(PIO OMGH photo) 1

FEBRUARY 8, 1949”

--- Page 26 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“- GERMAN PRES

President Truman‘s State of the
Union speach and the appointment of
Dean Acheson to succed George C.
Marshall as US Secretary of State
were top news and the most popular
(non-controversial) subjects of
editorials in the licensed German
press in early January.

Mr. Truman's call for social progress
was acclaimed as destroying Soviet
hopes for a depression in the United
States. The resignation of Secretary
Marshall was generally regretted,
while comment on his successor was
reserved.

Truman Talk Applauded

The Badische Neueste Nachrichten
(Karlsruhe, Wuerttemberg-Baden) said
President Truman’s message “breathes
the self-confidence of the chosen re-
presentative of the world’s mightiest
people," adding:

“Its content shows that the Novem-
ber election was a decisive day in
US history .. . A new social-minded
America is arising . President
Truman's plans are calculated to cut
the ground from under the ideology
of class struggle and put to shame
the Kremlin's hopes for internal con-
flict in the United States. The world’s:
greatest need today is a spiritually
and economically united America.”

Editor Karl Debus of the Mittel-
bayerische Zeitung (Regensburg, Ba-
varia) commented: “Even the
Americans realize more and more
clearly that democracy cannot be
Saved without socialism ... From
the European and German point of
View Mr, Truman's program appears
as a belated victory of social ideals
Tealized in England in the era of
Lloyd George (1906—14), and even
before that by the exemplary German
Social insurance legislation.”

The Frankfurter Neue Presse saw
President Truman as executor of
President Roosevelt's New Deal:

“This program of economic and
Social reform, temporarily interrupted
by the war and the 80th Congress,
Will now be followed through .. .
The United States remains faithful to

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

the doctrine of free enterprise, but
has turned its back on traditional
economic liberalism . . . America is
developing from a liberal into a
social democracy, in which the welfare
of the masses is regarded as more
important than the wealth of the
few."

Acheson and the Soviets

The Abendpost (Frankfurt) thought
the change in the State Department
may signify a somewhat different
course with regard to Soviet Russia:

“The fact that Marshall's colleague,
Under Secretary of State Lovett,
also resigned may indicate that the
former's illness was not the only
reason for the change. It seems that
there were, after all, fundamental
differences of opinion between the
President and the leaders of the
State Department... Truman, now
much surer of himself, realizes, with
his common sense, that the Ameri-
cans... want peace talks with the
Soviets...

“Acheson may lend the President
valuable support in this respect. As
an old New Dealer he will be ac-
ceptable to the Left and as initiator
of lend-lease during the war the
Russians will remember him favor-
ably. If the Soviets really have a
will to compromise and peace they
will find in him a willing partner.”

The Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tau-
berbischofsheim, Wuerttemberg-Ba-
den) said that while Mr. Truman has
denied that the change in the State

This section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board for the Inform-
ation Services Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
portray what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not
necessarily to give any concur-
rence to their views and opinions.

23

NY

NY

Department would mean-a new foreign
political course “it nevertheless is
very likely that he wants to see his
foreign policy in the hands of men
whose past record makes possible
another attempt at solving the East-
West tension by diplomatic means...

“Acheson is not an unknown quan-
tity. He is regarded as liberalistic...
As Germans we cannot fail to note
that French politicians greet him as
a statesman who promises to show
special understanding for French ways
of thinking. Acheson's attitude toward
Germany will become evident from
the changes which will or will not
take place in the top positions of US
Military Government.”

On another page the paper printed
a quotation from a speech Acheson
made in 1947:

“"One of the four pillars of US
policy is the reconstruction of the
two big workshops of Europe and
Asia, namely Germany and Japan.
On their reconstruction depends the
definite revival of two continents.’ “

‘Crime Against Humanity’
The Fraenkischer Tag (Bamberg)
accused the Soviets of breach of faith
for not having returned all German
Prisoners of War by the end of 1948:

“It is a crime against humanity that
a people which capitulated in May
1945 and whose territory is occupied
down to the last square inch should
still not have their PW’s returned to
them and instead should receive a
vain promise from one of the former
enemy powers—a promise in which
one can put little faith, as experience
has shown.”

Falling Prices

The Giessener Freie Presse (Giessen,
Hesse) said in an article headlined
“Public Reaction to Collapsing Prices”:

“Since currency reform the queues
before the shops have become rare...
and wherever they reappear they are
largely a sign of real bargains . . . It
is not long since those who urgently

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
needed ladies’ stockings at least
talked about paying the demanded
DM 15 ($4.50). No wonder that last
Saturday morning a long queue was
formed in front of a shop which sold
them for DM 4.50 ($1.35).”

The Nuernberger Nachrichten (Nu-
remberg, Bavaria) said conditions
are ripe for a considerable fall in
prices, if consumer exercise restraint
in buying:

“There are indications that prices
have passed their peak. There is
reason to believe that production and
supply are overhauling demand. In
1949 the Marshall Plan will really
begin to make itself felt . . . Credit
restrictions, taxes on stock in hand,
and general taxes . . . will all tend
to accelerate the movement of goods
from the producers. Thereby the
stocks of retail dealers will be
increased and demand will be faced
by a larger supply ... The day is
near when consumers will be able
to influence prices, provided they
have patience and can wait.”

Press Group Dissolved

Die Neue Zeitung (MG-published
zonal newspaper) front-paged a report
about the dissolution of the press
committee of North Rhine-Westphalia.
Members who had the right to license
new publications were said to have
issued numerous licenses to them-
selves, This was denied by Minister
President Arnold, and many papers
carried a declaration by the North

Rhine-Westphalia Journalists’ Associa- ’

tion which expressed ‘deep regret
that journalists not deserving that
name and editors who... reprinted
their irresponsible work” could injure
the reputation of a deserving institu-
tion.

The Werra-Rundschau (Eschwege,
Hesse) opposed the establishment of a
German press license system:

“How such a German License Office
would function has been demonstrated
in the British Zone... The North
Rhine-Westphalia Land Press Com-
mittee has just been abolished, be-
cause its members distributed licenses
only to themselves and their friends,
shutting out ‘undesirable’ competi-
tion.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Criticizes Hitler Articles

The Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt) published a cartoon from the
Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel, Hesse)
showing a newspaper stand placarded
with headlines, such as: “Hitler's Last
Days”, “Is Hitler Living?", “Is Hitler
Really Dead?” “I Was Never Hitler's
Sweetheart” , “Schacht: Accounting
With Hitler", “Eva Braun’s Diary”.

The cartoon also shows a customer,
who asks:

“If you please, could I have a news-
paper without Hitler?”

Two Lindbergh Photos

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
said that because Col. Charles A.
Lindbergh refused to be photographed
or interviewed during a recent visit
to Europe, it had to run an old picture
showing him in conversation with
former Field Marshal Milch.

But the Abendpost (Frankfurt) and
the Offenbach Post (Offenbach, Hesse)
printed a different Lindbergh photo,
with this comment on the picture used
by the Munich paper:

“We have found a picture which
shows Charles A, Lindbergh with a
better ‘comrade’ than the former Ger-
man Air Force general, On our snap-
shot you see the famous American
flier together with his small single-
engine plane, ‘Spirit of St. Louis,’
with which he crossed the Atlantic
from New York to Paris in May 1927.”

Bonn Progress Criticized

The Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt) wrote against “the evil spirit of
Bonn";

“The diligent observer of the
debates in the Parliamentary Council
has been increasingly amazed how
little the delegates seem to be con-
scious of the limitations of their
political task. One cannot remind
them too strongly of the origin and
function of their assembly. The Par-
liamentary Council is not the highest
German parliament No, its
members are merely delegates who
were called by the state parliaments
to compose a draft of the fundamental
law ... What, in fact, does the Ruhr

24

agreement ... have to do with the
fundamental law? . . . Nothing can
explain the behavior of these dele-
gates who were charged with editing
a text and who have begun pretend-
ing to speak for the German
people ... An evil spirit today
dominates their discussions, the spirit
of arrogance and of empty phrases.
Shall we take this as a foretaste of
the spirit of the German federal
republic to come? Woe betide us if
the German democrats don't learn
not to meddle with each others’ tasks
and offices .. . They might become
grave-diggers of German democracy.”

Declaration of Human Rights

The Stuttgarter Zeitung commented
pessimistically on the UN Declaration
of Human Rights:

“We are told that it is of historical
significance, the dawn of a new era,
which is to endow all mankind with
freedom from fear and _ distress.
Everyone is to have the right to life,
liberty and security... These are
beautiful phrases, which will be read
with bitterness, at least in this
country, where they will for a long
time be realized only on paper...”

Speaks Against War

The Main-Post (Wuerzburg) quoted
Dr. Spieker, Minister in North Rhine
Westphalia, as saying: “The Germans
first want a peace treaty and full
sovereign rights; after that they
would be ready to defend western
Europe on the Elbe.”

The paper
point of view:

“Who is to defend something again?
We ‘little men’ who have left mil-
lions of our brothers in the mass
graves of Europe? .. . We have de-
fended so many places in the last
several years—from the Atlantic to
Stalingrad—and the result was al-
ways millions of dead, crippled and
ruins. The word of Dr. Spieker, once
it becomes reality, will mean nothing
but taking leave from our wives and
children; barracks and infantry rifles,
endless ordeals, wounded men. frozen
to death, weeping women in front of
their burning huts, captivity and
death . .. We want to perish neither
on the Rhine, nor on the Elbe, nor
anywhere else.”

expresses a popular

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 28 ---
(Continued from page 4)

Seeing for Themselves

food rationing and price controls to
the establishment of community
clinics, stem directly from the three
K's which have been, in the. past, so
dear to the German women. Many
women's political organizations in
Germany know this, but they have
been eager to learn from their sisters
abroad how to show the masses of
German women the close connection
between government and the home.

Selected women leaders—they in-
clude writers, politicians, successful
professional women in their own
right as well as leaders of their sex—
will therefore work with women's
organizations in half a dozen Ameri-
can cities. Their host group is the
Carrie Chapman Catt Memorial Fund,
an affiliate of the League of Women
Voters. It will try to give them a
broad view of American political life,
where women in practice as well as
in theory are full-fledged and first-
class citizens,

NOTHER GROUP—selected Ger-

man civil service experts—will
travel with the blessing of un-
numbered “little men in the street.”
We know this from experience in the
occupation. Whenever a CAD worker
or a German commentator broaches
the subject of civil service, we get an
immediate reaction. People write to
their newspapers, or directly to us, by
dozens. Sometimes they disagree with
Proposed reforms. Usually, they ap-
plaud them. They are always inter-
ested,

“It was not much use complaining
to the government about something in
the old days," recalled one German.
“If you were very persistent and very
lucky, you might make your way
from the hall to the outer waiting
Toom, and even to the inner office.
Finally, you might sit down opposite
4 face, To you, the face often remain-
ed nameless. If you obtained no
Tedress, to whom could you go next?

"Even a little thing like putting the
names of officials on their doors is
Soing to help us ordinary people.”

Many "little things” can be done,
Tesponsible Germans agree, to make
Sovernment personnel respond to the
People who pay the salaries.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

German administration selected under the CAD governmental affairs exchange
program are being briefed in Frankfurt before their departure to the United
States for five months study in several US governmental departments, Left
to right around the table: Anna Beyer, liaison officer between Hessian minister
president and Bizonal Laenderrat; Dr. Horst Pommerening, Frankfurt lawyer
and soon to become a member of administrative law faculty, Frankfurt Uni-
versity; Alban F. Giggal, assistant chief of CAD’s Democratization Branch;
David Hunter, acting chief, Democratization Branch; Gerhard Mueller, director
of State Chancellery, Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern (French Zone); Dr. Rolf May,
special assistant to deputy mayor of Berlin; Friedrich Peimann, assistant to
president of Senate, Bremen, and director of Volksschule, Bremen; Charles
H. Knappstein, chief of press section for executive committee of Bizonal Eco-
nomic Council. Not in the picture but also taking part in the exchange plan
is Dr. Karl Mommer, member of Peace Bureau, Stuttgart, and Wuerttemberg-

Baden representative to Bizonal Economic Council.

Germans rightly point out that their
traditional civil service has some ex-
cellent features: its emphasis on
technical competence for one thing,
its aim of providing career security
for another.

HE GERMAN men and women

selected for our exchanges under-
stand that they go to America as
Germans, to study foreign ways which
may or may not fit in with the best
in the German governmental patterns.
They know too that it is up to them
to decide. The public pressure in
Germany for reform, however, leaves
us little doubt that they will find more
than one lesson worth passing on to
their colleagues back home.

One group in particular may help,
by its trip to America, to revive for
Germany a reputation which has long
been tarnished. Germany's position
was indeed once world-envied in
medicine and public health. In the
troubled days since World War I
Germany has fallen behind, however,
in the laboratory and the clinic. Today

25

(US Army Photo)

an overcrowding of doctors and of
medical students in some areas of
Western Germany is accompanied by
considerable ignorance of the latest
medical methods.

German public health administra-
tions are generally underetaffed.
Medical research programs have
indeed recovered from the nightmare
of sadistic Nazi experiments but, in
the aftermath, remain uninspired. In
a field in. which German doctors
pioneered, mental hygiene and
psychiatry, other western countries
have pushed far ahead while the
whole field lay stagnant in Germany,
after 1834, because of Hitler's under-
standable fear of all psychiatry.

All too aware of this bleak picture,
the public-health team of German
visitors will therefore spend from six
months to a full year in the United
States, They will have time to study
developments in the medical faculties
of our universities, hospitals and
health centers. They will go into
government offices which are con-

{Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
cerned primarily with human health.
They will “sit in“ at meetings of
democratic medical societies, and join
if they wish in the rapid-fire ex-
change of views and new techniques.

HE 46,000,000 west Germans have

likewise nothing to lose, though
much to gain, from a planned trip of
a few selected police administrators.
If the average German today dislikes
or fears the policeman on the corner,
it is partly because of the grim chores
of the police under the Nazis; and
partly because the German policeman,
even before Hitler, tended to be the
master of the citizen, rather than his
servant and protector, A German
policeman could, for instance, arrest
and fine a citizen at the same time.

Police forces, again, have been
over-centralized in Germany and made
militaristic by their training. It will
be interesting to the visiting German
police experts to note that a suburban
American police force can be in-
dependent of higher-wp control and
still protect the townsmen. In larger
cities and in the state police bureaus,
they will see how the police in a
democracy manages to get its man
while continuing to treat him as a
citizen. They will also observe that
the police in the United States is
always subordinated to populary
elected bodies and can thus never
behave as an uncontrolled executive
governmental unit.

Anyone scanning these few ex-
amples of the many trips we are
sponsoring might ask: “How can a
handful of Germans hope to change
the habits and mental outlook of a
whole nation? And how long can
these trips continue before our money
runs. out?”

O FAR, we have considered only

the Germans-to-America phase of
the program. But we are simultaneous-
ly sponsoring the work of American
experts in Germany. More significant
still, an Institute of Public Affairs has
been founded in Frankfurt. Like the
work of the Americans in Germany,

* the Institute deserves an article of its

own, It can be said here that the In-
stitute will also be a permanent clear-
ing-house for long-range exchanges of
German and foreign experts; that it
will provide permanence for the ex-
change program; and that eventually

INFORMATION BULLETIN

it is to become, at least in part, an
international enterprise under private
sponsorship.

Initially, the exchanges are being
financed mostly with US federal funds.
Some of the host groups in the United
States, both public and private, are
helping with incidental costs, But
because government funds are limited
and because it is desirable anyway to

In an effort to channel more
of Germany's women into politi-
cal action for democracy, the
Civil Administration Division is
sending eight women leaders for
a three-month stay to the United
States. Their host group in the
United States is the Carrie Chap-
man Catt Memorial Fund, affi-
liated with the League of Women
Voters, German women taking
part im the program are:

Lisa Albrecht, second chairman
of SPD in Bavaria.

Maria Probst, CSU member of
Bavarian legislature .

Juliana von Kampenhausen,
CDU member of Wuerttemberg-
Baden legislature.

Bertha Krause, organizer of
women’s and welfare groups,
member of CSU,

Anna Haag, SPD member of
Wuerttemberg-Baden legislature,
novellist and political writer.

Elisabeth Ley, member of Bre-
men Parliament and Bremen Dem-
ocratic party.

Dr. Agnes Maxsein, CDU mem-
ber of Berlin assembly.

Nora Melle, former LDP mem-
ber of Berlin City Council.

(Key to abbreviations: SPD — Social
Democratic Party. CDU — Christian
Democratic Party, known as Christian
Socialist Party (CSU) in Bavaria. LDP
— Liberal Democratic Party.)

shift this exchange as soon as possible
to a private and voluntary basis, we
anticipate that in the governmental
field the method of financing will be
modified after this fiscal year. We are
counting heavily on the help of
American universities, private as-
Sociations and foundations to carry
on the work.

Mathematically, the odds seem
indeed to be against us. A handful of
travelers will return from western
shores to be re-absorbed by a teeming

26

community of 46,000,000 Germans in
the three western zones alone.
Fortunately, however, Germany's
doors to the West are reopening at a
dozen points at once. Only one of
these is the interchange of public
leaders.

The Germany which contributed
great gifts of music, philosophy and
science to the western world now
comes in turn to the West for new
ideas in the art and science of man’s
self-government.

Meanwhile, the German people, con-
fused and disillusioned after 12 years
of militarism, longs for a more humane
way of life. What the visiting ex-
perts can bring back is proof that
democracy is more than a word—that
its techniques can be learned, that
they are working now in the West,
that they can “happen here."

E HAVE FAITH in our own ideas.

Our expectation is that when
the Germans embarking on this ex-
change program return they will say
to their colleagues in a dozen walks
of life:

"I have been there. It is good. I
have seen it. I know."

Finally, of course, the decision will
be up to the Germans.

They can turn back to cobwebbed
traditions which have weighed them
down under the Kaiser, in the Re-
public and under Hitler. They can
ridicule the proven methods of
western government as “un-German"--
that time-tested curse uttered in order
to damn progress throughout Ger-
many’s unhappy past.

Or instead, they can recognize that
democratic self-administration har-
monizes with the better aspirations of
German history. They can, if they
choose, adapt the proven methods of
the West to their own framework of
postwar government.

At any rate, we are providing them
with tools, ideas and other techniques,
and inviting them to build. +END

Rare Metals Released

Approximately 29,000 ounces of’
platinum, iridium, rhodium and pal-
ladium were released to the Bank
Deutscher Laender for safekeeping
pending receipt of further data re-*
quested from I. G. Farben as to
their origin.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949”

--- Page 30 ---
(Continued from page 22)
Germany’s New Press

sher has been unable to obtain other
newspaper printing facilities and these
are not available or obtainable, the
lease shall be extended for an ad-
ditional period of three years. Payment
of a fair rental was required, with
provision for revision of rental fees.

HIS DIRECTIVE induced the sign-

ing of a number of voluntary
leases in the fall of 1947 and during
1948, But by the fall of 1948, many
newspapers had failed to negotiate
voluntary leases, and delays in the
imposition of mandatory leases re-
quired a further step. Instructions
were issued to impose mandatory con-
tracts at once in all pending cases
where it was clear that voluntary
leases could not be negotiated im-
mediately. In December 1948, out of
the 56 newspapers in the US Zone and
Berlin, all but 10 newspapers were
publishing under lease contracts. It
was expected that of the 10, at least
three and perhaps more could be
settled on a voluntary basis. The rest
were to be made mandatory before
Jan, 31,

At the same time, Military Govern-
ment terminated for newspapers
established in the future the property
control and lease-contract procedure.
Surveys have shown that there is con-
siderable printing equipment _ still
available for newspaper publishing

/
oe

During the recent rush of foreign-born

dependents to the United States
before the deadline of their special
entry privilege, Ann Lyn Hagan, eight-
month-old adopted daughter of Major
and Mrs, Dick Hagan, flew unaccom-
panied from Frankfurt to New York
where she was met by an aunt. After
establishing residence in Spartenburg,
S.C., she was to return to her parents
slationed in Nuremberg. Shown with
Ann is Stewardess Loretta Ouellet.
(Pan American photo)

throughout the US Zone for use of
future newspapers which may be
established. z

All leases negotiated or imposed
contain the provision for extension
of the lease for an additional three-
year period except in a few cases
where a voluntary contract was ne-
gotiated for more than the eight-year
total period or where the publisher
was constructing his own plant and
did not require the provision to be

included. Most of the leases in question
were negotiated in the fall of 1947
and in 1948 so that the tenure of the
publisher is protected until about 1955,

By this time it is expected that pro-
duction of printing equqipment in
Germany will have greatly increased
and the availability of plants or new
construction will be greater. It is be-
lieved, too, that newspapers set up
under occupation guidance will be
able successfully to meet competition
from any newly established news-
papers.

(Continued from page 7)
Review of ERP Aid

was and still is the main problem,
but the time is not far distant when
the most difficult task will be the
sale of German manufactured goods.
Further marked increases in pro-
duction, shifting of imports to non-
dollar areas, closer trade ties with
European countries, continuation of a
domestic austerity program, and mar-
keting manufactured goods—those are
the main problems, all facing Ger-
many within the framework of the
Marshall Plan. Finally, Germany along
with the other participating countries,
must become more and more an in-
tegral part of the framework of this
community of nations to the end that
mutual aid and cooperation may
achieve the goals they have set for
themselves. -++END

German Town Inaugurates US Student Traffic Patrol

HE LITTLE Wuerttemberg-Baden
town of Kornwestheim near Stutt-
gart saw the introduction, for the first
time in the US Zone, of that American
institution—the student traffic patrol
system.

A group of 12 teen-age youngsters,
Wearing white caps, cross belts and
badges, guided about 800 children of
the Schiller school across the heavily-
traveled main road through Korn-
Westheim,

German officials and police, and
Us Military Government and Army
Officials looked on and pronounced
the first operation a success.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

Also looking on was Angelo Ham-
melbacher, one of the directors of the
Salamander Shoe Co. He observed the
patrols in Nashville, Tenn., and Man-
chester, N.H., while on a business
trip in the United States. When he
returned to Germany he talked with
Thomas E. Griswold, Jr., MGO of Lud-
wigsburg County, where Kornwestheim
is situated, about the system.

Griswold put him in touch with
ist Lt. Paul Reed, provost marshal,
who started to work out plans with
the local police. Hammelbacher then
went to see Frank A.Miller of the
Public Safety Office of OMGWB, who
told him all about how it was done

27

in Ney Jersey; where Miller was a
former member of the state police.

Patterned after the New Jersey plan,
the patrols keep the children on the
sidewalks while they determine a safe
period when they may cross the main
road. Six youths are stationed near
the Schiller school, while another half
dozen will be placed near the Uhland
school, a few blocks away.

This group of 12 alternates each
week with another group. The patrols
were picked on basis of school deport-
ment and grades. At the end of the
year, as in New Jersey, the parti-
cipants will receive certificates of
merit.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Part of Bavarian Law Ordered Suspended |

Suspension of undemocratic portions
of the Bavarian law governing finan-
cial equalization between the state
and communities and communal cor-
porations was ordered by OMGB.

Mr. Murray D. Van Wagoner, State
OMG director, ordered the suspension,
effective Dec. 31,1948, in a letter to
Dr. Hans Ehard, minister president.

Under the German taxation system,
communities cannot levy sufficient
taxes to provide sufficient revenue
for all their operations, Consequently
the state government allocates cer-
tain funds from its tax revenues to

communities and communal cor-
porations. These allocations are
governed by the Law on Financial
Equalization.

The director described the law
which the Bavarian legislature passed
last Aug. 10, “in general very satis-
factory." But he said that two
portions of the law were found to be
contrary to Military Government
law and policy.

The first objection was that the
minister of interior was granted too
great authority over local police
forces, This was held inconsistent

In appreciation of his
Mr. Charles M. LaFollette (center), who retired recently as director of

OMGWB, was presented an

“benevolent ‘ work

18-foot wide,

with MG policy for decentralized and
independent police forces.

The second objection was to pro-
visions empowering the ministers of
interior and finance to issue un-
specified special regulations for the
city of Munich, This was considered
a violation of democratic principles
by granting executive branches of
government legislative powers.

Director Van Wagoner pointed out
that these objections had been voiced
by Military Government in informal
discussions of the draft law with
the legislature's budget committee
and the minister of finance. These
objections, however, were ignored.

“I would appreciate your taking
the appropriate action to correct
these deficiencies in the law which
have required the suspension,” the
director stated in his letter.

Rail Cars Meet Demand
Despite an increased transportation
load, there are enough railroad cars
in Hesse to handle essential traffic,
according to Theodore E, Dodds,
transportation adviser.

in Wuerttemberg-Baden,”

hand-embroidered wall

tapestry on behelf of the Hoover Feeding Program in Stuttgart. Albert
Herb, the program's local director, made the presentation. Hedwig Rieth
(left) is head of the Stuttgart School for Home Economics, whose
students were among 60 girls from several schools who put in two
weeks’ intensive work to create the tapestry. It shows the coats of

arms of eleven cities in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(PIO OMGWB photo)

28

Compulsory Labor
Direction Upset

In the first instance of its kind, an
administrative affairs court in Kassel,
Hesse, ruled against compulsory
direction of labor. In this case the
plaintiff, after working voluntarily for
one year following the end of the
war as a builder’s helper was refused
permission by the labor office to
resume his normal occupation with
a private insurance company.

In the spring of 1947 the labor
office approved the plaintiff's ac-
ceptance of employment with an in-
surance company but later refused to —
sanction a change of employment to
another insurance company and
directed the plaintiff instead to report
for work as a builder's helper to a
construction firm.

When the plaintiff ignored the
order, the Labor Office refused to
renew his ration card. The right of
the Labor Office to compulsory
direction of labor was denied.—From
Military Governor's Monthly Report
No. 41.

Communities Quarantined

A strict quarantine has been
established in several communities
around Ziegenhain in northern Hesse,
to prevent the spread of type B hoof
and mouth disease, according to an
announcement by OMG Hesse.

Type B already has taken the lives
of between 15 and 20 head of cattle
in Ziegenhain.

Efforts are being made to import
type B vaccine from Denmark, the
only known available source for the ~
serum. However, limited production —
and the prevalence of hoof and mouth ~
disease there will prevent large scale
exports of the vaccine. :

Hesse Jails Hold 6,000 4
Almost 6,000 Hessians are’ still”
confined in prisons in the state, it”
was revealed by OMG Hesse. Threé
thousand four hundred were sentenced —
by German courts, while the others”
are serving sentences meted out by
MG courts. Thirteen of the convicted)
persons, including two women, have
been sentenced to death.

FEBRUARY 8, 19:

--- Page 32 ---
Germans Get “Free” Radio
— — as MG Relinquishes Direct Controls

'URNOVER of radio to German

management began in the United
States zone of occupation in the last
week of January when public ser-
vice corporations organized by state
law for that purpose took over oper-
ation of Radio Munich and Radio
Frankfurt, Similar transfer of Radio
Stuttgart and Radio Bremen is planned
when suitable legislation has been
passed,

In addressing keynoting the public
ceremonies in which Military Go-
vernment relinquished the manage-
ment of the two stations, General
Lucius D, Clay at Frankfurt and Maj.
Gen. George P. Hays at Munich
charged the German communities
with responsibility in preserving free,
independent radio as provided in the
new legislation.

“Good government and freedom
survive only when there is a free
press and a free radio," General Clay
declared to the Radio Frankfurt
audience, “It is now your radio, to
serve you, and not our radio, You
take a great step forward in having
a free radio, It is within your power
to keep it so.”

General Hays, deputy military go-
vernor and commanding general of
OMGUS, outlined a listener's function
in maintaining free radio in a de-
Mocracy, He said: “Open discussion,
even harsh controversy, ate funda-
mental in a strong democracy society.
They may not be pleasant, certainly
not restful, but they are necessary.
When your radio station speaks only
with a voice of assent, there is
Something wrong with it and worse
Still, it is the danger sign that
Something is already wrong with the
community, Against this development,
You must set your guard.”

ETURN of radio to German hands

comes after three and a half
Years of physical restoration and po-
litical reorientation directed by Mili-
tary Government, Physically, the
Tadio stations of Germany were al-
Most demolished in the war.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

The first American radio officers
to move in were faced with the task
of setting up operation, however
limited, in bombed out buildings and
with what equipment could be patched
and scrounged, German radio spoke
with a whisper for some months.
Gradually, the physical plants have
been built up until present state
broadcasting stations compare fa-
vorably with the most powerful and
modern American installations,

Restoration of the physical plants
has been the lighter side of the story
and the lesser of the tasks which faced
Military Government in supervising
revival of German radio, Incom-
parably more complicated was the
attempt to make radio a capable in-
strument for a democracy.

Unlike the field of press, where
older Germans have known a tra-
dition of competition and freedom,
radio in Germany was born and has
lived most of its life in an atmosphere
of government domination, Under the
Nazis, this domination became com-
plete. Radio was a centralized agency,
operated by the Reichsrundfunkgesell-
schaft (national radio corporation) as
the monotone voice of the Hitlerian
government,

Freedom of the air was an unknown
quantity. Listeners expected to hear
from their radios the concluded views
of officialdom, They had no concept
of a public discussion being broadcast
to inform the community on the pros
and cons of a problem still to be
decided nor of a protesting minority
battering at an accomplished fact.

INCE THERE was no acquaintance

with independent radio, there was
no apparent public demand for it.
Even the first German officials, elected
as advocates of our type of demo-
cracy, tended to think of radio as an
instrument of government rather the
comunity as an whole. The task of
building up the exercise of and a
demand for freedom of the air has
been the major assignment of Amer-

29

ican radio officers in the last three
and a half years,

Freedom of the air, of course, is a
somewhat anomolous term. It is
exactly because of the limitations of
air facilities that establishing equit-
able, democratic use of radio is such
a problem. Even in America where
there is diversity of ownership and
actual competition, it has been neces-
sary to adopt elaborate regulations
and codes to insure “free air."

In Germany the situation is more
restricted. Many German listeners are
assured good daytime listening on
only one station, Until frequency
modulation or some other develop-
ment multiplies available facilities,
this will be a prevailing condition, It
is therefore imperative that within the
output of that one station a condition
resembling freedom of the air be
established,

How well this will be done in a
future free Germany will depend on
how firmly the community demands
it as a right. On that, one may hore,
but not prophesy.

For the present, there are seemingly
adequate safeguards. The radio laws
passed in the Hessian and Bavarian
legislatures are thought by Military
Government to be good. Overcentrali-
zation has been avoided by estab-
lishment of radio on a state basis.
Radio listener fees provide financial
independence and the laws say these
fees are not to be encroached upon.

PUBLIC radio corporation has

set up in each state, consisting

of a radio council, an administrative
council and the broadcasting station
which they supervise. The radio
council is the major body, It is made
up of members elected by cultural,
educational and religious groups, by
employers associations, trade unions,
and farmers, by youths’ groups and
women's societies and by delegates
of the political parties, The compo-
sition was carefully planned to avoid,
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
if it is possible, domination by any
one political element or special
interest. This is the body which is
bas.cally responsible for the radio
of the state. Under it the adminis-
trative council, selected in part or
wholly from the council, directs the
business affairs of the station, An
intendant, chosen by the radio coun-
cil, is the active director of the
station and its personnel.

It ist a set-up which may-be com-
pared roughly to the school board
system prevalent in most American
cities. And like those school systems,
German radio will not be immune to
pressure, It can only be hoped that
diversity and balance of represen-
tation have provided the radio coun-
cil with a resistant structure.

The laws which set up the public
radio corporations in Bavaria and
Hesse also lay down standards for
“free radio: Objective news pre-
sentation with rumors labeled as
such. Equal broadcasting opportu-
nities to opposing public elements,
such as political parties, employer
and employee groups. The right of
responsible criticism of government
and the right of criticized officials
to respond, No discrimination against
teligious or race groups. And safe-
guards against offenses to public
morals,

HESE are the principles which
Military Government has at-
tempted to inculcate into German
radio in the past three and a half
years, The principles are now law
in two states and it is expected that
they will soon be written into radio
laws in Bremen and Wuerttemberg-
Baden. “Free radio will then have
been legally secured to the people
of these states, Only the people, of
course, can make it actually secure.
Some MG legislation continues in
effect for German radio, No broad-
casting is permitted to prejudice the
security and prestige of the occu-
pying powers. Clearly labeled MG
talks continue to be _ broadcast.
Military Government continues to
represent German radio in  inter-
nat.onal dealings such as frequency
conferences, And it is implicit in the
letters of authorization granted the
radio councils of Hesse and Bavaria
that non-compliance with the prin-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ciples of existing radio legislation
will be basis for revoking these
letters and the authority that goes
with them. American radio officers
who until the turnover had super-
vised the stations, remain as con-
sultants and observers, It is their
assignment now to see that “free”
radio gets a chance to make its way.

-+END

New Milk Substitute

During the past year and half,
experiments have been carried on
with a new milk substitute called
“maltavena” or “lactavena,” which
is made from a mixture of barley,
corn, wheat, soya, sugar beet syrup,
sugar, skim milk powder, and vita-
mins and contains all the minerals
and vitam:ns found in milk. It is so
digestible that it can be fed to child-
ten of under one year.

The present production capacity of
maltavena is only 100 metric tons
per month, which is equivalent to
625,000 liters of full-cream milk. This
production represents approximately
0.25 percent of the total full-cream
and skim-milk requirements of the
Bizonal Area.

At present, 200 tons of maltavena
are being distributed in North Rhine-
Westphalia, but as the product is
almost completely unknown, the issue
is being made against an unused
coupon of the ration card instead of
against the milk ration—From Mili-
tary Governor's Monthly Report No.41.

(Continved from page 18)
Bavaria’s Vacationland

clude many of the places of interest
or may stay in one place and make
short trips from there, as arranged
previous to obtaining the Military
Entry-Exit Permit. Travel agenctes
have their own scheduled tours or in
combination with the other agencies.
Travel is by buses for large parties,
licensed taxis and German railroads.

(Editor's note—All prices and details men-
tioned below are those submitted by the
sponsoring agencies in January. The prices
are based on one mark equals 30 cents. Tips
and gratuities are included in the service
charges. For any future change in the prices
due to fluctuations in expenses and cost of
living, and in the exchange value of cur-
rencies, corresponding changes must be made
in the following quotations.)

30

A range of dollar prices has been compiled
of those listed at licensed hote’s and res-
taurants in Bavaria, The prices vary accord-
ing to locality and the class of hotel and
restaurant.

Hotel rates:

Single room without bath $1.20—3.00
Single room with bath . : 1.80—3.90
Double room without bath . 2.40—4,20
Double room with bath . 2.70—7.20
Plus 10 to 15 percent charges, also other
minor charges such as tax
Restaurant rates:
Breakfast
Continental (rolls, coffee, etc) $.30— .60
American (eggs, ham, etc) <68—1.20
Lunch (table d héte only) ‘98—1.80
Dinner (table d'héte only, wine
extra)... oe eee 1,203.40

Pius 10 pencent service charges.

One of the leading American travel agencies
has several tours scheduled. three of which
are within Bavaria. Others include Bavaria as
part of the itineraries in two or more
European countries. The Bavarian tours are:
Tour I—Four days, spend'ng one day in
Munich and one day in the Bavarian Alps,
visiting Mittenwald, Garmisch-Partenkirchen
and Oberammergau,

Tour I—Six days, starting from Munich,
visiting Munich, Starnberg, Oberammergau,
Garmisch, Tegernsee, Bad Reichenhall, Berchtes-
gaden and returning to Munich, Daring July
and August, passenge:s can arrange to attend
the Salzburg Musical Festival in Austria near
Berchtesgaden.

Tour MI—10 days in southern Germany, visit-
ing Munich, Mittenwald, Garmisch, Zugspitze,
Oberammergau, Augsburg, Noerdlingen, Din-
kelsbuehl, Augsburg, Rothenburg, Nuremberg,
Wuerzburg, before going on the last two days
to Frankfurt, Wiesbaden, Bad Homburg and
Kronberg in Hesse.

For these tours, the listed party rates which
include transportation, meals, hotel accom-
modations and gratuities, are per person:

1pers. 2pers. 3pers. 4pers, 5pers.
Tour I $50.00 $42.00 $39.50 $38.50 $38.00
Tour I 110.50 83.50 75.50 71.50 68.50
Tour III 234.50 170.50 149.50 139.50 133.50

The leading German travel agency has two
major scheduled tours, one of 10 days starting
every Friday from Frankfurt, and the other of
seven days starting every’ Wednesday also
from Frankfurt. It likewise has many short and
special tours, all available under the JEIA-
supervised payment program.

Its 10-day tour, after visiting Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden, enters Bavaria on the
fourth day near Ulm, continuing through
Munich, Oberammergau,  Garmisch-Parten-
kirchen, Tegernsee, Chiemsee, Berchtesgaden,
Koenigssee, Nuremberg, Rothenburg, Dinkels-
buehl, Creglingen, Bad Mergentheim and
Wuerzburg before returning to Frankfurt.

The seven-day tour enters Bavaria on the
second day at Aschaffenburg, continuing on to
Wuerzburg, Nuremberg, Rothenburg, D.nkels-
buehl, Augsburg. Kirch'in der Wies (Church in
the Meadow), Oberammergau, Ettal, Garmisch-
Partenkirchen, Mittenwald and Munich, before
leaving Bavaria at Ulm on the sixth day.

The list price for the ten-day tour is
$149.50 and for the seven-day tour $124.50.
Both include transportation in coach buses,
first-class hotels (private bath $1 extra per
night), meals, sight-seeing and guide charges and
gratituties. They do not include extra beverages,
personal items as laundry, purchases, in-
surance and delays beyond the management's
control.

A Bavarian touring service in Munich
provides sedan cars for a minimum of three
passengers on many short trips in and near
Munich of three to six hours at a cost of
$1 to $4 per person, Fullday trips are $6
and $7 per person. Advance arrangement must
be mude for two weekend tours, the grand
historical tour costing $12.50 per person, and
the grand Alpine tour $10 per person.
However, these charges are only for the
transportation, while the costs of hotel ac-
commodations and meals are additional.

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

--- Page 34 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

al and Judicial Affairs, No. 38, 1 Sept.
tot? to 31 Aug. 1948, CO OMGUS, August 1948.
Cumulative review as annex to Report of the
Military Governor, No. 38.

Tne European Recovery Program, 1 April to
30 Sept.. 1948, CO OMGUS, Sept. 1948. Joint
report of the United States and United King-
dom Military Governors,

Statistical Annex, Issue No. XXI, CO OMGUS,
November 1948. Annex to Report of the Mili-
tary Governor, No. 41,

Ownership and Control of the Ruhr Indus-
tries, CO OMGUS, November 1948. Special
report of the Military Governor.

Economic Developments since Currency Re-
form, CO OMGUS, November 1948, Special
repost of the Military Governor.

Weekly Directive No, 49,
10 Dec. 1948. Lists following:

Sec I — Military Justice Courses for Offi-
cers.

Sec III — Stenography Course for Enlisted
Personnel.

Sec IV — Clearance and Documentation for
Leave and Duty Travel. Amends rescission.

Sec V — Wearing of the Uniform in Com-
munist - Sponsored Demonstrations, Quotes
L/A Circular.

Sec VI — 1949 EUCOM Ice Hockey Champ-
fonships.

Sec VII — Redesignation of US Naval
Advanced Base, Weser River.

Sec VIII — Fire Precautions for the Holi-
day Season.

Sec IX — "Marinex" Ocean Express Ship-
ments,

Sec X — Respirator, Dust, M2.

Sec XI — Entries on NME Form No. 4
(Enlistment Record — United States).

Sec XII — Application for Competitive Tour
of Active Duty for Appointment as Lieute-
nants, Regular Army.

Sec XIII — Appointment of Second Lieute-
nants, Regular Army, From Distinguished
Graduates of Army Officter Candidate School,
and from Regular Army Warant Officiers and
Enlisted Men.

Sec XIV — Deferment, Cancellation and
Reinstatement of Port Calls for Dependents’
Travel,

Sec XV — EUCOM Exchange System Ration
Cards. Concerns Revisions in EUCOM Cin 55.

Sec XVI — US Army Logistical Support of
IRO Operations and IRO Personnel in the US
Occupied Zone of Germany, Concerns revi-
sions,

Sec XVII — Operation of the Criminal In-
vestigation Division,

Sec XVIII — EUCOM Multiple Addressee
letters and Cables. Covers Dec 3 to 9.

Military Government Gazette, Issue L, Legal
Division, OMGUS, 16 Dec. 1948,

Appropriations and Projects Pertaining to
Non Occupation Costs—(Jewish Restitution
Successor Organization), AG 120 BFD-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 16 Dec. 1948.

Reorganization of Military Post Quarter-
master Activities, AG 322 CQM-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 17 Dec. 1948,

Preparation of Separation and Enlistment
Records, AG 352 AGX-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
17 Dec, 1948.

Circular No. 168, Hq EUCOM, 17 Dec. 1948.
Lists: Part I—Movement, Documentation and
Security in Transit of Supplies in the Euro-
Pean Command; Part II—Shipment of US
Forces Material to the United States or Other
Overseas Destinations,

Weekly Directive No. 50,
17 Dec. 1948. Lists following:
ped Il — Signal Corps Training Films. Lists
of Coemhbor to the North," ‘Production
combat Tntetligence” and ‘General Per-

ing — ROTC at Work.”

Sec III — AGRC Special Mess in Paris.

Sec IV — Extensions of Overseas Tours.

Be V — Monthly Club Reports.

eo ate Christmas Messages.

Bs — Scrap Control Officers,

© VIII — Items to be Dyed by STEG.

Hq EUCOM,

Hq EUCOM,

FEBRUARY 8, 1949

Sec X — Emigration of Labor Service
Personnel (Displaced Persons) to the United
States.

Sec XI — EUCOM Quartermaster School
Center Courses,

Sec XII — Movement of 7701 EUCOM Band
Training School.

Sec XIII — Change of Precedence Classi-
fication on Radio and Teletypewriter Messages.

Sec XIV — Discussion Leader Training for
Platoon Leaders, Platoon Sergeants and Com-
parable Leaders.

Sec XV — Travel by Mats.

Sec XVI — EUCOM Multiple Addressee
Letters and Cables. Covers Dec, 11 to 16.

Sec XVIII — Tire Gauges.

Painting and Marking of Vehicles of the
Military Police Post Highway Patrol, AG 451
GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 20 Dec, 1948.

European Command Station List, AG 319.26
AGU, Hq EUCOM, 22 Dec. 1948.
Weekly Directive No. 51, Hq EUCOM.

23 Dec. 1948. Lists following:

Sec II — Quarterly Penalty Matter Report
and Annual Inventory of Penalty Matter.

Sec III — Familiarization Fire with Shoul-
der Weapon.

Sec IV — Personnel Survey of the Army.

Sec VI — Military Police Department,
EUCOM, Intelligence School.

Sec VIII — 1949 EUCOM Skiing Champion-
ships.

Sec IX — Signal Corps Training Films.
Lists ‘’Sicily to Naples,” ‘The Atom Strikes,”
and “Problems of Peace in Europe.”

Sec X — Support of the Jewish Restitution
Successor Organization (JRSO). Lists technical
change,

Sec XI — Rifle, Cal. 22, Remington 513T.
Lirects immediate turn-in.

Sec XII — EUCOM Multiple
Letters, Covers Dec. 16 to 23.

TDY Travel Within All Occupied Zones of
Germany and Austria (Reports Control Sym-
bol ECAGX-OT-36), AG 300.4 AGP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 23 Dec. 1948.

General Procedures to be Followed to Con-
trol Riots or Disturbances Among the German
Population, AG 383.4 SGS-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
27 Dec. 1948.

Property Control Accounting and Auditing

Procedures, Supplementing Title 17, Miltary

Adressee

Government Regulations, AG 010.6
OMGUS, 29 Dec. 1948.
Weekly Directive No. 52, Hq EUCOM,

30 Dec, 1948, Lists following:

Sec 1'— Procurement of Second Lieutenants
for Active Duty.

Sec Il — Record of Emergency Data (NME
Form 93).

Sec II] — Disposition of Enlistment Records.

Sec IV — Signal Corps Training Films.
Lists ‘82nd Airborne Division,” and “ist
Army—Aachen to the Ruhr River.”

Sec V — EUCOM Authorization
Loads.

Sec VI — Teletypewriter Message Prepar-
ation.

Sec VII —
Bonds.

Sec VIII — Leave Travel to Spain.

Sec IX — Travel Per Diem and Station
Allowances for Military Personnel on Duty
Outside the Continental United States.

Sec X — Enlistment, Regular Army and
Womens’ Army Corps.

for Basic

Availability of Government

Sec XI — Anti-Freeze. Concerns use of
German _anti-Freeze.

Sec XII — Transportation of Dependents.

Sec XIII —_ Distribution of 1949 Court-

Martial Manuals,

Sec XIV — Designation of Major Commands.

Sec XV — Control Branch.

Sec XVI — Procedures for
Weather Service.

Sec XVII — Preparation of Separation and
Enlistment Records.

Requesting

Sec XVIII — Courses of Instruction at
European Command Engineer School.

Sec XIX — Army General Classification
Tests.

31

Sec XX — Appointment of Women as
Warrant Officers in the WAC, RA and in
the USAF,

Sec XXI — Implementation of DA Circular
146, 1948, Program for Raising Educational
Qualifications of Regular Army Officers.

Sec XXII — EUCOM Multiple Addressee
Letters. Covers Dec. 24 to 30.

Report of OMG Berlin Sector. 1 to 31 Dec.
1948, PRS&H Br, OMGBS, December 1948.

Human Relations in Industry by Charles E.
Shaw, Visiting Export Series No. 4, Man-
power D: OMGUS, December 1948,

Economic Council Ordinance No. 82, ‘'Ord-
inance on the Tea Tax," BICO/Sec (49) 12,
BICO, 5 Jan. 1949,

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin No. 1,
Hq EUCOM, 5 Jan. 1949. Contains:

Sec I — Operating Information, Distribution
of Bureau of Internal Revenue Forms.

Sec II — Distribution. Covers Dec. 27 to 30.

European Command Tables of Allowances
and Equipment Modification Lists, AG 400.34
GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 10 Jan. 1949.

Authorization No. 1 to Jewish Restitution
Successor Organization (Revised), AG 080
(PL), OMGUS, 10 Jan. 1949.

Military Government Regulations, AG 010.6
(CO), OMGUS, 10 Jan. 1949, Lists Titles and
Changes to Titles of MG Regulations cur-
rently in effect.

Adjustment of Scheduled Rotation Dates for
Officers and Warrant Officers, AG 210.31
GPA-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 10 Jan. 1949.

Replacement Personnel fo Labor Service
Units, AG 322 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
11 Jan, 1949.

Local Procurement in Germany on Behalf
of International Refugee Organization, AG
400.12 GSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 11 Jan. 1949.

Inventory of Engineer Heavy Equipment
(Reports Control Symbol ECENG-OT-21), AG
142.1 ENG-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 12 Jan. 1949,

Administrative Requirements for Proper
Execution of Military Government Law No. 59
(Restitution of Identifiable Property), AG
010.6 (PL), OMGUS, 12 Jan. 1949.

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin No. 2,
Hq EUCOM, 12 Jan. 1949. Covers Jan. 3 to 7.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 73, ISD
OMGUS, 13 Jan. 1949.

Allied Military Missions, AG 091.112 (SG),
OMGUS, 14 Jan. 1949,

Weekly Dinective No. 2,
14 Jan, 1949, Lists following:

Sec I — Safety Bulletin.

Sec II — Open Season for the Shooting of
Hare (Hase) in Land Hesse.

Sec Ill — Promotion of Officers upon Relief
from Active Duty.

Sec IV — Issuance of RTA's and Passenger
Warrants on Main Seiner.

Sec V — Guarded Parking Lots.

Sec VI — Entry of Private Automobiles into
Holland.

Sec VII — Signal Corps Training Films. Lists
“First-Aid on the Finn.sh Wi.ter F.ont—Paper
—Utilization,” ‘Social Adjustment for the Flind
Soldier,‘’ and ‘‘Land and Live in the Arctic.”

Sec VIII — Regular Army Active Duty Pro-
fessional Training in Military Residency Pro-
gram.

Sec IX — Invitational Company Level Basket-
ball Tournament.

Sec X — Marriage of US Military, Air Force
and Civilian Personnel to Aliens.

Sec XI — Identification Symbols.

Sec XII — Reduction of Enlist2d Personnel
for Repeated Venereal Infe-tions.

Sec X!II — Exercise of Supply Discipline.

Sec XIV — Distritution of Bureau of Internal
Revenue Forms.

Sec XV — Date of Obligation of Claims other
than Tort Claims.

Sec XVI — Promotion to the Permanent
Grade of Colonel, Regular Army.

Sec XVII — Interzonal Travel Agreements.

Sec XVIII — Officer Candidate Schools.

Sec XIX — Revall to Extended Active Duty.

Sec XX — Direct Appointment in Regular
Army of Selected Individuals with Essential
Technological Background.

Hq EUCOM,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Sec XXI —
Tests.

Sec XXII — EUCOM Multiple Addressee Let-
ters.

Sec XXIV — Courses of Instructions at Euro-
pean Command Engineer School.

Sec XXV — Marriage.

Economic Press Digest, No. 32, OMGUS PIO
(Frankfurt), 14 Jan. 1949.

Military Government Law No. 75, ‘‘Reorganiz-
ation of Gevman Coal and Iron and Steel In-
dustries,‘" AG 010 (EA), OMGUs, 14 Jan, 1949.
Provides German translation of Schedules A
and B to OMGUS letter of Nov. 20.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 77, “'Ordin-
ance to Ensure the Supply of Fertilizers and
Seeds,’ BICO/Sec(49)27, BICO, 14 Jan. 1949.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 74, “Second
Ordinance concerning the Temporary Structure
of the Economic Administration in the Com-
bined Economic Area," BICO/Sec(49)26, BICO,
14 Jan. 1949.

Legal Gazette of the Combined Economic
Area, No. 2, BICO/GL(49)14, 14 Jan. 1949,

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No.74, ISD
OMGUS, 15 Jan. 1949.

Progress Report on UN, Troop I&E Bulletin,
Vol. 4, No. 3, TI&E Office, EUCOM, 16 Jan.
1949.

Army General Classification

Excerpts Taken from Official

Interzonal Travel

Agreements have been concluded and
placed in effect by the French-US Military
Governments and the UK-US Military Gov-
ernments on the freedom of interzonal travel
between their respective zones of Germany.
German authorities have been directed by
OMGUS to remove inspection controls along
the French-US German zonal boundaries and
the British-US German zonal boundaries.

Although the original agreement required
non-German residents to obtain interzonal
travel passes, those restrictions have been
removed and at present all German natio-
nals and non-German residents regularly re-
siding in the French or US zone may travel
freely between those two zones, and ‘simi-
Yarly all German nationals and non-German
tesidents regularly yesiding in the UK or US
zones may travel freely between thdse two
zones.

This agreement does not affect occupation
personnel, but all US military travel controls
have been removed from the US/UK and _US-
French German zonal borders. — From EUCOM
Weekly Directive No. 2.

Guarded Parking Lots

Guarded parking lots will be provided by
post or installation commanders for the pur-
pose of providing adequate security for al!
vehicles, including privately owned vehicles
of occupation personnel and personnel of
accredited agencies without charge, — From
EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 2.

Travel to Holland

The ‘‘carnet de passage’’ is no longer re-
quired for entry into Holland of privately
owned automobiles of military and civilian
personnel of the US occupation forces in
Germany.

Upon entry of privately owned automobiles
into Holland, a ‘‘Transit-Triptych’’ will be
issued without charge, This permit js valid
for a period of two months. The ‘‘Transit-
Triptych’ will be carried in the vehicle for
the duration of the stay in Holland and will
be surrendered to the border officials upon
leaving that country, — From EUCOM
Weekly Directive No. 2.

Personnel Reports

Effective with the report as of Jan. 31 1949
all administrative personnel officers in Berlin
will be responsible for submitting to Reports
Section, Office of Personnel Officer, OMGUS,
Berlin, a consolidated division report, as
directed by Personnel Bulletin H-37, F-20,
OMGUS headquarters, dated Sept. 8 1947, on
all personnel assigned or attached to a di-
vision whether administered by Office of
Personnel Officer, Frankfurt or Berlin.
Attached to OMGUS Form MG/PO/12/A will
be the supplemental report showing the
actual number and geographical location of

Legal Gazette of the Combined Economic
Area, No. 3, BICO/GL(49)15, BICO, 17 Jan, 1949.

Concurrence List, AG 319.1 (AG), OMGUS,
17 Jan. 1949, Directs notification of revision.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No, 75, ISD
OMGUS, 18 Jan. 1949.

Legal Gazette of the Combined Economic

Area, No.4, BICO/GL(18)16, BICO, 18 Jan.
Economic Council Ordinance No. 81 ““(Se-

cond) Ordinance to Combat Extortionate Pri-
ces” (as amended), /BICO/Sec(49)29, BICO
18 Jan. 1949.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 75, "Second
Ordinance to Amend the Emergency Ordinance
of Economic Controls" (as amended), BICO/Sec
(49)30, BICO, 18 Jan. 1949.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 79, “‘Ordin-
ance concerning the Revision and Reassess-

Copies of Instructions listed in

the Information Bulletin may be

obatined by writing directly to
the originating headquarters.

all military, civilian and German personnel
on detached service outside of Berlin | —
From OMGUS letter 320.2 (PO), Jan. 20,

Execution of MG Law 59

Announcement has been made that one of
the objectives and basic policies of the
United States Government in the occupation
of Germany is that persons and organizations
deprived of their property as a result of
National-Socialist persecution should either
have their property returned or be compen-
sated therefor and that persons who suffered
personal damage or injury through National-
Socialist persecution should receive indem-
nification in German currency,

Military Government Law No. 59, promul-
gated Nov, 10, 1947, and implementation
thereof, is designed to accomplish the resti-
tution of identifiable property in the exe-
cution of such United States Government
objective and basic policy.

Certain administrative requirements and
adequate financial allowances are deamed
essential for the proper execution of the
Program for restitution, as set forth above.

On the basis of a recent survey, deficien-
cies in these respects have been noted, in
varying degrees, in the respective states of
the US Zone.

Appropriate instructions will therefore be
issued to the ministers president to effect
all_necessary corrective action ‘which will
facilitate proper organization and admini-
stration of the restitution program and the
speedy disposition of claims under MG Law

(0 59,

Particular attention should be directed to
the following matters:

1, Responsibility for administration and
supervision should be vested in a competent
administrative official.

2. Sufficient qualified personnel should be
authorized to cope with present and future
work-load incident to the execution of the
restituticn programs in state central offices,
restitution agencies and restitution courts.

3. Adequacy of facilities and supplies for
state central offices, restitution agencies and
restitution courts must be assured.

4, Adequate budgetary allowances to meet

requirements in personnel, facilities and
supplies ‘must be assured ‘through specific
financial appropriations and allocations.

The foregoing matters represent the present
important areas in which deficiencies have
been noted, which require priority in consi-

deration and varying degree of corrective
action. '
Specific recommendations for corrective

action will be submitted through functional
channels by Property Control and External
Assets Branch, Property Division, OMGUS
headquarters, which is charged with over-all
administrative supervision of the restitution

ment of Standard Values of Real Estate as of
21 June 1948" (as amended), BICO/Sec(49)31,
BICO, 18 Jan. 1949.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 74, ‘Second
Ordinance concerning the Temporary Structure

of the Economic Administration in the
Combined Area," BICO/Sec(49)26/1, BICO,
18 Jan. 1949,

Economic Council Ordinance No. 77, ‘‘Ordin-
ance to Ensure the Supply of Fertilizers and
Seed,"’ BICO/Sec(49)27/1, BICO, 18 Jan. 1949.

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin No. 3, Hq
EUCOM, 19 Jan. 1949. Covers Jan. 10 to 14.

Presentation of Picturama ‘The New Ame-
rica” in Germany, AG 001 (IS), OMGUS,
19 Jan. 1949.

Revised Reporting Procedure, AG 320.2 (PO),
OMGUS, 20 Jan. 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 76, ISD
OMGUS, 20 Jan. i949. .
News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 77, ISD

OMGUS, 22 Jan. 1949,

Developments at Home, Troop I&E Bulletin,
Vol. 4, No.4, TI&E Office, EUCOM, 23 Jan
1949,

Information Bulletin, No. 153, CO OMGUS,
25 Jan. 1949.

Instructions

rogram under MG Law No 59. From OMGUS
letter AG 101.6 (PD), Jan. 12.

Static Security

Static security provided MG_ installations
was discontinued by Jan. 31. Industrial Po-
lice or organized civilian guards (DP) may
be provided for securitiy of such installa-
tions only when required to cope with an
emergency of a temporary nature, and pro-
vided such service is requested by Military
Government, — From EUCOM cable SC-23176.

Marine Express Service
A marine express service known as ‘Ma-
rinex’* has been established between eastera
US ports and the United kingdom and Bre-
merhaven. This service is based on having
high priority cargo top-stowed aboard vessels
at ports of embarkation for high priority
discharge at ports of debarkation and giving
such cargo priority in handling and shipping
to and from ports of embarkation, — From

EUCOM weekly directive No. 49,

Teletypewriter Service
In compliance with Department of the Army
directives, EUCOM Headquarters is endeavor-
ing to improve the world-wide teletypewriter
service of the Army command and administra-
tive network. The users of the network can
assist by exercising care in the composition
of the text of messages and in the assignment
of the precedence classification.

The precedence classification of night
messages (prosign NM) will be assigned to
routine messages that do not require an
immediate answer. Messages of a routine
nature addressed to the Department of the
Army or to points in the Zone of Interior
which, due to the difference in time, cannot
be acted upon prior to the close of the current
business day, will be assigned the precedence
classification’ of night messages. — From
EUCOM Weekly Directive 52.

Travel of Dependents

The application procedure for transportation
of dependents prescribed in EUCOM Circular
22, 1948 will be explained to all personnel
with dependents in the United States prior
to their departure for leave in the United
States. Appiclations for the travel of depend-
ents must be submitted to EUCOM_bead-
quarters at least four weeks prior to depart-
ure for leave in order that the dependents
may be placed on the proper dependents’
travel priority list and reported to the
Department of the Army. Personnel will also
be informed that they will not contact the
Department of the Army regarding their
dependents’ travel orders but will await notific-
ation of approval from the appropriate Zi
Army commander at their leave address. —
From EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 52.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF

--- Page 36 ---
UGCUPIED AREAS OF GERMANY

(Coenmark ea

FOREN

ne
; ree
: oe
; Pe
{ i
fl MECKLENBURG c
ee ee
fi Bee \
M
: BREMEN 8
‘) ( OMG BREMEN BRANDENBURG
a
<
jon \ N\
Bs 4 LOWER SAXONY
‘ ig BRITISH SECTOR,
; SIPARTITE BOARD
i 7~ wangven Vee eae eae |
ae
BRUNSWICK CINCEUR ALLIED KOMMANDATURA
iy BiPARTITE BonRO
8 MAGDEBURG OMG BERLIN SECTOR (
Z
m
=
“3 S :
y ESSEN zm SACHSEN-ANHALT .
°
Pt OR a
sd N TH RHINE S LEIPZIG
7, WESTPHALIA
DRESDEN
u COLgGNE is By
ES SAXONY LL aes
on COBLENZ :
WIESBADEN ’
is Be) OMg"HESSE ,
ite °, ;
(3 BiRANTITe GoGROL OFFICE AY :
\ 2 38s Sas BAMBERG :
} re) RHINELAND- ‘
ca PALATINATE ;
a gZ ass <
\
NUREMBERG y
Mi SMe ¢
ocowe
REGENSBURG CNRS
\
/
BAVARIA ——
“
AUGSBURG
FREIBURG Oho Savaria
z
"i
r
roy cariiscl
ef
ig
ud {
a (
i ~ mt DURES SP
a ere re
/
oe SWITZERLAND oe ITALY ae AUSTRIA
y J e
Bd

--- Page 37 ---
strung at night :
maneuvers (US Army photo)

aarprce

t i)