--- Page 2 ---
WAGAZINE OF US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

e

OPERATION SHOWERS

=

NO. 161 MAY 17, 1949
THIS ISSUE:
Tripartite High Commission New Horizons in Education

Institute of Public Affairs Military Security Board

--- Page 3 ---
| ae

ADVIESERS

v
FIELD oOFEF

US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

F=f -i=——t- fn

‘

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

OPERATION SHOWERS—During the

U, F =
Bie tenn ol Gormuy Hwe MILITARY GOVERNMENT
an Army photographer caught this

view of an F-47 over Stein Castle in
Bavaria as the fighter plane was

carrying out a strafing problem. A INFORMATI
pictorial story of the maneuvers,
labeled “Operation Showers," appears
on pages 24-25. ( )

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-

Issue No. i61 May 17, 1949
ey ey 3 Parmany (ye) President Truman Lauds General Clay's Work. . . . . 2
Beg cissemins Hon oF aur Any eine Institute of Public Affairs... ......... 3
formation concerning the policies, Article by Dr. Kurt Glaser
regulations, instructions, operations Formula for Peace—Military Security Board. . .... 5
and activities of Military Government Article by Maj. Gen. J. P. Hodges
and affiliated organizations. nae Cvosecrd e ENT RTO at Chiemsee” =. 57
Editorial Offices Employee Utilization—A New Personnel Approach . . . 9
Directors Building, Room 1050 Article by Paul G, Luizeier
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin Insult Law—Gives Special Protection to Officials . . . 11
Tel.: 42227, 42252, 42923 Civil Service Reform—Assurance of Democratic Opportunity 13
oe ‘ Address by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN
earor Ware ry al Practicing Democracy—Youth Leader Studies US Methods 15
Editorial Writer Marjorie A.Yahraes Article by Willy Birkelbach
Editorial Writer Christian J. Goll Jedermann Program—Shoes, Clothes for Every Man . . 17
Editorial Assistant Elizabeth Hein Personnel Changes Are Announced ......... 18
Mailing address: Danube Bridge at Ingolstadt is Reopened . . . . . . . 19
infomation BuleHE Polish DP’s Return Home (pictorial) . . . . . ee ke?
Control Office, OMGUS High Commission—Agreement for Tripartite Gout peste |
Beri Garman Press and Radio Conmients icietatnmue se 2° 23
i “Operations Showers" (pictorial) . . . .... 4... 24
APO 742, US Army Occupation. Activities (2.4) .)555 27. 6
Correspondence in the United States US Zone Activities (pictorial) . . ... emer heey) 2)
concerning articles and distribution Text of Occupation Statute for West Conan) Piimeetircce. <s)
should be made to: Editorial Opinion in German Press . . . 31
Reports & Analysis Branch Report on Germany—Part 4: European Recovery Sracrent 33

Part 5: Food for the Occupied Areas 34
Excerpt from Report of Secretary of the Army

Potsdam to Bonn—Chronology of Political Development . 38

Civil Affairs Division
Department of the Army
Washington 25, D. C.

4 Bonn as Capital—Chosen by Parliamentary Council. . . 43

Printing and distribution of the Excerpts from Official Instructions, Announcements . . . 46
Magazine is handled by the Publi- Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents . . . . 48
Cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
Cifically noted, is permitted with credit OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)
to the Information Bulletin and the CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH

author or source cited with the article. BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
SSN ARIA

Pres. Truman Lauds

General Clay’s Work

Grea by President Truman released by the White House
on May 3:

“Four years ago on March 20, 1945, President Roosevelt an-
nounced the selection of Gen. Lucius D. Clay for service in Military
Government in Germany. Historically the Army has had a great
tradition of constructive achievement in the government of occupied
areas, such as Cuba, Puerto Rico, and Philippines. But nothing that
Americans had hitherto been called on to deal with approached the
grim prospect presented by the moral and physical collapse of Ger-
many and the resulting unexampled chaos.

“Gen. Clay was selected for this task on his record of tireless
effort, his firmness and his fairness, his quality as a soldier, and
finally his understanding of and devotion to the American spirit of
freedom.

“On May 15, 1949, I am acceding to his repeated request to be
released from his task. Several times before it had been thought
that his request could be granted, but in recurring emergencies
I felt that his character and abilities were essential to the task in
Germany to which we were committed. He could not be spared.

“The work of moral and economic reconstruction among the
Germans in the Western Zone has proceeded to a point where they
are about to obtain a greatly enlarged measure of political and
economic responsibility. Gen. Clay has now completed a prodigious
task of administration.

“As a soldier he has raised the morale and efficiency of our
troops in Germany to levels in which he and the country can take
justifiable pride.

“His name will always be associated with one of the toughest
tasks and accomplishments of American history. He deserves and
will receive the thanks of the American people.

“Gen, Huebner and Gen. Hays, Gen. Clay's Military and Military
Government Deputies, will carry on his work pending the appoint-
ment of a civilian High Commissioner.”

sal 0000

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 6 ---
Institute of Public Affairs

HE Institute of Public Affairs* is

a new kind of organization based
on the idea of bringing Germany back
into western culture — with Germans
themselves taking an active role in
the process.

Although the institute, opened in
December 1948, is strictly a German
undertaking, Military Government
has played a vital part in its devel-
opment. In turn, it acts as a German
partner with the Civil Administration
Division in cultural exchange pro-
grams relating to government and
public administration.

Besides cultural exchanges, the in-
stitute has an equally important job
in reorienting German public life out-
side and alongside the official organs
of Government. In Germany, as ia
other countries, political life to a
large degree is shaped by non-go-
vernmental organizations. Sometimes
these groups lobby a bill through to
legislation; or, they may try to in-
fluence the individual directly in his
personal, social or economic behavior.

Likewise, some of these groups
devote their energies toward ad-
vancing the special interest of a par-
ticular profession, industry or*econo-
mic class. Other groups operate in the
interests of the general public, such
as activity in the field of public ad-
ministration and local government, as
well as concerning problems of hous-
ing, public health, welfare, statistics
and personnel administration.

The Institute of Public Affairs was
established by a group of associations
of this latter type who wished to
Coordinate their activities so that they
will serve the public interest as a
whole. The more progressive people
in the German organizations admit
that there is a danger of becoming
too specialized, of ignoring factors
outside one’s particular field and of
Slipping into pressure-group behavior.
They welcome the institute as a
Means of overcoming this tendency.

The Civil Administration Division
Was originally planned to establish a

“Institut zur Férderung éffentlicher Ange-

a beiten, Liaison and Security Building,
5 Bockenheimer Anlage, Frankfurt/Main.

MAY 17, 1949

by Dr. Kurt Glaser
Liaison Representative
Institute of Public Affairs
Civil Administration Div., OMGUS

joint German-American Institute, gov-
erned by a mixed board of directors.
After consultation with representatives
of German associations this idea was
abandoned, since it was considered
too difficult to secure acceptance and
eventual financial support for it from
the German public.

Instead, eight German associations
in the field of public administration
were invited to take part in a meeting
held in Frankfurt on Nov. 28, 1948.
There, it was suggested that the Ger-
mans take the initiative in founding
an Institute of Public Affairs as a
purely German organization,

-Because most of these associations
were unable to make any substantial
financial contributions for such an
institute, the Civil Administration Di-
vision offered funds from its Deutsche
mark reorientation allotment for a
limited period. In. addition, office
space and facilities were provided as
well as a library of American and
European books and _ periodicals
purchased with dollar reorientation
funds. At the same time, it was made
clear to the German representatives
that they eventually must finance the
institute from German sources and
that the should start planning for the
time, perhaps in several years, when

Military Government withdraws its
financial support.

The German representatives accepted
the offer and established the founding
committee for the Institute of Public
Affairs. This committee, which will
become the membership assembly or
governing body of the institute,
consists of one representative of each
of the following associations:

Deutscher Staedtetag
of large German cities)

Deutscher Staedtebund (association
of small German cities)

Deutscher Landkreistag (association
of German rural counties)

Deutscher Gemeindeverband (asso-
ciation of German rural
ties)

Deutscher Verband fiir Wohnungs-
wesen, Staedtebau und Raumplanung
(German association for housing, city
construction and spatial planning)

Deutscher Verein fiir oeffentliche
und private Fuersorge (German asso-
ciation for public and private welfare
activities)

Arbeitsgemeinschaft fuer
heitswesen (public health
association)

Deutsche Statistische Gesellschaft
(German statistical society),

(association

communi-

Gesund-
research

The committee began immediately to
prepare for the formal establishment
of the institute as a registered asso-
ciation and agreed to move into its
new quarters on Dec. 15, 1948. The

(Continued on next page)

Dr. Reschke, delegate of the German County Union briefing Institute members in preparing
first hand survey of housing procedures in 11 German cities. Observing at the left are

Professor Harvey Mansfield and Dr. Glaser.

3

PiO OMGH PHOTO

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
only basic requirements made by the
Civil Administration Division, and
readily accepted by the German asso-
ciations, were that the institute have
a democratic form of organization,
that its membership be restricted to
associations themselves democrati-
cally governed and operating in the
public interest, and the activities of
the institute be non-profit, non-parti-
san, and dedicated to the furtherance
of democratic and effective govern-
ment,

At the various meetings of the
founding committee there was con-
siderable discussion of what the in-
stitute should do, reflecting the fact
that the Germans have no such clear
concept of the field of "public affairs”
as that in the United States, Since it
was important that the founding of
the institute should itself be a lesson
in democracy, the Civil Administra-
tion Division let the Germans settle
this question themselves, The com-
mittee finally decided upon the fol-
lowing fields of activity:

Constitution and Law

Administration and Organization

Public Finance

Public Order and Safety

General Personnel Matters of the
Public Service

~ Social and Welfare Problems

Public Health

Spatial Planning,
Settlement

Community Enterprises and Pub-
lic Utilities

Statistics,

Housing and

The type of activity in the above
fields is described in the by-laws as
“cross-fertilizing the work of the
member associations by continual ex-
change of ideas and coordination of
their programs by voluntary collabo-
ration, as well as lending depth to
these activities by scientific research.”
The institute specifically intends to pre-
sent results of its work to government
and people and thereby promote the
development of a public life based
upon the interests of the community
as a whole,

The membership assembly of the
institute, which is able to meet fre-
quently because of its small size,
determines the general policies and
program, adopts the annual budget
and elects the director of the institute

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and the executive secretary who -also
serves as deputy director. The com-
mittee has, with CAD concurrence,
taken its time in selecting the di-
rector, in order to find a man who
combines practical government ex-
perience with the research qualifica-
tions necessary to develop and carry
out a program meeting the urgent
social needs of Germany today.

It was agreed at the outset that the
institute should avoid setting up a
large overhead organization, but
should instead base its program on

Dr. Glaser is a graduate of Harvard
University, receiving his Bachelor of
Arts degree in 1935 and a Doctor of
Philosophy in Government and Econo-
mics in 1941. He entered government
service in 1938 as an administrative
analyst with the Department of Agri-
culture and later became Chief of
Personnel Methods with the Social
Security Board before coming to Europe

in March, 1946,
Since June 1946,
Dr. Glaser has been
with the Govern-
mental — Structures
) Branch, Civil Ad- *
ministration Divis-
ion, OMGUS, and
is currently as-

signed as CAD
liason _represen-
tative with the

Institute of Public Affairs in Frankfurt.
He is the author of: ‘Administrative
Procedure” (1941), “Art and Technique
of Administration in German Ministries“
(1940) written in collaboration with Dr.
Arnold Brecht, professor of social
science at the New School of Social
Research, New York, the Military
Government publications “Land and
Local Government in the US Zone“
(1947) and “Comparative Federal Con-
stitutions” (1948).

the activities of its member associa-
tions. As an organizational device to
meet this need it was decided that
each member association could esta-
blish a permanent office at the in-
stitute, consisting of a delegate and
his secretary,

The delegates, who are profession-
al specialists in the subject matter
of their respective associations, do
most of the actual work in research
projects sponsored by the institute.
The expenses of the permanent staff
are carried on the institute budget.
The institute also has funds for the
employment of research personnel for
projects which are too large to be
done by the delegates or which re-

4

quire special qualifications or ex-
perience.

The institute did not wait for the —
appointment of a permanent director
to begin actual work. Within the first
week after the delegates moved into ~
the building, they formed themselves
into an executive committee which _
plans the day-to-day activities of the
institute and distributes the work
assignments. This committee has al-
ready developed an extensive research
program on the economic and social
problems of refugees in Germany,
numerous sections of which are al-
ready being worked upon,

In setting up this program it was
decided to do two things: (1) to com-
bine the results of numerous separate
investigations made in various parts
of Germany during the last four years
on particular phases of the problem
and (2) to concentrate on relief and
rehabilitation measures for refugees
which the Germans can accomplish
themselves without waiting for help
from abroad,

Another project underway is an in-
vestigation of organization and pro-
cedure in public agencies, with the
objective of cutting out unnecessary —
operations and abolishing superfluous
agencies altogether. The committee
decided to begin with a procedure
which has affected almost every cit-
izen at one time or another; the pro-
cessing of applications for a settle-
ment permit by the housing offices.

The institute is also making a start on
an extensive publications program.
This program will be directed not at the
expert, but at the average citizen. Em-
phasis is being placed on a program
of readable pamphlets, like the public
affairs pamphlets in the United States,
designed to enlist the interest of the
average citizen and get him to think
intelligently on such subjects as civil
service, the election system and the
new constitution. In addition, the in-
stitute proposes to support various
publications sponsored by its member
associations, such as a series of text-
books for social workers and the Ger-
man statistical archives, which befor
the war had an international reputa-
tion,

The institute is also assuming in-
creasing responsibility in planning

(Continued on page 37)

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 8 ---
Formula for Peace
—- The Military Security Board

S THE WEST German people
gradually take over Military
Government functions, the question
of military security arises — and what
role a recently established organi-
zation, the Military Security Board,
will play in guaranteeing a lasting
peace,

The signing of the Occupation
Statute and the reconciling of differen-
ces over the German federal constitu-
tion have opened the way to political
responsibility. At the same time, the
relaxation of controls over prohibited
industries and the resurgence of pro-
duction in the western zones indicates
that Germany is moving toward more
and more economic power, Can secu-
rity against a revival of German mili-
tarism be maintained in
changing times?

these

Used in the sense, the term ‘‘secu-
rity’ implies that the trend of thought,
the trend of production and the trend
of living of the German people will
not be directed toward warlike ends.
Mental and moral demilitarization, as
well as physical and industrial dis-
armament, is needed for security.

The objective of the United States
and her victorious Allies is to ensure
that Germany neyer again will threaten
her neighbors or the peace of the
world. This will be ensured only if
Germans learn to think, believe and
act in the terms of democracy, peace
and the rights of others.

But, unless we take an active part
in teaching democratic principles and
Suppressing aggressive nationalism,
German psychology, molded by history,
May be expected to react to defeat
after this war as it reacted after other
defeats, Such a change in the German
People will have to come from
within — it will have to be a moral
and spiritual change. This does not
imply destruction of patriotism but

does mean the destruction of mili-
tarism,

HE CRUSHING DEFEAT at Jena
in 1806, which was followed by
the Treaty of Tilsit in 1807, brought

MAY 17, 1949

Article

by Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges
US Commissioner
Military Security Board

the great European power, created by
Frederick the Great and his father,
Frederick Wilhelm I, to an end. The
treasury was depleted and the army
disorganized. Yet even while the
negotiations at Tilsit were still in
progress, a Commission for Military
Reorganization was set up, the army
was purged, the higher command re-

War Department exercised such in-
genuity in getting around the terms
of the treaty that it succeeded in
seven short years in building up a
national army which was able to play
an important part in the overthrow
of Napoleon.

Immediately after the first World
War, inter-Allied commissions were
appointed to control the execution of
the terms of the Treaty of Versailles.
Members of these commissions or stb-
commissions thereof were authorized
to proceed to anywhere in Germany

The three commissioners of the Military Security Board—(left to right)) Engineer General
Etienne Paskiewicz, French; Maj. Gen. V. J. E. Westropp, British; and Maj. Gen, James

P. Hodges, American, discuss an organizational topic

juvenated, and a system of universal
military service planned.

The literature of the period imme-
diately after this defeat reverberates
with the echoes of the efforts made
to rouse the nation to revolt and cast
off the yoke fastened upon it. During
this period the plan was to profess
complaisance outwardly but to hood-
wink and build surreptitiously until
Prussia was strong enough to defy.
The terms of the treaty were suffi-
ciently stringent to make evasion
difficult. Nevertheless, the Prussian

5

(US Army Photograph}

whenever required. All facilities were
to be given and the German govern-
ment was to attach a qualified repre-
sentative to each commission to re-
ceive instructions and to supply in-
formation, German laws were to be
modified in accordance with the
clauses of the treaty and necessary
administrative measures were to be
taken for enforcement.

The Germans, however, profited by
the mistakes that the Allies made in
preparing the peace. The over-elabo-

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
rate details of the Treaty of Ver-
sailles led the Germans to infer that
anything not specifically forbidden
was permitted. The loose drafting of
certain articles and the differences
between the French and English texts
enabled them to twist the interpreta-
tion to suit their secret aims and to
indulge in legalistic hair-splitting
which the Allies were not always firm
enough to reject.

HIS TIME the victors are deter-
mined that history does not re-
peat itself. The system of security
established takes into consideration
the mistakes made after these last
two wars and is molded accordingly.

The Military Security Board was
conceived at the London Conference
and came into being with the appoint-
ment of its Commissioners by the
three Military Governors on Dec. 10,
1948.* In accordance with the London
Agreement it was established to en-
sure observance of clearly-worded
laws regarding disarmament and de-
militarization. Its task is that of
ensuring that the development of
general activity in Germany, the pur-
pose of which is economic and politi-
cal recovery, is not deflected from its
peaceful aims, and does not create
significant war potentials. This does
not mean needless prohibitions and
limitations upon industry, restricting
education, or controlling the birth

* See Page 46, this issue of the Information
Bulletin for text of directive establishing the
Military Security Board.

rate. Some people see a “war po-
tential'’ in everything that is pro-
duced in Germany.

HE ROLE of the Board is twofold:

It must, first of all, ensure the
harmonization and completion of all
the legislation required in the field
of security. For this purpose it will
base its review on previously-estab-
lished = quadripartite laws and
directives.

It will then have to ensure the
regular implementation of laws and
regulations thus published, by means
of inspections conducted in accordance
with certain rules. The inspectors of
the Board will be empowered to
make inspections of plants and estab-
lishments. If advisable, they may
make these inspections without giving
prior notice to the management of
the plant.

The Military Security Board, by the
terms of reference laid down by the
Military Governors, is essentially an
advisory and fact-finding agency.
Through statistical analyses and on-
the-spot inspections it obtains facts
upon which to base reports and make
recommendations to the Military
Governors. The Board does not
intrude in the area of either judicial
or executive authority. It recommends
but does not promulgate laws; it
observes and reports, but neither
enforces nor prosecutes.

In the military field it will ensure
disarmament and guard against the
tesurgence of military organizations

ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MILITARY SECURITY BOARD

THE COMMISSION

COMMITTEE OF DEPUTIES

SECRETARIAT

MiuTARY OWvISION

INDUSTRIAL DIVISION

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH DIVISION

[rene | _ onmise

——

INSPECTION GROUPS
(ROUTINE AND SPECIAL)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and the militaristic spirit; in the
fields of industry and_ scientific
research, it will make sure that no
activity is directed towards war ob-
jectives.

The general structure of the Mili-
tary Security Board corresponds to
this partition of duties and includes,
in addition to the directing bodies
(the Commission and the Committee
of Deputies) three specialized Divis-
ions: Military, Industrial and Scienti-
fic Research. Inspection groups from
these Divisions will make investiga-
tions in the field. A Secretariat is in
charge of the administrative function-
ing of the Board.

HE COMMISSION consists of

three general officers appointed
by and representing the respective
Military Governors.

The Deputies to the Commissioners
form a permanent committee at the
headquarters of the Board. It is their
job to direct and coordinate the work
of the Divisions.

Within each Division, each power
(US, UK and France) maintains its
own national element. These elements
operate on a coordinated basis, Each
Division is responsible, in its sphere,
for the adequacy of existing regulatory
measures, for inspections to ensure
compliance therewith, and for re-
commendations to the Commission
regarding violations discovered.

Since its creation last December,
the Board has been engaged in study-

ing its tasks and° responsibilities
with a view to determining its
detailed internal organization and

operating procedures. In so doing, it
has completed much of the prerequisite
work in connection with the review

and codification of legislation
pertinent to disarmament and de-
militarization.

At the present time, surveillance
duties of ithe Divisions are being
performed as in the past, by the
various agencies of Military Govern-
ment. Transfer of these duties ito the
Board is to be accomplished gradually
so as to avoid the mistake of tearing
down the old machine before the new
one is built. For this reason, key
personnel in many instances are
wearing two hats pending the time
when they will be assigned to full
time duty with the Board. + END

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 10 ---
New Horizons in Education

— — International Conference at Chiemsee

HE EDUCATIONAL reconstruction

in a divided world, the theme
of the welcoming address by Dr.
Alonzo Grace, director of the
Education and Cultural Relations
Divison, OMGUS, was the motif of
the five-day International Conference
on Comparative Education, held at
Chiemsee, Bavaria, late in April.

More than 200 educators from Great
Britain, France, Austria, Luxembourg,
Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands,
Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Switzer-
land, UNESCO and the United States
attended the sessions from April 25
to 29.

The planning of the conference, both
as to selection of problems for dis-
cussion and technique for selection,
was predicated on certain basic
assumptions which, whether right or
wrong, should at the outset be briefly
and frankly stated:

1, That education must be integrated
and related to the needs and require-
ments of society and that the patterns
and systems of education should be
constantly reexamined with reference
to the requisites of an ever-changing
world (education both as to method
and content).

2, That many of the most important
problems and needs of the countries
of Western Europe are similar, and
successful solutions which are deve-
loped in one country may have
applicability in other countries.

3, That one of the fundamental
requirements of society and democracy
must be its ability to grow and
develop and that solutions which were
valid for conditions and circumstances
of an earlier period may have lost
their validity as conditions and cir-
cumstances have changed.

The summation of the Chiemsee Inter-
national Comparative Education Con-
ference was prepared and delivered by
Dr. Milton E. Muelder, deputy director,
of the Education & Cultural Relations
Division, OMGUS, at the close of the
five-day meeting. A transcript of the
address, adapted for magazine publi-
cation, appears here.

MAY 17, 1949

Summary

by Dr. Milton E. Muelder

Deputy Director, Education and
Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS

4, That in the development of new
patterns and forms of education it is
better to mend rather than to rend.
That the inevitable laws of history,
namely, that of dynamic change and
continuity can be satisfied better by
evolution rather than revolutions.

5, That the solutions of problems
common the western society can be
attained more satisfactorily through
the creative and new thinking which
is stimulated and developed by joint
participation than dependence upon
ready-made solutions contained in
elaborate analyses of a few. The final
product which thus emerges and crys-
talizes is not the product or property
of any one individual, but the common
possession and conviction of the
participants. This is the reason why
the procedure of this conference
favored panel and group discussions
and restricted the function of addresses
to the statement of basic facts and
problems,

HERE WERE three major addresses

given on successive evenings.
Their subjects were the “Economic
and Social Crisis of Europe,” de-
livered by Dr.Bryn Hovde, director
of the New School for Social Research,
New York City; the “Philosophical
and Spiritual Crisis of Europe,” de-
livered by Dr. Conrad Bergendorff,
president of Augustana College,
Moline, Ill., and the “Trend Toward
a United Europe,” delivered by Dr.
David White, chief of the Historical
Branch, OMGUS, Berlin.

OR EACH MAJOR ADDRESS a

general panel discussion was or-
ganized to allow participation and
discussion by the entire assembly on
those aspects of the philosophy of
education which are common to all
levels of education. The assembly was
regrouped in the afternoons into five

7 °

smaller bodies in order to discuss, for
a given field of education, the practical
implications of the common problems
and principles as they were brought
out in the addresses and the general
panel discussions. The fields of the
group discussions were as follows:

Group I. Adult Community Ed-
ucation

Group II, Elementary, Secondary &
Vocational Education

Group III. Higher Education

Group IV. Teacher Education

Group V, Youth Activities

An interesting thing about the
titles of the addresses, as well as the
addresses themselves, is the frequent
use of the word “crisis.” It is true
that the times were difficult but if
one were to judge only from the
documents of the convention, one
would be likely to come to the con-
clusion that the period was the most
critical in the history of the world...

It must be said in extenuation, how-
ever, that the delegates reaffirmed in
many of the sessions that these crises
should not lead to pessimism, but
should be a stimulus to create a new
world. As one person remarked: “The
crises of our time constitute the op-
portunities of our time.”

Te CRISES were thought of as
not limited to one field or phase
of society, but as cutting across
the whole complex of society, Their
resolution would have to be found
on a correspondingly broad front.
Mr. Olaf Bertolt, Worker's Education
Organization, Copenhagen, Denmark,
appropriately asked that the obligations
and responsibilities of education, with
reference to groups outside of the
formal education institutions, should
be carefully considered and employed.
Mr. Theodor Baeuerle, minister of
church and education of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, reminded the delegates in
simple and direct language, that Ger-
many went to its disaster, not for
lack of learning but for the neglect
of things of the heart and_ spirit.
Education dare not, then, concern
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
itself with learning just for learning’s
sake, but must be related to certain
basic values—values nonetheless for
their being stated by some in spiritual
terms and by others in secular terms.

The difference in the terms in which
the values were stated had a profound
effect upon the approach the del-
egates made to the analysis of the
social, economic and political problems
which they faced. The difference,
stated in its most opposed form, was
the reference to absolutes on the one
hand and to the pragmatic on the
other.

It should not be thought that this
difference was only one of words or
of method. The difference had already
expressed itself concretely in political
machinery which split the world into
two camps, East and West. The con-
flict had not reached the stage of
declared war, but it was none the Jess
recognized for what it was—a war,
a “cold war.”.

Even in the West, whieh was
presumably united in its aims, there
was a conflict. This conflict, too, was
recognized as not yet having destroyed
the social equilibrium of the West,
but its potentialities to do so were
admitted. This inner western conflict
was expressed in the terms, “right”
and “‘left.”

Dr. Grace proposed that this struggle
of ideologies was not basically in the
realm of economics and politics, but
between spiritual value and materialism.
But what the consequences might be
of the failure to solve social and
economic problems upon the
tellectual and spiritual content of our
society was not generally discussed
except from the floor by the Rev.
George Higgins, visiting consultant,
Religious Affairs Branch, OMG Bavaria,
who pointedly stated:

“Unless we in the United States and
you in Europe realize that the average
working man speaking through his
trade unions is determined to have
an equal voice, we are headed for
very serious troubles, He is not going
to take leadership from the so-called
superior classes; he is going to play
the determining role in the new
society. Unless the religious-minded
people of Europe, the Christians of
Europe and the so-called doctrinaire

in-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

socialists, can arrive at a better under-
standing on cultural, religious and
other issues of that type, Europe is,
in my opinion, headed for a vacuum,
a vacuum which has been filled over
a period of the past few years with
the same thing, namely, Marxist
Communism. Unless the western
tradition has something better to offer
in the field of justice, this meeting
and all others are rather a waste of
time.”

Dr. Hovde's thesis that social
problems were, in fact, more funda-
mental in character than the economic
ones, and that the demands for

*

economic change were to satisfy cer-
tain social wants, went unchallenged.
He submitted that solutions to social
demands and wants may be found in
the pragmatic approach of experiment
and science, “keeping in mind the
ultimate goal of the good of society,
protecting all and serving all in the
best interests of all humanity.”

It was suggested from the floor
that in the. United States, with its
problem of racial justice that unless
man was convinced on spiritual and
philosophical grounds of racial justice,
he would not be convinced by any

(Continued on page 44)

Discussion Group Leaders Summarize Ideas

Gunnar Hirdman, executive secre-
tary, Workers Education Organiza-
tion, Stockholm, Sweden: In countries
which are democratic, the State can
and should assume responsibility for
the provision of consultative services
in adult education. Such services
can be of great assistance in the
furtherance of adult education and
can be completely free of the ele-
ments of control and interference.

Amelie Hamaide, director of De
Croly School, Brussels, Belgium: The
child must be liberated; he must be
educated to understand the economic
and social problems of life; and he
must have equality and the oppor-
tunity to share the same rights to
education. Teaching must based on
scientific facts, on experimentation,
permitting the child to actively and
personally participate... The school
must be transformed into a com-
munity where we can consider the
personality of every one in the inter-
est of social life. It must be a true

society where each will have his
responsibilities, duties, charges
We must provide for the child

teachers who understand his needs
and who by their example of a
sincere, tolerant life, try to attain
the spiritual life which forms true
human beings.

Dr. Erwin Stein, minister of church
and education, Hesse: The universi-
ties have the responsibility to use
the whole of their research for the
spiritual welfare of society. They

8

need a clear understanding of the
ideas which are compatible or
incompatible with the dignity of
freedom of man ... The freedom of
the individual is conditioned by the
essential freedom of others. No one
person is ‘in possession of truth,
which can be reached by different
methods and approaches.

Dr, Elizabeth Rotten, vice chairman,
New Education Fellowship, Saamen,

Switzerland: Elementary teachers
should receive better scientific
training and vocational teachers—

in view of their significance to the
nation as a whole—should be givea
more respect. Educators should have
a better knowledge of economic and
social functions outside the school
and should have the opportunity to
undertake active and constructive
work in these fields,

Dr. Kurt Berger, official in charge
of youth culture, Kassel (Regierungs-
Referent fuer Jugendpflege): The State
should grant financial aid to youth
groups without involving any spiri-
tual interference. Non-organized youth
should receive the same assistance
and facilities as organized youth,
Teachers should be brought into
touch with the problems confronting
youth during their non-school hours
and closer cooperation should be
established between schools and fami-
lies. The aim of building a unified
Europe can only be achieved if the
youth of Europe be inspired... to
feel themselves as Europeans beyond
their national limits.

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 12 ---
Employee Utilization

MPLOYEE UTILIZATION is a pro-

gram of personnel management
which seeks to select and place the
right person in the right job at the
right time and to retain him as a
satisfied and satisfactory worker by
developing and using his highest
skills.

When the merging of placement,
recruitment and employee relations
into a new unit to be known as the
Employee Utilization Section (See
Charts A and B), was announced by
the OMGUS personnel officer, many
MG employees were under the mis-
taken impression that there would
follow a curtailment of numerous long-
accepted personnel services.

This, however, is not the case. In
fact, employee utilization widens the
base of many essential personnel
services and brings them closer to
the employee through the effective
use of the employee's supervisor.
Employee utilization does not intro-
duce any radical innovations into the
field of personnel. It is, instead, a
new method of operation or a new
approach to personnel management.

Since the new Utilization Section
was established the personnel engaged
in OMGUS employee relations, place-
ment and recruitment have been going
through an intensive period of. cross-
training to prepare them to offer a
coordinated program on the operating
level. By pooling the “know-how’
they have gained since the origin of
a civilian MG organization in Ger-
many these employees are, through
this in-service training, developing
into technicians who will be able to
Serve as supervisors in each of these
areas of personnel administration.
At the completion of this transition
period, these representatives will
leave their desks and offices and
Spend the greater portion of their
time out with the operating units.

How did this new approach to per-
Sonnel management come about?
What was wrong with former De-

MAY 17, 1949

——A New

by Paul G. Lutzeier, Chief
Employee Utilization Section
Office of the Personnel Officer, OMGUS

partment of Army civilian personnel
organizational patterns?

During the war, most civilian per-
sonnel offices at military installations
in the United States were organized
with separate sections established for
administration, payroll, classification,
placement, employee relations and
training. All reported directly to the
personnel officer. Inasmuch as this
was a common pattern in many
government need was the immediate
a convenient formula to follow at a
time when the rapid expansion of
Army organizations made the ability
to produce immediate results the most
important factor to be considered.

During hostilities and in occupation
areas after the war the primary
government need was the immediate
recruitment and employment of per-
sonnel, This called for specialized
technicians and large placement
activities were authorized. After the
workers were on the payrolls it was
found that many needed to learn new
skills or required help in brushing
up or improving skills or talents they
already possessed. Training activities
assumed greater importance due to
these wartime needs and for that
reason became an important element
in the personnel program.

T THE SAME TIME the effective

management of vast numbers of
employees called for greater attention
to the employee-management relation-
ships involved in this complex and
expanding employment situation. A
need for good counseling, labor
relations, welfare help, recreation
assistance, grievance processing and
similar services became acute. Those
technicians engaged in the activity
known as employee relations there-
fore played an important role in
wartime and occupation area per-
sonnel management.

9

Personnel Approach

Many excellent programs functioned
under this plan, but in spite of its
“emergency” advantages it had cer-
tain weaknesses. Sometimes there
was competition for prestige among
the various programs and often the
sections operated as tight little units.
This resulted in a lack of cross-section
coordination and the piecemeal treat-
ment of operating problems, Further,
it was often difficult in the larger
installations for civilian personnel
officers to coordinate all programs
effectively due to the number of per-
sonnel section chiefs reporting to
them. All too often during these war
years, there was personnel  ad-
ministration for the sake of the per-
sonnel office rather than for the
operating officials and supervisors—
the men and women who actually
had the problems,

HESE obvious weaknesses, plus

the necessity for postwar staff
economy, largely motivated the deve-
lopment of what now is known as the
Employee Utilization program.

One of the first ideas advanced in
installations in the United States as
early as 1946 was the superimposing
of an Employees Utilization chief
over the Placement, Employee Re-
lations and Training Sections. This
idea was not accepted by OMGUS
since it was clear to those in charge
of personnel administration in Mili-
tary Government that it would merely
add another member to the staff and
not solve the basic problem.

True, it would have brought together
those personnel activities engaged in
handling people but it did little to
integrate the activity. Under the
approved OMGUS program those pre-
vious functions disappear completely
as separate sections and Employee
Utilization emerges as a program in
its own right. $

Thus, MG personnel activities in
Berlin and Frankfurt emerge as four
units: Administration, which deals
largely with paper; Classification,

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
CHART A — SEPARATE FUNCTIONS

CHART B — COMBINED FUNCTIONS

| 1 |

| f ]
ADM | | ciass | | TRNG [er ho} PL | [now | cLass | TRNG eu |
—j Ls . oa Job | aa) | i
Under organizational chart (A) the supervisor had to Abbreviations used in charts: CPO — Civilian Personnel

contact three separate personnel technicians.
Employee Utilization (B) these personnel service are
provided by one individual in on-the-job contacts.

which is concerned with positions;
and Employee Utilization and Train-
ing, which are interested in people.
However, it is the supervisor who
manages people, not the personnel
office. The responsibility of the Em-
ployee Utilization representative is
to assist and advise the men and
women who - supervise OMGUS
employees.

MONG the traditional respon-

sibilities of the supervisor in
dealing with his employees are to
plan the work, to establish which jobs
are needed, to place the worker into
the position, to instruct and evaluate
the employee, to inspect the work,
to assist and direct the employee and
to plan personnel changes. The super-
visor also must keep his workers
interested and satisfied by incentives,
fair evaluations, delegation of re-
sponsibility, development of team
spirit, maintenance of discipline and
by giving each employee the proper
credit for a job well done.

As a service to supervisors the
Employee Utilization representative
will coordinate his efforts with the
Administrative and Classification
Sections to ensure that a complete
personnel program is being presented
to supervisors.

However, in carrying out this pro-
gram no sound personnel services
are climinated or side-tracked. Such
previous employee relations and
placement activities as the employee
emergency loan fund, the processing
of marriage papers, the suggestion
and award program, community
formation service, awards and deco-
rations program, US _ recruiting
activities and related services wil!l

in-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Through

continue to be Employee

Utilization offices,

given in

This new Employee Utilization per-
sonnel management program is not
merely the sum total of previous
services offered in OMGUS by place-
ment, employee relations and train-
ing technicians. If it were it would
merely perpetuate the shortcomings
of the former program. The OMGUS
program will be tailored to meet the
needs of each organizational segment
and will attempt to meet directly
each problem as it arises within each
tnit of the organization.

HIS will be a challenge to the

Employee Utilization represen-
tative to know thoroughly his as-
signed organizational units, their jobs,
their operational problems and_ the
personalities involved. With _ this
knowledge he can assist in building
better personnel management through
each supervisor.

Employee Utilization places the
emphasis of personnel management
on the supervisor where it has always
belonged, and puts the personnel
representative in his proper position
of providing services to the super-
visor to assist him in his work. Under
ideal conditions, the employee will
never seek the personnel office; Em-
ployee Utilization representative will
come to the supervisor and his or-
ganization.

Whether this program will result
in a saving of time, paper work and
staff as well as promoting better
supervisor-employee relationships re-
mains to be demonstrated during the
coming months. There will be no
high-pressure approach. The Office of

10

Oifice, ADM — Administration, CLASS — Classification,
TRNG — Training, ER — Employee Relations, PL — Place-
ment, EU — Employee Utilization.

the Personnel Officer is not installing
a new program. It is merely setting
about to extend personal contacts
and to give added services at an
operating level. These changes cannot
and will not be made overnight but
the new course of action has been
set and approved.

In OMGUS. through this
approach to employee management,
it will be the common goal of Em-
ployee Utilization technicians and
supervisors to manage men and
women so that they can and want to
do their best work in the right job,
to utilize the employee's highest
skills and to help the worker develop
his talents to the highest point of
developability. Then . the personnel
man, the supervisor and the worker
can move together toward the suc-
cessful completion of the occupation
mission.

new

Books Repay for Former Aid

To repay Bavarian Catholics for
assistance given Catholics in the
United States from 1838 until 1922,
the Catholic library association in the
United States is shipping to Bavaria an
libraries thousands of books collected
in connection with the 1949 Catholic
book-week celebration. A_ special
shipment is intended for the ‘Wuerz-
burg seminary library, which was
totally destroyed.

Sudeten Transfers Completed

The last transfers of Sudeten Ger-
mans moving in groups from 'Czecho-
slovakia to the US Zone of Germany
were completed in December. Effec-
tive Jan, 1 all Sudeten Germans enter
the US Zone on an individual military
entry permit basis.

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 14 ---
Insult Law
— — Gives Special Protection to Officials

PRE NAZI German law which is

unique to United States officials
and which is frequently in incoked, is
the so-called “Insult Law’ of the Ger-
man Criminal Code operates often to
give special protection to government
officials. These special additions to the
Criminal Codesections, incorporated in
the Fourth Emergency Decree for the
Protection of Internal Peace of Dec.
8, 1931, read as follows:

“In the case of insult (Section 186
of the Code) if the injured person is
in public life and if the offensive fact
was publicly asserted or disseminated
and if the injured person was made
to appear unworthy of the trust
which he needs in his public activ-
ities, the punishment shall be im-
prisonment for not less than three
months, provided the offender was
evidently not in excusable good faith
as to the truth of the utterance.

“In the case of defamation (Section
187 of the Criminal Code) if the injured
person is in public life and if the
offensive fact was publicly asserted
or disseminated and if the injured
person was made to appear unworthy
of the trust which he needs in his
public activities, the punishment shall
be imprisonment for not less than six
months.

“In addition to the punishment in
the cases of Sections 1 and 2, and
independently of the compensatory
fine (Busse) to be imposed under
Section 188 of the Criminal Code, the
Court may impose a compensatory fine
not to exceed one-hundred thousand
Reichsmarks to be paid to the state
treasury.”

The Insult Law was recently given
a court test when it was brought
before the Hessian State Supreme
Court at Kassel on an appeal. The high
court declared the 1931 law was still
valid because it was set up in the
interest of democracy and has never
been rescinded. However, the state
Supreme court at Tuebingen, Wuert-
temberg-Hohenzollern, in the French
Zone, had previously handed down
an opposite ruling in a similar case.

MAY 17, 1949

N THE Hessian case, Hans Strue-

bing, president of the Kassel public
forum and former board member of
the Hesse Liberal Democratic Party,
had been sentenced Jast September to
four months in prison for publicly
accusing Georg A. Zinn, Hessian
justice minister, of deliberately delay-
ing prosecution in an embezzlement
case by withholding the files from the
prosecutor. In deciding the appeal,
the State Supreme Court declared this
accusation was not true.

Military Government officials, in
observing the application of the law,
has found the public to be reluctant to
criticize anyone in an official position
for fear of hearing the familiar civil-
servant retort: "I must report what
you have just said to my superiors
(for possible action under these sec-
tions of the German Criminal Code)."’

Likewise, many German officials,
including policemen, are now cautious
about invoking the Insult Law because
of the current unsettled economic and
political conditions. However, there
are many recent examples of resort to
the law to silence irate citizens.

The city housing office of the city of
Stuttgart requisitioned an apartment
under the pretense that Military
Government had requested the requi-
sition and then assigned it toa German
family. The former resident filed a
complaint with the Supreme Admini-
strative Court, which decided that the
action of the housing office was un-
lawful.

HE HOUSING office would not
permit the former occupant to
move back. The latter addressed a letter
to the mayor, branding the official
behavior as “stupid pettifoggery.”
The mayor, and the minister of interior
filed a charge that the writer of the
letter had insulted an official, as
defined by the Insult Law, and the
local courts of Stuttgart sentenced
him to a fine.

In Nuertingen the police attempted
to close a restaurant in which guests
were consuming alcoholic beverages

11

long after the legal closing hour. One
citizen made derogatory but harmless
reference to the drunkenness of an-
other police official. He was hauled
before the court on a charge of cir-
culating “libelous rumors" against the
law enforcement agencies of the
government.

A resident of Waiblingen was in-
formed by relatives in the United
States that they had sent him numer-
ous packages, though he only received
one or two of them, On finding that
the signatures on some of the receipts
were not made by him nor any mem-
ber of his family, he charged the post
office clerk with forgery and embezzel-
ment.

During the trial it was revealed that
the post office considers it proper for
its clerks to sign the receipt in place
of the actual recipient, because
“farmers usually have dirty hands
and deface the official documents
while signing them.’’ The post office
employee was thereupon acquitted,
but in turn charged the complainant
under the Insult Law. The latter was
convicted and fined.

A Hessian mayor, visiting Eltville,
was accused last September of insult-
ing the local police by referring to
them as ‘'vagabonds."" Brought before
a court, he was given the choice of a
DM 50 ($15) fine or 10 days in jail.

A rural policeman at Ziegenhain,
Hesse, sued a mason for calling him
the German equivalent of a “jug-
head.’ The mason was sentenced to
a DM 35 ($10.50) fine or a week in
prison. A woman at Allengronau was
fined DM 50 ($ 15) for a public remark,
in referring to the local police chief,
“Who knows with what he has been
bribed?"

A resident of Fulda was accused of
insulting both the county admini-
strator and the mayor because he had
called the mayor the county adminis-
irator’'s ventriloquist dummy. The
resident was found guilty of the
charge and fined DM 200 ($60).

(Continued on next page).

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 15 ---
Dr. Ludwig Bergstraesser, member of
the Hessian legislature and president
of the former governmental district
of Darmstadt, recently lost an insult
suit against a Darmstadt architect.

. The latter, who had been refused a
license for his automobile, had seen
Dr. Bergstraesser's official car in a
theater parking lot during a perform-
ance and sharply criticized its use
for recreation. Dr. Bergstraesser sued
under the Insult Law and lost when
investigation disclosed that the
architect’s charge was true.

Dr. Josef Mueller, Bavarian deputy
minister-president and leading
member of the Christian Social Party,
won a case last August against
Alfons Gassner, member of the
Bavaria Party, who had been accused
of having declared that Mueller had
made himself leader of the CSU, had
come to terms with the Communists
and had gone to Karlshorst* to receive
orders

HE COURT declined to allow

various leading members of the
Bavaria Party to be summoned to
give evidence, and decided that, on
his visits to Karlshorst, Mueller had
only been serving the interests of the
German people. Gassner was senten-
ced to three month's imprisonment.

Recent studies of Insult Law cases

have brought to light an interesting
point that German courts are Some-
times willing to dismiss charges and
in return order the defendants to
*donate”: specific ‘sums to welfare
funds. Action of this nature is taken
only with the agreement of the com-
plainant.
- This practice of welfare donations
in lieu of a sentence is an unwritten,
though not-too-generally used, court
procedure in Germany as well as in
most Central European countries.
Generally it is used only in cases of
an altercation between two individu-
als involving a misdemeanor or in
cases where the court is convinced
that more harm than good would be
done by a formal court sentence,

One typical example is that of a
citizen of a Hessian town who was
accused of calling the mayor "a crook,
a liar and a bucket of lard." When

* Section of Berlin where the Soviet Military
Administration Headquarters is located.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

his case was brought before a court
under the Insult Law, both parties
came to a voluntary agreement
whereby the accused had to pay the
trial costs of DM 65 ($19.50) and
donate DM 50 ($15) to the Hessian
Red Cross. The insult charge was
then dropped.

The Insult Law, according to the
Legal Division, OMG Wuerttemberg-
Baden, has a tendency to restrain,
and is restraining, the citizens from
criticizing or otherwise expressing,
‘their views on the conduct of public
officials or private persons, and it
also has a tendency to bolster, and is
bolstering the autocratic attitude of the
average German official. Such a law
is diametrically opposed to the
principle of free speech, one of the
cornerstones of democracy, and
operates as a gag to prevent that
freedom of expression which is
necessary in all democratic societies.

The Stuttgart Senate of the Wuert-
temberg-Baden Administrative Court,
in deciding a case in favor of an
accused, stated: “According to tenets
of the Constitution it is reasonable
that a citizen who believes that his
appeal to an authority was not given
proper consideration should plainly
express his annoyance.”

This decision by the Administrative
Court provides a basis for some
optimism, though it is an exceptional
deviation from the past trend in the
adjudication of insult cases.

Further evidence of attempts to
correct the traditional practice are
contained in a recent circular issued
by the minister of justice for Wuert-
temberg-Baden to all district attorneys
and courts in Wuerttemberg-Baden
concerning insult of public officials.
He wrote that courts have had to
deal with cases of petty insult which
do not warrant judicial procedures.

“It seems as though the use of harsh
and popular expressions is being
taken entirely too seriously. In many
cases the entire affair does not war-
rant’ preferring charges,” he wrote,
stating that verbal attacks of drunks
and excited persons should not be
interpreted as insulting or malicious
by oversensitive officials.

“A truly honorable and conscien-
tious official should not feel insulted
because of vulgar attacks,” he

12

continued, specifically pointing out
that officials should make a clear
distinction between criticism and
insult. Unfavorable critism is not to
be interpreted as insult, particularly
when there is some justifiable basis
for criticism.

HE MINISTER declared that the

conception that the insult. of
officials or a group of officials is a
greater offense than the insult of
another individual, has no basis in
German law. He stated specifically
that the impression that the honor of
one group of people enjoys greater
protection than ordinary citizens must
be erased. He ordered:

"The term ‘Beamtenbeleidigung’
{insult of officials) is to: be eliminated
from all charge sheets, arrest war-
rants and other legal instruments and
that any executive orders issued
contrary to these directives are hereby
tescinded."'

The usual
anyone who insulte an official in-
dicats that the historic concept of the
superiority and authority of the. offi-
cial is still nurtured by German
officialdom. It is doubtful that many
of those in official positions would
take steps to alter the provisions of
the Insult Law which protect’ them
from public scorn.

custom: of punishing

The theory of a special insult law
for public officials, in addition to the
remedies which they have as private
persons, is contrary to the theory
and practice in most democratic
states. In the law as applied in the
United States public officers and
governmental officials are considered
fair game for those inclined to be
critical.

Comments upon public officials or
their acts are not regarded with the
same strictness as utterances against
private persons. Public criticism and
even vilification are regarded as one
of the prices paid for high public
office. Every high public American
official of recent times has been the
butt of many open, identified or iden-
tifiable attacks.

While the abuse of the privilege is
to be condemned, the fairness of: the
average citizen has shown itself to
be a good guardian of public honor
and public morals as well as the

(Continued on page 14)

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 16 ---
Civil Service Reform

— — Assurance of Democratic Opportunity

ECENTLY, an order was issued by

the Military Governments of the
Bizone requiring the Bizonal German
Administration to make certain chan-
ges in the laws and regulations
governing qualifications for, appoint-
ment to, and the holding of, civil
office in Germany.

As has been the case with so many
Military Government directives in the
past and undoubtedly will be in the
future, the cry is raised in some quar-
ters that this is an undemocratic and
dictatorial procedure, inconsistent with
the principles which the occupying
powers so often and so widely pro-
claim in the name of democracy. We
have recently heard, too, that demo-
cracy is not a thing which can be im-
posed by an occupying power.

This has been said by certain Ger-
man individuals as though it were a
discovery on their part. I should like
to quote a short passage from the
United States Government directive
to the Military Governor, dated July 15,
1947 which sets forth the basic United
States policies with respect to Ger-
many:

“Your government does not wish
to impose its own historically deve-
loped forms of democracy and social
organization on Germany, and believes
equally firmly that no other external
forms should be imposed. It seeks the
establishment in Germany of a politi-
cal organization which is derived
from the people and subject to their
control and operates in accordance
with democratic electoral procedures
and which is dedicated to uphold both
the basic civil and human rights of
the individual.”

Evidently, then, the United States
has been under no misapprehension
in this respect. Indeed, we might go
much further than do these German
critics and say that neither can demo-
cracy be imposed by a German politi-
cal party organization nor a German
state government. As a matter of fact,
democracy cannot be imposed. By its
nature, it must be rooted in the con-

MAY 17, 1949

Address
by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN
Director, OMG Bremen

victions of the people themselves
and must be learned by experience
and practice. It is possible to aid in
this process of learning, however, by
tactful precept and example and by
the extension of encouragement and
material aid. In this, the occupying
powers and the democratic political
governments in office and the demo-

cratic political parties can, and do,
help.
N this connection, attention is

invited to the basic concept upon
which all of our democratic institu-
tions are founded, namely, that the
majority of the people, well informed,
are capable of determining their own
destinies wisely. In amplification of
this concept, the Military Govern-
ment Regulations contain seven im-
portant tenets of democracy, of which
for our purposes, it is sufficient to
quote only two.

First, “All political power is re-
cognized as originating with the
people and subject to their control”
and Second, “Political parties must
be democratic in character and must
be recognized as voluntary asso-
ciations of citizens, clearly distin-
guished from, rather than identified
with, the instrumentalities of govern-
ment.”

With these facts firmly in mind,
some of the so-called “dictatorial
acts of the occupying powers" should
be analyzed. The first ‘dictatorial’
act, of course, was the winning of the
war, in the process of which all op-
position was swept aside, even at the
cost of millions of lives on both sides.
That probably was the most ‘‘dic-

This article is abridged text, adapted
for magazine publication, of the address
delivered by Captain Jeffs at a public
forum in Bremen on April 7.

13

tatorial” act of all but was necessary
in order that there might be even
the opportunity for the development
of democracy within Germany.
However much one, as a German,
may disagree with the procedures
set up for the implementation of de-
nazification, demilitarization, resti-
tution, reparations and other dis-
agreeable measures, I believe that
there are few Germans who will to-
day find fault with the spirit in which
they were conceived, i. e. fair play
and justice to the aggrieved, I think
one will also agree that in such mat-
ters as decartelization, school reform
and Gewerbefreiheit (freedom of
trade), the underlying motive has
been to distribute (throughout the
whole number of the people the
privileges previously enjoyed by a
relatively small number of persons
constituting certain privileged groups.

(O this extent, then, democracy has

been, is being, and will, I am sure,
be continued to be imposed on Ger-
many until the common man learns
through education and experience to
exercise contro] of government and
political parties in his own right. It
is for the German people to determine
whether that period is to be a long
one or a short one, The opportunity
for development is being given them,
by forceful measures when necessary,
and it rests with them to become
familiar with the opportunities being
afforded them and to take advantage
of them. That, the occupying powers
cannot do for the Germans. They
must do it themselves,

I believe that there is today room
for little doubt as to Military Govern-
ment attitude toward the German
civil servant, For years, he has been
known as a most efficient, competent
and devoted agency of government in
Germany, but for years too, Germany
has been governed from the top and
he has been an agency of government
from the top. Because of his tradi-
tionally long and faithful service, his

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 17 ---
studiousness and experience, he un-
doubtedly feels that he knows more
ahout his special field than any other
men not so engaged in Germany, and
probably in the world. I, as a naval
officer of 38 years experience can
sympathize with him. I should be a
poor naval officer, indeed, if, with so
much specialized study and ex-
perience, I did not know more about
naval affairs than the ordinary man
on the street.

But here let us return to the
fundamental concept of democray;
i, e, that the majority of the people,
well-informed, are capable of de-
termining their own destinies wisely.
When it comes to a matter concerning
the good of the whole people, the
naval officer and the civil servant are
much too apt to become so engross-
ed with the characteristics of certain
individual trees in which they have
an interest, that they lose sight of
the welfare of the whole forest. The
naval officer, the civil servants, the
elected politician in office, all must
be servants of the whole people and
subservient to their will.

We do not believe that ideal to be
practicable of accomplishment under
circumstances where the law-making
body of a state is composed in any
considerable measure of civil servants
who are thus in a position to formulate
laws in accordance with concepts
which will facilitate execution in the
other capacity of the civil servant
as an executive. The legislative and
the executive functions
cratic government
separate.

in a demo-
must be kept

To the extent that a civil servant
is permitted to formulate policy in a
political party and to advocate its
acceptance by the people, the same
objection holds. In the matter of
political parties, we have a peculiar
situation in the state of Bremen. Of a
population of some 500,000 people,
the total enrollment of members of
all parties in the state numbers some
11,000.

HESE party members make up the
list of delegates to represent
their parties’ proportionate member-
ship of the city council as a result of
the elections, and to determine party
policies. There are even indications

INFORMATION BULLETIN

here and there that, after the election,
certain parties would like their elect-
ed party delegates to the council to
consider themselves directly respon-
sible to the party leadership, instead
of to the people as a whole.

We hear, from time to time, parti-
cularly in public forums, much about
the restricted political-party-view-
point of members of the government
who are accused of acting in party
interests rather than in the interests
of the people as a whole, Yet there
exists at the same time, a pride in
these same quarters in not belonging
to any party nor subscribing to any
party point-of-view.

These people are not very con-
sistent. They leave the formulation
of policy to 11,000 of their fellow
citizens and then complain that the
actions of these 11,000 are not to their
liking. It would seem then, that there
exists the possibility in Bremen for
the organization of a league of some
499,000 independent voters, or at least
the portion of that number eligible
to vote.

We often hear of complaints on the
part of citizens that they are dis-
courteously treated by some of the
officials, usually of lower rank, in the
various state and civil administrative
agencies. Germans are in a better
Position to judge the accuracy of
such accusations and the extent to
which such practices are prevalent.

Certain it is, however, that when
an administrative official is made 1o
feel that he is the servant of all of
the people, rather than of any
political organization, political party
or legislatively favored group,
an improvement can be expected
in his attitude toward the general
public. This statement should
not be regarded too literally as an
attack on civil servants and officials
but rather as a recognition of one of
the frailities of human nature.

Freedom of Travel for DP's

During December the Military
Governors of the three Western Zones
of Germany extended to displaced
persons the freedom of travel within
the three zones, Interzonal changes
of residence are not affected and are
still subject to approval.

14

(Continued from page 12)
Insult Law

privacy and honor of the public ser-
vant, and the freedom of justified
criticism is not impaired.

Violations of good taste and ex-
cesses of public abuse have found
their retribution for the offender as
well as the reward for the victim in
public reaction. United States public
officials and candidates have avoided
even those means of relief afforded
by the law to private individuals. An
untimely loss of temper by an officiai
or candidate, though justified, has
proved the turning point of many a
political career. Excessive personnal
abuse, or carping public criticism,
have frequently resulted in the return
to public office of the person attacked.

The unlimited freedom of criticism
has not only subjected the public
official to the most intense scrutiny
of his public and private lives, as
well as official acts, but within itself
has provided for the punishment of
its own excesses. -+END

Publishing Ban Upheld

Military Government has denied
an appeal by attorneys for the former
Ludendorff Verlag from a MG ruling,
which banned distribution of Luden-
dorff publications published prior to
May 8, 1945. The ruling was occa-
sioned by the appearance of mail
advertising offering these publications
for sale. In 1946, Military Government
had refused to issue a publishing
license to the head of the Ludendorff
Verlag, Mathilde Ludendorff, on the
grounds that the firm's output was
largely devoted to promoting a mystic
type of nationalistic racism.

Higher Education Study

A study by Military Government
in February indicates that 61,380
students are currently attending
institutions of higher learning in the
US-occupied Area. Of these 28,147
are enrolled in Bavaria, 15,846 in
Wuerttemberg-Baden, 11,892 in Hesse,
5,040 in the US-Sector of Berlin, and
455 in Bremen. In the fall of 1948 a
similar study showed 59,411 students
attending college level institutions.

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 18 ---
Practicing Democracy
— — Youth Leader Studies US Methods

TTENDING a class on group work

at the School of Applied Social
Sciences at Western Reserve Uni-
versity, I tried to imagine how it
would work out if German students
were sitting around me instead of
Americans. What would they think
of the subject matter and to what
extent would they be able to parti-
cipate in the discussion?

In Germany it still is the custom
to look at the learning process as a
fairly one-sided affair. The students
are trying to absorb as much knowl-
edge on a subject as the most
authoritative speaker can present in
the shortest possible time. We need
to realize that learning is not just the
taking over of ready-made concepts.
Learning means to develop one’s own
abilities; it is a process of growing,
of becoming aware of new facts by
using one’s own critical judgment. To
learn means to be active, to conquer
new fields and to make discriminat-
ing choices,

Besides appreciating the discussion-
method in teaching, there is another
precondition to learning which Ameri-
can students meet: that democracy is
really the only way of life which can
be accepted by modern man and that
democracy can fuction in our time.
The meaning of democracy, its philo-
sophical foundation and the minimum
requirements for its institutional

: setup—this to most Americans is no
problem, whereas to many Germans
it still is.

Perhaps one could hope to bring
about this recognition of democratic
values simply by letting people have
the experience: by talking on an
equal basis with others, taking on
responsibilities and realizing the
differences in human relations which
exist in a democratic compared with
a totalitarian society.

This surely will work in our German
groups but these groups must then
have leaders, Therefore, the training
et leaders should begin with an
inquiry into the basic principles of
free, useful living. At the same time,

MAY 17, 1949

Article
by Willi Birkelbach

Cultural Exchange Student
to the United States

all sorts of group activities may go
on, but without this introduction to
the philosophy of democracy the
leaders will fail to establish a positive
relationship between the single group
and the community as a whole.

In a training course for a group of
German youth leaders, the discussion
method and the problem approach
should be used, giving opportunities
for all types of illustrations which
originate in past experience. The
course should cover the whole range
of rights and responsibilities which
make up the real meaning of the
word “democracy.”

At the same time there should be a
chance to learn something about the
importance of organized groups in
society; of their influence on the
behavior and the activities of individ-
uals. This would lead to the field of
social group work.

N GERMANY there is critical need

for experience in practical demo-
cracy. Youth especially should have
many opportunities to experience a de-
mocratic group life to overcome the
feeling of being a lost generation, of
having no real aim and of finding no
way out of the present situation.

Young Germans must acquire a
sense of security and of self-
confidence so that they may make
their own decisions without looking
for new leaders to command them.
They must adjust themselves to hard
facts and grow up to the point where
they will contribute their best
voluntarily to build a future for the
German people.

The Nazi system condemned the
values of democratic group life. In
our present situation we cannot
afford to wait for our own experience
to grow out of practice; therefore, we
should try to benefit as much as
possible by the extensive research
work done in the United States in
the field of group work.

HAT is the contribution of social

group work as a method of ful-
filling the recreation function? It con-
tributes to the increase of enjoyment
through more satisfying human rela-
tions; it helps individuals who are
unable to enjoy themselves because
of personal difficulties; and it adds to
the significant by-products of recrea-
tion experience.

While we know that many people
join clubs, classes or teams because
of an interest in the sport, or the art,
or the subject to be discussed, there
is evidence that the chance to make
friends is a predominant factor in
bringing and holding them to the

activity. (Continued on next page)

Trying to visualize the reaction and
effect if his classmates were Germans
instead of Americans prompted Willi
Birkelbach to write this article analyzing
the experience as a cultural exchange
student under a Rockefeller Foundation
grant for five months at the School of
Applied Social Science at Western
Reserve University in the United States.
On his return to Wiesbaden in January,
he discussed (shown right) his work
with Mr. Francis E. Sheehan, deputy
director, OMG Hesse (left) and Mr. Glenn
Garrett, OMGH manpower chief. Mr. Bir-
kelbach, who is 36 years old, is now
giving his Hessian colleagues some of
the finer points of youth education he
learned in the United States.

PIO OMGH PHOTO

15

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
The recreation leader, of course,
needs an adequate acquaintance with
recreation skill—music, drama, craft
or sport. He needs to help his group
use these resources to the full; he
needs equally to understand how to
assist the interplay of personalities,
One of the principles upon which
social group work rests is its con-
viction that a chief source of positive
fulfillment for the individual lies in
the mutual inter-actions of ademocratic
and creative group. The group worker
and the member at this point share
the same purpose.

We are all familiar with the fact
that while people play they are also
doing much more besides. Therefore,
the recreation worker cannot provide
recreation without being aware of the
indirect and extremely significant by-
products of what he is doing. The
group worker must insist that the
methods of organizing and conducting
groups be constantly and critically
re-examined so that their educational
by-products contribute to democratic
conviction and experience.

His function is to influence the
group in ways which will lead to the
growth of socially desirable attitudes
and to experiences in mutually de-
veloping relationships. In addition, he
should promote new interests, the
broadening of knowledge and the
acquiring of new skills. Programs will
be different according to group inter-
ests and facilities, but they should
always aim at certain objectives.

HILE constantly promoting these

aims, the group worker himself
will become much more aware of the
values of democratic life. There is
reason to believe that even some
former autocratic leaders might
change. In Germany, this alone could
be regarded as a success.

This new type of group leader will
not consider an outside purpose more
important than the harmonious de-
velopment of the individual per-
sonality of his group members; he
will not consider them a means to
an end. There must be overcome the
habit of building up a strong loyalty
toward the group leader.

Members of a group should not be
blind followers but should make
decisions of their own. All group
activities should be planned and

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

performed by the group itself growing
out of their own interests. The group
leader may make suggestions and
give advice, but never should he try
to do everything himself. Individuals
should take responsibilities as the
leader delegates his authority. This
will lead to increased interest and
Participation, and members may gain
self-reliance and skill.

Acknowledging the fact that be-
tween recreation and education there
does not exist an exact line of de-
marcation, we must admit that group
work in Germany should use direct
methods as much as possible to
increase knowledge of our cultural
life, especially the functioning of our
society. Group discussion is a pre-
ferred method.

N THIS FIELD, too, we need to draw

upon American etperience. As long
as people do not feel free to reveal
their inner thoughts, fearing intoler-
ance and violence, no discussion is
possible. There is no real education
without free discussion.

The Nazis had to suppress free dis-
cussion to manipulate the people into
a fanatical attitude, otherwise the
most intelligent young Germans would
have been able to see clearly that
their companions were dreaming. To
form an independent opinion, the
chance to hear different views and
to know where to get further unbiased
information is essential.

Very few of our young generation
have had an opportunity of exercising
their own judgment. They did not
even have the opportunity of express-
ing an opinion, and none could
develop the skill of presenting views
before an audience. I found it one of
the most striking things in America
that even a child is not afraid of
talking to a group and obviously
possesses a certain skill in expressing
himself. Without timidity he will ask
questions if he does not agree or
understand,

And almost everyone seems to
know how to handle a committee-
meeting or understands the respon-
sibilities of the chairman, so that
rights in democratic assembly may be
protected. To provide experience in
this field everywhere—in classrooms,
meetings and group discussions—is

16

one of the most urgent tasks in
Germany.

Discussions may have quite different
purposes. Sometimes they are used to
exchange information; sometimes they
define a common policy; sometimes
they are a means of arriving at
decisions for action, and sometimes
they release tension and clear the
atmosphere. There is no doubt that
as a means of learning facts and
testing one’s own views, discussion’
is very helpful. As it stimulates
independent thinking, it attracts
interested people. If a discussion is
well led, participants may see different
aspects of a problem and get a real
understanding of it so that they may
find a decision of their own.

It is necessary also to know some-
thing about public discussions involv-
ing a larger audience. In Germany,
we often choose the form of a lecture
with a short discussion period follow-
ing it, but there are other forms of
discussion which have the advantage
of arousing audience interest and
participation, such as the panel forum
and the symposium forum.

Many persons find listening easier
than reading and they prefer to have
an uninterrupted lecture which gives
the speaker an opportunity for a more
unified presentation of material. If
the audience is to follow, the speaker
is compelled to talk directly to his
hearers stimulating them to more
than passive listening. “

S contrasted with other types of

discussion, the lecture has its dis-
advantages. A specialist, particularly
in a controversial topic, finds it
difficult to make an objective present-
ation, Because he is a specialist. he
knows enough about the topic. to
have formed his own opinion. Then
the lecturer may be inclined to con-
clude his remarks with an emotional
climax precluding discussion rather
than encouraging it.

Group experience of all kinds brings
about the growth of the individual,:
provides hours of pleasure, enables
the individual to think and act on
his own judgment and makes him
realize that the group is something
more than the sum of its members.
A feeling of belonging arises, the.
members become ready to make

(Continued on page 37)

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 20 ---
Jedermann Program

EDERMANN — every man — has

become a household word in west
Germany. For the man with only a
little money in his pocket it means a
~ chance to buy products which only
a few months ago were either
unavailable, of inferior quality, or
astronomically priced.

Production of goods does _ not
guarantee sound economic recovery
when consumers can not buy prod-
ucts. This was the problem last fall
when the Jedermann Utility Program
was organized to bring shoes, clothes
and other necessities to the average
person at prices within reach of all.

Adopted in October 1948 with ap-
proval from Military Government, this
far-reaching consumer program was
launched by the Bizonal Economic
Administration. It calls for production,
among other consumer, goods, of
shoes at prices 30 to 40 percent below
pre-program shoes of like quality.
Specifications of quality and work-
manship are adhered to. But what sets

these products apart from earlier
postwar goods are their standard,
uniform quality and their prices.

Selling prices, ranging from DM 24.50
to 29.50 ($7.35 to 8.85), are stamped
on the shoes by the manufacturer.
Thus, there is no fear of excessive
middleman profits.

For the first phase of the program,
October to November, the shoe target
of 700,000 pairs was reached, and
when the target was raised to
1,500,000 pairs monthly for December
and January, this goal also was
reached,

This is in dramatic contrast to the
800,000 pairs produced by all bizonal
shoe manufactures last June—a pro-
duction figure so low that it would
have taken almost five years to
supply each bizonal German with
shoes. At present, more than 3,000,000
pairs are being produced each month,
enough to provide a new pair of shoes
to the entire bizonal population every
14 months,

Shoe firms welcomed the Jeder-
mann Program once it was fully

MAY 17, 1949

— — Shoes, Clothes for Every Man

understood. The plan placed them in
a favorable bargaining position with
bizonal hide tanners. A substantial
share of foreign exchange available
for purchasing hides is now allocated
directly to the shoe manufacturer by
the Economic Administration. The
shoe manufacturer can place this
foreign exchange with the tanner of
his choice. He can make it a condition
that the tanner delivers leather suitable
in price and quality for Jedermann
specifications, Foreign exchange is
allocated to the shoe firm on the
basis of its Jedermann deliveries.

Many consumer necessities besides
utility footwear are included in the
Jedermann Program. Work and every-
day-use clothing for men, women and
children is an important part of the
plan. Production of bicycles and por-
celain and earthenware are other
consumer fields coming under the
Jedermann label.

A three-month Jedermann production
plan was adopted in the textile field.
Contracts were awarded to bizonal
textile firms which could best fulfill
the conditions of low prices, quality
output and quick delivery. The ex-
pected monthly production is 2,500,000
pieces of clothing including everything
from men’s work shirts and suits
to bed sheets and women’s aprons.
Clothing stores are displaying goods
with the Jedermann tag because the
low-price, good-quality combination is
in high demand. The German public
is receiving clothing it can afford to
buy. Even prices of textile goods
flowing through free channels are
coming down at least partly due to
the program.

ICYCLES are a newcomer to the
Jedermann plan. Low prices are
being made possible by dispensing
with nickel and chromium plating and

Material for this article was collected
and furnished the Information Bulletin
by Mr. Fred W. Welty, staff writer
of the Bipartite Control Section of the
OMGUS Public Information Office
(Frankfurt).

17

other superfluous parts. Jedermann
bicycles range in price from DM 142
to 145 ($42.60 to 43.50) for men's
bicycles and DM 147 to 150 ($44.10 to
45.00) for women’s, Bicycle makers
joined the program Feb. 1, and 55,000
bicycles, or one-half the total monthly
bizonal production, is being turned
out for the Jedermann Program. These
bicycles are now on sale to the public.

Through its varied products, the
Jedermann Program is bringing down
prices of everyday necessities, and is
assuring that large quantities can be
supplied on the market. As prices
continue to drop in various fields of
free channel goods or show some
indication of not climbing immediately,
various parts of the program will be
terminated. Then, when consumer
goods are in adequate supply, free
competition will give the protection
that the Jedermann Program does now.

Shift in Reading Interest

There has been an_ increased
demand for “popular’’ reading matter
and a lessening of interest in relig-
ious publications in the US Zone.
Illustrative of this was the complete
sale of the initial edition of Margaret
Mitchell's “Gone with the Wind,”
priced at 35 marks ($10.50) per copy,
and a 50 percent reduction in the
circulation of the religious magazine
“Mannheimer Kirchenblatt'’’ (Mann-
heim Church Paper).

Tour of American Play

Preparations are being made for a
tour of schools, universities, and re-
ligious organizations with the Eng-
lish and German version of Emmet
Lavery's “Monsignore’s Great Hour”
with a cast of prominent English-
speaking German stage and screen
actors. The English version will be
given wherever there are groups in- .
terested in English or learning
English.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 21 ---
Major Mather Returns to United States

Major Walter E, Mather, US Secre-
tary for the Bipartite Board (US/UK
Military Governors), has returned to

the United States for
study in engineering.

Shortly after his arrival at OMGUS
Hq. in November 1946, Major Mather
was appointed US Secretary for the
Bipartite Board with responsibility
for ensuring that the US Military
Governor was adequately briefed for
meetings with his British, and some-
times French, colleagues.

During the early period when the
Military Governors met informally
and intermittently, the Bipartite Se-
cretariat (BISEC) staff was small and
the work characterized by periods of
frantic endeavor—followed by periods
of relative inactivity. However, as
the bipartite movement extended and

postgraduate

formalized itself by implementation of
the Bevin-Byrnes agreement (econom-
ic fusion of US/UK Zones), BISEC
expanded to handle its broadened
functions and at the present time
employs eight professionals; organi-
zationally, BISEC is a staff agency
for the Military Governor under the
Chief of Staff, OMGUS.

Major Mather's principal duties
consisted of preparing the Military
Governor for Bipartite Board meetings
by writing “briefs” of subjects on
the agenda, and for implementation of
decisions made by the Military
Governors at these meetings.

As preparation for his work with
OMGUS, Major Mather was graduated
from the Command & General Staff
School, Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, in
addition to previous staff assignments
at Ft. Leonard Wood and MacDill
Field.

After gnaduation from West Point,
where he was commissioned in the
Corps of Engineers in 1941, Major
Mather’s service was marked by
colorful assignments both in the field
and in army staff work. His initial
duty post was in Hawaii, where he
commanded a combat engineer com-
pany through the period of the Pearl
Harbor attack until November 1942.
There followed brief staff assignments
at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo., and Mac-
Dill Field, Ala., until he was recalled
to West Point from 1943 to 1946 as
an instructor during the accelerated
wartime officer training programs.

Personnel Changes are Announced

Lt. Col. Milton L. Ogden was ap-
pointed secretary general of OMGUS,
succeeding Mr. James E. King, Jr.,
who is now deputy chief of staff,
OMGUS (Bad Nauheim). Colonel
Ogden, a graduate of the US Military
Academy, arrived in Germany from
the Armed Forces Staff College, Nor-
folk, Va. His most recent assignments
have been with the Operations
Division, US Army General Staff in
Washington, and with General Head-
quarters, Pacific Theater, Tokyo,
Japan,

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

Major Gordon L. C. Scott, who had
been US secretary of the Allied
Secretariat, was named US secretary
of the Bipartite Secretariat, succeeding
Major Walter E. Mather. Formerly he
was head of the bipartite staff of the
Bizonal Delegation to the Organization
for European Economic Cooperation in
Paris.

Mr. Melvin L. Alter was named
deputy US secretary of the Bipartite
Secretariat, succeeding Mr. John F.
Golay.

Mr. Shepard Morgan, vice president

18

and chairman of the Committee on
Foreign Services of the Chase National
Bank, has been named finance adviser
to the US Military Governor. He
succeeded Mr. Jack Bennett, who
had returned to the United States:

Mr. Morgan has been active in the
field of finance since 1913, when
he became secretary of the Depart-
ment of Finance, and later deputy
comptroller of the City of New York,
He became associated with the Chase
National Bank in 1930,

Mr. Jo Fisher Freeman, who had
been serving as acting finance adviser,
was appointed director of the newly-
established Finance Division, OMGUS.
He is a former employee of the
National City Bank of New York,
London, Yokohama and Kobe, and the
Central Bank of China at Shanghai
and Chungking.

Mr. Albert G. Sims, executive
secretary of the Committee on Tri-
partite MG Organization, CINCEUR,
has been appointed deputy control
officer for the Control Office, OMGUS,
in addition to his other duties,

Mr. Alfred D, Mittendorf was named
chief of the Organization and Program
Branch, Control Office, OMGUS,
succeeding Mr. Gordon P. Freese, who
has returned to the United States.

Mr. Gerald P. Bushnell succeeded
Mr. Mittendorf as deputy chief of the
Organization and Program Branch.

Mr. Freeland Judson, chief of the
Statistics Section, Reports and Sta-
tistics Branch of the Control Office,
was named deputy Branch chief.

Mr. John E. DeWilde, executive
officer for the Control Office, OMGUS,
was appointed deputy chief of the
Budget and Fiscal Branch, Control
Office, OMGUS (Frankfurt).

Mr. Robert H. Lochner, liaison officer
with Radio Frankfurt, was appointed
editor-in-chief of the new Frankfurt
edition of the MG-published “Die
Neue Zeitung.” Son of Mr. Louis P.
Lochner, for many years Berlin bureau
chief of the Associated Press, Mr.
Lochner was educated in Berlin
and at the University of Chicago.
Formerly with the National Broad-
casting Company, he came to Ger-
many in 1945 with the US Strategic
Bombing Survey. Subsequently he was

MAY 17, 1949

:
;

--- Page 22 ---
chief news editor of the US Zone
German radio network, and control
officer and chief of Radio Frankfurt
completing its transfer this year to
the Hessian broadcasting organization,

Brig. Gen, Thomas L. Harrold,
director of Civil Affairs Division,
EUCOM, since August 1947, left for
a new assignment as assistant com-
mandant of the armored school at
Fort Knox, Ky. Prior to the MG
reorganization last year, he was also
director of the Prisoner-of-War and
Displaced Persons Division, OMGUS.
His successor as Civil Affairs Director
is Col. Benjamin Ferris, who had been
deputy chief of staff, 1st Army, in
New York.

E&CR Branch Redesignated
The Group Activities Branch of the
Education and Cultural Relations
Division, OMGUS has been redesign-
ated the Community Education Branch.
All subordinate offices in the US Zone
are affected by the new designation.

Mr. Theo E. Hall

was appointed
deputy director of the Civil Ad-
ministration Division, OMGUS, in
addition to his duties as chief of the
Public Safety Branch, CAD. Mr. Hall
joined Military Government in 1945
as deputy chief of the Public Safety
Branch and became branch chief in
May 1947. He has also served as
acting deputy director of CAD since
June 1948. (US Army Photograph)

MAY 17, 1949

Danube Bridge at Ingolstadt is Reopened

Partegas/OMGB Photo

Bishop Josef Schroeffer walks the length of Ingolstadt Danube Bridge during
solemn consecration ceremony marking reopening of the bridge.

Four years after the Ingolstadt
Danuke Bridge was destroyed by SS
troops, ceremonies marking its reopen-
ing for traffic took place. Taking pro-
minent part in the ceremonies was Dr.
Schroeffer, Bishop of Eichstaett. He
gave a brief address, said dedicatory
prayers and walked across the full
length of the bridge, blessing it with
holy water.

Mr. Murray D. Van Wagoner,
director, OMG Bavaria, also gave
an address in which he con-

gratulated his audience on the rapidity
with which Bavaria was reconstruct-
ing its physical, moral and spiritual
bridges. “This bridge, which was
destroyed in a few seconds, took four
years to the month to rebuild,” Dir-
ector Van Wagoner said: “Many of
your ideals, undermined, and in some
cases completely destroyed over a
period of 13 years, are in proportion,
being rebuilt much more rapidly.”

He cited as examples town hall
meetings in which public officials
were called to task for by-passing

19

responsibilities and also the tolerant
and understanding manner in which
some communities attempted to absorb
tefugees into the economy of their
towns.

Another speaker, Dr. Willi Anker-
mueller, minister of the interior,
pointed out that completion of the
ridge was a healthy indication that
Germany was trying to help herself.
He stated further that few Bavarians
in 1945 believed that they would pro-
gress to the point where they are
today.

Other dignitaries attending the
consecration ceremonies
Oscar Daumiller of the Protestant
Church Council, Rabbi Dr, Aaron
Orenstein and Dr. Fischer,
secretary of state.

were: Dr.

Franz

The destroyed span of the bridge
was approximately 360 feet in
length and weigthed over 1,000 tons.
In its reconstruction, 40 tons of steel
and 215 tons of concrete were used.
The work required more than 192,000
working hours.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Polish displaced persons leave their barracks at repatriation center at Lauf and ride trucks to the train to Poland

POLISH DP’S RETURN HOME

(US Army photos)

Polish Lt. (right) checks his two guards on prisoners car of 1st Lt. Leon Haduch, Nuremberg Military Post, hands
repatriation train. Fifteen prisoners were repatriated a Polish DP a cigarette ration for the long trip ahead

Repatriating Polish  dis-
placed persons take a last
look from their”

home" railroad car

the bleak rain, A little boy
clutches his cherished cat
as he starts back to Po-
land after spending several
years in camp in Germany.
This converted box car
holds 15 bunks with straw
mattresses a rest roomand
a coal burning stove with
a box of coal. This group
is part of 225 persons that
boarded the special train
for Poland from Lauf, near
Nuremberg

INFORMATION BULLETIN MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 24 ---
High Commission Agreement

— — Basic Principles in

HE DEPARTMENT of State made

public the text of the agreement
reached in Washington on April 8,
between the governments of France,
. the United Kingdom and the United
States on the basic principles for the
merger of the three western German
zones of occupation. The purpose of
this agreement is to define the or-
ganization and procedures through
which the powers of the occupying
governments will be exercised after
the establishment of a_ provisional
German government,

The agreement provides for a High
Commission, to be composed of a
high commissioner for each of the
occupying governments, and it out-
lines the manner in which the com-
missioners will vote and reach their
decisions. The nature and extent of
the powers to be exercised by the
occupying governments have been
fully set out in the occupation statute,
which has already been released for
publication.

The provisions of this agreement as
to Tripartite Controls will be applied
so far as practical to Berlin,

The three governments also agreed
on the principles according to which
their powers and responsibilities will
be exercised after the establishment
of a German Federal Repulic, While
the occupying governments will retain
supreme authority, it is intended that
Military Government will be termi-
nated and that the function of the oc-
cupation officials will be mainly
supervisory,

The German authorities will be free
to take administrative or legislative
action, and this action will ke valid
unless it is vetoed by Allied authority.
The fields in which the occupation
authorities reserve the right to take
direct action themselves, including
the issuance of orders to German
and local officials, will be restricted
to a minimum, and it is expected
that, with the exception of security
duestions, the exercise of direct
Powers will be of a temporary and
self-liquidating nature,

MAY 17, 1949

FTER the German Federal Republic
has been established, the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Administration
will assume the responsibility for
supervising the use of funds made
available by the US government to
the German economy for purposes of
relief and recovery. It is envisaged
that the German Federal Republic will
become a party to the convention for
European Economic Cooperation and
will also conclude a bilateral agree-

ment with the Government of the
United States.
When the German Republic has

been established and Military Govern-
ment has keen brought to an end, the
strictly military functions of the oc-
cupation authorities will be exercised
by a commander-in-chief and all other
functions by a high commissioner,
who will direct each of the Allied
establishments in Germany other than
the occupation forces. It is intended
that the size of the staffs to be main-
tained in Germany will be kept to a
minimum, A major objective of the
three Allied governments is to bring
about the closest integration, on a
mutually beneficial basis, of the Ger-
man people under a democratic federal
state within the framework of a
European association.

The Department of State also made
public the texts of two further agree-
ments reached by the three govern-
ments on April 8, concerning a plebi-
scite in Wuerttember-Baden, and the
administration of the port of Kehl.

The texts of certain other agree-
ments on Germany have already been
made avaible for publication. These
include the Occupation Statute, the
International Authority for the Ruhr,
the agreement concerning Prohibited
and Limited Industries in Germany,
and the agreement on the German
reparation program*, The three new
documents follow:

Agreement as to Tripartite Controls

The Governments of the United King-
dom, France and the United States
agree to enter into a Trizonal Fusion

21

Three Zones Merger

Agreement prior to the entry into
effect of the Occupation Statute. The
representatives of the Three Occu-
pying Powers will make the necessary
arrangements to establish tripartite
control machinery for the western
zones of Germany, which will become
effective at the time of the establish-
ment of a provisional German govern-
ment. The following provisions agreed
by the governments of the United
Kingdom, France and the United States
shall form the basis of these arrange-
ments:

1. An Allied High Commission com-
posed of one high commissioner of
each occupying power or his rep-
resentative shall be
Allied agency of control.

2. The nature and extent of controls
exercised by the Allied High Com-
mission shall be in harmony with the
Occupation Statute and international
agreements,

the supreme

3. In order to permit the German
Federal Republic to exercise increased
responsibilities over domestic affairs
and to reduce the burden of occupation
costs, staff personnel shall be kept to
a minimum,

4, In the exercise of the powers
reserved to the occupation authorities
to approve amendments to the federal
constitution, the decisions of the Allied
High Commission shall require
unanimous agreement.

5. In cases in which the exercise
of, (or failure to exercise), the powers
teserved under paragraph 2 (g) of the
Occupation Statute would increase
the need for assistance from United
States government appropriated funds,
there shall be a system of weighted
voting. Under such system the rep-
resentatives of the occupation
authorities will have a voting strength
proportionate to the funds made
available to Germany by their respec-

* “Occupation Statute’ on page 21 of this
issue; ‘Ruhr Authority’ in issue No. 153
of Jan. 25, 1949; ‘‘Prohibited and Limited
Industry is Defined‘* and “‘Reparaticn Re-
vison’ in issue No. 160 of May 3, 1949

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
tive governments. This provision shall
not, however, reduce the present
United States’ predominant voice in
JEIA and JFEA while these organiza-
tions, or any successor organization to
them, continue in existence and are
charged with the performance of any
of their present functions. No action
taken hereunder shall be contrary to
any inter-governmental agreement
among the signatories or to the
principles of non-discrimination.

6. On all other matters action shall
be by majority vote.

7. (a) If a majority decision alters
or modifies any inter-governmental
agreement which relates to any of the
subjects listed in paragraph 2 (a) and
2 (b) of the Occupation Statute, any
dissenting high commissioner may
appeal to his government. This appeal
shall serve to suspend the decision
pending agreement between the three
governments.

(b) If a high commissioner considers
that a majority decision conflicts with
any inter-governmental agreement
which relates to any of the subjects
in paragraph 2 (a) and 2 (b) of the
Occupation Statute or with the funda-
mental principles for the conduct of
Germany's external relations or with
matters essential to the security,
prestige, and requirements of the
occupying forces, he may appeal to
his government. Such an appeal shall
serve to suspend action for 30 days,
and thereafter unless two of the
governments indicate that the grounds
do not justify further suspension.

(c) If such appeal is from an action
of the Allied High Commission either
declining to disapprove or deciding
to disapprove German legislation,
such legislation shall be provisionally
disapproved for the duration of the
appeal period.

8. A high commissioner who con-
siders that a decision made by less
than unanimous vote involving any
other matter reserved by the Occu-
pation Statute is not in conformity
with basic tripartite policies regarding
Germany or that a state constitution,
or an amendment thereto, violates the
Basic Law, may appeal to his govern-
ment. An appeal in this case shall
serve to suspend action for a period
not to exceed 21 days from the date

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of the decision unless all three govern-
ments agree otherwise. If such appeal
is from an action of the Allied High
Commission either declining to dis-
approve or deciding to disapprove
German legislation, such legislation
shall be provisionally disapproved for
the duration of the appeal period.

9. All powers of the Allied High
Commission shall be uniformly exer-
cised in accordance with tripartite
policies and directives. To this end in
each state the Allied High Commission
shall be represented by a single state
commissioner who shall be solely
responsible to it for all tripartite
affairs. In each state the state
commissioner shall be a national of
the Allied power in whose zone the
state is situated. Outside his own zone
each high commissioner will delegate
an observer to each of the state
commissioners for purposes of consul-
tation and information. Nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed
to limit the functions of bodies
established pursuant to inter-govern-
mental agreement.

10. To the greatest extent possible,
all directives and other instruments
of control shall be addressed to the
federal and/or state authorities.

11. The Trizonal Fusion Agreement
will continue in force until altered by
agreement among the governments.

* * *
Wuerttemberg-Baden Plebiscite

It was agreed that the status quo
in Wuerttemberg and Baden would
be maintained for the time being and
that the plebiscite recommended by
the German Minister Presidents would
be postponed in the interest of
avoiding any possible delay in the
establishment of the German Federal
Government.

It was further agreed that the
question of the Wuerttemberg-Baden
land boundaries would be re-examined
after the establishment of the German
Federal Government.

* * *
Agreement on Port of Kehl

The French Control Authorities with
the assistance of the Strasbourg
French Authorities will maintain
under existing conditions jurisdiction
over the Kehl Port Zone until establish-
ment of the German Federal Govern-
ment and conclusion of negotiations

22

between the French and German
authorities with respect to a Joint
Port Administration for Kehl.

It was agreed, on a proposal of the
French Government, that the city of
Kehl would gradually be returned to
German administration. It was foreseen
that the French temporarily domiciled
in Kehl might remain during a four-
year period required for the prepar-
ation of additional housing in Stras-
bourg. Around one-third of the French
inhabitants will be able to leave
Kehl within several months, and the
remainder progressively thereafter as
housing becomes available.

The final decision with respect to
the Kehl Port Zone will be made in
the peace settlement. If the port
authority develops harmoniously, the
US and UK will be willing at the time
of the peace settlement to bring an
attitude of good will toward the
establishment of a permanent joint
authority.

Crossing Soviet Borders

Soviet authorities at Bavarian border
crossing points do not recognize
interzonal passes for transit into the
Soviet Zone if the reason for the trip,
which has to be included in the pass,
consists, of securing of personal prop-
consists of securing of personal prop-
erty of dowry-type. Interzonal passes
stating the above grounds as reasons
for the trip are being invalidated by
a Russian stamp so that the holders
of such passes cannot try to enter the
Soviet Zone at other places.

Soviet authorities at the same
border crossing points insist, further-
more, that interzonal travel passes
bear a stamp of the employer or the
local labor office of each person
intending to cross the border.

Repatriation of Displaced Persons

Approximately 13,930 displaced per-
sons were repatriated from the US
Zone to their various homelands dur-
ing 1948. Of this number, 7,167 were
United Nations displaced persons,
and 6,763 were enemy or ex-enemy
nationals. In addition, a total of
86,264 displaced persons from the
US Zone were resettled in various
countries during the year.

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 26 ---
German Progress
Letter to Editor, Washington Post:
Your editorial (March 7) speaks of the
“growth of the Germany luxury trade”
and says that “the shop windows
“are filled with expensive articles of
clothing and nonessentials.” Don't you
agree with me that it might be mis-
leading to judge the living standard
of a country from its show windows?
Certainly Germany increased her
luxury trade, for instance her pro-
duction of fine leatherware. But those
things are, just like in France, the
country’s outstanding export goods.
By those exports of luxury goods
Germany pays at least for part of her
food imports from other countries and
thereby reduces the needed support
from other countries’ taxpayers.

Surely, you find many show
windows filled with expensive articles.
But this does not prove that the
Germans purchase those things. Every
salesman in Frankfurt or Duesseldorf
is glad, of course, when members of
the occupational forces or their fami-
lies step into his store for shopping
because that helps to increase his
returns. But you will hardly find
Germans buying the expensive goods.
Besides your luxurious show windows
in the main streets (where visitors
from abroad usually walk) you find
hundreds of stores where the average
citizen can buy ordinary things at
reasonable prices and in fair qualities.

The German authorities started
some months ago the _ so-called
“Everyman's Program’* by which a
high percentage of the raw material
available was determined to be used
for cheap but good commodities at
fixed prices. Now the show windows
are as well filled with these goods
for everybody.

The second point I would like to
clarify further is your statement that
‘luxury spending” was the result of
the “premature abolition of price and
distribution control on most raw
materials and manufactured goods.”
Leading economists, and I think the
United States Military Government,

*See “Jedermann Program’ Page 15.

MAY 17, 1949

too, believe that just the contrary is
true. The abolition only in part of the
control and rationing system for about
300 groups of commodities freed the
economy from its strangling bureau-
cratic chains and gave it a tremendous
incentive.

The “German progress” you speak
of is due—besides to the currency
reform and the deliveries of raw
materials and food from abroad—to
the new policy that resolutely
abolished the system of rationing
every safety pin in the country. With
that system kept entirely rigid
Germany would have goods now
neither in her show windows nor in
her stores but only in the hoarding
stocks of black-marketeers. And only
they would live luxuriously. (Signed)
K. H. Knappstein, Chief, Press Section,
Executive Committee of the Bizonal
Economic Counsel in Germany.

* * *
Occupation Statute
Baltimore Evening Sun: The Allied
Occupation Statute ... is probably not
so oppressive a document as the
Germans believe it to.be on first
sight. Inevitably, Germen resentment
centers around the nine fields in
which ‘powers are specifically
reserved’ to the three Military
Governments. Here the Germans find
a retention of authority which, if
exercised fully, could leave the
German government virtually power-

less...

Whatever the document means,
however, it does seem to be drawn
up in such a manner as to call] forth
the maximum protest from the Ger-
mans. At a critical period of the
constitutional negotiations at Bonn it
would have been wiser to lay
emphasis on the powers being given
to the projected government rather
than on powers reserved to the Allies.

New York Herald Tribune: The
Occupation Statute for Germany and
the agreement between France, Britain
and the United States, are very con-
siderable achievements, They conceal
differences as serious as those which
they resolve; at best they represent

23

the end of the beginning’ on the
problem of Germany rather than the
beginning of the end, which would
still seem to be a long way in the
future... The Germans are under no
real pressure to solve their own pro-
blems, so long as everything can be
blamed upon the occupiers and the
occupiers will in the end continue
to pay the bills...

In some cases it may be impossible
now to lay down final solutions. But
it is imperative that the Western
Allies come to full and firm agreement
on temporary, if not on permanent,
solutions for the major issues of
policy; that they know their own
minds; that they thus lay down clearly
the limits within which the Germans
must work, and that they impose clear
responsibility as well as opportunity
upon the German parties in the re-
building of a new German community.

* * *

Task for a Civilian

Washington Post editorial: The
United States now has a golden
opportunity to make a new start in
Germany, General Clay has asked
to be relieved before July, and he
deserves to have his wish fulfilled.
The general himself is irreplaceable...
Many generals have been mentioned
as possible successors, but each has
the disadvantage of being a military
man in a situation which calls for a
civilian in supreme charge.

Once General Clay is out of the
picture, the State Department can
have no excuse for ducking its
German responsibilities We have
argued repeatedly that it is time to
put a civilian high commissioner in
unchallenged control, subject only to
the instructions of the Secretary of
State and the President. It is time to
end the present division of authority
and to bring our policy in Germany
into line with our policy in western
Europe.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Col. Samuel Conley (right) director OPOT and deputy director of French observers (Left to right) Maj. P

“Operations Showers” briefs group of Dutch Liaison officers at Stein Castle. Capt. Noble W. Abrahams (US), Maj. Pau
Clery-Melin; Col. S. G. Conley (US).

“Operatic

One of the largest maneuver
Command was held last month
Hof and Regensburg with sup)
wider area. Commanding “
Clarence R. Huebner, deputy Gi

Commanding the participati
US Constab; Maj. Gen. Frank!
Arthur G, Trudeau, 1st Constab
2nd Constab. Brig.; Brig. Ge
Operations, Heidelberg; Col

Air Div., and Rear Admiral
Loading gasoline into a German Operating a 20-drop switchboard from a
boxcar at supply point No. i trench at 2nd constabulary headquarters

Military officials from Bri
at Neustadt, during STX-49. near Roth. also observed the maneuvers. —

Water is pumped from running stream, filtered, purified Wiremen of the 776 Signal Service Company set up wires for tele=)
and put into vats for use of 2nd Armored Cavalry. phone and teletype operations at Stein Castle.

--- Page 28 ---
vrard, Maj. Guy Boery; Lt. Col. Jean Voyer, Operations room in Stein Castle where the units participating in the
eaux, Maj. Andre Delcourt, Capt. Robert maneuvers receive their orders. Maps and plans are being put on the walls
for the master plan.

er to take place in the European
sfly in Northern Bavaria between
ng units participating in a much
ations Showers’’ was Lt. Gen.
nander in chief, EUCOM.

nits were: Maj. Gen. I. D. White,
ilburn, ist US Inf. Div.; Brig. Gen.
ig.; Brig. Gen. Edmund B. Sebree,
Williston B. Palmer, Logistical
’. Edwinson, USAFE, Provisional
‘ilkes, Naval Forces.

Mobile PX put into service to keep troops Field kitchen set up in Salzburg

ance, the Netherlands and Norway supplied with necessary items during spring autobahn area for the 7822
PHOTOGRAPHY by US ARMY maneuvers. Ordnance of Munich.
Sherman tank crosses the 1st Combat Engineer Bn's bridge at Neu- Manning positions at a 50 cal. anti-aircrait gun installa-

markt, during advance on Bamberg. Bridge supports 50 tons. tion which protects troops crossing the engineer bridge.

--- Page 29 ---
Mark Conversion

Occupational personnel have until
June 3 to convert their blue DM 20
notes to the green DM 20 specie. The
blue so-called “bird-dog” notes were
withdrawn from circulation by order
of the Bank Deutscher Laender and
were not accepted in payment for
goods or services after May 3. How-
ever, all such notes acquired from
US finance offices in exchange for
dollar instruments may be converted
at any US Zone finance office until
June 3,

Talking on Rhine

A ship-to-shore radio service on
the Rhine river for the use of ap-
proximately 7,000 inland water craft
of five countries
is expected to be
in operation by
July, All countries
using the Rhine

have reached
agreement on the
new service sub-
ject to confirmation by their respective
governments. Three of the seven
projected shore radio stations are
located in western Germany.

This new radio service for Rhine
river ships will expedite the inland
shipping of Belgium, Holland, France,
Switzerland and Western Germany
by connecting Rhine ships with the
international telephone and telegraph
network of those countries.

Employment Trends

A recent lifting of restrictions on
short-term loans in the Bizonal Area
is expected to reduce the number
of unemployed below the March high
of 1,111,065 persons (9 percent of the
working force). The full effect of the
credit relaxation will probably be
felt in late April and May when in-
dustries and businesses have been able
to translate the short-term loans into

INFORMATION BULLETIN

expanded activity. Unemployment in
the manufacturing and building con-
struction fields has already shown
recovery tendencies....

Agreement has been reached by
US and UK Military Governments
for the recruitment of 10,000 young
Sudeten German women from the US
Zone for employment and eventual
citizenship in Great Britain. Under
the terms of the agreement, recruit-
ment will be effected in cooperation
with the ministries ol labor of the
respective US Zone states, and the
majority will be employed in the
British textile industry.

Only unskilled single women or
widows in good health and of good
character, without dependent rela-
tives, over 18 years of age and under
36, will be eligible. These volunteers
will be employed under the same
conditions as British workers and
will receive the same wages. After
five years’ residence in Great Britain
the women will be entitled to apply
for naturalization as British subjects.

Airlift Notes

An easing of the strain on German
airlift workers in Berlin has been
made possible by switching to a five
day work week

with shorter
hours daily. The
changeover pro-
vides opportun-
ities for fulltime
employment of
an additional 250
workers, reduces fatigue of the work-
ing force and promotes more efficient
operation of the airlift.

Meanwhile, Berlin businessmen
profited by a ruling of the bizonal
economic advisers exempting _ in-
dustrial air freight to and from Ber-
lin from the recent 40 percent in-
crease in bizonal freight rates. One

26

pacer coy

of the first items to reach the city
under this ruling was a shipment of
six ambulances for German public
health authorities in Berlin's western
sectors,

Better Transportation

New freight cars to carry Ruhr
coal, agricultural products and in-
dustrial goods essential to Ger-
man economic re-
covery are be-
ginning to be put
into service by
the Reichsbahn
(German rail-
roads). The first
196 cars of the
4,750 being constructed by Italian
firms under JEIA contracts have
reached Germany and placed into
service. :

Other foreign countries from whom
early deliveries of new freight cars
are expected include Belgium (661
frames delivered by mid-March),
Czechoslovakia (1,550 delivered), Au-
stria and Hungary, Under the bizonal
freight car building program 1,199

new bizone-built cars have been
added to the rolling stock since ~
Jan. 30.

Quick servicing by the Bremen
Civil Port Authority of a Norwegian —
freighter resulted in a new record for —
discharging ore at that port. Seven
thousand two hundred twenty-six
tons of iron ore were unloaded from
ship to freight cars in 15 hours and
seven minutes.

Trade & Industry

Overtures from Soviet-Zone Ger-
man officials to reopen trade and
traffic with west Germany met with
a restatement of existing American
policy by the OMGUS economics
adviser, Mr. Lawrence Wilkinson,
who said, “No trade until the blockade
of Berlin is fully lifted. The “natural

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 30 ---
of these overtures, he
continued, was that they were
prompted by the Allied counter-
blockade, which has cut off east Ger-
many from Ruhr coal and steel and
other important west German com-
modities.

While this continued as one of the
major question marks for discussion,
JEIA further liberalized export pro-
cedures for western German business-
men by lifting controls on exports
from the French Zone. Under the new
arrangements, prior approval for ex-
ports is not required, except as
specified in JEIA Instruction No. 1,
and export contracts are to be
negotiated in accordance with the
customs of the trade,

inference“

Exports—At the same time, In-
struction No, 1 was amended to
permit exports from all western zones
of occupation to all countries in the
western hemisphere without prior
approval of JEIA. Until now, only
the United States, Canada and New-
foundland were in the non-prior-
approval category.

New additions to the export list
included: the German film ‘Berliner
Ballade,“ a_ satire portraying the
tragic-comic life of Berlin, which will
be shown in Switzerland and the
United Kingdom under long-term
contracts; and the Munich opera
singer, August Seidel, licensed by
JEIA for foreign appearances in South
Africa, where he will appear in
leading German productions of the
South African State Opera.

Patents—Wartime restrictions on
the filing of German patents, designs
and trademarks abroad have been
relaxed by 22 countries, following
similar action by the occupation
authorities’ governments last Sep-
tember. To facilitate filing of new
ideas, an office to receive applications
has been set up for the combined:
area at Darmstadt. Applications may
be submitted to that office direct or
through a German patent attorney.
In addition, German nationals may
apply for international registration
of designs and models to the Inter-
national Bureau for the Protection of
Industrial Property, Berne, Switzer-
land.

Steel—Production of steel in the
bizonal area during March reached a

MAY 17, 1949

new high level and in excess of
recently revised targefs. The goal of
2,000,000 tons of steel ingots for the
first quarter was bettered by 65,000
tons, placing current output within
18 percent of the level fixed by inter-
national agreements. BICO stated that
as a result of the high output during
March the annual rate is now up to
9,000,000 tons.

The rise in steel production also
had a direct effect on the agricultural
outlook. Increased supplies of basic
slag, a by-product of steel produc-
tion and one source of agricultural
phosphate for fertilizer, will prob-
ably make imports of phosphate and
nitrogen unnecessary during the
fiscal year beginning July 1.

Coal—Germany’s western coal min-
ing, power and electrical industries
will share an immediate cash advance
of DM 400,000,000 ($120,000,000) out
of GARIOA (government and relief
in occupied areas) counterparts funds
to be financed by the (German) Re-
construction Loan Corporation with
a bond issue to provide for long
term capital investment. A  supple-
mentary program for the advance of
DM _ 143,000,000 ($42,900,000) for the
immediate needs of agriculture and
housing is now under study.

The initial utility advance also in-
cludes allocations to meet the interim
needs of the inland water transporta-
tion system, the chemical, mechanical
engineering, textile; non-ferous metals,
precision tools and optical industries,

Postal Union Anniversary

The 75th anniversary of the Uni-
versal Postal Union and the part
played in its foundation by the then

German. Post-
master general,

Heinrich von
Stephan, are com-
memorated in a
new series of
stamps placed
on sale in the
western sectors of Berlin, April 18.

The new stamp series is the first
special issue in western Berlin since
the termination of quadripartite city
tule last spring. Fourteen million
stamps in seven denominations rang-
ing from 12 pfennig to two marks
(3'/s-60 cents) have been printed, al!

27

of which depict the Stephan monu-
ment in the old National Post Office
Ministry Building in Berlin.

Sports

German sportsmen may now accept
invitations to participate in sporting
events outside Germany, either on
individual or club
basis, provided
all expenses are
borne by the
sponsor abroad.
Exit travel docu-
ments for in-
dividuals accept-
ing such invitations must be obtained
through the normal MG channels....

The combined hunting and fishing
licenses issued to US and Allied
personnel in Bavaria remain valid
until superceded by new separate
hunting and fishing permits to be
issued on a zone-wide basis....

Argentine boxing fans soon will
see two leading German boxers
“fighting for the German economy.”
Hans Haefner und Ludwig Petri, two
well known Munich boxers, are
scheduled for 12 fights during the
next year under a JEIA license which
provides that a share of the boxers’
gate receipts will accrue to the Ger-
man foreign exchange pool for the
benefit of the German economy.

Living Space

New housing units for. Allied air-
lift personnel in the Wiesbaden and
Erding areas of Hesse are planned.
The additional accommodations will
be financed by the Reconstruction
Loan Corporation out of an advance
of DM _ 32,000,000 ($9,600,000) from
STEG counterpart funds, which are
derived from the proceeds of sales
of surplus US army goods to the
German economy.

Frankfurt Housing—Continuation of
the public works project set up to
rehabilitate housing and office space
for the Bizonal Economic Admin-
istration has been assured by the Bi-
partite Control Office in a recent in-
struction to bizonal officials.

The German officials were instructed
to release DM 5,000,000 ($1,500,000)
to the Frankfurt Construction Com-
pany to pay its debts and keep it in

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
operation until work on the Frank-
furt bizonal building program is
completed. The building program of
the company was financed at first by
voluntary contributions from the Ger-
man states but since currency refom
this revenue has failed.

Political Sidelights

Prisoners of war released from
Soviet internment denied they had re.
ceived political indoctrinationicourses,
when questioned
in Hesse. How-
ever they would
not believe, a Ger-
man driver who
told them that he
was voluntarily
working for the
Americans....

Three Polish stowaways on a Ger-
man vessel out of the Soviet-Zone
port of Stettin notified MG marine
security officers that they fled Stettin
to avoid being forced to join the
Soviet army....

Minor Nazi party members in Ber-
Jin will avoid all penalty under the
terms of a sweeping amnesty ordered
by the Allied Kommandatura. All
persons covered by the order will
receive a new identity card indica-
ting their non-incrimination under
Allied denazification laws in Berlin.

Propaganda-wise—Rumors of a com-
munist-inspired whispering campaign
in Bavaria aimed at retarding west-
German unification drew an expres-
sion of confidence in the Bavarian
people from OMGB. An official de-
clared that “the Bavarian people are
certainly propaganda-wise by now.
Surveys have proved that during the
past three years they have auto-
matically rejected such subversive
campaigns in every case. They have
developed a rumor-evaluation sense
which will undoubtedly see them
through anything as obvious as this
latest communistic ruse."

Gift Packages

Poland's refusal to accept further
gift parcels from America for for-
warding to the western sectors of
Berlin drew a strong written protest
from Mr. Eugene H. Merrill, chief of
the OMGUS communications group
in Berlin. In a letter to the Polish

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Military Mission, Mr. Merrill dis-
counted the ‘Polish explanation of
“technical difficulties" as the basis
for termination of the gift parcel
service, stating:

“By this move your administration
lends active support to the inhuman
blockade of the city of Berlin in-
stituted by the Soviet Military Ad-
ministration, and deprives residents
of the city of needed help and
assistance from friends and relatives
in the United States.”

Concurrently, the 33,333,333rd_ gift
parcel mailed to Germans by Amer-
icans since the end of the war arrived
in Bremen. To encourage residents of
the United States to continue the
substantial flow of goods into western
Germany, the ECA has made arrange-
ments with the occupation author-
ities and the US Post Office Depart-
ment for the assumption of a large
portion of the costs involved in
handling gift parcel post, As a result,
the current postage rate is six cents
per pound as compared with the
former rate of 14 cents per pound.

Culturai Tastes

On the basis of American book
titles selected by German publishers
for German editions, the reading
tastes of the German people for
American books shows a continuing
preference for American fiction, history
and biography over other types of
literature.

German publishers in the US Zone
so far have completed publication of
112 of the 390 American book titles
which they have bought for translation
into the German language; their pre-
ference was indicated in the type of
book most frequently selected for
translation and publication.

Publication of the German-language
editions is being aided by US Military
Government through the import and
sale of paper stock to supplement
supplies from the German economy.

Professors—American professors
from the University of Chicago wiil
continue on the faculty of Frankfurt
University during the summer semester.
Prof. Otto G. von Simson, associate
professor of art and author of Sacred
Fortress, heads the third group of
seven professors from Chicago to

28

come to Germany under the cultural
exchange phase of the OMGUS re-
orientation program.

Food Prospects

A survey of bizonal farmers’ spring
sowing plans reveal a pronounced
trend toward an increase in fodder
crops and a decline in the cultivation
of crops for human consumption.

Reports from 6,000 west German.
farmers point toward a decline of
3.3 percent in the area of potato
cultivation compared with last year,
which is far below the original plan
given the OEEC (Organization for
European Economic Cooperation), In-
dications are that the area under bread
grains will also decline by 3.4 per-
cent, while fodder grains may be
expected to increase by 3.2 percent.

In a broadcast to the Bavarian
people on the subject, a spokesman
for the Food & Agriculture Ministry
reassured the people that Bavarian
farmers could meet their quota of
potatoes (5,400,000 tons), citing the
14 percent planting increase last year
in spite of shortages of seed potatoes
and fertilizers, This year, he said,
“sufficient seed potatoes and imports
of fertilizers were guaranteed.”

Border-Foraging—West German food
conditions were attractive enough,
however, to'induce Soviet-Zone parents
to send their
children on 15
mile hikes into
the US Zone to

beg for food,
Hessian. reports
indicated. The

children who ‘are
usually between 8 and 14 years of
age, are not bothered by Soviet
Zone border guards as they cross the
zonal border....

To aid in long range food planning
for the three western zones, an ex-
tensive agricultural census will be
undertaken this spring as part of the
world-wide census of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations. The first census of its kind
in Germany since 1939, the question-
naires will conform to those in the
more progressive countries through-
out the world and will utilize the
services of 100,000 census takers on
an honorary basis.

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 32 ---
Webster Aiken, well known concert pianist, | The 7851 QM Group organized this Polish guard section in Munich to train dogs as another
is making a three week tour of Germany. safety measure for night patrols, A total of 42 animals are in training. US Army Photos

Refugee women receive blankets from Bishop Neuhaeusler. Blankets Children of the Allach refugee camp receive toys collected in the
were purchased from STEG by Gov. van Wagoner with relief funds. refugee toy drive sponsored by OMGB. OMGB Photos

Col. Harry W. Bolen, greets Col. Mary Halloren, WAC Director, and “Vittles’*. sets a new record as total tonnage reached 12,940—3,940
Capt. Joy Hancock, WAVES Director, in Munich. over the amount handled by former rail lines. US Army Photos

MAY 17, 1949 29 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
TEXT OF OCCUPATION STATUTE FOR WEST GERMANY

We, General Pierre Koenig, Military
Governor and Commander-in-Chief
of the French Zone of Germany,
General Lucius D. Clay, Military
Governor and Commander-in-Chief of
the United States Zone of Germany,
and General Sir Brian Hubert Robert-
son, Military Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief of the British Zone of
Germany, do hereby jointly proclaim
the following Occupation Statute:

1. During the period in which
it is mecessary that the occupation
continue, the Governments of France,
the United States and the United
Kingdom desire and intend that the
German people shall enjoy self-gov-
emment to the maximum possible
degree consistent with such occu-
pation; that federal state and the
participating Laender (states) shall
have, subject only to the limitations
in this instrument, full legislative,
executive and judicial powers in
accordance with the basic law and
with their respective constitutions.

2. In order to ensure the accom-
plishment of the basic purposes of
the occupations, powers in the follow-
ing fields are specifically reserved,
including the right to request and
verify information and statistics need-
ed by the occupation authorities:

(A) Disarmament and _ demilitar-
ization, including related fields of
scientific research, prohibitions and
restrictions on industry, and civil
aviation;

(B) Controls in regard to the Ruhr,
restitution, reparations, decartelization,
deconcentration, non-discrimination in
trade matters, foreign interests in Ger-
many and claims against Germany;

(C) Foreign affairs, including inter-
national agreements made by or on
behalf of Germany;

(D) Displaced persons and the ad-
mission of refugees;

(E) Protection, prestige, and security
of Allied forces, dependents, employees
and representatives, their immunities
and satisfaction of occupation cost and
their other requirements;

(F) Respect for the basic law and
the Land (state) constitutions;

(G) Control over foreign trade and
exchange;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(H) Control over internal action,
only to the minimum extent necessary
to ensure use of funds, food and other
supplies in such manner as to reduce
to a minimum the need for external
assistance to Germany;

(I) Control of the care and treatment
in German prisons of persons charged
before or sentenced by the courts or

_ tribunals of the occupying powers or

occupation authorities; over the car-
tying out of sentences imposed on
them; and over questions of amnesty,
pardon or release in relation to them.

3. It is the hope and expectation
of the Governments of France, the
United States and the United Kingdom
that the occupation authorities will
not have occasion to take action in
fields other than those specifically
reservedabove, Theoccupationauthor-
ities, however, reserve the right,
acting under instructions of their gov-
ernments, to resume, in whole or in
part, the exercise of full authority if
they consider that to do so is
essential to security or to preserve
democratic government in Germany
or in pursuance of the international
obligations of their governments.
Before so doing, they will formally
advise the appropriate German author-
ities of their decision and of the
reasons therefor,

4, The German federal government
and the governments of the Laender
(states) shall have the power, after
due notification to the occupation
authorities, to legislate and act in the
fields reserved to these authorities,
except as the occupation authorities
otherwise specifically direct, or as
such legislation or action would be
inconsistent with decisions or actions
taken by the occupation authorities
themselves.

5. Any amendment of the basic law
will require the express approval
of the occupation authorities before
becoming effective. Land (state) con-
stitutions, amendments thereof, all
other legislation, and any agreements
made between the federal state and
foreign governments, will become
effective 21 days after official receipt
by the occupation authorities unless
previously disapproved by _ them,

30

provisionally or finally. The occu-
pation authorities. will not disapprove
legislation unless in their opinion
it is inconsistent with the basic law,
and constitution, legislation or other
directives of the occupation author-
ities themselves or the provisions of
this instrument, or unless it constitutes
a grave threat to the basic purpose of
the occupation.

6, Subject only to the requirements
of their security, the occupation
authorities guarantee that all agencies
of the occupation will respect the
civil rights of every person to be
protected against arbitrary arrest,
search or seizure; to be represented
by counsel; to be admitted to bail
as circumstances warrant; to com-
municate with relatives; and to have
a fair and prompt trial.

7. Legislation of the occupation
authorities enacted before the effective
date of the basic law shall remain in
force until repealed or amended by the
occupation authorities in accordance
with the following provisions:

a. Legislation inconsistent with the
foregoing will be repealed or amended
to make it consistent herewith;

b. Legislation based upon the re-
served powers, referred to in para-
graph 2 above, will be codified;

c. Legislation not referred to in A
and B above will be repealed by the
occupation authorities on request from
appropriate German authorities.

8. Any action shall be deemed to be
the act of the occupation authorities
under the powers herein reserved,
and effective as such under this
instrument, when taken or evidenced
in any manner provided by any
agreement between them. The occu-
pation authorities may in their dis-
cretion effectuate their decisions either
directly or through instructions to the
appropriate German authorities.

9, After 12 months and in any event
within 18 months of the effective date
of this instrument the occupying
powers will undertake a review of its
provisions in the light of experience
with its operation and with a view
to extending the jurisdiction of the
German authorities in the legislative,
executive and judical fields.

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 34 ---
EDITORIAL OPINION

“v- GERMAN PRES

Reaction to Occupation Statute Becomes Less Critical

German reaction to the Alliied
Occupation Statute for western Ger-
many gradually became less critical
by political leaders while the press,
in spite of various objections, stressed
the need for a speedy conclusion
of constitutional work at Bonn and
establishment of a west German
government, according to a summary
complied by ISD's News of Germany.

Principal points of criticism were
the reservations made by the Allied
governments, which were regarded as
excessive, and the absence of a high
court to settle controversies between
Germans and Allies on interpretation
of the Statute.

The eleven ministers president of
the West states at Bonn, declared it
a “substantial progress on the way
to restoration of the sovereignty of
the German people” and welcomed
the fact that the Statute, particularly
in its opening and closing parts,
reveals an attitude which gives hope
for equal inclusion of Germany in
the European family of nations. How-
ever, important German wishes have
remained unfilled, and the value of
the document can only be determined
by its execution in practice, the state
executives stated.

Somewhat toning down _ initial
reaction of their chairman, Dr. Kurt
Schumacher, the Social Democratic
Party board, the Bonn faction and
ministers president, meeting at Godes-
berg, said that “with wise application,
(the Statute) may lead to a gradual
extension of German autonomy.” The
SPD also deplored the absence of an
arbitration agency and expressed the
belief that the actual importance of
the statute may be evaluated only in
Connection with the fusion agreement
for the three western zones.

The “new simplified Occupation
Statute was seen as eliminating many
qualms resulting from earlier drafts,
observed Dr. Anton Pfeiffer, Bonn
faction leader of the Christian Demo-
cratic-Social Union. In its “gratifying
Shortness" the Statute contains the

MAY 17, 1949

> the

most essential points and may aid in
gradually making the future federation
more autonomous, he added. Criticism
listed by Pfeiffer also included omis-
sion of a high court and the fixing
of occupation costs for a longer period
of time.

The statute was seen as a “blow
in the neck” for all those confident
that the Allies are seriously resolved
to return to the Germans the
sovereignty “due them before God
and law,” Dr. Thomas Dehler, Bava-
tian Free Democratic Party chairman
and Bonn delegate, declared. Ger-
man democracy would have to bear
results of this distrust and
shortsightedness of the Allies, he said,
concluding that “the Statute is a
deadly frost for the spring dream of a
European and democratic community.”

The Communist Party's western
German board denounced the docu-
ment as a “colonial statute," which
deprives the German people of
all rights to self-determination and
sovereignty which had been promised
them in the Atlantic Charter and the
Potsdam decisions.

The Mainzer Allgemeine Zeitung
(Mainz, Rhineland - Palatinate) con-
sidered the Statute a “gratifying sign
of confidence” in view of the fact
that Germany of today is still in the
state of an armistice with the Allies.

The Mittelbayerische Zeitung (Re-
gensburg, Bavaria) regarded the terms
of the Occupation Statute as hard but
necessary in the circumstances:

This section is devoted to
translations prepared byj the
Scrutiny Board for the Inform-
ation Services Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports in the
German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to
portray what the Germans are
writing und thinking, and not
necessarily to give any concur-
rence to their views and opinions.

31

TMA
MUM AI ff

Q
Q
£
a
ee
°
g
2

M

peace treaty . . . In order to see it
in the proper light we must face

reality ... Germany has lost its
sovereignty . . . Whatever is offered
us, is by a voluntary act of the Allies.
What could have prevented them from
making the terms much harder? .. .
The most cheering aspect is that the
future West German government will
be a full member of the Marshall
Plan organization . . . The control of
our foreign policy is probably the
hardest blow to our national pride...
But in practice it will prevent any
Rapallo adventures, that is, the silly
notion that we might possibly play
ball with Russia...

“The domestic matters over which
the Allies retain control are those
which the Germans have failed to
carry forward with sufficient energy...
This is well, as is also the provision
that future changes in the constitution
must have Allied approval, because
the vestiges of totalitarian Hitler
methods have by no means been fully
removed in West Germany .. . We
can only regain our independence
step by step and only by unreservedly
attaching ourselves to the western
world and building up a genuine
democracy . . . The Statute can be
revised . . . Its educational potential-
ities are very great. Stresemann
would have agreed.”

One of the most enthusiastic com-
ments came from Abendpost (Frank-
furt): ‘The Germany conversations in
Washington have led to a result
which even optimists in Germany did
not expect ... Someone wants to
help us back on our feet, not only
with a newly-promised minimum of
occupation costs, but also as a full-
fledged partner in the great economic
collaboration of Europe. Isn't it more
than a gesture, when the first inter-
national action of the future German
government will be its signing an
ERP agreement with the United
States? This willingness to help the
defeated is without precedent in the
history of the world.”

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Edmund Goldschagg, licensee of
Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) wrote
in a special issue: ‘All in all we must
admit that the Occupation Statute
contains little which is essentially new,
but has merely legally crystallized,
as it were, the conditions obtaining
for the last two years between Mili-
tary Government and the German
leaders . . . The domestic difficulties
of our western neighbors are now
working to our disadvantage ... We
must take all this into consideration
when we find ourselves disappointed
with the provisions of the Statute.”

The Muenchner Merkur (Munich)
thought the quick publication of the
Occupation Statute “was intended to
make it evident to the gentlemen in
Bonn and to all Germans that a new
phase in the relations between con-
querers and vanquished can
mediately begin and that it is now
up to the Germans .. . to end the
first chapter of the occupation ...

im-

“There is an English proverb:
‘Beggars can't be choosers.’ We are
beggars throught our own guilt. For
never has a people, blessed as we
were with material and _ spiritual
goods, sunk so deeply into bank-
tuptcy throught its own insane rage
against itself and the world. Every
alleviation granted to us ought to be
regarded as an unhoped for oppor-
tunity and a stimulus to help build a
better future for our people.”

Dieter Cycon in Stuttgarter Zeitung
(Stuttgart) was of the opinion that the
Germans can accept the Occupation
Statute only if it is a step toward the
reunification of all four zones and
that they must demand on this more
and more precise information from the
western foreign ministers. He found
both good and bad in the Statute. As
bad he considered ‘a decentraliza-
tion of finances so far-reaching that
the planned West German republic
will be severely handicapped in
dealing with the enormous social,
economic and commercial problems
of the future. The demand for this
decentralization comes from the
French on the one hand—they are
determined to have a weak western
state—and on the other from the more
conservative circles of CDU/CSU,
whose interest lies in strengthening
the influence of the employer class

INFORMATION BULLETIN

on financial and economic policy . .

“In spite of painful limitations there
will be increased freedom in domestic
questions-undoubtedly a drawing card
for German politicians and parties. For
the man in the street the joy will be
dampened by the suspicion that this
will mean the end of such progressive
measures as the abolition of trade
licensing, free tuition, etc. by Military
Government; here the question arises
how much a more backward self-
government is to be preferred to a
more progressive Military Govern-
ment... All in all we have little
reason to be enthusiastic about the
Statute.”

The Darmstaedter Echo (Darmstadt,
Hesse) found the terms of the Occu-
pation Statute hard: “The most consol-
ing feature is the provision that
changes in the Statute may be made
in a year or at most 18 months... As
precedent we must not forget the
many changes in our favor which
have ocurred since and despite our
unconditional surrender... In the
very nature of things, the Occupation
Statute is and cannot be anything
more or less than conditions dictated
by the western victors...

“Despite its many restrictions on
German independence and freedom of
action, it represents progress insofar
as it clearly shows the intentions of
the Occupation powers towards us
and because it establishes in black
and white the relationship between
victors and vanquished.., Everything
now will depend on the spirit in
which the Statute is applied...”

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidel-
berg, Germany) said: ‘The text of the
Occupation Statute shows that in
Washington all difficult problems were
passed by in favor of a declaration of
principles leaving to the Allies a very
free hand in future decisions... Only
practice will show how big in fact the
progress will be which the Occupation
Statute brings to us...

“Nevertheless, we'll grasp with both
hands any chance to regain a part of
our lost sovereignty. For the men of
Bonn will be easier to decide since
they now know what liberties the
future German federal republic will
be granted by the Occupation Powers.
Whether it will now be wise to put
aside the draft of the basic law that

32

has been worked out in Bonn... we
will be able to judge when a simplified
draft is presented... Now that the
burden of uncertainty has been lifted
the best way to an agreement must be
found and, if necessary, the work done
up to now must be scrapped without
regret.”

Political Parties

The Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt) states that Germany's present
political parties are losing ground
because they have shown themselves
unable to meet exacting requirements
of the postwar era:

“The decisive factors in politics are
not party programs and good inten-
tions but tangible successes...

“As regards home-building and re-
fugees there has been no sign of any
attempt to handle these urgent pro-
blems with energy and method... We
are beginning to ask: Where are the
men who combine vigor and talent;
with sufficient moral and democratic
authority to win recognition and
respect that transcends party lines?
Are the right men again avoiding the
political arena? Are they held back
by party bureaucracy? Or have
Germans completely lost the power
of political creativeness? If so, we
must indeed be resigned to our fate!”

The Wiesbadener Anzeiger (Wies-
baden, Hesse) reported on a discussion
meeting arranged by Mr. George
Vadney, MGO, Wiesbaden, between
members of the press, German offi-
cials and MG representatives and
commented on a speech by Mr.
Vincent Anderson, Press Branch chief
of OMGH:

“Mr. Anderson pointed out that con-
structive cooperation between press
and public officials was only possible
on a basis of mutual confidence. At
present such confidence unfortunately
does not exist and it is not always
the fault of officialdom... For one
thing, as Senate president Kaisen of:
Bremen recently pointed out, German
reporters are often not sufficiently
acquainted with the subject matter of
their interviews... As a result, well-
meaning official spokesmen hesitate
to give information to the press be-
cause they fear it will be distorted...
In order to gain confidence of public
officials reporters must justify such
confidence.”

MAY 17, 1949"

--- Page 36 ---
Report on Germany

Part 4— European Recovery Program

HE European Recovery Program

(ERP) is now a major element for
recovery as well as a major deter-
mining factor in the operation of the
economic systems of the occupied
areas of Europe.

Prior to the passage by Congress
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1948,
which authorized the Economic Co-
operation Administration (ECA) to im-
plement the ERP, the primary eco-
nomic responsibility of the Depart-
ment of the Army in the occupied
areas of Europe consisted of the
responsibility imposed on occupation
forces by international law to "main-
tain law and order.” Implicit in this
responsibility is the provision of
food and other basic essentials on a
standard high enough to prevent
disease and unrest among the occu-
pied peoples,

Since the termination of hostilities,
the so-called "disease and unrest pre-
vention program” has been carried
out by Army commanders in the oc-
cupied areas utilizing United States
appropriated funds. These appropria-
tions did not, however, extend to the
inclusion of any funds for "rehabilita-
tion” or the recovery of the internal
economies of the occupied countries
toward a self-sustaining condition.

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1948
included appropriated funds for allo-
cation to the occupied areas -by the
ECA for promotion of rehabilitation
and recovery over and above the
food, medical supplies, and petroleum
products which were and are the
minimum items purchased by the
Army to raise the occupied economies
barely above the “disease and unrest”
level, Hecne, ERP required a further
extension of Department of the Army
economic responsibilities in and for
the occupied areas of Europe.

As to Germany, prior to the passage
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1948,
the Joint Export-Import Agency had
begun to revive and expand German
foreign trade through its operation in
€xporting German goods and impor-
ting foreign goods, principally, raw

MAY 17, 1949

Excerpts from Annual Report
by Secretary of the Army

materials, for use in Germany, How-
ever, JEIA operations in 1948 fell
far short of the scope essential to
enable bizonal Germany to obtain
from abroad the food, raw materials,
and other items in which it is de-
ficient, and, further, to pay for these
goods in German exports,

ITH the passage of the Foreign

Assistance Act, the financing of
the deficiency of bizonal Germany
was programmed substantially in three
parts; appropriations handled by the
United States Army provided the
basic essentials in food and related
items for the minimum level of ex-
istence (the "disease and unrest pre-
vention” program); financing for reha-
bilitation and recovery derived from
JEIA operations (proceeds of exports
which were used to purchase essen-
tial imports above the disease and
unrest prevention items provided by
the Army); and ERP dollars which
would further add to raw materials
and other recovery items including
additional food essential to revive
German economy,

The objective of the ERP in Ger-
many is to promote western Euro-
pean trade as well as generating re-
covery in Germany to a point at
which the proceeds of German exports
will pay for essential German imports
without any assistance from the Uni-
ted States taxpayer in the form of
either ECA appropriations or the
“disease and unrest prevention” ap-
propriations of the Army.

In implementing the ERP, the first
step was the preparation by the Uni-
ted States and United Kingdom mili-
tary governors of a list of require-
ments—a recovery program—whichset
forth by items and by dollar value
the estimates of goods and supplies
which should be provided by ECA
over and above those already being
obtained from JEIA operations and
the Army's Goverment and Relief in
Occupied Areas (GARIOA) appropria-

33

tion. This new ERP requirement added
measurably to the responsibility of
military government in Germany and
the Department of the Army in’ Wa-
shington,

The actual business of preparing
the requirements for the military go-
vernors was undertaken in 1948 by
JEIA in cooperation with the bizonal
German Economic Council, JEIA has
also provided the representation for
bizonal Germany on the Organization
for European Economic Cooperation
(OEEC), the German European group
in Paris representing the 18 nations
which are recipients of United States
assistance under the ERP. Bizonal
Germany has been given the status
of a “recipient country” in the ERP.

Since all other recipient countries
except Germany had embassy or mi-
nisterial staffs in Washington with
special buying missions to handle
procurement, it became necessary for
the Army to develop a unit to act in
those capacities for the bizone, Ac-
cordingly, a small organization was
set up in the Office of the Under
Secretary of the Army which coordi-
nated with the Office of the Food Ad-
ministrator for Occupied Areas, since
the latter had been handling the
GARIOA food requirements, By this
method, the Army placed in one office
the machinery for handling its respon-
sibilities for the relief program
(GARIOA) and the rehabilitation and
recovery program (ERP). This new
unit, called the ERP Group, is, in
effect, bizonal Germany's foreign
mission which defends the bizonal
requirements before ECA and assists
JEIA in its Western Hemisphere pro-
curement,

ROM the beginning, it was appa-
rent that diffficulty would be met

in preparing the ERP case for bizo-
nal Germany to present to the
OEEC and ECA. As many of the
war and postwar agreements we
had made with our allies affected the
permitted levels of industrial activity,
an placed severe controls upon for-
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN;

--- Page 37 ---
eign trade by Germans, the statisti-
cal facts of German economic re-
quirements as determined and presen-
ted by the Army sometimes seemed
to clash with foreign policy consider-
ations,

Late in June ECA approval was
given to a 90-day program in the
amount of $80,000,000 with provision
for $29,000,000 more if it could be
sufficiently justified by demonstrating
requirements for specified items.

y the time this figure was reached,

the enabling and other appro-
priate legislation had been passed by
the Congress and the European Co-
operation Administration was in being.
Realizing that the period for which
the first 90-day program was intended
had almost ended without any pro-
curement accomplished, the Depart-
ment of the Army proposed a system
of Army procurement and transporta-
tion by which ECA funds would be
warranted directly to the Army for
immediate use. This method was gen-
erally adopted for food supplies. It
served to keep the pipe lines full and
immediately increased the diet of the
German “heavy workers," providing
an incentive for increased production
by miners.

This method also permitted the
Army to make immediate use of its
already appropriated GARIOA funds
as working capital for food supplies
with ECA funds being supplied as
reimbursement upon proper documen-
tation of expenditures. The basic
principle of ECA activity for Ger-
many, as well as other recipient coun-
tries, however, is the use of private
trade channels rather than the general
utilization of Army facilities for pro-
curement and transportation,

The Bizone submitted a program
for the April-June quarter with main
emphasis on food to supplement
the relief feeding and on bulk indus-

trial raw materials approximating
$120,000,000.
After screening for availability,

specifications, price, and other statu-
tory considerations, ECA approved
for procurement approximately
$100,000,000, of which, including
freight, approximately $45,000,000 was
for Category “A” items (food, fuel,
and medical supplies) and the remain-
der for direct industrial rehabilitation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

As required by the act, a “bilateral
agreement" between the United
States (ECA) and the German "“gov-
ernment” (the military governors of
the US/UK Zones) was negotiated. It
was signed July 14, 1948.

On July 1, the OEEC began func-
tioning for programing. Annual as well
as quarterly programs of the 18 coun-
tries, including the bizone, are exam-
ined in Paris and, when approved,
transmitted to ECA, Washington.

ECA announced that the Bizone’s
allotment, based upon tentative esti-
mates of trade balances with other
countries, would be $48,000,000 for
the period July-September. After con-
siderable negotiation, requiring very
close inspection of the  bizone's
estimated trade position the allotment
was raised to $132,000,000, a figure
which included $9,000,000 that might
be reallocated to the April-June 1948
quarter.

Lacking working capital in foreign
currencies and dollars, and lacking
world-wide trade relations, the Bi-
zone was seriously handicapped, com-
pared to other countries, in taking
advantage of ECA assistance, All of
its import contracts had to be exe-
cuted literally months after ECA ap-
proval of its import program. Since
it has been occupation policy not
to commit the Bizone to contracts
until funds were available, contract
negotiations and clearance through
both the German and the military
government agencies could not be
undertaken in the case of ECA items
until ECA approval had been given.

NUMBER of decisions helped to
hasten ECA assistance to the

bizone, It was decided that funds

for category “A” items would be

made available directly to the
*

Part 5 — Food for

HE Office of Food Administrator

for occupied areas was created
in January 1948 to meet an acute food
emergency and Assistant Secretary
Tracy S. Voorhees was appointed
administrator. Strikes, work stoppages
and riots occurred in the bizonal area
of Germany because of the scarcity.
of food. Although the official ration
was 1,550 calories, only about 1,200

34

Army for procurement and shipping
of the items, The category "B"” items
would continue to flow through the
commercial channels already esta-
blished for bizone trade. The ECA,
moreover, made adjustments in proce-
dures in the Bizone which materially
reduced the delays and difficulties in
contracting for industrial items. The
result was that, after a slow start, by
late October there was contracted
with suppliers about $100,000,000, of
ECA funds for industrial items.

ie contemplation of “payments agree-
ments” between the participa-
ting countries by which trade ac-
counts would be settled in local
currencies, and by which ECA dollars
would be available only for procure-
ment in "dollar areas,” that is, the
Western Hemisphere and other non-
participants, outside the sterling bloc,
the bizone and the other participa-
ting countries presented their Octo-
ber-December programs on the basis
of import programs from dollar
courses only.

Early in September, the OEEC had
approved an annual dollar allotment
to the bizone of $414,000,000 for the
period July 1, 1948 to June 30, 1949.
Subsequent to this approval greater
headway has been made both in con-
tracting and in the flow of industrial
goods into the Bizone. Approximately
$40,000,000 worth of industrial goods
was shipped in the October-early No-
vember period after a negligible start
as late as September. The category
"A" types were continuing to move
as the money was made available,
since the Army and the Department
of Agriculture were generally able to
purchase expeditiously and the Army
was able to transport the cargoes
promptly,

* *

the Occupied Areas

calories were actually being issued to
the normal consumer in the large
industrial areas.

Generals Clay and Robertson esti-
mated, on the basis of food on
hand and in prospect, that only 1,100
calories per day could be issued to
the normal consumer until the harvest
in the fall. This not only would have
seriously affected German economic

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 38 ---
progress and the projected European
recovery program, but would also
have threatened the maintenance of
law and order.

To meet the emergency, the Secre-
tary of the Army delegated to the
food administrator exclusive power to
spend as a single fund the entire
appropriation for government and
relief in occupied areas (GARIOA),
except for a few special items and the
amounts provided for administrative
expenses. The secretary also author-
ized the administrator to program
shipments and to use food on the
assumption that a deficiency appro-
priation of at least $100,000,000 would
be obtained from Congress. This
action was taken after consultation
with leaders of the Appropriation
Committees of Congress and the food
administrator was authorized to act
for the Secretary in further deficiency
and budget requests for GARIOA
funds.

The following summarizes the food
arrivals in Germany from July 1947
through October 1948 inclusive:

Month metric tons

July 1947 . 503,800
August 1947 . 547,600
September 1947 458,800
October 1947 310,600
November 1947 . 267,200
December 1947 . 314,100
January 1948 319,300
February 1948 360,800
March 1948 488,400
April 1948 614,900
May 1948 . 563,800
June 1948 . 714,400
"July 1948 . 625,725
August 1948 . 916,530
September 1948 795,950
October 1948 370,881
The approximate calorie ration

authorized to the normal consumer
over the period July 1947—October
1948 was as follows:

July 1947 1,555
August 1947 1,555
September 1947 . 1,430%
October 1947 . 1,425+
November 1947 1,425%
December 1947 1,4251

1 The official ration target during this
Period was 1,550 but shortages forced a
Teduction to the amount indicated,

MAY 17, 1949

January 1948 . 1,445?

February 1948 1,410?
March 1948 1,400?
April 1948 . 1,560?
May 1948 1,593*
June 1948 1,665*
July 1948 1,715
August 1948 1,830
September 1948 . 1,845
October 1948 . 1,845

N July and August 1948, in addition

to the authorized calorie ration,
bizone officials made special supple-
mental issues of perishables, which
increased the calorie intake of the
normal consumer by approximately
135 calories. This was accomplished
during a time of the year when the
food supply is usually at its lowest.

The improved food outlook in Ger-
many was aided by currency re-
form, excellent crop weather, and the
enormous potato crop, but resulted
most of all from the effective work
of Mr. Stanley Andrews, head of the
Food and Agriculture Group for the
bizonal area, and the members of his
staff.

GARIOA funds have been managed
so as not to permit the food
emergency to interfere with the basic
policy of making maximum use of
appropriated funds for items which
will enable the occupied areas to
help themselves, such as_ fertilizer,
seed, and materials for fishing equip-
ment, These items are given high
priority, as they increase food sup-
plies at smaller cost. Other aspects
of this policy are maximum operation
of the ordnance plants in the pro-
duction of nitrogen for farm use,
arrangements for nitrogen from Aus-
tria, increased imports of phosphates,
a well-rounded program for high
quality seeds to replace the lost Ger-
man seed production from eastern
Germany, and large expenditures for
materials for fishing equipment for
Japan. Seed potatoes bought from the
United States, Denmark, and Holland
with GARIOA funds have been one

2 Although this was the authorized ration,
it was not actually delivered in full and in
many parts of Germany fell below 1,200
calories.

3 These authorized rations were not
delivered in full in certain Laender to offset
their failure to meet their quotas of indigenous
food.

of the principal causes of the increase
in German potato production from
12,000,000 last year to an estimated
20,000,000 tons this year. This has
been the most significant single
improvement in indigenous food pro-
duction.

The passage of the Economic Co-
operation Act early in April coincided
with a 75-percent cut in the German
meat ration, resulting largely from
the German drought the preceding
year. Meat was not an item planned
for in the GARIOA program, but
this extreme ration cut promptly
threatened industrial production. In
order to deal with this emergency
before ECA funds could be obtained,
more than $11,000,000 in GARIOA
funds were advanced for meat imports,
reimbursement being made later by
ECA,

By July 15, advances of GARIOA
funds exceeding $50,000,000 had been
authorized by the Food Administrator
for purchasing items which were to
become a part of the ECA program.
Before actual obligations had been
incurred, however, ECA funds were
secured for more than half of the
amount needed, and reimbursement to
GARIOA has now been completed.
These GARIOA advances were limited
to so-called category “A” items, for
which alone the law clearly authorized
the use of GARIOA funds. Category
“A” items include such basic supplies
as food, fertilizer, seed, and petroleum
products, necessary to maintain the
fundamental economy of a country
and to prevent disease and unrest in
its population.

URING the 11-day period after

July 3 when no ECA money
could be spent for the bizone because
the bilateral agreement required by
the statute had not been signed,
GARIOA funds were used to maintain
without interruption all shipments of
the category “A” type.

At the suggestion of the Department
of the Army, a Procurement Planning
Subcommittee of the Cabinet Food
Committee was created of which
the Army Food Administrator was
a member. This committee was able
to arrange for the maximum use of
surplus foods and to avoid competitive
purchasing by different government

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
agencies with funds appropriated for
overseas relief. These arrangements
affected State Department, ECA, and
Army funds. It was agreed that certain
items would be bought for all by the
Department of Agriculture and others
bought for all by the Quartermaster
General.

Since in January 1948, United
States grain allocated for the occupied
areas was known to be inadequate,
the emergency food program depended
initially on maximum use of surplus
foods. During fiscal year 1948 approxi-
mately 1,800,000 tons of such foods
were placed under contract. The effect
was to add in food the calorie equi-
valent of more than one-third of
the total annual United States grain
allocation for all the occupied areas.

In the fall of 1947, 450,000 tons of
surplus raw Cuban sugar, already
owned by the United States Govern-
ment, were bought at a calorie cost
lower than the then current price
of wheat. A later purchase brought
the total to 1,450,000 tons, These sugar
purchases were the largest single factor
in the surplus food program for the
occapied areas. Sugar was the only
item, other than grain, available in
large amounts at a calorie cost
comparable to that of grain:

This was made possible by the
Interim Aid Act of 1948, which
authorized the Commodity Credit
Corporation to absorb a loss of ‘ap-
proximately $57,000,000 on United
States foods purchase in price-support
operations where resales were made
for overseas relief feeding, The food
administrator, utilizing this opportun-
ity to the full, purchased more than
370,000 tons of such products, including
more than 160,000 tons of prunes and
raisins, approximately 200,000 tons of
potatoes, 61,000,000 dozen dried eggs,
1,450,000 gallons of concentrated
grapefruit juice, and almost 5,000,000
pounds of honey. Other surplus foods
purchased were 235,000 tons of low
fat soya bean flour, 45,000 cases of
sweet potatoes, and 61,400 long tons
of peanuts.

N June 1948 the Food Administrator
also purchased 47,000 long tons of
dried fruits from the Department of
Agriculture at a 25-percent discount
from the price which Agriculture had
paid in its price-support operations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Fats and oils which were not avail-
able in the world market constituted
the most critical food shortage in
Germany during the winter of 1947-48.
Total allocations of imported fats for
Germany, including those for industrial
purposes, were only 120,000 tons for
the calendar year 1948. As the result
of strong representations by the food
administrator this allocation was
increased to 200,000 tons. Fats and
oil-bearing materials with a fat
content of over 85,000 tons were
shipped between January and June.
This was more than five times the
amount delivered in the preceding six
months. As a result, the 500-gram fat
ration for the normal consumer, which
had been seriously reduced, was
restored in April and the July
“call-up” provided 700 grams, a 600-
percent increase since January 1948.

Although grains, because of their
large availability, low calorie cost,
and ease of shipment, traditionally
constitute the bulk of any mass relief
feeding enterprise, the tight world
grain situation last winter made
step-up of such supplies extremely
difficult. United States allocations
for the fiscal year were limited to
3,600,000 tons for Germany, and
1,500,000 for the Pacific occupied areas.
The German allocation was maintained
at this figure only by the cooperation
of the Secretary of Agriculture, Dis-
appointment in the expected German
food collections, the serious extent
of which was known in January,
necessitated an increase in cereal
imports over and above all surplus
foods obtainable. Japan also acutely
needed more than the reduced allo-
cation it had received.

The food administrator laid the
problem before the Cabinet Food
Committee, and with its approval,
because no United States corn was
available for export, purchased 200,000
tons of Argentine new-crop corn at
an FAS price at Argentine ports which
compared favorably with the then
current United States prices. In spite
of serious delivery difficulties, this
corn arrived in time to be of great
assistance in alleviating the shortages
in the occupied areas.

The total cereal supply for the
occupied areas was further increased
by an exchange agreement negotiated

36

with Belgium for the delivery -of
49,000 tons of wheat for 70,000 tons
of Argentine corn and the right to
purchase an additional 70,000 tons...

Because of these efforts by the
Department of the Army to meet the
cereal shortage problem, the food
administrator was able to obtain from
the Cabinet Food Committee an
additional allocation of United States
cereals in the amount of 200,000 tons.

WO requests for appropriations

were made during the period.
The first was for a second deficiency
appropriation of $150,000,000. Of this
$143,000,000 was appropriated, after
the food administrator had stated to
the Congress that a $7,000,000 surplus
could be transferred to food from
funds originally allocated for pay and
travel of civilians.

The second was the budget request
for fiscal year 1949. Apart from items
for industrial recovery in Japan and
Korea, this was for $1,250,000,000.
It was passed by the House and re-
duced by the Senate to $1,200,000,000.
The final total appropriation of
$1,300,000,000, decided upon by. the
conference committee, included funds
for recovery in Japan and Korea,
of which approximately $1,200,000,000
were to be used for GARIOA type
items. ‘

One of the greatest single causes
of success in this work lay in the
willingness of former President Her-
bert C. Hoover to give his time to
advise the food administrator, and in
Mr. Hoover’s firm and strong support
for the deficiency appropriation and
the fiscal year 1949 budget request.
Mr. Hoover's confidence in the need
for and the conduct of the Army’s
relief feeding program had a profound
effect in providing the financial
sinews to make the relief program
possible.

While Mr. Hover's action unques-
tionably favorably affected the ap-
propriations, it was the courageous
and far-sighted action of the members
of both appropriations committees
which directly made possible the
voting of the funds, and which therer
fore constituted the foundation of. the
program. Moneys to pay what are in
effect very much like reparations from
the victors to the vanquished, certainly

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 40 ---
present less appeal to the Congress
and the public than any other requests
for appropriations. Though they are
necessary as an instrument of peace,
it required courage and vision to vote
these funds,

HE wholehearted cooperation of
the Department of Agriculture
with the Department of the Army has
been a vital factor in the success of the
whole program. Within the Department
of the Army, great assistance was
given the Food Administrator by the
Transportation Corps and the Quarter-
master Corps.

A fertilizer mission and a seed
mission, each headed by experts from
the Department of Agriculture, were
sent to Germany in the fall of 1948.
Two United States experts in crop
estimating were also sent. United
States specialists surveyed the prev-
alence of tuberculosis. A nutrition
mission attempted to determine the
minimum food requirements for the
economic rehabilitation of Germany
under the European Recovery Pro-
gram, The findings and recommenda-
tions of all these missions, in addition
to those of Mr. Hoover, helped guide
the food administrator's policy.

(Continued from page 4)
Institute of Public Affairs

and carrying through itineraries of
visiting experts brought to Germany
by Military Government and for
seeing that the experience of these
experts is used to best advantage. On
March 29 and 30, for instance, the
institute held a two-day-conference
on the health and welfare of mothers
and children. Prof. Jessie Bierman of
California and Dr. Gunnar Dybwad
reported on their finding during their
Six-week-study in the US zone, and
the 50 visiting German doctors and
welfare workers used the opportunity
for a critical review of the existing
situation,

Recently, the institute made the ar-
Tangements for a trip by Dr. Nicholas
Arkema, secretary general of the In-
ternational Municipal Association,
and also sponsored a lecture by Dr.
Arkema on "The Benefits of Govern-
mental Decentralization.”

It should be emphasized that the
Civil Administration Division does

MAY 17, 1949

not run the Institute of Public Affairs.
The institute is completely self-gover-
ning, and its policies are determined
democratically by its constituent
members, Although the experience
of the Public Administration Clearing
House in Chicago has been useful in
explaining to the Germans what an
institute of this kind can do, no at-
tempt has been made to imitate
PACH; in fact the institute has moved
into several fields (such as joint
research and education programs) in
which PACH does not operate.

The Civil Administration Division
has a liaison representative at the
institute, but his function is to ad-
vise, suggest and answer questions-
not to control or forbid. Only by de-
veloping the independence of the In-
stitute of Public Affairs in thought
and action can it fulfill its function
of being an independent “flywheel”
with respect to government and a
moral and intellectual control on the
public authorities.

(Continued from page 16)
Practicing Demcecracy

sacrifices for the continuance and
improvement of group life; they
become accustomed to judging their
own decisions and attitudes in accord-
ance with the standards of the group.
A new awareness of the responsibility
of the individual and the group to the
community as a whole is reached.

This recognition of responsibility
may be achieved directly by some
group activities. Possibilities of group
action involving service to the com-
munity include such projects as the
reconsttuction of a youth hostel, the
clearing and replanting of a neglected
park in town or an action for the
benefit of refugees.

We are learning in Germany that
no one can escape the consequences
of decisions taken by or for the
community. A real conception of the
aims and methods of group work will
help young Germans to find their way
to a new philosophy of life.

The training of group leaders will
be the most urgent task. If these
group leaders are induced to stress
the right of the individual to develop
his own personality, they themselves
will become much more sensitive to
the difference between autocratic

37

and democratic leadership. They will
not wish to establish a new leader-
principle because they will ‘realize
that this would mean for themselves
also the loss of “freedom of choice.”
They will see that as a part of the
hierachy of leaders in a new totali-
tarian system they would only be
a tool in the hands of their superiors.

School Girl in US

The best way to achieve world
peace is to give young people of dif-
ferent nations the opportunity to get
acquainted with each other, an
18-year old Frankfurt school girl,
on a tour of the United States,
wrote in a letter of thanks to Dr.
Marie Schnieders, chief of the Cultural
Exchange Branch, OMG Hesee.

Elfriede Knapp, editor of the juvenile
magazine ‘Bobby Soxer," went to the
United States for a 10-weeks visit
last December, with other youngsters
from 17 Marshall Plan countries as
the guest of the Herald Tribune forum.

“We young people from 18 different
countries ares coming along very well
on this trip and we cannot see any
reason why this should not be 80
forever’ Miss Knapp wrote. ‘We,
therefore, are now planning to found
a youth association, which by cor-
responding and, if possible, by trav-
eling to foreign countries, shall
promote friendship and understanding
among the young people of all nations.

“We feel enthusiastic about this
idea and are especially grateful to
Americans, who, wherever we talked
about our association, become sup-
porters of it.”

The youthful Frankfurt editor made
news when she was granted an
audience with President Truman in
Washington, where she presented him
several copies of her magazine and
thanked him for American relief work
and the school-feeding program in
Germany.

Dr. Faustus is Best Seller
With the printing of a second
edition consisting of 7,500 volumes,
Thomas Mann's “Dr. Faustus" became
the leading serious literary publication
to appear within the past 12 months,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Potsdam to Bonn
— — Chronology of Political Development

The German political development from the promulgation of
the Potsdam Agreement to the drafting of the Basic Law by
the Provisional Council at Bonn, especially as it concerns
the US Zone is outlined in the following chronology compiled
by the Public Information Office, OMGUS, with the assistance
of the Civil Administration Division and the Office of
Political Affairs of OMGUS,

The events reviewed here trace in a condensed, summary
form the basis for Military Government control in Germany,
the original four-power negotiations for a unified Germany,
the breakdown of four-power discussions, the American effort
as an alternative measure to obtain as much economic and
political unification for Germany as practical, the early and
progressive authorization of German self-government in the
US Zone, the delegation of authority to set up a trizonal
German government under the framework of the London agree-
ments, the offer of substantial new powers to a west German
federal government and its participating states.

1, Allies agree to coordinated zonal administration of
Germany.

Feb, 3—11, 1945— Prime Minister Churchill, President
Roosevelt and Marshal Stalin state during Crimea Con-
ference at Yalta:

Under the agreed. plans the forces of the three powers
will each occupy a separate zone of Germany. Coordinated
administration and control has been provided for under
the plan through a Central Control Commission consist-
ing of the Supreme Commanders of the three powers with
headquarters in Berlin. It has been agreed that France
should be invited by the three Powers, if she should so
desire, to take a zone of occupation and to participate as
fourth member of the Control Commission.

2. United States proposes decentralizing of German gov-
ernment and eventual rebuilding of German life on a
democratic basis.

April 26, 1945 — Directive (J. C. S. 1067/6) to the Com-
mander-in-Chief of US Occupation Forces states:

The administration of affairs in Germany shall be direct-
ed towards the decentralization of the political and ad-
ministrative structure and the development of local
responsibility. To this end you will encourage autonomy
in regional, local and municipal agencies of German
administration...

The principal Allied objective is to prevent Germany
from ever again becoming a threat to the peace of the
world. Essential steps in the accomplishment of this ob-
jective are the elimination of Nazism and militarism in all
their forms, the immediate disarmament and demilitari-
zation of Germany, with continuing control over Germany's
capacity to make war, and the preparation for an eventual
reconstruction of German political life on a democratic
basis.

3, Germany surrenders unconditionally; United Klindom,
United States USSR, ard France assume supreme authority
in Germany, including all powers of central, state and
local government

INFORMATION BULLETIN

June 5, 1945—Allied Representatives Eisenhower,
Zhukov, Montgomery and Lattre-Tassigny sign declaration
in Berlin stating:

The German armed forces on land, at sea and in the air
have been completely defeated and have surrendered :
unconditionally and Germany, which bears responsibility
for the war, is no longer capable of resisting the will of
the victorious powers. The unconditional surrender of
Germany has thereby been effected, and Germany has
become subject to such requirements as may now or
hereafter be imposed upon her.

There is no central government or authority in Germany
capable of accepting responsibility for the maintenance of
order, the administration of the country and compliance
with the requirements of the victorious powers...

The governments of the United Kingdom, the United
States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-
publics, and the Provisional Government of the French
Republic, hereby assume supreme authority with respect
to Germany, including all the powers possessed by the
German government, the High Command and any state,
municipal or local government or authority.

4, Four powers agree to consult with other United
Nations on Germany.

June 5, 1945— Statement by ogvernments of UK, US,
USSR and France announces that ii is their intention to
consult with the governments of other United Nations in
connection with the exercise of this authority.

5. Four powers establish zones in Germany and a joint
occupation of Berlin.

June 5, 1945—Four governments state that for purposes
of occupation, Germany will be divided into four zones:

One to be aliotted to each power as follows: an eastern
zone to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; a north-
western zone to the United Kingdom; a southwestern
zone to the United States of America; a western zone to
France.

The area of ‘Greater Berlin’ will be occupied by forces
of each of the four powers. An Inter-Allied Governing
Authority (in Russian, Komandatura) consisting of four
commandants, appointed by their resp2ctive commanders-
in-chief, will be established to direct jointly its ad-
ministration

6. Four powers prepose “appropriate uniformity of
action” in regard to Germany.

June 5, 1945 Four governments state that:

The Control Council, whose decisions shall be unanimous,
will ensure appropriate uniformity of action by the Com-
manders-in-Chief in their respective zones of occupation
and will reach agreed decisions on the chief questions
afiecting Germany as a whole...

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 42 ---
Liaison with the other United Nations governments
chiefly interested will be established through the appointi-
ment by such governments of military missions (which
may include civilian members) to the Control Council.

7. Russian, American and British leaders agree on polit-
ical decentralizalion of Germany with, however, certain
central German administrative departments.

July 17—Aug. 2, 1945 — Marshal Stalin, President Truman
and Prime Minister Attlee declare their purpose (Potsdam):

To prepare for the eventual reconstruction of German
political life on a democratic basis and for eventual
peaceful cooperation in international life by Germany...

The administration of affairs in Germany should be
directed towards the decentralization of the political
stiucture and the development of local responsibility...

For the time being, no central German government shall
be established. Notwithstanding this, however, certain
essential central German administrative departments,
headed by State Secretaries, shall be established, par-
ticularly in the field of finance, transport, communications,
foreign trade and industry. Such departments will act
under the direction of the Control Council...

8. Russian, American and British leaders agree to treat
Germany as a single economic unil.

July 17—Aug. 2, 1945 — Marshal Stalin, President Truman
and Prime Minister Attlee declare at Potsdam that:

During the period of the occupation, Germany shall be
treated as a single economic unit. To this end common
policies shall be established in regard Jo: (a) Mining and
industrial production and allocation; (b) agriculture, for-
estry and fishing; (c) wages, prices and rationing; (d) im-
port and export programs for Germany as a whole; (e) cur-
rency and banking, central taxation and _ customs;
(f) reparation and removal of indusirial war potential;
(g) transportation and communications. In applying these
policies, account shall be taken, where appropriate, of
varying local conditions.

9, US zone authorities sponsor first democratic elections
in postwar Germany at local government level.

Jan. 20 and 27, 1946— Community elections are held
in communities with population of less than 20,000 people,
for the community council, which in turn elects a mayor.
In smaller Bavarian towns, mayor is directly elected.

10. Four-power Allied Control Authority fails to agree
on measures to implement Potsdam agreement (points 7
and 8 above), particularly concerning economic unification
oi Germany. United States offers to merge economy oi
its occupation zone with that of any other occupying
Power or powers.

July 20, 1946 — US General McNarney extends invitation
at 34th meeting of Allied Control Council at Berlin.

11. United Kingdom accepts in principle the US offer
(point 10 above).

July 30, 1946 —Sir Sholto Douglas at 35th meeting of
Allied Control Council in Berlin. Meeting of American
and British Deputy Military Governors, Aug. 9, 1946.

12. US again invites other occupation powers to join
ecenomic fusion.

MAY 17, 1949

Sept.6, 1946— Secretary of State
Stuttgart:

The failure of the Allied Control Council (point no. 10
above) to take the necessary steps to enable the German
economy to function as an economic unit. Essential central
German administrative departments have not been
establislizd, although they are expressly required by the
Potsdam Agreement (point no. 7 above).

Byrnes cites at

The United States is firmly of the belief that Germany
should be administered as an economic unit and that
zonal barriers should be completely obliterated so far as
the economic life and activity in Germany are con-
cerned...

(The American government) has formally announced
that it is its intention to unify the economy of its own
zone with any or all of the other zones willing to partic-
ipate in the unification... Of course, this Policy of
unification is not intended to exclude the Governments
nol now willing to join. The unification will be open to
them at any time they wish to join.

13. US favors establishment of a provisional central
government for Germany.

Sept. 6, 1946 Secretary of State Byrnes declares at
Stuttgart:

The time has come when the zonal boundaries should
be regarded as defining only the areas to be occupied
for security purposes by the armed forces of the occupying
powers, and not as self-contained economic or political
units...

The Potsdam Agreement did not provide that there
should never be a central German government. It merely
provided that for the time being there should be no central
German government. Certainly this only meant that no
central government should be established until some sort
of democracy was rooted in the soil of Germany and
some sense of local responsibility developed.

The Potsdam Agreement wisely provided that adminis-
tration of the affairs of Germany should be directed
towards decentralization of the political structure and the
development of local responsibility. This was not intended
to prevent progress toward a central government with
the powers necessary to deal with matters which should
be dealt with on a nation-wide basis. But it was intended
to prevent the establishment of a strong central govern-
ment dominating the German people instead of being
Tesponsible to their democratic will.

ft is the view of the American government that the
German people throughout Germany under proper
safeguards should now be given the primary responsibility
ior tK2 running of their own affairs... The United States
favors the early establishment of a provisional German
government for Germany.

14. US proposes federal constitution for Germany.

Sept. 6, 1946—Secretary of State Byrnes says at Stuttgart:

Subject to the reserved authority of the Allied Control
Council, the German National Council should be respon-
sible for the proper functioning of the central ad-

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
ministrative agencies. Those agencies should have ad-
equate power to assure the administration of Germany
as an economic unit as was contemplated by the Potsdam
Agreement.

The German National Council should also be charged
with the preparation of a draft of a federal constitution for
Germany which among other things should ensure the
democratic character ot the new Germany and the human
tights and fundamental freedoms of all its inhabitants.
After approval in principle by the Allied Control Council,
the proposed constitution should be submitted to an elect-
ed convention for final drafting and then submitted to
the German people for ratification.

15. US Zone states hold democratic elections.

Nov. 24, 1946 and Dec. 1, 1946—People of Wuerttemberg-
Baden, Hesse and Bavaria approve proposed
stitutions drafted by elected constitutional assemblies,
and elect state legislatures.

con-

16. Economic and financial fusion of US/UK zones.
Bipartite Board is created. Two governments implement
agreement and offer to extend economic fusion to all
Germany.

Dec. 2, 1946 and Dec, 17, 1947—Byrnes-Bevin Agreement
at Washington, D.C. Lovett-Strang amendment. Byrnes-
Bevin agreement states:

...the aim of the two governments is to achieve the
economic unity of Germany as a whole, in accordance
with the agreement reached at Potsdam on Aug. 2, 1945...
The two governments are ready at any time to enter
into discussions with either of the other occupying powers
with a view to the extension of these arrangements to
their zones of occupation.

17. Establishment of central
agencies again proposed by US.

March 17, 1947—Secretary of State Marshall, at Foreign
Ministers Conference, Moscow says:

We recommend that the central German agencies agreed
at Potsdam, togeth2r with a food and agriculture agency
which the zeport of the Allied Control Authority recom-
mended as equally necessary, be established at the
earliest possible date.

German administrative

18. US proposes provisional Government for Germany.

March 21, 1947—Secretary Marshall, at Foreign Ministers
Conference, Moscow:

The time has now come to authorize the Germans to
establish a provisional government to deal with matters
of a nation-wide concern which the states cannot ad-
equately handle.

He recommends:

The drafting and acceptance of a constitution which shall
be German in origin, and which shall be consistent with
democratic principles and the decentralization of gov-
ernmental authority. By decentralization we mean that
the central government shall be one of limited and
carefully defined powers in matters where nation-wide
action is required. All residual powers shall be retained
by the states.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

19. Federal, democratic central government for Ger-
many declared to be US objective.

July 15, 1947—Directive on US objectives and basic
policies in Germany advises US Military Governor:

It is the view of your government that the most con-
structive development of German political life would be
in the establishment throughout Germany of federal
German states and the formation of a central German
government with carefully defined and limited powers
and function, All powers shall be vested in the states
except such as are expressly delegated to the central
government.

Your governmeni does not wish to impose its own
historically-developed forms of democracy and social
organizalion on Germany and believes equally firmly
that no other external forms should be imposed. It seeks
the establishment in Germany of a political organization
which is derived from the people and subject to their
control, which operates in accordance with democratic
electoral procedures, and which is dedicated to uphold
both the basic civil and human rights of the individual,

{t is opposed to an excessively centralized government
which through a concentration of power may threaten
both the existence of democracy in Germany and the
security of Germany's neighbors and the rest of the world.

Your government believes finally that, within the prin-
ciples stated above, the ultimate constitutional form of
German political life should be lzft to the decision of the
German people made freely in accordance with democratic
processes. :

20. Western nations agree to authorize Germans of three
western zones to organize a provisional government along
federal lines as a slep toward eventual unification of
Germany.

June 7, 1948—Report of talks on Germany held. by
representatives of the United States, United Kingdom,
France, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, in London cites
the previous failure to reach comprehensive four-powe!
decisions on Germany and makes recommendations which
in no way preclude and, on the contrary, should facilitate
eventual four-power agreement on the German problem.

Recommendations envisage the convening of a west
German Constituent Assembly to prepare a constitution for
the approval of the participating states.

The constitution should be such as to enable the Germans
to play their part in bringing to an end the present
division of Germany not by the reconstitution of a
centralized Reich but by means of a federal form of gov-
ernment which adequately protects the rights of the
respective states, and which at the same time provides for
adequate central authority and which guarantees the
tights and freedoms of the individual.

ff the constitution as prepared by the Constituent
Assembly does not conflict with these general principles,
the Military Governors will authorize its submission for
ratification by the people in the respective states,

The conferees recognize...that it is necessary to give
the German people the opportunity to achieve, on the
basis of a free and democratic form of government, the

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 44 ---
eventual re-establishment of German unity, at present
disrupted.

21. Tripartite Governments define characteristics of
“decentralized federal government” proposed by London
Agreement.

In a letter of advice to the Military Governors, the
three governments (US, UK, France) recognize that a
decentralized federal government can be obtained in
several ways, but state that in general such a government
for Germany should provide:

(a) For a bicameral legislative system, with one of the
houses representing ‘and safeguarding the interests of
individual states;

(b) That the executive must have only powers definitely
prescribed by the constitution, with emergency powers, if
any, subject to prompt legislative or judicial review;

(c) That the powers of the federal government be
limited to fields expressly enumerated in the constitution;

(d) That the powers of the federal government in pubtic
finance be resticted to disposal of funds including raising
of revenues for purposes for which it is responsible,
aithough federal government may rule on general prin-
ciples cf assessment with regard to other taxes for which
uniformity is necessary, with collection and utilization of
such taxes left to individual states;

(e) That the constitution provide for an independent
judiciary to review federal legislation and to protect civil
rights and individual freedom;

(f) That establishment of federal agencies be limited
to fields where state implementation is clearly impractical

22. Western Military Governors advise Germans of
London decisions to delegate additional powers of self-
government to the west German people.

July 1, 1948—The ministers president of eleven German
states of the US, UK and French occupation zones meet
in Frankfurt with the Military Governors and receive
authorization to convene a constituent assembly for the
following purpose:

To draft a democratic constitution which will establish
for the participating states a governmental structure of
federal type which is best adapted to the eventual re-
establishment of German unity at present disrupted, and
which will protect the tights of the participating states,
Provide adequate central authority, and contain guarantees
of individual rights and freedoms.

lf the constitution does not conflict with these prin-
ciples, the Military Governors plan to authorize its sub-
mission for ratification.

When the constitution has been ratified by two-thirds
of the states, it will come into force and be binding upon
all states, Amendments are to be ratified by a like majority
Of the states.

23. Military Governors advise German Ministers
President of plan for Occupation Statute to define
relationship of proposed German government and Allied
authorities,

July 1, 1948—at Frankfurt, Military Governors inform
German ministers president of their willingness to;

MAY 17, 1949
" Al

...gtant legislative, executive and judicial power to
German governments and reserve to themselves such
powers as are necessary to ensure the basic purposes of
the occupation. Such reserved powers are enumerated,

24. German leaders “welcome” provisional plan to unite
west Germany.

July 8-10, 1948—Ministers president of western zones
meet in Coblenz to consider Allied offer (point no, 23
above). July 12, 1948--They advise Military Governors
in Frankfurt of their conviction that:

The critical difficulties under which Germany suffers
today can be overcome only if the German people are
enabled to administer their affairs on the broadest
territorial basis possible at any given time. They welcome,
therefore, the Occupying Powers’ determination to combine
the arzas of Germany which are subject to their juris-
diction into a unified territory to which the population
itself shall give a vigorous organization which makes
it possible to preserve the interest of the whole without
prejudicing the rights of the states. :

25. Ministers President assume responsibility for con-
vening Constituent Assembly.

July 12, 1948—German conferees advise Allies at
Frankfurt: .

The ministers president will assume the powers delegated
to them on July 1, 1948 (point no. 22 above) by the
Military Governors of the American, British, and French
zones,

26. Ministers President affirm London Agreement as a
framework for new German authority.

Final reply cf ministers president, Frankfurt, July 26,
1948, to Military Governors’ proposals following the Lon-
don decisions states that the ministers president are
prepared to create, within the framework of the London
Agreements, a political and economic organization for
Western Germany. A spokesman adds that the attitude of
the minisiers president as a whole to the London decisions
is fundamentally positive; in fact, that ever since Coblenz
(point no, 24 above) it could be said that the ministers
president had accepted the London proposals.

27. West German States name delegates to Constituent
Assembly.

August, 1948—The legislatures of eleven west German
states arrange for selection of delegates, with each state
represented in proportion to population,

28. Parliamentary Council (Constituent Assembly) meets
to draft provisional constitution for Trizonal area.

Sept. 1, 1948—Council convenes at Bonn (British Zone).
Committees plan specific sections of proposed constitution
for west Germany.

29. Allies begin work on an Occupation Statute.

October, 1948—Military Governors establish Tripartite
Committee to draft Occupation Statute (point no, 23 above)
to be promulgated simultaneously with the provisional
constitution. ,

30. American, British and French Zones agree to merge

foreign trade. (Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
Oct. 18, 1948—The three Military Governors sign agree-
ment in Berlin by which foreign trade activities of the
French Zone are to be merged with the foreign trade
activities of the Combined US/UK Zones of Germany.

31. Military Governors provide Parliamentary Council
ait Bonn with guidance as ito principles by which Con-
stitution will be reviewed.

Nov. 22, 1948—-An aide-memoire left with President of
the Parliamentary Council in Bonn recalls that the Par-
liamentary Council has freely discussed for 11 weeks
the proposed constitution which is to be created within
the framework of the London Agreement, The Military
Governors recognize that there are several ways in which
democratic federal government can be obtained and
therefore intend to pass final review only on the basic
law in its whole context, Nevertheless, they believe that
the basic law! should to the maximum extent possible
embody certain provisions, which are listed. (Provisions
generally follow lines of letter of advice to Military
Governors implementing London Agreement, point no. 21
above.)

32. Delegates from Parliamentary Council meet with
Military Governors.

Dec. 16, 1948—German delegation from Bonn, in Frank-
furt asks Military Governors about several points in con-
nection with Occupation Statute and the draft of the
constitution, Dec, 17, 1948—Military Governors reply
that Occupation Statute is still under discussion
and has not yet been submitted to three governments
involved, and they offer to answer specific questions

+ about it. Military Governors also comment on draft of
constitution; including financial powers and upper legis-
Jative chamber, citing importance of these provisions in
a sound federal organization.

33. Military Governors again comment to Parliamentary
Council representatives on contents of draft constitution.

March 2, 1949—Generals Robertson, Clay and Koenig
meet in Frankfurt with delegates from Bonn to comment
on basic law as passed by the Main Committee of the
Parliamentary Council.

Governors point out deviations from principles set forth
in their aide-memoire of Nov. 22, 1948 (point no. 31
above).

However, in viewing the document as a whole we are
prepared to disregard some of these deviations but at the
same time feel it necessary to call your urgent attention

to other provisions which, in our opinion, depart too far
from these principles.

Provisions cited include powers of federal government
(not defined with sufficient clarity ad2quately to safeguard
the position of the states in a federal system); finance
powers (danger of leaving slates without adequate
independent sources of revenue for the conduct of their
affairs); and other points.

34. American, British, French Foreign Secretaries
reaffirm Allied viewpoint to Parliamentary Council.

April, 5, 1949—Communication from foreign secretaries
of US, UK, and France meeting in Washington transmitted
to President of Parliamentary Council, trusts that the
Parliamentary Council and the responsible German party
leaders will give due’ consideration to the recommendations
of the Military Governors (point no. 33 ‘above), which
contorm with the provisions of the London Agreement
(points 20 and 21 above) authorizing the establishment of
a German democratic federal government. Foreign
ministers hope Parliamentary Council by its action will
facilitate mutually cooperative attitude between the future
German federal authorities and the occupying powers,

35. Three foreign ministers reach “complete agreement”
on “whole range of issues now pending in connection with
Germany."

April 8, 1949—French, British and American foreign
ministers issue communique, Washington, announcing
agreement on (1) Occupation Statute, (2) Tripartite Allied
control machinery, (3) plant dismantling, prohibited and
restricted industries and international Ruhr authority,
natters previously negotiated in London, (4) termination
of Military Government as such upon the establishment
of a German federal republic, with Allied function in
Germany becoming mainly supervisory under a democratic
federal state within the framework of a European asso-
ciation, (5) opportunity for German federal republic, after
negotiation of ECA agreement, lo become a full member
in the Organization for European Economic Cooperation.

36. Allied Occupation Statute is transmitted to German
Parliamentary Council.

April 10, 1949—Text of Occupation Statute transmitted
to German officials at Bonn provides that, subject only
to limitations of the Statute, the German federal state and
the participating states will have full legislative, executive
and judicial powers in accordance with the basic law and
with their respective constitutions, Provision is made for
review of the Statute after a year in force. -+END

Confiscation of Property

No significant confiscation of landed
property belonging to Nazis and
militarists has been carried out in
the US Zone, according to the most
recent information received from the
US Zone states.

Failure of the respective Minister
Presidents of the US Zone to imple-
ment final denazification decisions

INFORMATION BULLETIN

confiscating property was brought to

“the attention of MG directors in the

US Zone by OMGUS April 14, re-
quiring that this condition be brought
to the personal attention of the
ministers president. Inasmuch as
failure in this field will be widely
interpreted as unwillingness on the
part of the German government to
carry out the punishment inflicted on

42

major Nazis, attention of the ministers
president was invited to an OMGUS
directive of January 1948 which re-
quired them to confiscate properties
made available to the states through
denazification decisions and to insure
that real property so confiscated,
which is subject to the land reform
laws, be made available promptly to
the land settlement authorities.

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 46 ---
Bonn as Capital

— — Chosen by Parliamentary Council

ONN, a quiet Rhenish city of
B 50,000 residents on the west bank
of the Rhine a few miles south of
Cologne, has been proud for nearly
two centuries of one historical event:
Ludwig van Beethoven, the composer,
was born in a small house off a
downtown street in December 1770.
During recent months history again
has been made at Bonn.

Late Sunday night, May 8—four
years to the day after Germany's
surrender—the Parliamentary Council,
after meeting since last Sept. 1, passed
a basic law for Western Germany.
With this act the name _ of
Bonn and the so-called “Bonn Con-
stitution” became linked to Germany's
second try at democracy, as Weimar
was connected with her first attempt
in 1919.

Forty-eight hours later, formerly
placid Bonn passed another milestone
in its history. It was chosen in a
33-to-29 vote of the Parliamentary
Council to become the first seat of
Germany's first postwar government
at federal level. The other 29 votes
were for Frankfurt with two absten-
tions and one invalid vote in secret
balloting.

AS GERMANY'S first federal capi-

tal since the beginning of the
occupation, Bonn probably will re-
ceive hundreds of German officials
and visitors plus MG observers from
France, England, the United States and
possibly other nations.

Already, signs in Bonn streets ap-
pear in four languages: German for
the natives, French and Flemish for the
Belgian military occupation forces,
and English for the British Military
Government authorities, Bonn, lying
in the British Zone of Germany, is
occupied by Belgian troops,

ONN has been a melting-pot

before. Legend says it was found-
ed by the Romans. In later centuries
it was populated by Rhinelanders,
folk who looked at one time in their
history to the culture of nearby
France, and at least since the last

MAY 17, 1949

century toward the develop:ng Ger-
man nation. Natives of Bonn, while
proud of their “Rheinische Froehlich-
keit’’ (Rhenish gaiety), credit another
family of Germans, the Prussians, with
bringing fame and prosperity to their

city.
It was the Prussians who ad-
ministered Bonn after 1814-15, in

the wake of the Napoleonic wars.
Prussians built the Rhenish Friedrich
Wilhelm University in Bonn in 1818,

Pedagogical Academy at Bonn

an event which Bonn historians
declare transformed the city into “the
spiritual] capita] of the Rhineland.”
The University of Bonn grew until
before the last war it had seven
colleges and more than 80 institutes.

Until wartime, Bonn
thousands of music-lovers at its
annual Beethoven festivals, Visitors
crowded into the city’s downtown
Main Square to hear performances
of the master's symphonies.

entertained

OST tourists made a point of
visiting the city’s principal
shrine, a musty greystone house off
a busy downtown street where Bee-

43

thoven was born. It is somewhat a
sore point to Bonners that the com-
poser left his home town for Vienna
in his teens and never returned. A
guide at the Beethoven House shrugs
and explains, “You see, roads in those
days’ were poor.”

Bonn has other showplaces: a great
cathedral, the Rhenish Landesmuseum
with its Roman and medieval relics,
the modern Alexander Koenig Museum
with realistically colored and elec-

(Photo from Dick/Tagesspiegel)

trically lighted “dioramas” of wild-
life scenes,

The new capital's showiest street
is Poppelsdorfer Allee, a wide, green
boulevard chestnut and
linden trees. In monarchical times an
elector from nearby Cologne built
the Poppelsdorf palace at one end of
the thoroughfare. His aristocratic
friends lived near him in great houses
fronting Poppelsdorfer Allee. In to-
day's harder times, many of the
families living in these square and
stately homes rent rooms to students
from the university. Today the palace

(Continued on next page)

lined with

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
is partly destroyed and its lawns are
a botanical garden.

Bonn's second proud way is Koblen-
zer Strasse—once called “the street of
millionaires.”

T BONN the Rhine is wide, Dur-
ing normal times it was the
scene of sailing regattas. Bombing de-
stroyed the river bridge, but a ferry
plies the Rhine. Rising beyond the
river's opposite shore are the “Seven
Peaks.” A few miles south, on the
same side of the river, is Bad Godes-
berg. A few miles further south is
Remagen, site of the famed American
first crossing of the Rhine in the
closing days of the war.
The new capital, sheltered in its
river valley, boasts a climate milder
than that of northern and eastern

Germany.
Germany's Parliamentary Council
has been meeting in the Peda-

gogical Academy, large, modern, white
concrete building on the Rhine bank.
No plans have yet been announced
for office space for the expanded
headquarters of the new government.
However, several weeks ago a com-
mittee of the Parliamentary Council
made a study of facilities here, in
Frankfurt and in other proposed sites
of the new capital. +END

(Continued from page 8)
New Horizons

conclusion arrived at by the pragmatic
method.

ELEGATES who basically espoused
the pragmatic method saw the
same practical dangers. Dr. Hovde
warned, ‘We can, therefore, well
afford to wait upon a slower rate of
German industrial recovery if that is
necessary to guarantee that its direc-
tion be lodged in socially responsible
hands, rather than in the more
technically skilled but dangerous hands
of the powerful social pirates who
directed the German economy before
Hitler and for Hitler. And I am not
digressing when I add that it is
precisely for this reason that the
nature of education in Germany takes
on special significance.”
A similar danger, inherent in the
method in which economic recovery

INFORMATION BULLETIN

in western society was being assisted,
namely, through the Marshall Plan,
was presented from the floor by one
of the Danish delegates who stated:
“T want to point out that this new
planned act in itself may be ia danger
for democratic recovery... The danger
is that interest in public effort is
withering away because instead of the
old Fuehrerschaft (leadership) we have
a new expert leadership and a gulf
is opened between the common man
in the street and the people who at
international conferences plan and
make decisions for him... There is
a danger when people cease to say
‘we’ and ‘our’ about public efforts
and say ‘they’ and ‘their’ instead.
“We must try not to confine ourselves
to... schools and classrooms and
state interference, but take into
consideration the popular movements
and organizations of every kind. It
will be better when the ordinary
people can say: “We did it, our
fellows did it,’ than when the experts
do the right thing but the common
man says: ‘I have nothing to do with
it, it's not my business.’ There is the
danger that a new world-wide cooper-
ation of national economics tends to
create such a feeling, and I find that
when that is the case there will be
the possibility for... new political
crises.""

UT what of the crises as analyzed
by those who spoke in spiritual
terms? Dr. Bergendorff, looking back
to the origins of western civilization,
considered that much has depended
on what men have thought law to be:
“It was the rationalistic school of the
17th ‘and 18th centuries which eman-
cipated itself from the Church, and
which subjected the Church to natural
law rather than natural law to
the Church, and sought even to
determine the nature of the Church
by principles which are themselves
independed of the Church. What
happened in law happened also in
philosophy, art, literature.
“Objective standards have yielded,”
he said, “to a subjective existence
which determines its own standards,
even if they be for oneself alone.
“The comparatively recent breaking
away of education from the Church
is a consequence of the rejection of

44

objective standards and of the attempt
of single nations or even individuals
to determine their own criteria.

“The separation of Church and
State, without any reference to
religion, coupled with the irresponsi-
bility of the State which follows
from the rejection of religion, and
with the widening control by the
State of its citizens, and logically
come to no other conclusion than the
philosophy on which Communism
itself rests. When power is relieved of
control, it stops short of nothing but
its own deification.”

Dr. Bergendorff stated further that
an attempt was being made to
construct societies apart from all
religion, but that nations and tyrants
and alliances of nations are in fact,
not superior in their authority.

Where the principles of eternal
validity are subordinate to the
command of a sovereign, he who
acquires power declares what is law
and right... Education is not
autonomous and depends on the dis-
position of those in power; it may be
prostituted to evil purpose. The fate
of education today is the fate of all
humanity.

“IT am not unaware," he declared,
“of a contemporary spirit which can
hardly be called a philosophy. It con-
tains no organized body of knowledge
or way of thought. It comes less from
books or schools, but arises as a
poisonous breath from dying or-
ganisms of society. It paralyzes
effort, and if it has any faith at all,
it is a faith in suicide. I refer to what
is broadly termed nihilism.”

HAT are the principles of eternal

validity? Dr. Bergendorff propably
assumed that those are too well
known to require definition, or that
they are to be arrived at by their
opposites, e. g., nihilism and ma-
terialism.

The responses to Dr. Bergendorff's
address were, for the greater part,
affirmations of the thesis presented.
Two variations of the same thesis
may be selected as illustration.

“The crisis," Miss Ruth F. Wood-
small, chief of the E&CR Women's
Affairs Section, submitted, “is in the
loss of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of eternal validity. We need a

MAY 17, 1949

--- Page 48 ---
deeper concept of the meaning of
protherhood. We must recognize that
there are absolute principles which
are not of our own making. To un-
derstand those concepts is only the
beginning in our education task, to
translate them into current speech is
cour constant challenge."

Dr. V. A. M. Beerman, a delegate
from the Netherlands, elaborated:
“We are in a period now of the
wasting away of Christianity and
living more and more in a world
without spiritual guidance, heading
inevitably to a world of nihilism, but
this was the logical consequence.”

Having accepted the principle thesis,
the next question was: ‘What should
we teach of religion in schools
embracing various religions?”

Dr. Roswell Barnes, US delegate

from the American Council of
Churches, raised this question as
having practical implications for
education and also proposed an

answer on the basis of studies made
on this problem in the United States:
“I suggest two essential prospects of
education which we may call religious:
First, the giving of a ground or
sanction for the essential dignity of
the individual, for his rights, his
duties or responsibility to the com-
munity, to his fellow men a sanction
and ground which is derived from
some solution more ultimate and basic
than the State. The other basic fa-
cility, it seems to me, which should
be organized by all of us and by
a part of public education, is the
teaching that the State is not morally
autonomous but subsists under the
governance of a Divine Creator, God."

UT are we correct in condemning
the estrangement of man from
the absolutes, the eternal validities or
in bemoaning the tendency to forsake
the objective for the subjective? Mr.
Johannes Novrup of Denmark was
one of the few to propose that the
lack of old standards were not to be
deplored but regarded as a liberation:
“With the dissolving of old standards,
new solutions have been possible."
Mr. Novrup's submission evoked
little response either by other panel
members or by the audience. This
Silence may be, perhaps, regarded as
an interesting commentary itself on
the composition of this particular

MAY 17, 1949

conference group as it is reasonably
certain that political scientists or
modern European historians would at
the least have reminded the assembly
that democracy is heavily indebted
to the thinkers os the 17th and 18th
centuries, particularly the philosophers
who, basing their thinking on natural
laws, developed much of the in-
tellectual content and inspiration for
the democratic governments which
were established in both the United
States and France.

The three major addresses left no
doubt that the trends toward a united
Europe cannot be thought of in terms
of political factors alone. The
necessity for greater unity was
reflected in all addresses.

Refering to tragic blunders in social
and economic affairs of the past
decade, Dr. Hovde stated: “In a time
when Western civilization could have
united to achieve a democratic,
economic and social program, nations
grew selfish and fearful, some of them
resorting to dictatorship for the
leadership they thought could save
them alone out of the deluge. In the
1930's, Europe had momentous de-
cisions to make .... as Europe.
Instead of seeking economic health
by making themselves parts of a
whole, the nations of Europe raised
tariff walls against one another, tried
to attain an impossible self-sufficiency,
and resorted virtually to international
barter for the raw materials.”

N RESPECT to the religious phase,

Dr, Bergendoff submitted: “As if
sensing the struggle in which they
stand to overwhelming forces in
modern life, the churches of a large
part of the world have given evidence
to our generation of a new sense of
unity, The ecumenical movement had
its origins in the very years when the
World War I shattered the dreams of
men that mankind was on its way to
peace and unity.

“Gathering momentum in the years
between the wars, this movement has
brought the churches closer together
than ever before and proved a bond
uniting Christians even in the darkest
days of World War II. And in coming
together, these churches have dis-
covered that they have a responsibility
for social life within their nations and

45

for relations between nations.

“These peoples ‘of the earth are
striving for a unity which makes them
brothers and not mutual enemies of
each other. Men's deepest quest is for
a unity in the fundamental principles
of his own being in its relationship to
the Author of Life.”

In the field of politics and inter-
national relations, Dr. White affirmed:
“Rightly or wrongly, the systems of
compelling alliances and the principle
of balance of power were held partly
responsible for the World War I and
at the conclusion of that war, an
attempt was made to find a better
principle than balance of- power for
regulating the relationsships of nation
to nation. The League of Nations was
the idealistic reaction to a long, bloody
war. It was based on the assumption
that unity could be achieved by
voluntary agreement and by means
short of war....

“The League was a practical dem-
onstration that an international
organization with a large number of
important tasks could function success-
fully for more than a quarter of a
century, and it was in the blackest
hour of the war for the Western
powers that the United Nations
Declaration was signed in January
1942 at Washington....

“But disunity in the United Nations
led the nations of the western world
to believe they would have to take
direct action to prevent the further
loss of freedom. All of these con-
siderations brought about the con-
clusion of the North Atlantic Defense
Pact which was signed on April 4,
1949, by Britain, France, Belgium, the
Netherlands, Luxembourg, the United
States, Canada, Norway, Denmark,
Italy, Iceland and Portugal....

“The North Atlantic Defense Pact
reaffirms the belief of the signatory
powers in human rights, personal
freedom, the rule of law, and re-
cognizes the authority of the United
Nations." + END

Pleace League Revived
The German Catholic League for
Peace, originally established in 1919
and later banned by the National
Socialists, held its first meeting since
1933 in December in Munich,

INFORMATION BULLETIN
‘4

--- Page 49 ---
Excerpts from Official Instructions, Announcements

Military Security Board

Organization of the Military Security Board
approved on Dec. 16, 1949 by the U. S.,
U, K. and French Military Governors:

Part I — Terms of Reference

1. In accordance with the terms of the
London Agreement a Military Security Board
for the Western Zones of Germany will be
set up by Military Governors in order to
ensure the maintenance of disarmament and
demilitarization in the interests of security.

2. The Board's responsibilities will cover
the whole field of disarmament and demilitari-
zation, taking into consideration the laws
and directives which have been agreed
already on a quadripartite basis. In particula:
the Board will advise the Military Governors
on the maintenance and enforcement of disar-
mament and demilitarization restrictions. It
will carry out the appropriate inspections and
will recommend to the Military Governors
measures necessary to:

(a) prevent the revival of military or para-
military organizations and of the militaristic
spirit;

(b) ensure that there shall be no manufacture
or import of any arms, war materials or any
other materials or equipment which are or
may be prohibited;

(c) prevent the infringement by Germans of
restrictions in respect of certain industries;

(a) ensure that any military buildings, struct-
ures, laboratories, and all shipyards, or fac-
tories capable ‘of producing armaments
which be retained are used for peaceful
purposes only;

(e) ensure that scientific
directed to warlike ends;

(f) ensure that in connection with the con-
struction and operation of merchant shipping
and the operation of civil airlines, no war
potential is created.

research is not

3. In carrying out its task, the Board will:

(a) Study the existing laws and directives,
both quadripartite and zonal, and make
recommendations if they require additions
or amendments, and where advisable
produce uniformity throughout the three
zones;

(b) Recommend to the Military Governors any
laws or regulations to be enacted which may
be necessary for the completion of dis-
armament, or for the prohibition or limit-
ation of specified military, industrial,
scientific research or other activities;

(c) Ensure the implementation of the regu-
lations by inspection and ensure that the
statistics necessary for the Board are main-
tained by Germans, The reports of in-
spections will be presented to the Military
Governors, together with the observations
of the Board;

(d) Advise the Military Governors on _re-
visions, which may be necessary from time
to time, of the prohibitions of and limit-
ations on capacity or production imposed
upon German industry;

(e) Collect, centralize, and keep-up-to-date
full documentation on the elements which
might reconstitute a war potential in the
military, industrial, and scientific fields.

Part If — Constitution and Functioning

4, The Military Security Board will be made
up of the following elements:
(a) A Commission
(b) A Committee of Deputies
(c) A Secretariat
(d) Thre Divisions:

Military, Industrial, and Scientific Research
(e) Inspection Groups.

5, Security in the Ruhr

The Board will establish such machinery
and liaison for co-operation with the Inter-

national Authority for the Ruhr as may be
found necessary.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

6. The Commission

(a) The Commission will consist of three
Officers, of general or equivalent rank, or
their deputies, appointed by and represent-
ing the respective Military Governors.

(b) In principle, it will meet once a month,
or as necessary, for the ordinary sessions,
under the chairmanship of one of the
members in rotation, to examine the work
undertaken by the Board; to prepare and
present its recommendations to the Military
Governors; to decide on any special mis-
sions of inspection to be carried out in the
zones; to take all necessary measures to
facilitate the functioning of the Board and
all its implementing services.

{c) Each member of the Commission may be
assisted at the meetings by his Deputy, a
Chief, Secretary, or any other experts that
he may deem necessary, either from the
Board or from outside the Board.

(4) The Commission will hold extraordinary

meetings at the request of one of its
members.

(e) The majority rule will govern the decisions
of the Commission, provided that the
minority member may refer the question to
the Military Governors, this to have a
suspensory effect until the decision has been
rendered.

7. Committee of Deputies

The Deputies to the Commission will form
a permanent Committee at the headquarters
of the Board in order to direct its business.
In particular, they will co-ordinate the work
of the Divisions and provide a chairman (of
the nationality of the chairman of the Com-
mission for the month) at joint meetings of
two or more Divisions.

8. Secretariat
(a) The Secretariat will be composed of three

Chief Secretaries, one for each national
element.

The Duty Sceretaryship will be rotated
among the Chief Secretaries so that the

nationality of the Duty Secretary will cor-
respond to that of the chairman of the
Commission. A permanent integrated staff
of secretaries, clerks, interpreters and
other personnel will be provided as ne-
cessary, each power contributing a reason-
ably proportionate ‘share of the personnel
required,

(b) The Secretariat will be in charge of the
administrative functioning of the Board,
and will be responsible for ensuring liaison
between the elements of the Board and
outside agencies, for administrative ar-
Tangements for all meetings; for the per-
formance of secretarial functions at all
meetings of any element of the Board; for
the drawing up of minutes and reports;
for the handling of correspondence; for
arranging for and notifying the proper
authorities of scheduled inspections; for
distributing documents and keeping of
archives.

(c) The Secretariat will have a tripartite
integrated information section which will
be responsible for the centralization and
keeping up-to-date of the information
collected by the Board.

9. Divisions

(a) There will be three Divisions;

Military, Industrial. and Scientific Research.
Within ‘each Division, each power (U.S.,
U.K., and French) will establish and main-
tain its national element. These Divisions
will operate on a coordinated basis as in-
dicated in the organizational chart attached.
While the internal organization of the
national elements need not be identical,
they should in general parallel each other
in their functions and capabilities.

(b) Any specialist sections or working parties
deemed necessary for the study of parti-
cular problems may be established within
the Divisions, Such sections or parties may
be integrated, all three Powers supplying

46

members without obligation to maintain
equality either in qualifications or numbers.
(c) Within the scope of the Terms of Refer-
ence, each Divison, or any national ele-
ment thereof, will be responsible, each in
its own sphere or as specified by the Com-
mission for the preparation of any ne-
cessary regulating measures and recom-
mendations for the implementation and
control thereof, which are to be submitted
to the Commission. Recommendations of
national elements shall be tripartitely con-
sidered and_resolved, insofar as is possible,
within the Divisions before being presented
to the Commission.

(d) Divisional meetings will take place at the
headquarters of the Board. Chairmanship
will be rotated among the chiefs of the
national elements thereof, so that the
nationality of the Division chairmen will
correspond to that of the Chairman of the
Commission. The chiefs of the national
elements may be assisted by any members
of their elements whom they deem neces-
sary, or by experts temporarily attached
for duty to that element or from outside.

(e) Resolution of matters of joint interest to
two or more Divisions shall normally be
accomplished through the medium of in-
formal lateral coordination; however, joint
divisional meetings may be arranged by the
Committee of Deputies upon the request of
any national element.

(f) During the period when existing organi-
zations responsible for the control of in-
dustry and of scientific research are main-
tained in their present form, certain
functions of the Board may, with the
agreement of each Military Governor, be
performed by personnel regularly assigned
to full-time duty with the Board, or temp-
orarily attached for such duty. ' As these
organizations of each representative Mili-
tary Government, whose work is associated
with that of the Board, phase out, the proper
divisions of he Board ‘will be expanded to
assume the necessary controls to prevent
the resurgence of German military, in-
dustrial, or scientific war potential.

10, Inspection Groups
(a) The Divisions will organize, instruct, and
dispatch inspectors an@/or integrated  tri-
Partite inspection groups formed from
personnel assigned or attached to the Board
as often as necessary in order to verify
in the three zones the conditions of exe-
cution of the measures ordered by the
Military Governors. The Commission may

order any special inspections it deems
necessary.
(b) Administrative arrangements for these

inspections will be made by the Secretariat.

(c) Inspection groups shall have free access
at any time to inspect without prior notice
for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2
hereof, any place, installation, or activity,
except that the local Military Government
shall be given reasonable advance notice
of such intended visits.

11, The creation of the Board implies that
disarmament and demilitarization are matters
of tripartite responsibility. Until the system
of control at Land levels is changed, and as
long as unilateral control contiunes in the

Land, the Regional Commissioner (or his
equivalent) in each Land will act as the
agent of the Military Governors for dis-
armament and demilitarizattion, For this

purpose he will repont to the Military Gov-
ernors throguh the Board and will receive
his instructions through the same channel.
He will provide such information as may be
requested and will be responsible for the
continuous observation of the execution of
prescibed security measures, He will give
full facilities for visits by the
groups referred to in paragraph 10 above. If
he is succeeded by a Tripartite Control Com-
mission, his function will be transferred to
that commission, When and if Military Gov-
ernment is no longer adequately represented
at Land level, the Board will establish such

MAY 17, 1949

inspection .

--- Page 50 ---
jpartite agencies as it deems necessary to
gnsure control in the Lands.

12, Nomination of Members of the Board

The members of the Board and experts
will be appointed by the respective Military
Governors, and accredited to the Board by
the corresponding member of the Commission.

13, Rules of Procedure

The Committee of Deputies will establish
routine and procedure for the Board.

Barter and Sales Regulations

Under the new EUCOM directive, Circular 21,
US car owners in the European Command may
sell their vehicles to anyone except German
nationals, displaced persons within the boun-
daries of Germany, ron-German nationals
whose permanent residence is within Germany,
or to corporations, associations, partmerships
and government agencies existing under Ger-
man public or private law.

Heretofore, an American in the European
Command could sell his automobile only to
another American. Now he may sell his car
to Allied or neutral persons, or dispose of it
in another country, provided he compiies with
all pertinent controls in that country, and
obtains clearance from the EUCOM registrar
pf vehicles. However, the seller may not bring
into the US area of control in Germany more
than $50 in foreign currency at the legal rate
of exchange.

The new circular prohibits EUCOM personnel
from importing into Germany or exporting
from it, any European currency, other thar
German, in excess of an amount equivalent to
$50 at the legal rate of exchange.

A recent EUCOM regulation regarding the
importation of Deutsche marks is ccntinued
under the new ciucular. The ruling prohibits
the importation into the US area of control in
Germany of more than 40 Deutsche marks pet
person, if the DMs were acquired outside of
the three western occupation zones of Ger-
many.

The sale or barter in Germany of tangible
personal property to German nationals or
residents of Germany continues to be pro-
hibited by Circular 21. Also prohibited is the
purchase from a German national or resident
of Germany of any rationed or controlled
items, such as certain articles of food, clothing
tools, or electrical appliances, as well as the
items restricted for sale by special permit for
professional use.

Among the transactions prohibited under
Circular 21 are the following:

1. The purchase, sale, transfer or other
acquisition or disposition of real property
(such as real estate or buildings) or any
interest in the real property, from oz to Ger-
man nationals or residents of Germany. This
regulation applies also to property in Ger-
many owned by Germans outside of Germany.

2, The purchase, sale, transfer, or other
acquisition or disposition of intangible prop-
erty and foreign exchange assets in Germany
from or to German nationals or residents of
Germany. This intangible property includes
currency other than German, checks, drafts,
hills of exchange, and other instruments
drawn on, or issued by persons outside of
Sermany. It also includes securities and other
evidence of ownership o7 indebtedness issued
by persons outside of Germany, or by persons
in Germany, or expressed in the currency of
other countries.

_3 Purchase, sale, or transfer of gold and
silver coins; gold, silver and platinum bullion,
or alloys of those metals in bullion form.

, 4 The importation of alcoholic beverages

into the US area of control in Germany

except by the US officers’ and noncommis-

sioned officers’ club, EUCOM.

foo ihe use of military payment certificates

ior Payments or any other purchases except

fo guthorized personnel, and except as an

icial medium of exchange within authorized

agencies.

pte acquisition of MPC’s from persons or

eoenelaas ‘in or outside the US area of
in Germany, other than authorized

Personnel or agencies.

a The acquisition, use or disposal of British
rench occupation currencies, unless

ee] by the respective occupation author-

MAY 17, 1949

8. The possession of US currency in
Germany after the close of the second
business day after coming into possession of
it, or after arriving in the US area of control.
Exceptions may be made at ports of exit for
those leaving the occupation zone. US green-
backs and other US money may be exchanged
for occupation scrip at any EUCOM finance
disbursing office.

These regulations are similar to cnes pre-

viously in effect in the European Command. ,

Persons subject to provisions of Circular 21
shall noi engage in any profession, trade, or
business in the US area of control as director.
manager, officer, consultant or employee unless
permission is granted in writing by EUCOM
Headquarters or OMGUS

Circular 21 does not exempt persons under
the jurisdiction of EUCOM Headquarters from
complying with applicable laws, ordinances
and regulations of national governments, local
governments or occupation authorities—From
EUCOM Headquarters announcement.

Change in Designation

It is desired that the appropriation ‘‘GARIOA"
shown under Non-Occupation Costs on allet-
ment advices assued 22 March 1949 for the
first quarter Fiscal Year 1950 dated 1 April
1949 be changed to “RACAOA" (Relief Assis-
tance and Certain Activities in Occupied
Areas).—from EUCOM letter AG 120 BUD
AGO, March 29.

Instructions concerning Reporting
Procedure for Supervision of Restitu-
tion Program under MG Law No. 59

1, The Property Control and External Assets
Branch of the Property Division, OMGUS, is
assigned the responsibility for supervision and
control over the administrative aspects of all
operations, at all functional levels, through
which MG Law No.59 is implemented.

2. In order to properly discharge this func-
tion it is considered essential that a reporting
procedure be established which will insure the
eventual accumulation of a complete record or
case history of the processing of each petition
(or case under a petition) that is filed with
the Central Filing Agency and forwared, as
the law requires, to the restitution agencies.

3. Such a complete record or case history as
is contemplated will be compiled through the
entry on individual “action record” cards, to
be maintained by the Central Filing Agency,
of the date on which each step or action is
taken wich respect to each petition or case by
all agencies or courts concerned with the law.

4, It is further contemplated that information
as to the date upon which each action is
taken with respect to each petition or case,
shall be supplied by each such agency or court
within one week after each action in the
processing is taken by them. For the purpose
of supplying this information, an “action
report” form will be employed. After the
serial or case number and name of the
claimant have been entered upon the “action
report’ form, entries indicating the action
being repotted will be made on the basis of
numbers assigned to each step or action, i. e.
the number related to the action being
reported shall be entered by the agencies or
courts upon the “action report’? form and
forwarded to the Central Filing Agency with a
copy to the appropriate state central office.

5. As these action numbers are received at
the Central Filing Agency they will be
entered upon the “‘action record’ card to
which they relate. Thus, as case moves
through the various agencies or courts, the
current status can be readily determined at
any juncture by translating the reported num-
bers into the action taken. The actions and
the numbers representing them will be printed
on separate “key cards’ which will be made
available.

6. The days of the month and the months
of the year, printed at the top of the “action
record’’ cards are for use in the operation of
a visible tickler tab system, designed to
indicate whether anticipated ‘actions which
should have been taken within specific int -r-
vals, subsequent to prior actions, have
actually occurred.

47

7. On the reverse side of the ‘‘action record’
card certain important supplemental inform-
mation is called for to be prepared and pre-
sented as special reports by restitution
authorities and forwaded to the Central
Filing Agency for the completion of petition
or case records, No special form need be used
for preparation of these reports. They may be
presented as letters in which the answers to
the various questions asked should be type-
written and forwarded within a week after
the action being reported occurs. The infor-
mation when received by the Central Filing
Agency will be entered on the “‘action record’
card, end will be filed in the case folder with
the Central Filing Agency copy of the petition.

8. it will also be noted that space for
“remaiks'’ is reserved on the “action record’’
cards. This space will be used by the Central
Filing Agency for the purpose of entering
pertinent information, not specifically called
for as supplied by agencies or courts, relating
to any of the actions recorded on the face
of the cards.

9. In addition to the above described
“action record" card system to be maintained
by the Central Filing Agency, it is necessary
to adopt two status report forms which can
be used for reporting to OMGUS and the state
property control chief the total of the various
actions taken by the agencies and courts
during a given period. Schedule A will be
used foy statistical analysis relating to the
current monthly reporting period whereas
Schedule B will be used for submitting cumu-
lative totals for a reporting period.

10. It is contemplated that, as all the data
required for the execution of these forms will
have been accumulated by the state central
office with the receipt of “action reports”,
the state central office will be assigned the
responsibility for checking, and the prepar-
ation of summaries by the agencies, courts
and Board of Review.

11, The foregoing describes in a general
manner the adopted forms and their use. The
state property control chiefs are charged
with the responsibility of acquainting the state
central office and the restitution agencies in
their state with the forms and operations
described herein.

12, Compliance with these reporting require-
ments by the courts is the responsibility of
Military Government Legal Division.

13. Recurring Reports —LCO

Schedule A (MG/PD/iib F) and Schedule B
(MG/PD/11c/F)

Each state central office will submit to
Property Control and External Assets Branch,
Property Division, OMGUS, through the state
property control chief at ‘monthly intervals.
Schedules A and B (Progress Status Reports)
for all restitution agencies and courts in the
state, and for action of the Board of Review,
as the same pertain to each state. The reports
of all restitution agencies and courts, the
Board of Review and the state central offices
will be prepared as of the close of the 25th
day of each month, and the progress status as
of such time will be used for the preparation
of these reports. Five (5) copies of these
reports will be submitted.

Two (2) copies — State Military Govern-
ment: Property Controt
and Legal Divisions.

Three (3) copies — Property Control and
External Assets Branch,
OMGUS.

Action Report Forms (Annex B—MG/PD/11a/F)
will be prepared in duplicate on a continuous
basis by restitution agencies, courts and the
Board of Review after each action taken by
them as listed in the ‘key card’. Within one
week after completion of any such action, one
copy is to be mailed directly to the Central
Filing Agency and the second copy is to be
mailed to the state central office. Copies
intended for the Central Filing Agency may
be accumulated and mailed together in the
same envelope provided mailing-of any action
report is not delayed beyond the one week
requirement.

14, Method of Transmission.

State property control chiefs will be re-
sponsible for timely receipt of Schedule A and

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Signal Corps Expendable Supplies, Table of
Allowances No. 11—101 (44—76), Department
of the Army, 17. Feb, 1949. Sec, I—General
instructions. Sec II—Headquarters and Heall-
quarters Battery, Antiaircraft Artillery Auto-
matic Weapons Bn, Self-Propelled (T/O&E 44—76,
17 Nov. 44). Sec Ill—Headquarters and Head-
quarters Battery, Antiaircraft Artillery Auto-
matic Weapons Bn, Self Propelled (T/O&E
44—76N, 26 April 1948).

Animals for Administrative Overhead, Table
of Allowances No. 20—3, Department of the
Army, 10 March 1949.

Monthly OMG Report, No. 49/3, OMG Land
Bremen, 31 March 1949.

Disposition of Recovered Radiosonde Appa-
ratus Rescission: Sec III, Supply Bulletin 8,
Hq BMP, Supply Bulletin No. 27, Hq EUCOM,
13 April 1949.

National Service Life Insurance, AG 019
FIN-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 14 April 1949.

Weekly Newspaper Analysis, No. 166, ISD
OMGUS, 14 April 1949.

New Regular Army Enlistment and Reenlist-
ment Instructions, AG 340 AGP-AGO, Hq
EUCOM, 15 April 1949.

‘Automotive Maintenance, ADJ 400 SDS, Ha
BMP 15 April 1949.

‘Wuerzburg Military Post, Table of Allow-
ances No. 1243-B, Hq EUCOM, 18 April 1949.

Die Neue Zeitung (in German), Vol. 5 No. 45
ISD OMGUS, 16 April 1949.

Die Neue Zeitung (in German), Vol. 5,
No. 46, ISD OMGUS, 19 April 1949.

EUCOM Small Arms Competition, 1949,
AG 353 GOT-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 20 April 1949.

Imports into Germany by Accredited Chari
table Organizations, AG 091.31 (CO), OMGUS,
20 April 1949.

British Zone Review, Vol. 2, No. 22, ISD
CCG (BE), 20 April 1949.

Die Neue Zeitung (in German), Vol. 5,
No. 47, ISD OMGUS, 21 April 1949.

Regulation No. 1 MG Law No. 75, “Regu-
lation Concerning Certain Liabilities _ of
Colliery Undertakings", AG 010 (EA), OMGUS,
22 April 1949.

EUCOM Accident Prevention Program (March
No-Accident Campaign), AG 729.3 PMG-AGO,
Ha EUCOM, 22 April 1949.

1949 EUCOM Track and Field Champion.
ships, AG 353.8 SSP-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
22 April 1949.

‘Weekly Newspaper Analysis, No. 167, ISD
OMGUS, 22 April 1949.

Opinions on Fusion in Wuerttemberg and
Baden, Survey Report No. 165, ISD OMGUS,
22 April 1949, .

German Economic Press Review, No. 176,
OEA CCG (BE), 22 April 1949.

Economic Press Digest, No. 45, OMGUS PIO
(Frankfurt), 22 April 1949.

Establishment of a Zonal German Property
Control and Internal Restitution Coordinating
Agency, AG 334 (PD), OMGUS, 23 April 1949.

General Licenses No. 1 and No. 2 Information
Control Regulation No. 3 Amended, AG 680.44
(CO), OMGUS, 23 April 1949.

Die Neue Zeitung (in German), Vol. 5,
No. 48, ISD OMGUS, 23 April 1949.

Public Attitudes toward Postwar German
Police—I. General Appraisals, Survey Report
No. 166, ISD OMGUS, 25 April 1949.

Public Attitudes toward Postwar German
Police—II. Awareness of Civil Rights versus

Copies of Instructions listed in

the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to
the originating headquarters.

Police Powers, Survey Report No. 167, ISD
OMGUS, 25 April 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 114, ISD
OMGUS, 26 April 1949.

German Economic Press Review, No. 177,
OEA CCG (BE), 26 April 1949.

Jurisdiction of German Courts (Strafbefehl!
Procedure), AG 015 (LD), OMGUS, 27 April
1949. |

Die Neue Zeitung (in German),
No. 49, ISD OMGUS, 26 April 1949.

Purchase of Agricultural Fertilizers by Us|
and Allied Personnel in the US Zone, A
091.31 (EA), OMGUS, 27 April 1949.

Fees Charged Displaced Persons for German
Fishing Licenses, AG 680.421 (CA), OMGUS,!
27 April 1949.

Customs Control MG Law No. 17, AG 410.2
(AG), OMGUS, 27 April 1949.

Heute (in German), No. 83, ISD OMGUS,
27 April 1949.

West Berlin's Reaction to a Single Currency,
Survey Report No. 168, ISD OMGUS, 27 April
1949.

‘Assistance of the Civil Administration Divi-
sion in Promoting Civil Liberties, AG 322 (CA),,
OMGUS, 28 April 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 115, ISD
OMGUS, 28 April 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 116, ISD
OMGUS, 30 April 1949.

Military Government Regulations, Titles and
Changes, AG 010.6 (CO), OMGUS, 1 May 1949.

The Baltic States, Troop I& Bulletin, Vol. 4,
No. 18, TI&E Div, EUCOM, 1 May 1949.

‘Amendment No. 1 to MG Ordinance No. 32,
Code of Criminal Procedure for United States
MG Courts for Germany, AG 010.6 (LD),
OMGUS, 2 May 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 117, ISD
OMGUS, 3 May 1949.

Information Bulletin, No. 160, CO OMGUS,
3 May 1949.

Vol. 5,

Continued from page 41

B Reports through MG communication channels.
Telephonic report will be made to the Accounts
and Audits Section, Property Control and
External Assets Branch, Property Division,
OMGUS, not later than the third of the month
following the month being reported. Such
telephonic report will be confirmed by three
copies of written reports, transmitted to the
same office as soon as practicable, and so as
to reach said office not later than the tenth
of the month when due.

15. Control by State
Recurring Reports.

Each state central office will establish and
maintain adequate measures to assure that all
recurring reports required from restitution
agencies and courts are submitted on or
before the due dates prescribed in this directive.

16. Reports by Board of Review.

The Board of Review will be responsible
for transmittal of Progress Status Reports
(Schedules A and B) and Action Report Forms
as prescribed herein to the state central
offices and to the Central Filing Agency. —
From text attached to OMGUS letter AG 010.6
(PD), March 23.

Central Office of

Release of Absentee Owned Property

It is planned to transfer on May 15 to the
custody of curators in absentia appointed by
the German courts, the larger properties taken
into custody solely for reason of absentee
ownership. However, before this date, strong
efforts are being made to release as many
properties as possible, in order not to over-
burden the German court system.

Therefore, the Property Control Offices are
hereby authorized to order the release from
custody of all property with a value of less
than DM 10,000, taken into control solely for
reason of absentee ownership, provided that
one of the following is applicable:

a. The recipient of the property was the
administrator of the property at the time
property control action was taken, and is
able to show some type of power of attorney
or other document which appointed him to
this position and evidence is available indicat-
ing continued confidence of owner, or

b. The recipient of the property is a close
relative who managed the property at the time
property control action was taken and corre-
spondence is available from the owner
indicating the owner's continued confidence
in his ability to manage the property.

The Property Control Offices shall require
the recipient to sign, in accordance with MG
Regulation 17-242c, a written certificate in-
cluding the restriction contained in paragraph
6 of the release and receipt form (Annex to
letter, Hq OMGUS, AG 386 [PD], “Amendment
to Decontrol Release Form,” June 3, 1948)
quoted as follows:

“It is understood by me, and I agree to
notify my principal to this effect, that even
though custody of the property above described
has been released by the Property Control and
External Assets Branch, it shall remain subject
to the provisions of Military Government Law
52 and to all other applicable laws, ordinances,
directives, orders, or regulations of Military
Government."

Owners will be notified of the action to be
taken in regard to their property in the event
they fail to “decontrol" their property by
May 15.

The Property Control Offices shall furnish
the Property Control and External Assets
Branch, Property Division, OMGUS, with a
written report on the completion of this
program on or before May 31.—From OMGUS
letter AG 386.7 (PD), April 7.

Commerce Insurance

companies which are
Military Government

insurance
under

German
duly licensed

Law No. 53 have now been authorized to
insure, in any currency, all risks connected
with West German exports and imports. This
authorization is contained in Military
Government Law No. 16 and is also applic-
able to the western sectors of Berlin, The
law became effective on 5 April.

The purpose of this law is to facilitate
export trade and to increase the amount of
foreign exchange produced therefrom, for
the use of the German economy.

By the terms of MG Law No. 16, German
insurance companies are authorized to insure
all transport risks, as well as ‘whatever
additional risks are connected with German
export-import trade. For these purposes,
German insurance companies may make su
agency artrangements as may be necessary
with persons domiciled outside of the western
zones or western sectors of Berlin.—From
OMGUS announcement.

Tobacco Control

Occupation personnel are prohibited from
importing or exporting tobacco products into
or out of Germany, except for small quanti-
ties for personal use, according to an amend-
ment to EUCOM Circular 21. The circular,
published Feb. 2 to cover transactions pro-
hibited for occupation personnel, did not
specifically incorporate previous restrictions
on the import and export of tobacco. !

Personnel entering or leaving Germany are
authorized to carry with them ng more than
two cartons of cigarettes per person, oF
cigars, or one pound of smoking tobacco.

The restrictions on the import or export of
tobacco products applies to all members ©!
the US Armed Forces, to civilian US citizens
and nationals of Allied and neutrai countries
who are accompanying or serving with the
US occupation forces in EUCOM, and to de-
pendents.—From EUCOM announcement.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF