--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE OF US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

NO. 165

THIS Is ;
ts Cons SUE:

erence

JULY 12, 1949

Uni Community Councils Navy’s Role
mon Federation Radio in US Zone Arts

P ofarm

--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

BUDDING JOURNALISTS—Twenty
young Germans, selected from 1,700
applicants, have started on-the-job
training in the editorial office of the
Abendzeitung, Munich daily news-
paper. One of their tests was to draw
a news assignment by lot. The photo-
graph shows their perplexity and
amusement over the assignments they
must finish within three hours. An
article describing the Abendzeitung's
School of Journalism begins on
page 11. (Fosch photo)

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 165 July 12, 1949

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NFORMATION
BULLETIN

F ‘ Sie Radio in US Zone. . . : 3
for dissemination of authoritative in- Article by Ruby A. Parson
f ti il i th licies,
een A ponies eh gal Community Councils , 7
vegulations, instructions, operations Article by Dr. Ralph E. Berry
and activities of Military Government a
d affiliated izati i Trade Union Federation 4 9
iat. nc ORC P AEN Article by Albert H. Berman
Editorial Offices
Directors Building, Room 1050 School of Journalism . . iB
OMGUS °Headquaters; Berlin Article by Ernest Langendorf —
Tel.: 42227, 42252, 42923 Visual Arts " i 15
Editor H. Warner Waid Article by William c Constable
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes Navy's Role... ‘| 17
Editorial Writer Christian J, Goll Article by Lt. Comar. 1 Hy: ‘Meads
Mailing address: Paris Conference 19
Information Bulletin Statement by Dean Acheson’
Control Office, OMGUS Germany and the Foreign Ministers . 20
Berlin, Germany Digest of OMGUS Broadcast
APO 742, US
sees High Commission Charter 21
Correspondence in the United States Text of Tripartite Document
concerning distributi hhould bi
assed t : satay i a Dex Betorn 4 a
5 si Excerpt from Military ‘Governor's Report
Occupied Areas Reports Distribution
Section, Personnel Notes 27
Operations Branch. Occupation Log 28
Office of The Adjutant General, US Press Comments 30
Department of the Army,
Washington 25, D.C. Official Notices 31
Printing and distributing of the Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents 32

magazine is handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)
CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH
BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

Cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

--- Page 5 ---
| High Schools Resistent to Democracy |

HERE IS almost no evidence of

democracy in German academic
high schools,” stated Dr. Arno Jewett,
professor of education at the Uni-
versity of Texas, after a three-month
survey in the US Zone as a visiting
expert of the Education and Cultural
Relations Division, OMGUS.

These secondary schools are tra-
ditionally restricted to academic and
cultura] subjects. Only a small percent-
age of the population attends these
institutions which have been in the

past the only academic route to
universities.
“Educational reconstruction is a

long term task,” Dr. Jewett said. “Real
progress has been made in the reorient-
ation of German education but
democratization of schools will require
years of effort. This is particularly
true in the academic secondary
school where years of tradition sup-
port the present system.”

“Fear of teachers and examinations
is the chief motivation for learning in
these German schools,” Dr, Jewett

said, “Administrative authoritarian-
ism” enforced by old-line teachers
discourages student initiative and

enterprise, the American expert said.

Dr. Jewett reported that German
teachers generally subscribe to the
theory of formal discipline. Many
teachers feel that difficult subject
matter has inherent value in training
the mind. He said that instruction in
German schools is almost entirely of
the “lecture-memory drill type.”

He criticized German schools for
failing to relate curriculum to prob-
lems of today’s community. He said
more than half the academic secondary
school program is devoted to the study
of language, while social studies are
virtually nonexistent,

MONG THE inadequacies noted by
the visiting expert were lack of
extra-curricular programs, very little
free selection of courses, no guidance
program for students, little use of
outside reading materials and no
standardized tests.

Strong points in German schools are
the art and music programs, Dr.
Jewett said. He was particularly im-
pressed by the vocal and choral music
activities in German high schools.
German schools are doing “outstand-
ing work” in these cultural fields,
Dr, Jewett reported.

The American educator believes
there is over-centralization of school

INFORMATION BULLETIN

control in the state education minis-
tries. He favors greater local control
over school policies and programs.
He said that “administrative author-
itarianism" stems in part from the
highly centralized school structure.

N A REPORT to the education

branch of US Military Government,
the Texas educator gave five recom-
mendations for improvement of Ger-
man secondary schools:

Intensification of the teacher
exchange program with particular
emphasis on younger teachers; de-
velopment of an international “pen
pal system to enable German students
to contact foreign contemporaries by
mail; demonstration and laboratory
schools to train German teachers in
new methods and ideas; extension of
the educational film program and
enlarging of German school libraries.

Ulm Youth Conference

Designed to foster international
understanding among the youth of
Ulm, Wuerttemberg-Baden, and of
other countries, a three-day ‘“‘Inter-
national Youth Congress" was held
recently under the joint sponsorship
of the Youth Office of Ulm, the GYA
“Haus der Jugend" and the US In-
formation Center.

The three day program, attended
by students of various nationalities
enrolled at the universities of Zurich,
Heidelberg and Tuebingen and Ger-
man students from Ulm, included
open forum discussions, a visit to
Stuttgart where the participants were
official guests of the city and an
official sightseeing tour of Ulm.

Visitors who took part in the Ulm
conference included representatives
of Canada, France, Belgium, Egypt,
Sweden, Yugoslavia and the United
States. The German participants in-
cluded representatives of seven youth
organizations.

Bank Property under Control

Properties of the Bank der Deut-
schen Arbeit (Bank of the German
Labor Front, a Nazi agency) are being
retained under MG property control
pending the establishment of a Ger-
man labor bank. As soon as a bank
is established, these properties will be
transferred to it as liquidating agent.

2

90 Germans to Study
At American Universities

LANS FOR a full year’s course

at American universities for
90 Germans, men and women less
than 30 years of age, who have shown
an interest in learning the principles
of democracy, were announced by
the Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS.

Applications for participation in
the year's study course will be re-
ceived by local Military Government
officies in the US Zone, and the suc-
cessful applicants will leave for the
United States in September.

The schools participating in the
study program are the University of
Syracuse, the University of Michigan,
the University of Chicago, Harvard
University, Bryn Mawr University,
and Duke University.

Dr. Edward H. Litchfield, director of
CAD, said:

“This program is designed to fur-
‘ther .the interests of young idemo-
cratic Germans: in the processes of
democracy, and the operation of gov-
ernment in the political sub-divisions.
of the United States, It is desirable
that those who participate in this
cours? of study bring back to Ger-
many constructive ideas on the oper-'
ation of government in a democracy’
The Germans, men and women whd
are chosen, must have shown an in+
terest in community activities a
must be the material from whic
develop leaders of democratic com#
munities."

T iS INTENDED that most of the

participants will not be students
currently enrolled in German univer-
sities, but persons who have played,
or who have demonstrated that they
will play, a role in public life. It is
desirable, CAD officials said, that
applicants should have spent one to
two years at a university or recog:
nized commercial or trade - union
school. Social science background is
of particular value. ,

The applicants are required to have,
a knowledge of English in order t
no time be spent learning the lam
guage. In addition to courses in socia
science, there will be special sem!
nars conducted by government le@
ders. During the summer of 1950, th
participants will have an opportunity}
to travel in the United States and:
visit local and state government offi~
cials, trade-union officials, newspaper
offices and citizens’ groups.

JULY 12, 194

--- Page 6 ---
Radio Munich's studio building (left) as the Americans found it in 1945 and (right) as the Americans returned it to

the Germans early this year.

Radio in US Zone

— — Stations Achieving Independence

ITH THE turnover of Radio Stutt-

gart to German management on
June 30, one of the major tasks of
the occupation in the information
field went into its final phase, Inde-
pendent community radio will have
been established by law in every
state of the US Zone, with German
management in control, American
radio officers will continue liaison
with the stations only as consultants
and observers to watch the progress
of free, democratic radio in the new
Germany,

Some of these Americans are the
Same men who came into Germany
with the army and began the work
of rebuilding German radio while
battles were still being fought. It was
imperative then to get radio going
as a medium through which occupa-
tion officials could reach the German
People with instruction and informa-
tion, There was no time for leisurely
Surveys, planning and construction.

The radio teams who came in with
the US Army moved first to locate
the: former German stations and
decide what could be done with them.
Some of them they found without
difficulty in various stages of damage
from total destruction to “extensive
but superficial damage.”

JULY 12, 1949

Article

by Ruby A. Parson
Deputy Chief, Radio Branch
Information Services Division, OMGUS

HE STUDIO building of Radio
Munich, for instance, was bombed
out, without windows and roof and
with all the delicate studio equipment
shattered. The transmitter, however,
was found some 15 miles out of town,
virtually undamaged, The US radio
men wheeled up a portable studio
van, built for use by the Psycholo-
gical Warfare Division, SHEAF, got
the lines to the transmitter hooked
up and in two days Radio Munich
was on the air.
There was somewhat similar luck
at Stuttgart where the transmitter,
also located out of the city, was found

with “extensive but superficial
damage” and was quickly patched
and restored to use. Once again,

however, the studios were gone. They
had been stripped first by the Germans
as they got out and then taken over as
a bivouac by Moroccan occupation
troops. Nothing but the walls was lett.

So another army studio van was
brought up for use and ‘45 old timers
at Radio Stuttgart like to tell now
how at one time they had developed
the technique of jackknifing perform-

3

(photos by Hans Schoerer)

ers into this cell-like studio until
they managed a broadcast with 16
participants in the 6-by-8-foot box,
That, they agreed, was the full capac-
ity. Today Radio Stuttgart has
modern roomy studios not only at
Stuttgart but at Heidelberg as well.

ADIO FOR Frankfurt proved the

knottiest problem. For a time,
the former studios couldn't be found
at all, After several months they
were discovered buried under the
tuins of what had been the office
building of the radio station. Today
that studio building has been restored
and is in full use, although at first,
studios were improvised in a house
in Bad Nauheim.

The transmitter in the meantime
had been located but it lay in jagged
ruins. No amount of improvising with
string, wire and scrounged equipment
would put that together again, So
this time a mobile transmitter
was moved in—a United States one
kilowatt transmitter built on six vans,
This was later supplemented with a
powerful sender which had been
installed in a train for projected use
by the German army. The latter is
still in use at Radio Frankfurt and is
emitting 60 kilowatts, 18 hours a day.

So the three big stations in the US
Zone grew up out of war ruins. Today

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
they are modern, smoothly operating
installations, each with more broad-
cast power than any individual trans-
mitter in the United States, A smaller
station also was set up under US
auspices to service the state of Bre-
men. And at the same time, RIAS—
Radio in American Sector, Berlin*

* See “RIAS" in Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 146, Oct. 19, 1948.

furnished by the US Army.

Radio Stuttgart began postwar broadcasts in May 1945 from a mobile studio

was being developed from its modest
Drahtfunk (wire service) beginning
into the powerful multiple trans-
mitter station which is now the only
remaining MG station and the only
United States outlet in “iron curtain”
country.

HESE ARE the foreshortened facts
of the physical reconstruction of
radio in the US Zone of Germany. The

ie a

(photos by Adolf Lazi)

Fred G. Taylor (second row, left) is the only member of this original staff of
US officers and civilians of June 1945 still with Radio Stuttgart. In the
photograph are: (front row, left to right) Oliver W. Nicoll, Felix D. Bon-
vouloir, John Boxer, Robert C. DeVilbiss, E. Rawson Goodwin, Hugh G. Elbot,
Jacob Hieble, William Burke Miller; (second row) Fred G, Taylor, Harold
O. Wright, Robert F. Franklin, Fred Teschner, Francis J. Biltz.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

4

full story, which could fill a book and
probably will one day, is a saga of
scrounging, adapting, improvising and
getting on with a big job. It has been
a new kind of American pioneering,
with German help.

In this hurly-burly of repair and
construction, the major task of radio
—the reorientation of a demoralized
people—went forward, Originally
all stations were manned with Ger- —
man-speaking Americans, but very
early in the occupation began the
task of training German newscasters
and announcers. (No one worried
about entertainment in those days.)
The problem was where to find Ger-
mans with some radio experience, but
politically unobjectionable,

There was no desire to go back
into business with the Goebbels clan
but obviously unless a radio man
belonged to that persuasion he hadn't
been getting any experience in radio
in Germany in the last dozen years,
Many came, protested purity and
were hired. Almost as many, as
quickly as their Fragebogen (political
questionnaires) were received, were —
fired again. For a time it was 1007
percent turnover with the American
radio team scrambling to gain a little
ground—and staff. |

VENTUALLY the new German”
news and commentators’ staffs”
were built up largely of men and
women without previous experience’
in these fields, Even so they have
been trained by experienced Ameri-
can news and radio men serving with
military government and are now
stout champions of objective news
presentation, of freedom of the aif
for all responsible opinions, of on=
the-spot broadcasting of community
activities and of independent radio)
stations,
These men and women are perhaps”
the most important product of four
years of occupation in radio, They
must constitute the nucleus of future
free radio, taking the place of tradi-”
tion, professional books and college
courses in educating the next crop of
radio workers in the democratic con=
cept of free information. '
An attempt has been made to write
the free, independent character of
these stations into law. With the
encouragement of American Military
Government, each state has adopte
a radio law which sets up a publi
radio council to be responsible for
broadcasting. The laws all aim t
keep the council free from domina-
tion by government or any speci

JULY 12, 19

--- Page 8 ---
Radio Bremen sends its microphone to many community events as (left) open-forum meeting, (center) delivery of
2,000,000th CARE package in Germany, (right) athletic contest.

interest and to provide full represen-
tation of all the significant elements
of community life—politics, culture,
religion, agriculture, industry, labor
and special youths’ and women's
groups,

Broadcasting codes stipulate the obli-
gation to present news objectively
and to afford equable airtime for
divergent views on public matters.
With reservations only to protect the
security of occupying powers and to
prevent advocacy of militant nation-
alism or totalitarianism, commen-
tators are assured the right to air
their views. Thus a legal skeleton for
free radio has been provided. Wheth-
er or not it takes on flesh and blood
depends, of course, on how much
value is placed on freedom of expres-
sion by the Germans themselves and
how vigilant minorities will be to
protect their legally granted rights.

HE “COMMUNITY” character of

radio has likewise been given a
legal basis in the laws enacted in the
US Zone. Since the first days of the
Occupation, it has been the goal of
American Military Government, to see
established a decentralized broad-
casting system which would be dif-
ficult for a central regime to seize,
as the Nazis did, for a one-voiced
Propaganda instrument.

Ideally, from an American point of
view, there should be numerous, in-
dependently-owned stations, But up to
now this has not been possible in
Postwar Germany, In addition to the
difficulty of securing equipment and
the expense of operating individual
Stations, the basic limiting factor has
been and will continue to be shortage
of frequencies, Establishment of state

JULY 12, 1949

stations consumed all frequencies
available and there is furthermore
some question if all of these wave-
lengths can be retained.

The Copenhagen conference on
European frequencies held last summer
proposed drastic cuts in the facilities
now in use in Germany. The United
States entered into the record a for-
mal reservation stating it would not
be bound by this agreement threaten-
ing the high-powered transmitters in
the US occupation areas in Germany.

While holding firmly to the
reservation and making no prepara-
tions to conform with the Copenhagen
agreement, US radio officials have
encouraged the development of
Frequency Modulation as the only
solution of the frequency shortage
problem, US-sponsored stations are
already operating experimental FM
transmitters to test their suitability
for wide use and German
manufacturers are study-

ing the prospects for
providing both  trans-
mitters and _ receivers

necessary for such de-
velopment. If this is the
turn German radio takes,
it opens the possibility
of expanding and diversi-
fying the present radio
setup along a number of
lines, including that of
financing.

T PRESENT, German

stations with the
exception of those in
Berlin are financed by
the collection of listener
fees as is customary in
European countries. This

5

gram went on.

(photos by Oliver, DENA, Bors)

fee system is conducted on a state
basis and the public radio coun-
cil in each state administers the
funds for radio uses, It is apparent
that such a system, while it has
ardent proponents in Europe and has
worked out admirably in many cases
as the British Broadcasting Company
(BBC), lacks the incentive which is
provided by commercial competition
in American radio,

It is too early to say if commer-
cial radio will ever come to Germany.
With Frequency Modulation opening
up more frequencies, perhaps it will
be possible to grant licenses to small
commercial stations which will furnish
competition to the state radio system
and to each other, There is consider-
able interest evident among Germans
anxious to experiment in such a
venture,

(Continued on next page)

Radio Frankfurt inaugurated a round-table of the
air to promote public interest and discussion of
public problems. But the Germans were puzzled.
For one thing, how could they have a round-
table discussion when the studio had only square
tables. So a round table was found and the pro-

(photo from ISD OMGUS)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
There.is also a constant stream of
requests for installations to be
subsidized and used by _ special
groups, i. e. labor, political parties,
religious organizations, etc. These re-
quests have been refused by Military
Government, which still retains re-
sponsibility for frequency allocation,
because of the lack of frequencies
and the feeling that if one or two
low power ‘channels should become
available, so powerful an advantage
should not be given to any one
special interest.

If however, commercial radio does
become feasible in Germany through
development in FM, it will not only
offer the advantage of opening up the
field to a “multiplicity of voices" but
will probably be regulated under the
public radio council to serve the
general public interest. These, how-
ever, are still questions of the future,

T PRESENT, Americans who work

in the field of radio feel that
there is considerable ground for
satisfaction with the progress that has
been made in four years toward
sound, democratic radio in the US
Zone of Germany, (There is no
illusion, however, that it has the
stability, the toughness and the deep
roots which support the structure of
free radio in the United States.) The
present staffs are those who have
been schooled with Western demo-
cratic concepts of free expression. An
attempt has been made in these
years also to educate the community
to what it should demand of its radio
station, And courses of indoctrination
were provided for newly-elected
members of the public radio councils,

As a result of these measures and
probably because of some genuine
German desire and respect for un-
restricted information, free radio is
operating well and apparently with
public approval. Nevertheless, there
are occasional signals of future prob-
lems, such as a high German official
requesting that a commentator be
prohibited from criticizing a current
policy of the government. ‘‘We might
want to change this policy,” he ex-
plained, “and we wouldn't want it to
appear that we had done so as the
result of public pressure.”

But that incident reveals a basic
weakness in the German attitude that
affects much more than merely de-
mocratic radio, On the other hand it
is known that one German commen-
tator, vigorous and effective in his
attacks on Communism, stubbornly
remains on the air though one mem-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

| Archives Should Be Made Available

HE DOCUMENTARY treasures of

German history: must be made
available to all the people and nol
reserved for scholars and government
officials," commented an expert con-
sultant to the Cultural Affairs Branch,
OMGUS. The consultant, Mr. Ernst
Posner, director of the School of
Social Science and Public Affairs,
American University, Washington,
D.C., is touring the US Area of
Occupation to promote a two-point
program for improvement of German
historical archives,

Use of new techniques for preserva-
tion of old documents and extension
of archival service to the general
public were cited by Mr. Posner as
two aims for German archivists. He
criticized German archivists for an
“ivory tower’ attitude, said docu-
mentary records of the past must
contribute to the cultural growth of
the whole people and recommended
that German documents be popularized
rather than reserved for research.

XHIBITIONS, lectures and school

tours were suggested by the
American educator as practical means
to make historical records a part of
today's culture. He pointed to the
“Freedom Train” in the United States
as a dramatic and effective means of
increasing popular interest in a
nation’s documentary records.

Mr. Posner, pointing out that Hit-
ler's racial program forced archives
to concentrate on  geneological
research, said this concentration on
“family trees diverted archivists’
attention from technical developments
in other fields.

During Germany's 13-year isolation
the “lamination process,'’ which speeds
restoration and preservation of docu-
ments, was developed in the United
States. With the lamination method
documents are preserved between
two chemically-treated transparent
plates. This process has replaced the
time-consuming hand labor method
still in use in Germany.

ERMANY'S greatest loss of docu-

ments as a result of the war was
removal of the Bremen archives to
Russia. Almost all other historical
records are intact after careful
protection and concealment during
the war.

Amog the documents preserved in
German archives are official papers
dating from the eighth century.
Parchment documents issued by
Charlemagne with a horizontal stroke
as signature and the Golden Buli of
1356 which created the legal basis
for further development of the Holy
Roman Empire are among the greatest
documentary treasures.

ber of his family in the East Zone
has been imprisoned as a result and
he himself has been both threatened
and offered bribes to stop his
broadcasts,

HERE SOME men exist who will
thus fight to get facts to the
public, there is hope that the idea of

responsible freedom of expression -

will take deep root and that demo-
cratic radio will be protected by the
Germans themselves as one of the
means by which men remain free.

-+END

Long-Term Credit

The US and UK deputy military
governors informed the Bizonal Econo-
mic Administration in Frankfurt
that DM 200,000,000 ($60,000,000)
of GARIOA counterpart funds would
be released to the Reconstruction Loan
Corporation for the long-term credit
program,

RadioEducational Campaign

MG radio personnel at Radio Stutt-
gart are conducting an educational
campaign among the organizations
proposed for representation on the
radio council to be created under
legislation passed by the Wuerttem-
berg-Baden assembly. This campaign
of conferences and lectures represents
the final phase of a long-term educa-
tional project entered on by Military
Government at the time it was decided
to transfer control of the radio sta-
tions to German hands.

Now concentrated on those organi-
zations with potential representation
on the council and devoted to the
functions and duties of council mem-
bers in preserving freedom in radio,
the educational work initially was
directed to radio listeners and the
general public in an effort to establish
high standards of conduct for radio
officials through widespread public
awareness.

JULY 12, 1949

--- Page 10 ---
Community Councils
-- — Self-Help Solves Local Problems

ERMAN community councils, like~

those in the United States, are
unofficial citizens committees or-
ganized to solve local problems
through community cooperation,

The activities of two of these
councils in Wuerttemberg-Baden—one
in Fellbach, the other in Schorndorf
—constitute examples of practical
democratic reorientation. The Fellbach
community council was organized on
Feb, 7, 1949. Fellbach is a small city
of 20,000 population, just beyond the
outskirts of Stuttgart. The mayor is
a progressive official interested in the
welfare of the community.

Prior to the meeting for organizing
Fellbach's community council, two
preliminary discussions were held.
The job of the American adviser at
these meeting was to sell the idea
to a selected group of men and
women, as such an organization had
never existed in Germany, The mayor
was asked to act as temporary chair-
man, When he called for nominations
for the office of council chairman, the
members looked around at each other,
apparently at a loss as to whom to
nominate. After a few moments the
mayor said “If nobody wishes to
make a nomination, I should like to
suggest Mrs. Hedwig Walter.” She was
immediately elected by acclamation.

FTER THE council was organized,

committees were appointed to
assume responsibility for the solution
of certain community problems. The
problems selected reveal some of the
difficulties of life in small city in
Germany—a city that was not bombed.
The energy with which the committees
attacked their problems, their success
in securing community cooperation,
and the speed with which projects
Were carried through to conclusion
would be remarkeble even in a pro-
gressive American city.

At the end of seven weeks—March
29—all committees were ready to
make progress reports to the com-
munity council, The accomplishments
they had achieved were considerable.

A small community sales room had
been rented, stocked and opened for
business, This small one-room store
enables women and handicapped and
unemployed persons to make articles
at home and have a sales outlet for

JULY 12, 1949

Article

by Dr. Ralph E. Berry

Deputy Chief, Group Activities Branch
Education & Cultural Relations Division
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden

their disposal. The store operates on
a 15 percent margin. Local merchants
were contacted prior to the opening
of the store, and voiced no objection
when its purpose was explained.

A room was secured for a small
self-service laundry. Complete laundry
equipment was installed at a cost of
approximately DM 3,000 ($900), The
city contributed about half of the
cost; the remainder was secured by
the council through donations.

In order not to compete with local
commercial laundries, use of this
self-help laundry is restricted to those
on local welfare rolls and other needy
persons. The cost per hour is one-
third of the commercial laundry rate.
The city pays the salary of the man
who schedules the use of the laundry
and services the equipment. Each

person brings her own wood for
heating the boiler,

PRACTICAL course in_ traffic

control was organized for the
school children, and 20 school boys
were trained as traffic officers, As-
signments are rotated morning, noon
and evening. This project, organized
and operated just as similar projects
are in the United States, has won
complete community approval,

At the suggestion of the American
adult education officer, an educational
program was organized for young men
between the ages of 20 and 30 years.
Many of these persons had been
Hitler Youth members or former scl-
diers in the German army. Disillu-
sioned and often embittered, they
form a problem group in almost every
community. Most communities realize
the fact, but do nothing constructive
to solve the difficulty.

Under the leadership of a demo-
cratic-minded man _ eight interest
groups were formed, Each group
attends classes or discussion meetings

(Continued on next page)

Attending the opening of the community store in Fellbach in March were:
(front row, left to right) Mrs. Schwarz, owner of the store; Mrs. Baessler, store
manager; Mrs. Gasser, wife of the mayor; Mrs. Strom; Mrs, Walter, chairman
of the Community Council; Miss Blewett, women's affairs adviser of OMGWB;
Mayor Graser; Mrs. Luchting, manager of the Stuttgart Community Bazar;
(second row) Mr. Rieger, council member; Mr. Mailaender, manager of
the Stuttgart Welfare Office; Mrs. Lallatin, council member; Mrs. Baier;

Dr. Schlenker, council member; Dr. Berry, author of this article.

7

(photo by Utz)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
on topics of their own choosing. There
is at present no adult evening school
in the community. The council plans
to develop the present small project
into an evening school in which
classes and discussion meetings on
topics chosen by individual groups
will predominate.

A cooking and baking school was
set up for girls and young housewives.
Fish is an important item of the
German diet, and Wuerttemberg
women know little about its prepa-
ration, An expert cook, who donates
her services, trains the members of
the class to prepare various fish
dishes and to use fish in combination
with other foods, Baking is also
taught to those who wish such in-
struction. Each person brings her
own food, is charged a nominal sum
of 80 pfennigs (24 cents) for use of
facilities, prepares the food under
supervision and eats it.

ITH THESE five projects organized

and in successful operation the
whole council of 10 men and 10
women is now working on a larger
project. The members are preparing
to canvass the entire community to
organized a_ city-wide assistance
project for all women who find it
difficult to be away from home
because of family duties or physical
condition,

The project has two objectives. One
is to establish a baby sitter service
on a city-wide basis. The women are
enthusiastic about the plan, but time
alone will tell how the men will react

to this radical departure from tradition.
The second objective is to provide
a source of income for all “stay-at-
home” women who have the time,
ability and desire to do handicraft
work or dressmaking for sale. The
outlet will be an enlarged community
self-help sales store.

CHORNDORF is also a small city

of 17,000 population not far from
Stuttgart. The Schorndorf community
council was organized last March 7
at the third meeting of a group of
20 local men and women. The wife
of the mayor was elected chairman.
Although this tied the council closely
to the city administration, the choice
was good because of her personality
and leadership ability.

Committees were appointed to deal
with these community problems: A
community self-help laundry room; a
community self-help store where ar-
ticles made at home could be sold,
and a day nursery for children of
employed mothers. The first and
second problems are found in almost
every city. The third also is every-
where present, but is being handled,
often inadequately, in few cities,

The council at once experienced
difficulties in trying to find three
rooms, each suited to a different
project. After discussing the matter
and canvassing the possibilities, they
boldly decided to combine the three
projects in one. large project—to
erect a building which would house
the three.

Corner of the cooperative salesroom at Fellbach,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(photo from OMGWB)

-urged the people to support it in the ©

HE MANNER in which the council

gained publicity and won com-
munity support is interesting. The
mayor had scheduled a public meeting
for discussion of various local matters,
At this meeting he called attention to
the council, stated its objectives and

interests of the entire community.

The council, shortly thereafter,
arranged a “Swabian Afternoon” ~
program. It was an interesting pro-
gram of Swabian songs and reci-
tations, and vocal and instrumental
numbers. A lottery was also conducted
at which chances were sold for dozens
of articles, donated by the business- ©
men of the community. Admission
tickets at DM 1.50 (45 cents) entitled
the holder to a cup of coffee and a
piece of cake, Additional coffee, cake
and cookies could be purchased. Most |
of the food was donated by the
women of the community. 4

Next, the council members con+
tacted the laboring population and
secured the promise of a sufficient
number of free man-hours to erect
the foundation of the building. Plans
and specifications for the building”
also were secured free of charge.
Then they embarked upon a campaign
to interest the school children of th
city.

Each school child able and willing
to do so, is to draw a picture card:
These cards are called “bricks for
the community building. The children
are to sell these cards for one mam
(30 cents) each, the money to go into
the building fund. This sale already
has started. The council also is em
listing the help of youth organizations
and other groups in the city
promote the building project.

OMMUNITY councils such
these have a high value in

in group and community
cooperation on a non-political and
non-sectarian basis. This is particu
larly valuable in a country where
political and sectarian cleavages afe
often sharp. Also, every commun
council project carried to a ‘successht
conclusion provides concrete evidence
that the citizens themselves can take
the initiative and get results.

Thought patterns around the idea’
of cooperation and individual initi
tive will be developed by repeatet
successful experiences. This will tem
to break down the old tradition
the people should wait for’ ord
from above before embarking w
any project. “a

practice

JULY 12, 19

--- Page 12 ---
Trade Union Federation

— — To be Organized in West Germany

NEW organization is in the mak-

ing which many competent ob-
servers expect to be one of the
strongest democratic bulwarks of the
young western German state,

A conference at Koenigswinter,
held May 3 and 4 moved the project
toward a concrete plan. Forty top
trade union officials from all three
Western Zones of Germany were
present, delegated by the democratic-
ally-elected executive boards of the
several trade union federations and
trade unions in Western Germany.
Out of the Koenigswinter meeting
came the decision by the so-called
“preparatory committee” to convene
in Munich from Oct. 12 to 14 a
charter congress whose task will be
to found a Western German Trade
Union Federation,

The prospective Western German
Trade Union Federation will con-
stitute a milestone on the road to-
wards the reconstitution of the Ger-
man trade-union movement which,
because of its adherence to dem-
ocratic ideals, fell victim in 1933, to
the onslaughts of Nazism, Notwith-
standing the efforts to reconcile labor
to the loss of its liberties, the Nazi
regime proved to have been con-
spicuously unsuccessful in extinguish-
ing the desire of the German working
population for genuine labor or-
ganization.

NTIL NOW the western German
trade unions have recruited
than 5,000,000 members con-
stituting 40 percent of the working
population, a better record than in
the pre-1933 period. This achievement
compares most favorably with that in
other major industrial countries where
union membership is voluntary,

more

The Western German Trade Union
Federation has been four years in the
making. Ever since the beginning of
the occupation, western German
unions have striven towards the geo-
graphic expansion of their or-
Sanizations which at first were formed
on a local level covering a county or
district, Subsequently, these local
trade unions in the US and French
Zones tespectively amalgamated into
State trade unions which, in turn,
formed state trade union federations.

JULY 12, 1949

Article

ty Albert H. Berman
Chief, Research & Analysis Branch
Manpower Division, OMGUS

In the British Zone, the merger of
similar unions, such as the metal
unions, was effected on a zonal level
and, correspondingly, a zone-wide
federation was formed. Thus, there
are now seven trade union federations
in western Germany to which are
affiliated 100 state and zona] trade
unions.

ITH THE economic fusion of the
British and US Zones in 1947,
the trade unions in the combined
economic area considered it not only

US Zone trade unions could affiliate
with those in other zones provided
that economic unity, freedom of
movement and a free exchange of
ideas prevailed‘ among the zones
concerned, US Military Government
would have no objection to bizonal
trade union mergers, the Military
Governor declared, inasmuch as these
conditions had been fulfilled in the
combined economic area, Shortly
afterwards, British Military Govern-
ment issued a similar pronouncement
to British Zone trade unions,

HE PROPOSALS to form bizonal
labor organizations were discussed
and voted upon by union governing
bodies and delegates’ conventions
throughout the Bizonal Area. Apart

Members of the Trizonal Trade Union Council and Secretariat (left to right
front row sitting) Erich Buehrig, Frankfurt; Adolf Ludwig, Mainz; Matthias
Foecher, Duesseldorf; Dr. Hans Boeckler, Duesseldorf. (Back row standing)
Willi Richter, Frankfurt; Lorenz Hagen, Munich; Georg Reuter, Frankfurt;
Hans vom Hoff, Duesseldorf; Markus Schleicher, Stuttgart; Ludwig Rosenberg,

Frankiurt; Albin Karl, Duesseldorf.

desirable but essential to establish
even closer relations than those
hitherto maintained. As the first step
in this direction, leading union of-
ficials in the Bizonal Area proposed,
on Aug. 20, 1947, the establishment of
an informal bizonal Trade Union
Council to serve as a coordinating
body until a bizonal trade union
federation was created.

In his conference with top US
Zone trade unionists on Sept. 8, 1947,
the US Military Governor stated that

9

(Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund photo)

from adverse criticism largely by Com-
munist elements, overwhelming
endorsement was given by trade
unionists who pointed out that bi-
zonal trade unions, rather than pre-
judicing the eventual formation of
Germany-wide trade union movement,
were a step forward in that direction.

Before proceeding with the develop-
ment of a specific organizational pro-
gram, the bizonal Trade Union Coun-
cil called together on May 25 and 26,

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
1948, the executive boards of all trade
union organizations in the Bizonal
Area for the most august -labor con-
clave in postwar Germany, Having
received a mandate from the union
memberships, the trade union ex-
ecutives reaffirmed their approval of
bizonal amalgamations of their or-
ganizations, They accordingly set up
an organizational committee to work
out plans leading towards a bizonal
trade union federation. It was generally
agreed that the mergers of individual
trade unions would precede the con-
solidation of the state and zonal trade
union federations.

While the organizational committee
set about fulfilling its function of
drawing up plans for a bizonal union
federation, the individual trade unions
considered ways and means of
merging their associations. In March
1948, railway unions in the US and
British Zones held a joint convention
which founded the first bizonal trade
union. Before the year was over,
French Zone trade unions expressed
their interest in participating in the
creation of multi-zonal union or-
ganizations in view of the prospective
economic unification of the three
western zones.

On Dec. 20, 1948, the French Zone
trade unions were accorded re-
presentation on the informal Trade
Union Council which, effective Jan. 1,
1949, became a trizonal body, Within
a few months, trizonal trade unions
such as those for the clothing and
leather industry and for the wood-
working industry were being formed.
Various steps are furthermore being
taken to extend existing bizonal trade
unions to the trizonal level. On
June 23 and 24 for example, a trizonal
railway union convention was held
for this purpose. Within the very
ngar future, it is expected that all
contemplated trizonal trade unions
will have been established.

FTER NINE months of delibera-

tions, the organizational com-
mittee submitted its proposals for a
western German trade union federa-
tion to a meeting of leading trade
unionists in the Trizonal Area. While
the conference, held at Koenigswinter
in February 1949, was not intended to
lay down any hard and fast rules on
the structure of the trizonal federa-
tion, the discussions have never-
theless served to guide the newly-
formed "preparatory committee” for
the founding congress. Indications are
that the work of the committee, which
has held three meetings to date, is
proceeding rapidly.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

How will the prospective Western
German Trade Union Federation
look? Only the broad outlines of this
new organization can be sketched at
this time inasmuch as the basic
decisions will be made at the charter
congress in October, The trizonal
anion federation will resemble dem-
ocratic federations in other countries
such as the American Federation of
Labor and the Congress of Industrial
Organizations in the United States. It
will consist of a varying number of
trade unions, somewhere between 16
and 20 in number, which are expected
to affiliate with the federation. These
unions will be the trizonal trade
unions which have been formed or
will soon be created.

N ALMOST all instances, the tri-

zonal trade unions will be the
only labor organizations in their
respective jurisdictional areas. From
the very beginning of the occupation,
former trade union officials in rival
pre-1933 federations have eschewed
their differences in favor of united
trade unions free of political party or
denominational commitments. Thus,
the Western German Textile and
Clothing Union is, for example, the
only trade union in that field.

Moreover, the trade unions will
have a very broad jurisdictional base
covering one or more major in-

dustries. This accounts for the
relatively small number of trade
unions in existence, Before 1933,

there were 216 trade unions in Ger-
many. As previously noted, the
western German trade union federa-
tion will have only from 16 to 20 af-
filiates. Some trade union leaders
believe that salaried employees
should belong to the same unions as
wage earners, while others hold that
salaried employees should have their
own organization cutting across
economic fields, This issue which is

still a moot point awaits final
resolution,
While the exact relationship

between the western German trade
unions and their federation remains
to be determined, union leaders are in
agreement that the individual trade
unions will be autonomous. This
means that the trade unions will have
the right to manage their own affairs
and to administer their funds except
for contributions necessary for the
operations of the federation. The
general function of the federation
will be to represent those broad
trade union interests which can
be handled most effectively in
coordinated manner. While these

10

arrangements may seem insignificant
on paper, the Soviet Zone Trade
Union Federation offers a fair idea of
what happens when these principles
are not followed.

NDEED, it may be questioned why

a western German trade union
federation is being formed instead of
a Germany-wide labor organization.
The answer to this question does not
lie alone in the MG position that
free and democratic trade unions
cannot exist except where the basic
freedoms are observed. Perhaps the
complete reply may best be indicated
by the following quotation from a
published article by a prominent
western German trade union leader:

“We regret the impossibility of
creating a German Trade Union
Federation including the Soviet Zone.
Unfortunately, this is prevented in
addition to the zonal boundaries by
the differences in trade union ide-
ology, which exist for the time being,
between the Western and the Soviet
Zones, The trade unions in the
Western Zones wish to be active
independent of any state power, from
employers and also from the influence
of the occupation powers; this can
indeed not be said with conviction
about the other side.” --END

Magazine Difficulties

Illustrative of the precarious financ-
jal status of much of the German
publishing industry was the failure
during April of two Bavarian ma-
gazines: Tempo, a sport magazine, and
Der Ruf (The Call), a magazine for
young intellectuals.

Suspension of the latter magazine
is an indication of the attitudes and
interests of the student-age groups in
Germany, as well as of the financial
hazards confronting attempts by
private individuals or groups to reor-
jent German youth. Der Ruf was
started in the United States by young
German prisoners of war and con-
tinued after their return home.

At one time attaining a circulation
of 70,000, the periodical was inspir-
ational and idealistic, It opposed the
postwar cynicism of young German
intellectuals, arguing man’s moral
obligations to society and presenting
democracy as a social and political
goal. After currency reform, Der Ruf
consistently lost circulation and, des-
pite editorial changes to give it 4
wider appeal, was finally forced to
cease publication. — From Military
Governor's Monthly Report No. 46.

JULY 12, 1949

--- Page 14 ---
School of Journalism
— — On-the-Job Training Experiment

N EXPERIMENT ‘seeking to im-

prove German journalism was
inaugurated at the Abendzeitung
(Evening Newspaper) School of Jour-
nalism in Munich June 15. Twenty
young Germans selected from 1700
applicants from western Germany
began a two-year on-the-job training
course in the editorial office of the
Munich daily newspaper,

The students will be paid DM 300
($90) a month during their training,
and the top five of the group will be
given an opportunity to continue
their journalistic studies at an Ame-
rican university. The next five on the
hist will be able to attend a German
university.

To appreciate the importance of
this project, it is necessary to know
that one of the main obstacles to the
development of a democratic press
in Germany has been the lack of
professionally trained and qualified
young newspaper men. Those who
desire to enter newspaper work are
given few opportunities. German
schools have nothing similar to our
American school paper, whereby boys
and girls can develop a writing ability
at an early age.

There is no such thing as the
campus daily at German universities,
nor do the latter publish magazines
and periodicals by and for the stu-
dents, featuring student contributions.
This lack of opportunity to contribute
to a local school paper is a serious
handicap to German youth and to
German journalism in general.

HAT THE National Socialist re-

gime did to German journalism
is well known. The perversions and
innovations introduced by the Goeb-
bel’s propaganda ministry had to be
discarded when the post-war German
press came into being, More than
2,000 German journalists were inter-
viewed to select the present 49 licen-
Sees of Bavaria’s 27 newspapers, none
of whom had been able to practice
his profession under the Nazi regime.
Many had spent years in concen-

tration camps, labor camps and in
exile,

Because of the exacting MG re-

quirements, most of the licensees
Selected were about 50 years of age
ormore, A number were in poor health

JULY 12, 1949

Article
by Ernest Langendorf
Chief, Press Branch

Information Services Division

OMG Bavaria

and physically unable to carry on,
while their talents had grown rusty
during twelve years of inactivity. In
addition, most practicing journalists
in Germany had been trained in the
out-moded traditions of German jour-
nalism—long and obtuse editorials,
highbrow feuilletons and mixing of
news and opinions.

Under these circumstances, it be-
came increasingly obvious that the

the best features of American and
German newspapers, presented world
as well as local. news and enhanced
its pages with photographs, boxes and
special columns. Its sprightly way of
setting forth the news in short articles
and its freedom from lengthy edi-
torials and lead articles made it
perhaps the most readable newspaper
in Germany.

The immediate success of the Tages-
zeitung, notwithstanding its competi-
tion with two other well-established
newspapers, led Military Government
to provide for the paper's continuation
by licensing it as a regular daily
newspaper. Because the two other
Munich newspapers were morning

Mr. Langendori (second from right), author of this article, observes interview-

ing of candidates,

German press needed new blood,
which could only be supplied by Ger-
man youth trained in the most mo-
dern and up-to-date methods of ga-
thering and presenting news.

HE MUNICH Press Exhibition”,
providentially opening in May
1948, seemed to offer a partial solution
of the problem. As a special feature
of the exhibition, a six-page daily
newspaper, the Tageszeitung (Daily
Newspaper) was edited, made up and
printed in full view of visitors.
The Tageszeitung represented, in a
small way, a revolution in German
journalism. It endeavored to combine

* See “The Press on Review" in Informa-
tion Bulletin, Issue No. 137, June 15, 1948.

11

(Fosch photo)

papers, the new paper was published
in the afternoon and renamed the
Abendzeitung (Evening Newspaper).
Werner Friedmann, co-licensee of
the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (South Ger-
man Newspaper), offered to assume
the responsibilities of publisher and
to manage the paper on a non-profit
basis so that all profits could be de-
voted to the training of journalists—
the Abendzeitung itself serving as a
laboratory for students of journalism.

FTER CURRENCY reform the
amount of advertising and re-
venue of the newspaper increased.
By the beginning of 1949 sufficient
funds had been accumulated to an-
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
nounce a plan for the establishment
of 20 fellowships in journalism. The
announcement, publicized throughout
western Germany, invited Germans
between the ages of 20 and 32 to send
in a short life histovy and a 50-line
typewritten account, “in newspaper
style,” of either “Ten Minutes at a
Police Station” or “A Meeting of a

* Government Body—Municipal, County,
City or State.”

When the contest closed, 1700 ap-
plications had been received, of which
220 were from women. Thirty percent
of the applicants were from outside
Bavaria and a majority of the remain-
ing 70 percent were from expellees
and former residents of the Soviet
Zone of Germany—the total giving a
representative cross section of Ger-
man youth.

Applications were examined tho-
roughly by several committees, in-
cluding one made up of members of
the MG press officers. The results
were disappointing. The life history
of applicants revealed the tragic le-
gacy which German youth inherited
from the Nazi regime. Almost without
exception, their education was se-
riously disrupted first by compulsory
labor service (Reichsarbeitsdienst) and
then by the war itself,

OST APPLICANTS had resumed
their education after the end
of the war but then were faced with
bombed out schools, inadequate text-
books, lack of teachers and the daily
grind of getting enough to eat, The

lack of sound education, the effects
of Nazi indoctrination, the experience
suffered on the many war fronts and
in prisoner-of-war camps, the dis-
illusionment following the collapse of
the Hitler regime—all left an indelible
mark on these German youth which
was reflected in the autobiographies
submitted with their applications.
From a purely journalistic point of
view, the reports were poor, showing
a lack of initiative, resourcefulness
and imagination and evidence of being
generally theoretical and introspec-
tive.

However, by process of elimination
91 applicants were invited to Munich
for further written and oral tests. The
tests consisted of the following:

First, candidates were required to
identify the pictures of 30 outstanding
world figures, living and dead, in the
field of politics, science, history and
literature. Next, they were given
30 questions to test their general
knowledge. Following the quiz, can-
didates were given ten minutes in
which to write an interview with
a Munich police official.

HEY WERE then divided into

groups of five and interviewed
by members of the examining com-
mission in order to evaluate their
personalities, aptitude for newspaper
work and the reasons why they chose
journalism as their profession. The
final and most difficult test consisted
of individual news assignments, drawn
by lot and designed to test the in-

Werner Friedmann, director of the

Abendzeitung School of Jour-

nalism, had been an outstanding
: (Fosch photo)

young German journalist on the
Sueddeutsche Sonntagspost (South
German Sunday Post) in the pre-
Hitler days, but in 1933 he was
arrested and imprisoned by the
Nazis. He did not resume his
journalistic career until selected
by Military Government in the
summer of 1945 to be a co-licensee
of Munich's Sueddeutsche Zei-
tung. Last fall he was in a group
of 15 German journalists invited
under auspices of the Rockefeller
Foundation to attend a six-week
course at the American Press In-
stitute of Columbia Universiiv.
His experiences at the institute
and in American newspaper Offi-
ces resulted in many of the
methods and techniques introduc-
ed at the Abendzeitung school
and in plans for the exchange of
German and American students of
journalism.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

genuity, resourcefulness and repor-_
torial ability of the applicant. 4

When these tests were completed
and studied the results again wer
disappointing. Even among this select
group of 91 there existed an appalling
lack of information and signs of in-
tellectual immaturity, Only 17 made
the minimum points set by the com.
mission for the different tests. Few
candidates, for example, recognized —
the pictures of General Eisenhower or
Albert Einstein, or even of Goethe or
Richard Wagner. Only a small num-
ber knew that during the war Eisen-—
hower was commander-in-chief of
the Allied armed forces in western
Europe. Many believed that a peace
treaty with Germany had _ been
signed at Compiégne in May, 1945,
and that Germany still had a foreign
office. Many could not identify either
“Gallup” or "Bikini."

On German affairs they were little”
better informed, Few knew how many
states there were in western Ger.
many, could name a president of the
Weimar Republic or tell to. which
party outstanding German politica
leaders belong. In spite of the wid
publicity given to Goethe in recent
months, half of the candidates though
this was the bicentennial of his dea

were not outstanding but
more hopeful signs.

FTER A CAREFUL review of tht

merits of each candidate base¢
on a point system, a list of 20 name
including four women, was agree
upon, The chosen candidates aver
26 years of age and all have at least
the equivalent of a junior colleg
education. a

These 20 carefully selected student
began their training at the Abend
zeitung in mid-June. Students wor
closely with the professional staff ©

publications. They produce _ the
own dummy copy each mornin
study the methods of receiving a
compiling news in

agency dispatches and official ha
outs; how the paper is made up,

of headlines, type-setting, prot
reading, checking stories, and oth
essential details. : i

Lessons in shorthand, typing af
English occupy four hours a weél
In addition, there are lectures
foreign and domestic affairs, curre
events, history, geography, economit

--- Page 16 ---
art, theater and music by experts in
each field. Regular seminars are held
at which outstanding political leaders
discuss problems of the day with the
students. Students accompany seasoned
reporters on assignments and are able
to observe first hand how interviews
are conducted and how news is
gathered,

HE Abendzeitung School of

Journalism has been legally
recognized by the Bavarian govern-
ment as a non-profit institution and,
as such, is exempt from taxation.

Only time can determine whether
the selected students will justify this
expenditure of time and money and
whether the training provided by
the Abendzeitung is tailored to the
needs of the participants, It is hoped , :
that through trial and error the Examining board listens to woman applicant (left) telling why she thinks German

school will eventually achieve its women have an important place in postwar German journalism. —_(Fosch photo)
goal—that of providing the German *

press with well-trained, competent
men and women. -+END

Bank Decentralization

A revised edition of MG Law
No. 57, “Custodians for Certain Bank
Organizations’, now titled ‘“Decentra-
lization of Banks," with counterpart
legislation in the UK and French
Zones, extends the decentralization
policy of the Military Governments
to all banks other than those whose
operations are confined to the grant-
ing of medium- or long-term credits.

The latter may, with the approval
of the Bank Deutscher Laender,
establish and maintain branches out-
side of the states in which their head
offices are situated. The maintenance
of branches of this description is 3
forbidden to other banks, but they
are permitted to maintain correspon-

A German editor (right) discusses newspaper problems in postwar Germany
with a group of candidates (Fosch photo)

dent relations and to engage in trans-
actions outside of their home estates.
Activities of banks in the US Zone
are to be completely independent of
all direct or indirect control by other
banking institutions, apart from that
which may be exercised by the Bank
Deutscher Laender,

Custodians appointed to manage
the affairs of the Deutsche, Dresdner,
and Commerz Banks under the orig-
inal version of MG Law No. 57,
dated May 6, 1946, are to continue in
Office. They a Temain free of i i
all contra. + na er asent share- Candidates take notes on a model interview between a German police official
holders or directors, and a veteran reporter. (ose proto)

1
JULY 12, 1949 13 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Two supervising editors of sunday school publications reaching 80,000
American children, the director of the Washington office of CARE, and the
woman who was instrumental in launching a Christmas fund for German and
Ausirian children are visiting German Youth Activities centers to find out
practical things Americans can do to aid the EUCOM GYA program. (ieft to
right) Col. David M, Fowler, EUCOM; Mrs. Jouett Shouse, voluntary youth
worker; Mr. and Mrs, Arthur Sherrill, editors; Lt. Col. R. C. Hall, EUCOM,

and Mrs, Beatrice Schalet, of CARE.

(US Army Photo)

| Revival of Trade Unions Progress |

ESTERN German trade unions

have made great progress in
the reestablishment of their organiza-
tions suppressed in 1933 by the Nazi
regime. Since their reconstitution in
1945, the western German irade
unions have succeeded in recruiting
more members than were enrolled in
that area before 1933, according to a
statistical survey of trade union
membership in the three Western
Zones of Germany completed by the
Manpower Division, OMGUS.

The survey shows that the western
German trade unions have a
membership of approximately 5,000,000,
constituting 40 percent of the organiz-
able working population in western
Germany. “This record compares
most favorably with the trade union
movements in major industrial coun-
tries in the world where union
membership is on a voluntary basis,”
said Mr. Leo R. Werts, director of
the OMGUS Manpower Division.

Due to certain dissimilarities among
the trade unions in the three Western
Zones—organized leather workers,
for example, belonging at the time
of the survey to the chemicals union
in Bavaria, and to the textile and
clothing union in Bremen—the data
on union membership has been ar-
ranged. according to economic groups

INFORMATION BULLETIN

rather than unions in order to permit
comparison with employment figures.

HE HIGHEST percentage of union

organization is found in the
mining industry, where 91 percent of
the 565,000 workers belong to a trade
union, Railway workers are in second
place with 451,000 union members out
of 604,000 wage and salary earners.
The degree of union organization is
also high in the metal, postal, public
services, and chemicals fields, varying
between 54 and 71 percent. As is the
case in many other countries, agri-
culture and forestry workers are the
least organized, with only 11 percent
of the 1,350,000 wage and salary
earners in this field belonging to
unions.

The survey also shows that the
Berlin UGO, which split in June 1948
with the Communist-controlled Free
Trade Union Federation, has been
making good progress under extremely
adverse conditions. By April 1949,
the Berlin UGO had succeeded in
recruiting 170,000 members in spite
of the adverse economic conditions
resulting from the Soviet-imposed
blockade. It may be expected that the
UGO's membership will increase
steadily as economic conditions im-
prove, the report concludes.

14

‘

Imports Aided by JFPO
Total $ 250,000,000

PPROXIMATELY $ 250, 000, 000

worth of foodstuffs, seeds and fer-
tilizers from American and world-
wide sources have flowed into the
ports of Bizonal Area during the fiscal
year 1948/49 as a result of contracts
negotiated through the Joint Food
Procurement’ Office. Mr. William
A. Close, chief of the office, said this
entire dollar amount was financed by
proceeds of Germany's exports. A
large portion of this figure, however,
included imports negotiated through
trade agreements,

The Joint Food Procurement Office,
which Mr. Close headed since its in-
ception in May 1948, closed its doors
officially June 1 at which time in line
with established Military Government —
policies the buying for the Bizonia
needs was turned over to the
Germans.

URING the past year, Mr. Close —
said, the largest imports into
Germany were in the form of fats and ©
oils, amounting to over $56,000,000
while seeds and fertilizers, totaling —
$49,000,000 ranked second, Fruits and
vegetables, procured mainly from
Italy, Spain, Holland and Belgium ©
amounted to $29,000,000, Norwegian,
Danish and British fish imports to-
taled $23,000,000 and more than ~
$13,500,000 was spent for the import
of South American, Belgian, America:
French, and Swiss meat products,
An additional $20,000,000 worth of
high caloric food was procured espe-_
cially as an incentive for the German |
miners, Mr. Close said, besides Bonus
B foodstuffs, amounting to appro:
imately $5,000,000 and $5,000,001
worth of coffee.

Neutralization Activity

One of the Western Zone political
groups to respond wholeheartedly to
Soviet Zone "rapprochement" moves
was the recently founded Nauheim
circle, which advocates the "neutral-
ization of Germany.” Prof, Ulri

been much lauded by the Soviet
licensed press and was inwited by the
University of Halle in the Soviel
Zone to speak about his group and
its aim in what was presumed to DE
the first of aseries of such "exchange

of ideas” between East and West
Professor Noack accepted’. this
vitation.

JULY 12, 194

--- Page 18 ---
Visual Arts

— — In German Schools, Museums, Universities

HE CURRENT condition of visual

arts—arts one enjoys by sight
rather than by ear—in western Ger-
many indicates first of all that
Military Government must take
the dragooned, nationalist character
out of German art.

Up to 1933 well to the fore in every-
thing concerning the arts, Germany
is today notably behind most of the
western world, Nazi policy put the
arts into a strait jacket, virtually
forbidding experiment in _ their
practice and their teaching, and
forcing them by various means to
serve the Nazi aim of stimulating
ultra-nationalist feeling. The best art
was German art, both then and in the
past; and the best way to do any-
thing was the German way—as defin-
ed by the Nazis.

Under MG guidance, the arts also
should develop their potentialities as
a means of release and expression for
individual personality, as a field for
experiment and speculation and as a
part of human activity which trans-
cends national and racial boundaries.
In Germany, the arts have long been
regarded as primarily the concern of
an instructed elite and not as some-
thing that can bring understanding

and delight to ordinary men and
‘women,
HUS, THROUGH this medium,

Military Government has means
to put into the German mind not
only a freer and more independent
way of thinking and a greater sense
of being part of an_ international
complex, but of emphasizing that the
good things of life should be at the
service of the whole community and
not of a chosen few.

This cannot be done by giving
orders and imposing penalties. If
there were nothing to build upon,
Suggestion, advice and supervision
would be useless, Germany has
however, a great tradition in the
Practice and teaching of the arts.
What can be done therefore is to
Pick up this tradition, enrich it with
all that can be learned from other
countries so that it becomes a more
humane, more civilized, more dem-
Ccratic element in German culture.

_ One great difficulty is that in all
fields, Germany is a land of old, tired

JULY 12, 1949

Article

by William G. Constable

Curator of Painting
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
and Visiting Expert
Education & Cultural Relations Division
OMGUS

men or of young and ignorant ones.
Here and there, middle-aged men of
ability and enterprise have survived
but their contemporaries either left
Germany, died or identfied themselves
with the Nazis. Lack of new ideas has
caused stagnation.

Take museums as an example, In
Germany, these are for the most part
petrified into a pattern evolved before
1914, Practically unknown is the con-
ception that has developed particularly
in the United States, of a museum
belonging to and serving the com-
munity as a whole in many directions.
The modern museum has installations
which attract, interest and inform
ordinary people; educational depart-
ments active with both adults and
children and working in close co-
operation with the schools. It is also
as accessible as possible to everyone.

Mr. Constable, author of this article,
during visit to Munich on his tour of

the US Zone. (PIO OMGB photo)

15

O CHANGE German ideas and
methods all at once is impossible,
but despite shortage of money and
buildings destroyed or damaged,
attempts in the right direction are
being made. When a museum director
has visited the United States under
the exchange program, he invariably
manifests a new _ readiness and
energy to develop and democratize
his museum. An exhibitions program
can be a most useful stimulus and
supplement to museum activity, Di-
rectors of museums can be encouraged
to circulate groups of the works of
art they cannot show, or to arrange
circulating exhibitions of German
contemporary art of various kinds so
that a wide range of people can see
what would otherwise be inaccessible.
Even more important is a program
of exhibitions of American art, and
particularly contemporary work, with
special stress upon architecture, and
on commercial and industrial art.
Germans are anxious to see and
learn from what America is doing,
and American example can _ start
thought and action which wil] put
the arts within reach of the whole
community.

In education, the teaching of art
history in the universities was once
something in which Germany had
great pride. But it often had become
arid and esoteric—a means of manu-
facturing specialists in the subject
for whom no posts could be found.
Here again, there are possibilities
and hope. Without losing former high
standards of scholarship, American
experience shows that the teaching
of art history can be extended over
a wide area in a university, made
part of a liberal education, and be-
coming a means of illuminating and
enriching the mind of those con-
centrating on other subjects,

N SCHOOLS there are similar
opportunities. In purely technical
accomplishment, the teaching of art
both in German primary and secon-
dary schools attained a high level.
Today, an idea is dawning of. its
powers as a means of emotional
release and adjustment, and of open-
ing for every child a door to new
sources of pleasure and inspiration.
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
But how to realize that idea is not
understood, and here American prac-
tice again can point the way. Once
more, the exchange program can help,
not only by taking German teachers
and students to the United States, but
also by attaching American teachers
from universities and schools to
appropriate institutions in Germany
where they would be welcomed.

Similarly, the artist can be helped.
In the Nazi period, the liveliest and
most accomplished architects, painters
and sculptors either left Germany or
could not practice their art, which
was classed as “degenerate,"’ cast out
from museums and sold, So leaders
are few, while the young are igno-
rant and fumbling.

One difficulty is the persistence in
Germany of the old system of train-
ing, in watertight compartments, ar-
tists in different mediums. The adapt-
ability, the capacity to direct creative
imagination into the channels where
it is most needed in Germany today,
is therefore apt to be lacking, Still,
there is hope.

There are schools now in operation
which are following the lines of train-
ing laid down in the well-known
Bauhaus at Dessau, which was closed
under Nazi pressure, In these, em-
phasis is on the German need for
designers in industry and commerce

Visiting the Wiesbaden Museum where 202 masterpieces were on display in

to enable a wide range of the popu-
lation to have seemly and practical
things for daily use.

ORTUNATELY, too, in the archi-

tectural schools there are some
lively and intelligent teachers who
sympathize with the attempts of
younger men to plan the rebuilding
of German cities suited to modern
meeds, and designed to provide good
housing and good environment for
the community as a whole. Their
efforts are hindered by official con-
servatism and by German respect for
authority.

Indeed, the brick by brick resto-
ration planned in many German cities
is not only retrograde from the point
of view of social welfare, but is a
waste of material and money. Often
it is inspired by the desire to re-
erect monuments around which Ger-
man nationalist sentiment may center,
or is the result of political pressure
exercised by religious and other
groups. Anything Military Govern-
ment can do to strengthen more en-
terprising, realistic and democratic
ideas in city planning and rebuilding
will be well rewarded, and here

again exchange of teachers and stu-
dents with the United States can be
most useful.

But merely sending people to the
United States and bringing Americans

May, Mr. Constable (center), author of this article, discusses the painting
“Venus, Mars and Armor” by Peiro Di Cosimo, with (left to right) Dr. David
Roell, director of the Holland National Galleries; Robert Girand, directer of
the Belgia National Galleries; E. O. Troche, director of the Nuremberg Museum,
and Theodore Heinrich, director of the Wiesbaden Central Collecting Point
and museums specialist of Education and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(PIO OMGH photo)

16

to Germany is not enough, There
must be constant watchfulness’ com-
bined with great resource and tact to
help here, discourage there, and to
implant ideas. In this, the exhibitions
program can be of value, especially
by carrying into smaller centers -
knowledge of American achievement
in such fields as the making of small
houses, pottery, glass and hardware—
to create discontent with present —
standards of life and set up new ones,
Particularly, effort should be made ©
to follow up the work of men and
women who have been to the United
States to see that the effects of the
visit are given an opportunity and are
not submerged by conservatism and
official ignorance.

LL THIS cannot be done without
men to carry out the plans, The
small group of experts at OMGUS
and in the zonal states cannot
possibly carry the whole burden.
Their work must be _ reinforced
throughout the zone with help from
every source available, Officers, some
of them already overworked, without ~
exception have been willing to do-
what they can to advise as to the
local situation, and help to further
any project. b
However well plans may be laid”
and however well they may be
operated, patience is indispensable. °
To plant a new idea in the German >
mind, to nourish it, and to see it bear 7
fruit will take a long time. But a”
cultural program well and truly con
ceived and carried out over a suffice |
iently long period has one advantage!
over all others: its effects are likely)
to be lasting. Laws can easily be}
changed, but just as ezsily evaded)
or repealed; institutions may be al-
tered, but can be twisted to serve”
old ends,
Change German minds, however”
and so long as that change is grafted’
on to earlier traditions there is hope
that a democratic, peace-lovin
nation may emerge.

Magazine Discontinued
The Weltluftfahrt (World Air Traffic),
published in Stuttgart, was ordered by
Military Government to cease public
ation. The magazine, which had been
given a special authorization as @”
publication dealing in a general way
with traffic topics, was devoting i
pages chiefly to aviation subjects, th
violating MG and ACA directives”
tegarding activities prohibited
Germans.

JULY 12, 1949)

--- Page 20 ---
Rhine River patrol craft of US Navy near Biebrich, Germany

Navy’s Role

HY IS a Navy officer director of

Military Government for one of
the states of the US Zone? Why are
Navy planes flying the Berlin airlift?
What is the Navy's function in the
land occupation of Germany?—are
questions frequently asked by oc-
cupation personnel in Germany.

The answer to these apparent oc-
cupational oddities lies in the fact
that Germany was a sea power as
well as a land power. Although the
occupation and Military Government
of a defeated Germany is  fun-
damentally an Army responsibility,
there are a number of occupational
duties, policies and decisions con-
cerning which the cooperation and
assistance of the US Navy is es-
sential.

The National Security Act of 1947
does not assign functions in the Mil-
itary Government of Germany to the
US Navy; yet, as one of the three
armed services, it has participated in
the German occupation since April
1945, when the Naval Advanced Base
in Bremerhaven was established to
board, disarm and guard all German
naval and merchant vessels in that
area. An integral part of this opera-
tion was the taking over of all Ger-
man coastal defenses and assistance
to the British in mine sweeping
Operations near the mouth of the
Weser River, on which Bremen and
Bremerhaven are located.

JULY 12, 1949

(US Navy photo)

— — in Occupation of Germany

Article

by Lt.Comdr.L. J. Meads, USN
Legal Officer
US Naval Advance Base
Bremerhaven

PERATING in Germany is not

new to the Navy. As part of the
wartime Army-Navy team whose
combat mission was to bridge the
Rhine in 1944, the Navy was Tespon-
sible for providing boats, together
with operating personnel for that
major operation. The Army was thus
ferried over one of the most difficult
"road blocks” of the war in equip-
ment of a sister service, manned by
sailors in olive drab uniforms.

By agreement between Prime
Minister Churchill and President
Roosevelt at the Quebec Conference,
the US enclave at Bremen was creat-
ed to provide the American Forces
with an outlet to the sea as a means
of supplying the US Zone of oc-
cupation.

Subsequently, the British turned
over to the Americans a part of the
British territory around the Weser
River, including the ports of Bremen
and Bremerhaven. The US Navy is
primarily engaged in operating the
necessary naval installations in the
Bremen Enclave and rendering logistic
support to the occupation forces, but
it is also coordinating with and as-

17

sisting Military Government in reach-
ing the proper decisions on a variety
of matters.

O CARRY out these functions the

Commander, US Naval Forces in
Germany, was appointed naval ad-
viser to the US Military Governor.
The present naval adviser is Rear
Admiral John Wilkes, who with his
Deputy Advisor, Captain J. P, Thew,
and staff, maintain offices in Berlin.
A small liaison group is located in
Frankfurt, while a naval adviser to
EUCOM is stationed at Heidelberg
for the purpose of maintaining close

contact between the Navy and
EUCOM Headquarters.

In addition to his other duties
Rear Admiral Wilkes is the US

member of the Tripartite Naval Com-
mission set up at the Potsdam Con-
ference. This commission governs the
disposal of the German naval fleet on
an equitable basis among England,
U.S.S.R. and the United States. The
work of this commission, after many
months of world wide census-taking,
is virtually completed.

In order that matters which affect
the mutual interests of the United
States and the United Kingdom may
be effectively acted upon, the naval
adviser to Military Government main-
tains liaison with the senior British
naval officer in the British Zone of

Germany. (Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Admiral Wilkes

Commander in Germany

HE NAVY has returned to the

German economy nearly 500 cap-
tured vessels, including 100 fishing
vessels. These fishing craft have
materially assisted in restoring the
fishing industry for which Bremer-
haven has been rightfully famous,
with the result that there is a con-
stant stream of vehicles laden with
fish leaving Bremerhaven to help feed
the people in other parts of Germany.

The original Navy mission in Ger-
many—disposition of captured Ger-
man vessels, toxic gasses and shore
installations, plus mine sweeping and
port operation—has been completed.
However, new problems continue to
arise.

For example, naval aviation was
called in to assist the Air Force in

Cooperating in “Operation Showers,”
US Army spring maneuvers in the US
Zone, this Navy motor speed Jaunch
patroled the Weser River near Bremer-
haven to guard against sabotage.

(US Navy photo)

Aide and Chief of Staff

Captain Thew

support of the Berlin population in
1948 under “Operation Vittles." The
unique aspect of this job is that the
naval air transport squadrons involved
are self-contained units. The vast
quantities of fuel required to operate
the airlift planes has imposed upon
the Navy tankers a heavy burden and
necessitated a shortening of ‘turn
around’ time at the ports of delivery
in order that schedules may be met.

Another new function of the Navy
in Germany is concerned with the
tapid economic recovery of the
western zones, an adjunct of which
has been a corresponding increase of
navigation hazards on the Rhine
River. To meet this situation the
naval adviser was directed to estab-
lish a Rhine River patrol in aid of
navigation,

With a 90 foot craft under the
command of Lt, Comdr, Nelson M.
Cooke, US Navy, the vanguard of a
naval unit was established at Schier-
stein, near Wiesbaden, early in Febru-
ary of this year. Additional craft
are being fitted for the task and soon
will be assigned to the unit. Surely no
member of these crews ever thought
he would have duty on the Rhine.

HE FAR-FLUNG interests of the

US Navy in Germany are not
immediately apparent, Few. persons
would imagine, for example, that an
incident reported briefly in a London
newspaper last February concerning
German fishermen being held in a
Polish port, was of direct concern to
the Navy and Military Government.
However, since two of these vessels
were of American registry, the matter
was within the scope of Navy interest
and a full report of the incident was
made to the Military Governor by

18

Commander Cooke

Rhine Patrol Commander

Captain Jeffs
OMGLB Director

his naval adviser when the crews
and vessels were finally released,

Naval forces in Germany are con-
cerned, too, with security aspects of
the occupation. During the zone
wide Army manoeuvres, “Operation
Showers” held in April, they partici-
pated as a supporting unit under
simulated war-time conditions in the
Bremen Enclave.

The Navy Department is conscious —
of its role in Military Government
and is anxious to be of assistance in
the share-the-work program which
was so effective in the earlier days of
actual combat. It answers the question
of why we find a naval officer, Capt.
Charles R, Jeffs, as state director of
OMG Bremen, administering a seg- —
ment of the US-occupied areas of
Germany, -++ END 7

Export-Import Insurance

German insurance companies, which ©
are duly .licensed under MG Law
No. 53, have been authorized to |
insure, in any currency, all risks
connected with western German —
exports and imports. This authoriza- —
tion is contained in MG Law No. 16,
“Certain Operations Abroad of Ger-
man Insurance Companies,’ and is
applicable to the Western Sectors of
Berlin as well,

The law is designed to facilitate
export trade and to increase, for the ©
use of the German economy, the
amount of foreign exchange resulting ~
therefrom. By the terms of the law,
German insurance companies are”
authorized to conclude whatever”
agency ‘arrangements with persons 7
domiciled outside of the western zones ~
or western sectors of Berlin may prove”
necessary for effecting this purpose.

JULY 12, 19499

--- Page 22 ---
Paris Conference
— — Results Show Progress of West Efforts

HE MEETINGS of the Council of

Foreign Ministers are not battles
of individual champions where par-
ticularly bright ideas are quoted or
sharp maneuvers count for very much.
It is not the personalities involved,
it is not the ability of the individuals
who represent countries which makes
a great deal of difference. I think
the heart of the matter is somewhere
else...

General Marshall, following his
return from the London Council of
Foreign Ministers meetings in De-
cember 1947, said that he did not
think that the Council of Foreign
Ministers would get much further
until there was some resolution of
the great problem of Europe which
was: Is Western Europe going to
recover and regain its strength or is
it not? General Marshall at that time
expressed that this would come about
and that we were going to help, He
mentioned the Soviet prediction that
it would not occur.

It is in the progress that has been
achieved in the restoration of Western
Europe that you should look for
explanation of what happened at
Paris. It has been the success of the
cooperative efforts in Western Europe
to which the United States has so
greatly contributed in the last two
years that made this meeting of the
Council of Foreign Ministers different
from its predecessors. It was those
programs, plus the magnificent success,
courage and performance of the air-
lift which, in the first place, brought
about the lifting of the blockade, and
in the second place, brought about

the situation which emerged from
Paris,

N OTHER words, these from now

on seem to me to be like the steam
gauge on a boiler. They indicate the
pressure which has. been built up.
They indicate the various gains or
losses in position which have taken
Place between the meetings, and
I think that the record of this con-
ference is that the position of the
West has grown greatly in strength,
and that the position of the Soviet
Union in regard to the struggle for
the soul of Europe has changed from
the offensive to the defensive.

JULY 12, 1949

Statement
ty Dean Acheson
US Secretary of State

This article is an abridged text of
the transcribed remarks by Secretary
Acheson at his first press conference in
Washington on June 23 following his
return from the conference of the
Council of Foreign Ministers in Paris.
Reviews of the previous CFM meetings
in Moscow and London are listed in the
bibliography on page 24.

The significance of this is very
important in explaining why no
agreement was possible about Ger-
many. Being on the defensive, the
Soviet Union was forced to take, or
did take at any rate, the attitude that
it would not relax its hold in any
way whatever upon any area which
it controlled in Germany. It would
not relax its hold on the eastern zone
of Germany or on the eastern sector
of Berlin, That fact, in and of itself,
made any agreement impossible be-
cause the whole essence of the
Western program was to belay this
iron grip on military governrnent
from the Western Zones of Germany.

He WHOLE program of the West-
em Powers has been to return

as quickly as was safe responsibility
to the Germans, responsibility for

conducting their own affairs under-

a system which guaranteed the basic
human freedom and contained the
safeguard necessary for the security
of Europe and of the world.

That was a program from which
we could not retreat one single
solitary inch. We did not. We never
could consider it and no agreement
was possible on the basis of our
retreating from that position.

The Soviet Union was unable to
accept that position because that
meant releasing their hold upon what
they had. It meant that they could no
longer carry on this sovietization, this
domination of the life of Germany
which they controlled. To do so they
would have to give, as we have
given, the Germans a large voice in
the conduct of their own affairs. That
the Soviets were apparently afraid

19.

to do, They knew that if they did
that, they would no longer be able to
control what they now hold in
Germany. .

That, I think, is the heart of the
whole conference so far as Germany
is concerned and it is a very sig-
nificant fact. It indicated that in the
West we are not on the defensive.
We feel that strength is returning,
that recovery is coming. We are
willing to say to the Germans, “You
must take responsibility in your own
country, and we want to bring you
into the life of free Europe, we hope,
before long, as equals.”

The Russians cannot say that. They
dare not say that, because if they
relax their hold upon the eastern
Germans, they know that they will
be no longer able to control that area.
That is one of the central things
which I wanted to bring up, so that,
as I say, as a result of that, we
refused to make any concessions on
fundamental principles.

E ARE going forward with our

program without any hesitation
of any sort. Not the slightest delay
has been introduced into our program
in any way whatever, and the pro-
gram is in better shape today than
it ever was before. Now that is a
negative result from Paris but it is
an important one.

So far as the modus vivendi regard-
ing German is concerned, that is a
very modest document. The import-
ance of the conference is not in that.
It is what I have been talking about.
It is in what did not happen rather
than in what did happen. The modus
vivendi relaxes the tension in Ger-
many. It establishes very clearly that
the blockade is not to be resumed.
Now, don't think that I am naive
enough to believe that simply because
it has been agreed in the modus vi-
vendi that it would not be reimposed;
that it, in fact, would not be reim-
posed if conditions seemed to warrant
that action as a successful operation
to the Russians.

The point is that having considered
all the matters which in the past have
been given as reasons for imposing
the blockade, the currency reform, the

(Continued -on page 32)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
GERMANY AND THE FOREIGN MINISTERS

Results Described as Limited but Potentially Useful with Gradual
Progress Toward Solution of Unification Question Appearing Possible

N RESPECT to German affairs,
the results of the Conference of
Foreign Ministers may fairly be de-
scribed as limited but potentially
useful. The problems of German
economics and political unification
and of Berlin remain unsettled, as the
ministers’ communique frankly states.
At the same time, the possibilities
for gradual but real progress toward
their solution have been enlarged.
Turning first to the limitation of
the Foreign Ministers’ communique,
we must note that, as President
Truman declared, the attitude of the
Soviet Union made immediate steps
toward German unification impossible.
The Western Powers were prepared
to cooperate in “a constructive
program which would meet the re-
quirements for all Germany." They
were not prepared to sacrifice the
democratic reconstruction already
achieved iin the major part of Ger-
many for a sham political unification.
When the Soviet representative
could offer nothing more than a
return to the Four Power admini-
strative system of 1945—a system
which his own government had made
unworkable by constant use of the
veto and which was identified not
with unity but with. disunity—it was
obvious that the people of Eastern
Germany were not yet to be allowed
the freedoms and material advantages
of the citizens of Western Germany.

N THIS SCORE the Western
Powers, unlike the Soviet spokes-
men in Germany, are by no means
satisfied with the results of the con-
ference, for it was and is their fixed
objective to see these freedoms and

material advantages extended to all

Germany.

Nor did the Paris conference pro-
duce a satisfactory settlement of the
Berlin question. Here again the
Soviet representative offered only a
backward-looking arrangement for
Four-Power supervision under which
his government would have been able
to block almost any measure of the
legally-elected municipal authorities.

Since no reasonable basis could be
found for unified administration in
either Berlin or Germany as a whole,
the Foreign Ministers were also un-
able to reestablish a single Ger-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Digest
of OMGUS Broadcast

on German Radios

man currency. This is the third con-
spicuous limitation in the results of
their meeting,

UT RECOGNITION of these

negative aspects of the con-
ference should not prevent us from
examining the possibilities inherent
in the provisions of the Foreign
Ministers’ statement.

Omitting the very significant ad-
vance made in the negotiation of a
peace treaty for Austria, there is,
first, the contrast between the out-
come of this conference and the end
of the last previous meeting of the
foreign ministers at London in De-
cember 1948. Then, there was a com-
plete standstill, with no arrangement
for future meetings, \

This time, the ministers agreed
that during the next session of the
General Assembly of the United
Nations, in September of this year,
their representatives will consult on
a future meeting of the Foreign
Ministers on the problems of Ger-
many. This provision, as President
Truman has pointed out, leaves the
door open to future efforts for a
comprehensive peace settlement.

That possibility is reinforced, also,
by the Four Powers’ decision to try
to “mitigate the effects of the present
administrative division of Germany
and of Berlin" by consulting together
in Berlin during the interval before
the next session of the Council of
Foreign Ministers. If this agreement
does nothing else, it at least helps
to relieve some of the tensions
created by Soviet policy in Germany.

N THE SECOND place, the com-

munique offers hope to Berliners
that their contacts with the West
may be restored and improved. The
Soviet Union has committed itself to
assisting in making possible the
normal life of the city. The Western
Powers, like the people of Berlin,
will wait to see to what extent this
promise will be carried out. But
certainly the ministers’ communique
makes a reimposition of the Soviet
blockade less probable,

20

The third and most important of
the more positive provisions of the
communique may result in improved
trade and communications not only
between Berlin and the West, but
between the western and eastern
zones. In paragraph five of the
foreign ministers’ statement the
Soviet Union accepts specific obligation
to “take measures necessary to insure
the normal functioning and utilization
of rail, water and road transport" for
the movement of persons and goods

between the western and eastern
zones,
Obviously, concrete results will

depend upon the Soviet Union's
readiness to interpret this decision
constructively. The obligation to do
so is clear. Assuming a genuinely
cooperative Soviet attitude in this
respect, the initiative of the German
economic authorities, as provided for
in the ministers’ statement, may bring
about desirable arrangements for the
exchange of goods between East and
West Germany.

Trade Union Property

The return of former trade union
property to US Zone trade unions was
facilitated by an amendment to MG
Law No. 59, “Restitution of Identi-
fiable Property,” designed to enable
trade unions and other organizations
in the US Zone to assert restitution
claims without appointment as suc-
cessor organizations by Military
Government.

Under the amendment, a juridical
or unincorporated association, other
than a successor organization so
appointed by Military Government,
shall be deemed a successor to organ-
izations dissolved under the Nazi
regime for political or similar reasons
where it appears equitable in view of
all the circumstances, The amendment
was retroactive to Nov. 10, 1947, the
effective date of Law No. 59.

Funds for Housing Program
The Bipartite Board agreed to au-
thorize the release of DM 20,000,000
($6,000,000) from STEG funds for
the housing construction program at
Munich for Air Corps dependents.

JULY 12, 1949

--- Page 24 ---
High Commission Charter

— — Text of Tripartite Document

Charter for the US-British-French High

Commission for Germany, ‘made public
June 1929 in Washington, London and Paris,
spells out in detail how the three-power control
commission will operate. The basic principles
for the commission were previously announced
after talks in April among US Secretary of State
Acheson, British Foreign Secretary Bevin and
French Foreign Minister Schuman.

The Charter, in the main a technical docu-
ment, was signed in Paris June 20 by Mr.
Acheson, Mr. Bevin and Mr. Schuman, the US
State Department disclosed. This was the day
the Big-Four Council of Foreign Ministers ad-
journed, the three Western Powers-and the
Soviet Union failing to agree on a basis for
German unity (see Mr. Acheson's statement on
page 19).

T WAS explained in Washington that the

High Commission Charter, like the previously
announced new Occupation Statute for West
Germany, will go into effect with the new
Federal Republic of Germany, probably in
September.

Mr. John J. McCloy, who will be the US High
Commissioner, arrived in Germany July 2. In
the interim before the High Commission comes
into formal being, Mr. McCloy will act as US
Military Governor in Germany.

Military Government, as such, however, will
be terminated when the German government
takes effect, the tripartite High Commission

I all authority with
of Germany or over
authority
vested in or exercised by the respect-

control

Establishment of Allied High Com-
governmental

mission and Transfer of Control
1, An Allied High Commission

then becoming the supreme authority in the
western zones of Germany. Occupation forces
will be under the respective military com-
manders.

The Commission - will include an Allied
council composed of the three civilian high
commissioners, various: committees and an
Allied general secretariat. The decisions of the
commission in most matters will be by majority
vote.

S FOR the western sectors of Berlin, not

included in the new German state, the
western commanders there will function under
the Allied Council. A ‘‘Little Occupation Statute”
for West Berlin was issued May 14.

At the recent CFM meeting in Paris, the
Western Powers proposed that the Soviet Zone
and the western zones be joined on the basis
of the constitution adopted at Bonn, with free
elections and guarantees of civil rights. The
Soviet Union rejected this, calling for restoration
of Four-Power controls with a veto right on all
matters.

The Soviet proposal was turned down by the
Western Powers as a return to paralysis in Ger-
many. The Western Powers said they could not
agree to cancel the progress already made by
the West Germans toward democratic self-
government and economic recovery.

Text of the Charter of the Allied High Com-
mission for Germany follows.

respect to the ments shall remain with the respect-
any ive commanders of the forces of
occupation in such zone.

4. Legislation of the occupation

thereof,

(hereinafter referred to as the High
Commission) is hereby established
for the exercise of supreme Allied
authority in the Federal Republic of
Germany. The High Commission
Shall be headed by three high com-
missioners, one designated by each
of the three powers signatory hereto.
_ 2. As from the date of the entry
into force of the Occupation Statute?

1 see “Basic Law" in Information Bulletin,
Issue No. 163, June 14, 1949,

2 see “Occupation Statute” in Information
Bulletin, (resume) Issue No. 160, May 3, 1949,
and (text) Issue No. 161, May 17, 1949,

JULY 12, 1949

ive commanders-in-chief of the forces
of occupation of the three powers
in Germany, from whatever source
derived and however exercised, will
be transferred to the three high
commissioners respectively to be
exercised in accordance with the
provisions hereof and of the Occu-
pation Statute.

3. The forces of occupation of the
three powers in Germany shall remain
stationed in their respective zones of
occupation, Command of the forces of
occupation in each zone and contro]
of their related military establish-

21

authorities enacted before the effect-
ive date of the Occupation Statute
shall remain in force until repealed
or amended or otherwise replaced as
provided in the Occupation Statute.

II
Functions of the High Commission
1, The High Commission shall exer-
cise control over the federal govern-
ment and the governments of its
constituent Laender (states), as pro-
vided in the Occupation Statute. In
the exercise of the powers reserved
to the occupation authorities under
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
said Statute, the High ‘Commission
shall reach its decisions in accord-
ance with the provisions of the
“Agreement as to Tripartite Controls"
among the three powers dated April 8,
1949,3 and attached hereto and made
part of this instrument as annex A.
These decisions shall constitute a
joint exercise of the authority of all
of the three high commissioners.

2. The High Commission shall act
only through the federal or appro-
priate Land (state) government except
where direct action or legislation by
the High Commission is necessary
or appropriate for the due exer-
cise of any of the powers reserved to
the occupation authorities under the
Occupation Statute.

3. The headquarters of the High Com-
mission shall be at the seat of the
German Federal] Government which
together with a surrounding area to
be defined will constitute a special
area directly under the High Com-
mission and excluded from any in-
dividual zone of occupation. The
necessary special arrangements in
connection with the definition and
administration of this area in as far
as they concern the Allies will be
determined subsequently by the High
Commission.

Il
Organization of the High Commission

1. The organization of the High 'Com-

mission at its headquarters shall be,

tripartite in character and_ shall
consist of:

a. an Allied Council (hereinafter re-
ferred to as “The Council") com-
posed of the three high commis-
sioners, Each high commissioner
shall nominate a deputy or permanent
representative who will ‘take his place
on the Council in his absence. The
deputies or permanent representatives
of the respective high commissioners
acting together may function as an
executive committee of the Council
if the Council so decides;

b. such committees or bodies as the
Council may from time to time
establish, These committees and
bodies shal] advise the Council in
their respective spheres and shall
exercise such executive functions as
the Council may delegate to them.
The number, functions and organiza-
tion of such committees or bodies
may be changed, adjusted or elim-
inated entirely by the Council in
the light of experience, Subject to
the above, in order to ensure contin-

3 see “High Commission Agreement” in

Information Bulletin, Issue No. 161, May 17,
1949,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

uity of operation the Council
initially shall be assisted by com-
mittees respectively for political
affairs, foreign trade and exchange,
finance, economics, law and by the
Military Security Board’, Each com-
mittee shall be assisted by such asso-
ciated staff as it may require and as
the Council approve;

c. An Allied General Secretariat.

2. The Council

The ‘Council shall constitute the
supreme authority of the High Com-
mission, The Council shall meet as
frequently as it considers necessary
and at any time upon request of any
of its members. The chairmanship of
the Council and its various commit-
tees shall be held in monthly ro-
tation by each of its members. The
Council shall fix the time and place
of its meetings and shall establish
appropriate rules and procedures for
the conduct of its business, Decisions
of the Council shall be reached in
accordance with annex A hereof,

3. Committees

The compostion of each committee
and its terms of reference shall be
fixed by the Council. Initially, such
committees, together with their re-
spective terms of reference, shall be
as follows:

a. the Political Affairs Committee,
consisting of the political advisers
to the respective high commissoners,
will be concerned with all political
and foreign affairs of the German
federal and Land (State) governments
coming within the competence of the
Council;

b. a Foreign Trade and Exchange
Comittee consisting of the respective
economic an finance advisers of each
of the high commissioners;

(i) the Committee shall observe the
economic, financial and foreign trade
policies of the German authorities
and shall advise the Council if such
policies or any action taken or pro-
posed to be taken pursuant thereto
is likely to have such adverse effect
on the foreign trade or foreign ex-
change resources of the German
government as is likely to increase
its need for external assistance;

(ii) the members of the Committee
shall automatically be members of the
board of directors of the Joint Ex-
port Import Agency (hereinafter re-
ferred to as “JEIA") and in conjunc-
tion with the other directors shall be
charged with the orderly liquidation
of JEIA at the earliest practicable
date. The Committee shall assume

4 see “Formula for Peace” in Information
Bulletin, Issue No. 161, May 17, 1949.

22

any control functions presently exer-
cised by JEIA as may warrant reten-
tion when the liquidation of JEIA is
completed; c

(iii) it is understood that the Ger-
man Federal Republic will become a
party to the convention for European
Economic ‘Cooperation and will exe-
cute a bilateral agreement with the
government of the United States, It
is further understood that thereafter
the functions of the High Commission
in respect of the matters referred to in
(i) will be appropriately modified;

c. the Economics Committee, con-
sisting of the economics advisors to
the respective high commissioners,
shall observe the general economic
policies of the German authorities
and shall advise the Council as to the
exercise of its powers in this con-
nection reserved under the Occupa-
tion Statute. The Committee shall
advise the Council on all matters
relating to the decartelization and de-
concentration of German industry;

d. the Finance Committee, consist-
ing of the finance advisers to the re-
spective high commissioners, shall
observe the general financial policies
of the German authorities, and shall
advise the Council as to the exercise
of its powers in this connection re-
served under the Occupation Statute.
To the extent necessary within the
limits of the provisions of the Occu-
pation Statute, the Finance Committee
shall succeed to and shall assume the
functions heretofore exercised by the
Allied Bank Commission.

e, the Law Committee, consisting of
the legal advisers to the respective
high commissioners, shall advise the
Council and its committees on all
legal and judicial affairs arising out
of the work of the High Commission;

f. the Military Security Board shall
deal with all matters of demilitari-
zation, disarmament, industrial prohi-
bitions and limitations, and scientific
research in accordance with its exist-
ing terms of reference.

4, Committee Staffs and Subordinate
Groups

a. within numerical limitations
established by the Council, each of
the committees designated pursuant
to paragraph 3 of this Article III shall
establish such tripartite subordinate
committees or other groups as may be
necessary to the performance of its
functions and as the Council] may
approve;

b. except as specifically otherwise
provided in sub-paragraph c of this
paragraph 4, personnel for such sub-
ordinate committees or groups shall
be appointed by each of the high com-

JULY 12, 1949

--- Page 26 ---
missioners on a basis of parity among
the three allied nations. They may
include military personnel. The num-
ber, functions and organization of
such subordinate committees or
groups may be changed, adjusted or
eliminated entirely by the Council in
the light of experience, Each sub-
ordinate committee or group shall be
answerable to the committee re-
sponsible for its creation and shall
report to the Council through such
committee, Each subordinate agency
shall be physically located at the
headquarters of the High Commission
except as may be otherwise deter-
mined by the Council;

c. the subordinate committees and
groups established pursuant to sub-
paragraph a of this paragraph 4 shall
include:

(i). Joint Export-Import Agency
which, until liquidated as provided
in sub-paragraph b of paragraph 3
thereof, shall function under its exist-
ing terms of reference with an inte-
grated staff and shall report to the
Committee on Foreign Trade and Ex-
change through its director general
who together with the deputy direc-
tors-general shall be members of the
board of directors of JEIA;

(ii) the Decartelization and Indus-
trial Deconcentration Group, the
Coal Control Group and the Steel Con-
trol Group, all of which shall report
through the Economics Committee;

(iii) the Combined Travel Board
which shall report through the Po-
litical Affairs Committee;

(iv) ‘Civil Aviation Board which
shall report as determined by the
Council;

(v) an Information and Cultural Af-
fairs Sub-Committee which shall re-
port through the Political Affairs Com-
mittee; .

(vi) a Sub-Committee on Foreign In-
terests which shall report as deter-
mined by the Council.

5. Allied General Secretariat

The High Commission shall be
served by a Tripartite General Se-
cretariat. The Secretariat will receive
and dispatch all communications to
or from the High Commission, pre-
Pare the agenda and materials for the
Meetings of the Council and shail
keep the minutes of their meetings.
The Secretariat or its appropriate
branches shall act as the channel of
Communication between the High
Commission and the agencies of the
federal government, and between the
Council and the several Land (State)
Commissioners with respect to mat-
ters affecting said Land (State) gov-

JULY 12, 1949

ernments, The Secretariat shall main-
tain the records of the High Commis-
sion and be responsible for such other
tasks as the Council may decide.

Iv
Land (State) Commissioners

1. All powers of the High Commis-
sion shall be uniformly exercised in
the constituent Laender (States) of the
federal republic, in accordance with
tripartite policies and the directions
of the Council. .

2, To achieve uniformity in the exer-
cise of its powers, the High Commis-
sion shall be represented at the seat
of government of each of the con-
stituent Laender by an Allied Land
commissioner who shall be solely re-
sponsible to the Council for ensuring
due compliance on the part of the
Land authorities with the Council's
decisions and directives, The Land:
commissioner shall report and he
solely responsible to the Council for
all matters of tripartite concern in
the Land and shall be the exclusive
channel of communication and liaison
between the Council and the Land
government with respect to such
matters.

3. In particular each Land commission-
er shall be responsible to the Council
for:

(a) initial consideration and prompt
transmittal to the Council of Land le-
gislation, together with his recom-
mendations thereon;

(b) observing and ensuring due com-
pliance on the part of the Land gov-
ernment with the provisions of the
federal and Land coastitutions, the
Occupation Statute and the laws of
the occupation authorities in force;

(c) providing information as requir-
ed by the Military Security Board
and giving all necessary assistance to
the inspectorate of the Military Se-
curity Board and such other bodies
as may be authorized by the Council;

(d) the preparation of such periodic

or special reports as the Council may
request.
4, Each Land commissioner and the
members of his staff shall be nationals
of the power in whose zone the Land
is situated, and shall be appointed by
and administratively responsible to
the high commissioner designated by
such power. Each Land commissioner
shall be accountable exclusively to
his high commissioner and shall be
his channel of communications and
liaison with the Land government with
respect to:

(a) all matters which are listed in
article V, paragraph 2;

23

(b) conduct of all relationships
between the forces of occupation sta-
tioned in the Land and the govern-
mental agencies thereof except to
the extent that direct communications
and relations may be authorized by
him.

5. Each high commissioner shall
designate an observer together with
a small personal staff to be agreed
in each case by the high commissioh-
ers cercerned, to each of the Land
commissioners outside of his own
zone for purposes of consultation and
information,

Vv
Individual Responsibilities of the High
Commissioners

1. Each high commissioner shall main-
tain at the seat of government of
each of the Laender in his zone a Land
commissioner with the minimum staff
and facilities required for the pur-
poses set forth in articles IV and V
hereof. He shall ensure the due im-
plementation by each of said Land
commissioners of the decisions and
directions of the Council. He shall
also ensure that all powers of the
High ‘Commission are uniformly exer-
cised within said Laender in accord-
ance with tripartite policy and the
decisions of the Council.

2. Each high commissioner shall be
responsible to his government with
respect to the Laender of his zone -
for the matters in fields reserved to
occupation authorities listed below.
Nevertheless so far as possible, he
shall coordinate the general policies
which he may pursue in those fields
with those of the other high commis-
sioners and exercise these powers in
accordance with such tripartite legis-
lation or policies as the Council may
adopt:

(a) maintenance of law and order if
the responsible German authorities
are unable to do so; :

(b) ensuring the protection, prestige,
security and immunities of the Allied
forces of occupation, of the Allied
occupation authorities, their depen-
dents, employees and official repre-
sentatives;

(c) the delivery of reparations and
testitutable property;

(d) care and administration of dis-
placed persons;

(e) the disposition of war criminals;

(i) administration of justice in cases
falling within the jurisdiction of
Allied courts;

(g) control of the care and treat-
ment in German prisons of persons
charged before or sentenced by the

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
courts or tribunals of the occupation
authorities, over the carrying out of
sentences imposed on them and over
questions of amnesty, pardon or re-
lease in relation to them,

3. Each high commissioner shall be in-
dividually responsible for the formu-
lation annually, in accordance with
tripartite policies and criteria, of a
budget of occupation costs and other
requirements within his zone. Such bud-
get shall be formulated and submitted
to the Council, on a date to be deter-
mined by it, for consideration and
approval by the Council and for con-
solidation in a total budget of the oc-
cupation authorities for transmission
to the German government. Each high’
commissioner shall be responsible to
the Council for control of the ap-
proved budget for his zone in accord-
ance with accounting standards and
procedures established by the
Council,

VI
Decisions of the Council

1, Formal decisions and directions of
the Council affecting the federal
government or any agency thereof
shall be in writing and shall be com-
municated to the chancellor by or on
behalf of the Council.

2. Formal communications involving
matters of lesser import or of a rou-
tine character may be addressed to the
minister concerned by the appro-
priate organ of the Council.

*K aK

Bibliography of

The Allied Control Commission, review of
background and functions, No. 13, Oct. 20, 1945.

Allied Controls in Austria, review by A.G.
Sims on operation of High Commission in
Austria, No. 148, Nov. 16, 1948.

American Policy for Occupation, reorientation
review by Col. William Whipple, secretary
general, OMGUS, No. 54, Aug. 12, 1946.

Basic Law, summary and text of West German
document adopted by the Constituent
Assembly, with Military Governors’ clarifi-
cations, No. 163, June 14, 1949,

The Bizonal Economic Administration,
lative review, No. 143, Sept. 7, 1948,

Bizonal Organization, review and summary by
Stephen L. Freeland, chief, PIO, BICO,
No. 108, Sept. 1,- 1947.

Constitution-Making at Bonn, review by
John Elliot, chief, Political Activities Branch,
CAD, OMGUS, . of German Constituent
Assembly, No. 145, Oct. 5, 1948.

Formula for Peace, review by Maj. Gen. James
P. Hodges of Military Security Board,
No. 161, May 17, 1949.

Four-Power Government, review of Allied
Control Authority (in MG Series), No. 78,
Feb. 3, 1947.

German Constitutions, summary of documents
adopted by all states in Germany, No. 130,
March 9, 1948,

High Commission Agreement, resume and text
of tripartite agreement, No. 161, May 17, 1949,

Interzonal Economic Unity Proposal Presented
by US, summary of invitations by Secretary
of States James F, Byrnes and General

cumu-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

3. Formal decisions or directions of
the Council affecting a Land govern-
ment or any agency thereof shall be
in writing and shall be communicated
to its minister president through the
Land commissioner, in the name of
the Council.

4. Formal decisions of the Council
shall be recorded in an official gazette
Maintained by the High Commission
at the Allied seat of contro] in Ger-
many which shall be published in the
English, French and German _lan-
guages. Publication of any such de-
cision in the official gazette of the
High Commission shall be conclusive
evidence that the recorded action or
decision was taken pursuant to the

powers vested in the occupation
authorities under the Occupation
Statute.

vit

International Authority for the Ruhr

The High Commission shall take all
necessary steps to give effect to ar-
ticle 22 of the agreement establishing
the International Authority for the
Ruhr of April 28, 19455.

Vill
Foreign Missions in Germany

The necessary liaison with the gov-
ernments of other nations especially
interested will be ensured by the

5 see “Ruhr Authority” (draft) in Informa-
tion Bulletin, Issue No, 153, Jan. 25, 1949,

* *K
Development of

Joseph T. McNarney, US Military Governor,
for economic fusion seeking German unity,
No. 52, July 29, 1946.

The Land (state) Constitutions, analysis by
Richard M. Scammon, chief of Political
Activities Branch, CAD, OMGUS, on state
referenda, No. 68, Nov. 18, 1946.

The Land (state) Government:
German governmental activities
Series), No. 78, Feb. 3, 1947.

London Conference, summary by John Elliot,
consultant, CAD, OMGUS, of CFM meeting,
No. 127, Jan. 27, 1948.

Meaning of Six-Power Agreement, _inter-
pretation by John Elliot, chief of Political
Activities Branch, CAD, OMGUS, of London
meeting for merging western Germany,
No. 138, June 29, 1948.

Message from General Eisenhower, letter by
US Military Governor to German people
advising requisites for regaining self-govern-
ment, No. 3, Aug. 11, 1945. .

Moscow Conference, address by US Secretary
of State George C. Marshall summarizing
CEM meeting, No. 92, May 12, 1947.

Occupation Statute, resume from OMGUS
broadcast, No. 160, May 3, 1949.

Occupation Statute for West Germany, Text of,
No. 161, May 17, 1949. .

Plan Submitted for Federal Setup, principles
to be included in West German Basic Law,
No. 161, May 17, 1949.

The Potsdam Conference Statement, text of
Potsdam Agreement, No. 3, Aug. 11, 1945.

Potsdam to Bonn, chronology of political deve-

of
MG

review
(in

24

appointment by such governments of
appropriate missions to the Council
of the High Commission having ac-
cess, by procedures to be determined
to its subordinate bodies, and to the
German government.

IX

United Nations Organizations in
Germany

United Nations organizations and
specialized agencies may operate in
the Federal Republic of Germany on
such terms as may be agreed by the
Council.

x
Official Languages

The official languages of the High
Commission shall be English and
French, Authoritative German texts
of documents shall be provided as
necessary.

XI

In Witness Whereof, the foregoing
agreement has been duly executed
by the respective representatives
thereunto duly authorized of the
Governments of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain, the United States of
America and the Republic of France,
in triplicate in the French and English
languages, each text being equally
authentic and shall come into effect
on the date of the entry into force of
the Occupation Statute. --END

aK *K
German Unity |

lopment in Germany, No. 161, May 17, 1949.

Progress of Self-Government, review by Lt.
Gem. Lucius D. Clay, deputy military
governor, No. 77, Jan. 27, 1947,

Prohibited and Limited Industry is Defined,
resume and text of tripartite agreement,
No. 160, May 3, 1949,

Quadripartite Rupture in Berlin, digest from
Military Governor's Monthly Report, No. 135,
May 18, 1948, ;

Reparations Revision, summary of tripartite
agreement, No. 160, May 3, 1949.

Revised Plan of Level of Industry in US/UK
Zones, No. 109, Sept. 8, 1947.

Ruhr Authority, summary of official announce-
ments, No. 153, Jan. 25, 1949,

Seven Basic Points Listed for West German
Constitution, Na. 150, Dec. 14, 1948.
US Blames Soviets for ACC Impasse, digest
from Military Governor's Monthly Report

No, 134, May 4, 1948.

The US Economic Policy in Germany, statement
by Secretary of State James F, Byrnes and
instruction by US State Department, No. 24,
Jan. 12, 1946.

US Group to Plan for Tripartite MG, No. 13%
July 13, 1948.

US Policy in Germany,
State-War-Navy Departments, No. 102,
1947,

US Policy in Germany, address by Secretaty
of State Dean Acheson, No. 162, May 31, 1949

We Want a Lasting Peace, text of speech bY
Secretary of State James F. Byrnes at Stutt-
gart, No. 59, Sept. 19, 1946. 4

text of directive from
July 2,

JULY 12, 1949

--- Page 28 ---
Tax Reform

— — Bizonal Income Levies Adjusted

HE BIZONAL Economic Council
Ordinance No. 95, “(Second) Or-
dinance on the Provisional Revision
of Tax Legislation," was approved
by the Bipartite Board after as-
surance from the German authorities
that they did not contemplate further
tax revisions before the formation of
a western German government. The
background of the ordinance ante-
dates monetary reform of June 20, 1948.
The German Bizonal Economic
Council had made proposals in May
1948 for considerable reductions in
the principal taxes, the most impor-
tant relating to the income tax, in
regard to which the German authori-
ties wished to make an all-round
reduction in rates at that time. Mili-
tary Government considered, however,
that the proposed reductions might
be too sweeping. On all sides the
desirability of uniformity of taxation
throughout the three western zones
was recognized.

Finally a compromise in rate
reduction, which also achieved uni-
formity, resulted in US and British
Military Government Law No. 64,
“Provisional Revision of Tax Legis-
lation,” of June 20, 1948. Similar
laws were passed by the states of
the French Zone, This law brought
into force new tax tables which,
although they represented a con-
siderable relief, did not go so far as
the German authorities had wished.

S SOON as the transition period

immediately following monetary
teform had ended, the German
authorities again pressed for further
income tax reductions. Two main
arguments were advanced by them.
The first was that the rate of tax
on the middle and higher income
groups was still so great that it
encouraged tax evasion.

It was argued that if a business-
man declared and paid a tax on his
actual profits, the amount remaining
to him would not be sufficient to
Provide for maintenance and at the
same time to finance replacements
of business assets which had been
lost as a result of the war or which
had become unserviceable in the nor-
mal course of business.

Moreover, it was emphasized as a
Second point that the success of the
European Recovery Program (ERP)

JULY 12, 1949

Excerpt

from Monthly Report, No. 46
of the US Military Governor

in the Bizonal Area made it essential
that capital for medium- and long-
term investment in reconstruction be
made available by appropriate
taxation concessions.

The German Bizonal Department
for Finance, therefore, set out to
prepare an ordinance which would
provide sufficient tax relief to im-
prove the standard of tax-honesty
and would probably stimulate sav-
ing. The first draft of this ordinance,
which was submitted in November
1948, provided for an _ all-round
reduction in tax rates to the levels
which had been proposed, but only
partially approved, in May 1948, and
for a form of tax amnesty for tax
offenses committed before, and at
the time of, monetary reform.

As these proposals were not ac-
ceptable to Military Government or
to certain Germain elements, a series
of re-drafts was made, in the course
of which the amnesty proposals and
those for a general reduction in tax
rates were abandoned. The ordinance
which was finally passed by the
Economic Council in March 1949
bore little resemblance to the
original draft. It consisted of a series
of specific income tax concessions
which, in many cases, are extensions
of the concessions given in MG Law
No. 64.

HE PRESURRENDER German law

contains a provision for writing
of normal depreciation in the annual
balance sheets of businesses. Law
No. 64 introduced for the first time
the principle of provision for the
writing off of a special initial al-
lowance with respect to replace-
ments of business assets made after
Dec. 31, 1948, a concession modeled
on certain provisions of the British
Finance Act of 1945.

This principle was extended by
Economic Council Ordinance No. 95,
which permits allowances to be
granted with respect to such business
assets as plant equipment (a maximum
of 50 percent in the first two years),
dwelling houses (10 percent in each
of the first two years), ships (15 per-

25

cent in each of the first two years), and
factory and farm buildings (10 per-
cent in each of the first two years).
Furthermore, grants or non-interest-
bearing loans made to various public
and private housing organizations
are to be allowed as a deduction in
arriving at the profit which is sub-
ject to tax.

Law No.64 extended the allowances
granted for such categories of ex-
penditure as small savings; contri-
butions to charitable, religious and
scientific organizations; payments to
insurance and building societies; and
investments in cooperative societies
and other approved concerns.

The increased limits of such

. "special expenditure’’ were DM 600

($180 for a single man and DM 900
($270) for a married man, with further
increases for each dependent child.
If the expenditure under the head-
ings named exceeded these limits,
three-eighths of the excess was al-
lowed, subject to a ceiling of 15 per-
cent of the taxpayer's income or
DM _ 20,000 ($6,000), whichever
was less.

Ordinance No.95 extends all these
limits. In the case of a single man,
complete relief is given on DM 800
($240) instead of DM 600; in the case
of a married man, on DM 1,200 ($360)
instead of DM 900, and so on, On
expenditure in excess of these limits
the proportion to be exempted is
increased from three-eighths to one-
half, and the ceiling from DM 20,000
to DM 30,000 ($9,000). Furthermore,
in the case of taxpayers 50 years of
age and upward, their time for saving
being limited, these limits are
doubled.

NOTHER existing tax provision
gave relief to the extent of
50 percent of the retained profits of
a business, subject to the proviso
that the retained portion concerned
must not exceed 10 percent of the
aggregate profits. Ordinance No. 95
raised this ceiling to 15 percent.
One of the anomalies in the old
German income tax law, as amended
by Law No.64, was that the aggregate
amount of income and property taxes
might—in the case of very wealthy
taxpayers—exceed 100 percent of their
incomes. By making property tax a
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
deduction in computing income tax
assessments, Ordinance No. 95
removes this anomaly.

The most novel provision in Or-
dinance No. 95 is that by which
special relief from the application of
the higher tax brackets is given,
provided that profits are not spent.
This provision was prompted largely
by the disparity of the treatment for-
merly accorded to the owner of an
incorporated business, as compared
with that given the “one man”
G.m.b.H. (private company).

Whereas companies (corporations)
are taxed at the uniform rate of
50 percent, the owner of an unincor-
porated business was charged on a
progressive scale which, in the case
of an income of about DM 30,000
($9,000) gives an average rate of
about 50 percent. Any surplus above
this limit was, however, taxed at
rates ranging from 78 to 95 percent.

Ordinance No.95 gives a taxpayer
who owns a business the option of
paying at 50 percent only on his
total income, provided that he com-
plies with two conditions: (1) he must
restrict his drawings for personal
consumption to DM 15,000 ($4,500)
this being DM 30,000 less the tax);
and (2) he must earmark the balance
of retained profits and either use it
in his own business or invest it in
long-term securities such as those of
the Reconstruction Loan Corporation.

N VIEW of the fact that this pro-

vision might have led to the
plowing back of business profits into
economically undesirable enterprises
(for example, night clubs at the
present time), it is stipulated that
the earmarked profit which a tax-
payer may reinvest in his own
business is to be limited to that
proportion which is represented by
the value of the business assets
divided by the turnover. This in-
genious device weights the balance
in favor of productive concerns gene-
rally and heavy industry in par-
ticular where the greatest need for
replacement exists.

To illustrate the working of this
provision, the following example is
given of the case of a private
business earning an annual profit of
DM 80,000 ($24,000):

Law Ord.
No. 64 No. 95
Total Profit DM 80,000 DM 80,009
Tax Payable 57,600 40,000
Net Balance 22,400 40,000
Compulsorily Retained Nil 25,000
Maximum Personal
Drawings 22,400 15,000

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A minor relief, which also has as
its origin an attempt to alleviate the
steepness of the progressive scale,
consists in a concession to profes-
sional men and employees who
derive a subsidiary income from
some scientific, literary or artistic
source, as, for example, lecture fees.
They are to be charged on this in-
come at a special rate, which may
vary from 10 to 40 percent according
to circumstances.

HE SAME motive—the desire to
minimize the deterrent effect of
the progressive scale—has led to the
almost complete exemption from
taxation of overtime pay. Where
more than normal hours are worked
the extra pay has two elements—the
additional pay on a normal time
basis, and the further addition in pay
derived from higher time rates, Or-
dinance No. 95 provides that the first
of these elements shall be taxed at
five percent only, and that the second
shall be tax free, Furthermore, Sun-
day, holiday and night work are
completely exempted from tax. Thus
wage and salary earners are given a
substantial tax relief.
Most of the other reliefs operate
in favor of the businessman, as it is

from him that the greatest contri-
bution toward new capital formation
is to be expected, Law No.64 con-
tained a provision granting religious,
and scientific institutions. The limits
of this relief insofar as donations to
charitable and scientific organizations
are concerned are very slightly ex-
tended by Ordinance No. 95.

HE ORIGINAL plan of the Bi-

zonal Department for Finance.
was to link up an offer of an amnesty
on the one hand with the threat of:
more stringent penal provisions on
the other, The amnesty proposals
have been abandoned, but the appli-
cation of a more stringent penal pro-
cedure is provided for. .

The definition of what constitutes
“voluntary disclosure’ is slightly
extended in the taxpayer's favor.
Where a taxpayer was guilty of
irregularities in connection with the
special inventory taken at the time
of monetary reform, he may com-
pound for penalties against tax laws
and economic regulations by making
a “repentance payment” of 10 per-
cent of the underpaid taxes. There is
a slight increase in the rate of in-
terest charged on arrears. + END

Belgian Diamond Claim Clarified

US Military Government officials,
commenting on the allegations made
by the Federation of Belgian Diamond
Exchanges that Military Government
had refused to restitute enormous
quantities of polished and industrial
diamonds to Belgium, pointed out that
the statement made by the Federation
that the Belgian authorities had
established beyond doubt its right to
practically the whole of those proper-
ties is a misrepresentation of the
facts.

The Belgians failed to establish
identification which is required for
the restitution of such properties, said
Mr. Orren R. McJunkins, chief of the
Reparations and Restitution Branch,
Property DivisionJOMGUS, Mr. Mc-
Junkins asserted:

“In an attempt to obtain these pro-
perties the Belgian representatives
insisted that Military Government
permit Belgian-designated experts to
inspect these properties, but this
request was denied for obvious rea-
sons. Military Government engaged
an independent group of experts to
determine whether or not the dia-

26

monds could be identified and its
findings were that identification was
impossible.

“As a result of this determination,
no further consideration could be
given to the Belgian claim for the
diamonds. Had the Belgians been able
to identify these diamonds it would
have still been necessary for them to
establish the fact that these diamonds
were physically in Belgium at the
beginning of the German occupation
of that country.”

As to the 50,000 carats of polished
diamonds alleged by the Belgians to
have been seized by the Germans,
MG officials state that they have no
knowledge of the whereabouts of
these properties and so far have not
been provided with any information
that might lead to their recovery.

Military Government has worked
out a plan for disposal of the indus-
trial diamonds by sale for use in the
German economy in small lots to
prevent flooding the market, and at
such prices as are established for
current imports. Sale of those pro-
perties has already started.

JULY 12, 1949

--- Page 30 ---
Personnel Notes

Chief of BICO Group

Mr. Harold A. Taylor, economics
adviser for OMG Bavaria, was ap-
pointed chief of the Bipartite Com-
merce & Industry
Group in Frank-
furt. Mr, Taylor
has served in Ger-
many since June,
1945, when he was
assigned as a li-
eutenant colonel
to SHAEF's Pro-
duction Control
Office in  Frank-
furt. For the past
three years he was
in industrial and economics executive
and advisory capacities for Military
Government in Bavaria.

TAYLOR

* * *

Visit to Chemical Units

Maj. Gen. Alden H. Waitt, Chief of
the Chemical Corps, Department of
the Army, concluded his annual
technical visit to observe chemical
corps personnel and installations of
the US Army in Europe. General
Waitt said he was satisfied with the
progress made in EUCOM and praised
the EUCOM Chemical Corps Depot
at Hanau. He also visitid Wiesbaden
headquarters of the US Air Force in
Europe for an exchange of ideas with
Air Force chemical officers.

*K * *

OMGH Legal Adviser
Mr. E. K, Neumann, executive officer
of OMG Hesse, was appointed chief

of the Legal Di-
vision and legal
adviser to the

OMGH state direc-
tor, in addition ito
his present duties.

Mr. Neumann, a
former US Air
Force colonel, was
a member of the
New Mexico legis-
lature, chairman of
the State Police
Board, and_ state
attorney-general. He also served with
the federal government as associate
general counsel for the HOLC and
later as associate general counsel for
the FHLB Administration.

As chief of the Legal Division he

POTTER

JULY 12, 1949

succeeds Mr, Franklin J, Potter, who
left Military Government to take up
private law practice in Frankfurt, A
graduate of the University of Nebraska

and the University of Nebraska
School of Law, Mr. Potter was a
member of the California State

legislature before his enlistment in
the Army and subsequent assignment
as legal officer for OMG Hesse in
September, 1945.
* * *
Civil Education Consultant

Mrs. Robert Leonard of Washington,
D.C., consultant to OMGUS in the
techniques of civic education, arrived
in Germany for an extended visit.

Mrs. Leonard was

| formerly president

of the Washington

Branch of the Lea-

gue of Women Vo-
ters.

Her visit to Ger-
many is a follow
up on an earlier MG
exchange _— project
under which eight
German women lea-
ders were sent to
the United States to study community
and national programs for govern-
ment action. She will hold discussions
with these same German women and
other prominent leaders on furthering
the civic education program here.

MRS. LEONARD

* * *

Tour of Agriculture Facilities

Mr. A. G, Loveland, US undersecre-
tary of agriculture, made an inspection
tour of US Zone agricultural installa-
tions, accompanied by Mr. J. O.
Howard, chief of the Foreign Agricul-
tural Information Division, and Mr.
Edward Galo, associate chief of Inter-
national Resources Division of the
State Department, They had been
attending a meeting of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations in Paris,

* * *

Deputy ECA Representative

Mr. Milton Katz, formerly general
counsel in the European headquarters
of the Economic Cooperation Admi-
nistration, was named deputy US
special representative in Europe. Mr.
Katz succeeds Mr, William C. Foster,
who has been named deputy to ECA

27

Schmidt Photo from PIO OMGLB

EUCOM chief nurses met in Heidel-
berg to attend a conference designed
to coordinate professional and ad-
ministrative problems in US medical
installations in the US Zone.

Featured speakers were Col, Mary
G. Phillips (right) and Capt. Nellie
J. Dewitt (left), respective chiefs of
the Army and Navy Nurse Corps, who
discussed latest trends in nursing
techniques, Colonel Phillips and Cap-
tain Dewitt came to Heidelberg
June 17 after participating in the
International Council of Nurses at
Stockholm.

Also participating in the confer-
ence was Lt, Col. Louise M. Fitzger-
ald, EUCOM chief nurse (center),

Administrator Paul G. Hoffman in
Washington, The appointments of
Mr. Katz and Mr, Foster have been
confirmed by the United States
Senate.
* * *
Adviser on Publishing

Dean Vernon McKenzie, US author
and dean emeritus of the University
of Washington School of Journalism,
is in Germany for three months to
advise editors and publishers on US
newspaper methods and techniques.

The American adviser is the author
of a number of books on international
affairs, Among his works are “War
in Europe;" “They Call This Peace;”
“The Armament Road to Pea¢e;”
“Through Turbulent Years;" and
“Here Lies Goebbels.”

Ne tea

EUCOM Civilians Honored
Six EUCOM civilian employees
were honored with meritorious service
awards for outstanding performance
in their assigned work in the Euro-
pean Command, Those named were
Mr. Heinz Abersfeller of Chehallis
Wash.,; Mr. Claude Hart of Sandpoint,
Ida.; Mr. David I. Lippert of Los
Angeles, Calif.; Mr. Orin H. Tiedman
of Lake Mills, Iowa; Mr. Virgil R.
Walker of Minneapolis, Minn.; and
Mr. Russel L, Wise of ‘Chicago, Ill.
The meritorious civilian service
commendations are given in rec-
ognition of exceptional efficiency by
any employee of the US Forces,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Occupation Log

Diversified Diet

Germany is to receive her first
taste of bananas in more than ten
years as the result of a $30,000,000
trade agreement concluded with the
Republic of Colombia. In addition to
$3,000,000 worth of bananas, Colom-
bia is to export $4,000,000 worth of
coffee to Germany, an amount almost
equal to all coffee imports of the
Bizone during the past 12 months.
Other products which Colombia
proposes to ship to western Germany
include hides and skins, tobacco,
corn, rice and sugar.

In exchange, western Germany is
to export optical goods and in-
struments, machinery, iron and steel
products, chemicals, dyestuffs, phar-
maceuticals, vehicles, mining equip-
ment and other manufactured con-
sumer products. The agreement,
providing for $15,000,000 trade each
way, is post-war Germany's fourth
with a South American country.

Against False Ideologies

“We, the undersigned, students of
an American university (Purdue), in
the interest of better understanding
and friendlier relations between
nations, realize the great importance
of education in combating the evils
of ignorance and false ideologies
which permeate the world today.”

This letter, signed by 17 American
students, accompanied a gift box of
486 modern social science textbooks
donated to the students and faculty
of Bonn University to help alleviate
the shortage of up-to-date social
science study material.

Because the social sciences and
humanities under Hitler were dis-
couraged to the point that few text-
books existed for postwar German
universities, the book aid drive was
initiated by Mr. James R. Mitchell,
secondary education chief of OMG
Bremen, The letter from Purdue
added, “We know that studying
them will help German students to
understand us better and we trust
that the English language will offer
no great barriers for them."

Investment Impetus

The Frankfurt Stock Exchange is
booming again, showing its largest
gains since currency reform, accord-
ing to an OMG Hesse report.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Transactions totaling almost DM
3,500,000 ($1,050,000) June 8 on the
Hessian exchange topped last Oct-
ober’s peak by 15 percent, The new
interest was attributed to the lifting
of the Berlin blockade and the pub-
lishing of bizonal plans for long-term
investments in capital-starved in-
dustries. Great interest was also
manifested in enterprises located in
Berlin and the Russian Zone.

Traveling Salesmen

Four times as many western Berlin
businessmen traveled abroad during
the first five months of 1949 than
during any preceding five-months’
period since the end of the war.

During this five-month’ period 286
businessmen visited twenty-four dif-
ferent countries, principally Switzer-
land, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy,
Great Britain, and the United States.
Chief industries represented were
electrical, machine, fine mechanics
and optics, chemicals and phar-
maceuticals.

Matter of Fact

In response to a request from
the Bavarian parliament that more
barracks be released to house non-
German nationals living on the
Bavarian economy, OMG _ Director
Murray D. Van Wagoner told the
minister president that there had
been a steady decrease in the number
of displaced persons living in IRO
camps, as well as non-German
nationals living on the Bavarian
economy during the past six months.

Mr, Van Wagoner pointed out that
enough IRO facilities had already
been released to take care of these
non-German nationals, and “in this
respect, the request of the state
parliament had already been met.”
He quoted statistics furnished by
the Bavarian state statistical office
showing that the number of non-
Germans living on the German eco-
nomy had declined by 11,085 since
last September,

Hence, “the statement that the
problem of overcrowdedness is
Bavaria is being jeopartized by the
continuous influx of non-Germans is
not born out by these statistics,” Mr.
Van Wagoner said.

28

Public Opinion Institute

Representatives of many profes.
sions in Bavaria banded together in
mid-June to lay the groundwork for
a new public opinion institute
designed to provide accurate surveys
of the people's reactions to current
problems and actions of government,
labor, industry and other matters of
public in Bavaria.

“The institute would have to be
impartial] and non-political in its
management and operations,” said Mr.
Albert C. Schweizer, OMGB Civil Ad-
ministration Division director. He
added that some of the group had
been in America, England and other
democracies where they had seen for
themselves how public opinion can
and does mold the course taken by
the governments of these countries.

The new institute would perform a
valuable service by gathering accu-
Tate statistics on public opinion in
governmental matters, finding ways
to awaken and hold public interest
on matters of state, finding ways of
making public opinion effective in
government.

If a certain group wished to pe-
tition the government for a specific
action, it could first determine the
degree of public support for its pro-
posal through the public opinion in-
stitute. For example, labor union
could determine public reaction to a
proposed strike, or manufacturers
could obtain advance estimates of
public demand for a new product
through the proposed organization.

For Future Reference

Complete official records of the
Nuremberg war crimes trials are
available for study and reference at
13 libraries in the United States and
five in western Germany, Archives
of the Nuremberg Military Tribunals
are deposited with the Library of Con-
gress in Washington.

Duplicate copies are in the library
of the United Nations at Lake Success,
N. Y., the New York (City Public
Library, and in the libraries of 10 US
universities: the universities of Ar-
kansas, California, Georgia, North
Dakota, and Washington state; Duke
University, Harvard Law School, the
Hoover Library at Stanford Univer-
sity, the United States Military Acad-
emy at West Point, N. Y., and North-,
western University.

Court transcripts and all official doc-
uments in the German language are
available at the Universities of Hei-
delberg, Goettingen, Bonn and Frank-

JULY 12, 1949

a

{

--- Page 32 ---
furt, and in the Bavarian Department
of Justice at Munich,

Newspaper Circulation

News Interest—The Hessian tra-
dition that keeping up with the news
and working in the fields don’t mix
is going by the boards. It has been
customary for Hessian farmers to
cancel newspaper subscriptions with
the coming of the long summer days.

But this spring, for the first time
since newspapers have been published
in Hesse, there have been extremely
few cancellations, stated Mr. Vincent
©. Anderson, OMGH press chief, “in-
dicating a new interest on the part
of Hessian farmers in news, even
though long hours in the fields offer
little time for reading.”

Refugee Workshop

An apprentice workshop was de-
dicated by a refugee group at the
resettlement town of Heilsberg, near
Frankfurt, Built by the refugees,
the one-and-one-half story workshop
provides a training place for young
men in carpentry and cabinet making,
electrical installation, mechanics and
metal work, tailoring, shoe making
and repairing. The Heilsberg commu-
nity is planned eventually to house
5,000 citizens.

Press Properties

A newspaper leases review board,
created to act in cases involving
newspaper properties now leased to
US-licensed German publishers, will
be the sole and final authority in ad-
judicating petitions for relief from the
terms or conditions of any lease-con-
tract made under MG law by news-
paper property owners and the lessees
publishing US-licensed newspapers.
The board's authority covers both
mandatory and voluntary leases of
printing plants and other property
used in newspaper publishing.

Col. Gordon E. Textor, director of
OMGUS Information Services Divi-
Sion, said that establishment of the
teview board assures the existence of
an impartial authority, free from any
connection with present or former
newspaper interests, to resolve legiti-
mate grievances arising from changing
conditions in the economic or publish-
ing fields.

Board membership includes repre-
Sentatives of the Legal, Property, and
Information Services Divisions, ap-
Pointed for indefinite terms by the
deputy military governor,

JULY 12, 1949

Immigration Opportunity

A mission from the Republic of
Chile has arrived in the US Zone to
select worker families from among the
displaced persons population for im-
migration to Chile. The South Ame-
rican state is prepared to accept ap-
proximately 5,000. displaced persons
from Germany and Austria during the
next 10 months.

Headed by Mr. Manlie Fantinie-
Barbero, the selection mission plan-
ned to begin interviewing US Zone
candidates for immigration in dis-
placed persons camps in late June.
From Germany and Austria they will
select approximately 1,400 families of
skilled motor mechanics, diesel spe-
cialists, construction workers, drivers,
cooks, bakers, waiters, glass workers,

skilled and unskilled factory workers
and female domestic help.

Aside from other qualifications, the
head of the family must be at least
5 feet 8 inches tall to be admitted to
Chile under the immigration laws of
that country.

Job Improvement

The rising unemployment trend in
Hesse seems to have passed its peak,
according to Mr, Glenn Garrett,
OMGH manpower adviser. For the
first time this year, the number of
jobless Hessian workers decreased
during the last week in May. 101,197
Hessians were unemployed at the end
of May, which is 1,689 less than dur-
ing the middle of the month. Mr.
Garrett attributed the reduction to in-
creased employment of agricultural
workers in the North Hessian districts.

Pilot and crew together with Boeing technical observers will watch the per-
formance of this giant YC-97A, pictured here at Tempelhof Air Base, Berlin.
The plane, which has four engines, fully\reversible propellers and three cargo
loading doors, is a double decker capable of transporting 53,000 pounds at

300 miles per hour.

(US Army photo)

Bremen Women Open Exchange Shop

Bremen's first Woman's Exchange
Shop, a project of the German-Ameri-
can Women's Club of Bremen, was
opened recently as a manifestation of
the spirit of cooperation of the Ameri-
can women with the German women
of the Bremen community and as a
symbol of the women's determination
to work together on a German post-
war problem.

Many practical household items,
fine needlecraft and other artistic
home decorations are on display in
the new shop located in the Haus
des Reichs. In addition to the articles
on display, all types of needlework,
artistic handicraft or souvenirs may
be produced to buyers’ specification
by the approximately 200 Bremen

29

women specialists who have joined
the exchange shop.

In order to give these workers, as
well as all members of the Bremen
“Frauenkultur Club'' an increased
market for their fine handicraft pro-
ducts, the German-American Women's
Club voted two months ago to or-
ganize the shop for the sale of the
articles made by these people, many

of whom, though aged or infirm
would rather work than accept
charity.

A jury committee examines weekly
the samples submitted for sale in the
exchange shop in order to maintain
a high standard of excellence. Sales
prices are moderate because of the
non-profit aspect of the organization,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
US Press Comments

Paris Conference Editorials

HE RECENT Paris Conference of

the Council of Foreign Ministers
has drawn widespread public comment
in the United States, the concensus of
editorial and radio opinion being that,
although the conference achieved
little, it did serve to unveil what may
prove to be a more conciliatory atti-
tude on the part of the Soviet Union
in dealing with a strengthened western
world,

The Chicago Sun-Times said in
part: “The divisions between Russia
and the West did not disappear at
Paris. They will not vanish in the
immediate months to come. What did
happen is that the Big Four reestab-
lished the procedure of consultation
in efforts to reconcile their differ-
ences.

“Perhaps the most significant thing
about the Paris Conference is the fact
that it was held. Perhaps the next
most significant thing is that another
meeting is planned, probably this fall,
to renew the effort toward agreement
on Germany which was not possible
at this time...

“Without expecting the causes of
East-West rivalry to disappear we
can at least hope that the form in
which that rivalry expresses itself
may undergo a gradual change.”

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch:
“Something has been accomplished,
if only a little. And that little can
become the foundation for greater
achievements.

“For one thing the Berlin impasse
has been broken, A working agree-
ment has been reached which puts
more of the chores of municipal man-
agement on German shoulders, instead
of leaving them as subjects for inter-
national wrangles...

“In the long run, the understanding
on an Austrian treaty may prove
equally as important as the Berlin
agreement. Perhaps even more so. In
a sense, it is a more direct step toward
peace. The Russians did not insist on
Yugoslavia's territorial claims, Whe-
ther this was merely to teach Tito
a lesson, or whether it was a genuine
concession to international accord
will not matter too much if a treaty
is eventually signed.. The concession
of certain property rights to the Yugo-
slavs and the payment of $150,000,000

INFORMATION BULLETIN

to Moscow are somewhat disappoint-
ing, but they do not seem of sufficient
magnitude to turn into long festering
sores of recrimination...

“But there is no compulsion to take
the gloomiest possible views of the
matter. With a prudent regard for the
past it is possible to hope that peace
may be more readily achieved bit by
bit than by trying to remove all diffi-
culties with one lunge of the shovel.”

The New Orleans Times-Picayune:
“The four weeks of the parly were
not entirely wasted, Perhaps the last-
minute understandings regarding Ber-
lin and trade between the German
zones compensated for the false
hopes it raised of a complete and
final settlement...

“And perhaps the people who wish-
fully indulged those hopes placed so
little confidence therein that their de-
feat was thoroughly discounted. At
least, the Politburo’s performance
throughout the conference destroyed
all illusions regarding its intent and
policy and that should represent some
gain. Knowing precisely what they
are up against the democratic govern-
ments can go forward ‘with their plan
for the rehabilitation, economic re-
covery and gradual federation of
Europe’s free governments.”

The Pittsburgh Post Gazette: ‘The
outcome of the Big Four talks at
Paris is satisfactory only in a very
limited sense. At least, the foreign
ministers are not farther apart than
they were when the sessions began—
though that is equivalent to saying
that the immediate danger of war is
no greater. At most, some slight
progress may have been made toward
creating conditions which can conduce
to an eventual European settlement.

“The main issue was Germany.
Here, as expected, the ministers failed
completely to draft any terms for the
political or economic unity of that
country. But though the unnatural
divisions of Germany will continue
indefinitely, the Big Four have agreed
in principle to try to mitigate the
effects of divisions both in Germany
and in Berlin...

“The talks at Paris, in contrast to
the bitterness and harsh words of
previous Big Four meetings, were
generally in a polite and restricted
tone. It may be partly because the
ministers realize that the German

30

people, with their own particular aims
and desires, are now very much in
the picture. And, more certainly,
Russia may be convinced that her
bullying conference tactics of the
past are useless today against a West
strengthened by the Marshall Plan
and a common military alliance.”

The Cincinnati Times-Star: ‘‘Just
how much progress was made at Paris
will be clear three months from now,
If the Russians keep open the road
to Berlin, there will be a resumption
of trade between eastern and western
Germany. That would relieve inter-
national tension—and the strain on
the US Treasury, At any rate the
conferees have agreed not to disagree,
for a few months. Even that small
result would have been impossible
had not the Western Ministers known
what they wanted and stuck firmly
to it.”

The Cleveland Plain Dealer: ‘The
most optimistic among us will hardly
contend that the meeting of the Big
Four in Paris was conspicuously
successful from any point of view...

“While some points of difference
remain regarding a treaty with
Austria there are definite indications
that they will be resolved in the
early future and that the area of
agreement between the East and West
will be a little extended. Rumors have
been in circulation in Paris in the last
week or so that the Soviet Union is
not at all happy about conditions
which have developed in one or more
of the satellite states and is more
concerned at the moment with
measures that will prevent further
disintegration in its present sphere
of influence than in extending it
westward.”

The Birmingham Age Herald:
“Something has been achieved at
Paris although no broad agreement
on Germany was reached. Unification
and a peace treaty for that country
are not yet in sight. But a way of
carrying on what is described as @
sort of ‘live and let live’ arrangement
has been evolved by the four occu-
pying powers...

“Furthermore, it is announced that
agreement has been reached in prin-
ciple on an Austrian independence
treaty... Well, this advance may
not seem to get very far, considering
all the tremendous problems that
remain in the way of stabilizing
conditions of real peace, But when
regarded against the perils and
tensions that have prevailed, Teasons
may be found for substantial satis-
faction.”

SULY 12, 1949

--- Page 34 ---
Official Notices

Job Safety Training Program

A Job Safety Training Manual has been
published in German and Engfish texts for
training of US military personnel and civilian
employees of the Department of the Army in
the European Command.

This training manual was adapted from the
Safety Training Manual published for the
Chief of Ordnance ,Department of the Army.
Its value as a training manual has been
proved by results obtained through its prac-
tical integration with operating procedures,
The training manual is designed to furnish
supervisory personnel with the basic prin-
ciples of safety and to provide them with a
means of instructing their subordinate per-
sonnel in safe work methods.

It is desired that immediate action. be
taken to implement this training manual
within your command by appropriate courses
of instruction, An initial distribution of 15
copies each of the German and English texts
will be made under separate cover to each
command.. If any additional manuals are
required ,they will be requested from this
headquarters (Attention: Provost Marshall
Division).

It is further desired that this headquarters
be advised within two weeks after receipt
of this communication as to what action is
planned within each command to implement
an adequate Job Safety Training Program. —
From EUCOM Letter AG 729.3 PMG-AGO,
May 21.

Transit of War Materials

Pursuant to Allied Control Authority Law
No. 43 the entry of all war materials into
Germany for any purposes, including transit
to another country, is prohibited except as
licensed by any of the Military Governors.
Accordingly, German customs authorities
were instructed to prevent all shipments of
goods coming under this law, not properly
licensed, from entering the US Zone of Ger-
many across its international frontiers.

Such shipments as are properly declared
and in order, except for a license under
Allied Control Authority Law No. 43, are
to be returned to the country of origin.
Such shipments that are brought into Germany
in such a manner as to evade the prohibitions
of Allied Control Authority Law No. 43 are
to be impounded and the responsible parties
made subject to changes filed in a Military
Government court,

If investigation reveals that a shipment
entered through error of customs personnel
and that the owners and shippers acted in
good faith, the shipment may be released for
return to the country of origin.

Whenever a shipment of this nature is
impounded by German authorities a full
Teport is to be made through the state
Military Government to OMGUS. The shipper
or owner must arrange with Armed Forces
Division, OMGUS, for the Telease of this
shipment.

Import of Publications

Effective June 30, all imports of foreign
Publications are to be made under JEIA
Instruction No. 29, Previously, separate allo-
cations of funds were made to the JEIA

Fin offices for release only to business

Tbe ettade, associations, state ministries,
faraties and scientific institutions. Before
lunds “were released, the state economics

ministry had to approve the application,

This system was discontinued with the
sancellation of JEIA Instruction No. 14 on
June 30. Under the provisions of JEIA In-
struction No. 14, approximately $500,000 was
Spent in the past 12 months for the purchase
of foreign publications.

Under the procedure of Instruction No. 29,
an advisory committee on imports makes
weekly allocations of the fore:gn exchange

JULY 12, 1949

available for
man importers.
Some allocations for the purchase of foreign
publications have already been made by the
Import Advisory Committee, for the most
part for the use of German governmental
departments and certain libraries. So far.
the Import Advisory Committee has allocated
$450,000 for the import of books, newspapers,
periodicals and music into Western German:

specific imports through Ger-

Countries designated for purchase wer
Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzer-

land and the United Kingdom. — From JEIA
announcement.
Military Entry Permits

The Joint Export-Import Agency, to clarify
misunderstandings which have arisen regarding

the rules for issuance of military entry
permits, announced:
Military entry permits will be issued by

Military permit officers in foreign countries

.for a maximum of 60 days. Extensions may

be granted, for business men only, through
the Entry and Exit Branch Offices in_ state
capitals. Permits normally will be valid for
one journey except for business visitors who
may apply for repeated journeys.

EUCOM Import Message

Occupation personnel in Germany are not
authorized to import or to receive’ and retain,
any goods or commodities in excess of
reasonable personal needs, according to a
message sent to all European Command
major and subordinate commands by EUCOM
Headquarters.

The warning was issued in order to help
enforce existing regulations that prohibit or
limit EUCOM military and civilian personnel
from engaging in bartering or in unlicensed
business activities in Germany.

Shipments of goods or commodities in
excess of reasonable personal needs will be
impounded when they arrive in Germany, and
appropriate administrative or disciplinary
action taken, the message to EUCOM units
stated. — From EUCOM announcement.

Allied, Neutral Employees

Citizens of Allied or neutral countries
employed by US Army appropriated fund
agencies will be retained in their present
positions as long as the positions exist,
provided that their retention is desired by
the operating officer and the employee him-
self.

Under a Civilian Personnel policy an-
nounced last October, employment agreements
held by Allied and neutral personnel were
limited ‘to extensions of only one year. How-
ever, the ban on recruiting new employees
from allied or neutral countries for work
with the US Forces in EUCOM remains in
effect.

Only 500 of the more than 2000 Allied and
neutral civilians formerly employed by the
US Army in EUCOM still retain their jobs
Restrictions on their recruitment were an-
nounced in July, 1947. Subsequent policies
restricted the renewal of employment agree-
ments held by Allied and neutral personnel
to as little as four months.

An exception to the new EUCOM policy of
keeping Allied and neutral workers may be
made, if no other means exist for giving
employment to a US civilian of compirable
qualifications whose position with a EUCOM
agency has been declared surplus. In such
a case, the Allied or neutral civilian will be

separated from employment to create a
vacancy for the American, — From EUCOM
announcement.

Fishing Privileges
Fishing privileges for American and Allicd
personnel throughout the US Zone may be

31

obtained by paying a fee of one dollar at
the office of any German Post Office author-
ized to accept Military Payment Certificates
and then by presenting ‘the paid receipt to a
Liaison and Security Officer, who in turn
issues the license, Liaison’ and Secuzity
Officers are also authorized to issue hunting
licenses for which there is no charge, officials
said, — From BICO announcement.

“Off Limits“ Announcement

The Office of the Provost Marshall, EUCOM,
has advised that all JEIA hotels, clubs and
restaurants became “‘off limits'' to occupation
personnnel as of June 21, when they were
de-licensed by JEIA. Such _ establishments
have been excepted under EUCOM Hq. Circu-
lar No. 55, which puts German cafes, bars,
restaurants, clubs, hotels and taverns in the
US area of control in Germany “off limits’
to all US and Allied Military personnel and
US, Allied and neutral civilians accompany-
ing, or serving with the US Forces in Ger-
many. — From JEIA announcement.

Certificate of Birth Required

Action is being delayed on many petitions
for immigration visas filed by European
Command military and civilian personnel on
behalf of their alien wives because the
Americans have failed to submit satisfactory
evidence of their birth in the United States.

Immigration regulations require docu-
mentary evidence of the petitioner's birth
place to be filed with the visa petition. If his
birth certificate is not available, the petitioner
may submit a copy of his baptismal certificate
under the seal of a church, showing the
place of birth, provided that the baptism
took place within two months after the birth
of the subject. If neither of these documents
are available, the petitioner may file affidavits
from two US citizens who have personal
knowledge that the individual was ‘born in
the United States.

In lieu of the birth certificates, baptismal
certificate or affidavits, the petitioner may
Present a_ certified statement from his
Personnel officer that official military service
records show the presence of a birth
certificate in the individual's Personnel file
or indicate that the certificate was presented
at the time of enlistment or induction into
the US armed forces.

Immigration officials will not accept a
statement from the personnel officer certifying
only that the sponsor's records show a Hats
and place of birth in the United States -—
From EUCOM announcement,

Border Crossing Points

American, Allied and neutral personnel
must use authorized border crossing points
when entering or leaving the British Occu-
pation Zone of Germany across international
boundaries. The location of the crossing
points are as follows:

Germany-Belgium — Rail travelers will cross
the border between Aachen and Herbesthall
while motorists must check through at border
crossings between Aachen and Liege, or be-
tween Monschau and Eupe.

Germany-Denmark — Train passengers will
be checked at the border between Flensberg
and Padborg while those driving cars must
cross on the highway between Flensberg and
Krussa.

Germany-Holland — Train travelers must
cross between Bentheim and Oldenzaal, Emme-
tidi and Amheim, Krannenburg and’ Gross-
back, or Kaldenkirchen and Venlo. Persons
driving to the Netherlands through the Bri-
tish Zone should cross the border between
Bunde and Nieuweschans, Nordhorn and
Oldenzaal, Kleve and Nijmegen, Streelen and
Venlo, or Aachen and Maastricht.

US occupation personnel are subject to the
import and export restrictions of EUCOM
Headquarters when they cross the inter-
national boundary of the British or French
Occupation Zones, as well as the border
crossing and customs regulations of British
and French Occupation authorities, — From
EUCOM announcement.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
(Continued from page 19)

Paris Conference

London Agreement, the formation of
the West German government — all
those things — have been talked
about. At the end of four weeks of
talks, it is agreed that the blockade
shall not be reimposed, That is some-
thing, not much, but it is something.

HE OTHER nart of the communi-
que on Germany provides for
dealing with matters at administrative
levels, so that ordinary difficulties
and disputes may not rise to the
levels of governmental crises. The
high commissioners, at their level,
will deal with trade questions be-
tween East and West Germany if the
desire is expressed to expand those
trade relations. Those trade relations
will have to be expanded on a bal-
ancing and equal basis.
No one is going to extend credit
to anyone else, therefore, exports

must balance, and they must balance
not only in terms of amount but. in
terms of essentiality, All those mat-
ters will be worked out if they can
be worked out by the high com-
missioners. But a forum is estab-
lished, a place where meetings can
take place so that these matters do
not rise to the point of creating great
issues between the governments.

Similarly, in Berlin, arrangements
have been made so that the comman-
dants can meet and discuss the
thousand and one problems of the
split city. No power is given. No
veto resides. But a forum again is
created where people can meet and
talk about the intensely irritating
situation ... Here again that is not
much. It is simply a way of dealing
sensibly with the established fact that
the city is split and the country is
split and they cannot be put together
at this time...

To me the main great lesson of
the Paris meeting is that what

has been done has been brought
about largely by the efforts of the
American people, by their will and
by their determination. If that ground
is to be held and the advance is to
be continued, those efforts must be
continued, There is no such thing as
standing still in this operation, You
either move forward or you move
back. If we are going to move for-
ward, we must move forward with
new effort, with renewed determi-
nation. We must ratify the Atlantic
Pact. We must get on with the Mili-
tary Assistance Program, We must
do those other essential things which
are now before the Congress,

It is my conviction that the people
of Europe are prepared to move for-
ward with great courage and great
determination, They hope and expect
that we will do likewise. If we do,
then I think the power and influence
in the West will continue to grow.
This results in a greater possibility
of solving the questions we did not
solve at Paris. If we don't, I think
we are going to slip back.

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Monthly Denazification Report, CAD OMGUS

(Bad Nauheim), 30 April 1949.
Report for the Month of April, JEIA, June

1949.

EUCOM Equipment Modification Lists and
Tables of Allowances, AG 400.34 GOT-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 3 June 1949.

‘American. Scene, TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 4,
No. 23, 5 June 1949.

Civilian Personnel News Letter No. 1—49,
OPO OMGUS (Berlin), 7 June 1949.

Functions and Responsibilities of the Office
of the Comptroller, EUCOM, General Orders
No. 52, Hq EUCOM, 8 June 1949.

Bipartite Commerce and Industry Group
Weekly Report, No. 50, PIO OMGUS (Frank-
furt), 8 June 1949.

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin, No. 23,
Hq EUCOM, 8 June 1949.

‘Advance Copy of MGR Title 25, “Financial
Administration” AG 810.6 (CO), OMGUS,
9 June 1949.

‘Amendment No. 1 to MG Law*No. 16 “*Cer-
tain Operations Abroad of German Insurance
Companies," AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 9 June
1949.

Economic Press Digest, No. 52, OMGUS PIO
(Frankfurt), 10 June 1949.

Training for Transportation Truc Company
Noncommissioned Officers, Training Memo-
randum No. 5, Hq EUCOM, 10 June 1949.

Berlin, TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 24,
12 June’ 1949.

MG Law No. 21, “Legal Effect of Notarial
‘Acts of Interim Offices for German Affairs,"
and ‘Regulation No. 1 Under MG Law No. 21,"*
AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 13 June 1949.

Berlin Press Review. No. 136, OMGUS,
14 June 1949.

August 1949 Priority List_for Dependents’
Travel, AG 230.032 AGO-D, Hq EUCOM,
14 June 1949.

Readership of Heute, Opinion Survey Re-
port No. 177, ISD, OMGUS (Bad Nauheim),
15 June 1949.

Berlin Press OmGBS,
15" June 1949.

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin, No. 24,
HQ EUCOM, 15 June 1949, Covers June 7
to 10.

Review, No. 137,

Copies of Instructions listed in

the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to
the originating headquarters.

Berlin Press Review, No. 138, OMGBS,
16 June 1949.

Troop Assignment, No. 15, Hq EUCOM,
17 June 1949.

Economic Press Digest, No. 53, OMGUS
PIO (Frankfurt), 17 June 1949.

Berlin Press| Review, No. 139, OMGBS,

17 June 1949,
German Economic Press Review, No. 190,
OEA CCG (BE), 17 June 1949.

Berlin Press| Review, No. 140, OMGBS,
18 June 1949.

US Foreign Policy Today, TI&E Bulletin,
Vol. 4, No. 25, 19 June 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 141, OMGBS,
20 June 1949.

Semi-Monthly Military Government Report,
No, 115, OMGUS, PIO (Berlin), 20 June 1949.

Venereal Disease Rate, AG 726.1 MED-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, 21 June 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 142, OMGBS,
21 June 1949,

German Economic Press Review, No. 191,
OEA CCG (BE), 21 June 1949,

Laenderrat Request Reference No. L 36—3,
AG 014.1 (CA), OMGUS, 21 June 1949. Gives
MG approval of US Zone’s Council of States’
“Draft Law Concerning Compensation for the
Transfer and Expropriation of Landed Property
Pursuant to the Law on the Procurement of
Land for Settlement Purposes and for Land

Reform.”

Berlin Press Review, No. 143, OMGBS,
22 June 1949.

Troop Assignment, No. 16, Hq EUCOM,
22 June 1949,

Legislation for Monetary Reform, AG 010.6
(FA), OMGUS, 22 June 1949.

Heute (in German), No. 87, ISD OMGUS,

22 June 1949.

Weekly Newspaper Analysis, No. 176, ISD,
OMGUS, 23 June 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 144, OMGBS,
23 June 1949.
Berlin Press Review, No. 145, OMGBS,

24 June 1949.

Files Dealing with Civilian Personnel, AG
201.3 (SG), OMGUS, 24 June 1949.

German Economic Press Review, No. 192,
OEA CCG (BE), 24 June 1949,

Economic Press Digest, No. 54, OMGUS
PIO (Frankfurt), 24 June 1949,
Weekly Directive, No. 25, Hq EUCOM,

24 June 1949,
Disposition of Files, AG 271.2 (AG), OMGUS,
27 June 1949,

Troop Assignment, No. 17, Hq EUCOM,
27 June 1949,
Berlin Press Review, No. 147, OMGBS,
27 June 1949.
Berlin Press Review, No. 148, OMGBS,

28 June 1949.

German Economic Press Review, No. 193
OEA CCG (BE), 28 June 1949.

Index to EUCOM Blank Forms, AG 315 (AG),
OMGUS, 28 June 1949.

Information Bulletin, No. 164, CO, OMGUS,
28 June 1949,

Berlin Press Review, No. 149, OMGBS,
29 June 1949,
Berlin Press Review, No, 150, OMGBS,

30 June 1949. _

Traffic Cases in German Courts, AG 0108
(LD), OMGUS, 29 June 1949.

General License No. 12 Issued under MG
Law No. 53, AG 680.44 (FD), 29 June 1949.

Germans View the Ruhr Statute, Opinion
Survey Report No. 178, ISD, OMGUS (Bad
Nauheim), 30 June 1949.

Die Amerikanische Rundschau. (in German),
Vol. 5, No. 25, ISD, OMGUS, June/July 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 151, OMGBS;
1 July 1949,

German Desires and Expectations on Future
Ownership of the Ruhr Factories, Opinion
Survey Report No. 179, ISD, OMGUS (Bad
Nauheim), 1 July 1949.

Zero In, TI&E Bulletin, No. 2%
3 July 1949.

Vol. 4,

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF