--- Page 2 ---
ITIZENS OF TOMO

--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

CITIZENS OF TOMORROW—"In the
presence of this blood banner which
represents our Fuehrer, I swear to
devote all my energies, all my
strength to the saviour of our country,
Adolf Hitler." This was the oath
sworn by approximately 10,000,000
German youths before the war. Today,
through a planned MG program, young
Germans are being shown new direc-
tions which will lead away from the
regimented goals of the Hitler Youth.
What that program is and its chance
of succeeding are discussed in an
article beginning on page 3.

(US Army photos)

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of Military Government
and affiliated organizations,

Editorial Offices
Directors Building, Room 1050
OMGUS Headquaters, Berlin
Tel.: 42227, 42252, 42923
Editor H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes
Editorial Writer Christian J. Goll
Mailing address:

Information Bulletin

Control Office, OMGUS

Berlin, Germany

APO 742, US Army

Correspondence in the United States
concerning distribution should be
addressed to:

Occupied Areas Reports Distribution

Section,

Operations Branch.

Office of The Adjutant General,

Department of the Army,

Washington 25, D.C.

Printing and distributing of the
Magazine is handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
Cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

BULLETIN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No. 166

Germany's Role in World Markets .
Statement by N. H. Collisson

The Coming Generations. . . b
Article by Dr. Alonzo G. Grace

Telling What ERP Does. . .
Article by Arthur Settel

Educational Service Center
Article by Lucile Allard

German-Americans .
Digest of speech by Capt. Charles R. ‘Jelis, USN

Drug Addiction. . . %
Article by C. B. Dyar

Berlin Blood Bank .
Article by Maj. Richmond s. Paine

Leather Industry . . -
Article by Marjorie ‘A. Yahraes

Property Division Dissolved .

Personne] Notes

Occupation Log .

German Editorials .

Official Notices .

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Questions and Answers .

July 26, 1949

11

13

1S

23
24
25
27
30
31

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)

CONTROL OFFICE

BERLIN, GERMANY

REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH
APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Germany’s Role in World Markets

Following are adapted excerpts of an address by Mr. N. H. Collisson, ECA Deputy
Special Representative for Western Germany, at the opening of the ERP Export Show
in Munich July 7:

he ERP export show in Munich where more than 100 Bavarian firms are repre-

sented, is an outstanding display of the type of export goods which roll from
multifarious production lines. German goods are in demand ‘throughout Europe and
in other sections of the commercial world. But this fact should not lull one into
believing that you have but ito produce and the seller will appear automatically at
your doorstep. The harsh economic facts of this highly competitive world would
soon disillusion him who stands and waits, The world will not beat a path to the
German door. Quite to the contrary. The German must get out and sell his goods in
just the same manner as do the British, the French and the others who are seeking
to increase their export trade.

One of the greater tasks facing German exporters and manufacturers is to bring
their prices into line. It is easy to point out the problem. It is not easy to offer a
solution, There are many here in Germany who blame their troubles upon the cur-
rency conversion rate of the D-Mark. But no amount of currency adjustment can
overcome some of the more fundamental economic facts which cause high prices.
Production costs must be tailored to a reasonable selling price rather than the ssell-
ing price adjusted to production costs. New methods of production must be studied
by the German manufacturer. Experts should go to other European lands and to
America to study the newest, most up-to-date production methods. Conversely, Euro-
pean experts and American engineers should come to Germany to help. In this
exchange of technical knowledge the Marshall Plan is ready to help under its tech-
nical assistance program, which envisions the exchange of industrial knowledge
among the participating counfries.

Closely allied to the problem of making goods at a price for which they can be
sold is the problem of diversifying trade among the nations of the world. A ready
flow of goods, not merely between two nations but among all countries must be
achieved if the goals of the Marshall Plan are to be reached. Inherent in this multi-
laterialization of commerce are the unencumbered exchange of currencies, ‘the re-
moval of customs barriers and traffic, elimination of disparities between domestic and
export prices, and a termination of monopolistic practices, whether by nations or
individuals.

None of these objectives can be attained by other than a common approach to
these continental obstacles by the entire community of Marshall Plan nationis.
Narrow, selfish, nationalistic thinking cannot meet the problem of European
recovery. There must be a wholehearted common cooperative effort by all the
European nations to meet their mutual problems. In that cooperative approach
German representatives will be asked to represent Germany in international
councils, not merely as Germans but as Europeans, Just as the German people are
assuming the responsibilities of governing themselves, so must they also face the
responsibility of participating in an international and European movement.

It has been claimed, and no doubt with most justice, that it is much easier for

the American to think in European terms than it is for the European. But the Munich.

export show gives ample indication that German tradesmen and manufacturers
have in the past and still do think in European terms. Many of these goods will find
their way to France, Italy, Belgium, Holland and the other countries whose common
effort contributes to the European Recovery Program. It is time now for not only
businessmen, but for German leaders, politicians and the people themselves to
think as Europeans. If this is done, and if the people of the Marshall Plan countries
continue to work and to plan on a common community basis, the vision which was
George C. Marshall's will have been brilliantly fulfilled.

Srl 0000000000000 00000

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2

SINAN

JULY 26, 194

--- Page 6 ---
The Coming Generations

— — German Youth and the Future

HE YOUTH of Norway, Denmark,
T England, France, and other coun-
tries have known and experienced
the devastating effects of war, They
fully comprehend the meaning of oc-
cupation by an enemy power. They
know the meaning of totalitarism and
the threat of concentration camps,
Conversations with youth from for-
merly German-occupied countries re-
veal a natural bitterness, but also
tolerance and a desire for interna-
tional understanding and peace.

There is an honest desire, in many
cases, to forgive; but there is also evi-
dence that they will never
forget. I am continually
impressed with youth from
other countries because of
their concern that there be
constructed a society based
on law and order, hu-
manity and social justice.

Some wise person said
that the wickedness of the
wicked is less dangerous to
man than the weaknesses
of the good; and teen-age
youth have said that “if
you don't stand for some-
thing you fall for any-
thing.” The problems
which confront German
youth differ from those
confronting youth in other
lands largely in degree.
The basic problem with
which we are confronted is
one of materialism versus
moral values. The problem
is one which is not es-
sentially German, nor even
European, but primarily part of the
moral structure of civilization.

HE EDUCATIONAL aim of Hitler

and the Nazi Party was to create
the National Socialist human being.
Hitler said, on the fourth anniversary
of his coming to power, “Education
does not begin nor end at a certain
age; the National Socialistic revolu-
tion has imposed upon education
clearly defined tasks and has made it
independent of any age group. In-
struction is never complete. We,
therefore, cannot admit that any field
or medium of education should be
Outside the scope of the communal
obligation."

JULY 26, 1949

ty Dr. Alonzo G. Grace
Director, Education & Cultural
Relations Division, OMGUS

This meant the imposition of un-
precedented controls over the educa-
tion of children, youth and adults,
and over the cultural interests of the
country. Thus the minds and souls of
an entire nation were subjected wil-
lingly or unwillingly to a ten-year in-
tellectual blackout, to the depre-
ciation of moral values, to the substi-
tution of Nazism for religion and to
the master race concept.

From sandbox to pillbox?

Youth movements and youth orga-
nizations are not new in Germany. In
fact, the first organization known as
the Wandervogel (wander birds) was
organized back in 1896, and through
the years, until the Hitler era, youth
movements and organizations embrac-
ed many sound programs. Perhaps
the greatest achievement was about
1914 when youth became a recognized
factor in the life of the nation.

From the text of the above article
Dr. Grace took his speech for the radio
program “Town Meeting of the Air
in Berlin, July 12, 1949.

HE HITLER Youth Movement was

organized and recognized by the
party as a Reich organization in 1926.
However, no more than 2,000 youth
were present at the party rally in
Nuremberg in 1929. In 1936 the organ-
ization was legalized, and Hitler de-
creed that “the entire youth of Ger-
many, outside the home and school,
receive its training — physical, men-
tal, and moral — in the Hitler Youth
for National Service and in the spirit
of Nazism." At this time, Baldur von
Schirach published “Hitler-Jugend,
Idee und Gestalt” (Hitler Youth, Idea
and Form) in which he
wrote, “What was formerly
called the German Youth
Movement is dead.”

Each youth took tthe fol-
lowing oath upon entering
the organization:

“In the presence of this
blood banner which repre-
sents our Fuehrer, I swear
to devote all my energies,
all my strength to the
saviour of our Country,
Adolf Hitler. I am willing
and ready to give up my
life for him, so help me
God, One people, one
Reich, one Fuehrer.””

By 1940, the Hitler Youth
Movement had a mem-
bership of approximately
10,000,000 youth between
the ages of 10 and 18. At
one time, 87 percent of all
youth were part of the
Hitler Youth Organization.
It is evident that with this
kind of indoctrination and training all
through the formative years of life,
a tremendous impact must have been
made on youth.

T THE conclusion of the war, for
the most part, youth were without
goals of any kind; the collapse of the
Hitler youth organization, together
with the invalidation of the Nazi teach-
ing of the organization, left vast
numbers of young people without
goals or a means of generating posi-
tive ideals and programs. Such prob-
lems of the post-war period as un-
employment, housing, educational op-
portunity and general social disorder
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
fall with special weight on the youth
of Germany.

AN WE now paraphrase the

Schirach statement of 1936 and
say, “What was formerly the teaching
and spirit of the Hitler Youth Move-
ment is dead?”

The basic principle underlying our
effort in Germany is that the reorien-
tation of German youth is essentially
a German responsibility and that our
role is threefold: First, to assist those
forces inside Germany to provide
leadership and direction to the citi-
zens of tomorrow; second, to foster
an atmosphere in which the positive
elements can find expression in so-
ciety; and third, to prevent the re-
currence of any totalitarian or mili-
taristic tendencies among youth
organizations.

During the period of our effort to
help German youth help themselves,
several developments may be men-
tioned:

1, Voluntary Youth Organizations —
This is one method of preventing the
domination of the State in the control
of youth. Today the total membership
of voluntary youth organizations has
increased 700 percent since 1946, One
million five hundred thousand or ap-
proximately 25 percent of the young
people between the ages of 10—25
belong to one or more organizations.
Concurrently, voluntary citizen par-
ticipation on behalf of youth has been
encouraged and, at the present time,
youth committees constisting of rep-
resentative citizens from the com-
munity have been formed in 266
counties in the American Zone,

2. Leadership Training — Five
leadership training schools have been
established in which over 4,000 youth
leaders have received training in the
fundamentals of democratic youth
work,

3. Cultural Exchange — A cultural
exchange program is in operation
under which more than 50 selected
German youth leaders have studied
youth work in the United States. Eight
Americans and 23 European youth
leaders have aided in advising Ger-
man youth organizations,

4, Self-help Programs — One of the
basic needs at the present time is to
provide the youth with a mission.
Unemployed youth is a potential
danger in any nation. The self-help
program thus far has been developed
in three ways:

(a) Youth Reconstruction: The self-
help program for German youth is
one of the most encouraging and one
of the most important developments

INFORMATION BULLETIN

in recent months. Over 100 projects
have been developed without the aid
of publicity and without the knowl-
edge of the general population. These
programs in Germany consist of the
tebuilding of damaged buildings, new
dormitories, new homes, This becomes
most important, because it is estimat-
ed that as many as 100,000 youth are
homeless and wandering from one
place to the other throughout the US
Zone.

HE Studentenhaus (students house)

at Aachen, with the financial aid
of the Ministry of Education has been
completely restored by student help.
This self-help program included the
establishment of self-governing youth
homes, an extensive student-worker
exchange program, and a self-help and
scholarship program. A Western Ger-
man Work Association for youth re-
construction work has been formed
to coordinate and advance the pro-
gram.

(b) International Work Camps:
Thirty international work camps will
be in operation in the American Zone
this summer. At these camps will be
Tepresentatives from many European
nations and the United States, Youth
from many nations will live and work
together.

(c) Work-Study Program: This in-
volves an international exchange of
selected students and is the result of
a program developed between 1919
and 1932 in Germany. It provides for
sending German students to the
United States and other countries for
a two-year period during which time
these youth work on farms and in
factories, studying, working, and ob-
serving the way of life in the United
States or in whatever country is
participating in the program.

F THE 500 students who partici-

pated in this work plan between
1925 and 1932 only one ever became
a Nazi, and dozens died in concen-
tration camps or in the war. Many
hold positions of importance in Ger-
many today. While there are many
problems connected with the develop-
met of such a program on any exten-
sive scale, widespread interest has
been expressed in the plan.

A good start has ben made in the
revival of a sound younger gener-
ation, but there are numerous prob-
lems and difficulties to be overcome.
Youth organizations must liberalize
their programs, become less competi-
tive and more cooperative. The
average German citizen must learn to
volunteer his time, ability, and money

4

to advance cooperative youth pro-
grams. Although limited in extent,
certain nationalistic tendencies must
be eliminated.

It is certain that only those aspects
of MG's program will remain which
a considerable number of German
leaders have come to believe in, and
which are closely related to German
needs and desires. When we have
completed our effort, we hope that
these four things will remain:

1, Youth leaders who believe in the
democratic process of group life and
who have elementary knowledge of
the skills and techniques necessary
to achieve their beliefs,

2. The idea of the importance and
necessity of democratic youth work
established firmly in several places:
in legislation, in the minds of many
community leaders, in the training
curricula of many training centers,
and in the organization and programs
of county and state youth committees,

3. Youth organizations which have
been improved from the standpoint of
democratic objectives and methods,
This will involve two things: first, a
new concept of the group leader as a
helper and counselor who is primari-
ly interested in the personal growth
of individual young men and young
women through democratic group
life; and second, the practice of more
democratic methods techniques in
group life—such as _ discussion
techniques for problem solving, the
use of recognized parliamentary
procedure in handling the business
of the group, and the use of activities,
interests and skills, not as ends in
themselves, but as means to help
individuals grow and develop.

4, Large numbers of German citizens
in local communities who have a
desire to cooperate in meeting the
needs of all the youth, organized and
unorganized, on a community-wide
basis, and who have an elementary
understanding of practical methods.

HE ULTIMATE test of our success
in helping German youth to help
themselves is simply this:

Will youth develop the character,
the moral-spiritual power to resist
the nationalistic trend? Will youth
fall for anything? I believe that the
youth of the world will help the youth
of Germany to create a world of law
and order, humanity, social justice,
and peace. I believe that a large
number of German youth, in spite of
the Hitler era, are ready, willing and
eager to do their part, but the change
will not be accomplished overnight.

+ END

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 8 ---
Telling What ERP Does

— — In 19 Member Countries

N ITALIAN laborer in Milan

walks into his local post office,
purchases a stamp and pastes it on a
letter addressed to his farmer son
who is living in Australia. The stamp
has a design depicting a twin motif of
peace and better living, the standard
of the European Recovery Program.
Both sender and addressee notice the
stamp and a small feeling of confidence
comes over them.

“We have not been forgotten; there
are better days ahead for all of us;
America helps us so that we can help
ourselves," is an approximation of the
thought which father and son both
feel though a distance of -some
10,000 miles separates them.

In another part of the world, two
Bavarian tradesmen are discussing
Conditions in their Alpine-encircled
township. “Things are looking up,”
Says one, eyeing the brisk business
being done in the local shops..

“Remember what it was like one
year ago?” asks the second.

Prices are high, but at least the
goods are here where we can buy
them," adds the first man, glancing
at his Munich newspaper. “The im-

JULY 26, 1949

Article

ty Arthur Settel
Deputy Director, OMGUS
Public Information Office (Frankfurt)

ports are rolling in, I see,“ he ventures.
“Cotton from the United States, seeds
and petroleum, vegetables and oil.
It's all Marshall aid.”

NCIDENTS SUCH as these can be
multiplied in every one of the 19

countries taking part in this, the
greatest experiment in economic
cooperation ever undertaken in history.

The story of the Marshall Plan, its
objectives and the progress being
made toward their accomplishment, is
being told to the people who are its
immediate beneficiaries — through
press, radio, pamphlet, poster, town-
hall meeting—by their own govern-
ments in their own idiom.

The governments of the ERP coun-
tries on June 28-30 posted a combined
exhibit at the Chateau de la Muette
in Paris, designed to show graphically
the extent to which the information
programs have succeeded in reaching

5

the rank and file in each individual
country.

The exhibit was arranged by the
information office of each country
concerned, with mutual exchange of
ideas on improving the individual
programs as its basic purpose. The
economic ministers were invited to
examine the booths at their con-
venience. Comment was highly favor-
able and wide interest shown in the
contrasting techniques.

OMMON TO all of the informa-

tion programs under general
auspices of the OEEC* Press Depart-
ment is the concept that a sense of
common effort and mutual aid must
be nurtured through education and
orientation. Therefore, the success of
an information program can only be
judged by its scope in reaching the
grass-roots level.

The man-on-the-street, Mr. Average
Icelander, Englishman, Irishman, Ger-
man, Italian, Austrian—these are the
people who must be made aware of
eee (Continued on next page)

* Office for European Economic Coopera-
tion. See Article by this title in Information
Bulletin, Issue No. 163, June 14, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
US aid to the economic recovery of
their country. It is not enough to
publish broadsides in “highbrow”
economic weeklies. It is vital, how-
ever, to the success of this mutual
effort that the masses be made aware
of its broad base and its great issues.

How is this purpose to be achieved?
How best to overcome the counter-
campaign of lies and_ vilification
directed against the aid program on
a continuing basis from the Comin-
form which regards ERP as an
abomination? The answer is ade-
quately given at the OEEC Press Ex-
hibit in Paris, It is simply this:
present the facts in simple, clearly-
conceived language, hammer them
home by constant repetition and
through widely-circulated mass media.

Each of the information programs
contains some feature which is charac-
teristic and peculiar to the country
which originates it, but all have cer-
tain features in common.

N ITALY, the postal authorities co-
operated by issuing a_ special

postage stamp commemorating the
first anniversary of ERP on April 3.

In Germany,
the reserve side
of the ration
card was used
to publish a
text message.*

In Eire, a
series of week-
ly fireside chats
were employed
to reach the
people to whom
the radio is an
integral part of
home life.

In the United Kingdom, pamphlets
are employed with telling effect.

In Austria, movie slides have been
and continue to be shown in every
cinema and theater, and spot news
announcements report progress under
the impact of Marshall Aid.

“The French exploit the press for
full, frank and well-balanced analyses
and studies of the economic condition
in that country.

Special groups such as labor are
reached by servicing trade union publi-
cations and meetings with background
material, photographs, graphs and
charts on cooperation for recovery.

The town-hall meetings which are
gaining such popularity in many parts
of Europe do not need to be prodded
to discuss economic problems which

POSTE ITALIANE

* See Information Bulletin, Issue No. 157,
March 22, 1949, Page 2,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

affect the lives of every man, woman
and child, and no one can talk
economics without considering ERP.

N THE Bizone great success was
achieved with special visual ex-

hibits posted at the Amerika Haeuser
(US Information Centers) in the US
Zone and Die Bruecke Haeuser (British
Information Centers) in the British
Zone, These were accompanied by
special discussion groups to which
come townspeople, farmers, business-
men, students and persons in every
walk of life.

All of the participating countries
make good use of posters, pamphlets,
reprints, press, radio and publications
in many spheres of activity. News-
paper editors have made a valuable
contribution to the success of the
program,

Information officers in some coun-
tries make the editors’ task easier by
arranging special-events programs
which dramatize the arrival of certain
ERP shipments; by organizing press
conferences when occasion calls for
them; by inviting correspondents on
tours of factories and plants using
ERP materials; by briefing the work-
ing press corps on the complexities
of the Marshall Aid program when
this is necessary or making experts
available for this purpose, and by
other devices which are well known
in public relations work.

In the Bizone a textbook for high
school students in which the “ABC”
of ERP will be explained is in pre-
paration, An ERP fair is planned for
this fall in Munich, and every Bizonal
exposition has had an ERP display.

EVERAL ERP countries have

employed the comic book and
newspaper cartoon topresent simplified
versions of the way in which ERP is
speeding recovery and mutual trade.
An Italian cartoon which was on ex-
hibition in Paris explained the whys
and wherefores of penicillin imports
which had been financed by Marshall
funds,

An effective graphic display in the
British booth of the Paris exhibit
showed how Marshall Plan gave the
nation (a) time in which to get back
its economic equilibrium; (b) dollars
with which to underwrite the cost of
essential imports from hard currency
areas; (c) increased production by
Providing the necessary raw mate-
rials; (d) accelerated trade with world
markets; (e) internal stability during
the explosive postwar period of read-
justment.

The enormous variety of projects
which Marshall funds have made
possible was projected photographi-
cally at the Paris exhibit: public
works of land reclamation, irrigation
and forest work on mountain basins;
reactivation of damaged farms; ex-
perimental farming and training of
peasantry in the latest scientific
methods; subsidies for the canning,
processing and transforming of farm
products, for the formation of small
peasant holdings, for protection of
crops, and hundreds of others equally
important. The pictoramas tolda story —
of cooperative effort and resultant —
industrial recovery which cannot fail
to impress all who believe in freedom
and recovery.

HE PUBLICITY and education

programs are being carried out —
under authority contained in the ECA |
agreements signed between the
European Cooperation Administration
and each participant country.

Article VIII of the ECA Agreement
between the United States and British
Zones of Germany, signed in July 1948
by the two Military Governors, calls
for the widest possible dissemination
of the facts concerning the progress
of ERP in Germany “in order to
develop the sense of common effo:
and mutual aid which are essential to

of the program.”

A similar provision appears
every agreement

and a Marshall Plan country which
committed itself totake all “practicable
steps to ensure that appropriate
facilities are provided for such dis-
semination."

this portion of the agreement at lea:
is being faithfully carried out, FEI

must continue, under present regw
tions, until a final decision has b
rendered by the denazification cou
or until the probationary period 1
expired.

JULY 26,

--- Page 10 ---
Educational Service Center
— — Meeting Place for Teachers

HE BERLIN Educational Service

Center aims at being a living
institution, which offers not only a
library, reading rooms, textbook writ-
ing and test-research departments,
but also a meeting place for free dis-
cussion among educators, Established
in Nov, 1947 by the Education & Cul-
tural Relations Branch, OMG Berlin
Sector, the center has expanded its
activities from textbook writing to a
great number of additional projects
to aid students and teachers,

One of the most popular depart-
ments at the center is the library. A
teacher visiting the library one morn-
ing asked if he might telephone his
principal. The librarian heard his con-
versation, He told the principal he
would like to stay all day and ex-
plained, “this is a paradise of books!"

About 10,580 books are available,
60 percent of which are German lan-
guage and 40 percent Swiss, Dutch,
American, British and French-lan-
guage volumes. The book collection
includes many textbooks from other
countries, and all German textbooks
published in the four zones since
1945, Many of the American text-
books are beautifully illustrated. The
Germans admire and wish to copy
these texts because of the content,
fine make-up and illustrations.

NE THOUSAND books were

loaned to the Pedagogical Hoch-
schule (teachers’ college) when it mov-

Article
ty Lucile Allard

Director, Educational Service Center
Education & Cultural Relations Branch
OMG Berlin Sector

ed from the East Sector of Berlin and
established new quarters in the form-
er barracks in Lankwitz, American
Sector. Books and other instructional
materials of necessity were left behind
in the Russian Sector. The Free Uni-
versity also is in great need of in-
structional supplies, Several sets of
wall maps have been loaned to these
two educational institutions, and will
be loaned to other schools who may
need this type of equipment.

There are also 70 German and Eng-
lish-language periodicals in the center
library. Until recently, these maga-
zines were mostly pedagogical, but
gradually current magazines on other
subjects are being placed on the
shelves,

As a teachers’ aid, a committee of
students and teachers is preparing a
picture file, clipping pictures from old
magazines and filing them according
to topics studied in the school, An-
other file, also available for use of
teachers, is of German and English-
language pamphlets on subjects in-
cluding social science, history, cur-
riculum and current events.

NOTHER COMMITTEE of educa-

tors has been appointed to assist
in the selection of books for the
library to make sure that helpful, in-
teresting volumes are chosen. Com-
mittee representatives are selected
from the public schools, the Pedago-
gical Hochschule, the Free Univer-
sity and the Pestalozzi-Froebel-House,
a center for training kindergarten
teachers.

Interesting work is being done with
children to help find the kind of read-
ers which will appeal to young boys
and girls. A reading research com-
mittee, composed of an elementary
school principal and classroom teach-
ers, is doing a creative job of plan-
ning and teaching as an integral part
of the research.

This group studies the problems of
reading in the early grades which
include vocabulary, type and difficulty
and suitability of content for the Fibel
(German basic reader), Several sup-
plementary first readers are being
prepared. A particularly interesting
manuscript to be published is the
story of Baby Lion "Kora" of the Ber-
lin Zoo, to be illustrated with photo-
graphs. Kora was born during the
blockade of Berlin and was the one
of a family of three who survived.
The pictures of Kora were made by
the Educational Service Center’s vis-
ual aid workshop.- A teacher of

(Continued on next page)

Old and young enjoy the use of Berlin's Educational Service Center library which contains approximately 10,580
German, French, Swiss, Dutch, British and American-language books.

JULY 26, 1949

7

(Center photos)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Dr. H. B. Wyman, chief, Education & Curricula Section, OMGBS, (second from

right) presents radios to the center staff.

school 3, Schoeneberg, showed the
photographs through a reflectoscope
to the first and second grades, and as
aresult the children and the teachers
have written the story of Kora's early
life. Other members of the committee
are studying what children would like
to read and what kind of illustrations
seem best for children's first readers.

ESIDES ITS library and textbook

program, the center has other
projects which reach out to classroom
and teacher. Fifty radios have been
distributed to public school districts
throughout west Berlin on a loan
basis, A small portable record player
was bought at the request of an Eng-
lish teacher wishing to teach folk
songs in her German school. The re-
cord player can be used in the center
or sent out to schools where electric-
ity may not be available,

German teachers and children want
records of American folk songs and
Negro spirituals, In response to this
request, the center planned a series cf
concerts. The first was a collection
of originally-arranged Negro spirit-
uals, presented in the center by the
7800 Infantry Honor Guard Quintette,
Berlin Military Post. These spirituals
were recorded on a tape recorder for
the later use of other groups, About
200 children, students of the Pedago-
gical Hochschule and youth leaders,
were guests. After the program, the
German audience joined with the
American Quintette in the singing of
favorite spirituals which many of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Center photo)

children had learned in their English
classes,

INGER PAINTING is almost un-

known in Germany. A number of
such paintings made by 10 and 11-
year-old children in the Garden City,
Ney York public schools are being
displayed at the center. These paint-
ings, made by using hands and fin-
gers as brushes, have been intriguing
all visitors of the center. A teacher
of an art school in Berlin brought his
students to see the paintings and will
assist in putting on a demonstration
with finger-paints brought from the
United States.

As its visual aids and film program
the center makes a record of its activ-
ites, develops educational slides for
use in teacher education and in-serv-
ice training, and demonstrates the
possibilities of visual aids as instruc-
tional material to supplement short-
ages of books and supplies. Slides
are recording good kindergarten and
elementary school practices selected
from Berlin schools. The slides are
being planned cooperatively by tea-
chers and the staff of the Educational
Service Center.

The slide projector formerly used
by German schools was so large that
a weapons carrier was required to
transport it from place to place, Now,

Young admirer with baby lion Kora,
of the Berlin Zoo, whose life story is
to become a children's book.

(Center photo)

however, the center has secured two
very smal] portable projectors which
can project slides and film strips onto
the various size screens. Soon an
annotated list of films, film strips,
slides and records will be available
for schools and other interested
groups.

HE FILM program was greatly
handicapped by the Berlin block-
ade. Many showings, however, were
arranged for evenings or for other
times when the limited electric cur-

rent was available. Performances
were presented to school youth
groups, labor unions and political

party meetings. Up to the present
time only so-called educational and
documentary films have been shown,
There is a need for more entertain-
ment film, cartoons and ‘‘shorts" to put
life into the programs. Before the
war, Walt Disney films were popular
in Germany. Requests have been
made for such productions as “Pinoc-
chio," “Snow White,” and “The Three
Pigs.” West Berlin needs to laugh,

and programs should be enriched with

good musical or cartoon films.

In the field of intelligence and
achievement test research which ad-
vanced rapidly in other countries
while Hitler Germany lagged behind,
the center's program has made pro-
gress, Standardization and evaluation
work is being carried out in workshops
in the public schools of Berlin. Twen-
ty-five teachers and 30 students of
the Free University and the Pedago-
gical Hochschule are learning the
techniques of administering and
checking tests. About 4,000 west Ber-

(Continued on page 29)

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 12 ---
German-Americans
‘— — Their Contribution to MG Goals

O ONE of foreign origin contrib-

uted more to make the United
States what it is today than Hans
Meier, composite for the German
emigrant who went to the United
States in such large numbers during
the second half of the last century.

There were a number of reasons for
the emigration of Hans Meier to the
United States. He started to come in
large numbers about 1850, during a
period in which there were profound
political and sociological disturbances
in the European countries, not the
least important of which was the Ger-
man Revolution of 1848. These political
disturbances were attended and, in
part, brought about by important and
tapid changes in the economic order.

It is not too well recognized that
many of the disturbing factors in the
political life of mid-19th century Eu-
rope were closely related to the indus-
trial revolution which commenced in
England late in the 18th century. Ger-
many was among the last countries to
be affected by this industrial revolu-
tion, In 1848 more coal was mined in
France than was mined in Germany.
In 1848 more than 65 percent of the
population of the German states were
classed as agricultural people. In the
Germany of 1848 most industry could
be classed as “home industry”, partic-
ularly in the manufacture of ‘cotton
and wool textiles,

GREAT DEAL of social unrest was

caused by the impact on the Ger-
man people of the production in Eng-
Jand, Belgium and France of the much
cheaper but equally serviceable tex-
tiles manufactured in factories. These
imported textiles did not have the
soul-satisfying quality turned out by
the skillful master craftsmen of the
German home-industries, but. they
could be produced in quantity and
in a very small fraction of the time
tequired by home manufacture.

The masters resented the factory
and factory methods and thete were
objections of the so-called “‘proletar-
iat" against the machine and the
factory, much in the same spirit as,
but more violent than those which
animate some of the present antagon-
ism towards freedom of trade (Ge-

JULY 26, 1949

Article

by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN
Director
OMG Brose

werbefreiheit), There always exists
resistance to change.

Before 1840, the total number of
emigrants arriving in the United
States each year was small, but be-
tween 1845 and 1855 the average Num-
ber of newcomers admitted each year
tose to 250,000. They came from many
lands, but owing to special circumstan-
ces, such as the desire to avoid com-
pulsory military service required by
most German princes, crop failures in
the Rhineland, the political situation
in Germany and Ireland and the de-
vastating Irish famine, far more
immigrants arrived in the United
States from Germany and Ireland
than from all the other European
countries combined.

Laborers, farmers, mechanics, mer-
chants, miners, textile-workers, jobless
politicians and soldiers of fortune
moved to the United States by the
hundreds of thousands and many soon
achieved in their adopted land a great-
er prominence than they had ever
known in Germany.

In 1900 about one out of every five
Americans in the total population had
at least one immigrant parent, In 1940
there were 11,419,000 foreign born
persons in the United States out of a
population of 131,700,000.

ANS MEIER and his counterparts,
arriving in this vast land in
search of new opportunities and of
the individual freedom denied them
in their home-lands, had a dynamic
impact on the American scene. As
often as not, he went into business,
and whole cities such as Cincinnati,
St. Louis and Milwaukee soon ex-
hibited many qualities characteristic-
ally German.
Hans Meier more frequently bought
himself a farm and, not being ac-

This article is ant adaption for publication

of an address delivered by Captain

Jeffs at a meeting June 13 in Strand-
halle in Bremerhaven

9

customed to the careless methods
into which the native American farm-
er had fallen because of the abun-
dance of new rich soil, did his farming
carefully and often became relatively
wealthy. In his communities he
often continued to speak the German
language for a generation or more
and clung to the manners and cus-
toms of his German home. .
ECAUSE OF his great love for music
and good fellowship, his commun-
ity was likely to have its Liederkranz,
its own Turnverein and its Biergarten.
However, all of these people took on
American ways with a minimum of
difficulty and were soon in the pro-
cess of being absorbed into the
native population. They, in turn had
a pronounced effect on native Amer-
ican thought, customs and practices.
The presence of the immigrant in
such large numbers had much to do
with the development of universal
education in the United States, par-
ticularly because of the insistent de-
mand that immigrants learn the English

_language and, through it, learn the

duties and responsibilities of good
citizenship and the art of self-gov-
ernment.

Hans Meier and the other immigrants
played their part, too, in the ever-
westward advance of the frontier of
civilization. The frontier, while it
promoted the development of strong
individuality, served at the same time
as a melting pot and mixing bowl.

Concurrently, complete freedom of
movement made for common un-
derstanding, common business methods
and standards, common culture and
common motives and purposes. And
with it all, at least until the out-
break of the last war, there has
always been the continued addition
of new blood and new ideas brought
into the country by the new Hans
Meiers and other immigrants.

IHERE WERE in the Army of the
United States, in the late war,
thousands of men of German origin,
many of whom were born in Germany.
However much they may have de-
tested the evil political cloud which
had closed in on Germany, few, if any,
were engaged in making war on the
country of their ancestry because of
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
any deeply ingrained hatred for the
German people as such,

Some of these American des-
cendents of German families are still
in Germany in the Ameriéan Army
and Navy, in the welfare organiza-
tions operating in Germany and with
various agencies of Military Govern-
ment, all striving to assist Germans
in an understanding of other people
and to assist those other people, more
particularly the people of the United
States, in understanding things German.

UT OF curiosity, an inquiry

recently was made among some
of OMG Bremen's German-Americans
to find out their principal reasons for
being here, bearing in mind that no
American civilian need be in Ger-
many unless he wants to be. Follow-
ing are some of their answers:

1. “I had spent two years with the
occupation in the Pacific theater and,
upon my return to the United States,
it was with great interest that I applied
for service with the occupation forces
in Germany.

“On numerous occasions, I had had
discussions with my now deceased
father, German-born, about German
government, the people and how they
lived, the children, their schools and
recreation; what possessed him as a
boy to leave his county and never
return, and his ideas on various Ger-
man leaders and the developments
before and during World War II.

“From what I had gathered, it was
my belief that a great number of Ger-
man people certainly must be inter-
ested in, and a great number of
people have, the desire to live under
a democratic government.

“I learned, upon inquiry in Wash-
ington, D. C., that there were still
jobs to be performed in Germany
that would lend aid in assisting the
people of Germany to recognize and
understand democracy, With the con-
viction that I was capable of perform-
ing one of those jobs, I considered
it my mission to be accomplished and
joined the occupation forces in Ger-
many."

2. “I have a definitely personal inter-
est in the reeducation of the German
people and I came here at a sub-
stantial cut in pay to do this job. My
father spent his boyhood in Bremen
and came to the United States over
60 years ago; my grandfather is buried
near here (Bremen) and I have many
cousins living in the neighborhood.

“As I say, my interest is very per-
sonal and has been much easier for
that reason. I wouldn't be here for a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

minute if I did not think Germany
was worth saving or couldn't be

saved.”

3. “I am working in Germany be-
cause there were many questions in
my mind which I felt could be
answered only by a close observation
of the country.

“As a child growing up in the
American middile-west, I was proud of
my German ancestry. The most
successful and respected businessmen
and farmers in the areas were men of
German descent, if not actually Ger-
man immigrants, The word German
was synonymous with cleanliness,
fair play, thriftiness and prosperity. I
rejected all contrary opinions as the
result of World War I Allied propa-
ganda.

“With the advent of the second
World War, my ideas were con-
fronted with strong contradictory
evidence and I came to Germany to
learn for myself if the German people
had retained any of the fine qualities
with which their name was previously
associated, ;

“I must say that in nearly every
way, I have been profoundly dis-
appointed by what I have seen first-
hand. I only hope that the situation
is not beyond salvage, That depends
a great deal on the job we do here.”

4, “My main interest in working
with Military Government is to help
rebuild the German culture, and help
the country back on its feet and to
restore it to the family of nations. How
could I possibly undertake to teach
Germans the value of democracy unless
I felt the need to do so. Anyone
without this feeling has no business
being here,”

5. “My job itself is my prime motive
in being with Military Government.
However, I do have a very sincere
interest in the broad, long term
aspects of our work in Germany.

“My great-grandfather and his father
left Germany as political refugees and
from them, largely through the direct
influence of my. grandmother, I re-
ceived a great deal of respect for and
interest in German culture and
heritage.

“These sentiments were naturally
placed against conflicting influences
during my school years following the
first World War and after the rise of
Hitler. I was perplexed by the contra-
diction of respecting some facts of
German culture and being compelled
to condemn others.

“Consequently, I am here in Ger-
many partly seeking to settle this

10

conflict within myself by learning
and partly hoping in some way to
contribute to the correction of the
unhappy developments which have
caused such a conflict."

ND HERE are a few family histo-

ties of some of these Hans Meier
descendents now with Military Gov-
ernment, although not necessarily
the same individuals whose reasons
for being here I have just given,

1. “My father was born in Bremen
and spent his boyhood and young
manhood as a seaman aboard ships
chartered by Bremen shipping con-
cerns, His connections with and
interest in the United States developed
as a natural result of his professional
contacts with American ports and
American shipping. When he emigrat-
ed to the United States, he remained
in the same business and thereby, in
a sense, did not lose his association
with Germany, although he un-
questionably attained a degree of
success and prosperity which would
not have been likely had he remained
in Germany.”

2. “My father's parents lived in a
rural area in Germany where they
owned a small farm. The only other
means of support in the community
was a cigar factory. When my father's
parents died he was still in hhis teens
and had only the choice of subsisting
from the divided property or working
in the cigar factory.

“When, in addition to this problem,
he faced the prospect of compulsory
military service, he decided to join a
sister who was married and living in
America. He borrowed enough money
from his three brothers to pay for his
passage and went to live with his
sister and her husband on their farm
in the middle-west. He supported him-
self by sharing in the work of the
farm and at the same time he attended
the local grammar school.

“From farming, he turned to work
in a local ice-plant. Throughcorrespon-
dence courses he studied dairying and
refrigeration and eventually found
work in a dairy and ice-cream plant.
By the time he was 40, he was
half-owner of this concern and a
reasonably prosperous man, owning
his own home,”

3. “My  great-grandfather was
brought to America at the approx-
imate age of four by his father, a
minor educational official from Hanau
who was undoubtedly seeking to
avoid the Prussian ‘Inquisition’ which
followed the unsuccessful Revolution

(Continued on page 20)

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 14 ---
Drug Addiction

— — Problem of Control in Germany

N GERMANY, it is estimated that

there are more than 15,000 drug
addicts, or about one in 4,400 persons.
Although this percentage at present
does not constitute an outstanding
danger to public life, Germany lacks
an effective means of preventing or
reducing the number.

Drug addiction in Germany results
from the use of several kinds of
narcotics. Morphine is still the chief
drug, although several “substitutes”
for morphine like dolantine (demerol),
a synthetic drug, have claimed many
addicts in recent years, Dolantine has
been controlled since 1941, It is
characteristic that manufacturers of
“substitutes” for morphine claim their
drugs possess the beneficial properties
of morphine without the drawback of
causing addiction to the user.

One by one the "substitutes" have
been found to be just as habit-form-
ing as morphine itself. Recently the
committee of experts of the World
Health Organization studied the ef-
fects of dolantine, metopon, amidone
(another synthetic drug, also called
polamidon and methadone), The com-
mittee pronounced them all dangerous
drugs capable of causing addiction
which should be placed under inter-
national control the same as morphine
and other recognized dangerous
drugs. Aktedron (phenylaminopropan),
also known as benzedrine and elasto-
non, was placed under the controls of
the German Opium Law on June 12,
1941, It can only be obtained on a
doctor's prescription. Under the names
of aktedron and benzedrine this drug
cannot be obtained in trade at the
present time in the US Zone, but as
elastonon it is prescribed in tablet
form currently whenever medically
justified,

A stronger drug called pervitine
(phenylmethylaminopropan) of similar
chemical structure, is in fairly com-
mon use and has given rise to many
cases of addiction in Germany. It has
been prescribed against fatigue in the
past, but fatigue does not constitute
medical justification for the pre-
spription of a dangerous drug, and
doctors have repeatedly been warned
of this by the German health
authorities,

JULY 26, 1949

Article

by Charles B. Dyar

Narcotics Officer
Public Health Branch
Civil Administraton Division, OMGUS

DDICTION to cocaine and heroin
is now practically negligible in
Germany. This is a remarkable
development, but entirely consistent
with a steady decline in medical use
of these drugs, as cocaine was the
chief drug of addiction in the period
following World War I, and heroin
was second in demand, There tis no
manufacture of heroin in Germany at
the present time. Doctors no longer
prescribe it. Opium smoking is rarely
reported, and when discovered it is
found chiefly among the Chinese
colonies in seaports,

Indian hemp (marihuana) smoking
is a new development in Germany
which is causing some concern, the
hemp being obtained from northern
Italy and France, where the plant is
cultivated extensively for fiber. Cases
of smoking marihuana cigarettes have
also been reported from the seaports

of Bremen and Hamburg where sea-
men have distributed them.

Such abuse of Indian hemp, which
is also cultivated in Germany for
fiber to a limited extent, has heretofore
been unknown in the country, Con-
sequently, although Indian hemp is
covered by the Opium Law, there are
no precedents in German  juris-
prudence for prosecution for misuse
of it for smoking and intoxication.
The word “marihuana” is known only
from hearsay and romantic stories,
Hashish, which is made from the
resin of Indian hemp, is expressly
outlawed. Marihuana, however, con-
sists of the dried flowering tops of
the plant (cannabis).

EPORTS are sometimes received

of addiction to sleeping drugs,
soporifics (such as phanodorm) or
luminal, which are barbituric pro-
ducts and not classed as narcotics,
although doctors’ prescriptions are
usually required to obtain them, It is
questioned whether these cases really
involve addiction. Medical opinion is
inclined to regard them as instances
of habituation, and not true ad-
diction. (Continued on next page)

Mr. Dyar, author of this articie, presents 2,000 grams of streptomycin as a gift
from the Unitarian Service Service Committee to the University of Tuebingen
in Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern, French Zone. In the photograph are (left to
tight), Col. Louis Fabre, French Public Heath Section chief; Dr. Dyar; Dr.
William Radcliffe, public health adviser of OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden; Dr.

Hans Bennhold of the university's medical school.

11

(PIO OMGWB photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
The control of drug addiction, its
prevention and the rehabilitation of
addicts constitute a major task of the
German public health authorities
assisted by Military Government. The
German public health authorities keep
lists of all drug addicts who have
violated the Opium Law, imcluding
doctors, and they are all prosecuted.

In recent years such violations as
theft and use of doctors” prescriptions,
the forging or alteration of them, ob-
taining prescriptions under false pre-
tenses or simulating diseases, using
false names, etc. have made up 35
percent of all reported narcotic vio-
lations. This is a good indication of
the prevalence of addiction. Most of
such violations are discovered during
regular inspections of pharmacies by
public health officials, when all doc-
tor's prescriptions on file are carefully
scrutinized. Itinerant addicts, however,
are not easily caught in this way.

USEFUL provision in the control

of addiction requires all patients
receiving narcotics on a doctor's pre-
scription for more than six consecutive
weeks to be reported by the phar-
macies to the state opium officer, who
registers them in card catalogues as
potential addicts, When necessary,
corrective action may be taken by
restricting a patient or addict to a
single doctor and a single pharmacy.
Every effort is made to induce addicts
to take withdrawal cures; in general,
they cannot be compelled to do so
except by court order after conviction
for a violation. Such conviction does
not necessarily class a violator as a
criminal addict in the restricted sense
of being a criminal first and addict
later, which is the usual definition of
a criminal addict.

All these measures, together with
educational programs in the press and
motion pictures, and specific courses
of instruction for the medical pro-
fession, are still felt to be inadequate.
Public health authorities are endeavor-
ing to establish a more effective
system of control.

A system of compulsory registration
of all addicts and potential addicts,
with provision for review of each
individual case by medical officers
and a special drug addiction board,
has been proposed by Dr. Armin Linz,
director of the Opium Office of the
Berlin Magistrat, and discussed in
meetings of the narcotics subcom-
mittee of the Laenderrat (US Zone
Council of States) at Stuttgart.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Under this scheme, further restric-
tions could be placed on drug supplies
and treatment of actual or potential
addicts; even compulsory commitment
to an institution for withdrawal treat-
ment would be possible. Doctors would
constantly be advised of their respon-
sibilities under the law. Violations
of the law by doctors in prescribing
narcotics without medical justification
would be more strictly prosecuted,

HIS PROPOSAL is strongly oppos-

ed by many doctors who reject
as.a violation of professional secrecy
any outside control of their patients
or anything disturbing the intimate
and confidential relations between
doctor and patient. These doctors
stress the point that an addict is a
sick person who must be treated by a
doctor and sheltered from unduly stern
measures of the authorities; he should
be an object of pity, and not con-
sidered a criminal cringing in the
shadow of the law. Doctors object to
being placed in the position of agents
of the police; compulsory reporting
of addicts in their view smacks of
nazism and the police state.

The supporters of compulsory re-
porting of addicts point to the over-
riding general interest of public
health. The responsibility of doctors
in the treatment of addict patients is
recognized to a certain extent, but
there is a broader responsibility to

the public interest which the doctors
cannot shoulder alone; they should
therefore cooperate in a democratic
way in all measures necessary in the
interest of public health. Experts in
the field of drug addiction point out
that addicts who have acquired a
habit as a result of necessary tem-
porary medical treatment, and may
therefore be considered sick persons,
constitute only a small group; the
great majority of addicts are dan-
gerous to public welfare.

Hence, the problem becomes pri-
marily a law enforcement matter, with
incidental medical aspects. Dr. Linz
himself stresses that the main object
of compulsory reporting of addicts,
aside from assisting doctors, is to
prevent addiction rather than waiting
until a patient becomes an addict
before something is done.

HERE ARE thus two schools of
thought concerning the proper
means of control of drug addiction,
both agreeing that addiction must be
fought: the humanitarian school, favor-
ing individual care of addicts by
qualified physicians and shelter for
them from the outside world; and the
enforcement school, believing in the
prevention of a public evil with all
the instruments the law provides, and
in strengthening the law wherever
possible, The Western German Gov-
ernment must deal with this problem
in the not too-distant future. -++END

| Two Laenderrat Laws Disapproved by MG

‘WO LAWS recently proposed by

the US Zone Laenderrat (Council
of States) for promulgation throughout
the US Zone by the executive decrees
of the ministers president were dis-
approved by- Military Government.
One law was objectionable on the
merits; the other was deemed un-
necessary.

The law concerning “Expiration of
Periods of Limitation extended on
Account of War Conditions” would
have generally cut off by June 30,
1949 all rights which would have
expired on or before Dec 30, 1948,
except for the operation of special
statutes enacted during the war which
suspended the operation of various
statutes of limitation, The law, a
special statute of limitations, was in-
tended by the Laenderrat to simplify
present rules of limitation.

However, it would have cut to six
months the unexpired periods of lim-

12

itation which, in many cases, have
years to run and would have dimin-
ished the protection of creditors rights
including those of foreign creditors
and United Nations nationals. It was,
therefore, disapproved.

NOTHER LAW amending the
“Law for the Establishment of
the Land Central Bank” was disap-
proved because the substantive prov-
ision it sought to enact had already
been enacted in MG Law No, 66,

“Land Central Banks," effective
April 15, 1949. This law, identical
with laws issued by British and

French Military Governments for their
respective zones, met the substance
of the Laenderrat proposed law by
extending until March 1, 1950 the time
for compliance by state ministers of
finance with the requirement that
they sell the capital stock shares of
state central banks. — From Military
Governor's Monthly Report No. 46.

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 16 ---
Berlin Blood Bank

— — First in Germany

ERLIN HAS established a blood

bank, the first of its kind—
so far as is known—in all of Ger-
many. Because of the transportation
and communication difficulties imposed
by the blockade this newer method
of storing blood for emergency trans-
fusions has been highly useful.

The arm-to-arm method, an older
process still common in Germany,
goes back many centuries and well-
authenticated records are available
of transfusions performed as early as
the 17th century. These early trans-
fusions were generally carried out by
passing blood directly from the artery
or vein of one person (animals also
were sometimes used) into the vein
of the recipient. Such transfusions
were attended not only with technica!
difficulties but also with grave risks,
owing to the unsuitability of animal
blood (the lamb was, the favorite
animal used for this purpose) and be-
cause of ignorance of the existence
of different human blood types. Fatal
reactions due to incompatible blood
were frequent,

Successful blood transfusion was
first made possible by the discovery
of the four different types (A, B, AB
and O) of human blood just after, the
turn of the present century. During
the following decade much work was
done to perfect a technique of trans-
fusion by sewing the artery of the
donor directly to the vein of the
recipient. Several techniques using
paraffin-coated glass tubes or multiple
needles and pumping devices also
were developed. These methods all
shared the disadvantages of extreme
technical difficulty, of not knowing
exactly how much blood had been
transfused, and also of difficulty in
finding a suitable donor at the mo-
ment when the transfusion was re-
quired,

A solution to this last-named diffi-
culty was found in 1914, when trans-
fusions were performed for the first
time with blood to which a’ sodium
Citrate solution had been added to
Prevent clotting. This opened the
Possibility of keeping the blood for
a period of time prior to giving it to
the recipient. Blood “banks” as such
were a much later development, The
Spanish Civil War showed the value

JULY 26, 1949

Article

by Maj. Richmond S. Paine
Chief, Public Health Branch
OMG Berlin Sector

of the procedure in connection with
military operations.

OWEVER, ‘IN Germany, as con-

trasted to the United States, the
citrate method of transfusion has never
enjoyed any great popularity. Blood
banks were unknown although a
plasma program was carried on during
the war on a very much smaller scale
than in the United States. The
limitations of this system became
especially apparent during the
blockade of Berlin. Few donors_had
telephones and it was impossible to
summon them by radio because there
was no electricity during most of the
day and night. Public transportation
generally stopped at six o'clock in the
evening and there was no way for the
donors to reach the hospital even if
they could be contacted, The last of
the 2,000 units of plasma donated by
the US Army in 1945 had been used
up and there was literally no reserve
of blood or plasma anywhere in the
city for emergencies. The already

overworked staffs of the city hospitals
were sometimes used as donors but
usually did not include persons of the
rarer types of blood, An accident or
surgical patient might easily have
bled to death before a suitable donor
could be found for a life-saving trans-
fusion.

US Military Government therefore
undertook measures to establish a
reserve of citrated blood similar to
blood banks in the United States.
Detailed information as to the techni-
cal processes was provided. Large
quantities of surplus special type
bottles and other transfusion equip-
ment were turned over to the German
hospitals by the Army's 279th Station
Hospital, where German doctors also

observed typing and _ transfusion
methods in the laboratory. After some
initial opposition from entrenched

conservatism was overcome, the idea
took hold and was succesfully carried
out. Chief credit for this is due to the
untiring energies of Dr. Wilhelm Heim,
Chief of the Surgical Service of the
Rudolf Virchow Hospital in the French
Sector of Berlin, and also director of
the city Blood Donor Center,
(Continued on next page)

At the Rudolf Virchow Hospital, Berlin, modern method of taking blood from
German donor and Storing it for later transfusions is now practiced, (Us Army photo)

13

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
HE ADVANTAGES of the citrate

method of blood transfusion, now
possible in Berlin, are numerous. Be-
sides keeping a supply of blood of
various types in stock, the blood is
already typed and tested for diseases
such as syphilis which are transmit-
tible by transfusion. Quantities of
blood are immediately available;
citrated blood is as easy to adminis-
ter as any other intravenous infusion,
and the process can be started quickly
and without technical difficulty,

The only objections to the method
are that fresh untreated blood is more
desirable for certain relatively un-
common diseases and that blood stored
in banks can be kept only for a
maximum period of two or three
weeks, The latter difficulty can be
overcome by planning the size of the
blood bank to correspond to the ex-
pected needs, or by manufacturing
plasma from blood whose expiration
date is approaching. Plasma can be
packaged in a sterile manner and
kept for long periods.

Another innovation introduced into
Berlin in connection with transfusions
was typing for the Rh factor, This
factor is present in the blood of
approximately 85 percent of adults
and absent in the other 15 percent. It
is best known for its connection with
a type of jaundice in new-born infants
called erythroblastosis feotalis, which
is seen in a small percentage of the
instances where the mother is Rh-

negative and the father Rh-positive.
This factor is of importance in blood
transfusions in two ways. First, the
best hope of saving one of these
jaundiced babies lies in replacing his
blood with an Rh-negative trans-
fusion. Secondly, an Rh-negative
person rendered sensitive to the Rh
factor (as for example, by previous
transfusions of Rh-positive blood) may
have a serious reaction if another
transfusion of Rh-positive is given.

IAILURE TO TEST blood for this
factor-had undoubtedly been the
cause of numerous transfusion
reactions in Berlin among war vete-
rans and obstetrical patients. This
factor had previously been studied on
a small scale in Berlin in connection
with infants at the Kaiserin-Auguste-
Viktoria-Haus in the British Sector,
but had never been tested for as a
routine measure in transfusion cases.
Testing serum was donated by Dr.
Louis Diamond, Boston Blood Grouping
Laboratory, and the procedure was
initiated in Berlin for the first time.
Arrangements were also made with
a large biological manufacturing
concern, The Schering Works in the
British Sector, to manufacture a re-
serve of plasma for future emergency
use. After the cells have been sepa-
rated from the liquid portion of the
blood (plasma) the latter is evaporated
to dryness under a vacuum, and

sealed in sterile glass flasks. It can
be kept for many months in this form,

A blood transfusion is given to a patient at the Rudolf Virchow Hospital,
Berlin, by Dr. Wilhelm Heim, director of the Berlin Blood Donor Center.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

and “reconstituted” for use merely
by adding sterile distilled water.

HE PROGRAM has been beset by

many difficulties, technical and
otherwise. The Berlin system differs
from blood banks in the United States
in that under the existing German
social insurance system there are
practically no volunteer blood donors
who “pay back" transfusions given to
friends or relatives, Instead, there are
several thousand registered donors
who give blood regularly in return
for a fee paid them by the social
insurance, There has been great diffi-
culty in obtaining the money to
establish the desired reserve of blood
and plasma and this was accentuated
by the fact that before the establish-
ment of the west mark alone in
western Berlin, the donors were un-
willing to give blood for east marks,
the only currency the city was able
to pay them.

Technical and financial difficulties
remain, and the Berlin project is a
long way from approaching the
magnitude of blood banks in the
United States. It is noteworthy,
however, as the first blood bank in
Germany, and as proof that recent
medical advances in other countries
can be introduced successfully in
Germany. + END

Dr. H. Junkmann, director of Schering ~
Works, shows dried plasma (left) —
made from amount of whole blood in-
cylinder. i

(US Army photos) —

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 18 ---
Today hides and skins, most imporlant
raw material of the leather industry,
are supplied to Germany through ERP.
Snake skins (left) from India and cow
hides (right) from the Argentine await
processing. Preparations for drying
(above) require 1,000 strokes with a
hammer to flatten the hides for the

drying room. (Schoenborn, OMGUS, PIO)

Leather Industry

ONDAY'S SLAB of leather, in
a typical German factory, be-
comes Friday's pair of shoes,
The shoemakers create in five days
a product for which millions of
customers have waited five years,
yet the craftsmen still have far to go to
catch up with domestic demand. They
must travel farther still to regain the
share of the world market blueprinted
for them by the European Recovery
Plan. And the problems of postwar
Germany's shoemakers are the prob-
lems of her entire leather industry.

Certain inherited assets still benefit
the leathermakers: finishing and
marketing practices are up-to-date.
German boxcalf, for example, is still
esteemed abroad. Alert German styl-
ists know that smooth-finish luggage
is the current preference in New York;
that rough-finish is selling faster in
Frankfurt.

Against these assets, Germany's
leather industry—before Hitler, the
world's third biggest in some bran-
ches—must count as liabilities: the
scarcity of raw materials at home
and the scarcity of dollars in the
pockets of potential customers,

But no matter what the assets or
liabilities may be, the need for
leather products demands replace-
ments in all phases of German life
today. The Bavarian farmer has not

JULY 26, 1949

by Marjorie A. Yahraes
Staff Writer
Information Bulletin

yet found a good substitute for
leather harness; the Ruhr factory
man needs his leather work gloves;
the traveler prefers his leather suit-
case; the cripple must have leather
to manipulate his artificial limbs; the
child needs shoes to wear to school.
Reviving the leather industry of
western Germany, therefore, was
looked upon primarily as a way to
fill pressing needs within the country
itself. Shoes and technical leather
goods must be supplied first; exports
of leather were considered secondary
in the revival of postwar Germany.

LMOST ANY hide or skin can be

converted into leather for some
purpose and before the war Germany
imported already-processed leather
from many lands—goat and kidskin
from India, sheepskin from France,
crocodile and snakeskin from tropic
countries via England. She bought

This is the second in a series of articles
on industries of western Germany. The
postwar development in other German
industries will be reviewed in forth-
coming issues of the Information Bulletin.

15

abroad even more raw materials to
make her own leather: half the hides
and skins used in Germany and 60
percent of the tanning materials, Be-
fore Hitler came to power, Germany
was third only to the United States
and Great Britain in the production
of sole leather.

Tannage—the process of turning
skins into all the varieties of leather—
is still an art in Germany, As in
other industries, German leather
workers have inherited trade secrets
which make superior products, For
example, fine boxcalf, a rich smooth-
surface leather processed from best
quality calfskin and used in making
handbags and fitted cases, was one
of the country’s well-known prewar
exports, Foreign tradesmen assumed
for many years that German water
contained special properties respon-
sible for the production of such fine
leather. But refugees who emigrated
to England during the war years
proved that a skilled hand could
make equally good leather far from
Germany.

Every hide goes through some form
of this complicated tanning process
to become leather, The thin outer
layer of skin must be removed
leaving the thick layer, the derma,
underneath to be transformed into

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
A worker needs 30 minutes to soften one hide through hand kneading. This
slow hand work explains part of the high cost of fine leather.
(Schoenborn,

leather, When hides are to be ex-
ported before the tanning process
takes place, they are preserved for
passage on ship or train either by
drying or by salting. To fulfill her
1949/50 needs Germany is requesting
import of 96,800 tons of raw hides
and skins and 3,000 tons of finished
leather goods. Her own production
of hides and skins for this period is
41,200 tons.

A large portion of the skins to be
converted to boxcalf and other upper
leathers probably will go to a plant
at Weinheim in the US Zone. A large
part of the other hides will arrive
at Neumuenster in the British Zone
where one of the bigger tanneries
in west Germany is located.

HERE ARE many skins, many

kinds of finished leather, and a
host of products used to work the
transformation, among which are:
salt, lime, sodium sulphide, caustic
soda, bichromates, acids, pigments,
surface finishes, oils and fats, For
the year 1949/50, Germany needs
27,600 tons of these concentrated
tanning agents. She can. produce
10,700 tons of them for herself. For
the other 16,900 tons of tanning
products she must shop around.

At the tanneries, hides are cleaned
by washing and soaking in several
changes of water. Hair is removed
by lime or by machine and the hides
are washed again to purify from lime
and other alkalies, Depending upon
their intended use, skins are some-
times rewashed, or pickled in sul-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

OMGUS, PIO)

phuric acid and common salt, Now
the tanning process just begins.

Man has learned to turn hides into
leather by pickling processes, by
the use of vegetable and syn-
thetic tannins or by using minerals.
Synthetic tannins are manufactured
from phenols and hydrocarbons, Ve-
getable tannin is derived from bark—
especially South African mimosa and
South American quebracho and oak.
Most of Germany's own vegetable
tannin comes from bark of her native
pines.

KINS, AFTER they become leather,

produce material for mainly three
general kinds of products: technical
leather, fancy leather goods and
shoes, Counting small and large
leather plants of all types there are
approximately 1,065 establishments
making shoes and 1,600 factories

The apprentice system of training young boys and girls is used both in shoe —

making other types of leather goods
in all three zones of western Germany,
Many of these have only a handful
of employees, some of them producing
at home for piece-work pay. In 1936,
that part of Germany comprising the
Bizonal Area produced a total of
78,408 metric tons of leather of all
types; in 1948 the same region pro-
duced only 32,261 metric tons, lack
of raw materials often being the basic
difficulty. Besides tannins and hides,
Germany, especially during early
postwar days had to import shoe
and suitcase linings, sewing materials,
tubber for rubber soles, fancy metal
for making zip fasteners and handles
for bags.

Slow economic recovery has meant
a piling up of consumer needs, In
addition to shoes and fancy leather
goods, there is a large accumulated
demand for technical leather products
such as industrial gloves and workers’
protective clothing and mechanical
leathers, Production of all kinds of
gloves was kept low during the war
and for a while afterward. The
demand for gloves far exceeds the
supply.

For the year 1947-48, 4,800 tons of
leather were allocated for such in-
dustrial purposes as belting leather for
driving belts, technical leather ar-
ticles, worker's protective articles,
harness and saddlery leather, optics
and orthopedics, which includes parts
for artificial limbs, It is believed ©
that the allocation for orthopedic
leather can be reduced in 1952/53 —
because war-disabled persons prob-
ably by then will have been supplied
with artificial limbs,

‘VVERSEAS BUYERS before the war
liked German-made finished
goods such as handbags, portfolios,
dressing cases and fitted traveling

factories (left) and fancy leather goods plants (right). i
(Schoenborn, OMGUS, PIO; Ludwig Krumm photo) —

16

JULY 26, 1949 7
r

--- Page 20 ---
cases. Many of these products came
from the Offenbach region where
65 percent of the 1,600 bizonal leather-
goods factories are located. Hugue-
nots leaving their homeland at the
end of the French revolution are said
to have brought the art of making
fancy leather goods to the Offen-
bach district.

Although Offenbach factories began
operating again three days after the
occupation of the town in 1945 and
small imports were authorized in
1947, Offenbach’s export program 1s
not by any means reestablished, In
1948 the Bizone exported $1,000,000
worth of leather goods. According to
European Recovery Plan estimates, it
is hoped that the industry will export
$35,000,000 or 45 percent of its out-
put in 1949/50. But manufacturers are
far from optimistic. So far this year,
only $8,000,000 worth of goods have
been produced, with about $500,000
worth exported,

The difficulty in this field is not
primarily a lack of available raw
materials. In the Trizone, $60,000,000
is being spent this year for the
importation of 100,000 tons of raw
skins while 42,000 tons of skins will
be supplied by Germany herself, The
tonnage is enough, although manu-
facturers sometimes complain that
many raw skins imported today are
not of the desired standard, They say
their buyers are not able to travel
abroad and examine skins before
contracts are signed to make sure
of getting the type and quality so
necessary for their particular product
as was the case before the war.

HE EXPORT market suffers main-
ly because of the price of the
finished products, Most countries of

JULY 26, 1949

the world have
small leather in-
dustries of their
own upon which
they can depend
for footwear
and leather nec-
essities. They
are not eager to
use up. their
precious dollar
exchange for
imported lux-
uries from Ger-
many.

Even in coun-
tries like Can-

Ata large Neu-
muenster  tan-
nery hides go
through the
final processes
of (upper) glaz-
ing, (center)
shaving to uni-
form thickness,
and (lower)
applying color.
They are then
ready to be
turned into
finished leather
goods.

(OMGUS PIO)

ada, the United States and Venezuela
where leather luxury products are still
somewhat in demand, prices of German
leather goods are almost prohibitive.
At the Military Government German
industrial exhibition in New York this
spring, for example, some German
leather articles were found to be
priced approximately 60 to 70 percent
higher than American items, Although
the German quality was sometimes
superior, consumers were not ‘willing
to pay so large a difference in price.
If a handbag, for instance, costs $15
at the German factory it will retail in a
New York store for approximately $31
to $35. Because the finest leather, steel
and workmanship go into cases and
fitted bags their factory;price is high
and when transportation and import
tax are added, the item soars beyond
reach of all except a few. The Ludwig
Krumm plant, which sells its Gold-
pfeil (golden arrow) products in some
of the largest US department stores,
exported 80 percent of its products in
1929; today the factory ships abroad
not quite 10 percent,

Meanwhile, these plants which used
to export continue to produce for
sale in Germany. Along with leather,
they make smaller quantities of
plastic goods for a still smaller clien-
tele. A good plastic handbag may
cost as little as DM 7 to DM 10 and
last longer than a _ second-quality
leather bag at twice the price, but
German women who wearied of

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Hitler's substitutes still take leather.
In the Offenbach factory of Schaeffers
and Krebs—as in many another—rolls
of synthetic leather are laid away
awaiting a more receptive market.

ERMANY'S LEATHER craftsmen

keep close watch on what the
customers want, Because of their
specialized export trade before the
war, they are alert to changes in
fashion, Some plants, as the Ludwig
Krumm factory, employ special de-
signers to watch trends in Paris and
study US style magazines, They know
that a smooth finish is popular in the
United States while a rough surface
suitcase is preferred in Germany.
Wistfully, they express hope that
Americans one day will adopt the
briefcase which is an accessory of
the German costume.

Postwar Germany was _ plagued
with shortages and critical consumer
demands, but none more pressing
than its need for shoes. In this
northern climate they were a basic
necessity. Without them, how could
the farmer turn the cold spring sod,
his children walk the snowy lane to
school or his wife queue up for rations
on the icy pavements? It was pressure
to keep their families shod which
often pulled workers away from
essential industries to comb the black
market,

Before the war, Germany's shoes—
except for approximately half a
million pairs exported—were worn
at home, Hitler Germany curtailed
imports of hides and skins and tanning
materials needed for shoe-making so
that its citizens had the regimented

Sixty-five percent of west
cases and fitted cases are made.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

amount to get by. In 1936, for
example, there were enough shoes
made to allow 2.12 pairs to each
person that year.

ONG ACCUSTOMED to frugality,

however, the average German
came through the war ‘with at least
one or two pairs of shoes, which by
painstaking care were made to last
close to three years, This was not
true, of course, of children whose
growing feet demanded changing
sizes, and other persons who wore
out shoes in their work or those who
lost most of their belongings,

By 1948, everyone needed shoes.
But during 1947, total leather shoe
production in western Germany was
only .48 pairs per person and .8 pairs
per person of all other types including
textile shoes and sandals—less than
one pair for every two inhabitants.
French Zone factories were operating
only at 15 percent of capacity and
the Bizone at 70 percent because
there were not enough raw materials
available, Imports had not begun to
flow in large amounts and war had
diminished the number of domestic
cattle with the result that home
supplies were small. Prewar cattle
stocks east of the Oder-Neisse line, in
the territory now under Soviet and
Polish administration, for example, are
estimated to have been reduced by
4,000,000. Many of the skins taken
from postwar domestic stock were
inferior because of improper feeding
and careless selection. Many skins
came from young animals and were
unsuitable for shoe bottom leather.

To help close the gap between

18

supply and demand in the shoe
industry, imports of skins were made
in mid-48 costing $39,900,000 and
tanning materials costing $5,400,000,
The hides, of course, had to be
processed at the tanneries and so
were not available to the
factories until the end of 1948 and
the beginning of 1949. To bridge the
critica] interim period, finished leather
costing $6,700,000 was imported from
the United States and fed into the
factories.

IRST AID TO many consumers

during these difficult months
came from the Jedermann program
adopted in October 1948, The plan
was designed to help the manufac-
turer obtain raw materials quickly
and to offer the customer good
quality products at a price he could
pay.” Fhis program was especially
helpful and effective in the shoe in-
dustry where prohibitive prices on
footwear were lowered by good-
quality, inexpensive Jedermann shoes
selling between 30 and 40 percent
under similar non-program shoes,
Now that the Jedermann program
has served its major purpose, it is
expected gradually to fade out of
existence, People are finding that to-
day's market offers a choice of shoes
and styles. The hardest times are
over and customers are under less
pressure to buy a shoe purely for
utility and price. For the year 1948/49
it is estimated there will be 1.25
pairs of shoes per person in western

*See Information Bulletin, “Jedermann Pro-
gram", Issue 161, May 7, 1949.

Germany's leather goods factories are in Offenbach where handbags, portfolios, dressing
(Ludwig Krumm photos) —

JULY 26, 1949

shoe «©

--- Page 22 ---
Part of the sewing room at Hoechst shoe factory where women
stitch shoe uppers and are paid by the piece.

Germany—.82 pairs made of leather,
and .43 pairs of second-grade quality
made of synthetics, textiles or other
materials. ERP estimates for 1949/50
set the figure for 1.57 pairs of shoes
per person and for 1952/53, 1.89 pairs
per person,

To most people in the leather
industry, these figures appear opti-
mistic unless French Zone factories
are utilized more successfully, There
are a large number of plants in this
region; the capacity of the industry
here is nearly one-third that of the
whole of Germany. In 1936, the French
Zone region produced 28,000,000 pairs
of leather shoes; in 1947 the same
section turned out only 5,600,000
pairs. Factories had been damaged
during the war, and even when re-
pairs were made there were limited
stocks of raw materials. Factories
had to rely during the first postwar
years on local hides, traditionally the
source of only 10 percent of all
Germany's stock.

If raw materials can be made
available in continuing supply to the
Trizone, it is believed that the shoe
industry may be able to meet its
target figure.

YNTHETICS WILL not form a

major part of west German
production except, perhaps, for shoe
soles, ‘Consumers show sales re-
sistance towards all types of sub-
stitutes for leather products. On the
Other hand, leather synthetics are
being turned out on a large scale
in the Soviet Zone. Most output of
the East Zone leather shoe industry
is being used to meet reparations
deliveries, In 1947/48 it is reported
that only 100,000 to 200,000 leather
shoes were available to the East Zone
German population; the rest of the

JULY 26, 1949

stocks on hand were synthetics, Four
nationalized factories are producing
imitation leather from igelite (plastic)
and buna (synthetic rubber) and an
electro-chemical combine at Bitter-
feld produces an estimated 2,000,000
pairs of igelite shoes annually.

Meanwhile, west German factories
continue to make shoes of all types
from leather. A typical plant is at
Hoechst, which makes average-priced
shoes for mother and child at the
rate of 80,000 pairs per month.

The company’s medium - quality
shoes sell for approximately DM 25,
while their better shoes cost from
DM 28 to DM 29—a middleman’s
profit of about DM 7 having been
added to the factory price.

IHE PLANT'S capacity is 100,000

pairs a month, The 750 workers
are paid by the piece and work
under cramped conditions which give
an impression of unmodernized de-
velopment. However, they produce
good-quality shoes from excellent
raw materials. As in many shoe
factories today, a large number of
the workers are women. They were
taken on during the war to hold jobs
traditionally filled by men—positions
such as clerks or leather cutters.
Partly because they showed great
proficiency and partly because of the
continued shortage of men, the
women workers have stayed on.

The Hoechst plant, as well as other
shoe factories, has an apprentice
system. Boys and girls 14 to 18 years
old learn the trade by practicing for
two and a half years under the guid-
ance of older experienced workers.
Apprentice boys, by practicing on
brown paper, learn the ‘highly skilled
operation of cutting shoe sections
from a given skin of leather. Young

19

Chief designer studies styles, makes
samples to follow new fashion trends,

girls sit at their sewing machines apart
from the other workers, stitching
paper before trying their skill on the
valuable leather upper parts of a shoe.

On Monday the leather starts in
the damp basement of the building—
damp to keep the leather in good
condition; is cut into soles, heels and
upper parts depending upon the type
of leather and style of shoe; passes
through an incredible number of stitch-
ing, gluing, tacking, smoothing and
polishing processes and emerges on
Friday a finished pair of shoes. -+END

Conveyor line in the finishing section
of shoe manufacturing plant,
(Schoenborn, OMGUS, PIO photos)

--- Page 23 ---
(Continued from page 10)
German -Americans

of 1848, This young boy was ap-
parently inspired by the liberal tra-
dition in the family, for, at a very
young age, he joined the Pennsyl-
vania Infantry as a drummer-boy; he
subsequently lost a leg in the Battle
of Gettysburg at the age of 17.

“In spite of his handicap, he became
a post-office official in Freedom,
Pennsylvania where he raised a
family of six children, the second of
which was my grandmother. At 16, my
grandmother married a man of English
descent. Despite this fact, she con-
tinued to live in communities which
were largely German in population;
my mother, for example, spoke no
English until she entered public
school at the age of six.”

IHESE, I am sure, will be recognized

as typical Hians Meier life stories,
They typify and explain, in general
terms, the development of what we
call “the American way of life’ and
of how Hans Meier and his con-
temporaries were absorbed into this
way of life by the native Americans,
all of whom, with the single exception
of the American Indian, were
themselves, in turn, immigrants or the
descendents of immigranits.

It is important to remember that
many of the present American concepts
of freedom and democracy were at
least shared by, if they did not
originate with, millions of Europeans,

The so-called “Bill of Rights’, pro-
tecting the freedom and dignity of the
individual citizen, as written into the
Constitution of the United States and
into the constitutions of the German
States, and of the newly-formed Ger-
man Federal Government, represents
the development of centuries of man's
struggle for liberty, The early colo-
nists of the United States, before the
war of the revolution against British
rule, were, with few exceptions,
whole-hearted monarchists,

The government formed in the early
colonies after the attainment of
freedom from British rule did not, in
its Constitution, anywhere use the
word “democracy” and even the word
“republic” held its fears for some
early Americans.

HOMAS JEFFERSON, whom cone
of our political parties holds
forth proudly as the originator of the
democratic concept, is said to have
been convinced that government bya
simple majority of citizens could be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

as autocratic as a one-man tyranny,
and he especially distrusted the
irresponsible mobs of the great cities —
a phrase I have recengly heard used
in Germany, by people closely asso-
ciated with the newly formed and so-
called democratic parties in Germany.
In those days there occurred ithe same
old arguments over “states-rights”
and the centralization of federal
powers with which in Germany we
have again so recently become
familiar,

The requirement that a citizen be
a property holder before being entitled
to vote was lifted in the last of the
original 13 colonies only as late as
1856. You will recall that it required
a great war before the Negro secured
the right to vote. Free education for
all of the people was a development
of the last half of the last century
and was brought about almost directly
because of the presence of the
immigrant.

Karl Schurz, it is recalled, had a
great deal to do with the cleansing
of American politics and the return
to the common citizen of control of
his government from the hands of
professional politicians and the politi-
cal parties who had abused it through
operation of the so-called “spoils
system" and a politically controlled
civil service. The right to vote was
not accorded American women until
1920.

LL OF THESE rights and privileges
are now the property of the Ger-

‘man citizen, The German citizen’ will

retain them, however, only so long as
he learns to exercise, and combines
to exercise his right to direct control
of his community, state and federal
governments,

Power is a heady thing. Unless the
individual citizen, in the tremendous
might of his united number, restrains
them, some political party or some
powerful individual is sure, sooner or
later, to seize the power of govern-
ment and to exercise that power for
party or individual advantage, Govern-
ment of the people, by the people, for
the people then becomes government
of the people by the party for some-
individual or privileged group.

The individual German's ingrained
fear of making any kind of protest or
representation, or signing his name
to a document for fear of incurring
the displeasure of some public official
or politician must somehow be broken,
preferably by intelligent action and
education on the part of the respon-

20

sible democratic governments and
parties recently called into existence.

LL OF US here in Germany are

participating, in one way or
another, in the rebirth of a nation; a
re-birth attended in large measure by
anguished screams of resistance to
change, We are told many times, of
course, that the German is incapable
of self-government, that all of the
enterprising and freedom-loving Ger-
mans went to the United States as
emigrants and that only the sub-
servient remained behind.

We are told that conditions in the
United States are different and that,
therefore, the American ideas and
concepts which operate so well in the
United States cannot possibly work in
Germany. We are told that Americans
cannot comprehend or understand Ger-
man conditions or the German mind,

We are told by certain German
individuals, as though it were a dis-
covery on their part, that democracy
is not a thing which can be imposed
by an occupying power and that they
find the directives and orders issued
by. Military Government. dictatorial
actions — inconsistent with the prin-
ciples which the occupying powers so
often and so widely proclaim in the
name of democracy.

For all of this type of talk I like
the expressiveness of the German
word “Quatsch” (nonsense). What these
people mean is that because one does
not agree with their ideas in any or
all particulars, one cannot understand
their ideas, and that because there
exists disagreement in ideas, there
must exist personal, official and
national antagonisms,

Too often they mean also that an
idea cannot be a good one simply
because it is a new and unfamiliar
one. The Chinese were, for several
thousand years, noteworthy exponents
of that theory,

T HAS BEEN my experience that

when Germans complain that
certain principles, ideas and demo-
cratic concepts are inapplicable to
the German situation because condi-
tions in the United States are different,
what they usually mean to imply is
that the United States has such
tremendous wealth that it can well
afford to be prodigal in ‘all directions.
These people need to learn .that
individual enterprise, hard work, high
productive capacity and the ready
acceptance of new ideas constitute
the real wealth of the American
people.

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 24 ---
It is these assets which make possible
the best and fullest use of the country’s
natural wealth, Gold is not found in
the streets of our cities, There is
probably as much natural wealth in
Russia, China and, in proportion to
population, several other countries in
the world.

There is only one country in the
world today that can afford to carry
much of the rest of the world on its
back and that is the country in which
there exists the greatest degree of
free enterprise,

N REPLY TO the charge that we

are imposing democracy on Ger-
many, I should like to quote a short
passage from the official statement of
United States policy in Germany as
given in a directive to General Clay
by the United States Government
July 15, 1947:

“Your government does not wish to
impose its own historically-developed
forms of democracy and social organ-
ization on Germany, and believes
equally firmly that no other external
forms should be imposed. It seeks the
establishment in Germany of a poli-
tical organization which is derived
from the people and subject to their
control and operates in accordance
with democratic electoral procedures
and which is dedicated to uphold both
the basic civil and human rights of
the individual.”

Evidently, then, the United States
government is under no misapprehen-
sion in this respect. Indeed we might
even go much farther than do these
critics and say that neither can demo-
cracy be imposed by a German poli-
tical party organization nor by a
German federal or state government.
As a matter of fact, democracy cannot
be imposed, By its nature, it must be
rooted in the convictions of the
people themselves and must be
learned by experience and practice.

It is possible, however, to aid in
this process of learning by tactful
precept and example, by the extension
of encouragement and material aid,
and even, where necessary, by so-
called “dictatorial, “undemocratic”,
“militaristic’ order of Military Gov-
ernment to a political leader, political
party, governmental body or other
agency not to depart from the path
leading toward democratic government
of the people, by the people, and for
the people,

AM REMINDED in this connection
of a little parable of Abraham Lin-
coln recited by him in response to
criticism of his action in proclaiming

JULY 26, 1949

the freedom of the Negro from
slavery during our Civil War:

“The world has never had a good
definition of the word liberty, and the
American people, just now, are much
in want of one, We all declare for
liberty but in using the same word
we do not all mean the same thing.

“With some the word liberty may
mean for each man to do as he pleases
with himself and the product of his
labor; while with others the same
word may mean for some men to do
as they please with other men and
the product of other men's labor. Here
are two not only different, but in-
compatible things, called by the same
name—liberty. And it follows that
each of the things is, by the respective
parties, called by two different and
incompatable names—liberty and
tyranny.

“The shepherd drives the wolf from
the sheep's throat, for which the sheep
thanks the shepherd as a liberator,
while the wolf denounces him for the
same act as the destroyer of liberty,
especially as the sheep was a black
one.

“Plainly the sheep and the wolf
are not agreed upon a definition of
the word liberty, and precisely the
same difference prevails today among
us human creatures—all professing

daily passing from under the yoke of
bondage, hailed by some as the ad-
vance of liberty, and bewailed by
others as the destruction of all
liberty.”

T IS RECOGNIZED, of course, that

there is often confusion in what is
intended by the use of the word
democracy. However, there has existed
for four years an official definition of
the term as used by Military Gov-
ernment in reference to Germany. It
is found in Military Government Re-
gulations, set forth in the following
terms:

“Important Tenets of Democnacy—
All levels of German government in
the US Zone must be democratic to
the extent that:

a. All political power is recognized
as originating with the people and
subject to their control;

b. Those who exercise political
power are obliged regularly to renew
their mandates by frequent reference
of their programs and leadership to
popular elections;

c, Popular elections are conducted
under competitive conditions in which
not less than two effectively compet-
ing political parties submit their pro-
grams and candidates for public
review;

d, Political parties must be demo-

to love liberty. Hence we behold the cratic in character and must be

processes by which thousands are (Continued on next page)
°

| Under Secretary Tours Bizone

US Under Secretary of Agriculture A, J. Loveland inspects wheat grains at a
The under secretary toured the Bizonal Area to

flour mill near Frankfurt.

learn how much ERP aid would be necessary to bring the agriculture of

Germany up to the standards required by a self-supporting nation.

21

(US Amy photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
tecognized aS voluntary associations
of citizens clearly distinguished from,
rather than identified with, the
instrumentalities of government.

* e. The basic rights of the individual
including free speech, freedom. of
religious preference, the rights of
assembly, freedom of political asso-
ciation, and other equally basic rights
of free men are recognized and
guaranteed;

f, Control over the instrumentalities
of public opinion, such as radio and
press, must be diffused and kept free
from governmental domination; and

g. The rule of law is recognized as
the individual's greatest single pro-
tection against a capricious and
willful expression of governmental
power."

ITH THESE important tenets of
democracy in mind it is appro-
priate to quote certain excerpts from the
statement of the American Secretary
of State on US policy in Germany:

“The maintenance of restrictions
and control over the German economy
and a German state, even for a
protracted period, cannot alone
guarantee the west against the pos-
sible revival of a German threat to
peace, In the long run, security can
be insured only if there are set in
motion in Germany those forces which
will create a governmental system
dedicated to upholding the basic
human freedom through democratic
procedures,

“These constructive forces can
derive their strength only from the
renewed vitality of the finer elements
of the German cultural tradition. They
can flourish only if the German
economy can provide substance and
hope for the German people. They
can attain their greatest effectiveness
only through a radically new reci-
procal approach by the German people
and the other peoples of Europe. This
approach must be based on common
understanding of mutual benefit to be
derived from the voluntary coopera-
tive effort of the European community
as a whole,

“Through all of this effort, our
basic aim with respect to the Germans
themselves has been to help them
make the indispensable adjustments
to which I have just referred. We
have tried to help them to find the
way toward a reorganization of their
national life which would permit them
to make the great contribution toward
progress which they are unquestion-
ably capable of making,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“But it is important for us all to
remember that no one but the Ger-
mans themselves can make this ad-
justment, Even the wisest occupation
policy could not make it for them. It
must stem from them. It must be a
product of their own spirit. All that
others can do is to help to provide
the framework in which it may be
made.

“These are the conditions we
consider essential for a long-term
solution of the German problem. The
Purpose of the Washington agree-
ments, and of the other decisions
taken by the western powers, is to
bring about these required conditions
at the earliest practicable time. This
has been the consistent purpose of
the United States Government.”

N PROMULGATING the new Occu-

pation Statute, the Allies have
stated their intention to interfere as
little as possible in the internal
affairs and administration of the new
German government, Yet the statute
contains the reservation that in the
event of the development of any
threat to military security of the
Allies or abuse of authority in a
manner inconsistent with democratic
concepts and practices, the Allies
retain the right to reassume and to
exercise in whole or in part control
of the German government or any
of its offending agencies.

We may say then that the exercise

of any restraint on Germany by Mili-
tary Government may be expected to
continue only until such time as the
individual citizen in Germany learns,
through education and experience, to
exercise control of government and
political parties in his own right and
uses this control to develop Germany's
peaceful relationship in the family of
nations.

T IS FOR the German people to

determine whether that period is
to be a long one or a short one, The
opportunity for development is being
given them and it rests with them to
become familiar with the opportunities
being offered and to take advantage
of these opportunities. The occupation
powers cannot do it for them, the
Germans must do it themselves,

I should like to feel that history
will record, as the principal contri-
bution of the United States Occupation
Forces in Germany, the return to Ger-
many of the many benefits which
Hans Meier and his compatriots
conferred upon the United States in

exchange for the privilege of citizen-
land free of ©

ship and life in a
despotism,

Hans Meier, it is to be hoped, need

never again emigrate to a foreign ~
land to find political freedom, eco-~

nomic opportunity and respect for the
dignity of the individual. --END)

Lt. Robert D. Morris, Jr., receives a letter of commendation from Lt. Col. Philip

Berlin AFN Staff Honored

M. Johnson, Chief of Allied Forces Network, for the outstanding job the staff

performed in keeping the Berlin AFN station on the air 24 hours a day fo!
a period of one year providing entertainment for the air lift crews during the —
(US Army photo) ~

Jong hours after midnight.

22

JULY 26, 1949”

--- Page 26 ---
MG PROPERTY DIVISION DISSOLVED

Residual Property Responsibilities Assigned to German Agencies Under Super-
vision of Small American Staff Attached to OMGUS Office of Economics Adviser

HE PROPERTY Division of US

Military Government, responsible
in the US Zone for the restitution of
cultural items from Germany to their
rightful owners abroad, the dis-
mantling and shipment of industrial
capital equipment from the US Zone
to countries entitled to reparation
from Germany, the custody and safe-
guarding of absentee-owned, German
statecowned and Nazi Party-owned
property, was officially dissolved
June 30.

The closing down of MG property
activities, which at their height re-
quired a staff of US and German
personnel numbering thousands of
persons, and the reduction of this
organization to 25 American and 120
German employees for the entire US
Zone is in accordance with the
American occupation policy of reduc-
ing its operational and supervisory
activities to a minimum and of turn-
ing over all possible responsibilities
to competent German agencies.

The division, which was headed by.

Mr. Phillip Hawkins of Marion, Mas-
sachusetts, was formed from various
elements of the former Economics and
Finance Divisions in March 1948,

Mr. Hawkins announced that
residual Military Government property
functions will be carried out by a
small American staff composed of
specialists in each field, who will be
attached to the OMGUS Office of the
Economics Adviser in Berlin and
known as the Property Group, which
will be headed by Mr. Frank J. Mil-
ler of Buffalo, N. Y., fomerly special
assistant to the Director of Property
Division, and Mr. William G, Daniels
of Spokane, Washington, formerly
deputy chief of the Property Control
and External Assets Branch of
Property Division.

The Reparations and Restitution
Branch of the division, until ‘recently
under the supervision of Mr. Orren
R. McJunkins of Jacksonville, Florida,
has virtually completed its task of
Testituting property looted from other
Countries by Nazi Germany,

T= RESTITUTION program in-
volved the location, identification
and return of more than 2,000,000
items, having a value in excess of
$245,000,000. Claims for restitution
Covered a wide range of objects

JULY 26, 1949

varying from simple items, such as
luggage containing clothing, to price-
less art treasures. found in huge lots,
such as the Goering collection; and
famous Rembrandt and Rubens paint-
ings, rare books, religious objects
and folklore.

It has been impossible in many
such cases to assign any monetary
figure indicative of the real cultural
heritage value of these restituted
properties. Of the more than 20,000
claims received under the external
restitution program, more than 42
percent have been satisfied, the items
claimed having been located, identified
and returned,

In its reparations activities, the
Reparations and Restitution Branch
effected shipment to the 21 countries
entitled to reparation from Germany,
of property consisting of more than
229,000 tons of industrial capital
equipment from 105 war plants and
certain peacetime plants located in
the US Zone. Appraisal and dis-
mantling operations, which at their
peak employed over 17,000 workers,
were accomplished by experienced
Germans and displaced persons under
the supervision of UStechnical experts.

QUIPMENT RANGED from pre-

cision general purpose equip-
ment (i, e. not particulary adapted to
manufacture of wartime equipment)
in Hitler's aircraft factories to a large
shipbuilding works at Bremen. Special
war purpose buildings and equipment
were destroyed under the provisions
for liquidation of Germany's industrial
war potential unless they were adapt-
able to peacetime uses.

The Property Control and External
Assets Branch, under Mr. Fred E.
Hartzsch of Greenwich, Connecticut,
has controlled more than 150,000
properties since 1945.

Although the task of property
management now has been largely
completed, there still remain under
MG custody some 40,000 properties,
most of which are held because they
have been claimed for restitution by
victims of Hitler Germany.

These properties must be held in
custody as duress property, pending
the outcome of restitution claims.
About 225,000 such claims have been
filed in the US Zone of Germany
pursuant to MG legislation, ad-

23

ministered by German agencies and
courts and supervised by Military
Government, by or on. behalf of
persons who were deprived of their
property within Germany because of
racial or political persecution,

LL PROPERTIES which remained

in MG custody June 30 will,
until released from control, be ad-
ministered by a German agency at
Munich which was formed recently at
the direction of Military Government.
The agency is made up of top Ger-
man property control officials who
worked with and were trained by
MG property officials to assume
residual property control duties under
the supervision of a small group of
US personnel retained from the
former Property Division.

Most of the foreign-owned pro-
perties which were under MG property
control have been turned over to
agents of the owners or are being
placed in the hands of custodians in
absentia appointed at the direction of
Military Government and under super-
vision of the German courts.

OCUMENTATION proving the
existence of Germany's foreign
assets exceeding $75,000,000 in value
was established by investigators of
the External Assets Investigation
Section, headed by Mr. Herbert Sor-
ter of New York City. The existence
of other valuable foreign assets, such
as patents, licenses and other in-
tangibles which cannot be accurately
valued, were also discovered or
proved to be German owned. These
foreign assets are in general subject
to seizure as reparations: by the
country in which they are located.
The new Property Group of the
Office of Economics Adviser will
maintain a small American staff,
stationed in the American Zone, to
supervise the administration of the
US Zone Restitution Law. Each state
office of Military Government will
maintain a property adviser serving
principally in the capacity of a con.
sultant to the state director. The US
Sector of Berlin will not be affected
by the change, due to special circum-
stances existing there, and, for the
present, the Property Control Branch
of Military Government will continue
to function there.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Personnel Notes

Finance Division Deputy

Mr, Eldon J. \Cassoday, deputy di-
rector of the Property Division until
its dissolution July 1, has been named
deputy director of the Finance Divi-
sion, OMGUS. Mr. Cassoday has been
associated with Military Government
for the past four years. He was
formerly with the Finance Division
until March 1, 1948 when the Property
Division was formed. Before coming
to Germany he was an attorney with
the Office of General Counsel, US
Treasury Department.

The Finance Division also named
Mr, Richard H, Stern as acting ex-
ternal finance chief and Mr, Adolph
J. Warner as acting internal finance
chief of the Division's Internal and
External Finance Group. Mr. Stern,
who had his early schooling in Ger-
many, has been associated with the
Finance Division since July 1945,

Mr, Warner was associated with a
New York investment banking firm
Wertheim and Company from 1938
until 1943, and has been with the Fi-
nance Division for three years. In

1948 he was MG representative to the
United Nations Security Council's
Berlin currency hearings,

* * *

British Police Officials

Mr, Harry Studdy, chief constable
of the West Riding, Yorkshire Con-
stabulary (England), and Mr. Richard
D, Harrison, former commissioner of
police, Royal Ulster Constabulary
(North Ireland), completed a five-
week tour of the US Zone of Germany
and Berlin as expert consultants to the
Public Safety Branch, CAD, OMGUS.
They conferred with US public safety
officers, German chiefs of police and
other police officers for the purpose
of re-opening contacts between the
British and German police and arriv-
ing at an estimate of the extent to
which German police have accepted
principles of democracy in police
operations.

* * *

Returns as Consultant

Dr. Roger H. Wells, chairman of the
Political Science Department of Bryn

Brig. Gen. Charles D, W. Cankam (left), new commander of the Bremerhaven
Port of Embarkation, is welcomed to his new office by Col. H. T. Mayberry,
former commander, who will return to the United States as senior instructor
of the Tennessee National Guard. Gen. Canham was formerly assistant

division commander of the 82 A.B. Division at Ft. Bragg.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(US Army photo)

24

Educators with OMG Hesse hold a last
conference before personnel changes
in the division take place: (left to
right) Dr. Franz Montgomery, promoted
from higher education officer to
deputy chief of division; Dr. Marie
Schnieders from chief, cultural ex-
change branch to chief, higher educ-
ation; Dr, Leroy Vogel, from deputy
chief to chief of division; and Dr.
Vaughn R. De Long, division chiet, who
is returning to the United States
to assume an educational post in
Washington, DC. (PIO OMGH photo) —

Mawr college and a former deput
director of the OMGUS Civil Ad-
ministration Division, has returned ‘ol
Germany for three months as a visit-—
ing consultant on German affairs, He
is participating in the continuing de-
mocratization program of the Civil
Administration Division in wester
Germany.
* * *

Aide to Naval Adviser

Commander Earnest G. Campbell of
Washington, D.C, has been named
assistant chief of staff for logistics on
the staff of Rear Admiral John
Wilkes, Commander US Naval Forces,
Germany, and naval adviser to thi
US Military Governor. He succeeds:
Commander H. B. Blackwood, who 1s
going to the Western Sea Frontier,
Pacific Reserve Fleet in San Francis:
co, California.

* * *

Promoted to Group Chief

Mr. Gwynn Garnett, chief of the
Food Supply and Distribution Branch
of the BICO Food, Agriculture and
Forestry Group, has been appointed
chief of the group. He succeeds Mr,
Stanley Andrews, who has returnet
to the United States.

Mr, Garnett has been active in MG”
agricultural work since May 19
when he joined the Food and Agti-
culture Branch of the SHAEF Civ!
Affairs Division. He was formerly @
farm credit analyst and economist
the US Department of Agriculture. “e

JULY 26,

--- Page 28 ---
Occupation Log

Social Science Education

Seven German university professors
are now in the United States observ-
ing American university techniques
and materials in social science edu-
cation.

German college-level curricula, an
OMGUS official said, traditionally
have emphasized classical literature,
philosophy and religion, The attention
to economics, sociology, international
relations and political science has
been far smaller than that of Amer-
ican universities.

Each of the professors, who are
from west German universities and
the Free University of Berlin, are
spending two months at either Har-
vard University, University of Mi-
chigan, University of Chicago, Ohio
State University, or Pendle Hill
(Wallingford, Pennsylvania). In ad-
dition, they will devote a month to
professional contacts with economists
sociologists and political scientists,
both in government and in private
industry.

The German professors will observe .

first-hand how the study of sociology,
economics, political science, govern-
ment and international relations is
related in American classrooms to
events in the world beyond the
campus.

* * *

Visits to Berlin

Businessmen and other visitors may
now travel to the US and British sec-
tors of Berlin under conditions similar
to their entry into the three western
zones of Germany. It is the visitor's
own responsibility to ensure that his
travel papers are in order. This will
require having a valid national pass-
port endorsed by a Military. Permit
officer with a Military Entry Permit
valid for entry into the US or British
sectors of Berlin. Allied Military
Permit offices are located in all major
European capitols and in Washington,
D.C.

Visitors to Berlin must make their
Own arrangements for travel, accom-
modation and currency, since no fa-
Cilities can be afforded by US or Bri-
tish authorities there. They are stron-
gly advised to consult a recognized
travel agency and to book their travel
and accommodation well in advance.

JULY 26, 1949

Money by Mail

International money order service
from the US to the three western Zones
of Germany and the three Western
Sectors of Berlin has been re-establish-
ed. The US Post Office Department
and Communications Group, Office
of the Economic Adviser, OMGUS,
said that the one-way service is for
personal and charitable remittances,
under which money orders are pur-
chased in the United States for dol-
lars and are cashed in Western Ger-
many and Berlin for Deutsche Marks.
Resumption of the service provides
an easily accessible channel for direct
financial assistance by Americans to
telatives and friends in Germany,

* * *

Rights of Man

Willy Kurat, 21 year old Fritzlar
Pedagogical Institute student, won
more than the announced prize for
writing the best essay in an OMG
Hesse-sponsored contest for German
youth. The young student-teacher’s
democratic thinking, as expressed in
his thesis on the “Rights of Man,”
was judged the best of several thou-
sand entries and so impressed Mr. Por-
ter Perry, liaison and security officer
for the Fritzlar area, that the MG
officer is sponsoring Kurat for a
scholarship in the United States. For
his winning essay, Kurat also received
a set of valuable books and food-
stuffs.

The contest was an outgrowth of
the Fritzlar MG reorientation program,
which sponsored more than 70 town
hall meetings during one month. At
one of these student forums, dis-
cussion on the Hessian constitution
became so heated that Mr. Perry de-
cided to give all students of his area
an opportunity to express their ideas
in an essay contest. Thirteen prizes
were awarded youngsters of the Fritz-
lar area for their efforts in the com-
petition, which is scheduled to be
held periodically.

* x *
Student Theater Festival

University dramatic groups from
four foreign countries and Berlin are
participating in a University Theater
Festival sponsored by Erlangen Uni-
versity Studio Theater between July 24
and July 29. Twenty-seven actors

25

from the French Sorbonne will
present a modern French drama and
a medieval miracle play, The Uni-
versity of Vienna is represented by
nine student actors who are pro-
ducing J. B. Priestley's “Highway in
the Desert", and the Tudor Players,
famed English repertory company,
will present Marlowe's “Dr. Faustus.”
The University of Erlangen and the
Teachers College of Berlin will also
present severa] German and Ameri-
can plays during the five-day festival.

* * *
War Crimes Documentation

A three-volume comprehensive
study of the Nurnberg war crimes
trials and their effect on German
public opinion will be published by a
private British firm early next year
with Foreign Office approval. One
volume will be devoted to key docu-
ments introduced during the trials,
and the others to review and comment
by legal experts.

The study, first of its kind to be
published in Great Britain, will also
deal with the wider question of ac-
ceptance or non-acceptance of war
guilt by the German people. A six-
member editorial board is now work-
ing on the project.

A 10-volume review of the Inter-
national Military Tribunals entitled
“Nazi Conspiracy and Aggression”
was issued by the US Government
Printing Office in Washington, while
a 44-volume transcript of the case
was published at Nurnberg in both
English and German.

* * *
Ii the Shoe Fits ——

A long standing request of the Ba-
varian government for police juris-
diction over displaced persons camps
was pointedly refused by OMG Ba-
varia director Murray D. Van Wa-
goner.

In a letter to Dr.. Hans Ehard, Ba-
varian minister president, the OMGB
director said that Military Govern-
ment ‘could not agree to such a re-
quest until Bavarian police exercised
their existing jurisdiction over out-
of-camp displaced persons and en-
forced compliance with the food col-
lection and ration system by the Ba-
varian population as a whole,

He referred to reports from a dozen
cities in Bavarian where German po-
lice had taken insignificant action
against illicit trade and criminal prac-
tices on the part of non-German resi-
dents including displaced persons,
and emphasized that the police had

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
made only token efforts to break-up
extensive blackmarketing among the
Bavarian population.

“Various public officials have made
public statements of their non-support
of the collection quotas and ration
program in force," the director wrote.
“Thus these officials are encouraging
practices by the Bavarian population,
which practices by displaced persons
you have cited as illustrating the
necessity of extending the juris-
diction of the German police over
such persons.”

* * *

Industrial Notes

Huge gains made by the Bizonal
iron and steel industry during the
past 12 months were announced by
the Bipartite Commerce & Industry
Group, Production of steel ingots for
the fiscal year 1948/49 totalled
7,653,000 tons, a rise of 106 percent
over the previous fiscal year, The
1948/49 output of pig iron and hot
rolled steel products amounted to
6,261,840 tons and 5,208,700 tons, re-
spectively, representing increases of
108 percent in both cases,

Annual production rates in the Bi-
zonal iron and steel industry now
approximate 9,250,000 tons for steel
ingots, 7,250,000 tons for pig iron, and
6,250,000 tons in the case of hot rolled
steel products,

* * *

Helping Hand

German lawyers who have been
stumped by rules and technicalities
of US Military Government law can
now study it in a 100-page booklet
written by an American judge in
Bremen,

The book, entitled ‘A Civil Case,"
written in English and German, traces
an imaginary case in which a Ger-
man sues an American for damages
resulting from an automobile accident.
Written by Mr. Robert L. Guthrie,
presiding judge, First Judicial District
(Bremen), OMGUS, the pamphlet was
prompted by the increasing number of
civil actions in MG courts. Copies,
priced at DM 4 ($1.20), are available
by mail order from Geffkendruck,
Sedanstrasse 87/89, Bremen.

* * *

New Way of Living

Nine Hessian youngsters are being
selected to go to the United States for
one year to reside with American
tural families and attend American
high schools. The young Hessians, all
sons and daughters of local farmers,
are being sponsored by the Bretheren

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Service Commission of Elgin, Illinois.
Five girls and four boys from refugee
Or expellee families who expect to
make agriculture their career will be
chosen from the most promising can-
didates being nominated by Hessian
school directors and county presi-
dents,

* * *

Fish and Wild Life

Three German experts will leave
shortly on a four month mission ‘to
the United States to study conserva-
tion policies with a view toward their
possible application in a program of

democratizing Germany's hunting and
fishing laws. In the past, the right to
hunt and fish has ben limited to a
very small group of Germans,

The men will consult with officials
of the Forestry Service and the Soil
Conservation Service, Department of
Agriculture, the Fish and Wild Life
Service of the Department of the
Interior, as well as the Conservation
Foundation of New York and other
state agencies.

The men will be sponsored while
in the United States by the Office of
Foreign Agricultural Relations of the
US Department of Agriculture,

Baby Chicks Flown From America

One hundred chicks From America are displayed by their new owner, Mr
Herbert E. Boesch (left), in company with Mr. R. E. Cameron (right), Chief of the
Agricultural Programs Branch, Food and Agriculture Division, OMG Bavaria.
The day-old chicks made the trip by air from a Connecticut hatchery with th
loss of only one. Mr. Boesch as organizing a model poultry farm along
American lines near Wasserburg, Bavaria. With the four new American

breeds, “White Leghorns," “Rhode Island Reds,” “White Rocks” and “Barred
Rocks," Mr. Boesch hopes to raise the Bavarian poultry industry's average —

annual production per hen from 70 to 150-160 eggs.

26

(PIO OMGB photo)

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 30 ---
German Editorials

Chief attention of the US Zone
press was directed to the economic
crisis in England and the arrival of
Mr. McCloy.

In England's economic difficulties
the US Zone newspapers realized
that Germany's fate also was involved.
The press saw the problem as essen-
tially a dilemma between free enter-
prise and controlled economy and ex-
pressed the belief that this crisis
would continue and grow in intensity.

The papers could not entirely
conceal a certain amount of satis-
faction over England's troubles,

mixed with anxiety over the reper-
cussions that would follow in Ger-
many and Europe generally. They
pointed out that Britain's economic
attitude was not compatible with the
aims of ERP and did not fail to point
to the Ruhr dismantlings as examples
of injury to the common European
cause for selfish competitive motives.

* * *
British Economic Crisis
The Kasseler Zeitung (Kassel,

Hesse, July 2) sees a world economic
crisis looming and fears that Ger-
many will be involved:

“The tense satisfaction with which
the Soviet press eyes the growing
conflict between US and Great Britain
is significant ... Despite Marshall
Plan support to the tune of one
billion dollars annually Great Britain
has not been able to get on its eco-
nomic feet.... Meanwhile the tide of
unemployment is slowly but surely
tising in the USA, the heart of
western world economy... We here
in Germany can only watch and wait,
and also hope. An economic recession
in the western world will not leave
us unscathed.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart,
July 4) discussed the possible conse-
quences of the present Anglo-Ameri-
can economic dispute:

“The great question in the back-
ground is whether American industry
is still in a position and altruistic
enough to furnish the ERP billions for
a third year. West European politics
are almost completely dependent on
this. The situation that is developing
has two lessons for Germans.

“The first is, that we seem to be
entering an era in which a closer
relationship with the East Zone and

JULY 26, 1940

East Europe will not only be possible
but may even be forced upon us.
This relationship will start by being
economic but will undoubtedly carry
over into the political field. Those of
our politicians who strive to widen
the breach between East and West
Zones are today fighting a practically
forlorn battle...

“Secondly, it is very possible that
Great Britain's value to America as
an ally will soon sharply depreciate.
This would be tremendously impor-
tant for us Germans. If Anglo-Ameri-
can friction increases and Britain's
situation becomes weaker we may
expect that America may assign in-
creasing importance to Germany's
role on the continent .. .”

Kk oF  *
John J. McCloy

The future High Commissioner's
arrival was marked by banner-head-
lines and considerable space in news
reports and editorial comment. The
general tone was hopeful and ex-
pressed confidence in his ability and

good-will, tempered by a certain
amount of reserve, a wait-and-see
attitude.

Many editorials were devoted to
his personal qualities, past record
and proven capacity. His attitude as
expressed at his first press confe-
rence in Berlin and the broad outlines
of his program, such as a free and
prosperous Germany, foreign credits,
emigration of refugees and promotion
of east-west trade, were cited and
praised.

Die Abendzeitung (Munich, July 2)
saw McCloy as the right man in the
tight place:

“American circles recognize that
the High Commissioner's task will be
the most significant and difficult in
the foreign service ... He stands
at the most important outpost in the
cold war... As an opponent of the
Morgenthau-Plan he evolved the
Stimson Plan, which represented a
counter-proposal ... Only a man
who is thoroughly conversant with
every sort of political, economic and
administrative problem is fitted for
such a job. McCloy is that kind of
man.”

The Giessener Freie Presse (Giessen,
Hesse, July 4) thought that the fact

27

that the United States sends a man
of McCloy's caliber is a good omen
for Germany:

“But the last words that McCloy
heard before he departed were warn-
ings about the Germans... People
abroad tend to forget how hard it is
to be a perfect democrat in a country
where democracy is by no means
perfect. Military orders and petitions
are natural concomitants of an occu-
pation regime, but unnatural in a
democracy...

“The new phase which begins with
McCloy‘s arrival is also characterized
by intensified activity among the
millions of refugees and by growing
unemployment ... The occupation
powers may have reason to criticize
German methods of handling the
refugee problem. On the other hand,
their own methods of sqeezing
millions into an area already full and
then expecting the regular inhabitants
to assume the responsibility for the
social problems resulting will also not
Prove successful in the long run...
Fortunately the coming High Com-
missioner is a broad-gauged man who
may be expected to handle these
problems with skill and perspicacity."

x *
Elections and Refugees

The Bavarian government's action
in establishing nine voting districts
for refugees where they were restrict-
ed to voting for their own special
candidates for delegates to the Bundes-
tag (Federal assembly) caused ‘general
indignation throughout the American
Zone press, The measure was roundly
denounced as showing a shocking
lack of understanding of the very
elements of democratic procedure. It
was also very emphatically pointed
out that the arrangement hadn't a
constitutional leg to stand on, and
might even result in the court's de-
claring the whole election null and
void as concerned Bavaria and throw-
ing the entire delegation out of the
Bundestag.

The Frankfurter Rundschau (Frank-
furt, July 1) was shocked at Bavarian
restrictions on the voting rights of
refugees:

“This really lets the cat out of the
bag! It shows the refugees clearly
that they are merely tolerated. They
are told that they may vote only for
their own, that is, refugee candidates
for the Federal Legislature, but are
not permitted to vote on the general
list... New citizens are deprived of

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
part of their civic rights and degraded
to second-class citizens...

“The Bavarian government thus
makes itself guilty of a crass breach
of the Basic Law... The refugees
suffer as much from spiritual as well
as physical distress ... Now this is
deliberately intensified by disputing
their free voting privilege... Such
intolerance will bear bitter fruit...
How can a state expect its citizens to
be loyal when the state itself becomes
a law-breaker!”

The Fraenkischer Tag (Bamberg,
Bavaria, July 2) also condemned
Bavaria’s action in setting election
barriers between refugees and older
citizens:

“Such election procedures will have
profound psychological and political
effects... It will make it difficult to
assimilate the refugees into the life
of the communities after so clearly
demonstrating that they are still re-
garded as outsiders in a matter con-
cerning the exercise of their highest
democratic rights...

“When the political parties show
their interest in the refugees at other
times than just before an election
and put refugee candidates on their
own voting lists we will possibly be
in sight of a mutually satisfactory
solution of the problems between
them and the original populations.”

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich,
July 2) credited the Bavarian govern-

ment with good but mistaken inten-
tions in setting up separate voting lists
for refugees and others but pointed
out possible disastrous consequences:

“Possibly the government was
encouraged by the fact that the Free
Democrats and Social DemocraticParty
of Germany did not vote against the
measure but merely abstained.
Neither did MG make any objec-
tions... The idea was to let the
refugees have their own representa-
tives in the Federal legislature ...
But since the measure is clearly un-
constitutional it may well be that the
courts would declare the elections of
the Bavarian. delegates null and void,
with the fantastic result that Bavaria
would not be represented at all at
the opening of the Federal ‘Council.”

* * *

Stumbling Block

The Nuernberger Nachrichten (Nu-
remberg, Bavaria, July 4) sharply
criticized Germany's political parties
as a stumbling block on the way to
democracy:

“They actually stand between the
German and democracy, Because he
distrusts the one, he has no confi-
dence in the other. Such distrust has
basis and justification. It arises from
the fact that in 1918, as heirs of the
monarchy, the parties themselves set
up an authoritarian system... The
fight against the monarchy changed

»Ob ich mein Bein wohl bald wieder ausstrecken darf +
Cartoon from Weser Kurier (Bremen) shows bed divided inio west and east
zones with the caption: ‘I wonder whether I may soon streich my legs again?”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

over into a ruthless struggle of the
parties against one annother, which
necessarily ended in a_ one-party
dictatorship...

“The same spirit prevails today—
party interests transcend the good of
the country as a whole... After an
election, delegates and officials feel
themselves relieved of any need to
consult the people who elected them...
The close intertwining of parliament
and bureaucracy, of the legislative
and executive branch of government,
tends to foster this state of affairs...
This is an insidious disease of our
democracy and it seems probable that
it will carry over into the coming
Federal Republic.”

* * *

Marshall Plan Idea

The Nordsee Zeitung (Bremerhaven,
June 11) explained the underlying
Marshall Plan idea to Germans:

“It is not a question of accepting
in a mildly grateful spirit a great gift
of dollars from a rich philantropist to
whom a few million or billion dollars
do not matter, with never a thought
of ever paying it back.

“The real meaning is that America
has decided to spend a large sum in
order to aid Europe to help itself and
start European cooperation which will
make Europe as a whole an economic
partner of America. Experience has
shown that, without this there can be
no healthy world economy... Our
acceptance of the Marshal] Plan
means that we have undertaken the
responsibility to plan and rebuild for
European and German interests, not
merely for selfish German interest.”

* * *

Germany and the World

The Kasseler Zeitung (Kassel, Hesse,
June 10) questioned the wisdom of
the “Nauheim Circle's” plan for a
Germany neutral between east and
west:

“It's an attractive idea... But the
dangerous factor would be the Ger-
man people themselves, who possess
neither the economic stability nor the
political experience required for such
a role. That would need the adapt-
ability of the French, the cool calcu-
lation of the British, the robust self-
confidence of the American and above
all the stubborn love of freedom of
the Swiss,

“That's where the risk and the
Soviet opportunity would lie. We sug-
gest that Dr. Noacks's attractive plan
be tabled for the time being and that
we await further development in
Germany.”

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 32 ---
(Continued from page 8)
Educational Service Center

lin children in grades 6, 7, 8, 9 and
12 have been tested. As the tests are
developed and administered, the
director of the test research meets
with the school superintendents and
explains the purpose of the test re-
search program and the results achiev-
ed. Educators may then adapt the
curriculum more successfully to chil-
dren's needs.

A plan has been suggested for a
small child guidance clinic in the
Pedagogical Hochschule as an experi-
mental and demonstration center for
teachers and students. The clinic
would be sponsored by the center
and would attempt to analyze child-
ren's learning and behavior difficult-
ies, developing the mental hygiene
point of view of adapting the school
to the child's needs rather than forc-
ing the child to conform to a pre-
conceived program worked out by
adults,

F SPECIAL importance in stimu-

lating educators to try these new
ideas have been the lecture-discussion
meetings held by the center during
the months of May, June and July.
This series of meetings introduced a
new pattern, substituting for a single
long lecture a shorter talk with a
chairman to bring in audience parti-
cipation and discussion, Besides the
speaker and chairman there were pre-
sent 10 prominent German educators
to help keep the discussion lively and
to the point.

For the May discussion meetings
the “Jena Plan" was selected as the
topic. The “Jena Plan" was originated
by Peter Petersen, German professor in
Jena University, Thuringia, during
the years 1926—1933. It advocates
teacher-child planning, inclusion of
parents in school activities and eval-
uation of children’s work, and sug-
gests that each community should
take part in planning its own schools
with a minimum of state control. The
equipment and curriculum of the
“Jena Plan" school was flexible and
adapted both to child and commun-
ity needs. During the academic year
1928—29, Prof, Petersen was a visitor
of the George Peabody College for
Teachers in Nashville, Tenn., where
he lectured and demonstrated the
plan with American children in the
college demonstration school,

UNE AND July discussions con-
sidered the child’s needs in re-
lation to what his school offers. An
average of 200 outstanding educators

JULY 26, 1949

A combined GYA summer camp for Berlin children was opened July

11 on

the shores of Lake Wannsee. Each GYA club sends 40 children per week to
the camp for a period of one week, making a total of 200 children. During the
entire season it is estimated that some 1800 children will have enjoyed the

camp.

of Berlin were regular attendants at
the weekly meetings. Several express-
ed their enthusiasm for the oppor-
tunity to discuss and compare ideas
in an informal atmosphere.

One said, “we feel we are coming
together on neutral ground; able to
utter freely our opinions about all
topics under discussion.”

Another remarked that “for the first
time, young people dared to express
themselves freely even though many
outstanding German educators, their
superiors, were present. At the cen-
ter,” he concluded “there is a friend-
ly, comrade-like atmosphere.” -+END

Trade with Poland

A one year trade and payment
agreement between Poland and the
American, British and French Occu-
pied Zones of Germany was con-
cluded July 5. The agreement provides
for commercial exchanges exceeding
$70,000,000 and creates possibilities
for the development of natural trade
between the two areas.

Poland will supply, among other
things, $32,000,000 worth of rye,
sugar, oats, barley, pulses, eggs and
poultry.

The western occupied zones of
Germany will supply Poland, among
other things, with $18,000,000 worth
of machinery and industrial equip-
ment, They will also supply fine me-
chanics and optics, chemicals, metal
goods, stones and earths and certain
consumer goods.

29

(US Army photo)

The payment agreement provides
for an offset account in the National
Bank of Poland, kept in dollars, and
for a quarterly settlement of bal-
ances due.

Trains to Berlin

Under the terms of an agreement
with Soviet transport officials con-
tained in the minutes of a recent four-
power transport conference held in
Berlin, the Western occupying powers
may now operate 19 trains per day,
including German passenger trains,
from the west into the western sec-
tors of Berlin. (Formerly 17 trains,
including inter-zonal German passen-
ger trains were the maximum al-
lowed.)

These are powered by engines pro-
vided by the Soviet Zone Reichsbahn,
Negotiations on the part of the
Western Allies with the Russians to
use engines from the Bizonal Area
for speeding rail transport to Berlin
failed to win Soviet agreement.

Political Group Licensed

“The Alliance for Defense against
Bureaucracy and for the Maintenance
of Civil Rights” was licensed by
OMG Bavaria to operate as a political
group in Munich. According to the
application, the organization aims to
eliminate the harmful effects of un-
sound bureaucracy on public and
commercial life, and to support the
civil rights of the individual.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Official Notices

Clarification of Facilities Changes

To clear up misunderstandings which have
arisen regarding the gasoline ration for
foreign travelers in Germany, JEIA empha-
sizes that under no circumstances will foreign
visitors be permitted to buy gasoline for
German-owned vehicles.

Under the new travel regulations announced
by JEIA on June 2, a ration of 200 liters
(about 50 Gallons) per week was established
for foreign tourists and business men with
their own cars. It has been reported that a
number of foreign visitors have hired or
borrowed German vehicles under the mis-
apprehension that they are entitled to this
ration for such vehicles, This is not true
and it is the responsibility of issuing offices
to refuse gasoline coupons in such instances.

Vehicle registration papers, passport and
currency control book must be presented upon
applying for gasoline coupons, and the quan-
tity of gasoline issued, date of issuance, etc.,
will be entered on the currency control book
of the owner of the vehicle. German car
owners are not entitled to gasoline from the
sources available to foreigners. — From JEIA
announcement.

x K *

Payment for international telephone services
in dollar instruments by agencies and persons
from whom US Army communications support
is being withdrawn by EUCOM Circular No. 2
is permissible after July 1.

Like German business firms, agencies losing
communications support may apply for li-
censes from JEIA to pay for international
telephone calls in Deutsche marks. If the
applications are denied, or pending action on
them by JEIA, those agencies may make spec-
ial arrangements with the Deutsche Post to
pay in dollar instruments for international
telephone calls from a subscriber telephone.

Such arfangements may provide for payment
in dollar checks drawn on the American
Express Company or Chase National Bank by
all agencies, or in US military payment certif-
icates (MPC's) by agencies permitted con-
tinued use of MPC's under Circular No. 2.

Persons and agencies losing communications
support but retaining the use of MPC’s may
also continue to obtain, for payment in MPC’'s,
all international telecommunications services
furnished at the special Deutsche Post com-
munications stations maintained throughout
the US Zone for service to the occupation
forces, — From OMGUS announcement.

*x* * *

Post commanders are granted discretion to
allow business organizations and their per-
sonnel reasonable time to carry out their
transition to German economy in a reasonable
manner, so that they do not have to disrupt
their business operations while each individual
finds a way to live.

The effective date of Circular 2 is July 1,
and it is expected that there will be a tran-
sition period of two months. The entire tran-
sition of these organizations to the German
economy must be completed by Aug. 31.

No facilities are authorized after July 1 for
newcomers and tourists. The transition is only
for those people whose facilities for living
and working have been meshed with the
Army and must be disentangled. — From
EUCOM announcement.

Scrap Exports

All previous regulations regarding the
procedure for screening and approving scrap
export contracts in western Germany have
been revised. Effective July 1, scrap exports
are made in accordance with JEIA Instruc-
tion No. 1, the basic JEIA regulation dealing
with export procedure in the western zones.

This means that German dealers may now
sell scrap in any quantities to any foreign
buyer from countries with whom the Trizone
has a trade agreement.

Previously, all scrap export contracts had
to follow a standard form and allocations

INFORMATION BULLETIN

generally were made in accordance with
recommendations of the OEEC ad hoc com-
mittee on steel scrap in Paris.

Also, it means that JEIA no longer insists
on the deposit of “earnest money”, which
ranged from 10 to 20 percent of the total
contract value, before the contract can be
approved, However, the German supplier
may continue to require ‘‘earnest money’ if
he wishes.

It was also pointed out that scrap export
contracts still require approval by the JEIA
main office, as scrap is one of the items
listed in Appendix B of Instruction No. 1 as
requiring JEIA approval.

Pending contracts previously filed with
JEIA for approval are returmed to the ex-
porter for processing under the new
arrangements. — From JEIA announcement.

Reserve Officer Commitments

Age-in-grade maximums for renewing the
extended active duty commitments of reserve
officers are specified in Department of the
Army Special Regulations 135-215-5 recently
received by Headquarters, European Command.
The regulations do not affect category com-
mitments now held by reservists,

These maximums are: 60 years of age for
warrant officers, 40 years for second
lieutenants, 43 for first lieutenants, 46 for
captains, 51 for majors, 55 for lieutenant
colonels, and 60 for colonels. The maximums
do not apply to officers of the Medical
Division, Judge Advocate Corps, Corps of
Chaplains or the Womens's Army Corps.

An officer whose civilian component is
ORC or National Guard and who is now
serving on extended active duty may not
sign a new category I, II, or III statement
that will expire after the last day of the
month in which he would reach the maximum
age in the grade in which he is serving. —
From EUCOM announcement.

Shipping Restrictions Lifted

All geographical limitations on German
shipping have been lifted effective July 1.

The new policy was effected through the
cancellation of paragraph 5 of JEIA Instruc-
tion No. 17, dealing with management of
German shipping. This paragraph limited
trading by German ships to Brest, the United
Kingdom, Scandinavia and Finland,

Paragraph 5 also restricted German ships

to the catriage of German exports and
German imports or transit cargoes for German
ports, with certain exceptions, With the
cancellation of this paragraph, these
testrictions are also eliminated,
__These changes are expected to permit the
inauguration of liner freight services to
Spain and Mediterranean, Adriatic, North
African and near East ports. A number of
applications for such services are now
awaiting approval,

Until now, the bulk of German shipping
activities has been tramp trading in the
Baltic and North Sea, though about a dozen
cargo liner services in these areas have been
operating,

Western Germany's fleet now consists of
about 1,100 ships, bigger than 1,500 gross
negister tons, with a total gross registered
tonnage of about 270,000 tons. — From JEIA
announcement,

British Policy Restatement

A firm reiteration of the British Govern-
ment’s traditional policy of according asylum
to political refugees was given in the House
of Commons by the Minister of State,
Mr, Hector McNeil. Replying to the question
whether he was aware that a statement about
Political refugees, made by a British Military
Government spokesman in Germany, was open
to misinterpretation, Mr. McNeil said that on
May 10 a British Military Government spokes-
man made the following statement:

30

“Soldiers of the Soviet Army or other
Soviet citizens who cross inadvertently or
without wrong intent into the British Zone
and who wish to return to the Soviet Zone
will in the future, as in the past, be returned
without delay. We expect reciprocity of treat-
ment in the case of British soldiers or civilians
who may stray into the Soviet Zone.

“Persons, whether soldiers or civilians and
whether citizens of the Soviet Union or any
country, who seek political asylum in the
British Zone of Germany will not be forcibly
repatriated. In this we are governed by the
long-standing British tradition of granting
political asylum to all who genuinely seek it
regardless of race, nationality or creed.”

“This statement,’ said Mr. McNeil, ‘‘seems
to me perfectly clear. Iam informed, however,
that the statement was published only in part
in certain German newspapers and that this
circumstance may have given rise to that mis-
leading idea of our policy to which the Hon.
Member refers."*

A British Government spokesman in Berlin
declared in connection with Mr. McNeil's
statement that in recent weeks the Soviet
propagandists through the Soviet-controlled
press and radio had been doing their utmost
to discredit the traditional British custom of
granting political asylum.

It was, he said, an all too-familiar Soviet
propaganda practice to launch false allegations
about the policies and institutions of the
Western democracies in order to try to divert
the attention of the populations of the Eastern
“police states from the suppression of their
basic human rights and the attendant apparatus
of the secret police concentration camps and
forced labor under which they suffered. —
From CCG(BE) announcement.

German Traffic Cases

Reckless driving and grossly negligent or
deliberate disregard of traffic and safety
regulations have reached a point where they
endanger the safety and security of the armed
forces and the lives, health and property of
personnel of the occupation forces, as well as
of the German public. Measures heretofore
taken by German law enforcement and judicial
authorities have been insufficient to curb or
control such violations.

The attention of the minister of justice of
each state is called to the unsatisfactory
situation as it exists at present with respect
to the handling of traffic violations by the
law enforcement authorities and it is to be
impressed upon him the necessity that every
effort be made to ensure speedy adjudication
of traffic cases.

For that purpose all necessary steps should
be taken to assure the widest possible use
of criminal proceedings by Strafbefehl (order
to inflict punishment or fine), and that, where
this procedure is used, a Strafbefehl is issued
and served upon the traffic violator within
one week after occurrence of the traffic
violation; that, if Strafbefehl proceedings are
not used, the public prosecutor initiates,
wherever possible, criminal action within two
weeks, availing himself in all suitable cases
of the right to demand trial in summary pro-
ceedings (Beschleunigtes Verfahren) as pro-
vided by Sections 212 et seq. of the German
Code of Criminal Procedure.

All Military Government officials charged
with responsibilities in connection with the
fields of law enforcement and judicial pro-
cedures are enjoined to give full cooperation
and assistance in the carrying out of the fore-
going directions—From OMGUS letter AG
010.8 (LD), June 29, 1949.

Property Control Change

Persons who formerly have communicated
with the Property Control and External Assets
Branch of OMGUS Property Division concern-
ing their properties are advised to write in
the future to the Hauptbuero fuer Ver-
moegenskontrolle and Wiedergutmachung in
der US Zone, 11 Thierschstr., Munich, Germany
(the OMGUS-trained and sponsored German
agency), or to the Land Civilian Agency Head

JULY 26, 1949

--- Page 34 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

The European Recovery Program, Joint Re-
port of the United States and United King-
Hom Military Governors, No. 3, March 1949.

Monthly Report of Public Safety Statistics,
CAD OMGUS (Bad Nauheim), 27 May 1949.

Assumption of Command, General Orders
No 2, Hq EUCOM, 31 May 1949,

Monthly Report of the Control Commission
for Germany, Vol. 4, No. 5, Hq CCG (BE,
May 1949,

Military Government Law No. 20, ‘Election
of Certain Public Officials to the First Bundes-
tag”, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS, 2 June 1949.

Ordinance to Alleviate Social Hardship
(Immediate Aid Ordinance), Economic Council
Ordinance No. 71, BIB/P (49) 99, 10 June 1949.

Packing, Documentation, and Shipping of
Household Goods, Baggage, Automobiles, Pets
and Effects, C 8 Cir 76 (26 Aug. 1948), Hq
EUCOM, 15 June 1949,

Bipartite Commerce and Industry Group
Weekly Report No, 51—Report Week Ending
15 June, 1949, PIO, OMGUS.

Administration Economy Program, Circular
No. 33, Hq EUCOM, 17 June 1949.

Transfer of Responsibility for Publishing
Statistical Data to the German Administration,
BISEC/Sec (49) 267, 17 June 1949,

Bipartite Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Group Weekly Report No. 48—Report Week
Ending 17 June 1949, PIO, OMGUS,

Financial Aid to Berlin, BICO/P (49) 108,
Joint Secretariat, BICO, 18 June 1949.

Economic Council Ordinance No, 121, ‘Or-
dinance Concerning the Combined Fconomic

Area tor the Fiscal Year 1949’ BICO/P (49)
59/1, Joint Secretariat, BICO, 20 June 1949.

Downgrading of Classified Cables, AG
380.01 (AG), OMGUS, 21 June 1949,

Deactivation of Bremen Section, 7780th
OMGUS Group, General Orders No. 29,
OMGUS, 24. June 1949.

Files Dealing with Civilian Personnel, AG
201.3 (SG), OMGUS, 24 June 1949.

Bipartite Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Group Weekly Report No. 49—Report Week
Ending 24 June 1949, PIO, OMGUS.

Economic Press Digest, No. 54, OMGUS, PIO
(Frankfurt), 24 June 1949,

Berlin Press Review, No 146, OMGUS, 25
June 1949,

The Army and Airforce Build Character,
TIZE Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 26. 16 June 1949.

Legal Gazette (Oeffentlicher  Anzeiger) of
the Combined Economic Area Issue No, 50
dated 25 June 1949, BICOV/GL (49) 152, Joint
Secretariat, BICO, 27 June 1949.

Charter of the Allied High Commission for
Germany, TRIB/P (49) 42 (Final), Twipartite
Secretariat, 27 June 1949.

Deactivation of Hesse Section, 7780th
OMGUS Group, General Orders No, 21.
OMGUS, 28 June 1949,

Traffic Cases in German Courts, AG 010.8
(LD), OMGUS, 29. June 1949,

Claims Arising from ‘Operation Showers"';
and Driver Training, AG 150 JA, Hq EUCOM,
29 June 1949.

General License No. 12 Issued under MG
Law No. 53, AG 680.44 (FD), OMGUS, 29
June 1949, .

Technical Assistance Under European Re-
covery Program, BICO/ERP/SEC (49) 115,
BICO, ERP Seoretariat, 1 July 1949, Outlines
technical assistance available and channels
open to German businessmen for obtaining

same,

Berlin Press Review, No. 153, OMGBS,
July 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 154, OMGBS,
5 July 1949,

Economic Council Ordinance No, 131 (Or-
dinance to Revise Miners’ Insurance Benefits),

BICO/P (49) 115, Joint Secretariat, BICO,
5 July 1949,

Heute (in German) No. 88, ISD OMGUS
6 July 1949.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 116, “To
Simplify the Penal Provisions of Economic
Legislation BIB/P (49) 115, Bipartite Secre-
tariat, 7 July 1949,

Financial Problems of the Coal Industry,
BICO/Memo (49) 73, Joint Secretariat, BICO,
7 July 1949.

The Rias Audience in Western Berlin, Re-
Port No. 181, Opinion Surveys, ISD OMGUS,
7 July i949,

German Economic Press Review, No. 196,
OEA CCG (BE), 8 July 1949.

German Views on Denazification, Opinion

Surveys, Report No. 182, ISD OMGUS, 11
July 1949,

Berlin Press Review, No. 160, OMGBS, 12
July 1949,

German Economic Press Review, No. 187,
OEA CCG (BE), 12 July 1949.

Information Bulletin, No, 165, CO OMGUS,
12 July 1949.

(chief German property control official) of the
German state in which their property is
located. The Land authorities may be adressed
as follows:

Bavaria: Bayerisches Landesamt
moegensverwaltung, Muenchen,
tenplatz 16

Hesse: Landesamt fuer Vermoegenskontrolle
und Wiedergutmachung, Wiesbaden, Bieb-
ticher Allee 142

Wuerttemberg-Baden: Finanzministerium, Ver-
waltung fuer Gesperrte Vermoegen, Stutt-
gart S, Heusteigstr. 46

Bremen: Oberfinanzpraesident im Lande Bre-
men, Amt fuer Vermoegenskontrolle, Bremen,
Haus des Reiches.

However, if agents have been appointed by
absentee owners to represent their properties
in the US Area of Control of Germany, or
if custodians in absentia have been designated
by German courts at the direction of Military
Government, the absentee owners are advised
to communicate directly with the agents or
custodians in matters affecting their prop-
erties,

Matters which are not of a routine nature,
or which may involve complaints requiring
the attention of Military Government, may
still be addressed to OMGUS, Office of the
Economics Adviser, Property Group, APO 742,
US Army.

Communications concerning reparations or
external restitution should be addressed by
missions concerned to the Reparations and
Restitution Liaison Office, Property Group,
OMGUS, APO 757, US Army, Frankfurt/Main.

Export Orders Unblocked

Under a revised policy agreement, the
Western Military Governments have made
alrangements to permit the export from Ger-
many of certain classes of goods contracted
for before the beginning of the occupation.

Full recognition is to be given to advance
Payments already made under such contracts.
The classes of goods for which application
for export may be filed under this policy are
as follows:

(a) Goods in’ existence manufactured in
Germany for United Nations nationals (or their
successors in law) where title to such goods
has passed under German law to UN con-
tractors prior to capitulation and remains in
UN contractors as of date of application for
export,

fuer Ver-
Prinzregen-

JULY 26, 1949

(b) Goods in existence owned by United
Nations nationals (or their successors in law)
which were shipped into Germany under
customs bond for processing or repair.

(c) Goods in existence in transit through
Germany at the time the occupation began.

Manufacturing or processing charges not
yet paid must be paid in acceptable foreian
exchange. These and all other charges out-
standing against the property, except those
resulting from Military Government's embargo
on the goods, must be paid before an export
license will be granted. Charges resulting
from the embargo will be paid by the goverm-
ments of the German ‘states concerned.

Applications should be submitted to JEIA,
Frankfurt-am-Main, Attn.: Export Branch, and
should be accompanied by documentary
evidence of the contract, invoices indicating
the total contract price, the amount paid
thereof and the balance due, and proof of
title.

JEIA will not accept responsibility for any
questions involving German or other national
law, and in the event of disagreement
between the claimant, the seller, the present
holder of the goods or any third party, such
dispute should be settled by mutual agree-
ment of such parties, or by a certified copy
of a court judgment relating thereto. Com-
pleted application form together with support-
ing documents must be filed with the JEIA
Branch Offices in the states in which the
goods are located before January 6, 1950.

An instruction covering the detailed pro-
cedure to be followed by applicants for the
approval and licensing of the export of goods
covered by this revised policy agreement will
be issued by JEIA at an early date.—From
OMGUS announcement.

Uniform Import Procedure

The import procedure in force in the Bizone
(JEIA Instruction No. 29, dated Feb. 28, 1949)
became applicable to the French Zone July 15,
the Joint Export Import Agency announced.

The original Instruction No. 29 did not apply
to the French Zone nor to the Western Sectors
of Berlin. Addendum A extended JEIA In-
struction No. 29 to the Western Sectors of
Berlin as of May 2, 1949.

Since April 11, an interim procedure was in
force in the French Zone, It provided that all
imports in the Frendr Zone would be made
on behalf of a designated German consignee,

31

either by the JEIA Branch Office in Baden-
Baden or by a German importer direct, within
the credits allotted by the quarterly import
plan set up by the French Military Government,

German importers in the French Zone, like
those of the Bizone, can now make direct
applications for imports to the Aussenhandels-
banken, or Foreign Trade Banks, under the
Procedure and regulations established by
JEIA Instruction No. 29 and the Import
Advisory Committee,

The Import Advisory Committee which makes
weekly foreign currency allotments required
for the financing of imports will now cover
the French Zone. The membership of the
Import Advisory Committee will be increased
from 7 to 9 by intergration of representatives
of the French Military Government and of the
German Administration for Economics, Food,
Agriculture and Forestry in the French Zone.

The Aussenhandelsbanken (foreign ‘trade
banks) necessary for the carrying out of the
procedure under Instruction No. 29 are already
in operation in the French Zone.—From JEIA
announcement,

New York Trade Office

A “German Industry Exhibition Post Affairs
Office’’ will be maintained in New York to
answer inquiries arising out of the Military
Government German Exhibition which was
held in New York in April.

The operation of the office will be the
responsibility of the German committee for
the Exhibition and the Foreign Trade Working
Group (Arbeitsgemeinschaft Aussenhandel der
Wirtschaft) under supervision of the Verwal-
tung fuer Wirtschaft (German Economics Ad-
ministration) and will be located at room
1807, Fifth Avenue, New York.

The expenses of the office will be met from
the unexpended portion of the funds of the
Military Government German Exhibition. These
funds were obtained from the proceeds of
German exports.—From JEIA announcement.

Blank Forms

Source of supply for European Command
blank forms to state and Military Government
agencies is through local Military Post in
accordance with provisions of SOP 106, Head-
quarters European Command, dated Nov. 23,
1947.—From OMGUS letter’ AG 315 (AG),
June 28, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Are the US Occupation Forces taking
any action to reduce the population
of Germany?

The US Occupation Forces and the
US Government are acting to reduce
overcrowding in Germany in two
ways: First, by facilitating the resettle-
ment of United Nations Displaced
Persons, and secondly, by permitting
the emigration of Germans and ethnic
Germans abroad.

Since the end of hostilities 2,527,973
displaced persons have been repatri-
ated and 234,049 moved to new homes
abroad. Present legislation allows
205,000 displaced persons to emigrate
to the United States by the end of
1950; this legislation is at present
under review by Congress and there
is a strong possibility that the number
who will be allowed to enter the
United States will be increased, per-
haps to as much as 400,000.

Normal German emigration to the
United States has been resumed with
the provision that half of the quota of
26,000 persons per year must be
ethnic Germans. Emigration to other
countries is possible for all Germans
with certain restrictions on the
emigration of essential manpower. The
German population of the US Zone
will be further reduced by _ the
movement of refugees to the French
Zone of Germany, which is currently
being carried out.

In the long run, American aid to
the economic recovery of Germany
will substantially help relieve the
overcrowded conditions by assisting
Germany to care for her larger popu-
lation. (CAD-OMGUS)

* * *

Is it true that JEIA is not permitted
to use ECA funds to purchase ma-
terials from eastern European coun-
tries?

This is not true. ECA officials re-
cognize and have repeatedly stated
that trade between eastern and
western Europe is essential to Euro-
pean recovery. JEIA has purchased
considerable quantities of materials
from eastern European countries and

UESTIONS

and ANSWERS

is continuing to do so. An example
of this is the recent purchase of
freight cars from Czechoslovakia and
Hungary for approximately $7,000,000,
although Czechoslovakia and Hungary
are not ERP-participating countries.
(JEIA)

* * *

Why did we have to lose so much
of our hard-earned savings through
the currency reform?

A few sober figures are the best
evidence that the Reichsmark was no
longer a currency in 1945, but worth-
less paper. In 1932 Germany had a
sound and orderly budget. On May 8,
1945 the national debt amounted to
almost RM _ 800,000,000,000, Through
irresponsible use of the printing plates,
the amount of currency in cir-
culation was also increased from
RM_ 6,000,000,000, to almost RM
70,000,000,000. On the basis of these
figures, it is obvious that the German
mark lost its value in 1938 through
Hitler's armament inflation, and not
in 1948 through the currency reform.
(OMGWB)

* * *

The booklet entitled “Das Euro-
paeische Wiederaufbauprogramm”
(European Recovery Program) states:
“The Marshall Plan Administration
will do everything possible to reduce
purchases through missions of the
individual Governments and to pro-
mote business between individual ex-
porters and importers.” Does that
apply also to German businessmen?
Naturally. One of the most impor-
tant objects of the Marshall Plan is
the recovery of individual enterprise
and business relations between in-
dustrialists. That applies to Germany

In this section are printed the best
and most repeated questions and answers
which are forwarded to the Information
Bulletin. Questions, especially those
addressed by Germans to occupational
personnel, may by sent to the Editor,
and the competent authority on the
subject will be requested to prepare
the reply. The questions must be
confined to the sphere of US Military
Government or affiliated activities in
Germany.

just as much as it does to any of
the other 18 countries participating
in the Marshall Plan. We hope indeed ~
that the German businessman in the

not too distant future will be able, f
under the Marshall Plan, to do his
c |

own buying in foreign countries and
to open personal relations
foreign businessmen just as the busi-
ness representatives in other coun-
tries participating in the Marshall
Plan. (ECA)

* aK *

|

Why does JEIA export electric power
to France and Belgium when there
is a shortage in Germany's industrial
plants? Could we not get better re-
turns by making this power available
to German factories?

The mere fact that there are power
stations in one area does not ne-
cessarily mean that electric power can —
be transmitted economically over un-
limited distances within Germany, ©
A great deal of plant equipment —
is needed to maintain and operate —
inter-connecting lines. Today Ger-
many does not have all this equip-
ment. It is considered more advanta-_
geous economically to sell power to
Belgium and France in return for
needed raw materials than it is to ~
transmit this power a longer distance | i
within Germany or to reduce the com —
sumption of coal by keeping a certain” "
capacity of the power plants idle. —
(JEIA) i

* * *

Before the war Germany was @
leading exporter of phosphate fertili:
zer, but is now importing this item
How long will this be necessary? (

In 1947-48 and 1948-49 the Bizone ©
imported 240,000 tons of phosphate”
fertilizer to supplement its own PrO
duction of 329,000 tons. In 1949-50 _
it is anticipated that the Trizonal Area |
will produce 295,000 tons and 10 ~
imports will be necessary, since a”
117,000 ton carry-over will be avail
able. This carry-over represents phos-
phate contracted and paid for in th
previous year. Thus in 1949-50,
412,000 tons will be available for use, —
which is 117 percent of the 1938-39
use of this fertilizer in the same area
(OEA-OMGUS)

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF