--- Page 2 ---
MAGAZINE°OF US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

BAVARIAN PORCELAIN ce
NO. 163 JUNE 14, 1949
THIS ISSUE:

Basie Law Glass and Ceramics
Soapbox Derby School Reform in Hesse

--- Page 3 ---
ee eae
aE tes pa

US MILITARY GOVERNMENT IN GERMANY

--- Page 4 ---
COVER PICTURE

BAVARIAN PORCELAIN—The like-
ness of George Washington, first
president of the United States, appears
on a fine vase made by the Rosenthal
works at Selb, Bavaria, Marjorie A.
Yahraes, editorial writer of the In-
formation Bulletin, has written a com-
prehensive review and analysis of
the revival of the glass and ceramics

> indusiry yin western Germany since
the war. ’his article, which begins on
page 15, is the first of several which
Mrs. Yahraes is preparing on the post-
war development of western German
industries for forthcoming issues of
the Iniormation Bulletin,

The Information Bulletin is the bi-
weekly magazine of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (US)
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of Military Government
and affiliated organizations.

Editorial Offioes
Directors Building, Room 1050
OMGUS Headquarters, Berlin

Tel.: 42227, 42252, 42923

Editor H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes
Editorial Writer Christian J. Goll
Editorial Assistant Elizabeth Hein

Mailing address:
Information Bulletin
Control Office, OMGUS
Berlin, Germany
APO 742, US Army

Correspondence in the United States
concerning distribution should be
addressed to:

Occupied Areas Reports Distribution

Section,

Operations Branch,

Office of The Adjutant General,

Department of the Army,

Washington 25, D.C.

Printing and distribution of the
Magazine is handled by the Publi-
cations Branch, Office of the Adjutant
General, OMGUS,

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION
BULLETIN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Issue No, 163 June 14, 1949

Establishment of Position of US High Commissioner. . . 2
Executive Order by President Truman ¥

School Reform in Hesse. . . carpe Comair ee
Article by Dr. James R. Newman

Occupation Personnel Items... ......4.4.4. 6

Organization for European Economic Cooperation. . . . 7
Article by Major Gordon L. C. Scott

The Basic Law. . Pa Ohio pertain. cies ke)
Explanation of German Statute

Soapbox Derby. . . Parties, teas
Article by J. C. Lingle | & ‘William Martin

Foreign Visitors to Use Deutsche Marks . . .... . 13
Explanation of New Currency Order

Glass and Ceramics . . Se tMianmin iis cee wes. ls}
Article by Marjorie A. Yahraes *

Occupation Activities ino. see aah tna ae a

American Press:Comments \ ics (agi) s) Vice dae

German Editorial Opinion; io sn). yi oe eo

Text of Basic Law .. ibd Lea eS ae
Authorized ‘Anglo-American Version

Excerpts from Official Instructions, Announcements . . . 34

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents . . . 35; My

Questionsand “Answers 3.00 Fi eS ae on cee OG

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (US)
CONTROL OFFICE REPORTS & STATISTICS BRANCH
BERLIN, GERMANY APO 742, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
=A

CTU

Executive Order
Establishing the Position of United States

High Commissioner for Germany

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
Statutes, including the Foreign Service Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 999), and
as President of the United States and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces of the United States, it is ordered as follows:

!. There is hereby established the position of United States High
Commissioner for Germany, which position shall be that of Chief of
Mission, Class 1, in accordance with the provisions of the said Foreign
Service Act of 1946.

2. The United States High Commissioner for Germany, hereinafter
referred to as the High Commissioner, shall be the supreme United
States authority in Germany. The High Commissioner shall have the
authority, under the immediate supervision of the Secretary of State
(subject, however, to consultation with and ultimate direction by the
President), to exercise all of the governmental functions of the United
States in Germany (other than the command of troops), including rep-
resentation of the United States on the Allied High Commission for
Germany when established, and the exercise of appropriate functions
of a Chief of Mission within the meaning of the Foreign Service Act
of 1946.

3. With respect to military matters, the Commander of the United

States Armed Forces in Germany shall continue to receive instructions .

directly from the Joint Chiefs of Staff. On request of the High Com-
missioner, such Commander shall take necessary measures for the
maintenance of law and order and such other action as is required to
support the policy of the United States in Germany. If major differences
arise over policy affecting military matters, necessary reports and
recommendations shall be referred to the Department of State and to
the National Military establishment for resolution. In the event of an
emergency involving the security of the United States Forces in Europe,
such Commander may take whatever action he considers essential to
safeguard the security of his troops.

4. In the event that the High Commissioner shall assume his duties
in accordance with this Executive Order prior to the date that the
Military Government of the United States Zone of Germany is terminated,
he shall during such interval report to the Secretary of Defense, through
the Secretary of the Army, and shall be the United States Military
Governor with all the powers thereof, including those vested in the
United States Military Governor under all international agreements.

(s) Harry S. Truman
“The White House,

June 6, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2

=
=
=

nl 000000

JUNE 14, 1949 —

--- Page 6 ---
School Reform in Hesse

/ HEN AMERICANS first came
W into Germany, educators and
MG officers agreed that many reforms
were necessary. Probably the greatest
affront to freedom-loving Americans
was the caste system so apparent
upon first contact with German offi-
cials and citizens.

The reform, most Americans be-
lieved, must start with the youth, and
to the youngsters must be given the
essential lessons of basic, human equal-
ity. To see why the first American
occupiers looked so strongly to the
children, let us examine any element-
ary school classroom in Germany. as
it existed in 1945-46,

A bright, inquisitive little girl is
sitting at her desk. She is the leader
of her fourth-year class and the
brightest pupil for her age in the city.
She is 10 years old and she is facing
the greatest decision in her life. She.
however, does not make that deci-
sion; it is made for her by her father,
owner of a small linen shop and a
man of very moderate means. At the
age of 10 her entire future life, her
occupation, her ffiends, her social
life, her future husband, probably, all
hang on the decision her father
makes as to whether she is allowed
to take the examination for admit-
tance to an academic high school.

Her father, ignoring the youngster’s
talent and ability, feels that an aca-
demic and university education is un-
important for a girl, She is enrolled
at the Volksschule (elementary
school) and is to finish the eight-year
course, where most of her time is to
be spent studying German, arithmetic
and religion. Once graduated from
the Volksschule, she is to serve an
apprenticeship in her father’s store
and then take an examination as a
salesgirl. She might have had a
distinct talent for law, medicine or the
arts, but at the age of 10 years she
lost all chance of proving it.

Next to the little girl, in the fourth-
year classroom, is a 10-year-old boy.
He faces the same decision. His
father, a minor civil servant, decides
that his son also shall be a civil
Servant, so the young man is enrolled
at the Mittelschule (middle school)
where he spends a total of 10 years,
and where, after the fourth year, his
courses are entirely different from
those of the little girl at Volksschule.
At the end of. his schooling, he de-

JUNE 14, 1949

Article

by Dr. James R. Newman
Director

OMG Hesse

cides he wants to go to the univer-
sity to study engineering. In order to
enter the university, he must make
up two more years of school and also
many of the subjects taught in the
Gymnasium (higher school), which he
did not have from the fourth to the
10th year.

N THE SAME SCHOOLROOM there
is another little boy also 10 years

of age and also a very bright student.
He faces no decision. The decision

the universities. would have already
been filled.

In Hesse, almost 12,000 students
are taking university training; before
the war less than 5,000 students were
enrolled in the universities of the
state. Only a little over 1,700 may be
admitted each year. Over 2,000 are
graduated from high school each
spring and more and more former sol-
diers are seeking to continue their
studies interrupted by the war.

Actually, the young man would
have much preferred to have gone
to a trade school and studied mechan-
ics for which he had a natural flair,
but his academic training had not
prepared him for a change, He had

Dr. Newman, author of this article, at a conference with Lt. Gen. Clarence
R. Huebner, now acting military governor, at the latter's office in Frankfurt
in April 1948. Attending the conference are: (left to right) Dr. Harry Wann,
then director of the Education Division, OMGH; Dean William S. Russell of
Columbia University, Dr. Newman and General Huebner,

was made for him by his father the
day the child was born. The father,
a baron and civil engineer, had no
doubts but that his offspring would
go to the academic high school, the
Gymnasium, and then on to the uni-
versity and medical school,

But, if it were like in prewar days,
before the boy could enter the uni-
versity he would find himself in the
army. Upon his return from service
the young man would seek entrance
into the university but all places in

3

(US Army photo)

been destined for the university and
a career in medicine when he was
10 years old. In the Gymnasium, he
had devoted 28 percent of his time
for nine years of the 12 year course
to Latin and Greek, another seven
percent to modern languages and
23 percent to German and mathema-
tics. Less than 10 percent of his time

was devoted to social studies,
Returning to the fourth-year class
we find that only 10 percent of the
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
youngsters will be permitted to go
to the Gymnasium. First, their parents
must be willing that they compete
for the entrance examinations; and
second, they must be able to pay the
tuition fees, for only the Volksschule
is free.

The children who stand highest on
the competitive list and whose parents
can afford the tuition are selected for
matriculation. Yet, at the beginning of
the occupation when.these conditions
existed, German educators stoutly
asserted that all intelligent youngsters

were being admitted to the higher
schools,
ORE IMPORTANT, the die

was cast in so far as social
separation was concerned. The caste
system was starting and developing.
The little girl who continued in the
Volksschule no longer was invited to
the parties of the middle-school pupils,
and the future civil servant no longer
associated with the future medical
student. The barrier had been erected.

To quote from an article in the
“American School Board Journal,” by
Vaughan R. De Long, chief of education
division, OMG Hesse, students ‘‘were
trained in a school system that em-
phasized and deepened the (class)
differences instead of lessening them,
a school system which even in its
academic training, was entirely voca-
tional with little or no training in the
basic elements of social living or of

international understanding and co-
operation. From the time .... children
entered these different types of

schools in their fifth school year, their

ways became ever more divergent.
Each course of study was different
from the other.”

The real purpose of the German
school system was selection and elim-
ination rather than education. This
was borne out by the fact that the
average Gymnasium had one teacher
to every 30 pupils; the Volksschule
had one teacher to every 60 pupils.
This was justified by German edu-
cators on the ground that brighter
pupils had earned such advantages.
Yet recent studies under the Ameri-
can occupation show that the average
ability of elementary schoo] students
was but slightly below that of gym-
nasium pupils, the supposedly highly-
selected group.

Even the teachers in the various
schools took different training. Ele-
mentary school teachers attended a
special seminary for training elemen-
tary school teachers after completing
the elementary course of study. The
academic instructors, however, took
specific training in the university in
order to become high school teachers.
The entire educational system tended
to create an elite class of leaders from
whom all others took their leadership,
The five to 10 percent of the univer-
sity-trained people became the “su-
perior” class.

These were the school problems,
then, that faced the MG educators.
Before the solution could be found
schools had to be located, troops
moved out of them, the buildings re-
paired, teachers denazified and de-
militarized, Nazi textbooks eliminated

As there was no heat for schools in the early days of the occupation, a
teacher and 5th grade pupils wear their hats and coats during class in a

Frankfurt school in February 1946.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(US Army photo)

and new textbooks—often denazified
by the use of scissors and glue—
distributed, and paper, pencils and
teaching aids procured and given out.
These mechanics of education con-
sumed most of the time in 1945 and
1946 and little active thought could be
given to a school reform, as such, in
Hesse.

Dr. Newman is by profession an
educator, having risen from a country
school teacher to supervising principal
for the 16th District Schools of Long
Island. His home is in Floral Park,
N. Y. He received his master and doctor
degrees in education at Columbia Uni-
versity and has written many published
papers, particularly concerning adolescent
education. Being commissioned a colonel
during the war, he led the MG detach-
ment into Wiesbaden in July 1945 and
three months later directed the consoli-
dation of three small German states into

the present state of Hesse. He is the
only one of the original state MG
directors still in service.

OMGUS, in January 1947, had

established the 10 basic doctrines for
rebuilding the German school system.
It was a decision to teach democracy
by example. It would have taken far
less time to impose democratic edu-
cation by decree, but the Germans
would not have learned the actual
practice of democracy if their schools
had been reformed by MG order,
Thus instead of ordering, committees
of Hessian citizens were formed to
study and recommend a new educa-
tional system. Every facet of life and
every section of the state were rep-
resented on one or more of the
working parties studying educational
reform,

HIS GROUP received semi-official

status when the Ministry of Edu-
cation, in January 1948, appointed it
the State School Advisory Board. Cer-
tain reforms were recommended and
even tested in typical schools within
Hesse, In order to bring the general
public—especially the parents—in
contact with the problem, special dis-

cussion groups were formed and
meetings held, Student government
was instituted in most schools and

visiting education experts gave gen-
erously of time and advice, while
German educators were sent abroad
to see how education had advanced
in other countries during the war.
School reform was on the verge of
becoming a reality.

The first break came in April 1947,
when, by a Ministry of Education
decree, tuition costs in high schools
and universities were discontinued.
In February 1949, the Hessian legis-

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 8 ---
lature confirmed this ministerial de-
cree and even provided free tuition
in all schools of the state, free school
books and free school materials. The
first real breach in the age-old caste
system had been made, Further prog-
ress was inevitable. A few days later,
the same legislative body passed a
law providing for standard curriculum
in all schools. Opportunity for edu-
cational equality was an actuality.
With legislative enactment the real
fundamentals of school reform were
implemented and teeth were put into
Hessian school reform by the edu-
cators themselves.

ASICALLY, the implementing reg-
| ulations provide for three sep-
arate methods of insuring educational
equality: first of all, a uniform ob-
jective test is given to all pupils in the
fourth grade prior to selection of new
pupils to the middle school and the
high school. In February 1949, almost
61,000 young Hessians took this com-
petitive examination which tests inte!-
ligence, knowledge, achievement and
aptitude. Selections to higher study
are now determined by ability rather
than by social group, family tradition
or ability to pay.

The second basic innovation is the
uniform course of study for all fifth
grade classes regardless of school.
With the uniform course, the over-
specialization and practical impos-
sibility of changing courses of study
in the future is eliminated, Freedom
for the student to change his mind
is a reality.

The third action by the Hessian
educators is another objective test to
be given at the end of the fifth
school year in order again to bring
objective influences into play to show
that all of the best students are not
in the Gymnasium, and to provide
students desiring to change from
Volksschule to Gymnasium the oppor-
tunity for an easy switch of program.
It is expected that these achievement
tests will be given at the end of each
year for at least the first eight years
of study,

ETURNING to the second direc-

tive, equalization of curriculum,
I believe it well to point out that
prior to this change a_ different
history, a different geography, a dif-
ferent German and even a diffetent
course in mathematics were taught at
the different schools. The plan now
in operation in Hesse has all pupils
of like grade learning same courses
from the same books. In addition
to the other courses, the gymnasium

JUNE 14, 1949

student starts his Latin studies in the
fifth school year but a student chang-
ing from, say Volksschule to Gymna-
sium, can make up this course with-
out undue burden. Thus the course of
study will no longer be such a de-
ciding influence in the youngster's
life.

Free tuition plus common testing
and common curriculum has led to
an unexpected trend: greater interest
on the part of the parent. In the short
period since the reform was _ insti-
tuted OMG Hesse education officials
have noted an ever-increasing in-
terest on the part of fathers and
mothers, This in itself is far more
significant than legislative enactment.
For the first time  tradition-bound
parents are inquiring as to why their
youngster has not been admitted to
the Gymnasium and are interesting
themselves in his studies and his
extra-curricular activities,

Further, now that the grocer's son
and the banker's son are really
schoolmates and friends, the grocer
and the banker are becoming better
acquainted. The caste walls are be-
ginning to crumble at the roots. With
this awakening of parental interest, I
predict that parents will become in-
creasingly active in demanding
greater equalities for their children—
more facilities, better courses of study
and eventually a chance for every
youngster to go on to a free uni-
versity.

HE REFORM has also affected the

school laws themselves, The
Ministry of Education drafted a law for
a school organization of six years of
elementary school studies. In the draft
the ministry included a lengthy justi-
fication of the proposal. The draft was
then circulated among the citizens
and invited their comments and criti-
cism. This is believed to be the first
time in the history of Germany that
such type legislation has been given to
the people in an unofficial referendum
before being presented to the legis-
Jature.

Also submitted for public consider-
ation is the draft of a law which
breaks sharply with German educa-
tional tradition, This draft, which has
been agreed to by the educators of
the state, provides that all new
teacher training students must have
completed high school and that all
teacher trainees will have at least one
full year of common training. Here-
tofore, the elementary school teacher
did not need a high school education
and his teacher training was far d:ffer-

5

ent from that of his colleague in the
high school,

With school reform came a change
in thinking and textbooks have been
radically changed. A new English
primer, called “It's Quite Easy,” is a
lively, illustrated text. It is now used
in all fifth grade classes. New history
texts which teach history never
learned by members of the former
Wehrmacht will soon be making an
appearance in all schools. A new geo-
graphy is being taught, and best of
all, it is being taught to all pupils in
the same grade regardless of school.

INCE the start of the occupation,

education in Hesse has been ad-
vanced by several years. It was ac-
complished not as a miracle, but by
the determined effort on the part of a
number of sincere’ educators » who
loved and believed in democracy. Edu-
cational reform was not realized by
military order or occupational decree
but was the work of the Hessians
themselves guided by democratic
example. School reform in Hesse is
the result of practicing democracy,
and it can be used as the example
for further orientation to the cause
of freedom and peace. + END

Officials of the nearly formed Fed-
erated Rod and Gun Clubs in Europe,
an organization comprising all Amer-
ican fishing and hunting societies in
EUCOM, are: (left to right standing)
Mr. Homer Lyons of Augsburg, presi-
dent; Lt. Col. Ward R. Betz of Wies-
baden, vice president; Mr. James
K. Davis of Munich, secretary; (front)
T/Sgt. Patsy Fontana of Oberptaffen-
hofen Air Base, treasurer; Major
Henry C. Becker of Heidelberg,
member at large.

(US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Occupational Personnel Items

Mr. Carl
troller of OMSTEG, supervisory
agency for STEG, a German public
corporation, was appointed chief of
the American ERP Group in the Bi-
partite Control Office, His new assign-
ment entails coordinating a number
of phases of Bizonal Germany's econ-
omy into a single program and pro-
gramming all dollars alloted under
this program for Bizonal German
spending during the coming years.

(US Army photo)

R. Mahder, Deputy Con-

Brig. Gen.
inspector general of the Department
of the Army, signs through security
at the Rhine-Main Airport near Frank-
furt immediately after his arrival in
Germany last month for an inspection
of army installations in the European

Fay B. Prickett, deputy

Command. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

John French Leaves
JEIA Import Branch

Mr. John French, chief of the Imports
Branch, JEIA, will return to New York
City to resume the practice of law.
Mr. French joined Military Govern-
ment as a legal adviser in Berlin in
early 1946. He was made special
assistant to the economics adviser,
OMGUS, and for some time held the
post of acting deputy director of the
Economics Division. In February,
1948, he was appointed director of
operations of JEIA. He has been chief
of the Imports Branch of that agency
since September, 1948.

* * *

Mr. Harris P. Dawson, Jr., chief of
the Reports and Statistics Office,
JEIA, is returning to the United
States for work with the Bureau of
Labor Statistics in Washington. For-
merly regional director in the Atlanta,
Ga., office of the US Bureau of Labor
Statistics, Mr. Dawson had been with
the Department of Labor for seven
years. He is being succeeded by his
deputy, Mr. Anthony J. Cefaratti.

ae * *

Mr. Richard S. Schubert, member of
the Legal Division, OMGUS, since
September 1945, has accepted a
position in Vienna with the Legal
Division, US Element, Allied Com-
mission for Austria.

Mr. Schubert was born in Vienna
and practiced law there for ten years
after he received his doctor of laws
degree from the University of Vienna.
M-. Schubert -was a member of the
Administrttion of Justice and Legal
Advice branches, OMGUS.

EUCOM Transier

Col. George E. Wrockloff, Jr., deputy
chief of the EUCOM Transportation
Division since April 1948, has been
assigned as transportation officer of
the 4th Army at Fort Sam Houston,
Texas. Colonel Wrockloff came to
Germany in December 1945 after
attending the Army and Navy Staff
College and serving at the New York
Port of Embarkation as executive
officer of the Overseas Supply
Division from late 1943 until the fall
of 1945.

Mr. Leland E. Spencer, chief of the
Commerce & Industry Group, BICO,
is leaving Germany to reassume his

position with the Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Company, with whom he has
been associated for 23 years. Mr.
Spencer (right) greets his successor,
Mr. Harold A. Taylor, who has been
OMG Bavaria economics adviser.

(US Army photo)

Telegraph Convention
Three Allied communications offi-
cials represented Bizonal Germany
at the International Telegraph Con-
vention held in Paris during May. Mr.

Eugene H. Merrill, chief of the
OMGUS Communications — Branch,
Berlin, represented US _ Military

Government, while Mr. L. G. Semple,
chief of the Bipartite Communications
Group and Mr. R. C. Miller, BICO
telegraph engineer, represented British
Military Government.

Attends Authority Meeting

Lt. Gen. Sir Gordon Macready, Brit-
ish chairman of the Bipartite Control
Office, represented the US and UK
military governors at the first meet-
ing of the International Ruhr Authority
in London late in May. The meeting
was to discuss administrative prob-
lems, such as the appointing of a
secretary general for the Ruhr Author-
ity and the selection of staff:

e
JUNE 14, 1949

——

--- Page 10 ---
Organization for

European

Economie
Cooperation

N THE CONFUSED MONTHS fol-

lowing the last Great War, the
economic life of western Europe was
sick and chaotic. The gears of pro-
duction were worn and broken; the
flow of international trade was
reduced to a trickle. What could be
done for this ailing patient? Where
was the path to health, strength and
freedom?

Then in the Spring of 1947 came
Secretary of State Marshall's great
answer and challenge. The hand of
the United States would be extended
in aid—but this aid would be fruitless
unless the free nations of Europe, in
mutual cooperation, found a way to
help themselves.

Europe's reply was soon forthcom-
ing. In September of 1947, the chal-
lenge was accepted; 16 western
European nations, with one voice,
declared their intention to work
together in mutual selfhelp and pro-
ductive effort. In order to do so, they
blueprinted an international organi-
zation which would chart western
Europe's course to recovery and sub-
mit to the United States requests for
the aid needed beyond the limit to
which they could help themselves.
The job could be done, they hoped,
by 1952,

HUS JUST over a year ago, in

April of 1948, was born in Paris
the Organization for European Econo-
mic Cooperation (OEEC)—a group of
representatives from the 16 Western
European Nations plus the Bizonal
Area and the French Zone of Ger-
many. They formed a Council, of one
member from each participating area,
which would be the supreme de-
liberative body. An executive com-
mittee of seven national represen-
tatives was created to handle day-to-
day business, while policy and tech-
nical committees were established to
perform the staff functions for the
Organization.

JUNE 14, 1949

* The manner in which OEEC meets
its commitment is characteristic of
the sincere thoroughness that has

marked its efforts, The Council,
in its “long term program”, first
set economic milestones and ob-

jectives along the four-year path to
viability. The various participating
nations then evolved their own pro-
grams, starting with the first year,
and showing what they could produce
for themselves, what surpluses they
would have available to help their

partner nations, and what they
would require in aid from other
European nations or the United
States.

A Nests separate programs were then
discussed in OEEC and the maxi-
mum degree of harmonization achiev-
ed. Following this, the requirements of
the participating nations from the
United States were given to the
Economic Cooperation Administration
(ECA), which then met these require-
ments to the fullest possible amount.

Bizonal Germany has been represent-
ed in this effort from the day in April
of 1948 on which General Robertson,
acting also for General Clay, signed
on behalf of the Bizone the Con-
vention for European Economic Co-
operation. In the deliberations of the
OEEC Council, the economic advisers
to the US and UK Military Governors
—Mr. Laurence Wilkinson on behalf
of General Clay, and Sir Cecil Weir
for General Robertson—have present-
ed the Bizone’s case, and will continue
in this task until the German
authorities can assume this re-
sponsibility.

A Bizonal delegation, composed of
US, British and German personnel,
was sent to Paris. The first chief
Delegate, Mr. Robert Trier of Chicago,
has now been succeeded by Mr.
Malcolm R. White of Colebrook,
Conn. The staff of the Delegation is
small, numbering about two dozen

7

by Major Gordon L. C. Scott
US Secretary
Bipartite Secretariat

persons in all, but is supplemented
from time to time by technical ex-
perts from Frankfurt and Berlin in the
fields covered by the scheduled OEEC
committees meeting.

NTIL RECENTLY, the burden of

negotiations within the OEEC on
the Bizonal Delegation’s part has been
borne by the US and British, with the
German representatives attending as
observers. However, with the recent
Washington declaration of the foreign
ministers providing for full German
participation in the OEEC coincident
with the formation of a Western Ger-
man government, emphasis is being
placed on increased direct German
participation. They are to prepare
and defend their own programs, as-
suming increasing responsibility for
their economic recovery and_ the
economic rehabilitation of a dem-
ocratic western Europe. In the words
of the United States and United
Kingdom Military Governors:

"As the representatives, for the
time being, of the Combined Zones
at the OEEC, it has been the re-
sponsibility of the Military Governors
to supervise the preparation of the
German programs submitted to the
OEEC, to press for the adoption of

- policies which would permit the most

effective use of German resources for
German and European recovery, and
to sign the final agreements reached,

on behalf of the Combined Zones,
“Now, following upon the historical
agreements on German policy just
reached between the Governments of
the US, UK, and France, the people
of Western Germany are preparing to
set up a government of their own,
and this government will then directly
assume the responsibilities heretofore
exercised by the Military Governors
in carrying out Western German
undertakings toward the ECA and the
OEEC. That they will do so with
energy and enthusiasm seem certain.”
+ END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Because of the failure of his back-
yard crop last year, Mr.Murray D. Van
Wagoner, OMG director of Bavaria
(right), received expert advice from
the Bavarian agriculture minister,
Dr. Alois Schloegl, in planting his
potato patch this spring,

(photo by PIO OMGB)
Director Van Wagoner had told an
agricultural extension service dinner

several weeks ago about his in-
adequacies as a farmer because of the
failure of his potato crop last year,
one of the most successful potato
years in Bavaria’s history. Dr. Schloegl

offered his professional advice,
In mid-May, the two met in the
Van Wagoner backyard and, as the
German agriculture minister gave
instructions, the OMG director cut up
12 potatoes, dug up the ground and
planted the hills. The potatoes, Irish
cobblers, had been sent Mr, Van
Wagoner by a Detroit (Mich.) friend,
who had obtained them from Ireland.

News Types of Schools

The Curriculum Workshop in Ba-
varia is working on plans for the-
curricula to be used in five new ©
types of high schools, to be known i
as the “Realschule.’ These
will emphasize general education,
commercial subjects as preparation
for business careers, the trades, home
economics and agriculture,

Freight-car Deliveries

The Reichsbahn received 4,500 new
freight cars from four European
countries up to May 12, Railways
Branch of Bipartite Transport Group
announced. These foreign deliveries
represent around 30 percent of the
16,830 total being constructed in
Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Italy,
Austria and Hungary under con-
tracts sponsored by JEIA last August
and September.

Airlift Fliers’ Gifts for Berlin Children

Because of the airman who first
had the idea of aiding Berlin children,
35,000 Berlin boys and girls are
happier today for having thousands of

items of clothing, soap, candy and
toys.
Last October, a small group of

officers and men of the 1420th Air
Transport Group, US Air Force (now
known as the 313th Troup Carrier
Group), decided they would like to do
what they could to help the children
of Berlin, As part of the airlift per-
sonnel stationed at Fassberg, an airlift
terminal in the british zone, they were
well aware of the bleak prospects the
winter 1948-49 held for most German
families living under the blockade.
The men decided that each of them
would write an appeal to his home-
town newspaper asking for gifts for
blockaded Berlin children. Somehow
they conveyed to the people of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

America a picture of children growing
up in a city where candy is almost
non-existent; where clothes are ill-
fitting and threadbare; where many
games and toys are unheard of, and
where mothers can't keep grimy
knees and hands clean for lack of
soap.

Other US newspapers picked up the
story, and Americans began wrapping
and sending gifts to thousands of
children they had never seen. Shortly
before Christmas and for weeks
afterward, gifts began pouring into
Fassberg—not only for the children
but sometimes for parents as well.
They came from every part of the
United States—women’'s clubs _ in
Maine, schools in California, a
brewery in Wisconsin, and children
in Tennessee.

In all, 300 large canvas mailbags
and 75 bulging cartons of gifts arrived:

8

warm wool sweaters, coats and
urousers; toys and games; candies,
chocolate and soap. There were so
many presents that C-47's were press-
ed into service to deliver the moun-
tain of packages to Tempelhof airport.

In Berlin, GYA representatives were
asked to help in the problem of
distribution, The American Women's
Club of Berlin sorted and rewrapped
gifts. They worked 20 women at a
time from morning until late afternoon
to keep up with deliveries.

The Public Welfare Branch, OMGBS,
in consultation with German welfare
officials, prepared lists of those chil-
dren whose needs were greatest, in-
cluding children in institutions and
others deprived of home care. They
also assisted in the actual delivery to
the thousands of surprised and grate-
ful Berlin families.

JUNE 14, 1949

schools —

--- Page 12 ---
The Basie Law

HE BASIC LAW which was draft-

ed by the Parliamentary Council
at Bonn and ratified by the state
legislatures—the elected representa-
tives of the people of western Ger-
many—was evolved through demo-
cratic exchange of views and reason-
able compromise both by the German
political parties and by the Western
Allies, It introduces a new stage in
Germany's postwar political develop-
ment.

As General Lucius D. Clay said
shortly before his departure for the
United States, “Germany now has the
framework for a democratic govern-
ment with sufficient power in the
federal government to serve as an
adequate national regime, but with
sufficient power left in the hands of
the individual states to prevent a
dangerous over-centralization of
authority.”

Equally important is ithe fact that
the Basic Law gives not only the in-
dividual states but the individual
citizen abundant guarantees of fun-
damental rights and privileges.

Its first 19 articles offer unequivocal
legal support to all those human
rights which are indispensable to a
free and progressive society. Pro-
tection against arbitrary imprison-
ment; equality before the law; equal
rights for men and women; freedom
of religious worship; freedom of
speech and of lawful assembly; free-
dom of art and science, of research
and teaching—these are some of the
liberties guaranteed to every citizen
of the Federal Republic,

'OGETHER with the federal char-

acter of the national govern-
ment soon to be established, they are
a measure of the progress western
Germany has achieved in destroying
the bases of dictatorial rule and
guarding against its return in any
form. Whatever changes may ulti-
mately be made in the structure of

This explanation of the Basic Law is
from the translated text of the OMGUS
broadcast on May 19 over the German
radios to the residents of the US Zone.
The highlights of the law were prepared
and issued by the Public Information
Office, OMGUS. Copies of the authorized
Anglo-American translation of the law,
reproduced from the original on pages
29 to 33, were’ furnished by the Press
Branch, CCG (BE).

JUNE 14, 1949

the German government, those fun-
damental rights must remain the foun-
dation of any democratic regime.

In the last analysis, they can be
maintained ‘only by the _ people
themselves, That this is widely un-
derstood in eastern as well. as
western Germany may be seen in the
attitude of eastern Germans toward
the recent elections in their zone. The
people made it clear that they will
not accept rhetoric and slogans as
adequate substitutes for true demo-
cracy.

The emphasis placed upon. demo-
cratic liberties. at Bonn was un-
doubtedly one of the factors that
enabled the Western Allies to pro-
claim the Occupation Statute, which
will go into effect upon the establish-
ment of the Federal Republic. It was
to promote and protect these rights,
also, that the democratic powers issu-
ed recently the so-called ‘little Oc-
cupation Statute” for the western sec-
tors of Berlin. This declaration adapts
the principles of the western German
statute to the special conditions of
Berlin,

It extends wide authority to the
legally elected municipal government.
It abolishes the procedure by which

the city authorities had to obtain.

prior approval for their measures from
the Military Governments, and it
eliminates the rule requiring that
decisions of the Military Governments
must be unanimous. And like the
Occupation Statute for western Ger-
many, it guarantees the basic rights
of the people whom it affects,

ERLIN, although not now in a

position to participate fully in the
new German government, nevertheless
already enjoys the same freedom as
the federal Basic Law and the Oc-
cupation Statute provide for western
Germany.

Thus, only four years after the total
collapse of German political life, two-
thirds of the German people are free
to exercise wide powers of self-
government. It is natural that they,
in common with the Western Allies,
should wish to see this right extended
to the rest of Germany. A unified
and democratic Germany has been the
consistent aim of the western oc-
cupation powers, and the adoption of
the Basic Law does not mean that the
Western Allies have ceased to strive

9

New Flag of Federal
Republic of Germany

for political and economic arrangements
covering all Germany,

On the contrary, the three Western
Powers have made a new effort in this
direction, But they must protect the
great political and economic gains
achieved in Western Germany ‘and the
unification of _ Germany would,
therefore, have to be based on. free
institutions. It is equally clear that
in-adhering to this policy the dem-
ocratic powers are supporting the
desire and the best interests of the
German people.

Germans know that the next urgent
task in political reconstruction is to
push forward ‘their reabsorption into
the European community, And this
goal can be reached only by a Ger-
many which has demonstrated that
whatever its problems may be, it is
determined to solve them without
sacrificing democratic liberties, For
this: Germany, developing in the
spirit of the federal Basic Law and
intent upon peaceful cooperation with
its neighbors for the greater welfare
of all, there is a respected place among
the free nations of the world,

* * *

A summary of highlights with ref-
erences to articles and paragraphs
as an aid in studying the 146-article
document follows. Reference is made
to the articles and paragraphs on
which each highlight is based. For
example: (23-2) after a statement
below means that it is based on Ar-
ticle 23, paragraph 2 of the draft of
the Basic Law. The full text of the
official Anglo-American version is
reproduced on pages 29 to 33.

States affected—Baden, Bavaria,
Bremen, Hamburg, Hesse, Lower
Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia,

Rhineland-Palatinate, Schleswig-Hol-
stein, Wuerttemberg-Baden, Wuert-
temberg-Hohenzollern (preamble) (see
map inside back cover),

(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Name of Government—'’Federal Re-
public of Germany” (preamble).

Form of Government—"'A democratic
and social federal state" (20-1).

Berlin and Eastern ;Germany—'It
(Parliamentary ‘Council) acted also on
behalf of those Germans to whom
participation was denied” (preamble).

Basic law—'shall be put into force
for other parts of Germany on their
accession” (23).

Eventual goal—'‘The entire German
people is called upon to establish by
free self-determination, the unity and
freedom of Germany” (preamble).

Government by the people—‘All
state authority emanates from the
people, to be exercised by elections
and plebiscities (20-1, 2).

Flag—Black, red and gold (22)
(same colors were used in Weimar
Republic).

Basic rights—"Inviolable and in-
alienable human rights“ are upheld
through guarantees of freedom of

personality, conscience, religion,
speech, writing, instruction, press,
radio, motion pictures, art and

science, research, movement through-
out the federal territory, place of
work, occupation (1 thru 9).

Private property—shall be “‘guaran-
teed” (14-1), ‘Property shall involve
obligations. Its use shall simultan-
eously serve the general welfare”
(14-2), Expropriation admissible only
for. general welfare (14-3).

Socialization—Land, resources and
means of production “may, for the
purpose of socialization, be trans-
ferred to public ownership or other
forms of publicly controlled economy”
by law and with compensation (15).

Women—'Men and women shall
have equal rights” (3-2), Laws conflict-
ing with this provision may remain
in force no later than March 31, 1953
(118).

Education—Entire system under
supervision of the state. Those
entitled to bring up the child have
right to decide on religious in-
struction, No teacher obliged against
will to give religious instruction.
Private schools, including confessional
schools, permitted under specified
sanction (7-1, 2, 4).

Enemies of democratic order—Those
who oppose basic rights shall forfeit
them (18), Ten years to life imprison-
ment for using or threatening force to
change state or federal constitutional
order (143).

International cooperation—Federa-
tion may transfer sovereign powers
to international institutions (24-1).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Collective security—Federation may
join “a system of mutual collective
security" limiting sovereign powers
so as to promote peaceful order in
Europe and the world (24-2),

International —_arbitration—Federa-
tion will join a “general, com-
prehensive, obligatory system of inter-
national arbitration” (24-3),

International law—Forms part of
federal law and takes precedence over
other federal law for all inhabitants
(25).

Making aggressive war—Disturbing
peaceful relations among nations,
and “especially preparing for aggres-

sive war" is unconstitutional and
punishable (26).
Local government—In the states

(Laender), counties (Kreise) and towns
(Gemeinden), “the people must have
a representative assembly resulting
from universal, direct, free, equal and
secret elections.” In towns, town-
meeting form of government permis-
sible as alternative (28).

Territorial reorganization—Shall be
achieved by federal law, creating
states which “by their size and
potentiality are able to fulfill eif-
ficiently the functions incumbent on
them" (29-1), Popular wishes protect-
ed (29-2, 3, 4). Possibility is rec-
ognized that Baden, Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Wuerttemberg-Hohen-
zollern may agree on reorganization
among themselves (119).

States rights—Except as Basic Law
prescribes or permits, the exercise
of governmental powers shall be the
concern of the states (30). The states
shall have the right to legislate
insofar as Basic Law does not grant
legislative powers to the federation
(70-1).

Federal law supreme—"Federal law
shall supersede state law” (31).

Civil service—Every German shall
have equal access to any public office
in accordance with his suitability,
ability and professional achievements”
(33-2),

Assembly (Bundestag)—Deputies
elected by the people in universal,
direct elections to represent “the
whole people’ are not “bound to
orders and instructions” and are “‘sub-
ject only to their conscience” (38-1).
Anyone who has reached the age of
25 years eligible for election (38-2).

Voting—Any person who has reach-
ed the age of 21 may vote (38-2).

Federal Council (Bundesrat)—Shall
consist of members of the govern-
ments of the states. Each state has
at least three votes; states with more
than 2,000,000 inhabitants shall have

10

four; with more than 6,000,000 in-
habitants, five votes. Votes of each
state may be given only as a block
(51-1, 2, 3). Federal council must
convene on demand of two or more
states (52-2),

President—Elected without discus-
sion by a federal convention consist-
ing of the members of the assembly
and an equal number of members
elected by the popular representative
bodies (legislatures or Landtage) of
the states by proportional representa-
tion (54-1, 3). President represents the
federation in matters concerning
international law (59-1). May be
impeached by either house before the
federal constitutional court (61-1).

Chancellor—Elected without dis-
cussion by assembly on the proposal
of the president (63-1). If no majority
vote obtained, president must either
appoint him or dissolve the assembly
(63-4). Chanceller determines and
assumes responsibility for general
policy (65). Assembly may express
lack of confidence in chancellor but
must at same time agree on successor
(67-1), If chancellor's request for vote
of confidence fails, assembly may be
dissolved, unless a majority of its
members meanwhile elect another
chancellor (68-1). His term ends “in
any case with the assembly of a new
assembly” (69-2).

Courts—Federal ‘Constitutional Court
shall interpret Basic Law and settle
State federation differences (93-1, 3).
Shall be elected half by Assembly,
half by ‘Council, Independent judiciary
provided, in sense that judges may
not belong to either house or to
federal or state governments, Supreme
federal court shall maintain uniformity
of administration of justice by higher
federal courts. Appropriate state
courts and federal constitutional court
may rule on constitutionality of state
and federal laws, respectively.

Capital punishment—‘The death
sentence shall be abolished” (102).

Legislation—Federation shall have
exclusive legislation on some matters
(73) and concurrent legislation with
states on others (72.74). Laws are
passed by assembly, then submitted
to Council, Council may demand
consideration of; bill jointly by com-
mittee of both houses, and can thus
require Assembly to reconsider a bill
(77-1, 2, 3, 4). ,

Amendments—To amend Basic Law,
two-thirds approval of Assembly and
Council required (79-1, 2).

Legislative emergencies—To pro-
claim one, president needs approval

(Continued on page. 28)

JUNE 14;° 1949

--- Page 14 ---
HE SOAPBOX DERBY, one of the

greatest amateur racing events
in the world, is booming into a Ger-
man sport. This spring and summer,
Sunday crowds throughout the US
Zone are flocking to improvised race
tracks to observe the first running of
zone-wide German Soapbox Derby
races.

This year's races, a cooperative
venture of German youth organi-
zations, US Armed Forces’ GYA and
Military Government, will culminate
in a final competition in Munich
July 24. The objectives of this pro-
gram are to promote craftsmanship and
sportsmanship through competition in
building and racing soapbox cars, and
to arouse community spirit and inter-
est in a worthwhile activity for youth.

Hundreds of prizes will go to the
winners of the preliminary races.
Crash helmets, racing goggles, sweat-
ers and a week's vacation in the
Bavarian Alps will be awarded the
36 contestants who reach the zone
finals. The grand prize will be a two-
week trip to the United States.

The US Zone champion, accom-
panied by bis father, mother or es-
cort, will visit Washington and New
York and will participate as observer
at the running of the All-American
Soapbox Derby in Akron, Ohio
Aug. 14,

HE TRACK on which the US Zone
finals will be run will be con-
structed at the foot of the statue of the
Bavarian Queen in the park in the
heart of Munich and will duplicate the
track used at the US finals in Akron.

The Soapbox Derbies were started
in Germany on a shoestring in 1947.

Article
by Joseph C. Lingle
GYA Section, EUCOM Hg.
and William Martin

Field Relations Division
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden

In the spring of that year, Major
Marcus L. Hoover, at that time the
MG officer of Ulm, sponsored and
conducted what is believed to have
been the first derby in Germany.
During the following summer and fall
and in 1948 races were held in other
cities of the US Zone, including Mu-
nich, Stuttgart, Nuremberg, Augsburg
and Garmisch under the guidance of
both MG efficers and GYA.

The racers entered in these eaily
derbies presented a comic spectacle,
ranging from tank-like bodies slung
on bicycle wheels to wooden boxes
mounted on roller skates. Race tracks
were merely blocked-off streets with
no starting ramps, no grandstands,
and little fanfare. The racers were
usually brought to a stop at the end
of the course by bales of hay.

Notwithstanding the many im-
provisations and the lack of organi-
zation, the races were enthusiastically
received wherever they were held.
The German youth, as well as the
adult population, responded with an
enthusiasm that was little short of
astounding. In Heilbronn, a town of
80,000, approximately 20,000 persons
turned out as spectators for the 1948
race.

Encouraged by these early suc-
cesses, both Military Government and
GYA, in an attempt to standardize

(left) Start of qualifying heat. (right) Preliminary qualifiers

the races and put competition on a
more wide-spread basis, indepen-
dently solicited General Motors Cor-
poration in the United States to ob-
tain rules and regulations and entry
bianks. GYA and Military Govern-
ment decided to join forces at this
point, and a conference was arranged
to coordinate their efforts.

T THIS CONFERENCE, held last

January, it was agreed that the
Soaphox Derby was an activity which
deserved the attention and patronage
of both Military Government and GYA,
that it would be desirable to organize
these events on as broad a basis as
possible and that GYA an Military
Gouvernment would assist the Ger-
mans in the running of these races.
At this first meeting, plans were made
to conduct the derbies cn a zone-wide
basis and to have a final competition
in July.

The official 1949 rule books, with
modifications to make them conform
to present-day conditions in Germany,
and the entry blanks received from
General Motors Corporation, were

(Continued on next page)

line up for inspection.

--- Page 15 ---
edited, translated and reproduced by
the Adam Opel Corporation, a Ger-
man subsidiary of General Motors
Corporation. The two companies also
offered as the grand prize a trip to
the United States.

he most difficult aspect in laying

the groundwork for this year’s
program was in restraining the various
GYA and Military Government offi-
cers and the German children, who
had had a taste of the derbies, from
jumping the gun and _ conducting
races outside the planned compe-
tition, In those cities where races al-
ready had been tried, GYA and Mili-
tary Government were besieged by
budding Barney Oldfields clamoring
for more races.

To properly channel this exhuber-
ance, a steering committee was
formed to organize the races on a
zone-wide basis. This committee,
which will also plan and conduct the
zone finals, is composed of represen-
tatives of EUCOM GYA, Stuttgart
GYA, OMG Bavaria, OMG Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, OMG Hesse, USAFE, 1st
Infantry Division, US Constabulary
and Munich GYA,

Competition has been organized at
four leveis—local, sub-post, post, and
inter-post. Berlin and Bremen also are
conducting preliminary races and will
send entrants to the finals. The first
three winners from each of the 12
military post finals will be eligible to
compete in the zone finals.

At the local level the race is super-
vised by the local MG Officer, who
works with a committee of German
youth leaders and German officials.
This committee distributes rule books
and entry blanks, registers entrants,
solicits prizes, publicizes the race, and
attends to the many details involved
in conducting a good derby.

Races at the sub-post and post level
are to be run by GYA Officers, who
also are to work with a committee of
Germans with responsibilities similar
to those of the local committees.

he entry blanks and rule books
have been distributed to all MG
officers in the US Zone and to GYA
officers in Berlin and Bremen. These
have been made available to the Ger-
man youth through schools, youth
committees, police departments and
government offices. It is estimated
that 30,009 boys from 10 to 15 years
of age from all parts of the US Zone
and Berlin will enter this year's
races,
Aside from the healthy activity
which this program provides for such

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Last minute instructions from father-coach.

a large number of young people, it
means more than amateur sport when
translated into terms of the future. A
properly and impartially supervised
activity of this nature, bursting as it
is with young enthusiasm and clean
sportsmanship, can direct the ener-

Photos by Kurt Huhle, Munich

gies of thousands of youngsters away
from the traditional politically-domi-
nated type of youth activity into an
unfettered national pastime for youth,
The soap box derby, in this light, is
just another brick in the building of
democracy in Germany. + END

Institute Planned for Study of America

An “American Institute’, represent-
ing an effort to set up a permanent
center for German and _ foreign
students to study American affairs,
will open at the University of Munich
in the fall, according to an announce-
ment by OMG Bavaria.

The institute will provide  in-
struction and facilities for research
in the fields of American literature,
history, government and economics
for students from German and other
European universites. Equipped with
a modern reference library, it will
also serve as an information center
on America’s academic, legal and
industrial life.

The new institute was organized
through the combined efforts of Dr.
H. Frederick Peters, visiting consul-
tant from Reed College of Portland,
Ore., to the OMGB Education Branch;
the Bavarian Ministry of Education
and Culture and the president and
Senate of Munich University.

“A more

of American
need in present

thorough understanding
affairs is an urgent
day Europe,"’ Dr.

12

Peters said, “Since European and
American affairs are becoming in-
creasingly interdependent, the  in-
stitute is bound to play an im-

portant role in training those men and
women who will direct the fortunes
of the Atlantic community.”

The institute will be headed by an
American director and staffed with
American experts, appointed for
periods of from one to three years.
Provision is made to include German
and other European professors in the
institute's program, if and when
available. Some DM 200,000 ($60,000)
has been set aside in the university
budget for reconstructing a building
for the former Max Josef Foundation
and rooms in the House of German
Law on University Square to house
the new institute.

The Institute will be financed by
an annual appropriation from the
Bavarian government, by tuition fees
and by donations from American and
German sponsors, representing edu-
cational institutions in those coun-
tries.

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 16 ---
Foreign Visitors

HE THREE western zones of Ger-

many will be thown open to
foreign businessmen, tourists and
other visitors June 21, Thereafter,
travelers will live on the German
economy and pay all their expenses
in Deutsche marks only,

Up to the present, only the US Zone
has been open generally to foreign
visitors who have been required to
stay at JEIA-licensed German hotels
and eat in JEIA-licensed German
restaurants, paying their expenses in
devisen coupons purchased with dollar
instruments, The two other zones were
open only to restricted categories of
visitors who had access to the facilities
of the occupation forces in the re-
spective zones,

In the US Zone, the new procedure
will not apply to military and civilian
occupation personnel and _ certain
specified agencies and _ individuals
whose activities are deemed for the
benefit of or in support of the occupa-
tion, as provided in EUCOM Circular
No. 2, of May 13,

Upon entering Germany, after
June 20, foreigners will receive a cur-
rency control book, printed in English,
French and German, explaining the
currency regulations, The visitor will
be required to declare all currencies,
currency instruments and travelers
checks in his possession and notations
will be made in the currency control
book accordingly.

EARLY 500 German foreign trade

banks are available where
travelers will be able to exchange
authorized instruments for D-marks.
For the time being, instruments
payable in Swiss francs, US dollars,
Netherlands guilder, Belgian francs
and sterling letters of credit endorsed
cashable in Germany, will be ac-
ceptable in exchange for D-marks.
As necessary banking arrangements
are made with other countries, in-
struments in their respective cur-
rencies will become acceptable.

All monetary exchanges will be
recorded by the bank in the cur-
tency control book at the time of
etchange and, upon the visitor's exit
from Germany, customs authorities
will check his currency control book
to ensure that currency control reg-
ulations have been observed.

JUNE 14, 1949

— — To Use Deutsche Marks

Foreign visitors will also receive,
upon entering the country a special
three-day food ration card which will
be valid in any German hotel,
restaurant or food shop. Additional
seven-day ration cards will be
available from any German food
office, on presentation of the ap-
plicant’s passport and currency control
book, The ration for foreigners will
provide a 3,035 calorie daily diet,

Travelers already in the zone on
June 21 may obtain currency control
books from the German customs office
and food ration cards from any food
office.

book, The visitor's POL ration will be
a maximum of 200 liters (about 50
gallons) per week per automobile,
and POL coupons will not be sold for
German-owned vehicles. Ten liters
(two and half gallons) of gasoline will
cost $1.20,

Internal travel in Germany will be
by normal rail and road services.
Travel on military trains for foreigners
will not be authorized and payment
in D-marks for travel on international
trains has not yet been approved.
International telegram and telephone
services for payment in D-marks will
be available at German post offices

spouse

Nr. 00000

DEVISEN-KONTROLLBUCH
CURRENCY CONTROL BOOK
CARNET DE CONTROLE DES DEVISES

fiir die
pour les

amerikanische, britische und franzésische Besatzungszone Deutschlands
US - UK - French Zones of Germany
zones américaine, anglaise et francaise d'occupation en Allemagne

(einschlieBlich amerikanischer, britischer und franzésischer Sektor von Berlin)
(including US/UK/Fr. Sectors of Berlin)
(y compris les secteurs américain, anglais et francais de Berlin)

EIA LICENSES for hotels and

restaurants will be cancelled as
of June 20 and all payments after
that time will be in D-marks. Unused
devisen coupons will be redeemed at
German banks for D-marks, but not
foreign currencies, Occupation person-
nel may exchange unused devisen
coupons at DER (German _ travel
agency) offices.

Gasoline and oil (POL) coupons now
sold through travel agencies will be
sold by foreign trade banks against
acceptable currency instruments upon
presentation of passport and vehicle
registration, and POL transactions will
be recorded in the currency control

13

upon presentation of passport and
currency control book.

Foreigners contemplating visits to
Germany should book reservations
through travel bureaus or directly
with hotels, as Military Government
or army agencies will not be able to
assist in obtaining accomodations or
transportation. Though the new reg-
ulations take effect as of June 21,
US Army logistic support to those
concerned, such as the right to handle
Military Payment Certificates, the use
of army billets, messes, theaters, snack
bar, PX’s etc., will be withdrawn on
July 1, as announced by EUCOM
Headquarters, = (Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
ILITARY entry permits will be

issued by military permits
officers in foreign countries for a
maximum of 80 days subject to ex-
tensions through the entry and exits
branch offices in German state capi-
tals, Permits normally will be vatid
for one journey except for business
visitors who may apply for repeated
journeys.

Pointing out that the number of mili-
tary permits issued for Germany in
the first four months of 1949 was
double the number issued in the same
period last year, JEIA officials estimat-
ed that at the present rate, about 500,000
foreigners will visit western Germany
this year. Between 1929 and 1938, the
number of foreign visitors to the
area now comprising the three western
zones averaged 1,500,000 yearly.

New Taxi System

etek ak, between the Amer-

ican Express Company and 27 Ger-
man taxicab corporations establishing
a new taxicab system for the use of
occupation and other foreign person-
nel in the US Zone and US Sector of
Berlin were approved by the Joint Ex-
port-Import Agency and the German
Department for Economics,

Under the new system, which started
June 1, rates are higher on a single
passenger basis than those previously

in effect, There are economies for pas-
sengers in groups, however, as rates
are scaled according to the number
of passengers and sharing of fares is
permitted.

The contracts are between the Amer-
ican Express Company and the taxi-
cab corporations only, The American
Express Company is responsible for
printing and sale of tickets and audit-
ing of accounts, while the taxis are
operated by the German corporations
which are reimbursed in Deutsche
marks at the rate of 30 cents equals
one mark.

Tickets are sold for Military Pay-
ment Certificates or U.S, dollar in-
struments, in books of 950 units for
$3.00. The new rates are as follows:

50 units ($ .15) for initial flag pull and first
kilometer (five-eights of one mile) or part
thereof,

30 units ($ .09) for each additional kilo-
meter for one passenger.

50 units ($ .15) for each additional kilo-
meter for two passengers.

69 units ($ .18) for each additional kilo-
meter for three passengers and more.

5 units ($ .01'/:) for each minute of waiting
time.

Trips over 25 km—Flat rate of 50 units
($ .15) for each km for the round trip.

Old taxi coupons will continue to be
valid,

Under the old system of JEIA-licens-
ed taxicabs, users paid six cents, or
20 pfennigs per kilometer. However,
legal stop price for taxicabs is
60 pfennigs per kilometer and the

Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York State inspects an honor guard at Rhine-
Main Airport near Frankfurt with Brig. Gen. Philip Gallagher, commanding

general of Frankfurt Military Post.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(US Army photo)

14

taxicab operators were subsidized, to
the extent of the difference, from
JEIA funds,

From March, 1948, when the JEIA-
licensed cabs began operation in the
US Zone, until the end of the year,
they brought in $2,828,000 in foreign
exchange. In the first four months of
1949, their earnings totaled $2,102,000.

+END

Study of Universities

Dr, Eugene N. Anderson, of the
University of Nebraska's History
Department, has arrived in Hesse on
a two-month tour of western German
universities. Dr. Anderson is studying
humanities in German universities
and the possibility of improving the
exchange program of students and
educators between the United States
and Germany.

Dr. Anderson visited Germany in
1946 as a member of the joint Army-
State Department committee headed
by Dr. George Zook, American
Council of Education president, which
drew up early educational recommen-
dations for Germany.

Child Research Project

A child development center and
institute, modeled along the lines of
research conducted at the University
of Maryland in the United States,
will be opened in Stuttgart next
summer. Five Germans, to staff the
new institute, will be trained for
their work by Dr. Dan Prescott who
has conducted the research at the
University of Maryland.

The Stuttgart project, which OMGWB
education and cultural relations of-
ficials describe as the first of ‘its kind
in Europe, was initiated by the Rocke-
feller Foundation which is to supply
the funds for the purchase of library
materials for the institute. Its offices
are to be located in the Linden
Museum building.

Trawlers Returned to Dutch

Three trawlers operating with the
German fishing fleet but built in
Dutch shipyards during the war have
been formally returned to the Nether-
lands government, the Bipartite Food,
Agriculture and Forestry Group an-
nounced.

JUNE 14, 1949

Slee

--- Page 18 ---
Three steps uSed since medieval times in shaping a vase on a potter's wheel (Walther Plant, Bad Koenig, Odenwald).

Glass and Ceramies

LTHOUGH the giant machines of

most modern industry dwarf
their creators, in the world of glass
and ceramics production still depends
on the hands and brains of men. This
human factor is particularly dominant
in the glass and ceramics industries
of Germany, where highly-skilled
techniques worked out through the
centuries shape products admired the
world over.

Not all of Germany's glass and ce-
ramics products, of course, are pro-
duced by hand. Window glass, por-
celain insulators or bathtubs are
naturally a part of mechanized pro-
duction. But the basis of the country’s
reputation in these two fields rests
upon the knowledge she has added to
the original simple handicrafts of
glass blowing and clay shaping.

Personal creation of glass and ce-
ramics objects has bestowed on them
the special artistic qualities of their
makers. It was not enough merely to
produce a goblet that would hold
water; it must also be pleasing in
shape and perhaps decorated with
interesting designs. As skills were
learned, fathers gradually imparted a
lifetime's knowledge to their sons;
boys and girls worked with master
technicians, watching and learning
through apprenticeship. In some Ger-
man glass industries, five generations
have followed each other, In Bavarian
porcelain plants it is not uncommon
to find workers who have spent a
half century contributing to Ger-

many'’s reputation as master of ce-
ramics.

JUNE 14, 1949

by Marjorie A. Yahraes
Staff Writer
Information Bulletin

HIS RENOWN, interrupted by wars

and a late 19th-century decline
in artistic vigor, has continued for
more than 200 years. Industries that
started as handicrafts keep pace with
modern demand for quantity pro-
duction. The making of glassware,
for example, is one of Germany's
oldest techniques. Still, in 1938, Ger-
many was one of the big three world
producers along with the United
States and the Soviet Union,

Like the porcelain industry, most
German glassware plants sprang up
near the Czech border. They par-
allel the frontier south of Selb in Ba-
varia. Early Bohemian glassmakers
were available here to offer their
skills, Also charcoal was needed for
fuel and could be found in nearby
forests. Up to 150 years ago charcoal
was the principal fuel; only coal is
used today. Although brown coal can
be obtained to some extent from
Czechoslovakia for the making of Ba-
varian artistic glassware, production
of such items as sheet glass or bottles
requires large amounts of coal, Newer
plants, consequently, have built up in
other regions of Germany. Ap-
proximately half of Germany's in-
dustrial flat glass factories are in the
British Zone while only a slightly
smaller number of processing and
finishing plants cluster near coal de-
posits in the Soviet Zone. In the

15

glassware industry of west Germany
there ware 382 plants with 10 or
more employees in January 1949.

Glass is often divided into flat
(sheet, cast, mirror, colored flat and
special flat) and hollow (bottles, pre-
serving, packing, household and dec-
orative, and chemical and _ technical)
products. However, optical glass-
making, a highly specialized craft,
may be considered part of the pro-
duction of technical instruments.

LASSMAKING holds a fascination
for its creators: although it is
an early discovery, many facets of
tle craft are still unknown, Glass
workers even today are learning new
effects to be obtained from certain
coloring agents and the results one
gets from varying the quantity or
variety of raw materials used.
Commercial glass is made up of 60
to 80 percent silica which is sand in
its most common form. Sode, the most
important glassmaking oxide next to
silica, is usually added as soda ash.
Germany's end-of-the-war and early
postwar production of glass was
hampered by a severe shortage of this
raw material. Besides coloring agents,
other raw materials needed to pro-
duce various types of glass items in-
clude potash used as pearl ash, lime,
lead oxide, barium oxide, zinc oxide,
boron oxide and sometimes alumina.
Conversion of molten glass into
finished products requires great skill.
There are today five fundamental
processes: blowing, pressing, drawing.
{Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
rolling and casting. In the early days
of glass-making, “offhand” production,
which included blowing, was done
without even the simplest mold
equipment, It generally is used,
sometimes in modified form, by Ger-
man plants which make artistic ware.
The tools needed for shaping these
handmade objects are quite simple and
almost unchanged from those of me-
diaeval times, Lack of machinery for
postwar glassmaking has not been a
serious problem, except in a few in-
stances, such as bulbs for electric
lamps.

The skills of glassmakers come only
from practice. No one could learn to
make a goblet by reading a book, First,
the raw materials are melted in pots
and allowed to cool several hundred
degrees. The right amount of hot
glass must next be gathered onto the
end of a blow-pipe. The worker then
blows and while blowing, the pipe is
rolled back and forth and a_bulb-
shaped piece of hot glass is formed
with a wooden paddle. More hot
glass is added from the pot and the
stem is shaped. Another ‘gather is
added to form the base of the goblet

Exhibition of fine Bavarian glass at Haus der Kunst, Munich.

*

eRe

and finally, the excess glass at the
lip is sheared away like taffy candy.

NOTHER hand method known as
lamp working—the heating of
readymade glass tubing over gas
burners— is used for creating all
kinds of glass novelties, Scientific and
surgical apparatus also are made in
this manner,

Molds for glass usually are of cast
iron and in making such objects as
tumblers or baking dishes the hot
glass is dropped into the mold and
then shaped by pressing a plunger
down into the molten mass, Lacking
iron, some of Germany's molds are
made of wood.

For artistics ware, cut glass deco-
rations are sketched on the finished
item with a brush. Then a slowly re-
volving sandstone wheel cuts the
design either in a hollow cut, bevel
cut or a flat panel cut. The rough
white surface which remains is re-
turned to its former luster by hydro-

fluoric acid or polishing on felt
wheels,

These final tasks of polishing,
processing and finishing are

the work of ap-
proximately two-

thirds of west
Germany's glass
factories. Some-

times cutting, re-
fining and deco-
rating is done in
the same _ plant
which makes the
item. Ir other
cases little shops
exist for decades
in the shadow of
large glassmaking
factories.

FEW west
German

plants resumed
postwar produc-
tion as early as
the fall of 1945.
Altogether, they
had suffered less
than four percent
war damage. Mil-
itary Govern-
ment, anxious io
relieve the criti-
cal shortage of
flat glass needed
for building pur-
poses in the US
Zone, put two
plants into opera-
tion in September

and October 1945, Decorative-type
glass factories began producing in the
summer of 1946, The wide variety of
shapes and decorations of articles
made it impossible to start regular ex-
port of these items before June 1947,

In 1936, the Bizone produced
222,096 metric tons of flat glass and
218,136 metric tons of hollow glass;
in 1948, production reached 210,907
metric tons of flat glass and 191,333
metric tons of hollow glass. Soaring
postwar prices, however, make 1948's
lower productions more valuable than
that of 1936: the gross value of west
German glass in 1936 was approxi-
mately $55,200,000 while in 1948 it
was worth $77,220,000.

OST of Germany's exports glass

markets are in the United States
and Canada where crystal glass, flat
glass specialties and glass tinsel are
in demand. Switzerland welcomes all
kinds of glass products, but—like other
foreign markets—she wants low prices
and high quality.

This is one of the most serious prob-
lems confronting the German glass
industry: how to cut production costs
yet keep high standards to compete in
world markets. Because a huge de-
mand for glass products had existed
in west Germany, many manufacturers
have not yet faced this problem.

In 1943, the approximate percent-
age of distribution of the glass in-
dustry in the areas now comprising
western Germany, the Soviet Zone and
Polish -Administered Germany was as

follows:
Hollow Processed and

Flat Class Class Finished Class
Western Zones 71 48 30
Soviet Zone 16 48 AS
Polish-Adm, 1 7 25

This meant west German factories
could not keep up with the wants of
the British, French and US Zones. Ap-
proximately 80 percent of the better
types of stemware and household
glass items are sold within Germany.
The need for flat glass in building far
exceeds production. Why, manufac-
turers say, should we try to capture
foreign markets when we have such
a demand for our products at home?

EVERAL members of the German

Association of Glassware Manu-
facturers, however, foresee a time
when export markets will be nec-
essary. Demands are being supplied
within the country; US Army orders
are being eliminated. The immediate
need for glass products in goods-
starved countries of western Europe is
easing. Ten new glass factories in
west Germany which duplicate prod-

JUNE 14, i949

--- Page 20 ---
ucts of the East Zone must start
looking to the future. It has been pro-
posed that the factories use profits
made on home sales to cover losses
on export, but most companies still
prefer to cultivate the German market.

Of special importance in the pro-

duction of hollow ware products—par-
ticularly crystal ware and decorated
products which are almost entirely for
export—is a better knowledge of cur-
rent styles and trends in other coun-
tries. It is estimated that the glass
industry is approximately three
years behind the china industry in
knowing what export buyers want.
Although decorative glass products of
Germany may be wrought with in-
finite skill and delicacy, manufac-
turers are learning at foreign trade
fairs that their objects have been
created without a thorough understand
ing of style changes during the past
15 to 20 years. Through trade fairs and
travel in other countries to study new
designs, German manufacturers may
learn new ideas on how to compete
actively in world markets.

Allied to the glassware industry
are the Gablonz products produced by
10,000—15,000 Sudeten Germans who
trekked from Czechoslovakia since
the war with little or no equipment to
settle in the two areas of Bayreuth
and Kaufbeuren. The Gablonz workers
were extended $58,000 credit by JEIA
for the importation of raw materials,
which are now being used. Gablonz
workers when they lived in Czecho-
slovakia were largely home workers
producing in small groups, It has been
very difficult for them to organize and
follow an over-all plan of production.
In addition, their buttons, beads and
costume jewelry are comparatively
high-priced luxury items difficult to
sell at this time. From 1946 to 1948
their exports totaled $56,000.

HE GERMAN ceramics industry is

not plagued by the particular
difficulties of the glassware manu-
facturers, It has made a swift postwar
recovery hampered only by shortages
of raw materials and trained workers.
Famous for centuries, ceramics prod-
ucts of Germany show ‘technicians
have not allowed their skills to de-
teriorate through the decades. Also,
they seem able to discard out-of-date
styles and methods in favor of new
improvements.

Ceramics production for con-
venience is sometimes divided into
five categories: earthenware and stone
ware, tiles, technical and chemical

JUNE 14, 1949

abrasives,
and household
and decorative
porcelain. In
January 1949
there were 429
plants in west
Germany with
49,000 workers
making these
products.

Although the
story of Ger-
many’s china in-
dustry comes first
to mind, other
products have
also held a val-
ued place in Ger-
man ceramics
production.
Earthenware and
stone ware, for
example, also
have an early
history in Ger-
many. Artistic
stone ware first
appeared about
1540 at Cologne.
At that time it
was recognizable
by the brown
stain of its salt
glaze. German
items gradually
spread to Eng-
land from the Rhine region, Today,
western Germany's production in
this field—including such objects as
flower pots, crockery and food con-
tainers—is largely for home consump-
tion. There were 10,365 metric tons
of earthenware and stone ware pro-
duced in 1948.

ware,

ARTHENWARE plants also turn

out floor and wall tile, the two
largest plants being in Bremen. The
making of stove tiles is an important
industry for home consumption dating
back to the invention of the popular
“Nuremberg Stove” in the 16th cen-
tury. This large coal-burning stove,
covered with ornate tiles, is still a
favorite method of single-room space
heating in Germany.

Technical and chemical ware and
high and low tension electrical ma-
terials are also finding large markets
at home. The most important tech-
nical-producing factories in western
Germany are owned by the Rosen-
thal Company, also famous as pro-
ducers of china. The technical por-
celain industry leaped ahead during

17

Table setting of “Helena” pattern china and glass

the war when porcelain—pipes and
even steam radiators—took the place
of former metal products. Postwar
metal shortages have increased the
demand. Technical and chemical ce-
ramics plants produced 3,278 metric
tons during 1948. Factories making
sanitary ceramics could not keep up
with civilian requirements during the
same year when they produced
12,638 metric tons, Perhaps the most
important items in the technical field
are electrical porcelain insulators, A
large part of the 14,219 metric tons
of high and low tension material made
in 1948 is sold in home markets. In
fact, only 10 to 15 percent of all tech-
nical porcelain can be exported be-
cause of west German needs.

In the abrasives industry the manu-
facture of tiles and grinding wheels in
the Frankfurt area accounts for the
major output. Agricultural whetstones
and sized abrasives also form an im-
portant part of the products. The .
Rhineland supplies artificial corundum,
and Bavaria carborundum as raw
materials. (Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Ceramics from 45 plants on display at Haus der Kunst, Munich.

Worker sponges glaze on bowl before firing.

German ceramics plants di

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 22 ---
After firing, china is removed from firestone.

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 23 ---
Basis for all these products was
the discovery of porcelain which long
ago gave Germany the lead in ce-
ramics on the European continent. It
especially gave her the foundation
for her world-famous china industry.

HILE the Europeans were still

dabbling with clay and
earthenware the Chinese during the
15th and 16th centuries perfected por-
celain—a glazed, hard-fired, trans-
lucent product which was examined
with wonder when it reached Europe.
Alchemists and pottery-makers tried
in vain to learn the process of making
the new white material. Artificial por-
celain was made in Florence in
1575—85 by workers under the pa-
tronage of Francesco de Medici. But
not until 1709 was true porcelain
made, In this year Johann Friedrich
Boettger discovered a hard-paste por-

celain. Boettger thought he could
change base metals into gold—a
common belief at that time—and

Augustus the Strong, King of Saxony,
kept him a virtual prisoner while he
conducted his experiments. Boettger's
first porcelain was smoky in tone and
was decorated with acanthus leaves,
masks and rich decorations.

The next year the plant moved to
Albrechtsburg at Meissen (Saxony,
now in Soviet Zone) to become the
oldest porcelain manufacturing plant
on the continent. However, it was not
until 1715 that the making of white
porcelain was fully mastered.

Although Augustus tried to keep
the discovery secret it was impossible.

In 1718 a runaway Meissen worker
betrayed the secrets and a factory
was established in Vienna. Gradually
plants were built all over Germany—
at Berlin in 1752, at Hoechst around
1746, in Fuerstenberg in Brunswick
in 1753, in Neudeck at the city limits
of Munich in 1747. The Neudeck fac-
tory, state-sponsored, was transferred
in 1761 toNym-
phenburg, ja

suburb of Mu-
nich, The Meis-
sen plant and
the Nymphen-
berg plant are
the only orig-
inal factories
of this era in
existence  to-
day. The Meissen plant produces
largely for export to the Soviet Union
at present, while the Nymphenburg
factory, famous for its decorative por-
celain and fine chinaware, is
reestablishing contact with former
markets in Europe and the United
States,

ACTORIES also grew up in

western Bavaria—the Selb region
—where Bohemian workers and raw
materials were at hand. Brown coal
was present in nearby mines and a
special china clay called kaolin.

For probably a hundred years the
porcelain industry flourished. Plants
created a variety of forms, many
highly intricate and ornate. In-
dividual factories came to be known
for a special style; for example, the

After figurine parts are removed irom molds separate pieces must be carefully

joined in preparation for firing.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

Sans Souci china pattern of the
Rosenthal Company or the basket
pattern of Nymphenburg. One of the
greatest artists in the field of dec-
orative porcelain was Franz Antony
Bustelli who, for eight years, created
highly artistic figurines and china
designs for the Nymphenburg plant.
His whole set of characters taken
from Dante's Divine Comedy show
so much life and character that
reproductions from his models, over
150 years old, are still popular today.

HE latter half of the 19th century

saw a decline in the freshness and
originatlity of German porcelain prod-
ucts. Court tradition was crumbling
yet the ceramics industry still kept
the accepted styles. Factory artists
seemed to lack the ability to think
up new ideas. A revival in artistic
creation appeared in the 20th century

centering largely in two men—
Thomas Schmuz-Baudisz and Max
Laeuger. Both learned from potters

in the Black Forest and were attracted
to the simpler peasant designs. Laeu-
ger worked in Karlsruhe (then in)
Baden), making jugs and vases of
deep, even color with applied motifs
from nature in a different color, He
also designed a large number of tile
decorations, Schmuz-Baudisz sought
to free the Berlin factory where he
worked of its dependency upon court
taste. His decorations are more
stylized then those of Laeuger, He
also introduced a method of painting ~
before glazing at the Berlin plant.
Some impartial experts maintain
that the Nymphenburg plant has
shown more continuous artistic pro-
gress than any other porcelain fac-
tory in Germany. In 1887, when

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 24 ---
Kaolin, quartz and feldspar are basic
raw materials from which fine porce-

Tgin objects are made,

Albert Baeuml became plant director,
young artists with new ideas were
brought into the foreground. Painstak-
ing experiments were made to repro-
duce and improve the china of the
18th century. Most important of the
“new” artists brought to Nymphen-
burg was Josef Wackerly who
pioneered in producing _ life-like
peasant groups rather than the
rococco forms of an earlier day.

World War II left the china in-
dustry almost unscathed. As a whole,
not more than six percent damage
was suffered by porcelain plants
during the war, The Nymphenburg
plant was about one-half destroyed,
but most factories located in the Selb
region near the Czech border were
near no important war-producing
industries.

ECAUSE of their value as an

exporting group and their lack
of damage, the china industries were
encouraged to reenter world markets
as soon as possible. Chosen as a
“pilot industry,” china manufactories
in the US Zone were able to reactivate
with raw materials bought by Military
Government with $7,500,000 lent by
US Commercial Corporation,

In those early days shortages were
common. There are approximately
35 different materials needed in the
making of china ware including tur-
pentine from France, flints from Den-
mark, fine sponges from Greece,
china clay from Czechoslovakia,
manganese ore from Holland, fine
gold from the United States, metallic
cadmium from Australia, and anti-
mony oxide from China and Bolivia.
With raw materials needed from all
corners of the world it was almost
impossible for one plant to have all
the products necessary, Factories,
therefore, bartered among themselves
to keep production moving.

As a result, china manufacture was
one of the first post war industries
to produce in volume. For a year,
from Feb. 1948 until Feb. 1949, JEIA
established a bonus system which
further promoted its growth. Manu-
facturers were allowed to spend
10 percent of all foreign exchange
earned—five percent for raw materials
or factory improvements, and five
percent to accrue to workers for es-
sential foods and clothing.

LTHOUGH the industry's output
still is only approximately half
that of 1936—45,300 metric tons in

JUNE 14, 1949

1936; 22,551 metric tons in 1948—prod-
ucts are equal in quality. This is a
good record considering raw material
shortage and the need for highly-
skilled workers who have the in-
tricate knowledge of  porcelain-
making

Making a high-quality piece of
china is a carefully-planned process.

Production at the Nymphenburg
factory is perhaps typical, In the
factory mill, 50 percent kaolin,

25 percent quartz and 25 percent
feldspar are pulverized together. The
water is pressed out of the creamy
mass so that it may be formed into
square cakes, These cakes are then
aged for 14 to 16 months in a store-
room at an even temperature of 50
to 53.6 degrees Fahrenheit.

After aging, the cakes are thrown
into a kneading machine which in two
hours makes the “dough” pliable for
the turners’ room. As in the earliest
days, the potters’ wheels of Nymphen-
burg are waterpowered. After shap-
ing by hand the plate or vase is
placed over a gypsum alabaster
mold for about a day and then re-
moved for final trimming or smooth-
ing. The more complicated figurines
are made in parts with a_ special
mold for each leg, arm or head, The
same raw material is used for
figurines except that it is of a more
liquid consistency and can be poured
into the mold. The figurine is removed
from the mold and after the parts are
smoothed and joined the object is
ready for firing, where it will shrink
about 14 percent.

ORCELAIN is baked two times

in the kilns—the first time at
1,652 degrees Fahrenheit to harden
it. Then it is dipped in glaze—almost
the same material except that more
feldspar has been added—and fired
again, this time at 2,372 degrees
Fahrenheit.

Placing objects in the kilns and
keeping the fires going is in itself a
time-consuming process. Each piece
of porcelain must have a firestone
mold around it for protection, Some
factories add fillers to the kilns, such
as forms for rubber gloves and other
technical items, so that space and
fuel will not be wasted.

For fuel, many factories use two-
thirds brown coal and the remainder
hard coal from the Ruhr. It requires
five to seven tons of coal to produce
one ton of finished ware. The Nym-
phenburg plant uses peat from fields
near Munich, The fires must be kept
going for about 48 hours and must be
replenished every 10 minutes during
that time. For four or five days after-
ward the kilns are allowed to cool.

If the object is to be decorated,
special metal oxide colors are used
and the porcelain is fired a third
time at 1,652 degrees Fahrenheit for
12 hours. Then, when the gold designs
are polished the porcelain at last
is ready for sorting and shipping.

China is examined carefully for
flaws which would damage the repu-
tation of the factory, Hand painting
on china may sometimes cover small

(Continued on next page)

Liquid raw material is poured into mold; allowed to stand for about two hours

until shape of vase is formed.

21

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

--- Page 25 ---
discolorations in the porcelain, but
a reputable factory does not hide
real flaws with paint. Plates are
stacked to discover warping of the
edges, and when held to the light
a good porcelain piece shows an
even translucency comparable to its
thickness.

Finding skilled workers has been
a problem in the post war years, for
there are small “tricks” to making
good porcelain which only time and
observation can teach. In the turners’
room and among the aritsts in the
painting shops of most china plants
are apprentices who will work be-
side masters in the trade for three
years. Even after they have worked
for years workers must perform their
work with infinite patience and skill.
Nothing is accomplished in haste. A
Nymphenburg artist, for example,
who was to create a_ porcelain
monkey studied the animal's move-
ments and expressions for three-
quarters of a year before an ac-
ceptable figure was created.

Because they must use workers
who are not thoroughly trained, some
factories report that about 60 percent
of the china now made is of superior
quality, 30 percent is inferior and
10 percent must be broken up and
recast.

Besides a shortage of trained work-
ers, securing brown coal and kaolin
from Czechoslovakia has been a
problem, Plants have been aeared to
formulas requiring Czech kaolin. Kilns
were constructed years ago for the
use of Czech brown coal. But today,
it is becoming increasingly difficult
to get enough of either of these raw
materials.

ITH FUTURE imports uncer-

tain, factories are beginning
to make experiments with kaolin
from other parts of the world includ-
ing Belgium and Holland. The Rosen-
thal plants are experimenting with a
special clay from Florida which prom-
ises to be of good quality for por-
celain products. Experiments take

Illustrations for this article were
furnished through the assistance of the
Bavarian Foreign Trade Division, JEIA,
in Munich and the Frankfurt branch of
the Public Information Office, OMGUS,
and from the photographic files of the
Information Bulletin.

Credit for the photographs:

Cover — Rosenthal (1)

15 — Schoenborn, OMGUS PIO (3)

16 — Messefoto (1)

17 — Rosenthal (1)

18 & 19 — Al Byers, JEIA (4), US Army

(1), Rosenthal (4)

20 to 22 — Rosenthal (7), Byers (1)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

from one to two
years, however,
before the factory
can make certain
that a new kaolin
is usable. Ruhr
coal also is being
used to take the
place of con-
stantly dwindling
amounts of Czech
brown coal im-
ported.

Lack of mar-
kets, however, is
not a_ serious
problem. Al-
though only 10-20
percent of the
china produced is
of modern design,
foreign buyers
seem eager to get
famous traditional
patterns. The
most popular din-
ner ware sets are
those which are
“medium-priced”
and cost $38 to
$75 at the Ger-
man factory. This
figure must be
multiplied by four
to reach the retail
price asked in the
United States.
Baroque and roc-
occo designs are especially popular
among US customers. Rosenthal re-
ports that a baroque, flowered design,
Sans Souci, is now its US favorite.

“Gemmo" china, manufactured by
Heinrich and Company, Selb, is a new
export type. It features the completely
new idea of decorating chinaware by
cutting as on crystal glassware. Ex-
periments in cutting china have failed
for some 300 years because of the
brittleness of the porcelain.

ALE of German porcelain in the

United States and Canada is
meeting some competition from Japan
which can produce fine designs and
patterns at one-third the German
price. German china factories, there-
fore, are finding competition ever
more keen However, the household
and decorative porcelain industry is
expected to maintain its world stand-
ing because of its high quality prod-
ucts and its flexibility in meeting
the demands of world markets,

+END

22

Making insulators here shown, as well as
other technical products is an important part

Prices and Black Market

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg, Bavaria) rejoiced in the
fall of the black market:

“This time it really appears to be
on the run. Prices are falling through-
out West Germany, which would
appear to indicate that this develop-
ment is not merely due to temporary
local conditions. The black market is
on the defensive all along the line...
The average citizen must need have
recourse to it in only exceptional
instances now.

“The black market now only has a
chance in cases where shortages still
exist, as with fats, for instance; or
in cases where the state is too greedy
with taxes — coffee, tea, cocoa...
Due to the steady revival of West
German economy and the Marshall
Plan deliveries, supply is becoming
more and more abundant — to the
dismay or black marketeers. For
others, including countless children,
so long at their mercy, this means
the long hoped-for ray of hope.”

JUNE 14, 1949

a wide variety o.
of ceramics

--- Page 26 ---
|
|

Occupational Aetivities

Cost of Living

Clothing, household goods, heat
and light cost Germans of the Bizonal
Area less during April but their de-
clines could not offset the increases
made in other commodity groups.
BICO's Commerce and Industry Group
announced the cost-of-living index
for April was 143.1, one-tenth of a
point higher than in March, but still
one point under the post-currency
reform peak reached in December.
The index, based on 1938 level as
100, represents the cost of living of
the typical worker's family of five
which had been bombed out of their
home during the war.

The greatest increase was for
tobacco, spirits and coffee in the
stimutants group, which was up 2.6
points. The cost of food rose only
seven-tenths of one point, Other rises
were in the groups for cleaning and
toilet items, education and entertain-
ment, and transportation.

The cost of clothing continued its
downward trend, declining 4.7 points
in April. Household goods dropped
5.2 points while heat and light de-
clined one-tenth of one point, Rent,
which is controlled in the Bizone,
remained the same.

Basic Materials Index—A slight
drop was noted in the basic materials
price index, averaging 186.6 for April
as compared with March's index of
188.5, The industrial materials decline
was due largely to price drops in
lead, zinc, cow hides, calf skins,
bricks! and lumber, In the agricultural
items group, price declines were re-
corded in potatoes—due to the large
supply on the market—, eggs, cattle
and calves,

American Music

Four groups of American musicians
will tour the US Zone of Germany
this summer under the OMGUS visit-
ing- artist program', whose continu-
ance was made possible by private
contributions of $25.000 in the United
States. The principal contributor was
the Oberlander Trust Fund, established
in New York City to promote better
understanding between Germany and
the United States.

1 See “Visiting American Artists’’ in In-
formation Bulletin, Issue No. 142, Aug. 24, 1948.

JUNE 14, 1949

The visiting artists, selected for
German appearances by a panel of
prominent musicians and critics in
New York City, are:

Milton Katims, conductor of the
NBC Symphony Orchestra, who will
appear in viola recitals in several
cities of the US Zone,

Mack Harrell, baritone of the Metro-
politan Opera Company of New
York, who will give personal recitals
and appear as guest singer with
leading German opera companies.

The Yale Glee Club composed of
60 students of Yale University which
will appear in Munich, Heidelberg and
Frankfurt under the direction of
Conductor Marshall Bartholemew.

The Walden String Quartet, com-
posed of music faculty members of
the University of Illinois, which will
start a six-week tour of the zone in
mid-June.

Explaining that the purpose of the
visiting-artist program is to present
American culture toGerman audiences,
Mr. John Evarts, OMGUS music
chief, said only American-born artists

who have received most of their
professional training in the United
States are sponsored under the
program,

MG Jobless Survey

Fifty-five percent of all unemploy-
ed in the Bizonal area have been
jobless for less than three months,
according to a Military Government
study of the average duration of
unemployment as of the end of
March.

In many branches of the manufact-
uring industry, howewer, 60 to 70
percent of the those out of work in
these branches became unemployed
within the three months of January
to March, while 48 and 43 percent
of the unemployed agricultural work-
ers and white collar workers,
respectively, became unemployed
within the last three months.

Other results of the study showed:

Of the unemployed in the three
predominantly agricultural states of
Schleswig-Holstein, Lower Saxony
and Bavaria, 53 percent had been
unemployed for less than three
months,

Of the unemployed in the two
predominantly industrial states of
North-Rhine-Westphalia and Wuert-

23

temberg-Baden, 74 percent had been

unemployed for less than three
months.

In the industrial states 25 percent
of the unemployed had _ been

without jobs for less than 14 days,
while in the agricultural states, only
nine percent had been out of work
for 14 days.

Baseball and Democracy:

Fourteen-year-old Erich Wagner
had learned about the American
game of baseball by being batboy
and ball chaser for some GI teams
around Mannheim. Most of the sol-
diers had departed so Erich tried to

get his playmates to organize a
team. But they didn’t have any
equipment.

To the scoffs of his friends, Erich
decided to appeal to the director of
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden for some
baseball equipment because he was
interested in “that democratic Amer-
ican game." He also suggested that
it might be a good way to “learn
fair play.”

A few days later Erich was visited
by Mr. Leon A, Shelnut, chief of
OMGWB Group Activities Branch,
He brought a set of baseball gloves,
six bats and six balls, and also per-
sonal greetings from the OMG di-
rector,

As Erich and his friends tried out
the new equipment, Erich’s mother
expressed her feeling: “This gives me
a real idea of what democracy is.
Imagine my boy getting an answer
from the chief of Military Govern-
ment.”

Decartelization
Alcohol Control Probe—The
production, allocation, sales and

imports of alcohol in Germany is
under investigation by the US Decar-
telization Element of BICO to deter-
mine whether an alleged monopoly
exists.

Under a German law, dating from
1914, complete supervision of the
alcohol monopoly has rested in the
hands of officials who are theoreti-
cally appointed by the state finance
ministers. This group is responsible
to no governmental body except for
a periodic statistical report of
activities for tax purposes.

{Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Present investigation by the Decar-
telization Group indicates that this
alleged monopoly is operating con-
trary to the provisions of the US
Decartelization Law No. 56, concern-
ing the illegality of holding exces-
sive concentration of power.

Orthopedic Equipment—Represen-
tatives of the manufacturers of
orthopedic equipment at a _ recent
conference in’ Munich reached
agreements to include the following
points:

No examination will be expected
for this profession where a manufact-
urer has indicated that he has been
employed in this profession for more
than five years,

All contracts between governmen-
tal agencies and private concerns
providing for exclusive purchases of
artificial limbs for war veterans will
be considered null and void as of
April 25, and no such future con-
tracts will be made.

Price control, if any, will be super-
vised by a governmental agency only
and not by any guild or private
manufacturer,

Examination for this profession will
be administered by a governmental
board and not by guilds or manufact-
urers,

War veterans, entitled to ortho-
pedic equipment to be paid for by the
government, shall determine from
whom the purchase shall be made;
no influence is to be used by govern-
mental agencies to prefer one
manufacturer to another.

Censorship Nipped

The attempt of Mayor Rupert Reuter
of Bargau in Schwaebisch Gmuend
County of Wuerttemberg-Baden to
censor the news stories of the town's
correspondent for the Aalen news-
paper was sharply criticized by Mai.
Gen. Charles P, Gross, OMGWB
director, following an official investi-
gation of the mayor's request to see
the reporter's articles prior to publi-
cation,

In a letter to Minister-President
Reinhold Maier, General Gross pointed
out that the mayor's “‘letter-order”’
violated the law recently enacted by
the Wuerttemberg-Baden legislature
to provide a press ‘free from govern-
mental interference” and to declare
“censoring of the press is prohibited”.
The director requested immediate
action to rescind the mayor's letter
to the newspaper.

“It would appear that this official
is either imbued with the distorted

INFORMATION BULLETIN

attitude that was so common among
officials during the Third Reich and
is not a fit person to hold public
office, or he lacks fundamental knowl-
edge of the principles underlining
the democratic way of life,’ said Gen-
eral Gross, adding that “an official
reprimand” might meet the needs of
the situation and “stimulate a positive
interest in democratic principles in
the future”,

War of Air Waves

Soviet attempts to black out the
“Voice of America” an British Broad-
casting Company programs beamed
to eastern Europe are backfiring—
the Russian-inspired counter broad-
casts are also being knocked out. An
ISD radio official said that during the
last 10 days of May, Berlin reception
of Soviet German-language broadcasts
had been ‘crippled by the quacking
and whistling noises characteristic of
Soviet jamming.

This was due, the ISD official said,
to the spreading of the Soviet jamming
signals over a wide frequency field
so that they overlapped Soviet broad-
casts to the West. The Russian pro-
grams were completely drowned out
for several days and, at other times,
punctuated freely with the familiar
quacks and shrieks.

Children’s Reading
More children’s books from the
United States are available for publi-

cation in Germany to meet the need
for reading matter suitable for
children. Fourteen titles were among
American books for which translating
rights were recently obtained by In-
formation Service Division for German
publishers,

Postwar scarcities of special book
paper, inks and plates required in the
production of children's illustrated
books had held production to a
minimum, according to an announce-
ment ,by ISD’s Publications Branch,
A slight improvement in this situation
has prompted Military Government to
encourage the expansion of book
publishing for young readers,

Among the children’s books recently ©
made available to German publishers
are: “Tumbleweed Boy" by Eleanor
Hull; “Albert Einstein — A Biography
for Young People’ by Katherine
Owens Peare; “The Boy's King Arthur”
by Sidney Lanier; ‘Hawthorne's
Wonder Tales'’ by Nathaniel Haw-
thorne; ‘Haw Tree and Deep Woods"
by R. B. Paine; “The Prince and the
Pauper” and “A Connecticut Yankee
in King ‘Arthur's Court" by Mark
Twain; ‘Understood Betsy" by Dorothy
Canfield Fisher; “Farmer Boy" and
“Little Town in the Prairie’’ by Laura
Wilder; “Men of Iron” and "Otto of
the Silver Hand” by Howard Pyle, and
“Sleek: The Story of an Otter’ by
David M. Stearns.

Memorial Day services were marked at Hamm, Luxembourg, by the placing
of a wreath by Maj. Gen. George J. Richards, inspector general of EUCOM,

to honor the American war dead buried there.

24

(US Army photo}

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 28 ---
American Press Comments

Commissioner McCloy

It was, everybody acknowledged,
the most important job in the American
foreign service. For the man who be-
came first High Commissioner to Ger-
many would operate in the touchiest
zone of Soviet-American relationships.
He would have to cope with the Rus-
sians, with the,Germans, and with a
divided but highly vocal American
public opinion. And he would invite
comparison with Gen. Lucius D. Clay,
who as military governor had ad-
ministered the United States zone in
Germany.

“McCloy is the man,” said official
Washington with unusual unanimity.
Tough, able and energetic, John J.
McCloy had already been tested in
the administrative tug of war of Wash-
ington politics. As Assistant Secre-
tary of War, he had been Henry L.
Stimson's reighthand man. The war-
time War Secretary had considered
him a “great find’ and a man “so
knowing” that it sometimes seemed as
if no one in Washington “ever acted
withoud first ‘having a word’ with
McCloy."

Nor was he a novice on German
reconstruction. It was McCloy who in
September 1944 had drafted the Stim-
son plan, which replaced the genocidal
plan devised by Secretary of the
Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr. for
the pastoralization of the country.

“The question is not whether we
want the Germans to suffer for their
sins,” McCloy wrote, “Many of us
would like to see them suffer the
tortures they have inflicted on others.
The only question is whether over
the years a group of 70,000,000... .
people can be kept within bounds on
such a low level of subsistence as the
Treasury proposal . . . Proverty in one
part of the world usually induces po-
verty in other parts.”

Though there was agreement on
McCloy's exceptional qualifications,
from President Truman down, there
was still the matter of getting him to
accept the newly created post. He had
left the illpaying government service
in 1945 for financial reasons. After
two years back at his private law
Practice in New York City, he had
returned to take over as president of
the International Bank for Reconstruc-

JUNE 14, 1949

Reprinted

from NEWSWEEK
Issue of May 30,1949

tion and Development at a tax-free
salary of $30,000 a year. And he had
quickly earned for the $2,000,000,000
institution the confidence of American
banking houses by declaring flatly,
“There will be no political loans.”

Triple Load: Would he be willing to
give up this long-term job for one as
vulnerable as the High Commissioner-
ship? Would he be willing to take a
taxed $25,000 salary? When the State
Department approached McCloy, he
made it clear that he would take the
job only under two conditions:

His authority in Germany would
have to be clearly defined and be
wide enough to allow him to make
policy decisions. He didn't intend to
be an office boy.

A capable successor to the Inter-
national Bank presidency would have
to be found before he would relin-
quish it.

Last Wednesday, when the President
announced McCloy's appointment,
both conditions had been met. As High
Commissioner, McCloy would be
“supreme United States authority in
Germany.” And the bank would be
turned over to Eugene Black, senior
vice president of the Chase National
Bank.

McCloy'’s supreme authority would
apply in a three-cornered capacity: (1)
He would assume the military gov-
ernor’s functions; (2) he would be
chief of mission of the American Dip-
lomatic corps; and (3) he would. be
over-all head of the Economic Cooper-
ation Administration in Germany.

Only a man trained in the complex-
ities of administration could handie
this triple work load. Discipline, more
than brilliance, was the basic require-
ment—and of that McCloy had plenty.
As a negotiator, he knew the value of
the cool approach and the short, in-
cisive statement. His broad-shouldered,
athletic build, masculine good looks,
and piercing dark eyes radiated a
power which his determinedly bald-
ing pate could not negate. “Run with
the swift”—a phrase which crops
up frequently in his conversation—

25

summed up his
endeavor.

With the Swift: McCloy himself
had always run with the swift. Gradu-
ating from Amherst with high honors
in 1916, he entered Harvard Law
School.

The first world war interrupted
McCloys’ legal schooling. But after
service as an artillery officer in
France, he returned to Harvard to
get his degree in 1921. In the ‘20s
young lawyers did not make a beeline
for Washington and a government
job. The mecca was Wall Streets big
law firms. McCloy found his spot with
the firm of Cravath, de Gersdorf
F, Swaine & Wood. In 1930, imme-
diately after his marriage to Ellen
Zinsser, McCloy was made head of
Cravath’s Paris office.

Assigned to work on the famous
“Black Tom" explosion case, he
became an expert in German espionage
and sabotage. And it was this knowl-
edge which led Stimson to cali
McCloy to the War Department in
1940 as an adviser on counter-
espionage.

Within six months McCloy had not
only risen to an Assistant Secretary-
ship but had become Stimson’s “eyes
and ears". He had also become an
unofficial adviser to Gen. George
C, Marshall on military questions
which had a political angle. During
his five years with the department
he was entrusted with questions of
military government and with rela-
tions with the State Department.

Secretary of Cooperations: As
Stimson’s assistant, McCloy put
politics aside. His one aim was a
speedy victory. He could support
the Darlan agreement on the one
hand and later argue relentlessly for
the recognition of Gen. Charles
de Gaulle’s resistance movement as
the legitimate French government.

His knowledge of politico-military
affairs led to his appointment as
chairman of the Combined Chiefs of
Staff Civil Affairs Committee and
required his attendance at several
Big Three conferences.

But his main role was in the im-
provement of cooperation between
the War, Navy, and State Depart-

(Continued on next page)

philosophy of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
ments—an area where ancient rival-
ties perpetually cropped up. Largely at
his suggestion, a State, War, and
Navy Coordinating Committee was
set up in 1944; this group promulgated
our initial German policy, drafted
peace terms for Japan, and set policy
for American occupation forces.

For Washington, McCloy was a rare
bird. He drank little and smoked less.
He came to work early and left late.
He worked hard and expected his
colleagues and subordinates to do the
same. And he insisted on seeing for
himself the effects of his policies,
making extensive tours of all theaters
of operation.

Technically, McCloy would take
office July 1. But his job would begin
long before that date. Once in Ger-
many, the problems of shifting Ameri-
can military government from the
National Defense to the State De-
partment would fall into his hands.
Preparations for setting up a West
German provisional government
would be largely his responsibility.
In addition, he would represent the
United States on the Allied High
Commission. Swift though McCloy
might be, he would be running on a
fast track.

* * *

German Unity

The position taken by the three
Western Powers at the current Council
of Foreign Ministers session — that
German unity must be based on ex-
tension rather than abridgment of the
political and economic gains in
Western Germany — was strongly
endorsed by US press and radio com-
ment. The comment expressed surprise
at the failure of the Soviet Union to
suggest more than a return to the
Four-Power control machinery in
Germany which proved so unworkable
in the past and which events have
outmoded.

The New York Times said in part:
“Reversing their own previous prop-
aganda, and forgetting that this is
1949, the Soviets wish to turn the
clock back to 1945, when they thought
their position was so strong that by
a policy of rule or ruin they could
impose their own terms not only on
the vanquished enemy but also on a
weak and divided West. They now
wish to cancel all the progress that
has been made since those days,
including the creation of a Federal
Republic of Germany and the eco-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

nomic recovery of Western Germany,
which is an inseparable part of the
economic recovery of all Western
Europe.

“For this purpose they wish to
return to a chaotic Germany ruled by
an Allied Control Council which they
themselves declared abolished and in
which they would again claim the
power to veto every Allied action in
Germany. They wish to restore an
equally chaotic Berlin, ruled by an
Allied Kommandatura which they
tried to use as an instrument for
driving the Western Powers out of
Berlin... The only ‘progress’ they
propose is the creation of an ‘all-
German’ State Council, to be selected
by existing ‘economic organs’ in
Germany, of which they have many
in their own zone, to administer the
German economy for the advancement
of their own ends...

“To these proposals the Western
delegates have returned an unequi-
vocal reply that reverses the roles
which each side was expected to play
at the conference. The Western
Powers have demanded the political
unification of Germany as the first
condition for economic unification,
and they have insisted that any
political unification must be based
on the establishment in Soviet-
controlled Germany of the same kind
of freedom and democratic  self-
government already established in
the West.

“Barring Russian consent to this,
they proposed to continue their
support of the Federal Republic of
Germany and German economic re-
covery as the key to European re-
covery. In doing so they act in
conformity with the best principles
of the Atlantic Charter and of the
Potsdam agreement on which the
Soviets propose to take their stand.”

The New York Herald Tribune:

“Whether by mischance or miscal-
culation, the Russians have made their
formal appearance on the Paris stage
in almost as weak an attitude as could
be imagined. The great slogan of
German peace and unity has just
been stultified, with resounding effect,

by the big ‘no’ veto in the East
German elections...
“And against this background

Vishinsky's opening offer on Germany
is a return to Potsdam, to the dictator-
ship of the Kommandatura and the
Allied Control Council, to a German
‘unity’ which must involve the aboli-

26

tion in the first instance of the little
progress which the Germans have
made toward independence and feder-
ation.

“It was an offer easily replied to:
it was an offer, moreover, which
simply invited the Western Allies
into the role of the real and effective
supporters of German union, independ-
ence and rehabilitation. It leaves
the Russians in a position of de-
manding a return to an impossible
and demonstrably unworkable past.
It leaves the Western -Alliies as the
champions of the future and the
wielders of the real peace offensive...

“This first passage powerfully sug-
gests that unified policy, clear aims
and firm resolution in presenting
them are the best tools the West has
yet found for attacking the -European
question.”

* * *K

Respect for Other Nations

A Milwaukee Journal editorial,
recalling America's respect for the
rights of other nations, declared that
the American government and people
are determined to be good neighbors
to promote understanding. The edi-
torial quoted a Danish official who
told a visiting American newspaper-
man in Denmark:

“Your people are not imperialists
and never have been ...We know
your history... A nation that re-
spects the unfortified border of its
weaker neighbor to the north is not
imperialistic. A nation that, for a
hundred years, has respected the
territorial rights of its rich, but mili-
tarily weak, neighbor to the south is
not imperialistic. A country that
voluntarily helps Cuba, at its door-
step, achieve independence is not
imperialistic. A nation that pours
millions into aid for the Philippine
Islands and then turns them over to
the Filipinos is not a land grabber.

“The irrefutable evidence is there
—the increasing determination of the
American government and American
people to be good neighbors, to
respect the rights and territories of
other nations, to promote under-
standing through forbearance and
calm discussion. It cuts the ground
right out from under the Wallaces
and the Vishinskys and all the others
who hurl the charge of imperialism
at American.”

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 30 ---
German Editorial Opinion

Bonn as Capital

Most US Zone papers opposed the
selection of Bonn as capital for the
Federal Republic of Germany, princi-
pally on the ground that it was too
provincial. Some defended it for that
very reason, as offering an atmosphere
conducive to clear thinking.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich,
May 12) favored Bonn for the reason
that others oppose it:

“Before the war Frankfurt was prob-
ably the most modern and _ inter-
national German city. Through the
disappearance of its upper middle-
class, rich Jewish strata it has lost
this position. Today it is hardly more
than a big barracks for housing public
officials,

“Bonn, on the other hand, is a city
where social conditions have not been
upset and is away from the hurly-

burly... The paramount task of the
government will be to give back
political form to our scattered and

uprooted people... The atmosphere
of Bonn will be much more conducive
to quiet and coo] reasoning than is
that of Frankfurt...

“The capital of the United States is
not New York, but Washington. At
the time when Washington was
selected as capital it was much more
insignificant than is Bonn today.”

The Main Echo (Aschaffenburg,
Bavaria, May 12) criticized the se-
lection of Bonn as capital: "The city
was severely bombed. It will require
much labor and_ spiritual recon-
struction to make it worthy of being
a European capital... Even if only
as a temporary measure, a seat of
government shouldn't have the atmos-
phere of a home for old ladies.”

The Sueddeutsche Allgemeine Zei-
tung (Karlsruhe, ‘Wuerttemberg-Baden,
May 12) found good reasons for pre-
ferring Bonn:

"To choose Frankfurt as capital
would have been equivalent to
Tenouncing Berlin (as the future
capital). It would have meant the per-
manent separation of West Germany
from East Germany... The choice of
Bonn is therefore, in reality a choice
of Berlin and hence for a unified
Germany.”

JUNE 14; 1949

Democracy

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung
(Augsburg, Bavaria, May 16) solemnly
assured the world that Germans are
ripened democrats and pointed to the
tuctions in the Bavarian state
legislature as proof:

"Those persons abroad who say
that Germans are not suited to demo-
cracy ought to attend the sessions of
the Bavarian legislature and be con-
vinced of the contrary... The tem-
peramental verbal attacks, the boiling
political temperature, prove that self-
possession, democratic sense of
responsibility and South German live-
liness were not destroyed during the
12 years of dictated public opinion...
We are happy that we have a
legislature where despite earnest dis-
cussion there is a healthy spirit of
humor and give and take.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich,
May 14) discussed National Socialism’s
chances in present-day Germany:

"An opinion survey by the Institute
for Demoscopy Group (located Allens-
bach, Wuerttem-
berg. - Hohenzol-
lern) established
the fact that Na-
tional Socialism is
still held high by
many Germans,
principally be-
cause it ended the
‘chaos’ of the
Weimar Repub-
Tic... The Insti-
tute concludes
that the German
love of order-
liness paved the
way for National
Socialism.’

“This is shock-
ing to hear, but
we believe it to

As for National Socialismn, the less
it's talked about today the better.”

Der Tagesspiegel (Berlin, May 15)
said that the future of democracy in
Germany is menaced by the German's
mental "inner blockade”:

“This consists of a certain fear of
freedom, in the hesitancy of citizens
to exercise their rights... Make no
mistake, the fault lies with us, the
average citizen, when our Officials
presume to be arrogant and unjust.
We are, as a people, much too inclin-
ed to leave responsibility to those
‘on top'!"

This ‘section is devoted to
translations prepared by the
Scrutiny Board for the Informa-
tion Services Division, OMGUS,
of editorials and reports-in the
German press, The publishing of
these translations is intended to
portray what the Germans are
writing and thinking, and not
necessarily to give any concur-
rence to their views and opinions.

HYMNE DER BUNDESREPUBLIK

be true. The rem-
edy is obvious.
It consists of har-
nessing the ap-
parently inde-
structible German
love of orderliness
to the service of
democracy and
order in Europe.

»West-Staat, We-hest-Staat ii-ber a-hal-les...!*

Cartoon from Frankenpost of Hof, Bavaria, April 28, captioned: Hymn
of Federal Republic, “West State, West State over All... 1"
Characters identified as: Dr. Kurt Schumacher, chairman of the Social
Democratic Party in western Germany; Dr. Conrad Adenauer, presi-
dent of the Constitutional Assembly at Bonn and head of the Christian
Democratic Union of North Rhine/Westphalia; Dr. Thomas Dehler,
president of the Supreme Court at Bamberg, Bavaria, member of the
Constitutional Assembly and Bavarian Legislature, and chairman of
the Free Democratic Party in Bavaria; Carlo Schmid, minister of justice
of Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern and member of the Constitutional As-
sembly; Dr. Hans Ehard, minister president of Bavaria; Dr, Anton
Pfeiffer, state secretary and state chancellory of Bavaria and member
of the Constitutional Assembly.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
(Continued from page 10)
The Basic Law

of ‘Council. Under this condition, bills
can be made law with Council and
without Assembly approval. Duration
of emergency limited to six months,
and only one such period is permitted
in the term of one chancellor (81-1,
2, 3). Basic Law may not be amended
or repealed by device of legislative
emergency (81-4),

Execution of laws—With limitations,
states shall execute federal laws as
their own concern (83). Federal
government may supervise this exe-
cution and if necessary take steps
for enforcement (37-1; 84).

Federal agencies—Direct federal ad-
ministration provided for federal
finance, federal railroads, federal
postal services and for public law
corporations administering social in-
surance in more than one state

(87-1, 2), Other federal agencies, with
limitations, may be created (87-3).

“Cabinet—Federal ministers to be
appointed and dismissed by president
on request of chancellor (64).

Oath of office—President, chancel-
lor, federal ministers must pledge
allegiance to Basic Law and laws of
federation (56; 64-2).

Federal. bank—Shall be established
(88).

{Continued on page 33)

Military Governors’ Observations and Reservations to Basic Law

Approval of the Basic Law was
given May 12 by the military govern-
ors of the three western zones in a
letter to Dr. Konrad Adenauer, presi-
dent of the Parliamentary Council.
Copies of the letter were also sent to
the ministers president with author-
ization for ratification by the state
legislatures.

The letter, containing certain observa-
tions and reservations, was signed
by General Sir Brian Robertson of the
British Zone, General Pierre Koenig
of the French Zone and General Lu-
cius D. Clay of the US Zone. Text of
the letter follows.

The Basic Law passed on 8 May,
by the Parliamentary Council has
received our careful and interested
attention. In our opinion it happily
combines German democratic tradi-
tion with the concepts of represent-
ative government and a rule of law
which the world has come to
recognize as requisite to the life of
a free people.

In approving this constitution for
submission to the German people for
ratification in accordance with the
provisions of Article 144 (1) we be-
lieve that you will understand that
there are several reservations which
we must make.

In the first place, the powers vested
in the Federation by the Basic Law,
as well as the powers exercised by
Laender (States) and local govern-
ments are subject to the provisions
of the Occupation Statute which we
have already transmitted to you and
which is promulgated as of this date.

In the second place, it should be
understood that the police powers
contained in Article 91 (2) may not

be exercised until specifically approv- .

ed by the Occupation Authorities.
Likewise the remaining police func-
tions of the federation shall be gov-
erned by our letter to you of 14 April
1949 on this subject.t

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A third reservation concerns the
participation of Greater Berlin in the
federation. We interpret the effect of
Articles 23 and 144 (2} of the Basic
Law as constituting acceptance of
our previous request that while Ber-
lin may not be accorded voting mem-
bership in the Bundestag (assembly)
or Bundesrat (council) nor be gov-
erned by the federation. She may,
nevertheless, designate a small num-
ber of representatives to attend the
meetings of those legislative bodies.

A fourth reservation relates to Ar-
ticles 29 and 118 and the general
question of the reorganization of
Laender boundaries. Excepting in the
case of Wuerttemberg, Baden and
Hohenzollern our position on this
question has not changed since we
discussed the matter with you on
March 2%, Unless the High Com-
missioners should unanimously agree
to change this position the powers
set forth in these articles shall not be
exercised and the boundaries of all of
the Laender excepting Wuerttemberg,
Baden and Hohenzollern shall remain
as now fixed until the time of the
peace treaty.

Fifthly, we consider that Article 84,
paragraph 5, and Article 87, para-
graph 3, give to the federation very
wide powers in the administrative
field. The High Commissioners will
have to give careful consideration to
the exercise of such powers in order
to insure that they do not lead to
excessive concentration of authority.

At our meeting with you on April 25,
we proposed to you a formula to
interpret in English the intention of

1 Federal police agencies will be allowed
for the following purposes: control of frontier
crossings, collection and dissemination of
police information including information on
subversive activities, coordination of investi-
gation of federal law violations and imple-
mentation of international police responsibility.

2 See “Bonn Council Advised on Basic Law
Draft’ in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 157,
March 22, 1949.

28

Article 72 (2), 3. This formula which
you accepted as conveying your
meaning read as follows:

. because the maintenance of
legal or economic unity demands it
in order to promote the economic
interests of the Federation or to in-
sure reasonable equality of economy
opportunity to all persons.” We wish
you to know that the High Com-
missioners will interpret this article
in accordance with this text.

In order to eliminate the possibility
of future legal controversy, we would
like to make it clear that when we
approved constitutions for the Laen-
der we provided that nothing con-
tained in those constitutions could be
interpreted asrestricting the provisions
of the federal constitution. Conflict
between Laender constitutions and
the provisional federal constitution
must, therefore, be resolved in favor
of the latter.

We should also like it to be clearly
understood that upon the convening
of the legislative bodies provided for
in the Basic Law, and upon election
of the president and the election and
appointment of the chancellor and
the federal ministers, respectively, in
the manner provided for in the Basic
Law, the government of the Federal
Republic of Germany will then be
established and the Occupation Stat-
ute shall thereupon enter into force.

On the completion of their final
task as laid down in Article 145, 1,
the Parliamentary Council will be
dissolved.

We wish to take this occasion to
compliment the members of the Par-
liamentary Council on their successful
completion of a difficult task per-
formed under trying circumstances,
on the manifest care and thoroughness
with which they have done their work
and on their devotion to the demo-
cratic ideals toward the achievement
of which we are all striving. END

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 32 ---
Authorized Anglo-American Text of

Basic

Conscious of its lity belore God and
resolve to preserve its national and political and to serve world
pence as am equal partoer in a united Europe, the Cermen people
in the Laender Baden, Ba
Saxony, North: Rhine-Westpha
Holstein. Wuerttember¢-Baden and Wuerttemt
hhas, by virtue of its constituent power, enacted this Basic Law of the
Federal Republic of Germanv to give a new order to politcal ite for
transitional period.
It acted also on behalf of those Germans to whom participation was
denied
The entire German people is called wpon to accomplish, by free sell-
determination, the unily and freedom of Germanys

kind, filled with the

1
BASIC RIGHTS
A

et

(1) The dignity of man shall be inviolable. To respect and protect it
shall be the duty of all state authority

{2} The German people therefore acknowledges inviolable and in-
alienable human rights as the basis of every human community, of peace
and of justice in the world

(3) The following basic rights shall be binding 'as directly valid Ia
on legislation, administration and judiciary

Article 2
(1) Evoryone shall have the right to the free development of his pers-
onality. insofar as he does not infringe the rights of others or offend
against the constitutional order or the moral code.
(2) Everyone shall have the right to life and physical inviolability. The
freedom of the individual shall be inviolable. These rights bbe int
fered with only on the basis of a law

Article 3

{1) All men shall be equal before the law

(2) Men and women shall have equal rights

(3) No one may be prejudiced or privileged because of his sex, des-
cent, race, language, homeland and origin, faith or his religious aod poli-
tical opinions

Article 4
(1) Freedom of faith and conscience and freedom of religious and
( i shall be
(2) Undisturbed practice of religion shall be guaranteed.
(3) No one may be compelled against his conscience to perform war
service as a combatant. Details shail be regulated by a federal law

Article 5

U1) Everyone hall have the right fvesy to express and to disseminate
his opinion through speech, writing and illustration and, without hind-
Tancer fo inergcthinell irom generally accessible sources, Freedom
of the press and freedom of reporting by radio and motion pictures shall
be guaranteed. There shall be no censorship

(2) These rights shall be limited by the provisions of the general laws.
the legal regulations for the protection of juveniles and by the right
of personal honour

(3) Art and science, research and teaching shall be free Freedom of
teaching shall not absolve from loyalty to the constitution

Article 6
(1) Marriage and family shall be under the special protection’ of the
state.

(2) The care and upbring'ng of children shall be the natural right of
parents and the supreme duly incumbent upon them The state shall
Watch over their activity

(3) Children may be separated from the family against the will of
those entitled to bring them up only on a legal basis if those so entitled
fail to do their duty or if, on other grounds, a danger of the children
being neglected arises

(4) Every mother shall have a claim to the protection and care of the
community

(5) Mlegitimate children shall, through legislation, be given the same
conditions for their physical and spiritual development and their position
in society as legitimate children.

Article 7

(1) The entire educational system shall be under the supervision of
the state

(2) Those entitled to bring up the child shall have the right to decide
whether it shall receive religious instruction.

(3) Religious instruction shall form part of the curriculum in the state
schools with the exception of non-confessional schools. Religious. instruc:
tion shall, without prejudice to the state's right of supervision, Be given
according to the principles of the religious societies No teacher may be
obliged against his will to give religious instruction.

() The right to establish private schools shall be guaranteed. Private
schools as substitute for state schools shall require the sanction of the
state and shall be subject to Land legislation. The sanction must be given
if the private schools, in their educational aims and facilities, as well as
in the scholarly training of their teaching personnel, are nol inferior 10
the state schools and if a separation of the pupils according to the means

the parents ie not encouraged. The sanction must be withheld il the
seonomic and legal status of the teaching personnel is not sufficiently

[51 A private clementary school shall be permitted only ifthe educa
ional administration recognizes a specific pedagogic interest or, at the
requeat of hone ened te bring up children, its to be etalnhed
a general c school Jas 1 oF
ideological school or if a state elementary schoo! of this type does no
exist ia the Gemeinde Y sehool of this type does not

(6) Preparatory schools shall remain abolished.

Article &

(1) All Germans shktl_have the right, without prior notification or
Permisnion, to assemble peacefully and harmed

(2) For open air meetings this right may be restricted by legislation
or on the basis ofa law “ a ET

JUNE 14, 1949

German words appearing in the

text are translated as follow:

(1) All Germans shall have the right to form associations and societies.
(2) Associations, the objects or activities of which conflict with the
iminal laws or which are directed against the canstilutional order or
cept of international understanding, shall be prohibited.

(3) The right to form associations to sateguard and improve working
and economic conditions shall be guaranteed to everyone and to all pro-
Tessions. Agreements which seek to restrict or hinder this right shall be
null and void: measures directed to this end shall be illegal.

Article 10

secrecy of the post and telecommuni-
ns may be ordered only on the basis,

Secrecy of the mail as well
cations shall be inviolable. Res!
of a law. B

Article 11

(1) All Germans shall enjoy freedom of movement throughout the
federal territory.

(2) This right may be restricted only by legislation and only for the
cases in which an adequate basis of existence 's absent and, as a result,
particular burdens would arise for the general public or in which it is
necessary for the protection of juveniles from neglect, (or combatting the
danger of epidemics or in order to prevent criminal acts

Article 12

Bundesrat. . . . . . . . federal council
Bundestag . . . . . . . «federal assembly
Chancellor |.) 2. |.) premier
Gemeinde (pl.Gemeinden) | community
—_ Gemeindeverbinde . . . . community government
46 Kreise (sing. Kreis) . . . . counties
C Land (pl. Laender). | |: state
Landtag.. . . .. . . . . State legislature
Praesidium |... . . . . presidency
Article 9 . Article 21

(1) The parties shall participate in forming the political will of the
people, “They ‘can be freely icrmed, Ther interna orgelzalion moat
conform to democratic principles. They must publicly account for the
sources of their funds. ymest pay

(2) Parties which, according to their aims and the behaviour of their
members, seek to impair or abolish the (ree and democratic basic. order
or to jeopardize the existence of the Federal Republic of Germany, shall
be unconstitutional. The Federal Constitutional Court’ shall decide on
the question of unconstitutionality.

(3) Details shall be regulated by’ federal legislation

Article 22
The federal flag shall be block-red-gold

Article 23

For the time being, this Basie Law shall apply in the territory of the
Laender Baden. Bavaria, Bremen, Greater Berlin, Hamburg, Hesse. Lower
Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia. Rhineland-Palatinate, "Schleswig-Hol-
steim Wuerttemberg-Baden and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern. It shall be
put into force for other parte of Germany on their accession.

Article 24

(1) All Germans shall have the right freely to choose their occupation,
place of work and place of training. The practice of an occupation may
be regulated by legislation,

{2} No one may be compelled to perform a particular kind of work
except within the framework of an established general compulsory public
service equally applicable to everybody. :

(3) Forced labour shall be admissible only in the event of imprison-
ment ordered by a court

Article 13

(1) The dwelling shall be inviolable.

(2) Searches may be ordered only by a judge or 1 the event of immi-
nent danger by other authorities provided by law and may be carried out
only in the form prescribed therein.

@) and may be aly
to avert a common danger or mortal danger to individuals and, oa the
basis of a law, also to prevent imminent danger to public saiely and
order, especially for the relief of the housing shortage, combatting the
danger of epidemics ar protecting juveniles exposed to dangers.

Article 4

(1) Property and the right of inheritance shall be guaranteed, The
contents and limitations shall be determined by legislation,

(2) Property shall involve obligations. [ts use shall simultaneously
serve the general welfare.

(3) Expropriation shall te admissible only for the wellbeing of the
general public. “It may be effected only by legislation or on the basis of
a law which shall regulate the nature and extent of compensation. The com-
pensation shall be determined after just consideration of the interests of
the general public and the participants, Regarding the extent of compens-
ation. appeal may be made to the ordinary courts in case of dispute

Article 15
Land and landed property, natural resources and means of product:
ion may, lor the purpose of socialization, be translerred to public owner-
ship or other forms of publicly controlled economy by way of a law
‘which shall regulate the nature and extent of compensation, For the com”
sation, Article 14, paragraph (3), sentences 3 and 4, ehall apply
appropriately.

Article 16
(1) No one may be deprived of his German citizenship. The loss of
citizenship may occur only on the basis of a law and, against the will of
the person concerned, only if the person concerned is not rendered state-
less thereby.
(2) No German may be extradited to a foreign country The politically
persecuted shall enjoy the right of asylum

Article 17

Everyone shall have the right, individually or jointly with others, to
address written requests or complaints to the competent authorities and
to the popular representative bodies.

Article 18

Whoever abuses the freedom of expression of opinion, in particular
the lnedom of the pres (Article 5, paragraph (1) the Treedam af teach:
ing (Article 5, paragraph (3)], the freedom of assembly (Article 8), the
freedom of association (Article 9), the secrecy of mail, post and tele-
communications (Article 19), property (Article 14), or the right of asylum
(Article 16, paragraph (2)), in order to atlack the ree, democratie basic
order, shall forfeit these basic rights. The forfeiture and its extent shall
be pronounced by the Federal Constitutional Court

Article 19

(1) Insofar as according to this Basic lew a basic right may be
restricted by legislation of on the basis of a law, the law must apply
in general and not solely to the individual case. Furthermore, the law
must name the basic right, indicating the Article.

(2) In no case may a basic right be affected in its basic content

(3) The basic rights shall also apply to juridical persons within the
country insofar as, according to their nature, they may be applied to siich
persone.

(4) Should any person's rights be infringed by public authority, he
may appeal to the courts. Insolar as another authority is not competent,
the’ appeal shall go to the ordinary courts

0
THE FEDERATION AND THE LAENDER

Article 20

(1) The Federal Republic of Germany is
federal state.

(2) All state authority emanates from the people. It shall be exerc-
ised by the people in elections and plebiscites and by means of separate
legislative, executive and judicial organs.

(3) Legislation shall be limited by the constitution, the executive and
the administration of justice by legislation and the law.

29

a democratic and social

U1) The Fi may, by legislat
international institutions.

(2) In order to preserve peace, the Federation may join a system of
mutual collective security: in doing so it will consent to those limitations
of its sovereign powers which will bring about and secure a peaceful and
lasting order in Europe and among the natione of the world.

(3) For the settlement of international disputes, the Federation will
join a general, comprehensive, obligatory system of international arbitr-
ation,

transfer sovereign powers to

Articte 25

The general rules of international law shall form part of federal law.
They shall take precedence over the laws and create rights and duties
directly for she inhabitants of the federal territory.

Article 26

(1) Activities tending to disturb or undertaken with the intention of
disturbing the peacelulgrelations between nations, and especially prepar-
ing for aggressive war. shall-be wnconstitutional. They shall be made
subject to punishment

(2) Weapons designed for warfare may be manufactured, transported
for marketed only with the permission of the Federal Government. Details
shall be regulated by a federal law.

Article 27
All German merchantmen shall form a unified merchant marine

Article 28
(1) The constitutional order in the Laender must conform to the princ=
iples of the republican democratic and social state based on the rule of
law (Rechtsstaat) within the meaning of this Basic Law. In the Laender,
Kreise and Gemeinden the people must have » representative assembi
resulting (rom universal. direct, tree, equal and secret elections. In Ge-
meinden, the Parish Meeting may take the place of an elected body.

(2) The Gemeinden must be guaranteed the right to regulate under
theit own responsibility all the affairs of the local community in accord
ance with the laws. The Gemeindeverbinde also shall have the right
of self-government within the limits of their legal sphere of functions and
in accordance with the laws

(3) The Federation shall guarantee that the constitutional order of
the Laender shall correspond to the basic rights and the provisions of
paragraphs (1) and (2)

Article 29

(1) The federal territory shall be reorganize: by 9 federal law with
due regard to regional unity, historical and cultural connections, economic
expediency and social structure. The reorganization shall create Laender
which by their size and potentiality are able to fulfil efficiently the funct~
ions incumbent upon them. i
(2) In areas which, in the reorganization of Laender after 8 May 1945,
ined another Land without plebiscite. a certain change in the decision
ide concerning this subject may be demanded by popular initiative
after the coming into force of the Basic Law. The popular
require the consent of one-lenth of the population qualil-
'=4 to vote in Landtag elections Should the popular initiative take place,
the Federal-Government must, in the draft law regarding the reorganiz-
ation, include a provision determining to which Land the area concerned
shall belong.

(3) After adoption of the law. in each area which st 1s intended should
oin another Land, that part of the law which concerns this area must be
submitted to a referendum. If a popular initiative takes place in accord-
nce with paragraph (2), » referendum must always be carried out i
the area concernes

(4) Insofar as therchw the law 1s rejected at least in one area, it must
be reintroduced in the Bundetog. Alter re-enactment, it shall requi
accordingly acceptance by referendum in the entire federal territory.

{5} In a referendum. the majority of the votes cast shall decide.

(6) The procedure shall be reculaied by a federal law. The reorganiz~
otion shall be regulated before the expiry of three years aller promulg-
ation of the Basic Law and, should it be necessary in consequence of
the accession of another part of Germany, within two years alter such

(1) The procedure regarding any other change in the existing territ
ory of the Laender shall be regulated by a: federal law, which shall
require the approval of the Bundesrat and of the majority of the members
of the Bundestag

Article 30

The exercise of the powers of the state and the performance of slate
functions shall be the concern of the Lander. insolar as asic Law
does not otherwise prescribe or permit

Article 31
Federal law shall supersede Lard law
Article 32

al the Federation. “ be the af

{2} Before the conclusion of a treaty affecting the special conditions

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
of a Land, the Land must be consulted sufficiently early.

(3) Insofar at the Laender are competent to legislate,
with the approval of the Federal Government, conclude tre
foreign states.

Article 33

(1) Every German shall have in each Land the same civil (s
bargertihe) igh ond dalis

{2} Every German shall have equal access to any public olfice in
accordance with his suitability. ability and: profesional achievements,

{3} Enioyment of muricipal and naonal civil (birgerliche und state
biirgerliche) rights, access 10 public ‘as well as the rights acquired

ats:

in the interval between two electoral periods. The Standing Committee
stall aio have the Highs of an inveniating comnite.

(2) Wider powers, 19 particular the right to logislate, to elect the
Federal Chancellor and te impesch the Federal Poeident, abl not be
within the province of the Standing Committee.

Article 46

(1) A deputy may at no time be subject to legal or disciplinary action
or otherwise to account outside the Bundestag because of
vote or any utterance in the Bundestag or in one of ils committees. This
shall not apply in the case of defamatory insults.

(2) A deputy may be called to account or arrested for a punishable
offence only with the permission of the Bundestag, unless he be appre:
hended while committing the offence or in the course of the following

normally be astigned as permanent functions to members of the pate
service who are in 9 status of service and loyalty under pi

(5) Law regarding the public service shall be regulated with due
regard (0 the establiched principles concerning the legal status of profess-
ional officials (Berulsbeamtentum)

Article 4

Jf any perso in exercising the duties of a pablic office entrusted to
im, violates bis oficial jon towards a third party, liability shall

rinciple reat with the state or his employing authority. In the case of
wilful iptent or gross negligence, the right of Tecouree shall be reserved
Tn respect to the claim for damages and in respect to the right of ree
course, appeal to the ordinary courls must not be excluded

Article 35
All federal and Land authorities shall render each other mutual
legal and official assistance.
Article 36
In the highest federal authorities civil servants (Beamte) from all
Laender shall be employed in equitable ratio. Persons employed im the
fr federal offices shall normally be selected from the Land in which
they are employed

Article 37
(1) If a Land fails to fulfil its obligations towards the Federation
jer the Basic Law or any other federal law, the Federal Government
may, with the approval of the Bundesrat, take the necessary measures to
force the Land by way ol federal compulsion to lll its duties
(2) In order to carry out federal compulsion, the Federal Government
commissioner shail have the right to five orders to all Laender and

ur
THE BUNDESTAG

Article 38

(1) The deputies of the German Bundestag shall be elected by the
people im universal, free, equal, direct and secret elections. They shall be
Fepresentatives of the whole people, not bound to orders and instruct
ions and subject only to their conscience.

(2) Any person who has reached the age of 21 years shall eligible
to vole and any person who has reached the age of 25 vears shall be
eligible for election.

{3} Details shall be determined by a federal fv

Article 39

(1) The Bundestag shall be elected for a term of four years. Its elect
oral period shall end four years after assembly or with its
dissolution. The new election shall take place in the las
the electoral: period; in the case of ile digolution, at the lates after
© days

1ed2h, The Bupdeaag shall meet not Inter than thirty dave afte the

, nevertheless, not before, the end of the electoral period of the
previs Bundestag.

(3) The tiie closure and resumption o! its
sexslona “The Protitat of the Bundestag may convene iat an eorlet
hall be obliged to do so if one-third of the members, the Federal
President or the Federal Chancellor so demand.

Article 40

(1) The Bundestag shall elect its President, his deputies and its clerks,
It shall draw up its Standing Orders (Rules of Procedure).

(2) The President shall have charge of, and exercise police power in
the Bundestag building. No search or seizure may take place without his
permission in the precincts oi the Bundestag

Article 41

(1) The review of elections shall be the responsi
tag, It shall decide also whether a deputy has lost
Bundestag.

(2) An appeal to the Federal Constitutional Court against @ decision
of the Bundestag shall be admissible.

(G) Details shall be regulated by a federal law

Article 42

(1) Mectings uf the Bundestag shall be public. Upon a motion of one
tenth of itr aieubers of upon. a'motion of the Federal Government the
public may, by a two-thirds majority, be excluded A decision on the
motion will be made in a closed meeting

(2) Decisions of the Bundestag shall require the majority of votes
cast insofar as the Basic Law does not determine otherwise. Standing
Orders (Rules of Procedure) may admit exceptions in the case of elect
ions to be held by the Bundestag.

(3) Accurate reports of the public meetings of the Bundest
ts committees shall be privileged

Article 43

(1) The Bundestag and its committee may demand the presence of
any member of the Federal Government,

(2) The members of the Bundesrat and of the Federal Government
as well as the persons commissioned by them shall have access to all
mectings of the Bundestag and its committees, They must be beard at
any time.

Ly of the Bundes
membership in the

and of

Article #4

(1) The Bundestag shall have the sight and, upon the motion of one-
fourth of its members,

(3) F. the permission ol the Bundestag shall be required
1m respect of any other restriction of the personal freedom of a deputy
co for the initiating of proceedings against a deputy in accordance with
Article 18,

(4) Any criminal proceedings and any proveedings in accordance with
Article 18 against a deputy, any detention and any other restriction of
his “personal Irgedom ‘shall be suspended upon the demand of the

Bundestag.

Article 47

Deputies shall be entitled to refuse to give evidence concerning pers:
cons who have entrusted facts to them in their capacity as deputies or to
whom they in this capacily have eutrusted facts. as well as concerning
these facts themselves, Insofar as this right of refusal to give evidence
extends, the seizure of documents shall be inadmissible

Arucle 48

(1) Any person seeking election to the Bundestag, shall have # claim
to the leave necessary for his election campaign,

(2), No one may be prevented from assuming or exercising the office
of a deputy. Notice of dismissal or dismissal for this reason shall be
inadmissible

(3) Deputies shall have » claim to adequate remuneration, which
hall ensure their independence They shall have the right to free travel
in all publicly owned transport Details shall be regulated by = federal

Article 49

Articles 46, 47 and 48, paragraphs (2) and (3) shall apply to the
members of the Praesidium and the Standing Committee as well as to
their chief deputies also in the interval between two electoral periods

Vv
THE BUNDESRAT
Article 50

‘The Laender shall participate through the medium of the Bundesrat
sn the legislation and the administration of the Federation.

Article 51

(1) The Bundesrat shall consist of -members of the Governments of
the Laender which shall appoint and recall them. They may be represent:
ed by other members of their Governments,

(2) Each Land shall have at leash three votes: Laender with more than
two. million inhabitants shall have four, Laender with more than six
million inhabitants shall have five votes

(3) Every Land may delegate as many members ax it has votes, The
votes of each Land may be given only as & block vote and only by memb-
cre present or Ueir representatives,

Article 52

(1) The Bundesrat shall elect its President for one year

(2) The President shall convene the Bundesrat. He must convene
it the representatives of at least two Laender or the Federal Govern:
‘ment #0 demand.

(3) The Bundesrat shall take its decisions wih at least the majority
of its votes. It shall draw up its Standing Orders (Rules of Procedure}
Ut shall meet in public. The public may be excluded.

(4) Other members or representatives of the Governments of the
Laender tay belong to the committees of the Bundesrat.

Article 53 .

The members of the Federal Government shall have the right, and on
demand the obligation, to participate in the debates of the Bundesrat
sad its committees. They must be heard at any time, The Bundesrat must

be kept currently informed by the Federal Government on the conduct
of tedeea ste

v
THE FEDERAL PRESIDENT

Article 54
(1) The Federal President shall be elected, without by the

Article 57

Jo the event of the inability of the Federal President to perform the
duties of his office or in the event of a premature vacancy in the off
the functions of the Federal President shall be exercised by the Presi
‘eat of the Bundesrat

Article 58

Orders and instructions of the Federal President shall require for their
validity the counter-signature of the Federal Chancellor or the compet:
ent Federal Minister. This shall not apply to the appointment and di
missal of the Federal Chancellor. the dissolution of the Bundestag
accordance with Article 63 and a request in accordance with Article 69,
paragraph (3)

Article $9

(1) The Federal President shaid represent the Federation sn matters
concerning international law. He shall conclude treaties with. foreign
states on behalf of the Federation. He shall accredit and receive the
envoys.

(2) Treaties which regulate the political relations of the Federation
or refer to matters of federal legislation shall require, in the form of 3
federal law, the approval or the participation of the corporations comp:
elent at the time for federal legislation. For administrative agreements
the rovsions concerning the federal administration shall apply spprop-
rately.

Article 60
1) The, Federal President shall appoint and dismiss the federal judges
and the foderl ollicics unless otherwise determined by Ta wwe
{2) He shall exetcise the right of pardon on behalf of the Federation
(3) He may delegate these powers to other authorities
(4) Article 46, paragraphs (2) to (4). shall apply appropriately to the
Federal President
Article 61 ’
(1) The Bundestag or, the Bundesrat may impeach the Federal Presid-
ent before the Federal Constitutional Court on account of-wilful violat-
ion of the Basic Law or any other federal law. The motion for ionpeach-
spent must be brought in by at Teast onequarler of the members of the
quarter of the votes of th The decision to
impeach shall require the majority of two-thirds of the members of the
Bundestag or of two-thirds of the votes of the Bundesrat. The prosecution
shall be ‘by a person by the ‘body.
(2) If the Federal Constitutional Court finds that the Federal Presi
ent is guilly of a wilful violation of the Basic Law or of any other fed
al law, it may declare him to have forfeited his office. Alter the instit-
ution. of the Federal C Court
may, by interim order, determine that the Federal President is prevented
from performing the duties of his office

VI
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Article 62

The Federal Government shall consist of the Federal Chancellor and
the Federal Ministers.

Article 63

(1) The Federal Chancellor shall be elected, without discussion, by
the Bundestag on the proposal of the Federal President.

(2) The person who has received the votes of the majority of the
members of the Bundestag shall be elected. He shall be appointed by the
Federal President.

(3) If the person nominated is not elected, the Bundestag ma
fourteen days after the ballot, elect a Federal Chancellor by mor
one half of its members.

(4) If the Federal Chancellor is not electod within this time limit a new
ballot shall take place immediately, in which the person who receives
most votes shall be elected. If the person elected receives the voles of
the majority of the members of the Bundestag the Federal President
must with 7. days alter the election, appoint him. It the person elected
dove oot obtain this malorly the Federal President must, within seven
days. either appoint him» or dissolve the Bundesta

Article 64

(1) The Federal Mimssters shall be appointed and dismissed by the
Federal President upon the proposal of the Federal Chancellor

(2) The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Ministers, on assuming
office, shall take before the Bundestag the oath provided in Article 56,

Article 65

The Federst Chancellor shall determine and assume ‘responsibility
for general noliey. Witkin the limits of Uris general policy, each Federal
Minister shall direct his department individually and on his own respons:
ibility. The Federal Government shall decide on differences of opinion
between the Federal Ministers. The Federal, Chancellor shall conduct
ite business in secordance with Standing Orders. (Rules of Procedure]
adopted by the Federal Government and approved by the Federat Pres-
‘dent

Article 66

The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Ministers may not hold any
other salaried office, carry on a trade or pra or belong
to the mansgement or, without the aporoval of the Bundestag, to the

Federal Convention. Every German who is eligible to vole in clectons
for the Bundesiag and has reached the age of 40 years shall be eligible
or election.

(2} The term of office of the Federal President shall be five years
Immediate re-election shall be admissible only once

(3) The Federal Convention shall consist of the members of the Bund-
sstag and an equal number of members elected by the popular repres:
eptative bodies of the Laender according to the principles of propartion-
al representation.

(4) The Federal Convention shall meet not later than thirty days be-
fore the expiry of the term of office of the Federal President, in the case
of premature termination not later than thirty days after this date. I

be convened by the President of the Bundestag.

“sy Alter the expiry of the electoral period, the time limit of para-
graph (4), sentence 1, shall begin with the first meeting of the Bundestag.

(6) The person who has received the votes of the majority of the
members of the Federal Convention shall be elected. If such majority is
not obtained by any candidate in two ballots, the person who receives
most voles in a further ballot shall be elected.

(7) Details shall be regulated by a federal law.

Article 55
(1) The Federal President may be a member neither of the Govern-
ment nor of a legislative body of the F or a Land.

op an im
which shall take, the aessary tvidence in public proceedings: The public
may be exclu

(2) The provisions relating to criminal procedure shall apply approp-
riately tote i Taveatigations Secrecy of the mal, post and (slecommuni-
Mions shall remain unaffected.

(3) The courts and administrative authorities shall be obliged to pro:
vide legal and official assistance.

(4) The decisions of the investigating committees shall not be subject
to judicial review. The courts shall be free (o evaluate and judge the
facts on which the investigation ia based.

Article 4

1) The Bundestag shall sopciot Standing Commities which shall
M Sr nde A-vie the Federal Gi

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(2) The Federal President may not hold any other salaried office,
carry on s trade of practise a profesion or belong to the management or
supervisory board of a profit-making enterprise.

Article 56
On assuming office, the Federal President shall take the following
gat in the presence of the assembled members of the Bundestag and the

swear that I shall dedicate my strength to the wellbeing of the

German people, enhance what is to ils advantage, ward off whal
‘Bight harm it, uphold and, defend the Basic Law and the laws of
the Federation, fulfil my duties conscientiously and do justice to
every maz, So help me

‘The oath may also be taken without the religious atseveration

30

p ‘board of a profi Pr
Article 67

{1} The Bundestag may express its lack of confidence in the Federal
Chancellor only by electing a successor with the majority of its memb-
ers and submitting a reauest to the Federal President for the dismissal
of the Federal Chancellor. The Federal President must comply with the
request and appoint the person elected.
sei, There must be an interval of 48 houts between the motion and the
election

Article 68

(1), Ifa motion of the Federal Chancellor to receive a vote of confid-
ence does not obtain the support of the majority of the members of the
Rundestag. the Federa President may. upon the pronosal of the Federal
Chancellor, dissolve the Bundestag within 21 davs, The right of dissolut-
ion shall lapse as sron as the Burdestag, with the majority of its memb-
ers, elects another Federal Chancellor.

(2) There must be an interval of 48 hours between the introduction of.
and the vote on, the motion

Article 69

(1) The Federal Chancellor shall appoint a Federal Minister as his
deputy.

(2) The office of the Federal Chancellor or of a Federal Minister shall
end in anv case with the assembly of a new Bundestag, the office of &
Federal Minister also with any other termination of the office of the
Federal Chancellor.

13] At the reauest of the Federal President the Federal Chancellor.
at the recvest of the Federal Chancellor or of the Federal President
Federal Minister, obliged te carry out the duties of his office
until the appointment of his successor

vit
THE LEGISLATION OF THE FEDERATION

Article 70

(1) The Laender shall have the right of legislation insofar as this
Basic Law does mot accord legislative powers to the Federation,

JUNE 14, i949

--- Page 34 ---
Article 74
In the field of exclusive legislation of the Federation, the Laender
Article 2
1) In the field of concurrent legislation, the Laender shall have pow:
o isative neh
2) The Federation shall have legislative right in this field insofar as
4 a2hasty for regulation by federal law osiste because
1a matter cannot be effectively regulated by the legislation of
2 the regulation of a matter by a Land law could prejudice the
Eilending Seyond the errory ofan individual Load
Article 7
6 federal railways and air trae
& the legal status of persons in the employment of the Federation
Federal’ Government"
a.tvade marks, copyrigh and publishing rights
Bion: the establishment ofa Federal Dilice of Criminal Petice
as'ell asthe combatting of Interoational some
11.stalnie for federal purposes
Article 74

Concurrent legislation shall extend to the following fields

1. civil law, criminal law and execution of sentences, constitution

of courts, court procedure, the bar, notaries and legal advice
(Rechtsberatung):

2 census, and registry matters;

3 associations and assemblies,

4 the right of sojourn and settlement of aliens.

5 the protection of German works of art against removal abroad.

‘b matters relating to refugees and expellees:

1 public welfare;

8 citizenship of the Laender:

9 war damayes and compensation (Wiedergutmachung/:

10 provisions fcr war-disabled persons and surviving dependants,
the welfare of former prisoners of war and the care of war
raves

11 Taw relating to the economy {mining, industry, power suoply.
crafts, trades, commerce, banking and stock exchanges, private

12 labour law, including the legal organization of enterprises,
protection of workers and provision of employment, as well as
social insurance including unemployment insurance,

13 the furtherance of scientific research:

14 the law regarding expropriation insofar as it is concerned with
the matters enumerated in: Articles 73 and 74:

15 transfer of land and Janded property, natural resources and
means of production to public ownership or to other forms of
publicly controlled economy:

16. prevention of the abuse of economic power:

17 promotion of agricultural and forestry production, safeguarding
of food supply. import and exnort of agricultural and forestry
products, deep-sea and coastal fisheries and coastal preservation:

18 transactions in landed property, law concerning land and
agricultural lease. housing. settlements and homesteads:

19 measures against epidemic and infectious diseases affecting
humans and animals, the licensing for medical and other healing
professions and the. healing trade and traffic in drugs, medic:
ines, narcotics and poisons,

20 protection relating to traffic in food and stimulants as well as
sn necessities of life. in fodder. in agricultural and forestry
seeds and seedlings, and protection of trees and plants agains!
diseases and pests °

21 ocean and coastal shipping and aids to navigation, inland
shipping, meteorological service, ocean chanrels and inland
waterways used for general traffic.

22 road traffic, motor transport and the construction and maint
enance of highways used for long-distance transport:

23. railways other than federal railways, except mountain railways

Article 75
The Federation shail have the right on the basis of Article 72 to
sssue general provisions concerning
4.the iezat status of persons employed in the public service of
the Laender, Gemeinden and other public law corporations
2.the general legal status of the press and motion pictures.
3.hunting, protection of nature and care of the countryside.
4 land distribution, regional planning and water conservation
5 matters relating to registration and identity cards

{3} Bundesrat bills shall be submitted to the Bundestag by the Fed

Article 77

UU} Federal laws shall be passed by the Bundestag. Alter thes adopt
jin. they shall, without delay. be submittgd to the Bundesrat by. the
resident of the Bundestag. 7” “Wmlted 10 the Bundesrat by th

(2) The Bundesrat may, within two weeks of the receipt of the ado
4 Bill, demand that a committee composed of members of the Bundestaa
it Ranaal be sonvened to conser the Sl jointly. The com
{ion and the procedure of this committee shall be regulated by. Stanfiog
Orders (Rules of Procedure), which shall be agreed by the Bundestag
and shall require the approval of the Bundesrat. The members of the
Rundesrat deputed to this committee shall not be bound by instructions
1 the approval of the Bundesrat is required Tor a law. both the Bundestag

1 Federal Government may demand that.jt be convened. Should

he,cammitlee. pronase an alteration of the adopted bill, the Bundestag

JUNE 14, 1949

(3) Insolar as the approval of the Bundesrat 1s not required for a law
the Bundesrat may, if the procedure in accordance with paragraph-(2)_ is
comoleted, within one week veto a law passed by the Bundestag The
time limit for a veto shall begin in the case of oaradraph (21, last sentence,
with the receipt of the bill as re-adopted by the Bundestag, in all other
cases with the of the procedure the pro
vided for in paragraph (2)

(4) Should the veto be adopted by the majority of the votes of the
Bun lesrat, i may he reiected by a decision of the majority of the mem
hers of the Bundestag. Should the Bundesrat have adopted the veto by
3 majority of at least two-thirds of its votes, the rejection by the Bund
estag shall require a maiority of two-thirds. or at least the majority
of the members of the Bundestag

Article 78

A law passed by the Bundestag shall be enacted if the Bundesrat
approves, does not bring “in a motion in accordance with Article 77
paragraph (21. does not impose a veto within the time limit of Article 77,
paragraoh (3), withdraws ite veto or if the velo is overridden by the
Bundestag

Article 79

(1) The Basic Law may be amended only by a law which expressly.
alters or adds to the text of the Basic Law:

(2) Such a law shall require the approval of two-thiris of the mem:
bers of the Bundestag and (wo-thirds of the votes of the Bundesrat

(3) An amendment to this Basic Law by which the organization of the
Federation into Laender, the basic co-operation of the Laender in legis:
lation or the basic principles laid down in Articles 1 and 20 are affected
shall be inadmissible

Article 80

(1) By means of a law the Federal Government, a Federal Minister
or the Land Governments may be authorized to, issue orders (Rechisver:
ordnungen}. The contents, purpose and scope of such authorization shall
be determined in the law | The legal basis must be cited in the order
If a law provides that an authorization may be further transferred, then
the transfer of the authorization shall require an order (Rechtsverord
nung).

(2) The approval of the Bundesrat shall be required, unless other-
wise regulated by federal legislation, for orders (Rechtsverordnungen) of
the Federal Government or a Federal Minister concerning principles and
fees for the use of the facilities of the Federal railways and post and
telecommunications, concerning the construction and operation of rai
ways, as well as those issued on the basis of federal laws which require
the approval of the Bundesrat or which are executed by the Laender on
behalf of the Federation or as their own concern

Article 81

(1) Should, in the case of Article 68, the Bundestag not be dissolved.
the Federal President may, on the request of the Federal Government!
with the approval of the Burdesrat, declare a state of legislative emer
ency for a bill, if the Bundestag reiects it despite the fact that the
Federal Government has declared it to be urdent. The same shall apoly
if’ bill has been rejected despite the fact that the Federal Chancellor
had combined with it the motion described in Article 68

(2) If the Bundestag, after the state of legislative emergency has been
declared, again rejects the bill or passes il in a version stated by the
Federal Government to he unacceptable. the bill shall he deemed adapted
insofar as the Bundesrat approves it. The same shall apply if the
bill has not been passed by the Bundestag within four weeks after its
re-submission

(3) During the term of office of a Federal Chancellor, any other bill

rejected by the Bundestag may be passed within a period of six monthe
after the initial declaration of a state of legislative emergency in accord
ance with paragraphs (1) and (2). After expiry of the period. a further

declaration of a state of legislative emergency shall be inadmissible during
the term of office of the same Federal Chancellor

(4) The Basic Law may neither be amended nor wholly or partially
repealed or suspended by a law enacted in accordance with paragraph (2)

Article 82°

(1) Laws enacted according to the provisions of this Basic Law shall
he engrossed by the Federal President with countersignature and publish:
ed in the Federal Legal Gazette Orders (Recltsverordnungen) shall be
signe’ by the iseuing authority and. unless ctherwise regulated by law
published in the Federal Legal Gazette

(2) Each law and each order (Rechtsverordnung) shall specify the
date of its coming into force. In the absence of such a provision, they
shall come into force on the fourteenth day after the end of the day on
which the Federal Legal Gazelte bas been issued

vin
THE EXECUTION OF FEDERAL LAWS
AND THE FEDERAL ADMINISTRATION

Article 83

The Laender shall execute the federal laws as their own concern in
sofar as this Basic Law does not otherwise determine or permit

Article 84

(1) If the Laender execute the federal laws as their own concern they
shall regulate the establishment of the authorities and the administrative
procedure incofat as federal laws approved by the Bundesrat do not
otherwise determine

(2) The Federal Government may, with the approval of the Bundes:
rat, issue general administrative provisions

13) The Federal Government shall exercise supervision to ensure that
the Laender execute the federal laws in accordance with valid law. For
this purpose the Federal Government may send commissioners to the
highest Land authorities and, with their approval and, in the case of
this approval being refused with the approval of the Bundesrat, also to
the subordinate authorities

(4) Should defiesencies established by the Federal Government in the
execution of federal laws in the Laender aot be overcome then, vn anplic
ation by the Federal Government ot the Land concerned. the Bundesrat
shall decide whether the Land has infringed law | Against the decision
af the Bundesrat, appeal may be made ‘to the Federal Constitution!

ourt.

(5) For the execution of federal laws the Federal Government may, by
federal legislation which shall require the approval of the Bundesrat. be
franted in special eases the power to give individual instructions. Thev
shall, except where the Federal Government considers the case urgent

be rected to the highest Land authorities

Article 85

(1) Where the execution of federal laws is deledated to the Laender
by the Federation, the establishment of the authorities shall remain a
concern of the Laender insofar as Federal legislation approved by the
Bundesrat does not determine otherwise 5

(2) The Federal Government may sssue, with the approval of the Bund
esrat, general_administrative provitions. [t may wegulate the uniform
training of officials and employees. The heads of the authorities at middle
level shall be appointed with its agreement

(3) The Land authorities shall be ‘subject to the instructions of the
highest competent federal authorities. Except where the Federal Govern-

31

iment consider it urgent the instructions shall be directed to the highest

End uthories, Execuilon of the instructons shall be ensat

highest Land authority. . SS
(4) Federal supervision shall extend to the leality and suitability of

the manner of sxvcution” The Federal Government aye fon tha bu

Article 86

I the Federation executes the laws by direct federal administration
or by public law corporations or institutions directly supervieed. boy the
Federation, the Federal Government shall, insofar as the law dose. tot
prescribe details, issue dencral administrative provisions, It shall segate
Me, insofar as it is nol otherwise determine’ by the law. the establigh:
iment of the authorities

Aricle 87

(1) The foreign service, the federal finance administration, the federal
ways. the federal postal. services and,_in accordance with ths pro
visions of Article 89, the administration of the federal waterways ued
shipping, shall be conducted by a direct fedcral sdministration wth ite
own lower level administrative offices. Federal (rontier protecticn author,
ities and central offices for police information and. communrsations, for
the compilation of data for ‘purooses concerning the nrotection of, the
constitution and for the criminal police maybe established by. federal
legislation

{2) Public law corporations directly supervised by the. Federation
shall be those carriers of social insurance whose sphere of competence
extends beyond the territory of a Land

(3) In addition, independent central federal authorities and_ new
public law corporations and institutions directly supervised by the Feder
ion may be established by federal legislation for matters cm which
Federation has the power to legislate. Should the Federation acqu
functions in matters for which it has ecislative ‘competence. federal
authorities "atmiddle and. lower levels may-in case of urgent’ need be
established with the approval” of the Bundesrat and. of the maferity
of the Bundestag

Article 88

The Federation shall establish a bank of currency and rssue as
federal bank

Article 89
(1) The Federation shall be the owner of the former Reich water

(2) The Federation shall administer the federal waterways. through
its own authorities. It shall exercise those state functions relating. to
inland shipping extending beyond the territory of a Land and the func
ions of ocean-going shipping which are conferred cn it by ledislation. The
Federation may delegate the administration of federal waterways, insofar
as they lie within the territory of a Land, to this Land, upon request, to
act on its behalf (Auftragsverwaltung). ‘Should a waterway touch the
territories of several Laenter, the Federation may delegate (the admin's.
tration) to the Land agreed upon by the Laender concerned,

Article 90

(1) The Federation shall be the owner of the former Reich Auto:
bahnen and Reich highways. Ast

(2) The Lacnder, or such self-governing corporations under public law
sg as competent in aecordance with Land Tw cll donne the ede
on behalf of the Federation. “ * "

(3) At the request of a Land, the Federation may take over into direct
federal adminatration fedwal/Autotobnen and" other federal highways
eae ie: sy thin the territory of

Article 91

(1) In order to avert an imminent danger to the existence or the free
democratic basic order of the Federation or a Land, a Land may call ia
the police forces of other Laender

(2) Ifthe Land in which the danger is imminent is not itself prepar.
or in a position to combat the danger, the Federal Government may place
the police in that Land or the police forces of other ‘Laemder under ite
instructions. The order (Anordnung) shall be rescinded after the danger
has been overcome, otherwise at any time on demand from the Buedes,

ix
THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE

Article 92

Judicial authority shall be invested in the judges; it shall be exerc-
tsed by the Federal Constitutional Court, by the Suprenie Federal Court,
by the federal courts provided for in this Basic Law and by the courts
of the Laender.
Article 93
(1) The Federal Constitutional Court shall decide:

Jon the interpretation of this Basic Law in the event of disputes
concerning the extent of the rights and duties of the highest
federal organ or of other participants accorded independent
rights by this Basic Law or in the Standing Orders (Rules of
Procedure} of the highest federal organ:

2.1m cases of differences of opinion or doubts: on the forma! and
material compatibility of federal law or Land law with this

Basic Law, on the compatibility of Land law with some othet
federal law. on the application of the Federal Government, of =
Land Government or of one-third of the members of the Bundes-
tag

An cases of differences of opinion on the rights and duties of the
Federation and the Laender. particularly in the execution of
federal law by the Leenuer. and in the exercise of federal
‘on other public law disputes between the Federation and the
appeal to another court is not provided for:

5.1m all other eases provided for in this Basic Law

(2) Furthermore, the Federal Constitutional Court shall act in
otherwise assigned to it by federal legislation,

Article 94
(1) The Federal Constitutional Court shall consist of federal judges
and other members. “the members of the Federal Constitutional ‘Court
iuall be vlected hall by the Bundestag and half by the Bundesrat, They
iay not belong te the Bundestag, the Bundesrat, the rederal Government
or corresponding bodies of a Land.
(2) A tederal law shall regulate its legal constitution and procedure
and determine in which cases its decisions shall have the force of law

: Article 95

U} To preserve the unity of federal law, a Supreme Federal Court
shall be established.

(2) The Supreme Federal Court shall decide in cases where the decis-
ion is of lundamental importance for the uniformity of the administeat-
jon,of justice of the higher federal courts

(3) The appointment of the. judges of the Supreme Federal Court
shali be decided jointly by the Federal Minister of Justice and a comm
ittee for the election of judges consisting of the Land Ministers of
Justice and an equal number of members elected by the Bundestag

(4) Otherwise the constitution of the Supreme Federal Court and its
procedure shall be regulated by federal Ipgislation

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 35 ---
Article 96

(1) Higher federal courts shall be established forthe spheres of ordin-
ary, administrative, finance, labour and social jurisdiction.

(2) Article 95, paragraph (3), shall apply tothe judges of the higher
federal courts with the proviso that the place of the Federal Mini
Ststice and the Land Ministers of Justice ‘be taken “by the Mines

for the p: matter. Their of service must be-
Tegulated by a special federal law.

(3) The Federation may establish federal disciplinary courts for dis-

ciplinary proceedings against federal officials and federal judges

Article 97

(1) Judges shall be independent and subject only to the law.

(2) Judges who’ are principally, regularly and definitely employed as
such may, against thé will, be dismissed before the expiry of their term
of office or permanently of temporarily suspended irom office ov ttaus.
erred to another office or be placed on the retired list only through the
dicision of a court and only on the grounds and in the forms prescribed
by legislation. Legislation may set an age limit at which judges who have
been appointed “lor life shall retire. In the case of alterations in the
structure of the courls or their districts, judges may be transferred to
‘another court or suspended from office They must, however, retain their
full salary.

Article 98
(1) The legal ctatus of the federal judges must be regulated by
special federal law.
. (2) If a federal judge, in his official or unofficial capacity, intr
ihe principles of the Basic Law or the constitutional order of Land. the
Federal C Court may on the application of the
with 9 tworthirde majority, order that the judge be transferred to another
office or placed on the retired list. In the case of willu) infringement dis-
‘missal may also be decided upon
(3) The legal status of the judges m the Laender must be regulated
by special Land ‘legislation The Federation may issue general prove
(4) The Laender may determine that the Land Minister of Justice
shall, together with a committee for the election of judges, decide om the
appointment of judges in the Laender.
(5) The Laender may make an appropriate refulation for Land judges

Article 106

{1} Customs, the yield of monopolies, the
tion of the beer tax, the transportation tnx, the turnover tax
sts ereing ourrecurcen! perpenee shall seers tothe Federal

(2) The beer tax, the taxes on transactions with the exception of
{he transportation (as and turnover lax the income and corporation
the property tax. the inheritance tax. the "Realsteuers" and the tax
wit "localized application shall acerue to the Laender and, in accordance
with Land legislation, to the Gemeinden. (Gemeindeverbinde).

{31 The Federation may, by means of a federal law which shall re-
quire the approval of the Bundesrat, make a claim to « part of the
come and corporation taxes 10 cove) its expenditures. not covered by
other revenues, in particular to cover grants which are to be made to
Lacnder to meet expenditures sn the fields of education. public health and

{4) In order to ensure the working efficiency also ol the Laender with
low revenues and to equalize the diflering burden of expenditure of the
Laender. the Federation may make grants and take the unds necess
for this purpose from specifi taxes of those accruing to the Laender. A
federal law, which shall require the approval of the Bundesrat, shall de

srmine which taxes shall be_ulilized lor this purpose and in what
amounts and op what basis the grants shall be distributed among the
Usendey entitled to equalization: the grants must be handed directly to
the Lacoder

ne taxes with the excep
operty

Article 107

Article 115

By way of credits, funds may be obtained only in the casé of extra-
ordinary need and as a role anly for expenditure for produelive purposes
‘and only on the basis of a federal law. The granting of credits and-pro?
vision of securities as a charge on the Federation, the effect of which ex-
tends beyond the Vocal years may be undertaken only om the baat of 2,
federal lav, The amount of the credila or the extent of the obliga
for which the Federation assumes liability must be determined in the law.

I
TRANSITIONAL AND
CONCLUDING PROVISIONS

Article 116

(1) Unless otherwise regulated by law, a German within the meaning
of this Basie Law is a person who possesses German nationality or who
has been accepted in the territory of the German Reich as at 31 Decem-
ber 1937 as a refugee or expellee of German stock or as the spouse of
descendant of such person
(2) Former German nationals who between 30 January 1933 and
8 May 1945 were deprived of theie nationality for political, racial or
religious reasons, and their descendants, shall be regranted cilizenship on
They shall not be insofar

The final ¢ taxes subject to

be
tween the Federation und the Lacoder sual be elected aot Teter then
December 1532 andy means a federal Taw whieh the
approval ol the Bundearats Ths tg the

he axes wit Toclized application, tn thin both Federation and La
shall be given » legal claim to certain taxes or sharen sn taxes correspond:
{ng to their fonctions

Article 108

(1) Customs financial eaonopolies, the excise taxes subject to concurr-
ent legislation. the transportation tax, the turnover tax, and the non-
recurrent property dues shall be administered by federal Finance author,
ities The stricture of these authorities and the lure to be applied
by the shal be regulated by federal legislation «Fhe heads ofthe eaguor

tm accordance with paragraph (2), Valid Lang law hall
remain unaliccted. Foe Federal Conatitutionsl Court shall decide sm the
case of impeachment of a judge,

Article 99

By Land legislation the decision on constitutional disputes within a
Land may be assigned to the Federal Constitutional Court, and the dec
ion of final instance on matters involving the application of Land law
to the higher federal courts.

Article 100

{1) If a court considers unconstitutional a law the validity of which
is pertinent to its decision, proceedings must be’ stayed and, if a violat-
‘2 Land Constitution is involved, the decision of the Land court
Competent for constitutional disputes shall be oblained and, if violation
of this Basic Law is involved, the decision of the Federal Constitutional
Court shall be obtained. This shall also apply if the violation of this
asic Law by Land law or the dncompatabilty of « Land law with a
federal ‘law is involved.

(2) If in litigation it is doubtful whether a rule of international 1
forms part of federal law and whether it creates direct rights and duti
for the individual (Article 25), the court shall obtain the decition of the
Federal Constitutional Court

(3) If the court of a Land, in interpreting the Basic Law, intends to
deviate from a decision of the Federal Constitutional Court or the co
stitutional-court of another Land, the said constitutional court must obtain
the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court. Ui, in interpreting other
federal law, it intends to deviate from the decision of the Supreme Fed
eral Court or a highe: federal court, i! must obtain the decision of the
Supreme Federal Court

Article 101

{1) Extraordinary courts shall be inadmissible. No one may be prevent
td from appearing before his lawful judge.

(2) Courts for special matters may be established only by law

Article 102
The death sentence shall be abolished
Article 103
healt) Evervone brought before a court shall have a claim to proper legal
(2) ‘Ap act may be punished only uit was punishable by law before
the act was committ

(3) No one ny be poniahed more than once on account of the same
act in pursuance of the eneral criminal laws

Article 104

(1) The freedom of the individual may be restricted only on the basis
of a formal law and only with due regard to the forms prescribed therein
Detained persons may be subjected neither to physical nor mental ill-
treatment

(2) Only the jude shall decide on the admpsibility, and continued

duration of a deprivation of liberty If such deprivation is not based on

the order of a indie, « court decinion mast be obtained without delay

‘The police may. on its own authority, hold no one in custody beyond 1]

rd of the day following the arrest Details shall be rogulated by legis
tion.

(3) Any person temporarily detained un suspicion of having commitied
punishable act must, at the [ates! op the day following the arrest, be

Ought before a judge who shall inform bim of the reasons for the arres
interrogate him and give him an opportunity to caise objections. Without
delay, the judge must either issue » warrant of arrest. setting out the
reasons therefor, or order his releas

(4) A colateve of the person detaimed or a perton enjoying bis confid:
nce mast be notified forthwith of any judicial decision in reepect of the
ordering or the continued duration of a deprivation of liberty

x
FINANCE

Article 105

Li) The Federation shall have exclusive legislation on customs and
financial monopolies.

(2) The Federation shall have concurrent legislation on:

Lexeise taxes and taxes on transactions, with the oxeeption of
taxes with localized application, in particular the taxes on real
estate value

2 the taxes on income, property, inheritance and

les at_middle level shall be appointed by agreement with the Land

The Fe may delegate the ‘of the
recurrent properly dues to the Land finance authorities to act on behalf
of the Federation’ Auffragsverwaltang)

(2) Insolar as the Federation makes a claim to a part of the income
and corporation taxes it shall have the right to adminiater them {t ray
however, delegate the administration to the Land finance authorities t0
act on behalf ofthe Federation

{3 The remaining axes shall be adminatered by Land finance author
ities. The Federation may, by means of (ederal legislation which shall
reauire the ipproval of the Bandesra,ceguate the seacusyaftheze at

the procedure to be applied by them and’ the uniform trainin
Of the officials The heads of the authories at middle level qust be app
ointed ‘by agreement with the Federal Government. The administration
Of the taxes accruing to the Gemeinden (Gemeindeverbande) may be

transferred by the Laerider in entirety or in part to the Gemeinden (Ge
meindeverbindel.

with their revenues for a regular administration of these taxes: the Feder-
al Minister

inance may supervise the regular administration through
otentiaries who shall have the right to give instructions to
the authorities at middle and lower level

ction shal} be uniformly regulated by federal legis

(6), The general administrative provisions shall be sssud by the Fed:
fal Government and. insofar as the administration is incumbent upon
the Land finance authorities, with the approval of the Bundesrat.

Article 109

The Federation and the Laegder shall be sell-supporting and independ-
env ol enh other ib thet Sadat sconany, 1 SuPPemne and inden

Articlé 110

{1) All revenues and expenditures of the Federation must be estimat-
ed for each fiscal year and included in the budgel,

{2) The budget shall be established by law beiére the commencement
of the fiscal year. Revenue and expenditure must be balanced Expend-
itures shall asa’ rule be approved for one year, they may in special
cases be approved for a longer period Otherwise the federal budget law
‘may contain no provisions which extend beyond the fiscal yeat of which
do not concern the revenues and expenditures of the Federation or its
administration,

{3) The assets and liabilities shall be indicated in an appendix to the

(4) In the case of federal commercial enterprises, only the final result,
Felied the detailed revenues and expenditures. need be included in the

Anticle 111

(1) It by the end of a fiscal year the budget for the following year
not been established by law, the Federal Government shall. until such
2 law comes into force, be empowered (0 effect such payments as are
Recessary:
{a} 10 maintain legally established institutions and to carry out
Totally determined’ measures °
(b) to meet legally established obligations of the Federation,
{c} to continue byilding projects; procurements and other services
‘oF to grant further subsidies for these purposes insofar as
funds Have already been approved by the budget o = previous
year.

(2) Insofar as revenues from taxes, imports
on special leguslation, or working capital reserves, do aot cover the ex-
Penditures unde: paragraph (1), the Federal Government cay realise by
way of eredita the fonds necessary to conduct current operations op (o
e-lourth, of the final sum contained in the previous. budget

ind other sources based

Article 112

Expenditure exceeding the budget and any extraordinary expenditures
shall require the approval of the Federal Minister of Finance They may
only be ven in caae of an unforeseen and irrefutable necessity

Article 13

Decisions of the Bundestag and Bundesrat which increase the budget

expenditure proposed by the Federal Government or include, ct imply

for the future, new expenditure, shall require the approval of the Federal
jovernment

Article 116
The Federal Minister of Finance must present to the Bundestag and

3."Realsteuern” (taxes on real estate and on businesses) with the
‘exception of the fixing of tax rates

if it makes a claim on the taxes in their entiroty or in part to cover fede:

al it or if the tions of Article 72, 2), sly

(3) Federal legislation on jeld of which accrues

or in port Co the Lecnder or the Gearinden, (Gemeinderecoinds) shall

require the approval of the Bundesrat.

‘taxes the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the an annual of all revenues and expenditures as
well av of ansels and liabilities, The. audit thereof shall be carried: oul
by an Audit Office (Rechnungshol) the members of which shall possess
ivdicial independence. In order to secure a discharge for the Federal

Government, the general statement of account and a survey of the assets
apd liabilities shall to the sand the in
the course of the next fiscal year, together with the observations of the

‘ices "The sulting of accounts shall be Fetlated by a federal

32

we Tos
MPMikey took up tesidence'in Germany after 8 May 1945 and have nol
expressed a wish fo the contrary,
Article 417

(1) Law which conflicts with Article 3, paragraph (2), shall remain
in force until it is adjusted to this provision of the Basic Law, but not
beyond 31 March 1953.

(2) Laws which restrict the right of freedom of movement in consider-
ation of the present housing shorlage shall remain in force until repealed
by federal legislation.

Article 118

The reorganization of the territory comprising the Laender Baden,
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern may be accomplish:
ed, by agreement between the Laender concerned, in a manner devi
ing fom the provisions of Article 29. Should an agreement ol be
reached, the ‘shall be by federal

must provide for a referendum.

Article 119
In matters relating to refugees and expellees, in particular their distrib-

ution to the Laender, the i

of the Bundesr

Bending « regul

y be The i
tions shall, except in case of imminent danger. be directed to the
highest Land: authorities

Article 120

(1) The Federation shall bear the expenses for occupation costs and,
in accordance with more detailed provisions by a federal law, the other
internal and external war-induced burdens, and the grants towards the/
burdens of social insurance, including unemployment insurance, and pub-
lie assistance for the unemployed.

(2) The revenues shall pass to thé Federation at the same lime at
which the Federation assumes the expenditure

Article 121

‘The majority of the members of the Bundestag and of the Federal
Convention within the meaning of this Basic Law shall be the majority
of their statutory number of members.

Article 122
1) As from the assembly of the Bundestag, laws shall be passed ex-
clusively by the legislative authorities recognized in this Basic
(2) With effect from this date, legislative bodies and bodies acting
an advisory capacity in respect of legislation, the competence of which
ends in accordance with paragraph (1), shall be dissolved.

Article 123

(1) Law existing before the assembly of the Bundestag shall remain in
force, insofar as it does not conflict with the Basic Law.

(2) The state treaties conclyded by the German Reich concerning matt-
ers for which, according to this Basic Law, Land legislation is compet-
ent. shall remain in force if they are valid and continue to be valid

to general, basic pr of law, while ng all
rights and objections of those concerned, uniil new state treaties” shall
have been concluded by the-authorities made competent to do so by this
Basic Law or unlil they are otherwise terminated on the grounds of the
provisions they contain.

Article 124
Law concerning matters within the exclusive lefislative competence
of the Federation shall become federal law within the are of fis applic:
ation
Article 125
Law concerning matters of concurrent federal legislation shall become
(federal law within the area of its application,
L.insofar as it
ation,
2antoar as it concerns law by which former, Reich law has bees
Lmended since 8 May 1945
Arucle 126

Divergencies of opinion on the continued validity of law as federal law
shall be decided by the Federal Constitutional Court

uniformly valid within one or more zones of occup

Article 127

Within one year alter promulgation of this Basic Law the Federal
Government may, with the approval of the Governments of the Laender
concerned, extend law of the Bizonal Economic Administ
as it continues in, force as federal law according to Articles 123 oF 126,
to the Laender Baden, Greater Berlin, Rhineland-Palatinate and Wuert-
temberg-Hohenzollern

Article 128

Insotar as in accordance with still valid law, powers to give instruct-
tons within the meaning of Article 84, paragraph (5). still exisl, these
shall remain in force pending some other legislative regulation.

Article 129

U} Insotar as tegal provisions which continue in force as federal law

Sontain an suthonaation to ius orders (Recottoerardnangen} or gear

to perform acts, this authori~

Zalion shall pass to the authorities cow competent for the subject matter

4 doublfal cases the Federal Government shall decide by agreement with
the Bundesrat: the decision must be

(2) Insofar as legal provicions which contioue sn force a Land law
contain such an ion, Ht shall be by the
competent according to Land law.

(3) Insofar as legal provisions within the meaning of paragraphs (1)
and (2) authorize the alteration or amplification or the issue of legal pro-
visions instead of laws, these authorizations shall lapse.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply appropriately
insofar as legal provisions refer to regulations no longer val
to institutions no longer in existence.

JUNE 14, 1949

--- Page 36 ---
Article 130

(1) Administrative organs and other institutions serving the public
administration or administration of justice, which are not based
Gn Land law of treaties between La a5 well as the amalgamated
‘tonagement of the South West German railways and the Administrative

e and estal shall be the Federal Min-

inter.

{Q) Public law corporations and institutions not directly supervised
by a Land and not based on trealies between Laender, shall be under the
Supervision of the competent highest federal authority.

Article 131

he tga slatus ol persons, tncluding the relugees and expeees who
weit employed in the pubhe service om € Nay 1043 and who have tel
SEES som ether thon thove based on evil sevice of tart tegel
Serie (abe hihesto have not been employed or nol faa poston
rows gading 10 thew former one, shall be regulated by federal lege
GEERT shall apply to persons, cluding the relugoct and x
Teele who mere entitled to's pension or other assistance on'8 May 19th
rat Tho no longer receive such or something equivalent for reason other
Bee bevel on civil service of tani regulations. Without preiediee
iter see tgalotions by Land sw, loge! claims may’ not be raced ont
the teeral law somes into force

Article 132

(1) Officials (Beamte) and judges who. at the time this Basic Law
comes into force, have been appointed for life may, within. six months
Slter the first meeting of the Bundestag, be placed on the retired list oF
‘waiting list or be transferred to another office with less remuneration if
they. are personally or professionally unsuitable for their office. This
provision shall apply appropriately also to employees (Argestellte) not
Subject to notice of dismissal In the cast of employees
whose conditions of service require notice of dismissal, noti
that required by tariff regulations may be cancelled within the

(2) The provisions shall not apply to members of the public service
by the

fn laws or who are
recognized victims of national socialism, insofar as there are no important
objections against such persons.

(3) Those affected by the above shall have recourse to the courte in
accordance with Article 19, paragraph (4).

{4) Details shall be determined by an order (Verordnung) of the
Federal Government, which shall require the approval of the Bundesrat

Article 133

‘The Federation shall succeed to the rights and obligations of the Bi-
tonal Economic Administration,

Article 134

(1) Reich property shall in principle become federal property.

{2} It shall, without compensation, be transferred to {ne authorities
sow competent to carry out the functions, insofar as tt was originally
destined mainly for adminisicative functions which according to this Basic
Law are not administrative functions of the Federation, and to the Laender
insofar as, according to its present, not solely temporary, use, it serves
for administrative functions which according to this Basic’ Law are
sow to be fulfilled by the Laender. The Federation may also transler
other property to the Laender

(3) Property which was placed at the disposal of the Reich by the
Laender and Gemeinden (Gemeindeverbande} shall, without
Become once more the property of the Laender and Gemeiden (Gemein-
deverbinde, insofar athe Federation does not require it for its own ad-
ministrative functions.

(4) Details shall be regulated by a federal law which shall require the
approval of the Bundesrat

Article 135

(1) If, between 8 May 1945 and the coming into force of thie Basic
Law, a territory has changed from one Land to another, in this territory
the property of the Land to which the territory belonged shall be trans
ferred to the Land to which the territory now belongs.

(2) Insofar as it was originally destined mainly {6r admmistrative
functions, of is at present, and not solely temporarily, mainly used for
administrative the property of Laender and other public law
corporations and institutions no longer existing shall be transferred to the
Land or public law corporation of institution now performing these funet-

G3) Real estate of Laender no tonger existing. including appurten:
ances, shall, insofar as it does nol already belong to the property within
the meaning of paragraph (1), be transferred to the Land in the territory
of which it is situated.

(4) Insofar as an overriding interest of the Federation or the particular
interests of a territory require it, a regulation deviating from para
araphs (1) to (3} may be adopted by federal legislation

(5) Otherwise the legal succession and the settlement (ol property).
insolar as it has not been effected by 1 January 1952 by agreement be-
tween the Laender or public law corporations or institutions concerned,
shall be regulated by federal legislation which shall require the approval
of the Bundesrat.

(5) Participations of the former Land Prussia in civil law enterprises
shall pass to the Federation. Details shall be regulated by a federal law
which may make provisions deviating from this.

(6) Insofar as property which. according to paragraphs (1) to (3).
would accrue to'a Land or @ public law corporation or institution, has
been disposed of by the authority thereby authorized by means of a Land
aw, on the basis of a Land law or in some other way at the coming into
force of the Basic Law, the transfer of property shall be considered as
having been effected before the disposal.

Article 136
1) The Bundesrat shall meet for the first time on the day of the first
sembly of the Bundestag
2) Until the election of the first Federal President, hie functions shall
be exercised by the President of the Bundesrat. He shail not have the right
to dissolve the Bundestag

Article 137
(1) The eligibility for election ot olficials (Beamte), employees (An-

geste} of the public’ serie’ ‘judger of the Foeraton, of the

Enender and of the Gemeinden may be restricted by legislation.

(2) For the election of the first Bundestag, of the first Federal Coa
vention and of the frst Federal President of the Federal Republic of
Germany the Electoral Law to be adopted by the Parliamentary Couacil
shall apply.

(2) Tre functions of the Federal Constitutional Court purmuant to
Asticle 41, shal 'be pending ite
by the German High Court for the Combined Economic Area which shall
decide in accordance with its Standing Orders (Rules of Procedure)

Article 138

jes in the existing organization of notaries in the Laender Baden,

approval of the Governments of these Laender.

Article 139

r the liberation bf the German people
rism shall not be affected by the pro-

The legal provi
from national soci
visions of this Ba:

Law

Article 140

The provisions of Articles 136, 137, 138, 139 and 141 of the German
Constitution of 11 August 1919 shall be an integral part of this Basic Law.

Article 141

Article 7, paragraph (3), first sentence, shall not apply in « Land i
which on't damuaty 1949 another legal Land fegulaton erated /

Article 142

Without prejudice to Article 31, provisions of the Land Constitutions
shall also remain io force, insofar as they conform to Articles 1 to 18.

Article 143

(1) Whoever by force or the threat of force changes the constitutional
order of the Federation or of « Li es the Federal President of
the powers accorded to him by ‘aw of who by force or the

ise his powers ia a specific manner
‘all, or prevents the exercise of his powers, or deprives the Fed:
exation of a Lond of a territory belonging to them shall be condemned to
penal servitude for life or not less than 10 years.

(2) Whoever publicly incites to an action within the meaning of para-
wotler person, shall be condemned to penal servitude up to 10 years.

(3) In less serious cates, a sentence of not less than two years penal
servitude in the cases provided for in paragraph {i). aad of oot oss tne
foe year's imprisonment in the caste provided for in parageagh (al, may
beimpo

(8) Whoever of is own Uae will gies up hs activity oF. i cane of
participation of several persons, prevents a conspiracy, may not be pune
{shed in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs il] t@ (he

(5) Insofar as the action is directed exclusively against the conatitut
tgnal order of « Land, the highest court of the Land shall, in the absence
shany otter sa Lad, be '

rrwise the superior court (Oberlon
the first Federal Government chooser

petent to pass
*ht). in the district of which
shall be competent.

valid pending another reg-

(6) The aforementioned provisions
ulation by federal law.

Article 144

(1) This Basic Law shall require acceptance by the popular represént
ative bodies io two-thirds of the German Laeoder in which Wt sball iit:
tally be

(2) Insofar as restrictions are imposed on the application of the Basic
Law to one of the Laender enumerated in Article 23, parageaph (1); or
to a part of one of there Lacnder, that Land or a pari of that Lend shail
have the right, in accordance with Article 38, fo send representatives othe
Bundestag and, in accordance with Article 50. to the Bundesrat,

Article 145
(1) The -y Council with the pi

lives of Greater Berlin shall in a public m

of this Basic Law, engross it and promulgat
(2) This Basic Law shall come into force at 1 1 day of

its promulgation. ICI 7U)
(3) It shall be published in the Federal Legal Gazette,

of the rep:
‘confirm the adoption

Article 146

This Basic Law shall become invalid on the day when a constitution
adopted in a Tree decision by the German people comer into foree,

(Continued from page 28)
The Basic Law

Finance—Federation has exclusive
legislation on customs and financial
monopolies (105-1) and concurrent
legislation on excise taxes and taxes
on transactions (except for taxes “with
localized application”) and on income,
Property, inheritance and donations
taxes (105-2). Federation may share
with states part of the income and
corporation taxes (106-3). Federation
May make grants to states to aid
those with low revenues and to
equalize burdens but money must be
handed directly to the states (106-4).
Federation and states to be self-
supporting and independent of each
other “in their budget economy”
(109°. Federal finance authorities in
general will administer their part of
‘axes, the states the remaining taxes
(108). c

Occupation costs—Federation shall
bear the expense (120-1).

War burdens and social security—
Government's share of these expenses
to be borne by federation (120-1).

Police and security—To avert “im-
Minent danger“ to the democratic
order one state may call on police of

JUNE 14, 1949

other states, Federal government also
may direct state police until danger
has been overcome but must cease
this direction if council demands
(91-1, 2). -

Bizonal Economic Administration—
“The federation shall succeed to the
tights and obligations of the Bizonal
Economic Administration” (133).

Duration of Basic Law—"This Basic
Law shall become invalid on the day
when a constitution adopted in a
free decision by the German people
comes into force" (146).

Ban on Dual Offices

MG Law No. 20 requiring German
judges and certain government of-
ficials to give up their public-service
posts on accepting election to the
first assembly (Bundestag) of the
Federal Republic of Germany was
published by OMGUS.

Its publication followed aggreement
by the military governors of the Brit-
ish, French and US Zones to enact
such legislation simultaneously.

The provision that members of the
directly-elected house of the German
parliament should not at the same
time hold certain other public posts
grows out of the concept of guaran-

33

teeing the mutual integrity of _the
new government.

In the London Agreements of May
1948 the governments of the three
occupying powers stipulated that in
the new West German regime whose
formation they were authorizing
“the executive must have only those
powers which are definitely pre-
scribed by the constitution."

In this connection, the Parliamen-
tary Council at Bonn was requested
in a tripartite aide-memoire of Nov.22
to include a provision in the Basic
Law which would insure “that a
public servant, if elected to the
federal legislature, shall resign his
office with the agency where he is
employed before he accepts election.”

On June1 the military governors
advised the West German ministers
president that “we subsequently
agreed not to make this principle of
a non-political civil service a con-
dition of approval of the Basic Law.
However, we continue to believe that
this is an issue of fundamental im-
portance which must be decided by
the German people without regard to
personal advantages which may
accrue to individual legislators or
individual civil servants involved.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Excerpts from Official Instructions, Announcements

Short Story Contest

An Army short story contest is announced
for all Army personnel. This contest, which
is sponsored by the Chief of Special Services,
EUCOM, is designed to stimulate creative
writing among Army personnel. Commanders
will publicize this contest to assure that all
officers and enlisted personnel are informed
and given an opportunity to participate.

Command and installation librarians will
assist in the publicity program for this contest
by preparing displays, exhibits, posters, etc.,
to be placed in all library facilities.

In order to stimulate the widest possibie
interest and to avoid the necessity of judging
an excessively large number of entries, pre-
liminary contests will be held at installation
level;

(a) All Army, Air Force, and American
civilian personnel will be eligible, including
members of Reserve components on active
duty for a period of not more than 90 days.

(b) Judges will be chosen by the installation
commanding officer, assisted by the post or
staff librarian, The judges will be one US
Amy officer, one enlisted person and one US
civilian.

(c) Post and command finals will be held
Aug. 15—Sept. 15.

(d) 1st, 2nd, and 3rd prizes will be provided
by local’ commands.

(e) Winners on post and command level will
be submitted in time to reach the Office of
Chief Special Services, EUCOM (Attn: Rec-
reational Branch, Library Section), on or
before Sept. 15, 1949.

(f) Posts and commands will be permitted to
send to the EUCOM finals one entry per 2,000
troop strength.

(g)_All entries will be accompanied by a
completed DA AGO Form R-5598 (Entry Blank-
Short Story Contest) attached securely to the
manuscript being submitted.

EUCOM Finals. (a) All Army, Air Force
and American civilian personnel will be
eligible, including members of Reserve com-
ponents on active duty for a period of not
more than 90 days.

(b) Judges will be selected by the Chief of
Special Services, EUCOM, consisting of one
officer, one enlisted person and one US
civilian,

(c)_ Judging will be between Sept. 15 and
Oct. 15 to permit entries for the Department
of the Army competition to reach the Chief of
Special Services, Department of the Army by
Nov. 1.

(d) 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th prizes will be
presented by the Office of Chief of Special
Services, EUCOM.

(e) EUCOM will be permitted a maximum
entry to Department of the Army finals of one
per 2,000 troop strength.

(f) Contestants may win only one prize at
EUCOM level.

Department of the Army Finals. (a) Only
Army personnel are eligibie, including members
of Reserve components on’ active duty for a
period of more than 90 days.

(b) A screening board designated by the
Chief of Special Service, Department of the
Amy, will select the ‘entries to be sub-
mitted to the final judges.

(c) A committee made up of outstanding
authors, reviewers and editors will judge the
final entries.

(a) The first three winning stories will be
published in Collier's Weekly.

(e) Ten or more of tie best stories will be
published in a collected volume by Rinehard
& Company of New York. All royalties ac-
cruing from the sale of the book will be
divided equally among the authors.

(f) Copyrights for all stories published will
be secured by the publisher concerned and
assigned to the respective authors.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(g) Manuscripts will, be edited by the
publisher concerned prior to publication of
stories.

(h) Manuscripts
contestants.

(i) All manuscripts will be submitted on
8 X 10'/2 inch paper, typewritten on one side
of the paper only and double-spaced. Manu-
scripts will be securely fastened and covered
with a protective paper, preferably a manila
folder.

(j) Only manuscripts of stories previously
unpublished in any form and of which the
author is sole owner and proprietor of the
publishing rights will be submitted.

(k) Contestants will certify that manuscripts
submitted are free and clear of libel.

()) Contestants may submit as many entries
as desired.

(m) Entries will be judged first on originality
of story and freshness of approach; second,
on literary style and technique. A com-
bination of these factors, will merit the
greatest attention. The decision of the judges
will be final.

(n) It is not contemplated that the contest
will interfere with normal execution of military
duties.

(0) Contestants will agree to the publication
of the story, as described in subparagraphs d
and e, above, if selected by the judges.

(p) Stories submitted will not exceed 8,000
words.

(q) No responsibility can be assumed by
the Army for damage or loss of entry sub-
mitted.

(t) Each entrant will fill out DA AGO Form
R-5598 (Entry Blank-Army Short Story Contest)
and attach it securely to the manuscript being
submitted. Local reproduction on 5 /’' 8" paper
is authorized. Each reproduced copy will
contain the form number, title and date.

Rules governing the Department of the Army
finals. Subparagraphs h through 1 will apply
to all levels of competition in the European
Command.—From EUCOM Letter AG 000.76
SSP-AGO, May 4.

will not be returned to

International Frontier Control

Regulations Nox 1 under Military Govern-

ment Law No. 17, as amended, in con-
junction with Cir 68, Hq EUCOM, 1949,
implements Law No, 17:

(a) prohibits the movement of certain

property across the international frontier of
the United States Area of Control;

(b) requires the making of customs de-
clarations;
(c) authorizes persons crossing the inter-

national frontier to deposit certain property
with the German customs officials;

(4) provides for the dispositions of property
seized from persons who violate Law No. 17,
Regulation No. 1, or EUCOM Cir 68.

(e) provides special treatment for persons
having diplomatic status and for diplomatic
couriers; and

(f) requires persons subject to Regulation
No. 1 to comply with the customs inspection
and border control regulations of other
Occupying Powers when crossing the inter-
national frontier of the Area of Control of
such Powers. From OMGUS Letter AG
010.6 (LD), April 27.

German Information Activities

In Accordance with the general policy of
gradually relinquishing control over German
information activities, US Military Govern-
ment is prepared to relinquish its licensing
powers in the field of newspapers, books,
periodicals and other publications as soon as
adequate legislation to protect the freedom
of the press has been enacted in the various
states. The decision has therefore been made
to issue General License. No. 3 under In-

34

formation Control Regulation No. 3 Amended
(1) to permit any person not otherwise
prohibited by German or MG Law to engage

in the publication of newspapers, books,
periodicals, pamphlets, posts and other
publications, providing such person conforms

to the restrictions set forth in Section 6 of
Information Control Regulation No.3 Amended
(1), namely the prohibitons against the prop-
agation of Nazi ideas and certain types of
opposition to Military Government.

This general license shall become effective
in each of the states of the US Zone on the
date prescribed in a notice or notices to be
subsequently published. Such notice or notices
may provide different effective dates for each
of the states following enactment by such
state of satisfactory legislation guaranteeing
freedom of the press in that state. — From
OMGUS Letter AG 680.44 (IS), May 2.

Commutation of Sentences

The directors of MG for the four states of
the US Area of Control and for the US.
sector of Berlin will cause the records of
trial of all persons now in German custody,
who were sentenced by MG courts established
pursuant to MG Ordnance No. 2, as amended,
and whose cases have not been considered
by the OMGUS Clemency Review Board, to
be sent to the appropriate MG Parole or
Commutation of Sentence and Pardon Boards
(in the US sector of Berlin the Clemency
Board) with instructions to consider, in
addition to their regular duties, whether due

process has been had, whether in their
opinion the evidence sustains the findings
of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, and

whether the sentence is excessive.

Court records of the trials of all applicants:
for clemency shall accompany all cases sub-
mitted to the MG Parole, Commutation of
Sentence and Pardon Boards (in the US
sector of Berlin the Clemency Board)
established in accordance with letter, ‘'Es-
tablishment of Provisions for Parole,’ Com-
mutation of Sentence and Pardon _ for,
Sentenced MG Court Prisoners in Cerman
Custody in the four States of the US Area
of Control in Germany." (AG 014.5 (LD),
OMGUS, dated July 15).

An educational program will be immediately
inaugurated through MG Land Legal Offices
for the benefit of US and German Parole,
Commutation of Sentence and Pardon Boards.
This program will continue and intensify the
educational program for the benefit of persons
concerned with clemency matters which is.
now administered by the OMGUS Clemency
Executive and the Land MG parole super-
visors

The Directors of MG for the four states of

the US Area of Control and for the US-.

sector of Berlin will keep the Director,
Legal Division, informed of the progress
made, and will submit to him a formal

report when the above actions have been
accomplished. — From OMGUS Letter AG
015 (LD), May 27.

Fragebogen Offenders

MG Order No. 1, pursuant to MG Ordinance
No. 1, “Clemency for Fragebogen (question-
naire) Offenders", provides for the release of
persons who are serving sentences imposed
by Militry Government courts for offenses
under Ordinance No. 1 involving falsification
of Fragebogen. The use of the Fragebogen

was generally discontinued as the result of:

OMGUS cable V-12957 of Jan. 16, 1947. it is,

estimated that the number of persons who will
be affected by the amnesty in the US Area
of Control will be under 50.

The German authorities should be provided
with copies of the Order so that they may
arrange for appropriate duplication and distri-
bution. Copies of the Order should also be
made available to persons responsible for the
implementation thereof. Care should be taken
that the information contained

JUNE 14, 1949

in the Order~

--- Page 38 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Report for the Month of March, JEIA,
March 1949.

Station List of Organizations in the European
Command, AG 319.26 AGU, Hq EUCOM,
30 April 1949.

Supervisors’ Handbook on Disciplinary Ac-
tion, Hq EUCOM, 1 May 1949.

EUCOM Publication, Depot Bulletin No. 18,
Hq EUCOM, 4 May 1949. Covers April 25 to 29.

7789 Hospital Detachment, Table of Distri-
bution No. 303-1457-D, Hq EUCOM, 10 May 1949

Bipartite Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Group, Weekly Report No. 45, PIO OMGUS
(Frankfurt), 13 May 1949.

Legislation for Monetary Reform, AG 010.6
(FA), OMGUS, 16 May 1949.

Allied Military Missions, AG 091.112 (SG),
OMGUS, 16 May 1949.

Amendment No.1 to MG Law No. 15, “Bi-
zonal Public Servants", AG 010.6 | (LD),
OMGUS, 18 May 1949.

Minutes of the EUCOM Character Guidance
Council Meeting 5 April 1949, AG 334 GPA-
AGO, Hq EUCOM, 18 May 1949.

Bipartite Commerce and Industry Group,
Weekly Report No. 47, PIO OMGUS (Frank-
furt), 18 May 1949.

Orders Nos. 6, 7 and 8 Pursuant to Article
Im (5) of MG Proclamation No.7 ‘“Bizonal
Economic Adiministration", AG 010.6 (LD),
OMGUS, 19 May 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 123, ISD
OMGUS, 19 May 1949.

Program of Inspections for Fiscal Year 1950,
AG 333.81 IGI-AGO, Hq EUCOM, 20 May 1949.

Publications of OMGUS Agencies, AG 461
(AG), OMGUS, 21 May 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4,
OMGUS, 21 May 1949.

Feeding in Approved IRO (PCIRO) Operated
and Controlled Refugee and Displaced Persons
(UNDP's) Assembly Centers, in US Areas of
Control in Germany, AG 080 (EA), OMGUS,
23 May 1949. .

Clemency for Fragebogen Offenders, AG
383.3 (LD), OMGUS, 23 May 1949.

Voting of Shares of Stock by Agents of Ab-
sentee Owners: General License No. 16 under
MG Law No. 52, AG 010.6 (PD), OMGUS,
23 May 1949.

Semi-Monthly Military Government Report,
No. 113, PIO OMGUS, 23 May 1949,

No. 124, ISD

Copies of Instructions listed in

the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to
the originating headquarters.

German Economic Press Review No. 185,
OEA, CCG (BE), 24 May 1949.

Failure of Reserve Officers to Submit WD
AGO Form 603 (Organized Reserve Corps—
Change of Address and Status Report),
AGAO-S 326.2, OMGUS, 24 May 1949.

News of Germany, Vol. 4, No. 125, ISD
OMGUS, 24 May 1949.

Heute (in German), No. 85, ISD OMGUS,
25 May 1949.

MG_ Ordinance No. 36, ‘Amendment No. 4
to MG Ordinance No. 6, “Military Government
Court for Civil Actions’, AG 010.6 (LD),
OMGUS, 26 May 1949.

News of Germany,
OMGUS, 26 May 1949,

Special Instructions Relative to Commuta-
lion of Sentences, Pardon, and Parole Boards,
AG 015 (LD), OMGUS, 27 May 1949.

Processing of Expulson Orders Recom-
mended by MG Courts, AG 015.3 (LD), OMGUS,
27 May 1949.

Withdrawal of Army Logistic Support trom
Certain Categories of Non-German Persons
and Agencies, AG 080 (CO), OMGUS, 28 May
1949.

News of Germany,
OMGUS, 28 May 1949.

Information Bulletin, No. 162, CO OMGUS,
31 May 1949.

Neue Auslese (in German),
ISD OMGUS, June 1949.

Vol.4, No. 126, ISD

Vol. 4, No. 127, ISD

Vol. 4, No. 6,

will not be divulged to unauthorized persons
before the effective date of the Order. —
From OMGUS Letter AG 383.3 (LD), May 23.

Voting of Stock Shares

General License No. 16 will enable absentee
owners of stock interests in German enter-
prises to exercise their voting rights through
duly appointed agents, in accordance with
applicable provisions of German law, and
will facilitate the release from MG Property
Control custody, to majority interests, of prop-
erties which have heretofore been taken into
custody by reason of the existence of a minor-
ity stock interest owned by absentees, and
for no other reason, — From OMGUS Letter
AG 010.6 (PD), May 23.

Oversea Tours

Oversea tours of enlisted men serving in
EUCOM in grades five, six or seven (private
first class, private and recruit), who are not
specialists in certain fields, may be shortened
by periods up to 24 months. The authority
to decrease the terms of duty was granted
in order to help reduce the current over-
strength of some units assigned to the
European Command. Men returned to the
United States before the expiration date of
their oversea tours will be reassigned to
duty in the United States or in another
command. — From EUCOM announcement.

Payments for Imports

German importers must make Deutsche-
mark payments for the full value of centrally
procured GARIOA and Marshall Plan goods
before receiving physical possession of the
material. Previously, the German importer
could, if he so desired, arrange financing
by means of promissory notes,

Where control of the goods is transferred
to an Aussenhandelsstelle, Einfuhrkontor or
official governmental organization for dis-
tribution to the German economy, the goods
will only be released by JEIA on evidence
that Deutsche-mark payment has been made
to the Bank Deutscher Laender. These
agencies, in turn, may only release goods to
third parties against evidence provided by
a German bank that appropriate DM financing
has been arranged.

The new procedure, outlined in an amend-
ment to JEIA Instruction No. 3, does not
apply to -decentralized imports, i. e. those
procured under regulations established by

e Import Advisory Committee. Under IAC
Procedure, the individual importer arranges

JUNE 14, 1949

payment terms in accordance with prevailing
customs of the trade. — From JEIA
announcement.

Foreign Agents Accounts

Shipping agents operating in Germany may
now open and maintain bank accounts for
their foreign principals. Such accounts, known
as agents accounts, will enable ships’ agents,
brokers, freight forwarders and transport
agents to effect payment for pilotage, towage,
port dues and other operational charges.

Shipping agents will also be permitted to
pay out cash amounts in Deutsche-marks for
shore money of ships crews and for ships
husbandry.

These agents accounts must be established
in an Aussenhandelsbank (Foreign Exchange
Bank) and will be maintained in Deutsche-
marks only, although agents are permitted,
without special permission, to transfer
amounts to their foreign principals in the
appropriate foreign currency, Such transfers,
however, can only be made to firms in the
United ‘States, Canada and countries with
which Germany has payments agreements.

German exporters and importers may pay
amounts due for freight and other charges
directly into such accounts through the
medium of their own Aussenhandelsbanken.

These banking facilities are available to Ger-
man shipping agents and non-German agents
of foreign conpanies operating in Germany,
providing the companies are located in
countries which allow reciprocal facilities to
German shipping. The agents accounts are
not subject to the provisions of MG Laws
No. 52 (Blocking and Control of Property)
and 53 (Foreign Exchange Control), — From
JEIA announcement.

Border Crossing Points

International boundary crossing points that
US, Allied and neutral occupation personnel
must use when entering or leaving Germany,
across the international border of the French
area of control in Germany, were listed by
EUCOM Headquarters.

Border inspection and customs officials are
on duty at railroad stations when inter-
national trains are scheduled to arrive or
depart. ‘‘Permanent’’ border stations on high-
ways were open 24 hours a day, while those
designated at ‘semi-permanent’’ are open
between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m, in summer time,

and 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. in winter.

The locations of the international boundary
crossing points from French occupied ter-

35

ritory, are as follows:

Between Germany and Austria—Lindau
station for rail passenger; and Lindau—Ziegel-
haus for motorists (semi-permanent),

Between Germany and Switzerland—train
travelers will use the Singen or Badoise de
Bale stations. Motorists must cross at Con-
stance—Kreuzingen (permanent), —_Bietingen
(semi-permanent), | Neuhaus—Bargen ~ (per-
manent), Lorragh—Stetten (semi-permanent),
or Weil—Otterbach (permanent).

Between Germany and France—rail travelers
will cross at the Neuenbourg, Kehl or Worth
stations. Motorist may enter or leave via the
Huningue or Plittersdorf Ferries (customs
officials will be on duty during the hours
the ferry operates; or on highwayk on the
Brisach route (permanent), Kehl South (semi-
permanent), Kehl East (permanent), or the
Schweigen route (permanent).

Between Germany and the Saar District—
train passengers will use the Zweibrucken
(Einod), Bruchmuhlbach (Hombourg), Nev-
brucke (Turkismuhle), Saarebourg (Saarholz-
bach) or Wincheringen (Nennig) — railroad
stations, Highway check points are on the

Zweibrucken (Einod) route (semi-permanent).
Vogelbach (Eidchelcheid) route (permanent),
Neubrucke (Nofelden) route (permanent), or

Paren (Nennig) route (semi-permanent)

When entering or leaving the British and
French Zones across the international frontiers
of Germany, EUCOM Occupation personnel
are required to comply with all customs
inspections and border controls as may be
required by the British or French occupation
authorities. They also are subject to EUCOM
import and export restrictions (such as those
on tobacco and foreign currencies.

Transfer to Air Corps

Officers of the EUCOM Army Medical
Department and Corps of Chaplains must in-
dicate before July 1 whether or not they
wish to transfer to the medical or chaplain
departments now being established for the
Air Force.

The Secretary of Defense recently approved
separate medical and chaplain departments
for the army and the air force, and personnel
necessary to meet the requirements of the air
force in the new departments may be trans-
ferred on a voluntary basis from the army.
The transfers will be completed by July 26.

At the present time, the transfer of entlisted
men and women of the Army Medical Depart-
ment will be limited to special category
army personnel, who are on special duty
with the Air Force. — From EUCOM an-
nouncement.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Why must we export coal and lumber
to such countries as France and Eng-
land while such commodities are
greatly needed for German recon-
struction?

A reasonable living standard can
be regained by the Bizonal population
only if the Bizone succeeds in pushing
its exports to about $3,000,000,000
per year. This roughly would balance
the country’s import requirements in
foods, industrial raw materials and
capital equipment. Such an export
figure, however, can only be attained
if every conceivable exportable prod-
uct is thrown on the scales.

Coal has always been a major item
among Germany's exports, but some
timber was normally imported to fill
the country’s needs without depleting
its forest reserves. Present timber ex-
ports are obviously at the expense
of the country’s standing timber re-
sources, but are justified by the un-
availability of this product elsewhere
and the need for it in countries affect-
ed by the war with Germany. How-
ever, both timber and coal exports
are paid for in dollars which accrue
to the Bizone and are essential to its
economic rehabilitation. Moreover,
the ERP provides for an early return
to sound forestry management, with
timber exports to be entirely elimi-
nated within a few years.

It has been the policy of the Mili-
tary Governments to assure that
enough coal is retained in the Bizone
to meet its requirements, and stren-
uous efforts are being made to curb
wasteful usage of coal within the
German economy. (OEA-OMGUS)

* * *

What is the function of IARA and is
the Soviet Union represented in this
agency?

TIARA (Inter-Allied Reparation
Agency) is located at Brussels and is
made up of representatives of each
of 19 countries which receive repa-
rations under the Act of Paris signed
in late 1945. Reparations to be re-
moved from the three western zones
of Germany for allocation to the
Western governments are reported to
IARA, which sub-allocates all such

STIONS

and

reparations among the 19 member
governments in accordance with the
provisions stipulated in the Act of
Paris. IARA also acts as the medium
through which these governments
receive information concerning, and
express their wishes in regard to,
items available as reparations. The
agency also deals with questions
relating to German assets located in
each of the member countries.

The Soviet Union is not a member
of IARA, nor is it represented therein.
(PD-OMGUS)

* * *

What is the outstanding public health
problem in Germany today?

Tuberculosis remains the major
public health problem. Although the
incidence of infectious cases is now
on the decrease, existing hospital
facilities in the US zone are inade-
quate to care for those suffering
from this disease. Shortage of building
materials for new hospitals is a
further deterrent to an improvement
in the situation. In Berlin alone 8,800

hospital beds are lacking. (CAD-
OMGUS)

* * *
What are “duress properties and

how are they protected?

“Duress” properties are those which
have been the subject of transfer
under duress, wrongful acts of con-
fiscation or other improper means.
Such transactions may be voided
pursuant to Military Government
Law No. 59, the Restitution Law.

These properties have been placed
under control by MG to protect them
pending their release to the former
rightful owners or to their successors
in interest. During this interim period,

In this section are printed the best
and most repeated questions and answers
which are forwarded to the Information
Bulletin. Questions, especially those
addressed by Germans to occupational
personnel, may be sent to the Editor,
and the competent authority on the
subject will be requested to prepare
the reply. The questions must be
confined to the sphere of US Military
Government or affiliated activities in
Germany.

ANSWERS

}
such properties carry on their normal
operations and functions or uses
under control of a custodian. Custody
is maintained until the conclusion of
an amicable settlement or final adju-
dication by the restitution authorities
in accordance with MG Law No. 59,
The law provides for hearings before ©

‘the German restitution agencies and

restitution chambers (Landgerichte),
with a right of appeal to the Civil
Courts of Appeal (Oberlandesgerichte)
or to the Board of Review, which is
composed of American judges. (PD.
OMGUS)

* * *

German motor car production cannot
meet the demand of the domestic and
export market. Why does not JEIA
permit essential German users to
purchase foreign automobiles which
are for sale by German dealers?

Because the foreign exchange avail-
able to Germany is required for ~
articles of higher priority than motor
cars. These cars would have to be
paid for in foreign exchange which,
at the present time, can be better
used to purchase food and industrial
materials. German agents of foreign
automobile manufacturers, therefore,
at the moment sell only to Allied
personnel for US dollars or other
acceptable foreign exchange. (JEIA)

* * *

A business man is already in Germany
and wishes to arrange a tour with a
German travel bureau. Can he do so
and make payment in dollars?

Yes. There are two German travel
organizations, which can do this: The’
Deutsche Reisebuero and the Deut-
sche Touring-Gesellschaft. Both of
these agencies have offices in nearly
every large German city and most
of the popular tourist spots. (JEIA)

* * * a

Is anything being done to restore
the famous mineral bath centers of
Germany? ;

Yes. In many of the spa areas, the
military authorities have derequisi-
tioned the facilities and the premises
are being put into condition for
tourists as fast as we are able to ge’
materials. (JEIA)

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF