--- Page 2 ---
SPECIAL
ISSUE

NORTH RHINE
WESTPHALIA

COLOGNE

s
» BONN

REGENSBURG

BAVARIA

chon ae Division
 Poblie Relations Division

--- Page 3 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Office of Public Affairs .

Exchanges Division DG Do On

Education and Cultural Relations Division .

US Information Centers .

Theater and Music .

Education . ;
Democratization of School yeteme .
School Housing .
Vocational Education .
Teacher Education .
Postwar Textbooks .
American Institute .
Education Service Centers .
Lay Participation D
Free University of Berlin .

Women's Affairs

_ Religious Affairs

Health & Welfare .

Community Activities
Community Councils
Community Recreation
Youth Activities .

Adult Education .
Audio-Visual Aid

Governmental Institutions .

Resident Officers ;

Information Services Division

Press & Publications .

US Feature. Service

Publishing Operations

RIAS
German Radio .

Motion Pictures

Reactions Analysis

Public Relations Division .

10
15
17
18
20
21
23
25
26
27
28

30
35
37

Al
40
40
42
44
46

47
49
51
52
55
57
59
62
63
66
69

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS BRANCH — INFORMATION BULLETIN

' FRANKFURT, GERMANY '

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 4 ---
SOU

Office of Publie Affairs

fie TEST OF GERMANY '’S adherence to democratic thought may not come this
year or next, but come it will, and it may well be severe... The democratic faith
will have to have strong roots. It is our job to strengthen those roots ... The solemn
hope is that what Germans feel and think and do will determine that issue in the right
manner, and that no outside force will be necessary to prescribe it... We can and
should do all in our power to dilute the strong inclination of the modern German
to place his faith in the authority of the state rather than in his own responsibility
as a citizen.”

These are the words of the US High Commissioner in his message to all HICOG
personnel on the occasion of the transfer of the governmental administration in
the occupation of Germany from the Department of the Army to the Department of
State—the phasing out of Military Government's control and command operations
and the initiation of the Department of State policy of observation, advice and
assistance to the Germans.

With the transfer of responsibility from Military Government to High Commis-
sion for Germany came a reorganization of the functions, operations and activities of
the US occupation forces in Germany. Those agencies dealing with the cultural, edu-
cational and informational aspects of the new German democracy were consoli-
dated within the newly created Office of Public Affairs. The Director of the Office
of Public Affairs was made responsible for insuring the full and effective coordina-
tion of the reorientation program with the over-all policies of the US Government
and the High Commission in Germany.

It is the objective of this reorientation program to develop a democratic, peaceful
Germany through guidance, and assistance in its cultural, educational and infor-
mational activities. The reorientation program in Germany is closely coordinated
with the established United States Information and Education program of the De-
partment of State and it is to be noted that wherever possible it is following the
pattern of organization of USIE offices in other countries.

IHE PROGRAM of the Office of Public Affairs is designed to touch the daily life
of the 18,000,000 Germans in the US occupied area in broad general fields of
cultural, educational and informational activities. Each separate division maintains
a specific reeducational target while closely meshing its operations with the other
divisions for the successful implementation of the Office’s over-all reorientation
mission. Within this framework the work of each division complements that of the
others in producing a unified and well-rounded program.
The Exchange of Persons program is one of the most important activities of the
Office of Public Affairs. This program is conducted in cooperation with all offices
of HICOG in order to make sure that promising individuals and influential persons

Sal AN

SPECIAL EDITION 1 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 5 ---
NNO

from all walks of life and occupations in Germany are given the benefit of seeing democracy at
work in the United States. Not only do hundreds of German leaders and students go to the United
States, but also many American and European consultants are brought to Germany, making a
valuable contribution to the reorientation program. This program also includes the exchange of
reorientation materials, advice on grants in aid and other types of assistance to German organi-
zations cooperating in the reorientation program.

The Education and Cultural Relations programs in Germany are varied, including the areas of
formal education, community activities, religious affairs, cultural institutions, public health and
welfare, governmental institutions, 25 information centers, 121. reading rooms and 11 educational
service centers. Its activities encompass the formulation and implementation of a program of advising
and assisting German authorities and community leaders in the areas for which it is functionally
responsible,

The Information Services program includes direct operation of RIAS (Radio in American Sector,
Berlin), one of the largest radio stations in Germany; maintains close coordination with the Voice of
America; advises German radio broadcasting institutions on programming and technical matters;
publishes a German-language newspaper, Die NeueZeitung, with simultaneous daily editions in
Frankfurt, Munich and Berlin; four magazines—Heute, Der Monat, Neue Auslese and Amerikanische
Rundschau; distributes news and feature materials to German newspapers and magazines, secures
special information requested by German writers, editors and publishers, and obtains copyright
arrangements for translation and publication of American articles and books in Germany. Rights of
American documentary films are produced for translation into German versions. Documentary films
are produced in various themes on which no adequate films are available. A weekly Anglo-
American newsreel presenting the British and American view of world events is produced and
distributed. Close surveillance is maintained over German public media to combat anti-democratic
developments or, if justifiable circumstances should arise, through the use of the High Commissioner's
reserved powers.

HE PUBLIC RELATIONS functions include servicing of the US and international press represen-

tatives accredited to HICOG; provides information on US and HICOG policies and activities to
US and world press; initiates and carries out program of “internal” public relations designed to
keep Occupation personnel adequately informed of policies and objectives of the High Commission;
assists German press in coverage of HICOG by publishing official releases in German; pro-
cesses queries from German press; arranges and supervises interviews granted German writers by
Occupation authorities.

Public opinion surveys are conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the various reorientation
programs and to bring German public opinion to the attention of HICOG policy makers and to
the Department of State.

The Office of Public Affairs also provides technical supervision and assistance in the field of
public affairs to the local United States Resident Officers, a principal part of whose duties is the
implementation of the HICOG public affairs program on the county level.

The 498 American employees of the Office of Public Affairs are assigned in almost equal groups
to the headquarters, state and county levels, The headquarters staff, located in Frankfurt, in Bad °
Nauheim, at Radio RIAS, in the three Neue Zeitung newspaper plants, in magazine editorial
offices, and in film and exhibit studios, numbers 158 American employees. Assigned to the US state-
commissioner offices are 183 supervisors and technicians who carry technical public affairs activities
to the local level and who staff the information centers, libraries and other HICOG public affairs
facilities. Stationed on the county level are the 157 resident officers, who implement the program
with county officials and local groups.

There is the undeniable fact that over-all progress in effecting basic changes in institutions and
attitudes has been slow and the results uncertain. The task of the Office of Public Affairs is not an
easy one. It will require great wisdom in the determination of policies and in the selection of
programs. Above all, the situation calls for real leadership capable of making maximum use of
existing opportunities and of joining all available resources and talents in an effective effort which
will insure the achievement of our basic objectives. + END

nl 0000000000000 000000000

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 6 ---
=> DIANA

Exchanges Division

HE EXCHANGES DIVISION has built a bridge from the United States to Ger-
many, and across it now walk the citizens of both nations, in search of a better
way of life for the German people.

The bridge has two main supports — the exchange of persons, one nation to the
other, and the exchange of instructive material from the United States to the
young German state. It is on a main highway leading toward a new kind of Ger-
many, one which will practice a democratic form of self-government and blot out
a past of totalitarianism and war.

The ruins of Germany in 1945 were not only the crumblings of vital buildings,
transportation and sources of supply. Most devastated of all were the minds of
Germany's people — cleansed of the mental patterns by which they had lived for
12 years and floundering in a moral and spiritual void.

To keep feeding into this void the ideals which favor freedom, OMGUS launched
and HICOG is continuing a comprehensive program called ‘reorientation.’ The
Exchanges Division comprises one of its most needed and effective means to this end.

All operations of the Exchanges Division are packaged under the name of
reorientation. It is the belief that the Germans can best learn democracy by
rubbing elbows with it. And the; Exchanges Division is dedicated to making as
close and extensive as possible this contact between Americans and Germans.

AIN EMPHASIS of the program is the exchange of persons: the sending of

responsible and open-minded Germans to the United States to learn first-
hand the infusion of democracy into the administration of justice, the organization
of farmers and labor, of politics, administration and the education system. Bolster-
ing this phase of the program are transportation and visa arrangements, pre-visit
orientation and post-visit conferences.

Second phase is the exchange of cultural materials: exhibits which tell of
cultural and scientific progress; books to fill purged and bomb-ravaged library
shelves. While the second phase is strictly a US-to-Germany exchange, the first
is largely a two-way affair. American leaders and experts are making increasingly
frequent lecture tours to Germany, filling the Germans in on the 12 years of
western progress in which they did not share.

When the Office of the High Commissioner, operating under the aegis of the
State Department, replaced the Office of Military Government, the magnitude of
the exchange operation had developed until it seemed both necessary and
feasible to concentrate the administration of exchanges into one office. It was
thus given divisional status under the Office of Public Affairs, which had been
charged by the High Commissioner with administering the total US Zone reorien-
tation program.

The Office of Public Affairs thereupon delegated administrative authority to the
Exchanges Division to implement the exchange phases of the reorientation pro-
gram, not only for other divisions of the Office of Public Affairs but also for
those within HICOG who have a planned program for exchanges reorientation.

(Continued on next page)

NA

SPECIAL EDITION 3 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
DUCATION AND CULTURAL RELATIONS, It is not

the purpose of HICOG to superimpose an American
system of education on the German people, but to show
them that the education of children and youths should
be so organized and developed that:

1, Each individual, irrespective of race, class, creed, or
economic status, shall have equal access to free public
education.

2. Each individual be allowed to pursue that form or
type of education for which he is endowed.

The implementation of these objectives can become
effective only to the degree by which we are able to send
German youth to America to study and observe the free
educational opportunities which an American knows as
his birth right. It means also bringing to Germany to
consult with current school leadership outstanding experts
in public education not only from the United States but
from other democratic countries of Europe. It means
further an exchange of teachers between these countries
and once more to develop a free flow of peoples and com-
munications between Germany and the outside world.
Public education represents only one phase of E&CR
activities.

Community Education, represented by youth organi-
zations, adult education and women's affairs, requires
an elaborate program of exchanges, both of persons and
materials. Leaders in all of these areas are sent to the
United States and European countries under the auspices
of the Exchanges Division. In addition, international
conferences are promoted in these areas and administered
as a part of the exchange program.

One of the largest and perhaps most important areas
of exchanges in the E&CR Division is that of the Govern-
mental Institutions Branch. To train German civil servants
for public administration, personnel administration and
general democratic orientation in civil liberties, an ex-
tensive system of exchanges has been activated. The
selection of many German public servants, politicians and
civil services workers has been made on the basis of
their ability to observe the way.a democratic society
is administered in America; they have been given
opportunity for especially arranged study in this field
in the outstanding American universities.

E&CR Division also promotes exchanges in the field of
public health and public welfare, German medical and
public health practices at one time set a standard that
was generally aspired to throughout the rest of world.
Present-day Germany presents an entirely different pic-
ture. German public health officials, physicians, nurses,
research workers, students and teachers in medical schools
and laboratories are now being sent through the Ex-
changes Division to the United States and Europe. Ex-
perts in these same categories are being brought into
Germany and cooperative health services are being
developed with other European countries. A. more com-
plete and detailed story of the activities of these Divisions
will appear in subsequent chapters of this pamphlet.

NFORMATION SERVICES. The rehabilitation and demo-
cratization of German information media represents
one of the most vital and exciting aspects of the reorien-
tation program. This division works both positively and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

negatively—negatively to prevent German government
and minority groups from dominating German information
media; positively to guide, assist, and train the people
to preserve the independence of German information
media, and see to it that accurate and fearless reporting
becomes the rule. To this end the Exchanges Division is
sending to the United States German book and periodical
editors, publishers, journalists and radio broadcasters,

Student Exchange. One area of exchanye which is the
particular responsibility of Exchanges Division itself is
the field of student exchange. Six hundred students, half
college and half high school age, shared in a general
exchange of persons last year. With stateside sponsors
— individual families in the case of high school students,
the colleges themselves as well as private organizations
in the case of university-level students — the young
people will learn new relationships betwen student and
student, teacher and pupil, new responsibility in the learn-
ing process. The ‘student exchange project has grown
from 123 students, sent in 1948, to a proposed total of
1,000 in 1950.

Over and beyond the extensive exchange program of
the Office of Public Affairs as outlined above, the Ex-
changes Division functions in the same way in connection
with all other HICOG offices which share an interest in
such reorientation operations.

The exchange of persons and materials is performed
to aid reorientation ‘in, those fields administered
by the Office of the General Counsel, Office
of Economic Affairs, Office of Labor Affairs, Office of
Political Affairs and the Office of Administration. The
primary function, then, of the Exchanges Division becomes
one of coordinating, both program and budget-wise, the
total of HICOG exchange activities. The exchange
operation, on the other hand, is but a fractional part of
the total work done by each. Yet much of the programs’
dynamism comes from exchange; the inter-relationship of
German and American ideas has given the impetus which
moves them forward.

Here are the stories of some of the exchange programs:

EGAL. ‘THE MORE we withdraw from exercising direct

powers in the field of guidance and supervision of the
German legal system, the more urgent becomes the task
of assisting the Germans in their efforts to rebuild German
legal institutions on a democratic basis," wrote an official
of the Office of the General Counsel. Heeding the obvious
fact that American legal codes could not be foisted upon
a different culture and a dissimilar administration, the
writer nonetheless pointed out that there remains a “broad
field in which we can and should perform functions in
German legal reorientation.” He listed first under
reorientation activities the exchanges program,

The legal profession, like other social groups in
Germany, absorbed the ill-effects of Germany's
isolation from the rest of the world. It was felt that even
the best of Germany's: legal minds needed to observe a
functioning legal system abroad, to be in direct contact
with legal institutions and representatives of the legal
profession in a foreign country. Under OMGUS auspices,
19 Germans — five judges, five attorneys, five law

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 8 ---
professors and four prison officials — made pioneer visits
to the United States in 1948-49.

Details of such visits, subject matter and itinerary, are
prepared, in cooperation with the Office of the General
Counsel, by a panel of experts in Washington, including
Chairman Philip W. Thayer, dean of the School of Advanced
International Studies in Washington, Justice Robert H.
Jackson and Ambassador Philip Jessup. The German
judges, attorneys and professors spend much of their time
in American law universities and bring back to other
members of their profession ideas to help revive democratic
law-administration in Germany. Plans now are to send
148 Germans to the United States during the current year,
including this time on the visitors’ roster young. law interns
(referendar) and neophyte lawyers.

As counterpart to this exodus of German, jurists, it is
intended to bring 10 visiting US experts and a smaller
number of European experts to Germany during 1950, Four
American jurists visited Germany in 1948-49 under the
aegis of OMGUS legal division, and held conferences with
or lectured to large audiences of German legal authorities
and prison officials,

OOD AND AGRICULTURE. Perhaps no other segment

of the German population is as far removed from
occupation influence as the farmers in their rural
communities. It is the task of the reorientation workers of
the Food and Agriculture Division to pervade the
consciousness of the hard-core German farmer, with demo-
cratic concepts for his organizations and new scientific
methods in his work with the soil. The objectives of these
workers are concrete; implementation of them requires
services within the exchange program. They seek to
instruct the Germans in scientific procedures which would
raise agricultural production and farm incomes, and would
break down rural proletarianism.

They seek to utilize this program of “agricultural
extension” as a major means for promoting democracy.
They aim at developing stronger agricultural colleges,
whose influence would filter down to the farm communities
themselves; to establish educational institutions for farm
women, long inarticulate; to instigate a non-political farm
youth program similar to the US 4H Clubs; to stimulate
liberal farmers’ organizations and to expand the languish-
ing program of agricultural research. These objectives
Tepresent a major overhaul of farm economy and farmer
organization: during the years of Nazism the entire farm
program was harnessed to party objectives; personal
freedom and scientific advance were stifled in their
natural growth.

To break down the barriers that still retard the farmers’
progress along these lines, an extensive program of
exchange has been initiated. A cross-section of farmer and
farm women leaders, together with scientists and farm
laymen, have been assisted to visit the United States. Their
host organizations in the United States meted out extensive
Opportunity to view modern farm techniques, home
economy measures, free farm organizations in action, and
the relation of the agricultural college to the farm
community. Upon the return of these visitors, their findings

SPECIAL EDITION

Forty-one German students arrive at Frankfurt en route
to the United ‘States where they will attend school and
work on farms for one year under the sponsorship of
the Brethren Service Commission in cooperation with the
Food and Agricultural Division and the Exchange Division
of HICOG, .

are given hundreds of outlets in the press, on the radio
and in discussions. Furthermore, most of the experts work
directly in government, farmer organizations, cooperatives,
schools and universities — places where they have
maximum opportunity to widely disseminate whatever of
value they have learned.

ESIDES THE EXPERTS, another, younger category of

farm Germans is making the trips Statesward. These
are the 16- to 19-year-olds, who as students are sent
directly to US farm homes to live with farmers and
participate in the normal community life and school
activities there. A smaller group of college students are
assisted to attend agricultural college in the United States
for varying periods.

What is classified as ‘trainee exchange" allows a number
of young men and women 21 to 30 years of age to work
and train in US factories and in farms and offices for two
years. Theirs will be the influence not only of skilled
technicians, but of persons who have participated directly
in the community life of the US farm.

With each returning corps of these farm visitors have
come literally tons of bulletins and publications, a flow
of literature which the division is attempting to supplement
with current publications, both technical and cultural,
relating to the field of agriculture and home economics,
Wide circulation of these publications is effected.

ABOR. BECAUSE of the strength and the strategic

importance of the trade unions in this highly
industrialized country, they are bound to remain the
battleground for clashing ideologies. For this reason, the
Office of Labor Affairs has scrupulously detailed a program
of reorientation to consolidate union strength, to develop
industrial relations practices based on the give-and-take
of collective bargaining, and to take an increasing interest
in the problems of. German economic and_ political
reconstruction. Twelve specific projects during the current

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
fiscal year are designed to accomplish these objectives,
namely: r

1, To foster the study of representative industrial
communities with reference to work and the role of
workers’ organizations. Germans, with American advisers,
are conducting a “Middletown” type of survey in a typical
community on a constantly expanding scale.

2. To assist and advise in the organization and
administration of German trade unions and in orienting
the trade unions to the social and economic postwar
recovery problems of Germany.

3. To develop democratic and effective standards and
methods of collective negotiation between employers and
trade unions, and to encourage a wider use of voluntary
conciliation and arbitration.

4, To assist and advise in the organization and operation
of German public agencies in the labor field and in the
establishment of democratic service to the public.

5. To assist and advise German trade unions and
management in the general field of occupational training
and worker education for trade union service and
leadership.

6. To assist German labor administrations, trade unions
and employer associations in the improvement of statistical
practices in the labor field and to make effective use of
statistics and fact-finding methods in the utilization of the
labor force and for related purposes.

7. To carry on in Germany certain work activities relative
to occupational training and workers’ education in support
of the objectives outlined in No. 5.

8. To conduct an institute for young trade unionists in
the problems and the place of German trade unions in
postwar recovery.

9, To conduct an institute for young trade unionists on
the relationships of labor and management.

Radio broadcasting is one of many fields in which an
exchange program is maintained. Here six broadcasters
connected with leading German radio stations board the
New York-bound plane at Rhine-Main Air Base, headed
for study courses at Columbia University and tours of

big Stateside stations. (DENA photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German budget experts receive briefing prior to their
departure for study in the United States. This group was
among the first of 700 experts in various fields who were
sent to study western advancements and the application

of democracy in public and business life. (US Army photo)
10. To operate a training-within-industry and industrial
relations work center.

11. To conduct a demonstration trade union school for
young trade union functionaries with emphasis on the
democratic phases of trade union organization and
operation,

12, To purchase books and periodicals for trade unions,
management groups and German labor agencies,

Ow IS SUCH a broad program carried out? Almost in

its entirety with the help of the exchanges service.
Projects 2 through 7 involve the exchange of persons:
German experts or trainees or leaders in each project
make “apprentice” tours of American facilities; American
erperts and leaders come to Germany to give advice and
aid in the same fields. The projects listed under Nos. 8, 9
and 11 utilize visiting experts or labor representatives
from.America and other European countries. The remainder
are supplementary and follow-up schemes giving bulk to
the program's operation.

Tha labor program gives a Clear and typical example
of the voluntary US assistance which adds vigor and
inspiration to the exchange operation in all fields, The
AFL and the CIO have full-time representatives in Europe,
who give much of their time to working with the German
trade unions toward objectives which complement those
of HICOG., In addition, British, US and western European
trade union committees and delegations come to Germany
to assist in establishing effective organizations which are
able to withstand totalitarian infiltrations,

The US trade unions, further, have made substantial
contributions in office equipment and food. Both labor
and management organizations in the States have received
groups of Germans and have made certain that these
groups received full value out of their visits. Research
materials and publications have been made available at
no charge by unions, management and universities to take
a major part in the materials exchange facet of the
program.

Selection of the personnel to take part in all the various
compartments of the exchange program is rigorously

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 10 ---
democratic. All possible pub-
licity outlets are utilized to
inform the German popula-
tion of those opportunities
for which they are eligible.
Once application is made, the
US Resident Officers in each
county make supplementary
investigations of the candi-
dates, German panels take
part in the screening of appli-
cants before final okay is
given by the HICOG head-
quarters initiating the project.

The Exchanges Division
maintains. an‘inside-Germany
conference schedule, where
Germans and Americans to-
gether ponder the problems
of materials distribution,
evaluate the effectiveness of
the reorientation programs,
lay the instructive ground-
work for full appreciation of
forthcoming trips to the
United States, and help to
articulate with returnees the
benefits they have derived from their tours abroad.

mental practices in

Another word on the less-complex materials exchange
program, which reinforces and extends the influence of the
exchange-of-persons program. The materials exchange and
exhibition program was developed to bring educational
and cultural institutions in Germany into contact with
parallel institutions in the United States and other west
democratic nations.

DELUGE OF BOOKS, magazines, technical and scientific

periodicals for libraries of all types is brought into
Germany at transportation cost by government shipping
lines. These books have for the most part been donated by
private institutions and individuals in the United States for
the cultural rehabilitation of Germany. Some divisions,
however, maintain book purchasing programs. Book distri-
bution to those areas and institutions most in need is
effected by the Exchanges Division with the advice of
American and German consultants.

The books go to Education Service Centers and US
Information Centers, to individual German professors, to
schools and public libraries, to medical and scientific
associations and, when requested, to the British and French
Zones, The books have stimulated many a young German
to learn or practice English. They have provided the
encouragement needed to establish comfortable reading
rooms in a number of German communities. To prompt
donation of more books, the Exchanges Division has
furnished the United States and other foreign countries a
comprehensive list of libraries actually functioning in
Germany today, where the thought for donation may be
animated by suggesting the recipients and their needs.

SPECIAL EDITION

the national capital.
medical, social welfare, economics and education special-
ists were all aboard the same ship as exchange students
under auspices of the Exchanges Division.

The exhibition program, a
second prong in the materials
exchange offensive, was de-
signed to provide US Informa-
tion Centers and other cul-
tural agencies with informa-
tion about the United States,
its people, customs, institu-
tions and achievements via
displays, pictures, diagrams
and charts. For example, a
$40,000 architectural exhibit
by Frank Lloyd Wright, being
constructed by Gimbel Stores
in the United States, is sche-
duled to be shipped during
1950 for a tour of Germany.

HIS LONG-ARMED and

all-inclusive program
launched by the Exchanges
Division has not been bar-
ren of reward. Proof that it
is welcomed may be found
in the readiness of Germans
to amplify wherever possible
the program as it stands,
Proof that it is making head-
way is likewise contained in the German willingness to
take on much of the responsibility in its administration and
facilitation, Praise for the projects from high German
Officials as well as young students who have participated
has been lavishly, publicly and gratefully extended.

Six Bremen civil affairs authorities sail from Bremer-
haven to the United States to study at first-hand govern-

Government,

(US Army photo)

It was found, for example, that many of those who had
visited America under the auspices of the Office of Labor
Affairs have given generously of their time and energies in
speaking before labor groups within Germany since their
return. No prodding was done by US personnel to encourage
such lectures; neither were the large German audiences
who attended requested to do so, Trade unions, employer
organizations and labor agencies demonstrated their
eagerness to join the program by making arrangements
both physically and financially for the absence of a worker
from his job while on tour. Parallel efforts have been made
in other fields — monumental contributions of time and
money have been forthcoming from German farmers, farm
women and officialdom to boost the farm reorientation
program.

Returnees have voluntarily called to express their
appreciation; they have written letters and reports. If one
generalization can be drawn from the comments of these
returnees, the outstanding impression visitors have is of
the American spirit of cooperation and kindliness towards
one another. One of the German educators remarked at a
conference, “In America there has been developed the art
of living together... and how together to do things.” He
explained that he had heard theories, Greek and Roman
ideals of life in a free society which he had considered
Utopian dreams, only to find that such dreams are reality
in the United States; he is convinced “it is possible

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
through broadened education to change mind and social
attitude of a people”.

MUSIC CRITIC wrote upon return: "I left this beautiful

country a champion of its way of life, an admirer of its
youth, and a man enriched intellectually and artistically,”
commenting that he “was deeply impressed by the
artistical and technical standards of musical activities in
the United States," particularly symphony; European
opera he considers superior.

A German student wrote from the United States to one
of her German friends that “Now, finally I am in the
United States and all I can say I am very enthusiastic
about it and take everything back, what I have said
wtihout knowing the country.” Among her findings was
that “It is not true at all, what we hear so often in Ger-
many, that all those that emigrated earlier want to return.
I talked to several persons in the German Club in
Washington and nobody is ever thinking to return to the
old Europe.”

A group of prison officials returned "full of enthusiasm
and with knowledge" but admitted that effecting new
ideas may be a slow process in Germany because “changes
here come about slowly. We in Europe have many obstacles
of thinking, many things that we should overcome
and that are done better in the United States,” adding,
“There are also things to learn from Europe.”

Another German educator, writing from the States,
reported on American nationalism: “If this pride of the
American in his country, its wealth, power, technical
achievements, its freedom and willingness to fight for all
this, is to be called nationalism, then it is a peculiar type

of nationalism. This American nationalism has social and
tolerant features which result from the big melting
process of Americanization whereby a variety of races,
peopies and religions have to be welded together into
one nation with common thoughts and feelings... For the
first, this feature is confined to the national scene.
However, children are early taught to look beyond
national borders at overseas peoples who have also to
be respected as human beings like the Americans
themselves.”

Another university student wrote from the United
States: “This idea I want to stress and emphasize over
and over again in my work in Germany, and wherever I
will be in Germany—that we have to respect people of
other countries and we must try to understand them and
even though their customs are much different than we are
used to...”

These are words from the people on the program; these
are the words—samples of them—which give us hope.
There have been isolated instances of tangible results,
small changes here and there, which indicate that to a
few “freedom” and “democracy” are beginning to have
meaning. But we can’t yet claim that we have achieved
definite results; we are making a small beginning and it
will take patience, it will take effort, it will take money,
and it will take years to come, but these words and our
ideals encourage us to continue.

This US-to-Germany bridge, then, is more than an
illusory reference. Day by day it is being reinforced as
more and more German and American citizens make
passage across it. And month by month the crowds of
those anxious to cross are growing. + END

Germans en route to the United States line the rail of an Army transport as they sail from the Bremerhaven Port of
Embarkation. Forty-six Germans, the largest single group, were to remain from 60 to 90 days to study government,

education, economics, social welfare and medicine.

Bia!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Sent under Exchanges Division supervision, they were spon-
sored by various American institutions and agencies on an exchange student basis.
their fields, all were to work with American experts in parallel fields,

Accomplished specialists in
(US Army photo)

es

.
|
B

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 12 ---
SSAA

Edueation and -
Cultural Relations Division

ERMANY IS a land suffering not only from the devastating aftermath

of a total war, but from the disillusionment of following false leaders

and embracing a cruel doctrine which betrayed its own followers within

Germany as well as its victims in other lands. The war aim of the United

States and her Western allies is reorientation. The long-range goal of this

policy has been to restore an intellectual, spiritual and cultural life based

on the principles of freedom, social justice, brotherhood and individual
responsibility for matters of public concern. i

Rooted in these principles and in implementation of the established
policy, five broad objectives have developed'namely:

1. To increase respect for the dignity and rights of the individual,
deference to personal convictions of others, to minority opinions, free-
dom of thought and expression, and liberal social attitudes.

2. To educate for representative and responsible self-government by
fostering the untrammeled pursuit of truth as a prerequisite for the main-
tenance of justice, by arousing a sense of personal responsibility for
social and political affairs, and by encouraging recognition that public
officials are servants of the people.

3. To foster the idea that all persons, irrespective of race, sex or belief,
should share in the rights and benefits of government, of community life,
and of an equitable social order.

4. To increase respect for international peace and cooperation and for
cultural attainments of other nations, by stimulating free communication
among individuals, groups and nations as a necessary condition for
national and international understanding, and by encouraging the
Germans to view and develop their own culture as an integral part of
the culture of western civilization.

5. To aid the German people in their own efforts to readjust, reorganize
and redirect their own social institutions.

There is evidence of progress in the attainment of these objectives.
Their ultimate realization depends upon positive cultural impact through
consultation and cooperation with established German agencies in the
fields of formal education, community organization, cultural affairs and
religious affairs. +END

ul Tc

SPECIAL EDITION 9 INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 13 ---
HERSPELD

@ MARBURG Sata

asre.o caurenascn

weran GIESSEN cavoacn

BERLIN T7EMPELHOF
STEGLITZ
ZEHLENOORF
RUDOW
FRANKFURT memcu

enveceenay

i ates eacew
ASCHAEFENURG races

oc ee @BAMBE!

oWURZBURG

MAAK MOE NEL Ser ED
rz0eN

rupee
Perea sOovseNruRT

BAD. wensenr.

or rune say
ls
agen ome. sas
‘cHEILBRONN chloe

ancINANG

ee nce
oSTUTTGART oo

MuCRTINGEN a,

US Information Centers and Reading Rooms

INFORMATION BULLETIN 10 SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 14 ---
US Information Centers

HE END of hostilities in 1945 revealed an urgency of
providing positive counter-action to more than a
decade of censored press, book-burning and insidious pro-
paganda. Private initative started a “Window to the West”
library at the University of Marburg. SHAEF’S Psycho-
logical Warfare Branch experimented with a reading room
in Bad Homburg for a restricted group of German readers.
The success of these two undertakings gave impetus to
the official sanctioning of an extensive Information Center
program as part of the Military Government mission in
Germany.

The Bad Homburg reading room was moved to Frankfurt
in 1945 and became the first US Information Center in the
American zone. Today there are 25 Information Centers,
each operated by an American director, They are located
in the key cities of the US Zone and the US Sector
of Berlin. ‘

Known to the Germans as Amerika Haeuser, the Centers
have grown into recognized institutions in the cities of
Munich, Stuttgart, Bremen and Wiesbaden, state capitals
respectively of Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden, Bremen
and Hesse; in the American headquarters city of Frank-
furt, in the university towns of Marburg, Wuerzburg and
Erlangen. In historic Heidelberg a local store acknowledges
the Information Center as a well-known landmark by
advertising the fact that it is located “right next to the
Amerika Haus.”

Information Centers have been established in the
religious centers of Bamberg and Fulda, where theological
colleges are located, There are Amerika Haeuser in the
industrial cities of Augsburg, Nuremberg, Giessen, Darm-
stadt, Kassel, Mannheim, Heilbronn and Ulm. There is
also a center in Coburg, eastern outpost close to the
Soviet border; one in Regensburg, historical crossroad of
eastern and western influence; and one in Bremerhaven,
the only seaport in the American zone. Berlin has two
centers,

N ADDITION to the full-sized Amerika Haeuser there

are 122 reading rooms strategically established in the
major rural communities throughout the American occu-
pation zone. While the Information Center libraries
average 18,000 to 28,000 books, the reading rooms have
collections of 2,500 to 4,500, and are counterparts of
American branch libraries. Besides books there are sub-
scriptions numbering 550 American magazines and news-
papers.

The total attendance for 1948 was more than 3,700,000
and jumped to more than 4,150,000 in the first six months
of 1949 alone. Book circulation soared from 1,180,000 in
1948 to an annual rate of some 1,660,000 in the first
half of 1949,

It is not infrequent that a new German reader complains
to the librarian of his local Amerika Haus that he “cannot

SPECIAL EDITION

find the truth when American books present such
divergent opinions on one and the same subject.” For
many years the Germans had been compelled to accept
ready-made answers. Now they must learn to depend on
their judgment and take responsibility for their opinions
and actions.

The Information Centers seek to guide and assist the
Germans in this new adventure in thinking. Patterned
after the American community library, and the US In-
formation and Educational (USIE) programs in other
countries, their program includes lectures, concerts, dis-
cussion groups, conversation classes, documentary film
showings, exhibitions and related activities,

The library is the starting point, the basic tool for. the
accomplishment of the Information Center's mission.
Along with the indispensable reference works such as
encyclopedias, dictionaries and indexes it holds a large
representative collection of books on American and world
culture. <

Illustrating the great popularity enjoyed by the Information
Center in Regensburg is the fact that for the second time
within two years the institution had outgrown its quarters
and now is located in the large, newly-renovated building
(above) which was opened in a widely-attended formal
ceremony in the Center's new quarters April 8, 1949,

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 15 ---
Supplemented by a com-
prehensive selection of the
best in American fiction this
material presents attrac-
tively a diversified picture
of American _ traditions,
customs and way of life.
The American Haus library
attempts to bridge the 12-
year gap of the Hitler
regime by offering books
banned during that period
and books that allow the
German reader to re-establish
contact with the cultural,
political and social devel-
opments of the outside
world.

To make American litera-
ture available to those Ger-
mans who do not master

Front view of the new Amerika Haus at 5 Oberer Louisen
Park in Mannheim, US Zone. This was the first of several
such removals and major improvements carried out by US

Following the example of,
the American community
library .and | USIE,- America’
Houses exert every effort to
make their material avail-
able to all civic, social and
cultural organizations in
their communities, Most
centers send out specialized
bibliographies to doctors,
housing officials and others.
Press archives offer in-
teresting newspaper articles
and background material for
publishers and editors. In
some centers translators
are advised on American
book rights.

A collection of scientific,
historical and literary works

English, worthwhile German
translations are purchased in
Switzerland, Sweden, Holland and Germany. These books,
constituting some 20 percent of the total library stock, are
eagerly sought by readers. University professors and
students, writers and journalists in need of materials for
lectures, studies or articles frequently appeal to the
libraries for help, rarely in vain, The centers furnish ad-
visory service to the reader who comes with a difficult
probiem and offer card catalogues for systematic research
work,

HE GERMAN librarians have been shown the What-

can-I-do-to-help-you? approach instead of the tra-
ditional brusque What-do-you-want-and-why? Thus the
reader is guided through his first experience with demo-
cracy in the library: the open shelf system. Confronted
with a new wealth of information and opinions, he is
encouraged to make up his own mind and select his own
course of action.

Information Centers during 1949.

was lent to the Public Scien-
tific Library in Berlin, The
Physical Institute of Erlangen University received the
long-term loan of scientific publications, Several collections
of books were assembled for use in English seminars of
various universities, all of which were handicapped by a
critical shortage of such material. The Technical Institute
of Karlsruhe, in setting up its new Department of Opinion
Survey, received valuable assistance from the Information
Center in that city.

Many industrial firms have been supplied with docu-
mentation on questions affecting management and labor.
Such requests now are being received and handled in
steadily increasing numbers. The loan of musical scores
of American compositions to the famous Boy's Choir of
Regensburg was appreciated by the conductor and its
young members.

(US Army photo)

To reach the small rural communities, several Information
Centers are using bookmobiles equipped with small

Left, the large reading room of the American Library opened in Piorzheim, Wuerttemberg-Baden, last May. Very
comfortable and well-lighted, with trained librarians offering a welcome and whole-hearted assistance, it is visited daily
by a steady stream of book lovers. Right, two well-stocked rooms of the library in the Amerika Haus in Nuremberg.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 16 ---
Among the most ardent book-lovers in the world, Germans
of all ages unfailingly throng the libraries of Information
Centers ihroughout the US Zone and the American sector
of Berlin. Top, a typically busy day in the Information.

Center library in
discussion group in

Giessen. Lower
Information Center,

photo, informal
Nuremberg.

libraries, magazine collections, newspapers and visual
material.

Amerika Haus activities are conceived as an exploitation
of, and complement to, the reading materials: books,
magazines, newspapers, musical scores, pamphlets, etc.
American and Allied experts, as well as German speakers
who have made sponsored visits to the United States,
lecture regularly and lead discussions on a wide range
of subjects. They are chosen to acquaint Germans with
democratic traditions and achievements in the Western
world and to inform them on American life and
aspirations.

MERICANS STATIONED in Germany address meetings
on economic and political questions, modern trends
in industrial management, labor questions and many
others. Discussion groups have been organized where
Americans and Germans can exchange points of view.
These as well as public forums and round table confer-

Children’s rooms in the Information Centers likewise have
their big followings, Picture shows section of group of
kiddies who filled children's library in the Information
Center in the city of Bremen only a few hours after its
opening on a warm summer's day last year. Trained
nurse-librarians are on duty. (Photo by G. Schmidt)

SPECIAL EDITION

ences contribute to the development of the democratic
conception of free speech and respect for divergent
opinions,

Concerts by prominent artists and record concerts, along
with American art exhibits, are aimed at destroying the
German preconception of the United States as a country
without art or culture—the fallacy which was created
and carefully nurtured by the Goebbels propaganda
machine.

Lectures illustrated by films are popular among German
audiences and the Centers make extensive use of the
motion picture as part of their audi-visual program, The
exhibition work has included displays on the Marshall
Plan, American elections, farming in the United States,
new developments in medicine, American landscapes, etc.

The Iniormation Centers see an important challenge in
the promotion of programs for young people and the
encouragement of youth discussion groups through the
use of the chiidren's library. All the larger Centers have
their children's rooms, film performances for children,
children’s hours and special meetings for parents.

English conversation classes for children and adults
have been established along with “Bookworm Clubs”
and playreading groups in order to develop and
encourage proper understanding of the English language
and of the materials available at the Centers, Several
Amerika Haeuser have attic stages and amateur theater
youth groups to familiarize Germans with the con-
temporary American and European theater and to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
This Braille library, the first such opened in Bavaria in
postwar years, was established by the Information Center
in Munich on May 2, 1949, Picture shows one of the first
blind men to visit the establishment reading a Braille
book in the new library while a German librarian looks on.

demonstrate the use of dramatics as a powerful educational
instrument—a concept entirely new in Germany.

ANY CIVIC SERVICES are rendered by the In-

formation Centers in a constant effort to integrate
their activities with the interests of the German commu-
nity, Some of the many instances:

In a university town a student employment office was
established to help students overcome their financial
difficulties through parttime work as baby-sitters, window
washers, etc.

An Amerika Haus collected medical supplies to assist
the victims of an industrial disaster in a neighboring
community.

Another Cefter supplied a large distant displaced-
persons university with transportation to and from the
Center so that the library could be consulted by destitute
students,

As the program of the Information Centers grew it
became necessary to consolidate the distribution of
the ever increasing stream of materials. The thousands
of books and magazines, the many recordings, the visual
material pouring in every month could no longer be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

channeled without orderly distribution. A Central Distri-
bution Section was set up in Frankfurt whose function it
is to receive, sort out, catalog and classify all materials
received from the procuring agencies in the United States
as well as from private and non-profit organizations.

To insure uniform administration, supervision of and
guidance on programming, and overall direction of US
Information Center operations in Germany, a servicing
agency composed of nine Americans and 25 Germans was
set up at HICOG Headquarters this year. This staff
advises, aids and supplies the 28 Americans and more
than 1,100 Germans who are responsible for the day-by-
day operation of the Information Centers and Reading
Rooms,

A library school has been established in the Erlangen
Amerika Haus which will permit thorough training and
schooling of the German librarians employed by the
Centers throughout Germany, Thus the best American
library practices can be firmly established in the America
Houses as a service to the readers and an example for
German public libraries and their employees.

In this connection it is significant to note that the
younger generation of librarians raised a cry for the
introduction of the open shelf system in Germany at the
recently held first meeting of the German Librarians’
Association. The Amerika Haeuser were cited repeatedly
as the example to follow.

HE INFORMATION CENTERS’ budget for the fiscal

year 1950 provides for the expansion of the program
into the other zones of western Germany in line with the
establishment of the German federal government at Bonn
and the transition from Military Government to the Office
of the High Commissioner.

Present plans call for the opening of a large Amerika
Haus in Hanover where a building has been placed at
the disposal of HICOG by the British Information Services
Division,

A Center is also being planned now for Essen as the
Ruhr industrial area is a strategic spot for the dissemination
of the American message and particularly of a true
picture of the achievements in Germany of the European
Recovery Administration. In view of the exclusively
industrial public this Center should contain a particularly
good collection of German language books and a well
stocked magazine reading room. A director will be chosen
who is familiar with American trade unions and labor
problems,

As the seat of the German government, Bonn, on the
other hand, requires an Amerika Haus library specializing
in national and international legislation, comparative
government, American economics and a sound selection
of Americana. The three planned Centers in Hanover,
Bonn and Essen would, with the presently existing large
reading room in Hamburg, constitute the US Information
Center effort in the British Zone. A Center in Baden-Baden
or Coblenz, concentrating on a more cultural program,
will be established in the French Zone along with
10 reading rooms to be located in university towns and
important cultural centers. -++END

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 18 ---
Theater and Music

HE THEATER and music activities of the Education and

Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, have three main objectives behind the various
projects which are being currently undertaken by the
branch.

The specific purposes are to help German musical and
theatrical life to revert to the critical standards, breadth
of open-mindedness and democratic spirit with which it
was once imbued.

In accomplishing these targets it is primarily necessary
to eradicate the false ideas concerning other countries—
especially America—which were deeply instilled into the
public mind under the Nazis; develop a more inter-
national viewpoint; raise the standards of judgment and
encourage greater self-criticism, thereby lessening the
nationalistic and superior attitude toward purely German
works.

Four continuing projects of the Theater and Music
Section have been devised for implementing its program
and accomplishing its mission. These four consist of the
Exchange Program, the US Visiting Artist Program, Grants
and Aids, and the US Play Agency and Music Library.
Each of these diversified projects already has proven its
worth in providing a steady flow of new ideas and

stimulation into Germany from the outside world and in
chipping the Goebbels-applied enamel of self-satisfaction,
The overall Exchange Program embraces a plan by
which leading representatives in German theater and
music activities may go to America for first hand study
and observation of developments in their field and return
with a greater knowledge and understanding to the task
of improving and liberalizing these activities within
Germany. The plan similarly calls for bringing in experts
from the United States and European countries to address
and consult German groups to stimulate more enlightened
activity.
HIS PROJECT has already borne fruit as evidenced
by the reaction of five German specialists in the
music and theater fields who spent a 90-day period in
the United States under the plan. Of the five, a leading
theater critic and a leading music critic from the Berlin
Die Neue Zeitung have both written numerous articles
on their experiences pointing up the standard of
accomplishments in America and constructively con-
trasting these standards with the situation in Germany,
Two of the other experts have lectured in most of the
25 America Houses in the US Zone and in most cases
have met with warm response and interested queries

The stages of Germany contain today the unfolding drama of culture from across Germany's borders, Visiting artists
trom the US — actors, singers, musicians — are making inroads into the Germans‘ fostered contempt for America’s
younger culture, They likewise introduce an approach to theatrical presentation that is unfettered by propaganda.
Germans below watch noted US violinist Patricia Travers on the stage of Augsburg's beautiful Schaetzler Palais.

SPECIAL EDITION

15

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
One of the most successful of the company shows which has toured the US Zone of Germany was the Howard Uni-
versity Player's production of “Mamba's Daughters." This amateur group came to Germany under the auspices of EUCOM
Special Services and the Office of Public Affairs after a tour through Norway, Sweden and Denmark. They are shown
in pictures above in an on-stage pose during one of their performances, and, right, as they boarded plane at Rhine-Main

for return to the United States.

from their audiences. The fifth expert, a theater producer,
acquired an intense interest in American plays and
methods of production as well as in the use of drama
in education.

Considerable interest also has been aroused throughout
the US Zone by visiting American and European experts
in theater and music who have spoken to university and
professional groups and America House audiences.

Among the American theater experts who visited
Germany during the past year were Rosamund Gilder,
Eric Bentley, Mordecai Gorelik, Campton Bell, and
Thornton Wilder. In the field of music, the outstanding
visitor, who combined lecturing with conducting, was
Paul Hindemith. In addition, qualified American personnel
in Germany give lectures on American music and theater
subjects as part of the America House programs. Ameri-
can plays are often read aloud and in some cases per-
formed, and concerts of American music on records are
given every week.

The US Visiting Artist Program was made possible
through the cooperation of a non-governmental agency
and the American occupation authorities. The US agency
supplies funds to pay the travel expenses of top-ranking
American artists to Germany and living expenses while
in the country. HICOG supplies travel and billeting for
the visiting personnel while they are in Germany.

The program's success to date in contributing to the
general goals of the Branch has been unquestionable.
Such outstanding artists as Patricia Travers, Ralph Kirk-
patrick, Yehudi Menuhin, the Walden String Quartet, Mack
Harrell and the Yale Glee Club have made a strikingly
positive impression upon both the German press and
public. The program is helping in giving the Germans a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

This group represents one facet of the Theater and Music Sections extensive pro-
gram to liberate the German theater from state-constructed standards.

(PRD, HICOG photos)

fuller picture of American achievement in cultural fields
and dispelling the idea that the United States excels only
in mass production but is a culturally negative nation.

rJ\HE GRANTS AND AIDS Program is a plan for support

of a number of German projects in the theater and
music fields such as the presentation of a special series
of contemporary music concerts for German students,
university theater workshops, experimental. theaters,
youth orchestras and music schools.

In the development of university theater workshops,
for example, a conference was held at Erlangen in July
1949, attended by university theater groups from several
German universities, from the Sorbonne, and from
Vienna, Student performances, lectures and discussion
groups were held each day throughout a week. In the
fall, the Howard University Players of Washington D. C.
gave performances of the negro folk-play ‘Mamba's
Daughters" in Berlin, Frankfurt, Munich, Kitzingen, and
Mannheim under the joint auspices of Army Special
Services and E and CR Division, HICOG. German uni-
versity students were given special invitations to attend.

In most cases emphasis is on giving assistance to
German youth and in supporting progressive undertakings
which will speed up the process of reeducation and
acquaint Germans in these fields with accomplishments
in other countries during the years of German isolation,
To some extent the German ministries of culture also are
contributing support to the program and there are definite
indications that additional financial support may be re-
ceived from German sources.

The US Play Agency and Music Library is a twofoid
program for which Deutsche mark funds are required for

(Continued on page 34)

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 20 ---
ZUNE RQ

Edueation

PROMINENT GERMAN educator recently said, ‘Give me six months and enough

authority, and I will enforce democracy in all of westernGermany.”’ This remark
illustrates the problem confronting HICOG’'s educational specialists who are advising
and assisting in creating a voluntarily-accepted democracy, decentralizing authority
and developing a liberal educational system.

An ideal democracy displays a consciousness of the dignity of the individual, a
regard for his rights and opinions, a competence in group deliberation, group
action, and an overwhelming confidence in the ability of the group to arrive ata
decision of policy or action superior in wisdom, prudence and knowledge to that
which any individual in the group could, unaided, have achieved.

Democracy when viewed on the level of the state must also display this same
regard for the rights and opinions of others, this same technique of carrying problems
to the people and letting them by group discussion and action solve them. This
same confidence is the ability of the citizens of a nation deliberating and acting
together wisely to determine the destiny of the nation and its policy and program
of action within the family of nations.

A democratic system of education must teach the principles of democracy and
must allow sufficient opportunity for practice in the ways of democracy. This
cannot be achieved by courses in social science alone, or any other academic
presentation of the theory of democracy. The entire school environment must be
adapted to the end of making pupils feel the need for democracy. They must want
it to work and have confidence that it can work; they must see in it the most
dignified form of government yet devised by men. They must know its dangers,
appreciate its obligations and be willing to pay the price in willingness to deliberate
on social problems and cooperate in social action.

IHE IMPLICATIONS for the democratization of the German school system are

clear. It_ cannot be imposed..It must Come as a result of a conviction of need
and confidence in the efficiency of democracy. It must be accepted by a majority
of the population. It must be achieved slowly, no faster than the population is able
and willing to go. Each step must be an educational step. The winning of each
new convert to democracy becomes a study in the psychology of persuasion.
“Learning situations’ must be created, and a wide variety of techniques must be
tried.

Out of this experimentation and experience in the art of persuasion it becomes
eventually possible to identify certain critical areas as being the best opportunities
for making an impact. These critical areas form the basis for a program. Some of
the characteristics of educational reorientation in Germany are illustrated on the
following pages in the typical examples of how the program is being implemented.

+END

al 0

SPECIAL EDITION 17 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Democratization of School System

ERHAPS NO FEATURE of German education is so

strikingly undemocratic as the two-track school
system. All children are together for the first four years.
At the close of the fourth year those who are to go on to
higher education are selected for admission to the higher
schools and begin work in an eight or nine-year program
leading to university entrance. Of the 20 percent who
enter this program, three-fourths are eliminated by high
academic standards and other reasons before graduation.
The other 80 percent continue in the elementary school,
the Volksschule (people's school), to the end of the
eighth year after which they become apprentices in what-
ever vocational field may be open to them. Part-time
schooling averaging five hours a week for two to four
years completes their school experience.

The selection of youngsters who are to go on into the
higher schools at the early age of 12, the’ charging of
tuition in the higher schools and wide differences in the
preparation of teachers in favor of the academic elite are
all contrary to democracy in education.

Liberal leaders in German education have opposed all
of these non-democratic practices but have never been
strong enough to break down the aristocratic traditions
which dominate German education. With the support of
America, these liberal German educators, whose numbers
have been greatly increased as a result of the work of the
American education personnel and the cultural exchanges
program, have come into a position of educational leader-
ship.

HE UNITED STATES education staffs in the Laender
(states) are using different approaches to the solution
of the problem. In Hesse a Schulbeirat was organized, It
is a commission of German educators working as a liaison
group between the Ministry of Culture and the United
States education staffs. In Wuerttemberg-Baden work is

done directly with the Minister of Culture and his staff.

In Bavaria an especially interesting procedure was
devised, a more complete account of which may serve to
highlight the effort. In March 1948, through the efforts of
American education personnel in cooperation with the
Bavarian Ministry of Education, a planning commission or
Direktorium was set up for Bavaria to propose an organiza-
tion and program for school reform. A full-time school
planning committee of four leading Bavarian educators
was appointed to direct the work. An autonomous founda-
tion supported both by American and German funds was
set up to carry on the program.

An unoccupied mansion, Schloss Wallenburg, was leased
as a school reform headquarters, Teachers and administra-
tors were brought in from all over Bavaria to work on
committees with their salaries continued by the state and
substitutes provided to carry on their work, Ais many as 50
teachers and administrators were housed at Schloss Wallen-
burg at one time, working on school reform planning.

By February 1949, the final reports of all committees were
completed and transmitted to the Ministry of Education,
where they were drafted into basic school legislation for
submission to the Landiag (state council). These reform
proposals which grew out of the cooperative efforts of
hundreds of Bavarian educators and American education
personnel have been described as being “as significant for
Bavarian education as the Education Act of 1944 is for the
reform of education in England.”

HE COST of this program, which could be computed

in terms of ‘salaries of American education personnel,
visiting American experts and grants to the foundation
would be amazingly small in comparison with the results
which have been achieved in Bavaria. Its ramifications are
unpredictable and varied. Every step in persuading the
German educators to change has to be an educational

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Teachers hold group discussions on the problem of school reform in their districts: At left, Bavarian educators listen
to an elderly adviser and at right, gather out-of-door to discuss new methods.

(Photos by Duhnkrack)

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 22 ---
Teachers and school administrators become students themselves in library of Kempfenhausen workshop, (Photos by Duhnkrack)

step. The Germans themselves must understand and be
convinced of what is done. Plans must be fluid, and they
often develop along dramatic lines.

In Bavaria in the late fall of 1948 the planning com-
mission or Direktorium decided to test its proposed
changes on a large scale, After much discussion they chose
Kreis (county) Weilheim as a demonstration area. It is not
far from Munich and is typical of the situation found
throughout most of Bavaria in that it encompasses the
principal types of schools, is predominantly rural but has
one medium-sized manufacturing center and has teachers
and school administrators sympathetic to the new program.

A curriculum workshop was established at Kempfen-
hausen Villa on the shores of Starnberg Lake, This work-
shop was the successor of Schloss Wallenburg, where the
early planning had been done, During the spring and sum-
mer of 1949 all the teachers and school administrators of
the Kreis were brought in groups of 20 to 30 persons to

Kempfenhausen Villa for week-long discussion periods on
the basic principles of the proposed school reform, From
these groups consultants were chosen to work more inten-
sively on specific problems and to be trained as local super-
visors of classrooms,

INCE THE opening of schools last autumn, the teachers

in the Kreis have made adjustments in curriculum and
methods, and their specially trained supervisors continue
to lead discussions and examine the progress in the local
communities of the Kreis.

In other areas of Bavaria another approach was used.
It was aimed at increasing the participation of the public
in the work of the schools. Germans in general show little
concern for the schools. They leave them pretty much to
the Kultusminister and his staff. Consequently, special
techniques and a great amount of field work are required
to prepare communities for assuming any degree of re-
sponsibility. -+END

Scenes in the dining-room and one of the dormitories of the Kemptenhausen Curriculum Workshop for German teachers.

SPECIAL EDITION

19

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
School Housing

RECENT SURVEY of the school housing situation in

the American zone disclosed that although 41,469
public school classrooms are now in use, there is need
for 29,300 additional classrooms. This situation, caused by
neglect and war destruction, not only must be soon
remedied if the youthful generation attending public
school is to have a decent opportunity to share in a free
and democratic future, but also affords an excellent
opportunity to demonstrate how sociological problems of
this character can be resolved under democratic pro-
cedures. Accordingly, an American school building specialist
was invited to conduct a demonstration in Bremen.

The city of Bremen, with a prewar population of
approximately 400,000, had been more than three-quarters
destroyed and had lost at least half of its school buildings.
A majority of the 51,000 school children lived in
improvised emergency shelters, or in one- to three-room
lodgings which they share with up to 16 other persons.
The tendency had been to reconstruct all school buildings
as they were before the war, utilizing the fragments and
portions of walls still standing.

The Bremen school building project introduced new
cooperative practices and a new community spirit into
municipal planning for educational and cultural re-
construction. City school authorities, architects, municipal
officials, teachers and even the school children found
themselves working together in a city-wide planning
program for better schools,

VIGOROUS PUBLICITY campaign pressed by the

teachers and city officials resulted in a school
building exhibit displayed at the Rathaus (City Hall) and
viewed by thousands of interested visitors, The exhibit
featured model classrooms and school buildings of new
design and technical development; a map of city
neighborhoods featuring community centers that embrace
school buildings; youth centers, and areas for adult
education and recreation; large statistical displays with
beautiful art work; cross-section models in color
showing modern school furniture and landscaping to scale;
samples of new school furniture and building materials;
recent technical advances in color and illumination, and
unique displays of temporary school housing architecture.

The planning of this exhibit led to a number of
important developments. Ground work was laid for a
continuation of cooperative methods in designing school
buildings. City planning authorities became aware of the
place of community centers in creating a master plan for
city construction. Many new features were immediately
incorporated into school buildings under construction.
Perhaps most important was the tendency noted for school
children to become more civic-minded.

The exhibit of model laboratories and school facilities
attracted considerable attention at the International Con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ference on Comparative Education at Chiemsee, in Bavaria,
this year. The school building exhibit constructed at
Bremen subsequently was sent on a tour of the major
German cities in the American zone.

EVELOPMENTAL STUDIES of school fiscal policy

aimed at adequate and equitable financing of the
German public schools has been conducted on a zone-
wide basis by the American authorities in close coopera-
tion with German research associates and planning com-
missions, Provisional findings indicate an average per pupil
expenditure among cities of DM 165 ($39.30) per annum.

Less than 10 percent of state internal affairs budgets
is allocated to public schooling. The one-tenth of child
population attending the secondary schools is afforded
four times the school support granted those in popular and
vocational schools. And rural children, having a less well
developed school program, receive about half the school
support given in larger cities. The school fiscal policies
studies are also concerned with the absence of provision
for local initiative and community participation in school
advancement, These findings, graphically interpreted, are
made generally available to public forums and education
discussion groups.

The liberal among German educational
leadership have shown an interest in this realistic and
scientific approach to a solution of their problems, with
the result that committees to study school finance and lay
participation are active both in German educational
societies and in several progressive localities such as the
rural county of Leonberg of Wuerttemberg-Baden. -+END

elements

Overcrowding continues to be a major problem in Ger-
many’s schools today due to war damage. While there
has been some improvement since currency reform in

June 1948, school buildings with modern classrooms
remain an acute need in virtually all German cities.

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 24 ---
Vocational Education

OCATIONAL EDUCATION has two major aspects in

present-day Germany—its improvement and a
planned program of vocational guidance based upon a
careful analysis of job opportunities.

Vocational Education should provide both male and
female students with educational opportunities of quality
and duration, not only to guarantee the continuation of
high standards of technical skills but also to insure the
broadening and deepening of civic and cultural growth
of the youth in vocational schools along democratic lines.
Students so trained should become responsible citizens
as well as skilled workmen.

Many progressive German vocational leaders are aware
of the need of a more general education in vocational
schools and of greater emphasis on social studies, Thirty
leading German vocational leaders and adminstrators
returned at the end of June from a stay of three months
in the United States where they made an extensive study
of the administration, philosophy and teaching methods
of vocational institutions.

EEPLY IMPRESSED with the duration and latitude

of vocational education opportunities in America,
they recently held a series of conferences in which by
prepared reports and discussions they have passed on
their findings to: their fellow workers and have made
many valuable recommendations, One such recommenda-
tion is to.require agricultural vocational students to
conduct farm or home projects in connection with their
part-time classroom studies for the purpose of combining
theory and practice, a technique which had not been
employed in Germany previously.

Another recommendation, partly the result of obser-
vations in the United States, partly the result of US

Learning a skill — students of

the Domestic Science Department

consultants’ work in Germany, has been an improved
agricultural , extension program aimed at bringing the
results of agricultural research to the large mass of farm
people, thereby to increase production and generally
improve rural standards.

Agricultural science in Germany is far ahead of farm
practices. In order to bridge the gap between research
and practice, each of the three states in the American
zone has established a coordinated state extension service
with a director, home economics supervisor and specia-
lists in agriculture, home economics and youth activities,
Some 15 sample counties have been chosen as demon-
stration areas for testing and projecting the new program.

ROM THIS MODEST beginning it is hoped that at least

75 percent of the farm people will eventually have
access to the service instead of the present favored
20 percent.

In implementing this program, a series of conferences
between German and American officials and a limited
exchange of German and American extension specialists
and administrators have taken place during the past two
and a half years. In addition to the exchange-of-persons
phase of the program, material assistance has been
granted these states to supplement their contributions
in establishing the democratic extension service,

It is believed by American agricultural experts that
German agricultural production can be increased ap-
proximately 15 to 20 percent if scientific methods are
adopted by at least 75 percent of the farmers,

The second major aspect of the Vocational Education
problem is the lack of sufficient job opportunities in the
traditional areas of apprenticeship to meet the needs of all
the youth, Youth unemployment is high and is likely to

of ‘Social Workers’ School learn scientific

methods of cooking in modern German kitchen, knowledge and experience which they in turn will pass on. |

SPECIAL EDITION

21

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
increase, Full-time school attendance ends for more than
80 percent of German youth at the age of 14.

‘Their education from that time on is tied up with
getting ready to make a living. Through the labor office
they apply for assignment as apprentices in a factory,

In the “Elizabeth” Vocational School for the Trades at
Munich boys in their early teens are shown (top) in a
machine shop class, with instructor; (center) shoemaking

and (bottom) tailoring classes. (Photos by Duhnkrack)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

small firm or with an individual craftsman, a housewife,
a farmer, a business or whatever their vocational interest
and opportunity may be. Thereafter they work full-time
at learning this trade except for five or six hours each
week which they spend in a part-time vocational school
program.

If the apprenticeship openings equal the number of

youth, every one has his opportunity to prepare
for a vocational future, The situation has so
developed as a result of the restricted industrial

development and other factors that thousands of young
people today can look forward to nothing better than
employment at unskilled labor.

More than 57,000 youngsters in Hesse have completed
the full-time school attendance requirement this year.
45,000 want apprenticeship opportunities. But there are
apprenticeship openings for only 70 percent of the boys.
and 30 percent of the girls—22,000 youngsters are
blocked in making preparations for a vocation not only
not of their choice, but a vocation of any kind.

Because of the high birth rate during the Nazi period
and the influx of refugees, the number of children
graduating in 1953 will be 83,000 in comparison with
57,000 in 1949, This situation, which is very similar to the
early 1930's, was known to individual German organiza-
tions, the labor office and others, but the influence of
German specialization and recognized areas of authority
effectively blocked any one group in taking the initiative
in calling all concerned groups together to make plans.

OOPERATIVE PLANNING by headquarters and state

American education personnel brought this problem
to the attention of the Hessian ministry of education in
August. Representatives of the labor office, the ministry
of economics, the trade unions, chambers of commerce,
industry, industrial and educational leaders, and other
state and community leaders were called together.

At an initial two-day conference in September they
arrived at agreement on nine measures to help the
situation. This preliminary conference of individual
groups was followed by major conferences of youth
leaders, Within a month appeals went out to all
employers to take on additional apprentices.

The ministry of education by decree doubled the
school-time attendance requirement of unemployed youth,
On Oct. 2, the Hessian trade union paper said, ‘We
cannot believe that these measures are deemed sufficient
to face the problem squarely, A more thorough approach
is absolutely necessary.”

This situation is being met early as a result of the
sensitiveness of American education personnel to the
German youth employment situation and their initiative
in stimulating the cooperation of all German organiza-
tions. The situation in Hesse is typical of the entire
American zone. Similar work is underway in Bremen and
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, with equally encouraging reactions
on the part of the Germans. -+ END

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 26 ---
Teacher Edueation

HE DAILY WORK of a teacher, like that a mother

does for her children, is dramatic only to the teacher.
Its social implications are inestimable. The objectives,
ideals and destiny of a nation are in the teacher's hands.
In the classroom the aims and aspirations of the new
generation are silently being forged. The best norm for
judging the direction for any social order is what goes
on in schools, There the skilled observer who has but
eyes to see can read the future of the nation.

From the very beginning of the US occupation in Ger-
mafiy the education of teachers was made a major concern
of the education staff. Denazification took its toll, as did
wartime death and imprisonment. Through a program of
teachers’ helpers and through the reintegration of refugee
teachers, returned prisoners of war, and minor-Nazi
teachers into the school system, the earlier teacher short-
age has been filled and an increasingly greater time can
be spent on the full-time training of teacher candidates
and on a program of training for teachers now in service
in the schools,

The Teacher Education Institute in Weilburg, Hesse,
has developed a curriculum on a college level for
elementary school teachers. Several] small teacher insti-
tutions in Bavaria have been combined into a more
efficient, larger unit, The Teacher Education Institute in
Berlin, which moved in February 1949 from the Soviet
Sector to the US Sector of the city, is developing a model
curriculum of studies with the help of the regular US
education staff and special consultants, The program of
curriculum development for the teacher education institute
at Esslingen, Wuerttemberg-Baden, is
worthy of a more detailed exposition.

The Kultusminister (Minister of
Culture) of Wuerttemberg - Baden
decided in 1948 to establish in Ess-
lingen a model teacher education in-
stitute on a college level. It was to
differ from German institutions by
including in the same building the
training of elementary, secondary
and numerous specialized types of
teachers, The detailed planning of the

Teacher training institutes in the
western zones of Germany are slowly
alleviating the acute teacher shortage
which a few years ago crippled the
educational system. With the aid of
US and west Europe curriculum ex-
perts, several institutes such as the
Freising Elementary Teacher Training
Institute pictured have been set up to
Prepare new instructors, and to give
added training to in-service teachers.

(Duhnkrack photo)

SPECIAL EDITION

new curriculum was done at the international workshop on
teacher education held at the Paedagogische Hochschule
(Teachers' High School) May 23-August 12, 1949,

The workshop was a cooperative effort between German
educators and consultants from other countries, notably
the United States. The Ministry of Culture in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden took an active part in the planning. Dr. Anton
Brenner, director of teacher education in the ministry was
at the same time director of the workshop. Twenty-
four German educators participated together with ten
American consultants and a total of six European con-
sultants, three from Switzerland and one each from the
Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom.

WELVE FULL WEEKS of general sessions and in-
numerable group sessions and working parties saw
the ultimate realization of a thorough-going curriculum
for an ideal teacher education institution in Wuerttemberg-
Baden, The curriculum was not everything that the
United States consultants would have hoped for, but it
succeeded nonetheless in applying the best principles of
modern teacher education pedagogy to the German prob-
lem. The resultant plan, both as regards its objectives
and as regards the details of curriculum, was tailor-made
for Wuerttemberg-Baden, with a realistic acceptance of
the social and economic conditions of present day
Germany.
All participants in the workshop were highly apprecia-
tive of the discussions and of the international exchange
of ideas, The German educators in particular found the

Be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
At right, student teachers attend a special night school session in problems besetting scpools in postwar Germany.
Left, instructor, with tambourine, instructs class at teachers’ school in technique of modern dance and gymnastics.
At special institutes, teachers learn many imported methods of instruction and west Europe curriculum advancements,

workshop technique a unique method of approach to a
problem and almost without exception praised its efficacy.

The final report giving the results of the workshop will
be printed in two languages at US Government expense
for approximately DM 40,000. The cost of the services of
the United States consultants is computed at $4,400 each
and that of the European consultants at $25 a day each.
The Ministry of Culture of Wuerttemberg-Baden con-
tributed the use of the buildings, the salaries of the Ger-
man participants and undertook to defray considerable
incidental expense for library and secretarial help.

N-SERVICE TRAINING of .teachers is more difficult
because of the long hours which are traditional in Ger-
man schools. The average German school day is from
eight o'clock in the morning until six in the evening on
all weekdays, including Saturdays. Many schools are still
operated in five-hour shifts as far as the student is con-
cerned, but the teacher's work continues throughout the
day. The American techniques of late afternoon classes
and Saturday classes for teachers are therefore im-
possible,

One solution to the problem is that devised by the
Ministry of Culture in Wuerttemberg-Baden with the
assistance of the United States education staffs. A large
castle in Comburg, near Stuttgart, was made into what
is now known as the Akademie Comburg. Fortnightly
courses of instruction are arranged. Each course has a
specific topic such as “Psychology and the School,” or
“The Educational Value of Arithmetic and Mathematics,”
or “Situation and Method of Teaching History Today."
Selected teachers in groups of 60 are brought to Akademie
Comburg to attend these courses. They come from all over
Wuerttemberg-Baden and are paid their regular teaching
salaries while in attendance., US authorities take part in
the discussions and assist in securing the services of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

European educators as guest lecturers and discussion
leaders,

NOTHER GOOD opportunity for in-service training is

possible during the four-week vacation period in the
summer, Three large workshops with a mixed staff of
American and German educators were held in Bavaria
last summer, and similar projects are being planned for
next summer, The chief costs in such a project are travel
and per diem for the German participants and the salaries
of consultants, The Bavarian Ministry of Culture usually
supplies buildings, secretarial staff and library facilities.
Also, the excellent libraries of the Education Service
Centers play a not inconsiderable role in supplying
materials on loan for the larger meetings and in offering
facilities for small group conferences of one to five days’
duration.

Land Hesse and Land Bremen are planning special
courses for teachers in service to be held at strategic
places next summer. Most of these courses will use dis-
cussion and group conference techniques as distinguished
from Bavaria where the workshop on a specific problem
is more widely used.

Work of this kind with the teachers, in order to be
effective, must be planned long in advance, Many years
of effort will be required before the impact made upon
German curricula and methods will be measurably
significant to the expert, and definitely visible to the
casual observer. The day may yet dawn for Germany
when the child will be the center of classroom method
and not subject matter to be taught, and when the objec-
tive of the teacher will no longer be to pose as an
infallible arbiter of learning, but to make himself un-
obtrusive and gradually unnecessary in the child's
growth and development. ++END

24 SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 28 ---
Postwar Textbooks

N EVALUATING textbooks used during the Nazi regime

it has been found that all subjects, even mathematics
and the sciences, lend themselves to nationalistic and
militaristic indoctrination or may be used to implant seeds
of distrust or hatred for Jews or for other peoples. The
same books may at once serve to justify the means by
the end and to stamp out every sign of international
understanding.

Evidence of nationalistic and -militaristic indoctrination,
though it reached its climax under the Nazis, is by no
means lacking in the school books produced in Germany
hefore 1933. Apart from these shortcomings, which it is
the task of US educational authorities to eradicate, it has
been found that some books are well prepared from a
pedagogical and scientific point of view.

Even before the beginning of US Military Government
in the US Zone, it was realized that a large proportion of
the school texts then in use in German educational insti-
tutions could not be used after the overthrow of the Hitler
regime and that other reading materials would have to
be found in order to make possible the reopening of
German schools at various levels,

S A FIRST STEP in the direction of finding a supply

of acceptable books, a survey was made of texts from
the Weimar period which could be reprinted intact and
presented to the German school authorities as books
written and published in Germany by Germans and
consequently free from what might be termed “foreign
propaganda." Although it was realized that these texts
did not reflect the most up-to-date pedagogical ideas, it
was considered that their temporary use was the best
possible emergency solution to the textbook problem.

A few sample texts were discovered in England, but
most of those examined were obtained in microfilm form
from the large collection in the library of Teachers’ Col-
lege, Columbia University, During the summer of 1944
these films were read, standards were developed and
techniques for the elimination of Nazi militaristic and
nationalistic strains were worked out in detail.

A final list of texts selected for publication emerged
after agreement with representatives of the Control Com-
mission for Germany (British Element), and printing of
the books in question, from plates produced in England,
took place in an edition of 40,000 sets in Aachen and Bonn
during the late winter of 1944 and in the early spring
of 1945,

Textbook requirements for the entire US Zone were
obviously far in excess of the limited reprinting done at
first, hence a very much larger edition was produced in
Munich in the late summer of 1945, Final arrangements
for shipment of the books were concluded on Oct. 1 of
that year, and by the 15th of that month, 5,328,616 copies
Of the texts in question had been distributed throughout
the US Zone, the US Sector of Berlin and what was then
the Bremen enclave.

SPECIAL EDITION 25

The series consisted of 20 volumes: eight readers, five
arithmetic books, three history texts and four volumes on
nature study. The original cost of the printing was borne
by the Bavarian government, and the other states and
Berlin reimbursed Bavaria for the cost of their share
of the books,

N THE PRODUCTION of new textbooks the United

States authorities held unvaryingly to the rule that
German educators themselves would have to produce
them. As an aid, a series of curriculum centers was
established which offered library facilities, a place to
work and a certain amount of guidance from both German
consultants and members of the US education staff. The
system of textbook analysis was broadened to include
not only the negative criteria which served as a guide
to approval of the books for printing, but also positive
suggestions and recommendations for making the text-
books more effective educational tools,

A total of 1,576 titles had been analyzed up to Oct. 1,
1949, The preparation of the Berlin history series is a
good example of cooperative effort.

In the early part of 1947 the American staff educators
in Berlin realized that an important contribution to the
reorientation of German education would be made if a

Student at a German university pores
properly-oriented books to discover that much of what
he earlier had learned just wasn't so. German schools and

through new,

universities have been recipients of textbooks and
material aid from universities, educational groups and
individuals in the US.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
properly oriented series of history books could be made
available to the schools. No history had been taught
since the occupation began. Under the guidance of an
experienced social studies textbook author from the
United States, a committee of German educators, who
could see the value of a different emphasis in the inter-
pretation of history, went.to work on the problem. Some
were not professional writers, but their work was evalu-
ated by professionals at various stages.

The new books produced as a result of the committee's
work represent a big stride forward. Their treatment of
history includes a presentation of Germany as one among
the family of nations, in contrast to a former presentation
of Germany as the center of the universe. They present
material to help indicate how people learn to work
together, how they solve their problems so as to secure
both order and freedom, how they treat their neighbors
and place emphasis on securing active participating
citizenship,

LEVEN TITLES in all have been published. One is

now coming from the press, making a total of 12.
Two of these are supplementary books, The material for
the fifth grade was split into three titles, namely: Part I,
Introduction to Events of the Present; Part II, Life in
Prehistoric Times; Part III, The Early Germans,

Ancient and medieval history is the subject matter for
the sixth grade. The seventh grade book, entitled
Struggles for Freedom, deals with modern history up to
the Revolution of 1848, and is succeeded by a volume
bringing the story up to 1945. With the ninth grade, early
history is again covered under the title, Pyramid, Temple,
Cathedral, There are similar books for subsequent grades.

All of these are now in use in the schools of Berlin in
the American and British Sectors. Education authorities
in other states are considering their adoption.

Newly-published textbooks are checked and marked

at Catholic seminary before distribution to classes.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Textbook paper, which was in short supply on the
German market, was purchased with dollar funds from
the United States and from European countries and made
available in most cases at somewhat less than current
market prices to the licensed German publishers of
textbooks.

Approved textbooks rolled from the presses in increas-
ing volume so that the number in 1948, embracing 885
titles, was more than 8,000,000 for elementary schools,
approximately 3,200,000 for secondary schools, more than
1,300,000 for vocational schools, and nearly 900,000 for the
universities, The total for 1949 is approximately 15,000,000.

The emergency as regards textbooks can now be con-
sidered as past, and a constructive program for better
textbooks can be inaugurated in all subjects of study,

+ END

Ameriean Institute

URING 1949-1950, information about the United States

will be included in the program of German uni-
versities. Until visiting consultants from the United States
in the field of higher education initiated this program,
American subjects were only in 15th place as compared
with subjects on other nations, and as hard to find as studies
on Egyptology. During 1948-1949, only 47 lectures on the
United States of America were in the programs of German |
universities while the British Commonwealth of Nations
was the subject of 500 lectures.

To stop the neglect of American subjects, the American
Institute of the University of Munich was established,
supported in part by Reorientation Funds and in part by
the Rockefeller Foundation.

The Institute represents a cooperative effort of Americans
and Germans, for the Bavarian Ministry of Education and
the University Senate likewise have contributed sub-
stantially. This year, all students who wish to become
English teachers will be required to take a course in
American civilization. Lectures by nationally known Amer-
ican professors will be given so that Germans will become
acquainted with American customs, modes of thinking and
principles of life and government.

More than 75,000 volumes dealing with American
civilization are available at the University of Munich as
a result of the visiting consultant program. One tower and
wing of the university have been reconstructed and
furnished at a cost of DM 200,000 to the university. The
German ministry is also paying for a chair for American
studies which will cost DM 20,000 annually.

Thus a continuing institution for the presentation of
American culture is operative in at least one German
university.

26 SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 30 ---
Edueation Service Centers

MPROVEMENT OF textbooks beyond certain tech-

niques of size of type, format, the use of illustrations
and techniques of selection of materials, requires a
thorough-going background in social psychology and in
child growth and development. What started out as
curriculum centers are gradually being changed into
Education Service Centers which still offer the library
facilities in pedagogy, psychology, social theory and
model textbooks, but which in addition now have material
in audio-visual aids, files of psychological and educational
tests, and facilities for the making and standardizing of
new tests.

Ten United States educators are directors of the
centers, They organize the activities of the centers to
interest German educators in the psychological approach
to learning and stimulate them to devise both curricula
and methods for a new type of German education which
will place the child, growing and developing in his
capacities for knowledge and for social experiences, as
the center of interest.

Not all 11 Education Service Centers operate in the
same way. Several, notably those at Weilburg and Stutt-
gart, are attached to a teacher education institute. The
Education Service Center in Munich specializes in graphic
displays and in making geography and history meaning-
ful to the student and not merely a series of facts, places
and dates to be memorized with little social significance.

The Education Service Center at Nuremberg has been
especially successful in serving as the meeting place
for small groups of educational psychologists, and the
center in Wiesbaden in stimulating the construction and
standardization of a battery of psychological tests, School
buildings, as reflecting in their construction a new
philosophy of education, have been a point of interest
at the Education Service Center in Bremen where a dis-
play of model school buildings was on exhibit.

HE CENTERS have on an average a library of 11,000

volumes, as well as a supplementary library of films,
film strips and phonograph records, Subscriptions to
119 US periodicals, 47 German and approximately 50
other European periodicals are currently received.
The Bad Nauheim Center has an excellent collection of
textbooks published in German in all four zones since
the beginning of the occupation; the collection from the
Soviet Zone is especially valuable. A restricted section

of the Bad Nauheim library includes a collection of Nazi
textbooks. ; h:

During September 1949, the Education Service Centers
served 21,757 persons through use of library materials
and through lectures, conferences and exhibits. 15,636
books were loaned during the same month. The statistics
for September are typical and have been duplicated in
other recent months.

SPECIAL EDITION

Many Centers translate from English publications and
distribute in mimeographed form excerpts or summaries
of pertinent articles from professional magazines and
books. The Stuttgart Center prints a series of studies.

In each of the four states of the US Zone a monthly
publication in German is issued containing articles and
reports. These tell of ways in which educational problems
are being met throughout Germany and discuss theory
and methods of timely interest.

The Stuttgart publication, called Mitteilungen der
Paedagogischen Arbeitsstelle (Bulletin of the Paedagogical
Office), is the oldest; it has been published bimonthly
since March 1948. Approximately 10,000 copies of each
issue are distributed free of charge to the schools,
Bremen’s Der Kreis (The Circle) is a monthly magazine,
It first appeared in June 1948, followed’in July by the
monthly Paedagogisches Archiv of Wiesbaden. In February
1949, Schule und Gegenwart (School and Present Day)
appeared in Munich as a monthly magazine. A total
of 40,000 copies of the last three magazines is distributed
each month to teachers, institutions and educational ad-
ministrators throughout Germany.

HE BUDGET for the Service Center does not represent

the entire cost of upkeep because considerable
help was given by the Germans in the form of rent, heat,
light and services. For example, four towns adjacent to
Stuttgart and one near Heidelberg wished to establish
reading rooms where teachers might use the library
facilities. Accommodations were furnished by the local
school authorities. While most books and periodicals
were purchased in the United States and in allied
European countries, additional books and periodicals were
purchased in Germany.

An increasingly important phase of the work for the
coming year will be the identification and training of
German educators capable of making a scientific approach
to the problem of child growth and development and
the concomitant problems of guidance. A few are already
at work on various aspects of the problem. Several are
being trained in Stuttgart under a noted Swiss psych
gist. Another is working in Wiesbaden under US direction.

These and others are gradually being organized into
teams with the objective of establishing and operating
child guidance clinics in connection with the Education
Service Centers, Here teachers, parents and pupils may
come for assistance in the solution of individual prob-
lems arising out of school and home relationships. Con-
ferences and discussion will give parents and teachers
a better understanding of the growing child and his
problems, + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Lay Participation

T MAY BE SAID in general that the lay public of Ger-
man communities have had little opportunity for, much

less experience in, supporting and directing their schools.
During the fall of 1948, a pilot study toward this objective
was initiated by an American specialist in Bavaria, His
first step was to organize ‘steering committees’’ which
brought together, often for the first time, alert teachers
from all types of schools in the community interested in
sustaining a program of school improvement.
steering committees collected and published as their initial
project a survey of the best educational practices in their
communities.

The next step was to organize citizens’ groups in the
five Bavarian cities chosen for the demonstration — Frei-
sing, Amberg, Forchheim, Karlstadt and Guenzburg — for
the purpose of discussing and publicizing areas of “unmet
needs” in their community schools, Subsequently this
enterprise attained the proportions of a movement with
11 cities recently sending representatives to a conference.

The name Volk und Erziehung (The People and Edu-
cation) has been adopted officially, A coordinating com-
mittee is operating on a Land (state) basis and a per-
manent secretariat and central office is maintained in the
Bavarian curriculum workshop at Kempfenhausen, Although
this movement has not yet recognized the need
for community school boards, representative of the public
and with real powers to act, it nevertheless constitutes a
beginning toward preparing the German public to exercise
local initiative for school improvement. In isolated in-
stances the public pressure has caused officials to co1rect
shortcomings in the schools.

HE UNMET NEEDS groups have acknowledged the

importance of marshalling financial resources in
support of community schools. The local initiative move-
ment has spread to large cities such as Munich, Nurem-
berg and Augsburg, While in other parts of the American
zone attempts have been made to obtain expressions from
teachers and from parents concerning school policy, the
public participation movement in Bavaria is superior in
that the best thinking laymen of the entire community
have become engaged in a study of their schools.

2

These ©

A special problem in carrying forward the school reform
arose because Germans in many parts of the US Zone
were disturbed over the idea of having to reform their
school system. They identified the movement less with.
catching up with progress than with the sorry fate of a
conquered people. To offset this feeling, an international
conference on comparative education was held at the
Rasthaus (rest house) at Chiemsee, in Bavaria, from
April 25 to 29, 1949, under the sponsorship of the Education
and Cultural Relations Division of OMGUS. Approximately
80 German educators from all parts of the western zones
of Germany met with educators from 12 western European
countries and the United States to discuss educational re-
construction.

The conference lasted five days. On each of the first
three evenings, a keynote address was given which sur-
veyed broadly an aspect of the world crisis with special
reference to education. The following mornings a panel
of six educators representing as many different countries
made comments on the address of the night before and
participated in a discussion on the subject, viewing the
topic first as a problem and then as a challenge to devise
educational patterns that would cope with the problem
satisfactorily.

In the afternoons the conferees met in five discussion

groups — respectively in the fields of adult education;
elementary, secondary and vocational education; higher
education; teacher training and youth activities — to

devise applications of the morning's discussion to the
specific field of their interest.

HE PURPOSE of the conference was to show that the

basic problems for education in Germany are similar
to those in other countries and that the solutions which
these other countries have been developing may stimulate
German educators to a satisfactory solution of their own
problems,

An immediate consequence of the conference was that

. German educators felt that school reform was not some-

thing which was unfairly expected of them alone, but
was really an educational reconstruction necessary in
every country as an aftermath of the war.

To have the proper effect, similar conferences must be
held on specific aspects of the problems which the Chiem-
see conference showed to be crucial in effecting education-
al reconstruction in the divided world of today. -+END

Citizens groups and teacher committees in Bavaria,
prompted by an American specialist, in 1948 made the first
move toward comprehensive examination of school
practices, with an eye to reform. Education and Cultural
Relations Division advanced the movement with sponsor-
ship of an international educators’ conference in 1949, at
Chiemsee, Bavaria. Much of the Germans‘ suspicion of
school reform evaporated; today more parent-teacher con-
fabs like the one at left may be observed in American
zone communities. (US Army photo}

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 32 ---
Free University of Berlin

/\HE REVOLT of German educators and students against
1 totalitarian dogma and their search for freedom to
think and study democratically can be best illustrated by
the exodus of whole schools, faculties and student bodies
from the Soviet Sector of Berlin into the western sectors
of that city in the autumn of 1948.

This movement capped a series of events which at the
same time led to the establishment of the Free University
of Berlin (Freie Universitaet Berlin) in the Dahlem
borough of the US Sector. The basic reason for the
establishment of the Free University was Communist
control over the old Friedrich Wilhelm University in the
Soviet Sector. Dismissals from the old university were
followed rapidly by student demonstrations, the establish-
ment of a preparatory committee and the approval by the
city government on Nov. 10, 1948 of the statutes giving
the new university a legal basis.

More than 5,000 prospective students applied for
admission, and .2,200 were initially accepted.

NITED STATES occupation authorities from the very

start gave advice and assistance in the opening of the
new university. Their representatives participated in the
planning committees and assisted in securing necessary
funds, coal, food, transportation, books, periodicals and
materials for rebuilding.

The student body has since grown to 5,000 and
additional thousands, mostly unwilling students at
East Zone universities, are waiting admission. With the
historian Prof. Friedrich Meinecke as honorary president
and Prof. Edwin Redslob as president, the excellence of
the faculty has been greatly increased and early gaps and
weaknesses in the university's offerings in large part have
been removed.

The Free University is a major responsibility of the
US High Commissioner, and financial aid is required to
continue its support until the Berlin City Council
(Magistrat) is able to assume the entire burden. A direct

SPECIAL EDITION

29

subsidy of DM 1,000,000 has been approved for the current
school year with the condition that the city government
provide DM 4,000,000. The first US installment of
DM 250,000 has already been paid. This is in addition to
considerable assistance in obtaining housing, books and
building materials.

MERICAN HELP has extended also to problems of

student welfare. Since the university opened, American
universities, welfare organizations and individuals have
helped 1,632 Free University students with at least one
piece of clothing each, while 266 refugee students have
been completely clothed by American gifts,

The action taken by the president and students to
block the return of undesirable nationalistic frater-
nities is an example of the positive tendencies with Free
University student life. When it was discovered and
proved in November 1949 that a teacher of dentistry had
organized such a fraternity and had forced 14 of his
students to become members, the teacher was immediately
dismissed by the president.

At two subsequent meetings of large numbers of students,
the question of the return of nationalistic fraternities was
thoroughly discussed and the students agreed unanimously
to oppose such fraternities. To fill the gap, however, they
were equally emphatic that positive action had to be taken
to assure that student life would develop along construct-
ive, international lines. As one step in this direction,
student representatives found a spacious mansion and
within two weeks had cleaned, repaired and furnished it
to serve as a Student Union—a center which is now open
free of charge to all students of the university.

The Free University stands today as a symbol in the
struggle for academic freedom and human dignity, It has
come to be known as a fighting university and its pro-
fessors and students are aware from personal experience
of the dangers of totalitarianism. It conserves the
traditional values of European universities and at the
same time is a powerful influence upon all the
universities of Germany for the incorporation
of new ideas of student participation, of liberalized
teaching methods and of greater responsibility
on the part of the university in serving the
needs of the community. -+ END

The US Commander, Berlin, presents check for
DM 250,000 to the president of the Free Uni-
versity. Check represented first installment oi
1,000,060 Deutsche marks authorized by HICOG
as a contribution to the institution for the
present scholastic year, the High Commission
assuming part of the burden due to inability of
the Berlin Magistrat to provide sufficient finan-
cial aid. US authorities have helped the uni-
versity since its beginning. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 33 ---
A new political consciousness for the women

ERMAN WOMEN are in a decisive position today

either to promote or retard the development of
Germany as a democratic state. The majority of Germans
are women. There are 7,500,000 more women than men.
Two-thirds of the voters are women. They have equally
great economic power and must carry the major share in
rebuilding Germany,

But German women because of the traditional social
system and the prolonged Kirche-Kueche-Kinder (Church-
Kitchen-Children) policy are ill-prepared for the stagger-
ing role circumstances have forced upon them. They
need education and aid as women and as citizens in order
to assume their responsibility for political, economic and
social leadership. Since 1948, Military Government,
aware of the crucial role of German women, has given
special attention to Women's Affairs in the Reorientation
Program with the primary aim of civic education for
women in all areas of life in the home, in business, in
politics and in rural life,

The staff in Women's Affairs until October 1 included
two Americans — the chief of Women's Affairs and a
senior education specialist who since has been dropped;
also a German consultant and a German stenographer.
The work of Women’s Affairs is steadily growing in
scope and demand,

The Cultural Exchange program of Women's Affairs for
the years 1949-1950 as requested includes 28 reorientation
projects which would provide for the sending of 36 German
women to America, 21 American experts to Germany and
19 European leaders to Germany and the expenditure of
approximately 180,000 Deutsche marks,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

ot Germany: meeting of the International Socialist Women in Berlin.

Civic education today is a thrilling assignment in Ger-
Many, where new. life is stirring and help to German
women brings tangible results:

In a cafe in Heidelberg October 2, some 60 Ger-
man women gathered from the large cities, towns
and Kreis (county) centers of Wuerttemberg-Baden
to review their current program of civic activities,

In Crailsheim squads of women spending several
hours each week clearing rubble from bombed
areas; women's groups serving 44 free meals each
week to old or sick refugees, meals donated and
prepared by the women and distributed by school
children; visits made regularly to check on the need
of the refugees in having a favorable effect on
public opinion towards refugees.

Kreis Leonberg: a day nursery for working
mothers, the original cost of 5,000 marks raised by
an evening program for this project. The women
started this project which eventually included all
of the community.

In Stuttgart a committee of women with all of the
welfare agencies is making a survey on juvenile
delinquency and working out plans for preventive
measures,

In Karlsruhe a series of forums is being run by
German women entirely organized by a women's
committee, with an average attendance of 800 men
and women. The Buergermeister (mayor), after the
first meeting, expressed concern because “the
women asked the wrong questions.”

Women's meetings, of which 392 already have
been held with an average attendance of 200, will
be continued. Speakers are in demand on subjects

SPECIAL EDITION:

--- Page 34 ---
of public interest—the Marshall Plan, the organization of Western

Europe, UNESCO and the United Nations,

Thirty women and a number of men are registered for volunteer
service with the Women's Lecture Bureau in Stuttgart.

The Heidelberg meeting shows not only the active promotion by
the German women of their own projects and meetings but their full
participation in community councils,

Last summer 40 young women from the three Laender (states) (of) Hesse,
Wuerttemberg-Baden and Bavaria, all under 35 years—the critical age
under Hitler—and now assistants of Resident Officers, spent a week at a
training institute preparing for their increasing responsibility. One of
these young government workers writes regarding her follow-up of the

course:

“During the three weeks since we were together in Seeshaupt,
I have sorted all my material, talked with reporters of our local
press, brought some officials, men and women, together and told
them about my plans. The deputy Buergermeister of Weilheim
favors progressive ideas, especially free discussions and women's

work. The two most active
women in Weilheim are
quite enthusiastic.

“On August 9 there will
be a great women's meeting
on the election, so this point
also was covered, There are
so many things one could
do...,but many things, in-
cluding the lack of funds
etc., hinder speedy develop-
ment, Still I hope to win
both money and time, and
to interest a great number
of women."

“We have some interest-
ing people in the Kreis, but
it takes time to get acquaint-

SPECIAL EDITION

Once restricted “to men only,”
German politics andeconomics have
landed squarely in the laps of
women, demanding hard work and
close attention. At top, a young
electro assistant learns the tricks of
her trade in a vocational school, one
of the many goals pushed by pio-
neer women's trade organizations.
Center, the editor of a woman's
magazine voices at a Berlin elec-
tion rally the political beliefs
that made her a member of the
city assembly. The young me-
chanic below is learning her trade
through a four-year apprenticeship
scheme that will put her in the
once hard-to-crash class of skilled
labor. (Telegraph photos)

31

ed with all of them, and this

mission needs diplomacy,

tact and patience. So I

force back all big ideas and

work carefully on prepara-
tions. I hope to tell more
in my next letter."

A newspaper clipping of an
article written by one of the
members of this same course
shows that effective voters’ educa-
tion was carried on, i“

Entitled ‘Women and the Forth-
coming Elections,” the article said:

“Since women are in the
overwhelming majority in
Germany today, they should
become aware of the in-
fluence their vote may have
on national development,
whether in the cultural,
economic, social or political
sphere. Due to conditions
many women are forced to
earn a living, not alone for
themselves but also for their
families,

“The women have the
same responsibilities as men
and therefore should be more
interested in occurrences of
the day and in the measures
taken by the authorities and
government. For instance,
women's opinions in regard
to education, housing and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Feminine leaders from the three west zones of Germany
and Berlin are shown at the initial meet of a trizonal
federation of women's clubs. To be affiliated with the
International Council of Women, the federation is their
answer to the Communist-backed “Democratic Women's

League" which was begin earlier in the east zone.
social questions, etc. must be heard, if the govern-
ment is to take the course desired by the population,
for which, in fact, it exists,

“Article 3 of the Bonn Basic Law provides that
‘all persons are equal before the court; men and
women have equal rights; no one may be given
special privileges or treated prejudicially on
account of his sex, race, language, native country,
class, belief, religion or political attitude.’

“Therefore, women should make use of the
opportunity to cast their vote on August 14. To cast
their vote intelligently, they must be well-informed,
that is, they must be interested in local, national
and political problems. They should take an active
part in community life through their work in a party
or through non-partisan activity. The elections of
August 14 are especially significant inasmuch as
they will determine the future government of
Western Germany, which again will have legislative
and executive power and will represent Germany in
the world.”

ERMAN WOMEN are beginning to realize that col-
lective action and a free expression of opinion are
inherent in a democracy.

Two groups in Bavaria—the Fraenkischer Frauen-
arbeitskreis (Working Women's Council) and _ the
Federation of University Women—have petitioned the
Bavarian Ministry of Education to admit women teachers
to scientific vocational teacher training as well as practical
training. The Fraenkischer Frauenarbeitskreis (Bavaria)
has established contact with competent authorities in
order to open apprenticeships to girls in fine mechanics
of industry such as watchmaking; more than 1,000 girls in
the Nuremberg area are unemployed.

The same women's group is attempting to improve
working conditions of household help and induce more

INFORMATION BULLETIN 32

girls to enter this field. Also it is cooperating with
Amerika Haus [America House (USIS-operated)] in
furnishing speakers on the subject of “Home Economics
in Germany—Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow.”

The Wiesbaden Women’s Association, representing a
cross-section of leaders in home life, professions, church
activities—Catholic and Protestant—women of organi-
zations, etc. sent the following protest against the
acquittal of the well-known film producer Veit Harlan,
who produced the film “Jud Suess” (“Sweet Jew") during
the war and played a doubtful role during the years of
Nazism. The resolution reads as follows:

“The acquittal of the film producer Harlan on the
grounds of ladk of evidence calls for condemnation.
The penal decision may be up to the judges but it
seems important, in view of the reactions here and
abroad and the joyful demonstration of Harlan’s
friends, that from the viewpoint of women the
producer of ‘Jud Suess’ should be morally con-
demned. Women will not easily forget the
persecution of their Jewish husbands. If laws are
not sufficient, public opinion must provide for the
boycott of Harlan and similar Harlan creatures,
that they may not be the cause of a new disaster.”

HESE ARE only a few illustrations of the dividends

already being paid in Women's Affairs’ intensive
citizenship program, which is being carried out through
workshops, conferences, large public meetings and the
circulation of material.

As German women have become increasingly aware of
their role as citizens, they realize that equal opportunity
and equal rights are necessities for civic responsibility.
Therefore an intensive study of legislation concerning
women in preparation for the revision of the civil code
to guarantee the provisions of the Bonn Constitution is
being carried on in each Land (state) by women leaders,
lawyers, representatives of the press and women's
organizations,

Church leaders, who have always played a major role
in social welfare, now for the first time are including in
their programs an emphasis on civic education and social
action. A lawyers’ group in Heidelberg is holding public
meetings to present the German law with special
emphasis on women's rights, youth rights and: family
rights, using young German women law students to answer
questions.

German women's organizations, both those of the past
which were liquidated by Hitler and others now being
established, and new women's movements are being
assisted to develop their programs and methods along
democratic lines. Recently a federation of women's
organizations in the three zones of Western Germany
was established which will be affiliated with the Inter-
national Council of Women. This is a forceful] answer to
the Communist-directed “Democratic Women's League”
in the East, now seeking to penetrate all of Germany,
which is part of the “International Federation of Demo-
cratic Women"—world-wide instrument of Communist
effort.

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 36 ---
In the Women's Affairs’ program American women
experts play an important role under the Cultural
Exchange plan:

America, that political leaders are responsible to
their constituencies. She returns every week from
Bonn to Bavaria to inform her voters on current

Two American church leaders—a Catholic and a
Protestant—have given church women a new insight
into Christian social action.

A leader of farm women in America, the presi-
dent of the Associated Country Women of the
World,, has brought 'to rural German women
practical help in farm problems,

An American expert in citizens’ councils has
stimulated women’s groups to participate in com-
munity councils in Germany.

An expert in the technique of education for
women voters has shared her skill and interpreted
the meaning of women's voluntary organizations in
a democracy,

An American writer and public relations specialist
has given German women in the press help and
technical advice in starting a new type of magazine
in “Die Weltbuergerin” (World Citizen) to stimulate

political issues, for, as she says, “the people have
a right to know and to decide."

A Stuttgart editor, a member of the Landtag
(State Council), wrote in her paper “Die Welt-
buergerin”: “For Europe American prosperity means
much more than food, clothing, housing; it means
spiritual liberty, dignity and protection in the face
of the dangerous Eastern ideology. The increasing
consciousness of being part of Europe and the world
is, for us, our only gain out of the war. The basic
idea of American democracy is the worth of the
individual. Good neighbor relations are the conse-
quence of this belief that each individual is a child
of God with equal rights and equal responsibility."

This Stuttgart editor is following up her recent US
trip by writing for various newspapers in Germany,
Sweden and Switzerland; by conducting special
courses for high school students with trips to the

women's interest in public life. Landtag session and special interviews with
ULTURAL EXCHANGE is a two-way traffic in ideas. Landtag members concerning their attitude on
Even more important than the visits of American specific issues.

experts to Germany are the visits of German leaders to An outstanding Christian woman leader since her
America. The immediate criteria of these visits are the tour of America has stressed in all church programs
German impressions of America and Americans and the a definite emphasis on Christian social action. Her
concrete lines of action they follow after they return to salient impressions of the USA she expresses as
Germany. But the full value of Cultural Exchange will be follows: “Even more striking than economic wealth
apparent only in the future, was, to me, the common consideration of personal
German women, whatever their special field, are gaining life. A whole nation seems to join in fair play,
in America a clear concept of democracy and an urge to following unwritten laws; this is perhaps the real

work for its realization in Germany. secret of democracy.”
A political leader recently elected to the Bonn One of the leaders from Berlin, prominent in a
Parliament realizes, as one result of@#her visit to women's welfare organization, was impressed in
(Continued on next page)

Women, who carried much of the domestic burden in Germany's last, disastrous war, today share in the hardest
task of reconstruction. No short-hour job, the work of tilling Germany's fields must devolve upon women, So depleted
are the forces of male labor. As above, left, women toil from early dawn until twilight with the still-crude implements
of farm economy. At right, women put their shoulders to the job of removing rubble from a bomb-devastated block.

SPECIAL EDITION 33 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
(Continued from page 16)

Theater and Music’

* implementation. The US-controlled Play Agency, in collab-
oration with the New York field office, acquires clearance
and rights for translation and publication of American
plays in Germany and is authorized to make contracts
with German theater producers. The library of American
music is established in conjunction with the US In-
formation Centers, and facilitates the availability and
rental of American works for performances in Germany.

Since the US Play Agency began operations in early
1946, more than 70 American plays have been translated
into German, printed and distributed throughout the four
zones of Germany. The demand from German producers
for the best American plays has been great, and at the
present time there are a good many new plays being
processed for publication and production, The most
widely performed American play since the occupation
has been, curiously enough, John Van Druten's “The
Voice of the Turtle’ (up to November 1, 1949 it had
been performed 1,085 times in the three western zones).
Other American plays which have achieved popularity
throughout the west zones and in some cases in the Soviet
Zone as well, are, in order of number of performances
given: “Three Men on a Horse” (900), “Biography” (624),
"The First Legion” (615), “Thunder Rock” (556), “The
Skin of our Teeth” (501), “Our Town" (473), ‘Monsignor's
Hour” (450), “Life with Father” (363), “Mourning Becomes
Electra” (177), “Glass Menagerie” (65). In the near future
“A Streetcar Named Desire" and “The Iceman Cometh”
will receive their first performances in Germany.

In addition to frequent productions of American plays
throughout the western zones, the German subsidized
theaters have brought out revivals of the classical] plays
of the repertory (some of which had been banned by
the Nazis), such as Lessings’s ‘Nathan der Weise,” Goethe,
Schiller, Hebbel, Ibsen, Moliere, and Strindberg. Also,
the international emphasis has been evident in the fre-
quent presentation of contemporary French and English
drama from Giradoux and Anouilh to Priestley and Noel
Coward. One of the most controversial and popular plays
of the postwar German theater has been “The Devil's
General” by the German-American author Carl Zuck-
mayer. The play deals with the Nazi period and with
a prominent figure in the Luftwaffe.

Since the currency reform in 1948 the financial status
of the theater world has been extremely critical and a
number of theaters have had to close down. Thanks to
the generous subsidies of state and city officials, however,
the majority of theaters have been able to continue on
a limited basis. Gradually, a few more theater buildings
have been reconstructed in German cities thereby
stimulating a greater interest in the drama.

The American Music Library contains about 500
compositions by 98 US composers. Up to June 1949,
there had been 1036 performances of American com-
positions in 58 German cities since the end of the war.
The composers whose works have been most frequently
requested are Aaron Copland, Samuel Barber, Walter

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

Piston, William Schuman, Quincy Porter, Charles Ives,
George Gershwin and Wallingford Riegger. Chamber
music by American composers is most frequently heard
in the concerts presented in the America Houses and on
the German radio. Orchestral works are_ occasionally
included on the programs of the leading symphony
orchestras. Menotti’s opera “The Old Maid and the Thief”
has been presented in two or three opera houses,

Both the US Play Agency and Music Library are con-
cerned with the promulgation of the best in American
cultural life and thus contribute to the general goal of
reorientation, education and the projection of American
cultural attainments. -+END

(Continued from page 33)

Women’s Affairs

America by lack of rivalry among women's organi-

zations. She is trying to liberalize her own move-

ment, has succeeded in adding two Jewish women

to the Board and is promoting a democratic policy

of organization.

The importance of Cultural Exchange has increased since
Western Germany assumed responsibility for building a
democratic state. Plans for the current year include,
among the 36 projects already mentioned, the following:

German women to America: Trade union leaders, farm
‘women, church leaders, social workers and women leaders
in various organizations to study the work of American
women in their special areas of interest.

American women to Germany: Leaders in politics, edu-
cation, women’s and church organizations to interpret the
responsibility of women for social and political action.

European women to Germany: Leaders in home econo-
mics and rural @lucation, in political life and international
affairs to advise and encourage German women along these
specific lines.

HE PROMOTION of Cultural Exchange between the

Germans of Germany and of other European countries
has special value because of the similar European context
in which civic problems are being solved by democratic
principles.

The priority project for the coming year is an Inter-
national Women's Conference in Germany to broaden the
horizon of German women, re-establish their relations
with women of other countries and promote a clearer
understanding of the responsibility of women in the world
today. The conference would include German women,
constituting half of the number, and women from all of
Western Europe, Great Britain and the USA. This con-
ference would have great value for German women through
helping them to participate more effectively in the rebuild-
ing of Germany and in relating them to Western demo-
cratic nations.

If the potential significance of German women's power
is fully recognized and developed, there is every reason
to believe that they may play a considerable part in
developing democratic ideas and practices in Germany
and insuring a German rooted democracy. °-HEND

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 38 ---
Religious Affairs

HE US HIGH Commission has been concerned,

as was its predecessor, Military Government, with
stimulating and encouraging the cultivation of the moral
and spiritual resources basic to the building of a peaceful
democratic Germany. They have assisted in creating an
environment in which German religious groups can most
satisfactorily and effectively draw upon their own
resources,

They have counseled and sought to stimulate into action
those elements in the religious traditions of Germany
which” promote decent standards of human behavior,
social justice and brotherhood and which encourage the
development of a scale of moral values and attitudes
which will support community and national life of an
orderly character,

Religious institutions are significant elements in the
social structure of Germany and are given commensurate
consideration in the Education and Cultural Relations
programs. On the membership rolls of the Catholic church
are inscribed about 53 percent of the population in the US
Zone; on the rolls of the Evangelical about 43 percent of
the population, The traditional activities and influences
of these and other religious groups encompass not only
the specific religious areas of devotion and worship, but
also many other areas common to community and national
life, including formal education, youth work, adult
education, labor and women's activities.

Under the policy of freedom of religion neither Military
Government nor the High Commission has ever
assumed or exercised any control over operational
functions in the specifically religious affairs of the
churches. They have given counsel and assistance in these

SPECIAL EDITION

traditionally accepted areas in which German religious
groups have actively and extensively participated in or
touched the life of the community.

| eqinaes leaders in Germany are intensively active
in overhauling their programs and gearing them into
the current socio-economic problems, particularly those
harassing the working man and his family,

Such programs aim to equip the German people to direct
into peaceful channels the economic and political potentials
rapidly being restored to them. The problem of releasing
religiously motivated social action as a creative and
guiding force calls for a fusion of German self-help and
outside aid. In this task Germany's church-related social
action agencies, in such fields as community organization,
women's activities, the church and economic life and labor,
drawing upon professional and lay leadership both at home
and abroad, are in a strategic position to render timely
assistance.

One of the major churches, for example, has nine na-
tional organizations with social action programs geared to
the solution of problems of the working man and his
family. Each of these is organized in every diocese and
locally in every major community. One religious or-
ganization has 180,000 members, another 122,000, a third
120,000 members. Their programs are aimed primarily at
helping and educating the laboring man. Their overall
aim is to stimulate him to assume responsibility in the
solution of his own problems in the light of religious
principles.

To do this these religious organizations are conducting
Christian labor schools which train for leadership in labor
unions and sponsor workshops, seminars, conferences,

35 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
institutes and discussion clubs which center on the solution
of worker's problems in the light of Christian principles.

HAT HAVE these organizations done this past year
toward accomplishing their objectives?

Under the stimulation, encouragement and cooperation
of US professional personnel, they have awakened a
sense of community responsibility as evidenced by a
rapid increase of membership in labor unions, founded
building cooperatives to assist in housing developments
and established labor schools. The Catholics, for example,
founded four such schools in Bavaria and have plans for
two more in Hesse and one in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

They have held workshops, institutes, summer camps
(averaging 200 attendance) not only for local labor leaders,
but for key religious leaders as well. In Limburg, Hesse,
for example, 80 outstanding religious leaders for the first
time sat down with several key socialist labor leaders in
a week-long workshop to discuss how they in their po-
sitions of leadership could more effectively apply Christian
principles to the solution of problems in the local
community on the level of day-to-day living. This was one
of six such workshops held during the summer of 1949.

In addition, Christian social action institutes were held
in each of the major areas of the US Zone, social action
seminars for key religious leaders were instituted, three
weekly religious publications devoted solely to workers
problems were founded, in addition to more than a dozen
other papers already established and under the direction
of these organizations in that area.

As a result of these workshops and institutes, there was
brought about the inclusion of courses in social problems
and community relations in the curricula of youth
leadership, seminary and adult workers schools. In
cooperation with all west German bishops, most of these
organizations launched home-building programs, focusing
their efforts on workers apartment buildings.

The effectiveness of the educational program of these
teligious organizations manifested itself likewise in other
ways, such as the holding of voluntary protest meetings
on the part of workers against Communistic influences in
their midst, and the formation of local discussion clubs
where members of the community discussed their common
problems in the light of the principles which their leaders
had learned in the workshops and labor schools,

HAT HAVE US government religious affairs advisers
had to do with these accomplishments?

In many instances the ideas which led to these activities
were initiated by the US professional personnel. For
example, the holding of workshops, emphasis on the de-
mocratic approach in training leaders, revision of curricula
and emphasis on social action, emphasis on practical
discussions as opposed to theoretical lectures are a few
of the suggestions that were offered to the German
religious leaders. Together, both US and German personnel
met on the grass-roots level and worked out the details
of many of these programs.

Encouragement has been given by American personnel
to younger religious leaders who had programs that were
geared to current local needs, but, because these were

INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

new, met grave obstacles, traditional indifference and pro-
fessional jealousies that would have blocked the
development of these programs.

Some 70 key religious leaders observed programs of
similar organizations in the US while other religious
leaders were brought into contact with experts from the
US and Europe. Thus programs designed to alleviate the
conditions of the working men received a vital impetus.
These returned German leaders are now actively working
with their own constituents applying what was learned in
the United States. ,

By participating personally in the discussions at the
various institutes, US personnel have given practical de-
monstration of democratic discussion techniques and
thereby contributed to the success of the various programs.

TTITUDES of tolerance, mutual respect and goodwill

are essential to the proper functioning of the
machinery of democracy. Towards this end and as a
means of promoting democratic interfaith relations, the
Religious Affairs personnel approved the formation of the
Councils of Christians and Jews in the US Zone.

The National Conference of Christians and Jews in
America was invited to send a liaison representative to.
Germany to explore the possibilities of developing such
councils, and to assist the Germans in their development.
There was found a genuine interest on the part of both
church and civic leaders, and as a result Councils of
Christians and Jews have been organized in Munich,
Frankfurt, Stuttgart and’ Wiesbaden.

Plans are being made for the organization of six
additional councils. These councils have organized a Ger-
man coordinating council with a director of literature,
who is currently engaged im assisting Germans in deve-
loping educational materials for use in this work.

The councils are civic organizations of religiously
motivated people. Their concepts of democratic citizen-
ship are based not only upon the political idéals of de-
mocracy, but upon the religious ideals of human
brotherhood which are derived from the teachings of
Christianity and Judaism. Thus the moral and spiritual
resources of the German people are stimulated and utilized
in building the foundations of a free society.

IHESE COUNCILS consist of boards of directors of 36
to 40 influential leaders in business, labor, education,

* religion, women's groups, government, youth work, press

and radio. Each council has a fulltime paid director, The
council's purpose is to interest civic, educational and
religious organizations in assuming responsibility for
developing human relations based on justice, friendship,
understanding and cooperation among groups who differ
racially, religiously and nationally.

Representatives of committees from the various councils
met in June 1949 in two-day workshops in which 18 to 26
leaders from each of these fields agreed upon common
action programs. Their recommendations are now being
applied to the current year’s program, One hundred and
thirty-five leaders met in May 1949 for a two-day in-
stitute on human relations, which revealed a sincere
concern for developing a Germany where Jews, Pro-

(Continued on page 73)

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 40 ---
HE EARLY POSTWAR mission of the Health and Wel-
fare Sections of OMGUS was to prevent disease and
unrest in the civil population in order that the occupation
ot Germany might be accomplished quickly and without
disorder. This was accomplished by large scale military
relief operations ai:ned at the control of epidemic diseases
and the alleviation of distress and starvation. The enormous
resources of material and personnel possessed by Military
Government made possible the completion of this phase
of recovery during the first three years of occupation.
From the point of view of health and welfare the long-
term objective was to re-establish efficient health de-
partments and welfare organization which could take over
the work initiated by the Americans. Under the guidance
of OMGUS experts assigned to each Land (state) governor,
reliable German ‘personnel were finally recruited and put
to work, This was not an easy matter due to the scarcity
of professional people who were both politically acceptable
and competent professionally. However, it may be said
that today in the American zone there exist functioning
health departments and social welfare organizations that,
under our general supervision and with the aid of some
outside material help, are meeting the minimum require-
ments of the German public.

UCH, HOWEVER, remains to be done before the
general state of the German public health is restored
to normal. Great gaps exist which must be bridged before

the newer developments in medicine, public health and
welfare practices in Germany are utilizing all that has
been learned in the western democracies in the last 15 to
20 years.

Tuberculosis control, preventive medicine, health ‘edu-
cation, maternal and child welfare, mental hygiene and
public health practices are some of the fields in which
progress was retarded in Nazi Germany. We believe that
the best way of helping Germans to bridge these gaps
is to bring key professional people and teachers into con-
tact with western personalities and organizations and
through the Exchange and Consultants program bring to
Germany the scientific advances and techniques without
which German social recovery will be incomplete.

As an example of how this approach works the tuber-
culosis situation during the war and the early postwar
period may be considered. The tuberculosis rate in Germany
was alarmingly high due to war hardships and shortages
and to Nazi disregard of preventive methods. The best tuber-
culosis authority in America was brought to Germany for
early surveys and to mobilize competent German phy-
sicians by personal contact, lectures and demonstrations.

These early teams succeeded in awakening the German
authorities to the seriousness of the situation so that TB
control programs could be put into operation. Later in 1948,
through the agency of OMGUS personnel, the Red Cross
organizations in Scandinavia were put to work on a BCG

The twin scourges of malnutrition and neglect were the most devastating that faced Germany's children. at war's close,
Today, public health and welfare organizations are enriching the long-meager rations of food and care with Programs
of their own. Day-care centers, such as that illustrated at left, in Berlin, have taken the children of working parents
off the streets, supplied them with creative activities and entertainment. Right, pupils of a Munich elementary school
eat their school-meal, provided gratis through the child-feeding program.

SPECIAL EDITION

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
The once-barren field of public health and weliare is gradually being peopled by interested and qualified German
specialists, American help has been lent wherever possible in developing more expedient methods of child care.
At left, German and American doctors confer at the bedside of two German children, stricken by polio, US funds
and equipment were utilized in the fight against polio, to help overcome inadequacies in the German medical program.
The picture at left depicts a ward in the Children’s Home at Wannsee, where the 60 inmates, including crippled and
refugee children, receive care from the German welfare group who operate the home under the auspices of the

US medical authorities in Berlin. Ages of the children range from four weeks to 16 years. (HICOG and US Army photos)

(Bacilli-Calmette-Guerin) vaccine demonstration program.
The purpose of this program was to show Germans
what this great contribution to TB control could
accomplish if used on a national scale.

This most important work is now progressing satis-
factorily and with proper assistance from the outside will
unquestionably save thousands of lives in Germany.

OVING FROM a controlling to an advisory service,

Military Government helped to re-establish social ser-
vices on a more modern and democratic basis, stressing
the importance of the individual and the giving of fi-
nancial assistance and special services on the basis of
individual need, uniformly and without discrimination
because of political conviction, race or religion.

A new orientation of medicine toward public welfare—bolstered by the introduction of new laboratory concepts—
has drawn German doctor-nurse teams into such beneficial programs as are illustrated above. Left: At Ulm, a line
of German citizens, extending from an elderly woman io a young girl, waits the publicly administered hemoglobin
and serum protein examinations conducted there in a general health survey of the citizenry. The work was done by
Nutritional Survey teams from the Wuerttemberg-Baden Public Health Office. At the Rudolf Virchow Hospital, Berlin,
which was partially destroyed in the war, German doctors are Jearning advances in blood transfusion methods, In
photo at rigiht, nurses extract blood for storage and later transfusion. Before the introduction of such “blood banks”

by US medics, transfusions were directly given, were met by many complications. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN ’ 38 SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 42 ---
Large volumes of voluntary relief supplies of food,
clothing and medical supplies, donated by the American
people, were imported to alleviate suffering of neediest
families. Some $40,000,000 worth of supplies, given under
auspices of CARE, CRALOG, Centre d’Entraide, League
of Red Cross Societies and the International Committee of
the Red Cross have been distributed by German officials.

In the bitterly cold winter of 1946-47, German private
welfare agencies, at the suggestion of Public Welfare,
joined in using the foreign relief foods for a warm
school luncheon given to undernourished children in
bombed out cities. Thus the experience and organization
were available when in April 1947 the US Government
decided to give 50 percent of all the children between six
and 18 years in the Bizone, and since April 1949 also in the
French Zone, a 350-calory meal a day.

| hice RECUPERATION was also assisted by Public
Welfare which negotiated the invitation of German
children with Swiss officials and private welfare agencies,
and later also with those of other countries. Arrangements

The gargantuan effort to keep Berliners healthy during the
infamous Soviet blockade had many phases. Not the least
of them was the evacuation of children and ailing elderly
women and men to homes in the three west zones of
Germany, where they were sure to receive the food and
heat necessary to health. The picture above depicts the
return of a group of children to Berlin, a fragment of the
20,000 who were evacuated to homes in Schleswig-Hol-
stein. Red Cross nurses, voluntary helpers, British and
American officers and German officials cooperated in the
giant task of relocation, (US Army photo)

SPECIAL EDITION

German nurses are playing new roles in the development
of Germany's health. With new administrations for nursing

schools, and the beginnings of cooperative nursing
associations, they are learning additional and necessary
skills. Above, two young Germans who have had their
hands amputated receive instruction in mechanical draw-
ing from a nurse at an American sector hospital in Berlin.

were made for more than 10,000 children who were
undernourished or threatened by TB to spend three months
of recuperation abroad.

Expellees arriving from Eastern Europe became a Ger-
man public welfare charge as soon as they had left
the reception camps. Public Welfare, aware of thé threat
to public safety and health if the settlement should fail,
cooperated closely with the German agencies’ and, at a
time of utter scarcity, provided stoves, furniture, bedding,
clothing, care and homes for the aged.

A score of welfare projects were developed with funds,
supplies and personnel of American agencies. The Ameri-
can Friends Service Committee has created three student
centers, five community centers and numerous special
projects to work with refugees; the Mennonites have
established two settlements; the Red Cross has set up
and equipped 50 sewing rooms; many feeding and warming
centers have helped the destitute; and $200,000 from
proceeds of US exhibits of German art have purchased
clothing, shoes and bedding for refugee children.

UR PROGRAM for the future is connected closely with
the Exchange and Consultants programs of HICOG.
Approximately 100 carefully ‘selected German physicians,
surgeons, public health officials, welfare workers, nurses,
child welfare specialists, professors and psychologists will
be sent to the United States for periods of three to
12 months for study and observation at American in-
(Continued on page 73)

39 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
Community Councils

SING A community-planning method developed firsi

in the United States, 57 citizen and community councils
organized in the American Zone of Germany now meet
weekly to solve community problems and to improve
their towns.

Community and citizen councils are new to Germany.
They were first started in the autumn of 1948, when their
development was announced as a major objective of the
Education and Cultural Relations Division. Since then,
with the help of trained American community organization
workers who interpret the importance of councils to
German community leaders, the community councils have
brought together representatives of welfare, health and
recreation organizations, city and county officials,
housewives, labor officials, industrial leaders and inter-
ested citizens.

Citizen councils have varied interests, but their one
objective is to get the coordinated cooperative support
of aroused and informed citizens to work out solutions
to community problems,

Problems vary from community to community. For
example, most of the larger communities have had to
solve the problem of rubble-removal from bombed-out
areas, Several citizen councils have cleared whole areas
of their towns with only the help of volunteers from
youth and adult groups. Smaller towns have no such
problems, although they may find the housing situation
a problem, caused by refugees from the east.

One citizen council in Wuerttemberg-Baden reports
that is has successfully established a community laundry,
not only to give housewives adequate laundry facilities,
but also to teach them the benefits of working together
in a voluntary way. Another council, also interested in

INFORMATION BULLETIN 40

women's citizenship responsibilities, organized a series
of lectures for mothers in home-making and the education
of children in the home. Other cooperative projects have

been day-nurseries, community stores and _ special
community surveys,
x x x

Community Recreation

EW GERMAN sport organizations, which have grown

from none in 1945 to 1,400,000 members, today stress
health, hygiene and recreation in contradistinction to the
Nazi emphasis on physical fitness for the state.

At the war's end all sports organizations were dissolved
by action of the Allied Control Council. With new objec-
tives they were permitted to re-form, while occupation
authorities insisted that new organizations be decen-
tralized and all leadership be elected by popular vote
of members. Now local sports groups elect members to.
state organizations, state organizations elect members to
the national organization, and each level of organization
may coordinate but cannot control the others.

More important than improved sports organizations in
Germany, however, is need to develop recreation programs
for all. Today, only those with money can participate
in sports organizations. Low income groups cannot afford
to play. However, HICOG emphasizes in its objectives
for German recreation a wide variety of leisure activities
besides sports, including dramatics, handicraft, camping, .
literature and social activities, and other free-choice
activities,

In youth leadership training schools, special attention
is given to training sports and recreation leaders, Com-
munity councils are asked to consider planning free
recreation programs. Training conferences give special
training to leaders in rural areas, where recreation pro-
grams have been meager. All are planned to increase Ger-
man participation in community affairs, and prevent
superimposed activities by any control authority; or state
direction. -++END

New beginnings: sports organizations for youth, once
notorious tools of the Nazi state, were disbanded by
order of the Allied Control Council at the end of the war.
Under new leadership and with revised objectives, sports
organizations were slowly given permission to re-form.
Supplementing these organizations, restricted to those

. with money-to-spare, are the free recreation programs

being encouraged by HICOG at the community level.
Much of the work to rebuild damaged sports grounds is
being done by youth itself (see picture, left). Athletic

fields have been at a premium since the end of the war.
(Photo by Woerner)

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 44 ---
2S

Community Activities

IHE COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES Branch carries on a reeducation program |
for Germans — youths and adults — by working with them in their cul-
tural institutions, community groups and other activities in community life.
Community group life and inter-group relations are used to bring about
socially desired attitudes by:
1, Encouraging the development of new organizations which train for
citizenship and a sense of community responsibility.
2. Encouraging existing organizations to provide activities which will
give participants an experience in democratic group life.
3. Encouraging the development of community planning programs and pro-
jects so that increasing numbers of Germans will participate.
4. Training leaders in all phases of German group life to understand and
apply democratic principles to community groups.
5. Developing educational materials which are used to train leadership
and reeducate groups to civic responsibility.
These aims are based upon the HICOG policy to regard the right to form
or join an organization as a fundamental part of democratic society and to
recognize the inherent and potential influences of organized group life.

ORMAL SCHOOLS provide basic training in any democracy, but in Ger-

many where most youth — more than 80 percent — leave school at the
age of 14 years, other means of education are needed. Throughout German
history it has been the leisure-time groups that have bred totalitarianism and
provided education for fascism.

Public discussion of pertinent social issues is encouraged as a way of
neutralizing one-sided propaganda and promoting an informed and respon-
sible citizenship.

The education and welfare of German youth is of paramount importance
to HICOG's efforts to influence German society toward peace and democracy.
More than 4,000,000 youth live in the American zone. The older youth were
caught in the drastic indoctrination measures of the Nazi — they are,
therefore, in greater need of reeducation. The younger youth, less in-
fluenced by Nazism, represent, under proper guidance, a potential democratic
force.

Along with adult education and youth activities, the Community Activities
Branch assists with community councils, leadership training and audio-
visual aids, as described in detail on the following pages. + END

al

SPECIAL EDITION Al : INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
A fresh-air school and recreation camp in the Wilmersdorf borough of western Berlin, opened by the city council,
provided children with three weeks of summer lessons, games, sports, relaxation and good food. Left, boys doing

gymnastics, Right, girls working in vegetable gardens at camp to produce food to supplement rations,

Youth Activities

SING A VARIETY of techniques, the Community

Activities staff is training leaders of 11,000 German
youth groups in methods of democratic leadership, The
small headquarters and field staff of seven US experts
makes frequent contacts with leaders of the 1,452,141
members of organized youth groups.

The Community Activities Branch of HICOG and the
five state and sector commissions have assisted in setting
up 266 county youth committees, where youth leaders
together plan youth activities and have available the
advice of the American staff experts.

Special conferences in 1949 already have trained more
than 1,300 youth leaders, and another 5,000 Germans have
been trained in the short-term Leadership Training Schools.

Effectiveness of training in democracy is difficult to
measure. How far German youth has come from Hitler
Youth days can only be estimated. One fact stands out.
The Freie Deutsche Jugend—Germany's Communist youth
organization, which has all the trappings of the Hitler
Youth organization—has attracted less than one percent
of all youth in organized groups,

Perhaps another symbol of success are the 954 German
community centers which have sprung up throughout the
American Zone. Community centers are instruments of a
democracy and have no appeal in totalitarian nations —
for they have community planned ‘activities and not state
planned activities,

HIRTY-EIGHT PERCENT of the total membership of
youth organizations in the US occupied area of Ger-
many belong to church-related agencies whose aim is to
develop a social responsibility based on fundamental re-
ligious values. A staff of three religious officers in HICOG
Headquarters and one in each of the states of the US

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(US Army photos)

Zone has been working with people engaged in these
activities to guide them in democratic techniques of
group actions and behavior and to help them to avoid
the danger of authoritarian and repressive measures,

Achievement is evidenced by the religious youth leader-
ship training centers which have been reopened since the
war. The Catholics, for example, are enabling 30 to
60 youth leaders every month to participate in the youth
leadership training centers in each of the 15 dioceses in
the US Zone.

That means this one major church group alone is pre-
paring between 500 and 600 trained youth leaders every
month—thus answering one of the greatest needs in
Germany today.

Because large numbers of youth in Germany today
are homeless, religious youth leaders have spear-

Organized youth activities include excursions, such as
pictured, With children and baggage safely on platform at
Ruedesheim on the Rhine, group leader gives signal to
leave railroad station on long hike to their summer camp.

--- Page 46 ---
headed a Germany-wide drive of self-help whereby youth
leaders give of their meager earnings toward cooperative
youth housing projects. In one state alone, the church
youth raised more than DM 1,000,000 for the erection of
apartment houses for homeless youth.

Youth workers between the ages of 18 and 28 have
been formed into some 40 Young Christian Worker Units
operating within many of the key industrial plants in
western Germany. They may be regarded as one of the
strongest bulwarks against possible inroads of Communism.
Their aim is to influence fellow workers,

Units exist for women as well as for men, and are ex-
panding more rapidly in Germany than any other country.
This is but a sample of similar religious youth activities
that are taking hold throughout the US Zone with the
continuous encouragement of the Office of Public Affairs.

Te COMMUNITY Activities Branch, using five short-
term ‘training schools, recently trained its 5,550th
youth leader. Schools in Berlin, Hesse, Bavaria and
Wuerttemberg-Baden are financed by the Office of the US
High Commissioner and Rockefeller Foundation, while
40 percent of finances comes from German sources.

Training courses are short-term, giving German workers
a chance to attend. The basic elements of discussion
leading, social psychology, democratic leadership and
social group work are given by American experts, three
headquarters and state commission youth officers, and
German youth leaders trained in the United States through
the exchange program.

After the war, the only youth leaders in Germany were
Nazi-trained, Heroic efforts were needed to train new
leaders for the youth groups that were bound to develop
and which would either be gangs without direction or
would gain some direction with good leadership. First,
training courses were organized. Later, schools were
started with the help of the Rockefeller Foundation and
special grants-in-aid of Military Government.

Now with five schools going, the effectiveness of HICOG
leadership training is gaining momentum. Wannseeheim

in Berlin reports 60 courses with 1,800 students; Ruit in
Wuerttemberg-Baden has had 50 courses with 1,500
students; Zudefeld School, started at Starnberg, Bavaria, in
July 1949, has had 28 courses and 750 students; Ober-
reifenberg in Hesse has had 40 courses and 1,200 students;
Haus Schwalbach in Hesse, started in July 1949, has had
12 courses and 300 students.

Special attention has been given to the provision of
books, manuals and pamphlets for youth leaders. A youth
publishing center has been established which has published
a special leadership magazine Wir Alle (We All), which is
distributed to leaders throughout the US Zone. A camping
handbook of the Hessian Camping Association has sold
5,000 copies and a second edition is to be published soon.
In addition more than 300 articles on youth leadership
have been translated into German and distributed to youth
leaders, A special circulating library makes available 9,000
books and magazines on youth activities and leadership.

NDER THE sponsorship of a board of directors of

German industrialists and labor leaders, and with the
advice and encouragement of HICOG, a self-help program
for German youth is conducting a three-point program to
help youth become self-reliant and independent,

One hundred and twenty-five youth homes are now
established in the US Zone, where wandering youth, ap-
prenticed homeless youth and some working youth live
cooperatively and govern themselves with the help of
trained educators. In the three zones of western Germany
15,000 youths now live in 308 self-help homes,

The second point of the program is to send work
students to the US where they are to work for two years
in industries not in competition with American labor, From
their earnings work siudents are to repay advance grants
so that a revolving fund can provide a continuous stream
of work students to the United States,

The third point is to establish a self-help program for
university students by means of cooperative projects to
rebuild student unions, by the establishment of a loan
fund, and of university self-help student councils, --END

ee

SPECIAL EDITION

With guidance and encouragement from HICOG, 125 youth homes in the US Zone have

43

been established to enable
wandering youth, homeless apprentices and some working youth to live cooperatively, govern themselves and become
Self-reliant and independent. Above, youth centers at, left, Urfeld am Walchensee and, right, at Bad Mergentheim,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Adult Edueation

ORE THAN 175,000 German students now attend adult

education schools in the US Zone of Germany, taking

* practical courses designed to teach the basic elements of

democratic citizenship. These courses are given by 5,200
teachers, trained with help of US experts and staff.

In 1945 the promotion of new schools for adults was
necessary since none had existed under Hitler except for
Nazi indoctrination, Far more important, however, to the
US occupation objectives has been the liberalization of
institutions — the development of schools which train
persons for active life in democratic communities.

Under the Weimar Republic, the German traditional
adult education center ‘was the Volkshochschule (adult
night school), But it failed its job in civic education
training and offered classes mainly for the intelligentsia.
Adult eduation classes really began late in 1945.

A recent report shows that by August 1949, 68 percent
of students enrolled in adult education schools were less
than 30 years of age. At least 45 percent were women.
The report shows, too, that adult education is no longer
just for the intelligentsia, for 34 percent of students are
clerical and industrial workers; 19 percent housewives
and domestics; 19 percent skilled or apprentice workers;
15 percent young people working toward high school and
college degrees; 11 percent professional people, teachers
and public officials; two percent farmers,

N EXAMINATION of tthe courses of the present adult
education schools shows they are similar to those of
any adult evening school in the United States, Liberal and
practical courses include salesmanship, advertising, women
and law, creative art, parent education, discussion tech-
niques, public forums, home - economics, intercultural
relations, shorthand and typing.
All adult education institutions are German organized
and German run, self-supporting and free of government
support. Three HICOG staff experts in adult education

guide, advise and help run training courses for adult
education teachers and administrators.

Two schools, one in Pelham, Bavaria, and the other in
Haus Schwalbach, Hesse, are under German boards of
governors but are partially supported by US government
funds, There along with special conferences of adult edu-
cation teachers, the High Commission administration does
its best work—leading to expansion of German controlled
liberalized adult education schools that train for citizenship
in a democracy.

While the foundations of a new Germany must be
laid in the young generation, it is also true that the
negative ideas of Nazism, instilled in the older generation,
must be replaced by a sense of positive personal and
social responsibility. This process has been rendered
difficult by the tendency in Germany to divide life into
separate compartments, isolated from each other.

The doctor, the lawyer, the politician, the minister, the
laborer—each has lived too much apart from the com-
munity. Because the laborer lived and thought in his own
world, he felt no responsibility for the conduct of the
politician. The pastor tended to become more of a theo-
logical theorist than a community leader. The doctor
found little relation between his profession and the social
principles of religion.

Recognizing the narrowing effect of this absence of
social consciousness, a number of agencies within Ger-
many have turned to the task of educating for community
responsibility. Since 1945 the churches have displayed
great interest, and through academies and the Volks-
bildungswerk (main office for adult education) have con-
fronted thousands of their countrymen with the social
aspects of religious teachings, Twelve such academies aye
in operation in western Germany, including four in the
US Zone,

Typical of HICOG efforts to acquaint educators with the proper use of different types of pubicity to arouse adults’
interest in furthering their education through night and special courses, was meeting (left) of adult education forum
for the Berlin school system on Oct. 25, the first of five such conferences arranged by Community Activities of the
Berlin Element of HICOG. Right, adult education directors meet at Haus Schwalbach, Wiesbaden. (Photos, US Army & PRD, OLCH)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 48 ---
NTO THE LECTURE and discussion institutes sponsored

last year by the four academies in the US Zone alone
came 5,000 persons, representative leaders in their
respective professional fields throughout Germany, For five
or six days, a group of 50 business men lived together,
studied and discussed the distinctive problems of their
profession and its relation to the welfare of the German
community. To another institute came 40 laborers, to
another 45 doctors, to others journalists, farmers, artisans,
students, housewives, lawyers or teachers.

Amid the give and take of formal and informal dis-
cussion, information was imparted and impetus provided
for the working out of religious values in practical social
action. By close association with leaders of this movement,
American advisers were able to provide encouragement
and counsel, and to arrange a study trip to the US for the
director, thus establishing international educational and
religious ties and assuring a continuing exchange of ideas
and study materials, .

To stimulate and encourage the application of basic
international religious principles in the broader world
community, a widespread study program is currently in
operation, channeling information about churches and
religious and community problems in other lands down
into the individual religious communities of Germany.
Last year 10 international interchurch conferences were
held throughout the US Zone and Berlin, and these were
followed by smaller local study conferences in which
thousands of persons took part.

O FOSTER the establishment of international religious
relations which will overcome the spiritual isolation
imposed by National Socialism and to further stimulate
the German people to participate in the world community
of nations, Military Government and subsequently the
HICOG administration have provided constant pro-
fessional assistance in these study programs. Both visiting
American and returned German consultants also have
added their experience and their active participation.
Indicative of further activity within the churches was
the series of three-month courses in religion, social prin-

i

Time out for the mid-morning meal, called the ‘‘Schulspei-
sung," school version of the Germans’ ‘second breakfast.”

ciples, the arts and social problems conducted by the
Religioeses Bildungswerk (Institution for Religious Edu-
cation) for 12,000 students; and the social and economic
studies conducted within a religious framework for more
than 60,000 persons associated in the Katholisches Werk-
volk (Organization of Catholic Working People) through-
out the US Zone. Religious leaders in Berlin last year also
conducted 13 different lecture series, all seeking to aid
men and women in finding the practical relationship
between religion and life,

Counsel and technical assistance in programming and
the use of democratic discussion techniques have been
afforded by US professional leaders, Also in each of these
fields of action, leading Germans selected and sent on
study trips to the US have returned to take part with
increased interest and broader experience in the program
of religious adult education in Germany, They have
returned to key positions in established German organi-
zation, from which vantage point their impact can be
made most effective. + END

At the Elementary Teacher Training Institute at Freising, in Bavaria, instructors conduct a discussion during a class
on college methods (left). College class in art methods (right) is crowded. Note water color materials, pencil drawing
and typical German briefcase on desk.

SPECIAL EDITION

45 INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 49 ---
e e e

Audio-Visual Aid

UPPLEMENTING FORMAL class-room instruction, par-

ticularly during the critical postwar period of school-

building reconstruction, teacher training and textbook
printing, are the radio educational broadcasts. Hundreds
of radio receivers have been distributed to schools
throughout the US-occupied areas while the four licensed
radio stations in the US Zone and the US-operated RIAS
in Berlin devote 20 to 25 hours of their monthly programs
to educational broadcasts, j

Radio Stuttgart initiated the program late in 1945 to
carry specially prepared lessons to 60,000 Wuerttemberg-
Baden school children, many of whom could not attend
school full-time because of war-damaged school buildings,
shortage of teachers and lack of shoes and clothing. A
few months later Radio Frankfurt, in cooperation with
the Hessian Ministry of Culture, began its educational
programs. RIAS, Radio Munich and Bremen followed suit.

To encourage this project, five expert consultants in
the field of radio education were brought from the United
States in’ 1947, Each worked for 90 days with German
and American radio and education authorities to set high
standards for the production and utilization of educational
radio. One consultant remained to become the radio-
education specialist in Military Government.

URTHER IMPETUS ‘was given to this program by the

procurement of 1,000 radio receivers and their dis-

tribution to schools throughout the US Zone and in the
US Sector of Berlin, Previously radio sets had been
brought to the classrooms by students from their homes
and provided by the US occupation authorities from
captured enemy stocks. Following the US purchase of
the 1,000 receivers, Radio Munich procured 300 ad-
ditional sets for Bavarian schools for distribution simul-
taneously with organization of work-study groups for
education by radio on a county and city level. This
project has been especially successful in Bavaria.

Encouraging aspects of the development of educational
radio in Germany have been the enthusiasm and readiness
with which the German educators have accepted radio
as a medium of instruction and dissemination of demo-
cratic ideas. With few exceptions the German teachers

EP

have been glad of the opportunity of using radio
broadcasts.

Even more important has been the desire of the teachers
to participate in the planning, preparation, production
and utilization of broadcasts. Radio stations have
cooperated with professional educators by appointing
either teachers or persons interested in education as
directors of their radio education departments.

NOTHER EFFECTIVE project for implementing the
reorientation program and carrying informational
material to the people is the non-theatrical film program
which reaches out to the smallest villages with document-
ary evidence of the way of life in democratic countries.
Since the beginning of this film program in 1948, ap-
proximately 500 American 16-mm sound projectors,
screens and spare-parts kits have been purchased and
distributed in Germany. Today more than 300 pro-
jectionists, many of them qualified discussion leaders,
are operating throughout the US-occupied areas of Ger-
many and approximately 70 film titles are currently
in use.

Covering a wide range of subjects, the films provide
the initiative for further discussions of history, geography,
civic education, social education, teacher training, dis-
cussion methods, educational systems, trade unions, labor
groups, health, food, agriculture and religion. These dis-
cussions serve as means of projecting the objectives of
many offices, divisions and branches of HICOG.

Being a medium with group appeal, these film programs
teach approximately 12,000,000 Germans a year, including
pupils in all types of schools, youth groups, students in
universities, adult cultural, religious and social organi-
zations. As an effective indirect medium, the films aid
in furthering the basic ideas of the school reform in the
German education system, especially in teacher training.

FTER AN INITIAL period of critical observation,

German cooperation in the accomplishment of the
program's aim has become more effective, especially in
the utilization of the films in the schools. For this reason,
the German Society for Education has established a per-
manent working committee to develop systematic future
cooperation with the film program.

Evidence of appreciation of the program was shown at
the Nuremberg conference on “Education by Radio, Film
and Textbooks" in the fall of 1949 when the 140 pro-
minent German delegates offered a unanimous vote of
thanks and made several valuable suggestions for increas-
ing the effectiveness of the program. +END

The three R's by radio—that has been one of the functions
for several years of the four licensed radio stations in the
US Zone, and the US-operated RIAS in Berlin. Helping
Germany's schools over the hump of teacher and textbook
shortages, the radio stations now devote from 20 to
25 hours monthly to educational programming. Left, students
examine Radio Frankfurt announcements of programs to
come, (US Army photo)

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 50 ---
Governmental Institutions

HE HIGH COMMISSION has a continuing responsibility

of reinforcing those democratic institutions and
organizations in German political and governmental life
which have begun to grow in the last four years, and to
that end the American element of the High Commission
has been, and is, working on nearly two score programs
covering most of the major aspects of government.

Interesting results in at least six of the 36 fields have
been recorded during the first year of Governmental
Institutions Branch, Education and Cultural Affairs
Division's activities toward removing the imprint of
autocratic or Nazi influence on German political and
governmental life. Some outstanding examples are
detailed below.

Long before the beginning of the occupation, American
educators in the social sciences recognized that a major
job would have to be done to rebuild the German
university educational programs in the social and political
sciences. Such political scientists as Carl Friedrich of
Harvard, James K. Pollock of Michigan and Quincey
Wright of Chicago have made specific recommendations
in that respect,

EGINNING IN the summer of 1949 German professors

were sent from universities in the American zone to
observe education in their fields in America. Professors
visited Harvard, Yale, Chicago and Michigan, and
returned to Germany to introduce courses in political
parties, constitutional law, preparative government and
other subjects which have not been taught in Germany
since 1933 or in some cases not at all during the twentieth
century,

Seventy-five German graduate students in public affairs
were selected last summer for a year’s training in
American universities. They were personally screened
by three American university professors to assure their
scholastic abilities, capacity for leadership and belief in
the democratic way of life. Divided into groups of 12 to
15, they are now studying at Bryn Mawr, Chicago, Duke,
Harvard, Michigan and Syracuse,

Last summer on the initiative of Prof. Carl Loewenstein,
visiting consultant from Ambherst College, the first
political science conference in German university history
was held. It was sponsored by the state ministries of
culture and justice of Hesse. Representatives of all 11
state governments of western Germany, including several
ministers of education and justice, attended. Professors
and several university presidents came from .all of the
universities of western Germany and from Berlin.

Political scientists from England, France and the US.

participated actively in the discussions.

Americans attending the conference included Prof.
Quincey Wright, president of the American Political
Science Association and professor of intermational law
at the University of Chicago; Prof. Carl Loewenstein,

SPECIAL EDITION :

Amherst College; Prof. Charles Robson, University of
North Carolina; Prof. Schattschneider, Syracuse University,
and Prof, William Sollmann, Pendell Hill, Pa,

At the conclusion of the conference a resolution was
passed recommending establishment of departments of
government in all universities. This conclusion was
arrived at by a vote of 70 to six after heated arguments
in which the opposition claimed that German universities
have been teaching politics and ethics for centuries and
have nothing to learn from abroad in this field,

An action committee chaired by the minister of culture
of Land (state) Hesse and composed of 11 other members
from German universities and state governments was
established to see that practical results accrue from the
conference. Direct channels of communication between
the committee and interested professors in the United
States are being established, and the US High Commission
will continue to give active support to university and
government officials until the objectives of this program
have become reality.

N THE FIELD of public affairs, it has been one of the

objectives of American occupation authorities since
the end of the war to assist the Germans to establish
strong independent associations which could do the type
of constructive work in government affairs done by the
Public Administration Clearing House in Chicago and by
American bureaus of government and municipal research,

The advice and recommendations of many of the top
American professionals in American government and
administraticn have been obtained and a few have been
able to come to Germany to work directly on these
problems. They include such men as George C. S. Benson,
president of Claremont Men's ‘College, California; Prof.
Taylor Cole, Duke University; Prof. Ivan Stone, Beloit
College, Wisconsin, and Prof, Roger Wells, Bryn Mawr
College.

In the summer of 1948 Dr. Wells held discussions with
representatives of all of the major municipal associations
and associations of professional government employees in
Germany. These included the city, county and town
associations as well as associations of public health,
public welfare, police, housing and civil service. He
found that there was little or no exchange of ideas among
them and that there was a great need for infusion of
democratic ideas. Most of the German officials were
receptive to his ideas for obtaining improvements in
their organizations.

In December 1948 the national Institute of Public
Affairs was established in Frankfurt. It consists of four
municipal associations and eight associations of pro-
fessional ‘government employees. These associations
represent nearly 20,000 German communities and more
than 50,000 German government employees. There are

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
now approximately 25 fulltime professional employees
working for the institute.

Every week conferences and forums are held to consider
problems of government service, such as housing and city
planning, health, welfare and public safety. At most of
these conferences one or more professionals from the
United States or a western European country are present
to compare German practices with those of other countries.
For example, on Oct.28, a conference was held on the
German housing problem to which the High Commission
was able to bring Mr, Lawrence Cox, president of the
American Association of Planning Officials, who had been
attending a United Nations conference in Geneva.

The institute, now in its 15th month, is certainly not
the strong organization which the Public Administration
Clearing House is. A major objective of the institute this
year will be to raise its professional standards and
its services to government agencies.

HE TIME-HONORED saying “A man's home is his
castle” is not generally accepted in Germany, The
police enter and search homes without warrants and
seize and hold innocent people. This system has been
under investigation and attack by American occupation
officials and a good beginning has been made toward
eliminating these practices,

Many German police officials say that effective police
administration is impossible if they change present
practices. Visits to the US have changed the viewpoints
of several police officials, however. For example, in
Hesse, a state with nearly 4,500,000 people, the head
of the police organization, after observing American
practices for three months, returned to Germany where
his first official act was to issue to all police officials
instructions which protect all citizens against police
entrance and search without warrant.

In the state of Wuerttemberg-Baden there is a law
which permits citizens to be fined who insult officials.
Even if the criticism is well founded, the citizen may
be fined if a public official decides to press charges.
Recently in a public forum sponsored by Military
Government, a citizen criticized the activities of the
local housing official. This citizen was haled into court
and fined 75 marks.

American High Commission officials have taken steps
to have this law repealed and in the meantime they
have persuaded the minister president to have instructions
issued to state and local officials telling them not to
bring any court actions pursuant to this law. It is expected
that the legislature of Wuerttemberg-Baden will repeal
this law.

IHE AVERAGE German official believes that govern-

ment matters are not the business of the general
public, One of the US occupation’s major objectives has
been, and is, to open up the administration of government
to the public view. In Frankfurt, which is being. used as
an example for other cities, discussions were held with
city officials and the contents of a 400 page budget
document was reduced to two pages of salient facts. This
material was prepared in graphic and pictorial form and
set up as a public exhibit. In two minutes’ time any

INFORMATION BULLETIN 48

person can get a bird's eye view of what the government
is costing him and what he is getting for his money.

One of last fall's programs was to send leaflets to
hundreds of local governments in the American zone
showing them how they can inform the citizens quickly
and simply on local affairs.

Unlike American legislators and counsel members, the
average German elected official is docile and accepts
the word of paid officials without searching analysis and
criticism. To teach legislators to perform their work
effectively, three schools in which each training course
lasts five days are being established in the three states of
the American zone. The first school opened Nov.7.
Several hundred legislators and counsel members will
be trained in democratic legislative practice during the
coming year.

The 36 projects in governmental affairs, of which the
foregoing examples cover only six fields, will be carried
on by a staff of five US High Commission employees,
approximately 75 specialists brought in from the US and
as many hundred Germans as can be brought into the
programs. --END

Revision of 1930 Code Sought
To Give Women Complete Equality

OMEN’S AFFAIRS officers of Hesse, Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Bavaria are assisting women’s groups in
many German communities to work out a revision of the
1930 civil code in order to provide parity of men’s and
women's rights, according to Miss Ruth F. Woodsmall,
chief, Women’s Section, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.
At present, she explained, the 1930 Civil Code (Buerger-
liches Gesetzbuch) is still in effect in western Germany
although the new Basic Law provides that “all men and
women shall have equal rights.”

Study conferences currently in progress in the states
are conducted primarily to inform the German women
on the discrepancy that exists between the present code
and the statement in the Basic Law and to enlist their
interest and support in proposing desirable revisions.

“This program,” stated Miss Woodsmall, “must in no
sense be considered the beginning of a feminist movement
in Germany, but is an evidence of a growing sense of
responsibility among women as citizens. Need for drafting
revisions is recognized in Article 117, which provides
that present codes shall remain in effect until adjusted,
but not beyond March 31, 1953.

“Drafting the necessary new legislation in a way that
will serve the best interests of Germany requires careful
study. It also requires the heip of trained and skillful
professional women and the backing of all German
citizens,”

The wide interest of women in this problem resulted in
the establishment of an “interzonal committee to study
the revision of the Civil Code” at the recent congress of
women's organizations at Bad Pyrmont. This committee
is composed of women lawyers from all parts of Germany
and leaders of organized women’s groups.

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 52 ---
NY WELL-ROUNDED PICTURE of the activities of the

Office of Public Affairs is not complete without
inclusion of the far-reaching role played by the US Resident
Officers in carrying out the reorientation mission at the
local level.

The 157 Resident Officers in the US Zone serve as the
High Commissioner's representatives within the counties
(Kreise) and are also responsible for the implementation
of the Public Affairs program, working in close relationship
with German officials and individual groups to fulfill their
tasks,

In direct contrast to his earlier functions, today's
Resident Officer expends the greater part of his time on
Public Affairs objectives cooperating with each division in
their multifarious projects within the fields of cultural
exchange, reorientation and education.

He is perhaps the individual in the occupation closest
to the grass-roots German population, and his respon-
sibilities are accordingly demanding, He is the one US
representative with whom Germans are directly and
inevitably connected.

In the last chaotic days of the war and in the early days
of the occupation the Resident Officer was known as the
Civil Affairs Officer, and later as the Military Government
Liaison and Security Officer.

SPECIAL EDITION

49

Initially they were charged with removing civil
populations from combat areas and seeing to the people's
basic welfare. In the gradual leveling off process between
war and occupation they assumed the duties of
government striving for a general re-establishment of
order out of the immediate postwar confusion.

We THE PROGRESS of the occupation and the gradual
return of the German people to conditions of normalcy,
the Military Government officer relinquished much of his
control. However, as the local representative of the United
States Government he retained his position as the final
authority on local matters of controversy.

Today, with the progress of the occupation even further
developed, the Resident Officer acts principally in an
advisory capacity. Under HICOG, with his most con-
centrated activities centered on the fields of reorientation,
he is an integral part of the Office of the High Com-
missioner’s machine and serves as the link between the
ordinary German man-in-the-street and the occupation

New England made them famous 300 years ago, but the
town meetings pictured below are taking place in German
communities in 1949. US Resident Officers, working with
town and county governments, have successfully generated
the open forum plan whereby Germans are for the first
time in years freely questioning the men who govern
them. Leit, below, eighteen hundred Germans packed the
Coburg Hofbraeuhaus for a “town meeting between US
occupation representatives and elected German officials,
Below, Resident Officer at Toelz, dressed in typical
Bavarian jacket, participates in an open forum that evoked
farmers’ cooperation in deliveries of food.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 53 ---
authorities. With wider powers turned back to the Germans
his position has assumed greater importance than ever
before.

At the grass roots the Resident Officer synchronizes the
needs of his community with the resources and specialists
provided in the Public Affairs program. Always on the
alert for reorientation possibilities within his county, he
reports all local needs for specific equipment in cultural
and reeducation fields in order that these needs may be
quickly and effectively met by available materials within
the framework of Public Affairs.

IGH ON THE LIST of accomplishments of Resident

Officers is the development of the now widely popular
town-meeting program which, together with public
forums, has become a vital part of German community
life. In the face of opposition from old-guard officialdom,
Resident Officers organized and promoted the forum idea
stressing the officials’ responsibility to the people and the
people's right and duty to question their local government.

Often leading the way by appearing on town-meeting
programs themselves, Resident Officers were followed, at
first reluctantly in most cases, by local officials who
allowed the people to question their community govern-
ment. Through these open forums, German officials have
begun to welcome the opportunity of explaining their
actions to the people while the German people have lost
their old ingrained awe of authority and are speaking
their minds to their chosen representatives for the first time
in years.

Local citizenry gather to discuss school and land reforms,
ERP’s contribution to western Germany, necessary
improvements in local government, press freedom, and

free enterprise versus the communist system. The meetings
have often resulted in definite civic improvements—milk
delivery in rural towns, more adequate street lighting,
better roads and pavements.

The Resident Officer is quick to capitalize upon
reorientation potentialities when they appear in his
community. Initiating and fostering such community
projects as aid to university students, self-help programs
for reconstruction and housing, and school feeding plans,
the Resident Officer is aiding in the overall democratiza-
tion program.

ORKING CLOSELY with Public Affairs personnel on

the state level, the Resident Officer has helped in
development of exhibits of American art, lecture series on
all phases of Americana both in US Information Centers
and in local organizations, His work calls for special stress
on youth activities and he is-in constant contact with
youth organizations and programs throughout his county.

A new program of county Resident Officers for Women's
Affairs has been introduced in some’states in the US Zone
whereby qualified American women are working on the
local level with German women and through various
methods are bringing to the traditionally passive German
housewife the realization of her role in community affairs.

As HICOG “ambassador” in the field, the Resident
Officer is the democratic salesman of democracy within
the community. In direct touch with the everyday life of
the German people he is implementing the wide range of
the Public Affairs program and is fostering within the mind
of the average German an appreciation of the American
principles of democratic thought and action. + END

Children and young adults in Esslingen assumed new roles in Youth Week festivities last summer—some as organ-

izers, some as speakers, some as costumed characters from fairy tales (below, left).

Youth week, a county-level

activity boosted by the Resident Officer, involved seven days of forums, sports events, parades, demonstrations and
group singing. A spirited amalgam of the most significant interests of youth, the Youth Week gave Esslingen's
younger generation the opportunity to run a show completely on its own, to express in its own way the goals
toward which it aims. Before the week was completed, 17 youth groups had demonstrated their ability to join cooper-
atively in a common enterprise, and a total of 50,000 persons had been spectators at the scenes of seriousness and
good fun. Below, right, one of the working committees who guided the week from its festive opening to its close
in solemn. church services.

--- Page 54 ---
SINAC A e

Information Services
Division

ONG BEFORE THE END of the shooting war in Germany, plans were mapped
for the war for mon's minds which would inevitably follow.

Twelve years of a totalitarian regime had wiped out democratic and independent
information media, even those in the entertainment world.

All the normal means of communication between man and man, all the normal
channels by which men exchange information, ideas and opinion, were in the con-
trol of the state. The result was a distorted picture of the world and of Germany's
relation to the world. The result was the creation of a nation of state-ridden citi-
zens, totally unprepared for democracy.

The first step was to smash the state apparatus and all its appendages, to close
down newspapers, news agencies, radio stations, theaters, book and re
publishing houses.

The second step was to re-establish these, a few at a time, first under Military
Government control and operation, later under the ownership and operation of
democratically-minded and trustworthy Germans. As the latter showed that they
were working in the interest of a democratic Germany, they were given greater
and greater freedom. Controls were progressively lifted and measures available
within occupation directives were taken to strengthen their enterprises.

In line with fundamental policy of the United States and accepted democratic tra-
ditions, the ultimate goal was freedom in all information media to the extent that
this exists in the United States, Great Britain and other democratic nations.

That goal has not been reached nor can it be reached under an occupation.

But with formation of a German federal government the information services pro-
gram in Germany entered a new phase.

OST OF THE REMAINING controls. over the German information services

were lifted. Radio, except for RIAS in Berlin, was in the hands of Germans.
The licensing system in the press and publications field was abandoned. These
and other information media were thrown open to all Germans. There was a great
but not alarming rush to take advantage of this.

The need to combat the totalitarian ideas which yet remain is still compelling.
And it is being met. To smash one form of totalitarianism and to allow another to
spring up in its place would mean the waste of all the time, funds and effort spent
during the past five years in creating a democratic Germany.

Thus, the program that was mapped out even before hostilities ended, is continu-
ing with all the skill and energy that experts in the various information fields can
bring to bear on the problem. + END

Sul 000000

SPECIAL EDITICN 51 INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 55 ---
—e Publications

HY THE United States aids and encourages the esta-
blishment of independent and democratic newspaper,
book and periodical publishing enterprises in Germany:

It is a fundamental policy of the United States that
democracy can only function properly and ‘survive when
the people of a nation have free access to accurate and
truthful information on local, national and world affairs
from a wide variety of sources.

It is a fundamental policy of totalitarian states that
their existence and power can only be maintained by the
ruthless suppression, manipulation and control of news,
information, ideas and public opinion.

Out of the conflict of these two irreconcilable beliefs grew
the program of the United States Government in Germany,
a program in newspaper, periodical and book publishing
which began even before hostilities ended in 1945 and is
now being carried forward to achieve the ultimate goal—
the firm establishment of independent and democratic
publishing media in a democratic Germany.

The conflict between democratic and totalitarian prin-
ciples and practices in the newspaper, news agency, book
and periodical fields in Germany is far from ended. The
Nazi propaganda complex of state-controlled newspapers,
news agencies, press bureaus and newspaper, book and
magazine cartels was destroyed swiftly, almost at the
instant that hostilities ceased.

In less than five years of occupation, the nucleus of a
responsible, independent and democratic press and of
independent and democratic book and periodical publish-
ing media has been established. A start has been made
toward changing the reading habits of the German people

INFORMATION BULLETIN

who for 12 years read only what the totalitarian Nazi
state wanted them to read,

But the two opposing and irreconcilable conceptions of
the place of newspaper, book and periodical publishing in
modern society—the democratic belief and the totalitarian
belief—still exist, side by side, in a divided Germany.
To strengthen and encourage the one belief and to
weaken or destroy the other, is part of the continuing
program of the United States in Germany.

Germany's press needs trained reporters—most of the
former experienced newspapermen had been working for
the Nazi-controlled press and therefore were unacceptable,
or had been separated from their profession, through exile
or in concentration camps, during the years of the Nazi
regime, To fill this need, the Abendzeitung (Evening News-
paper) in Munich started its School of Journalism. Photo
at top of page shows candidates for admission to the school
witnessing a model interview between a police official and
a veteran reporter. Below is a section of the International
Press Exhibition in Munich in 1949 showing charts compar-
ing the licensed press of the four occupation zones and Berlin.

--- Page 56 ---
HAT THE United States has accomplished in the four
years of occupation.

German newspaper and other publishers have been
assisted and encouraged to establish and maintain demo-
cratic and independent publications which will resist the
encroachment of government or other special interest
groups and accept and carry out their responsibility to a
democratic Germany by combatting totalitarian ideas and
bringing to the German people the widest possible flow
of information, ideas, news and opinion on local, national
and world affairs,

They have been assisted and encouraged to adopt the
best accepted democratic practices in the newspaper,
news agency, book and periodical fields, and to combat
attempts of government or political, economic and other
groups to control their enterprises or their output.

They have been encouraged to accept and use to an
increasing extent information material intended to offset
trends prejudicial to the United States and occupation
objectives and to induce in the Germans favorable attitudes
towards the United States, its institutions and policies.

They have been encouraged and assisted and supported
in efforts to form strong, effective publishers’ associations
which will protect independent and democratic publishing
enterprises against totalitarian or other attacks and have
been assisted in re-establishing contacts with their
colleagues in the United States and democratic European
countries, in obtaining reference books and other needed
publications in their fields, and in establishing training
projects, particularly in. the field of journalism,

They have been guided and supported in the fight to
obtain press laws which will protect rather than restrict
the freedom and independence of publishing enterprises
and to combat legislative, judicial, executive or other
attempts to abridge or circumvent freedoms guaranteed in
the German constitution and press laws.

RIOR TO abandonment of the licensing system by
means of which totalitarian-minded Germans were kept

Re-establishment

of newspapers
brought jobs back to many like this veteran printer. Offi-
cially-compiled statistics show that, in the western zones,
printers are the highest-paid workers in Germany today.

and book publishing

SPECIAL EDITION

Abendzeitung journalism students are both perplexed
and amused as they compare news assignments drawn by
lot. They were required to obtain and write stories within
three hours in test of their resourcefulness and ingenuity.

out of the publishing field, democratically-minded and
politically-trustworthy Germans were selected to found
the new German press and re-establish the book and
periodical industry in the US Zone and the US Sector of
Berlin.

Sixty-one newspapers were founded, their staffs selected
and trained, their publishers and editors guided and
assisted; the DENA news agency was established and
licensed to the newspaper publishers as a cooperative
similar to the Associated Press; more than 600 book and
periodical publishers were licensed and given substantial
assistance in re-establishing the once famous German
publishing industry. DENA merged in late 1949 with the
news agency of the British Zone to form DPA (Deutsche
Presse Agentur or German Press Agency).

Active and effective steps were taken to obtain trans-
lation and publishing rights for American books and to
piace these. Some 400 books thus were made available to
German book publishers; 150 of these already have
appeared in editions of from 5,000 to 10,000 each.

Nearly 1,300 magazine articles originating in the United
States and useful in ‘the reorientation and reeducation
program in Germany have been published. Normal com-
mercial channels are used to provide German readers
with books and articles in German which will aid in
establishing a democratic Germany.

NE OF THE most effective measures undertaken was

the sending of 36 newspaper, book and periodical
publishers and editors to the United States for a period
of two months in order to improve their professional skills
and stimulate their democratic development. The first trip
of 15 newspaper and periodical editors and publishers:
was financed by the Rockefeller Foundation in 1948; the
second trip in 1949 of 21 newspaper editors, publishers
and reporters and five book and magazine publishers and
editors was financed from Military Government reorienta-
tion funds. Sponsors were the American Press Institute at

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

53

--- Page 57 ---
Columbia University, the American Book Publishing
Council and leading American newspapers and news
agencies,

The success of the cultural exchange program, not only
in sending Germans to the United States but also in bring-
ing American newspaper and publishing experts to Ger-
many to aid in the democratization program has been
more than enough to warrant its continuance, The care-
fully selected German editors and publishers who met
with leading American editors and publishers and worked
at leading American newspapers and news agencies wrote
of their experiences in democratic America and then
returned to lead public forums and group meetings in
Germany to pass on what they had learned about Ameri-
can democracy and their own professional fields in
America,

One American expert in journalism, Dean Vernon Mc-
Kenzie, who held meetings with more than 100 German
editors, publishers and reporters, urged the retention of
sufficient trained American personnel to insure that the
start that has been made toward a democratic press in *
Germany will continue. He was particularly interested in
the journalism training project established at the Munich
newspaper Abendzeitung with American aid and re-
commended that encouragement and financial assistance
be given to setting up at least two more practical schools
of journalism similar to the Abendzeitung project. The
latter is a German project, conducted with full support
and aid from occupation authorities, and is financed from
profits of the Abendzeitung.

One of the main obstacles to the development of the
democratic press in Germany from the beginning has been
the lack of professionally trained and qualified journalists.
This was inevitable since only journalists who were
subservient to totalitarian practices in the press field
could work at their profession during the Nazi regime.
Journalistic training projects are intended to overcome
this obstacle,

HAT REMAINS to be done in the important field of
press and publications,

Although there was gradual relaxation of controls so
that the Germans have had a nearly free press for at least
two years, formation of the Western German government
and abandonment of all licensing now has thrown this
important field open to all comers, Communists and Nazis
included. Nearly 300 newspapers have sprung up since
licensing was abandoned and the prospect is that many
more will be started in the coming months,

The task of scrutinizing all the newspapers now being
produced in the US Zone, of meeting with and advising
the editors and publishers to the extent that this is possible
and guarding the prestige and security of the United States
authorities in Germany or offsetting prejudicial attacks,
has been tremendously increased.

Attempts to win the new publications to the democratic
point of view and combat any resurgence of totalitarianism
are being made but the magnitude of the task is seen in
the fact that there is only one press officer and one publi-
cations officer in all of Bavaria, the same number in Hesse
INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

~_Paffauer Neue Pref

ZEITUNG

Sate

en Rao

septs ete enema

Publishers and editors were carefully screened Belore
licenses were granted in the US Zone. Mastheads are of
just four of scores of dailies permitted to appear in the
first four postwar years before licensing was abolished.

and Wuerttemberg-Baden and one officer to perform both
functions in Bremen, two in Berlin.

Actions against flagrant violators of the new Allied High
Commission Press and Radio Ordinance (Law No, 5) and
publications which exhibit dangerous trends may serve to
prevent a resurgence of totalitarianism practices, But this
will require constant vigilance of the small but highly
trained staff of press and publications experts,

NLY TIME will tell whether the nucleus of an
dependent and democratic press and the independent
and democratic book and magazine publishers will be

in-

- able to survive in competition with the newer papers and

publications, many of them owned and edited by Germans
whose past political records excluded them from these
fields until licensing was abandoned,

One great task is to protect the democratically-minded
and carefully selected newspaper publishers in possession
of the printing plants, most of which were seized from
Nazi owners when the licensing program was underway
from 1945 to 1948, That is possible now because super-
vision of the lease-contracts under which they hold
possession is under the Newspaper Leases Review Board,
a quasi-legal body established by Military Government
and continued by HICOG. Continuance of the Review
Board may serve to protect democratic newspapers against
attempts by plant owners to void lease contracts.

If these publishers can survive and others can be won
over, there is every assurance that the German people
will have access to the widest flow of news and infor-
mation which a variety of news and information sources
can bring them, And with the material at hand from which
to form their own opinions, the German people will be
able to take an active and intelligent part in creating a
democratic Germany. -++ END

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 58 ---
US Feature Service

HE OVERALL MISSION of US Feature Service in
Germany can be summed up in five words: “to tell
the American story.”

From this information fountainhead, known in Germany
as Amerika Dienst, 50,000 words and more than 100 pictures
and illustrations go out each week to sell the US story
to the three western zones of Germany, the Saar region
and Berlin,

The US Feature Service was established in Nuremberg
as part of Information Services Division in August 1948,
and moved to Bad Nauheim early in 1949. Today, a staff
of four Americans and 50 Germans handles the eight ser-
vices distributed by US Feature Service to newspapers,
periodicals, press agencies, radio stations, information
centers, libraries, colleges and universities, doctors and
hospitals, Likewise, special requests are handled with the
same precision.

From the outset, US Feature Service has devoted itself
to filling Germany's great informational void with hard
facts supplemented by charts and pictures. It doesn't matter
so much that the Empire State Building is the tallest in the
world or that the United States has the greatest auto-
motive industry. What matters more is that the farmers in
Nebraska and Iowa work from dawn to dark during the
harvest season, just as the farmers in Germany do, And
that the overall problems of Americans and Germans are
those common to our Western civilization.

When US Feature Service was established, a few basic
tules were laid down and have been enforced rigidly
ever since. Among them are:

1, Amerika Dienst would be a background, feature and
general information service, non-competitive with the
commercial wire agencies delivering spot news to
Germany,

2, There would be no charge for Amerika Dienst material
and no credit-lines would be required by users, but the
service could not be redistributed on a commercial basis.

3. The service would be strictly factual and informative,

Amerika Dienst is convinced the Germans are hungry
for the truth and believes in making factual information
available to as much of the population as can be reached
through normal outlets—newspapers, periodicals, existing
radio channels, films and the rest.

To those who believe that the American heritage and
way of life are worthy of dignified, forthright presentation,
the acceptance of the Amerika Dienst by German news-
papers and other recipients should be gratifying.

HILE THE SOVIET overt and controlled press and

radio raised their voices in daily vilification, the
Amerika Dienst devoted its energies to bringing the in-
formation-hungry Germans factual accounts of the US
elections and electoral system, the origin and development
of the free trade unions in the United States, the living
standard of US citizens under a free economy, the pre-
servation of civil liberties in the United States and the
story of the free American press,

As the service grew, the distribution list was extended
first to the British Zone press, then to the French Zone,
ECA Information Headquarters in Paris requested that
newspapers in the Saar region and Luxembourg be added,

Today, this is how Amerika Dienst operates: Into the
central news office each week flows an average of 200,000
words of news, information and background material on
the United States from these sources: The Department of
State's Office of International Information, various other
departments of the US government in Washington, the
ECA information offices in Paris and Frankfurt, and US
High Commission sources in Germany. In addition, US
Feature Service maintains its own radio monitoring unit to
record State Department radio bulletins and the Voice of
America,

From the vast mass of source material is selected that
which is considered of interest to Germany. This material

Speed and efficiency characterize the operalions of US Feature \Service, whose headquarters are at Bad Nauheim,

near Frankfurt. Left, teletypes expedite the day's output of copy to the leading newspapers.

Right, the Department

of State's daily Wireless Bulletin is monitored and transcribed. A large percentage of this information on US domestic
and foreign policy goes to German newspapers through the Amerika Dienst, promoting better understanding of US aims.

--- Page 59 ---
Redaktion Bad Nauheim, Goethestrasse 4

“AMERIKA DIENST”

U. S. Feature Service

“Fir die Frau”
Geistiges Leben
Allgemeines
Wirtschaft
Landwirtschaft

Telefon 2041/486

Composite picture shows five of the numerous German-language jeature services issued daily by “Amerika Dienst,”
whose steadily-growing output of informative material is finding its way into more and more newspapers’ columns.

is then “‘put together” in English in story or article form,
translated into German, rewritten and distributed.

HE AMERIKA DIENST is unique in that it brings to

Germans all American feature and background
material in their own terms, In other words, every story
is rewritten by carefully-selected and trained editors in
such manner that it is immediately and directly usable by
German editors, The peculiarities of German newspaper
style and the calculated background knowledge of the
reader are carefully considered.

The same technique is followed in the preparation of
magazine articles for distribution to German periodicals
by another section of Editorial Projection Branch, Copy-
rights & Periodicals Servicing Section.

Still another section, German Affairs, concentrates on
“special” articles for the German press, frequently
illustrated, to tell specific and often technical parts of
the ‘American story."

The fourth section, that devoted to Eastern affairs, con-
centrates on a 24-page German-language weekly bulletin
exposing the problems posed by world communism and
the efforts of the democratic nations to meet these
problems. The distribution list has grown to 1,500 key
German editors, political leaders and other specialists in
Eastern problems.

The newsroom output of US Feature Service emphasizes
US editorial comment on current news, brief biographical
sketches of American personalities as they appear in the
news, all available information on the Marshall Plan and
other background material not generally carried by
commercial wire agencies. Texts of important speeches
and documents are ‘musts.’

MERIKA DIENST’S mail service is far more exten-

sive in its scope of coverage. On a regular schedule,
Amerika Dienst distributes three times weekly basic back-
ground and feature reports averaging 3,500 words each.
These reports regularly include surveys of US editorial
opinion on current events. Other regular features are
articles on “Life in the USA,” science, economics, art,
book reviews and profiles of leading American per-
sonalities,

Amerika Dienst in addition has become one of the main
information outlets for the European Recovery Program.
Between Aug. 12, 1948, and June 25, 1949, there were
145 articles, totaling 45,870 words, carried on various
Marshall Plan aspects and developments. This output was

INFORMATION BULLETIN

supplemented by 12 charts and graphs and more than
50 photographs of Marshall Plan goods and officials.

Once each week, the Women’s Service is distributed
by mail. In its unique American way of stressing the role
of women in politics and culture, together with helpful
household hints and other items of particular feminine
interest, the Women's Service has become a novelty in
Germany. The other Amerika Dienst services are: Cultural
and Educational (semi-monthly); Agricultural (semi-month-
ly); Medical and Surgical (monthly); Economic (monthly),
and Special Documentary (whenever speeches and im-
portant documents are available).

Whenever possible, articles and feature stories are
accompanied by explanatory photographs, graphs and
charts.

HE PRINCIPAL target of Amerika Dienst is, of course,

the German press. But the service also goes to all
western German radio stations, to the US Information
Centers, where copies are kept on display in libraries,
and to selected individuals such as free-lance writers and
commentators. Other recipients include small feature
agencies, governmental agencies and trade unions.

The regular mailing list includes nearly 1,000 addressees
throughout western Germany and western Berlin.

Here is what might be described as “evidence of
effectiveness" during three months of 1949:

September: Newspapers and publications throughout
western Germany and the Saar region voluntarily sub-
mitted clippings carrying a total of 136,100 words and
45 pictures distributed by US Feature Service. Twenty
newspapers additionally carried 87,040 words of USFS
newsroom material for a grand total of 223,140.

August: A total of 164 newspapers and periodicals
voluntarily submitted clippings with 123,985 words of
Amerika Dienst material in print. Thirty-five pictures were
printed by 16 publications. By special request, 1,418
pictures were sent to 389 individual addressees. The
German news agency, DENA, accepted for distribution
121 of 223 items offered by the USFS newsroom.

July: Clippings were received showing 71,695 words
and 17 photos in print. The newsroom additionally placed
23,290 words for an overall monthly wordage total
of 94,985.

Those who have followed the growth of Amerika Dienst
have found that facts are the strongest US propaganda
weapon in Germany. To “tell the American story” is in
teality to “sell” it. --END

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 60 ---
Spieds

Safe in dor OED

Publishing Operations

HE NEED for the United States to tell its story directly
to the German people without relying entirely on the
uncertainties of German editorial selection was recognized
early in the occupation, A newspaper and three magazines
made their appearance in September and October of 1945.
They were Die Neue Zeitung, a twice weekly newspaper;
HEUTE, originally a monthly and now a bi-weekly pic-
torial magazine; Amerikanische Rundschau, a magazine
issued every two months to appeal to intellectual leaders
in literary, scientific and other fields; and Neue Auslese,
a joint British-American digest magazine.

The objectives of these US-sponsored and operated
publications were to take a positive approach in support-
ing US occupation and foreign policies and to disseminate
accurate political and other information about the United
States and other democracies as a means of combatting
totalitarianism.

In the intervening years, Die Neue Zeitung has expanded
to three daily editions, published in Munich, Frankfurt
and Berlin; HEUTE now appears as a bi-weekly; and a
new political review, Der Monat, with a vigorous anti-
Communist line, was started in October 1948.

All of these publications as well as the Munich printing
plant which carries on a tremendous printing operation
are under the supervision of Publishing Operations Branch
of Information Services Divison, HICOG.

URRENCY REFORM, ins‘ituted in the summer of 1948,
had a devastating effect upon the high circulation
and income of all publications in Germany. As a result,
extra precautions have been taken to place all United

SPECIAL EDITION

States German-language publications and the Munich
printing plant on as sound a financial basis as possible.

At present, the Munich and Frankfurt editions of the
Neue Zeitung have a circulation of 130,000 each, the Berlin
edition a circulation of 40,000, Daily editorial conferences
insure that the editorial voice of the occupation speaks
with authority and uniformity. Measures are being taken
to increase circulation but the great obstacle is that since
currency reform the number of Germans who buy two
newspapers—Die Neue Zeitung in addition to the local
German paper—has greatly decreased.

The Neue Zeitung has, throughout its existence, given
authoritative expression to the policies of the United
States and its occupation force, has brought accurate
news of America and the world to the German people
and at the same time has established a high reputation
for cultural coverage. It has led in the day-to-day task
of combatting totalitarianism in all its forms,

In carrying out its mission as an example of the best in
US journalism, the paper broke with German tradition by
establishing an editorial page where opinion was sharply
separated from news. Experienced American newsmen
inaugurated modern methods of factual reporting among
the German staff and presented a balanced ratio of
American and world news and views along with German
news and opinion.

HEUTE, with circulation of 650,000, is roughly equiv-
alent in design and appearance to Look magazine. Through
pictures and stories it brings the German people in-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
formation about the United States and the American
point of view on world developments, is directed to a
large reading: public and has had a decided influence on
German-owned picture magazines, It uses articles and
pictures in the fields of literature, politics, history,
science, youth and women’s activities,

After four years of publication, the magazine has won
German acceptance as the outstanding picture magazine
in the western zones, Published every second Wednesday,
HEUTE has been instrumental in setting high standards for
German magazines. It presents world news in words and
pictures as well as opinions of leading personalities of
many countries, It is noted for printing the critical views
of its own readers and provides a special appeal to women
and youth through carefully chosen stories and illustra-
tions reflecting their activities in the world at large.

ER MONAT is designed to appeal to editors, uni-

versity students and professors, political parties,
church, government and trade union leaders and to the
film, theater and literary worlds, It is vigorously anti-
totalitarian, publishes a large proportion of material from
international sources and stimulates discussion on inter-
national issues. Present circulation is 50,000 with a
number sent into the Soviet Zone and Austria. Some
5,000 copies are distributed free of charge to universities,
libraries, reading rooms and selected individuals,

According to its prospectus, Der Monat is intended "to
offer the German reading public an important link with
the outside world of ideas and controversy, exposing the
readers to international influences, making the record of
both American and European political and cultural
achievement understandable and impressive, clarifying the
basic issues of the day which divide the free world from
the totalitarian state..." Contributors to the magazine
have included such leading literary figures as Thomas
Mann, Arnold Toynbee, Thornton Wilder, Jean-Paul Sartre
and Arthur Koestler.

AMERIKANISCHE RUNDSCHAU, with circulation now
of about 18,000, is designed to demonstrate the high
quality of American literary production, carries articles
which will appeal to leaders in the various professional
fields, reprints exciusively from American books and

This is the “Munich,” first high-speed rotary press com-
pleted by the MAN plant in Augsburg since the end of
the war. Press weighs more than 250 tons and can

produce 25,000 copies of a 96-page edition an hour. This
was obtained specially for the Munich edition of “Die Neue
Zeitung" which had previously been printed on a press
salvaged from the war-damaged publishing house building.

A test-run copy of “Die Neue Zeitung's“ Munich edition,
picturing the new press (pictured below) on which it was
printed across four columns of its front page.

magazines except for original articles. It presents a high
level cross-section of the best that America produces in
scholarly fields, carries many articles specifically intended
to aid in the creation of democratic Germany.

It is edited and translated in New York and printed in
Munich, Principal sources for subject matter are Foreign
Affairs, Virginia Quarterly, Yale Review, Harper's, Atlantic,
Partisan Review, Kenyon Review and other magazines
aimed at an intellectual audience, Typical of the maga-
zine's content are contributions by such outstanding
American writers as Stephen Vincent Benet, Archibald
MacLeish and Joseph Wood Krutch.

EUE AUSLESE, circulation 65,000 in American Zone

and 37,000 in British Zone, is jointly edited by
American and British editorial staffs in London, is a
reprint publication entirely, devoted to international
articles which will acquaint the German audience with
the thinking and writing of the outside world. With a much
wider reader appeal than the Rundschau, the Neue Aus-
Jese has reprinted articles from such well-known maga-
zines as Harpers, Saturday Evening Post, New Statesman,
Nation and La France Libre,

All of the occupation powers in Germany carry on
extensive publishing operations to tell their story to the
Germans. The battle for readers is particularly fierce in
Berlin. The newspapers and magazines, as well as the
special pamphlets and booklets, which the United States
prints and distributes in Germany offer the only ab-
solutely sure channel of communication between occu-
pation authorities and the Germans,

In purely German publications, under the United States
policy of ever-expanding freedom, news of America and
news of the occupation must take its place in the com-
petitive market with all other news.

Thus, America’s story is being told directly and author-
itatively through the publishing operations of the United
States in Germany. -+END

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 62 ---
"MUNICH

IAS, THE AMERICAN Radio Station in Berlin, enjoys

the unique distinction of being the only American
broadcasting station behind the Iron ‘Curtain. As such it
is a symbol of Freedom striking hard at the heart of
totalitarianism,

RIAS came into being in the early part of the experiment
in quadripartite occupation of Germany, By the time the
Western Allies entered Berlin in mid-1945, the Soviets
had the city's broadcasting station, Radio Berlin, in full
operation under their control and political direction.
Frequent and persistent attempts throughout the autumn
of 1945 were made by the other three occupying powers
to negotiate the turn-over of Radio Berlin to quadripartite
control. When it became apparent that the Soviets would
not relinquish unilateral control of Radio Berlin, the US
authorities decided to open their own station on a small,
but not directly competitive, scale,

This station went into operation Feb. 7, 1946 as “Draht-
funk in American Sector," using the Drahtfunk (wired
radio) method of longwave transmission over telephone
lines with programs daily from 5 p. m, to midnight. The
Drahtfunk system of transmission had been used ex-
tensively by the Germans during the war as means of
broadcasting during air raids when the German radio
stations went off the air to avoid providing beams into’
Berlin for Allied bombers.

ROGRAMS OF the American station were first trans-

mitted in the US Sector, then extended a few months
later to the British Sector in an exchange agreement with
the British, Attempts to make the Drahtfunk a city-wide
service failed because of the Soviets’ firm application of
their own principle of propaganda: complete government
control over all information media and the dissemination
of only such information or distortions as might be of
assistance to the controlling power.

US occupation authorities, still pressing for quadri-
Partite contro] of Radio Berlin on various levels in the
Allied Control Authority, warned that the Soviet attitude
was forcing the Americans to bring in a transmitter and
broadcast to the entire population of the city, This

The new home of RIAS in the borough of Schoeneberg,
in the US Sector of Berlin, was renovated in 1948.

SPECIAL EDITION

R-1-A-S

Only American Radio Station

Behind The Iron Curtain

action was finally taken, and a mobile 1,000 watt trans-
mitter was moved to Berlin from Frankfurt and placed
in operation Sept. 5, 1946, The program schedule was
expanded to nine hours daily and 13 hours on Sundays,
and the station, going on the air as a full-fledged radio
station, underwent the slight change in name and became
the “Rundfunk im Amerikanischen Sektor” (Radio in the
American Sector) or RIAS.

RIAS' programs featured news, special features and
Voice of America broadcasts which emphasized democratic
objectivity in juxtaposition to the Soviet-controlled Radio
Berlin's one-sided presentation. The special features included
round-table discussions and political broadcasts which
illustrated the principle of freedom of expression, in sharp
contrast to Radio Berlin's favoring of first the Communists,
then the SED, the so-called Socialist Unity Party,

HE TECHNICAL service of the station was_ still

considered inadequate and plans for improvement in
RIAS coverage of Greater Berlin were put into effect. The

--- Page 63 ---
power was increased to 2,000 watts by installation of a
new German transmitter late in 1946 and to 20,000 watts
on June 1, 1947, by installation of a captured German
army transmitter.

Meanwhile.the station had outgrown its original quarters
in a wing of the Telephone Exchange Building and had
spread to two other buildings nearby, Reconstruction of
a building large enough to house the studio and other
facilities needed for expansion was undertaken in the
autumn of 1947, The -staff moved into the new quarters
during the winter and spring, and formally opened: the
building July 1, 1948, ;

In March of 1946 the station had expanded its airtime
from nine to 12 hours daily on weekdays with a full
day's schedule on Sundays. Gradually additiona] hours
were added until the present regular daily broadcast
schedule of 21/4 hours was reached. Throughout the
blockade of Berlin the station ‘was on 24 hours a day,
the extra two and one-half hours having been added at
the request of the US Air Force to maintain the RIAS
signal day and night as a beam for the airlift planes
bringing relief to the city,

XPANSION OF RIAS facilities kept pace with the

increasing importance of the station’s mission. While
the station at the beginning was concerned with the
presentation of American attitudes to the people of Berlin
as a means of countering Soviet propaganda, it soon became
apparent that the mission of RIAS was to inform not only
the population of the city but also the people of the entire
Soviet Zone of Germany. Thus, RIAS had to compete fully
and directly with the powerful and excellently equipped
Soviet-controlled Eastern Zone radio networks; with
Radio Berlin, its staff of 1,000 and its 100,000-watt trans-
mitter; with Radio Leipzig, its similarly large staff and
transmitter; and with the provincial sub-stations such as
Weimar, Potsdam, Dresden, Halle, Magdeburg and
Schwerin, each with small local staffs and 20,000-watt
transmitters.

One of RIAS' three speakers’ studios, Outside walls are of
double thickness of brick with air space in between,
further soundproofed by 18 inches of rock wool. Windows
all are of triple glass which keeps out traffic noises.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 60

“tional antenna designed to

RIAS was beset with the grave problem
of broadcasting on shared frequencies, no
clear channel having been available. Increase
of transmitter power made it possible for
the station to be heard well in and near
Berlin but not deep in the southern portion
of the Soviet Zone. A booster station for
RIAS was opened at Hof in northern Bavaria
on Nov. 1, 1948 to relay RIAS programs with
a 20,000-watt captured German army mobile
transmitter beamed to cover the southern
portion of the Soviet Zone.

The extremely heavy use of the 20,000-watt
RIAS transmitter in Berlin
caused frequent breakdowns
due to the fact that it was
old and oft-repaired equip-
ment. A more powerful
German transmitter was
purchased in January 1949
and placed on the air in
daytime service July 19, 1949,
pending erection of a direc-

eliminate interference of
RIAS with Belgrade, Yugo-
slavia, on the frequency of
686 kilocycles.

N THE FIRST few months

of the operation of the
station with the Drahtfunk
system of transmission, re-
ception was poor, as iilus-
trated by the letters of com-
plaint from Berliners who
were unable to pick up the
broadcasts. By testing, by
assiduous work, kinks in
the system were removed.
Faulty, worn telephone lines
underwent repairs, and grad-
ually the reception to all
parts of Berlin was greatly
improved and extended.

A public opinion survey conducted in the US and British
sectors of Berlin during the last two weeks of October
1946, about six weeks after installation of the 1,000-watt
transmitter, showed that 16 percent of the radio audience
preferred RIAS to Radio Berlin, which was then tops with
67 percent and NWDR-Berlin (Berlin station of the British-
sponsored Northwest German Radio) with 13 percent.

Two months after the installation of the 20,000-watt
transmitter on June 1, 1947, a public opinion survey con-
ducted in the western sectors of Berlin showed that RIAS'
popularity had jumped 100 percent to an equal footing
with Radio Berlin, each having 34 percent of the radio
audience.

One year later, in August 1948, another survey in the
western sectors of Berlin showed that 80 percent of the

RIAS tower snapped by
enterprising photographer
as an Airlift C-54 wings its
way over Berlin to a Jand-
ing at Tempelhof airfield.

SPECIAL EDITION

Sk lh oem et ol i Hie

--- Page 64 ---
radio audience considered RIAS their favorite station,
10 percent favored NWDR-Berlin and five percent preferred

Radio Berlin.

IX MAY 1949, a public opinion survey of the westem
sectors of Berlin showed that RIAS' popularity had

jumped to 91 percent of the radio audience.

While it has not been possible to conduct public opinion
surveys in the Soviet Zone due to conditions normal in
Iron Curtain areas, the indications are that the popularity
trend favoring RIAS in Berlin is duplicated in the eastern
zone, These indications are contained in private reports
available to various organizations in Berlin, by reaction
to RIAS broadcasts in the Soviet Zone press, radio and
official SED circies,

The reaction includes a recent speech by the SED
minister of the interior in Saxony suggesting that the
Soviet military authorities take action against RIAS as a
dangerous enemy of the so-called “people's democracy.”
Likewise, the growing effect can be measured by the
intensity of the vilification! in the following excerpts from
the Soviet Zone press:

“The sounder the new social order in the east zone has
become in the last few months, the more RIAS has in-
creased its anti-communist agitation in newscasts and
commentaries, It is indubitable that these broadcasts do
not reflect the feelings of the people of West Germany,
but were fashioned in the camp of the imperialistic war-
mongers, who feel the ground beginning to tremble under
their feet."—Jenaer Universitaets-Zeitung (Jena University
Newspaper), July 20, 1949.

“For the enemies of German unity and democratic recon-
struction, among whom the lie-transmitter RIAS is to be
numbered, the truth has become a useless tool.""—Leipziger
Volkszeitung (Leipzig People’s Newspaper), June 5, 1949.

“These are the methods of RIAS, that great lover of
truth and ardent champion of the American way of life.
Lies, vilification and blackmail are the means that these
opportunistic Western democrats use to mislead the
German people."—Taegliche Rundschau, Soviets’ official
German-language newspaper in Berlin, Oct. 15, 1949 (com-
menting on the case of Starke, whom RIAS denounced
as an informer),

One of the.most important public services performed by
RIAS during the Soviet-imposed blockade of Berlin was
the dissemination of news to West Berliners who were
without electricity at least 20 hours out of each 24 and so
unable to tune in on most of the newscasts in RIAS'
vastly-stepped up schedule. Employing trucks with loud
Speakers and operating on regular schedules at specified
strategic street corners and in the many large squares not
only of the US Sector, but subsequently in the British
and French Sectors as well, RIAS literally carried the
news of the hour to its public. It became habit for
blockaded Berliners to gather to await the coming of a
RIAS loud-speaker truck, such as that pictured at right,
both’ day and night, and often braved tain, snow
and hail to learn of what was going on—both in their
blockaded city and in the outside world with which its
only contacts were the radio news reports so relayed to
them, (Photo by Bankhardt)

SPECIAL EDITION

61

“Last Sunday the liar RIAS broadcast an appeal to the
West German population which is the zenith of hypocritical
demagogy and criminal warmongering, In this appeal the
West German population is asked to send 18,000,000
packages every month to their 18,000,000 brothers in
the east zone.'"—Freie Presse (Free Press), Zwickau,
Oct. 6, 1949.

IAS HAS FOUR American employees who supervise
the German staff of some 650 producers, writers,
artists, technicians and administrative personnel organized
to meet the special conditions of European broadcasting.
RIAS has an economy budget of DM 917,000 monthly, re-
presenting a reduction from about DM 1,200,000 last spring.
RIAS' primary competitor, Radio Berlin, has a staff of
about 1,000 and unlimited funds,

Radio Frankfurt, Radio Stuttgart and Radio Munich each
operate with staffs ranging from 700 to 900 employees and
monthly budgets considerably in excess of DM 1,000,000,
These stations as well as Radio Berlin are comparable
with RIAS in that routine operations are of the same size
and expense.

The Nordwestdeutsche Rundfunk (Northwest German
Radio—NWDR—network in the British Zone) has ap-
proximately 2,000 employees and a monthly budget of
DM 5,000,000. -++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
German Radio

MERICAN RADIO broadcasting specialists are engaged

in the continuing task of rehabilitating German radio
in a democratic mold as an important factor in the re-
orientation of the German people.

During four years of the occupation, the German radio
stations in the US Zone were slowly, painstakingly re-
created as public service broadcasting organizations free
of domination by governmental, political or any other
special interests—an exemplification of the US policy of
freedom of expression, sharply in contrast to the totali-
tarian radio to which the populace had become accustomed
during the Nazi regime.

These four radio stations, Radio Frankfurt, Radio Stutt-
gart, Radio Munich and Radio Bremen, were turned over
to German management in ceremonies which began in
January 1949 and ended in July 1949,’ but the responsi-
bility for maintaining their independence was not thereby
relinquished,

T FALLS on the Office of the High Commissioner for
Germany to maintain constant observation of the per-
formance of these radio stations to assure that the freedom
granted is not misused and that those responsibilities given
to the Germans are properly borne.

Experience during the comparatively short period of
German management of the stations has shown the ten-
dency to revert to non-democratic practices and was an
important factor in the decision of the Allied High Com-
mission to enact Allied High Commission Law No.5 pro-
viding for the control and supervision of German radio
stations,

Each of the four stations in the US Zone is operated
under an American Occupation letter of authorization
prescribing the terms of operation. The stipulations pro-
vide for full compliance with both German and occupation
legislation and, for the broadcast of overt US programs
such as the Voice of America relays and official commen-
taries,

Monitoring sections are maintained at the state com-
missioners’ offices to keep constant check on the output
of each of the radio stations, A representative of the
Radio Branch is on duty at each station to carry out his
functions as observer, adviser and liaison officer to assist
the station in meeting its responsibilities, to report on the
station's performance and generally to advance the
mission of the branch,

HE EFFECTIVENESS of the American radio officer's

presence at the station is measured by the station's
performance, His is an important role in the explanation
of US policies and attitudes to the German broadcasters
who, in turn, are able to reflect these attitudes in the out-
put of the station.

The reports of the field representatives are collated
weekly and issued as a broadcasting trend report by the
Radio Branch to show the reflection of American policy
and such deviations or shadings as occur.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“The Talmud,"

play by Morton
Wishengrad of New York. Radio Frankfurt was one of
the four US-established stations turned over to German
management between January and July 1949 under letters
of authorization which prescribe the terms of operation.
All four stations are constantly monitored and checked
to prevent any reversion to non-democratic tendencies.

Radio Frankfurt airs

Other efforts toward a better understanding of the
United States by the German broadcasters and, through
them, the radio audience, include the visiting experts pro-
gram. In 1947, under the auspices of the Rockefeller Foun-
dation, six broadcasters from Western Germany visited the
United States for five months and England for 30 days.
Upon their return they each broadcast a series of programs
on their impressions and delivered a number of talks to
the staffs of the radio stations.

Last spring 16 broadcasters from the four stations in the
US Zone and from RIAS visited the United States for two
months, also with good results,

MERICAN VISITING experts have been useful in

assisting German broadcasters to understand the
American conception of public service radio as well as
American techniques in broadcasting. They have im-
parted new ideas and helped to broaden the vision of
the German broadcasters, thereby aiding in the rehabili-
tation of German radio.

However, there remains a large portion of the problem
of rehabilitating the German radio, considerably more
than is concerned with the land stations and yet on which
the future of these stations depends. That part remains
to be solved in tripartite deliberations determining the
future of German radio,

The three occupying powers of Western Germany have
yet to agree on the scope of German radio nationally
and internationally. They have yet to determine whether
the federal government may be permitted to enter into
radio broadcasting and what manner of control shall be
exercised by the federal government. These are questions
already under discussion among federal governmental
bodies although the controls are vested in the Allied
High Commission under its Law No. 5. -+-END

. SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 66 ---
Motion Pictures

Co MOVIE SCREENS today give forth a story
that used to be banned: the story of a nation that
has learned to live by the rules of democracy.

America — its baseball parks and industries, its town
meetings and soda parlors, the history and institutions
that make it free — is being projected into the minds of
a German people that five years ago viewed it with
ignorant hate.

Motion Picture Branch has martialled the services of
film experts, interpreters and reorientation specialists to
tell and sell the American story. In western zone theaters
they hope to erase Germany's fostered contempt for
America and put in its place an active and appreciative
understanding.

German children line up outside theater to see a great
adventure story—Motion Picture Branch's documentary
film of the Airlift to Berlin.’This film is one of many
Produced by the Branch to give German movie-goers
an insight into the philosophy behind the US occupation,
and to keep them informed of its historic developments,

SPECIAL EDITION

63

Films produced in America, translated to German, as
well as a growing number of reels made within Germany
by the Motion Picture Branch have been harnessed to the
over-all program to express the American viewpoint.

MPB directors believe their products will do much to
explain US occupation policies as well as persuade Ger-
mans to adopt for themselves the principles of democratic
life.

HE TOTAL of Branch production has grown progress-

ively — to date, 18 documentary films have been
produced in Germany for distribution in commercial thea-
ters as well as educational outlets. In addition, 41 adapted
documentaries on various topics of Americana have been
fed into German theaters, with another 89 being projected
in Information Centers, and 59 through schools, univer-
sities and like channels. Their subject matter has been as
varied as the life they depict: 17 of the films represented
educational and cultural programs in the United States,
13 showed agriculture and the problems that beset it, and
16 were in the catch-all category that includes democratic
institutions and American contributions to world re-
covery.

Motion Picture Branch, adapting itself to the new occu-
pational design, is relying upon this positive means of
film education to offset its withdrawal from control of the
home-grown film industry in Germany, While the Branch
once had the power to bar all but the competent and po-
litically clean from the industry, and could pass judgment
on what films were most suitable to German audiences,
today their part in German film production is restricted
to the realm of advice and persuasion.

This control mission has not, of course, been totally
abandoned. Branch supervisors devote as much of their
energies as are expedient to help develop the production,
distribution and showing of German-made films that will
exert the maximum influence on behalf of US-engendered
policies,

But by far the most effective medium for reorientation
has been the Branch's own output of film. Production and
distribution are the two facets of this program, and behind
them lies a giant apparatus that has cogs in the United
States as well as in the key cities of west Germany.

Tw AGENCIES in the United States, the New York
Field Office, Reorientation Branch, Department of the
Army, and the International Motion Picture Division, OII,
Department of State, do the job of procuring an abundant
selection of films on American topics. The original English
versions, as well as the negatives required to process the
films in Germany, are shipped to the Motion Picture
Branch.

Preparing these reels for German marketing entails far
more than straight translation of the original English
sound track. Under supervision of an American expert, Ger-
man interpreters and technicians rework the ready-made
scripts into versions more suitable to the German men-
tality. When the films are of a formal educational nature,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
A new tradition in movie-making: Germans today are seeing American-made
films in the theaters of the western zones, Such features as Franz Werfel's
“The Song of Bernadette’ (above) have been very enthusiastically received.

they are released only to the schools, universities and
educational centers; when they are sound theatrical ma-
terial, they are released to German cinema outlets.

This synchronization enterprise is waxing progressively
stronger, With the success of such far-famed films as
“Louisiana Story” and “Nanook, the Eskimo,” plans are
underway to telescope the operation on both the thea-
trical and educational levels.

During the fiscal years 1950 and 1951, it is expected
that six feature length documentaries and 52 short sub-
jects will find their way into German theaters, and the
following list of films will be shown in the strictly edu-
cational outlets: 60 short subjects for reorientation use,
30 films on public health, 40 dental films, 30 medical films
and 40 educational color films, All these films must be
reworked into German language and printed in 35 mm.
versions for theatrical use, 16 mm. for nontheatrical,

UPPLEMENTING THIS INFLUX of US-made films are
the movies written, filmed, edited and developed in
Europe by the Motion Picture Branch. These films deal
with decisive postwar issues from the standpoint of Amer-
ican action and underlying policies. Specifically aimed
at the reorientation problem, the reels have dealt with
such topics as the airlift, hunger in Europe, concentration
camps, Germany's foreign trade after the war, militarism,
and the elemental workings of ERP.

This roster of film topics gives a hint as to the vast
scope of the Branch’s dealings. Not only are they devoted
to pointing out the depravity of belligerent Nazism, but
to showing the means America has employed to repair
its damages. It was this documentary film unit which pro-
duced the hard-hitting, feature-length picture of the
Nuremberg trials, which gave some Germans their first
comprehension of the enormities Hitler perpetrated.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

So effective have been the 18 do-
cumentaries thus far. produced that
plans are afoot to append two more
documentary units to the Branch's
operating staff. Dependent on recruit-
ment of qualified personnel in the
United States, these two units and
their veteran predecessors would be
charged with the task of producing 15
documentaries annually. These films,
perhaps more than any others pro-
duced by the Branch, have so far
played a salient role in directly ex-
plaining and supporting US High Com-
mission objectives in postwar Ger-
many.

THIRD UNIT within the Motion

Picture Branch produces three pe-
riodical “newsreel"’-type films. Out-
post news desks in Munich, Berlin,
Hamburg, Duesseldorf, Frankfurt and
Stuttgart gather inside-Germany news
developments on film, which, when
spliced with contracted material from
foreign newsreel companies, make a
weekly newsreel for distribution to the German cinema.
In addition, 52 prints of the reel are made on 16 milli-
meter film for showing on screens of schools, universities
and adult education gatherings.

A monthly magazine in film is similary produced by
the newsreel unit of the Branch. Entitled “Unsere Zeit"
(Our Time), the film is pointed essentially at young Ger-
mans, and achieves its presentations in Information Cen-
ters, schools and universities, Heavely weighted with re-
orientation material and not usually dealing with “spot
news,” the film is not shown in commercial theaters.

“Ten Minutes in America” is the name of the third
newsreel-type documentary produced by the Branch. Com-
posed exclusively of shots of American life, the reel
focuses most effectively the ideals around which the
whole reorientation effort revolves. It is released both to
the German motion picture houses and to the educational
outlets listed above.

Circulation of this reorientation film material is achieved
through two independent channels, Theatrically, it is
distributed through an MPB agency called the Allgemeiner
Film Verleih (AFI). This agency has branch offices in
Munich, Berlin, Stuttgart, Frankfurt and Bremen, whose
mission it is to book HICOG-born films in as many thea-
ters as possible.

The 153 German personnel engaged in this task, under
an American supervisor, now have a revised and highly
competitive job — with the dissolution of Military Gov-
ernment, showing of the films is no longer obligatory,
and they are circulated on the basis of merit alone. At
present, the organization services approximately 3,000
movie houses in the three western zones of Germany and
the western sectors of Berlin.

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 68 ---
Outstanding among 18 documentaries produced so far by the Documentary Film Unit of the Motion: Picture Branch

was the authoritative picture presentation of the Nuremberg trials. Trial testimony, welded with flashbacks of the

defendants’ careers in power, offered conclusive argument against

the brutalities of Nazis at war. Five showings

daily were held at many German theaters. Pictures above show posters advertising the films to German passersby.

During the first half of 1949, MPB documentaries were
inserted in 11,969 regular cinema programs. More than
9,000,000 persons viewed these pictures. It is estimated
that about 50 percent of the entire German populace is
contacted by the AFI distributorship,

i ie OTHER FIELD for distribution is more specialized;
its audience is for the most part in-school or volun-
tary students. Schools and universities maintain periodic
showings of Branch films, and US Information Centers
have knit them into their comprehensive reorientation
schemes, Special showings are achieved in large number
through county audio-visual aids offices, as requests are
received from community organizations desiring know-
ledge in particularized fields.

Attendance figures are not haphazardiy quoted by the
Motion Picture Branch, whose statisticians keep faithful
record of audience response. Detailed statistics are avail-
able on the number of reels and prints produced, the
channels of distribution and the extent of the audiences
for each. Through careful analysis of these figures, the
Branch receives necessary guidance for revamping and
improving its scheduled operations.

As mentioned before, promulgation of the Occupation
Statute removed from US hands the power of licensing
German motion picture producers, and of sifting film
material for harmful ingredients before it reached German
screens. Branch liaison officers are now concerned with
the task of surveillance, to see that the prestige and
security of Allied occupation forces are not affected,
and with the giving of advice to still-developing film
enterprises. Whenever possible or advisable, the Branch
tries to influence these commercial film companies to
shoot only such pictures as will complement the United
States mission in reorienting the German people.
T= MOTION PICTURE Branch further is working with

other HICOG elements to oversee and enforce the
decartelization of the entire German film industry, which
during the Nazi reign was highly concentrated and served

SPECIAL EDITION

the government in its manufacture of pro-Hitler propa-
ganda.

Still another task of the Motion Picture Branch is its
coordination efforts with commercial US film makers.
Hollywood is encouraged to make careful selection of
those films which it will exploit in the western zones
of Germany, and to tie in their pictures with the studied
efforts of MPB to show the positive side of American
life. Hollywood films have in some cases enjoyed out-
standing response from the Germans; applause resounded
for such pictures as “The Best Years of Our Lives,”
“Ninotchka” and ‘Boy's Town.”

Even German movie-makers are taking part. Dove-
tailing much of the work of the documentaries’ section
are the contributions of certain German film companies
who have contracted to shoot films for the Americans.
Individual contracts are signed with producers to turn
out reels on specialized subjects. Assignments are handed
out to the companies; they in turn prepare a script and
shooting profile for Branch approval. Once this is pro-
cured, production goes forward under the supervision
of one of the Branch's documentary film units. As soon
as the film is handed over to Motion Picture Branch,
the German producer surrenders all rights to it, and it
goes into the files as US Government property.

In taking stock of past accomplishments and estimating
future needs, the Motion Picture Branch has expressed
confidence that progress has been made. Public opinion
surveys have shown that the newsreel has made a lasting
impression. Requests for special showings of documentaries
have consistently outweighed the number of film titles
and prints available.

It would not be embellishing the Motion Picture
Branch’s' claims to say that its job has been, to date,
one of the most effective and far-reaching of all those
whose purpose it is to bring. the Germans into the orbit
of peoples who espouse democracy. ++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
Reactions Analysis

HEN THE GERMAN soldiers laid down their arms

and America stepped into the job of democratically
reorientating the German people it took upon itself one
of the largest informational programs of all history. It
became imperative for policy makers to know how their
informational efforts could be best utilized to root out
the vast structure of ignorance and misinformation that
Hitler had created, And after the campaigns had been
initiated there was a need to know which information
programs had missed and which had scored so that ad-
vantages could be pressed and ineffective tactics revised.

It was not long before it was appreciated that modern
methods of opinion research had much to contribute to
the American occupation’s need for the guidance and
evaluation of their informational policies and programs.

Accordingly a survey operation was established which
has now for four years regularly questioned scientifically
chosen cross-sections of the German people, in the
American occupied areas, on their reactions to occupation
policies and their opinions upon significant economic,
social and political issues.

tke HE INTERVIEWS are carried out in the homes of the

respondents by a staff of trained German inter-
viewers who are under the careful scrutiny of American
field supervisors. Confidence in the candor of the replies
has been engendered by many sources of evidence, not
the least of which is the extent and intensity of adverse
criticism of Allied policies freely voiced in the interviews.
The number of interviews collected varies with the re-
quirements of the problem, but comprises, in the regular
sample, 3,000 cases in the American zone, 500 cases in
‘the three western sectors of Berlin and 300 in Bremen-
Bremerhaven. Questionnaires are formulated and returns
are analyzed- by an American control office staff with
the aid of German assistants.

Since its inception the services of the opinion survey
operation at all times have been at the disposal of any
occupation agencies whose. activities could profit from
such information. Some hundreds of reports have been

INFORMATION BULLETIN 66

written for policy-making officials with the objective of
eliminating the necessity of blunderbuss methods in in-
formation programs and of fostering the application of
economical, streamlined planning.

A large part of the guidance work of the survey opera-
tion has been to describe the population characteristics
of readers of every magazine and newspaper published
under American auspices for German consumption, as
well as the listeners to American-sponsored radio stations
and programs, to compare them with non-readers and
non-listeners, and to report specific likes and dislikes,
to the end that the programs may reach the intended
audiences as effectively as possible. Put in business terms,
this is a market research operation. As in any business, it
is imperative to know whether the product is selling, and
who the buyers are, and if it isn't selling, why not?

LLUSTRATIVE OF this type of inquiry are studies done

onRIAS, the official US radio station in Berlin, Surveys
constantly checked on the effectiveness of RIAS and
accurately reported its spectacular rise. In the fall of 1946,
RIAS, with a weak transmitter, poor frequency and broad-
cast time, limited in studio and other facilities, had already
become the favorite station of 17 percent of the west
Berlin radio audience in competition with the powerful
and well-equipped Radio Berlin.

The rise of popularity of RIAS was traced following the
installation of a larger and more powerful transmitter and
during periods of tension in Berlin, In the summer of 1949
a survey showed that RIAS had become the favorite
station of 90 percent of the West Berlin radio audience.

The Voice of America audience has been similarly
scrutinized and described. As a result of the surveys
operations, it is possible to say that four in 10 of the total
adult population in the US Zone can be reliably con-
sidered as fairly regular listeners to the program, which
would mean a high ‘‘Hooperating’’ if that method of
measurement were used. Moreover, specific criticisms of
the programs have been sought and reported in order to
increase the effectiveness of presentation and content.

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 70 ---
Left to right, above, photos show procedure in conducting
a public opinion poll. Initial step is the choice of a timely
subject. Then a questionnaire. conference (extreme left) is
held at which question to be put gets its finishing touches.
Then the pollsters go out and interview (left) the lady of
the house in a representative middle class home; (above)
man of the house is queried while his wife prepares supper;
(tight) front door interview with a typical housewile,
whose name had been drawn from a food ration card list.

TUDIES OF HEUTE, the overt US picture magazine,

show it to be one of the most popular magazines of
its kind in the US Zone of Germany. The other overt
publications reach smaller audiences, but to the extent
they are designed for the better-educated leadership
groups—a very small percentage of German society—
they reach their market.

Prominent among the evaluational studies of the surveys
staff have been continuing checks on the effectiveness of
informational efforts in connection with the ECA program.
Serial surveys have charted the developing awareness of
the aid plan among the German people. By the fall of
1949, more than three quarters of the population sampled
were cognizant of the existence of Marshall Plan aid.

Clearly showing that newspaper and radio coverage of
the European Recovery Program and its results have been
effective, the survey disclosed that seven out of ten Ger-
mans were aware of the US aid, and that foreign aid

Oss
ranked second to currency reform as a voluntarily stated
reason for the economic improvement of the past year.

In answer to the question, “Can you tell me what this
plan is generally called?", 63 percent of the interviewed
western Berliners correctly identified this aid as Marshall
Plan, ECA or ERP. Wuerttemberg-Baden residents follow
closely at 62 percent. Other scores on the same question
were 51 percent for Hesse, 50 for Bavaria and 58 for Bremen,

Awareness that western Germany and Berlin were
receiving Marshall Plan aid ranges from 56 percent to
74 percent. of the population. Among those who were
aware of ERP, the majority knew that Russia was not in-
cluded, for the reason that the Russians did not want to
participate.

At the same time the people have become more aware
of the amount of food the US contributes to western
Germany. So the story has been one of progress, but
more remains to be done as it certainly cannot yet be said
that the magnitude of US aid to the German people is
fully appreciated. -+-END

Completed questionnaires are delivered to the coding room (left) where answers are classified into categories, Then
(right), after answers are punched onto cards, they are run through sorting machines and the results are percentaged

for use by the analysts. Thus accurate public opinion views are swiftly made available to all interested divisions
within and numerous organizations as well as individuals without the HICOG administration and put to a wide
variety of uses. Introduced by the US occupation authorities, the public opinion poll has won a ready and even
enthusiastic response after an initially indifferent start and today is proving its worth in innumerable ways.

--- Page 71 ---
-HighCommission © ,
‘Says East State”
Has No Mandate:

dim ug OL
x aed eo
re

ermine BS WwW en

ge Sta

=
5 3. : :
Meois.P, 1
ANCois-Poncet rappelle
“aux Alle cS
Allemand.
aque. ‘< = 8 =
Welques yépiy Premisy
be haut ccmoiscaine tng a

Ha rowenerae entin fg of saree te

les sépablignes Me

$8 F6 seiteeige ac

Feeehetort \eccepig UO 20. ton & ech
ing DAI, NUK
renatyg

LEIS ped
elle
8 cna po OR

, ¢ REVENDICALEUS:
frouvent & Washington
Scho de plus en sus favorable

& Vonlts trans NX
cola Hones |
x2 te chenceliet

yas UE DUE ayRM ane % a 8 ton fe
I Tener -

Sa, . vente tes Alliex of tee

2 iP brepen de Bests ues:

i S : oe oo
ttato di pace” Ma ial :
Adenauer agli alleatt, ee ne oer ee - 8 2 a e

&

Co : horde %
ech ara cee ee sss x " Se s :
CF ern © S : : oe oe Se
uote? eo : : ‘ Se pes eto tot oy tee Bia Mages ee oe
" : : wit aan BE at ee an <a
: fs Te (ne atin ek eNOS s ef
< See ae ma ™

--- Page 72 ---
>A

Public Relations Division

HE PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION has two separate and distinct
audiences, the American and Allied public, and—the German people.
In its dual capacity, the Public Relations Division, one of the four com-
ponent divisions of the Office of Public Affairs, has a twofold mission:

First, to provide for the public of the United States and the world at large
a continuing flow of objective information on the plans, operations and policy
of HICOG and the American occupation in Germany and, second, to report
on these objectives to the German people as part of the US practice of en-
couraging maximum support of this policy by its beneficiaries.

Emphasis on various phases of the occupation story has necessarily shifted
since the early postwar days. Through a flexible public information program,
stress on specific aspects of the occupation has been strengthened or relaxed
to coincide with the changing West German scene.

ORRELATING ITS PROGRAM to the sharper current issues, HICOG Public

Relations Division, in a carefully mapped out publicity campaign for 1950,
has given top priority to plans to accelerate its publicity on the European Re-
covery Program. In coordination with ECA Information Offices in Washington,
Paris and Frankfurt, PRD is carrying out a stepped-up schedule of special ex-
hibits; posters; tours by correspondents, both foreign and German; special fo-
rums; and radio and film projects supplemented by timely news releases and
pamphlets.

Periodic and special ECA radio programs are scheduled on the German
radio stations, RIAS and American Forces Network in Germany. A number
of documentary films are now in preparation by the Information Services Di-
vision with PRD assistance. These include: ‘Kraftwerk West,” the story of
the new German power plant in western Berlin and how it was reconstructed
with Marshall Plan funds; ‘‘Wirtschaftseinheit’’ (Economic Unity), a film out-
lining the part Germany is to play in the Economic Union of Europe; “Fahrt
mit Barbara’ (A Trip with Barbara), a film concerning the motorization and
highway improvement program in the French Zone; and “Gegenwart,” the
story of work being done with counterpart funds on electrical projects in the
French Zone.

A traveling ERP exhibition which will tour cities in western Germany is
being prepared by PRD and ECA. Under construction also are Marshall Plan
window displays to be shown in several of the larger German cities, It is de-
signed to make the population of western Germany aware of American aid
to German recovery. (Continued on page 70)

Su

SPECIAL EDITION 69 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
All news outlets in the area are notified of impending press gatherings.

An ERP poster contest for labor groups and a plan to
nominate a “Marshall Plan Factory of the Month,” to be
honored at appropriate ceremonies, are among promotional
ideas contemplated for the new year.

RD ALSO PLANS to lay even greater stress during

1950 on United States aid, other than ERP, to German
economic recovery in the fields of publicity, education
reform and democratization. This difficult and sometimes
delicate task of bringing home to the average German
the extent to which he has benefited from American aid
will be carried out by stories and pictures disseminated
through newspapers, radio, motion pictures, newsreels,
US Information Centers and libraries, telling every German
of American efforts to help him rebuild his business and
his health, his schools and his churches, and to help him
establish a government which will not readily fall prey
to totalitarian designs.

Another phase of the 1950 public relations programs—
an extensive long-term plan on deconcentration of cartels
and interlocking directorates, stressing at the same time
the greater personal freedom and improved living standards
stimulated by the free enterprise system and fair trade
practices—is now under study and will be accomplished
by the joint effort of the Public Relations, Information
Services and Decartelization Divisions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Mires

American, Allied and German news, camera and newsree] men flocked to the PRD-arranged press conference pictured
above when ECA Administrator Paul Hoffman discussed the Marshall Plan in Germany. Periodic conferences with US
High Commissioner McCloy, as well as special conferences with visiting dignitaries are facilitated by PRD effort.

(Stars & Stripes photo)

The story of the progress of democratization in the fields
of education, political activities and labor ranks high in
the year's program. It is designed to keep the American
people informed of developments in these vital activities
of the Office of the US High Commissioner. A continuing
flow of background and “spot’’ news to the regular
information media, intended to keep. both German and
Allied audiences aware of the work in these fields, is
underway.

ERMANS VISITING the United States under the

Exchange Program will be given greater opportunity
to publicize their reactions to democratic institutions as
observed in the United States and explain how their
experience is being applied in Germany. American
officials will be offered similar facilities during their tours
of duty in Germany.

Stories on infringement of civil rights, dangers of a
resurgent Nazi press, civil service and school reform will
be utilized in alerting the German people to certain
faults in their traditional systems. Participation by PRD
staff members on a wider scale in the planning and con-
duct of town meetings, community gatherings and similar
projects is called for in the 1950 program.

To promote German efforts toward achieving self-suffi-
ciency and thereby reducing the need for American

SPECIAL EDITION

--- Page 74 ---
Interviews with top HICOG officials provide on-the-scene
personnel, German readers, and the American public with
direct-line knowledge of the historic occupation ex-
periment. The Public Relations Division abets such inter-
views as the one above between US High Commissioner
John J, McCloy and newsmen at Rhine-Main Air Base.

taxpayers’ aid, projects for 1950 will include plans for an
accelerated publicity campaign relative to German export
activities and the potentially lucrative tourist trade.

PRD will continue to exploit the German export pro-
gram, export exhibits and German participation in inter-
national trade affairs. With German agencies taking
over some export activities, HICOG-sponsored publicity
will increase its emphasis upon the role played by
German governmental agencies in this field, advances in
German industry and on the larger aspects of the indus-
trial picture.

IGH PRIORITY will be given the interpretation of

policies and plans of HICOG, such as encouraging
political independence on the part of the German and
turning over governmental responsibilities to German
federal agencies, and to an internal public relations pro-
gram designed to keep HICOG and occupation personnel
thoroughly informed of policies and plans on all levels.

With these goals as primary targets for 1950, the Public
Relations Division will implement its program through
approved and improved techniques to fulfill its mission
of spreading and promoting democratic principles among
the German people and assisting accredited representa-
tives of American and Allied information media in telling
the factual story of the occupation.

The Division, centered in Frankfurt, maintains a Head-
quarters News Desk into which news copy is funneled

SPECIAL EDITION

from all sources within western Germany. This desk
covers, much the same as a newspaper city room, all
activities of the US High Commissioner, who is also the
official US spokesman in Germany, chief of the ECA
Mission to Western Germany, and US member of the
Council of the Allied High Commission for Germany.

Branches in Bad Nauheim, Berlin, Bremen, Bonn,
Duesseldorf, Munich, Stuttgart and Wiesbaden handle
their news operations on the state level under guidance
from Headquarters News Desk in Frankfurt. PRD press
officers also maintain constant liaison with British and
French counterparts to insure unanimity of tripartite
expression.

O CARRY OUT its comprehensive program, every

phase of HICOG operations from the highest policy-
making levels in Bonn and Frankfurt, down to the work
of the state commissioners and county resident officers
is covered by staff press officers through press releases
issued to the 100-odd American and Allied newsmen
covering Germany for the world press and to the growing
corps of German correspondents,

Press officers of PRD are assigned to cover their re-
spective “news beats’ in the same way as newspaper
reporters. In addition, they are available at all times for
consultation on public information policy, activities and
progress,

PRD processes its news output in English, French and
German and secures distribution on a world-wide basis
through newspaper and wire service bureaus stationed
in Germany, and on a direct basis to the German press
and other German information media. News releases
originating in various state capitals are put on the PRD
network via the Headquarters News Desk at Frankfurt.

The abandonment of press licensing, except in Berlin,
and improved economic conditions have resulted in the
establishment of many new newspapers in Germany, In
addition, the larger papers have increased publication
from two or three times weekly to a daily basis, This
has broadened the channels of communication to the
German public, always a major concern to PRD, as a
method of informing Germans of the purposes and
policies of the occupation,

PRD maintains its own staff of photographers and
darkroom technicians to record a running pictorial history
of major developments, Photographs, paralleling news
releases, are processed and distributed immediately to
photo media. A file of prints is also maintained upon
which correspondents may draw.

S A PRIMARY SOURCE for those correspondents
seeking first-hand information, PRD initiates and
arranges press conferences for HICOG officials, includ-
ing the US High Commissioner, briefs the press on
tripartite activities, and, at the request of individual

newsmen, arranges special interviews with specialist
officials of HICOG.
Occasional tours of specified installations such as

manufacturing plants engaged in export, or food import

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Any comments, Mr. Secretary? US Secretary of State Dean
Acheson has a jovial word for German radio audiences
during a late-1949 visit to Berlin, while High Commissioner
John J. McCloy and Berlin's Mayor Ernst Reuter look on.
Radio, including specially written broadcasts by Public
Relations Division, is one of the principal media employed
by HICOG officials to tell the story behind the occupation.

depots, serve to give correspondents a first-hand view
on subjects they are covering, while providing PRD with
the means of publicizing special phases of the occupation.
The tours, arranged by PRD, have covered in the past
such widely divergent activities as the Bavarian tourist
trade, export factories in the promotion of sale of German
goods abroad and reparation plants.

Full utilization of the radio in projecting the HICOG
story is an integral part of PRD operations. This activity
includes planning and conducting extensive radio cam-
paigns as well as arranging and assisting in individual
feature broadcasts, radio interviews and speeches for
stations in the United States, the American Forces Net-
work in Germany and the German radio stations,

PRD has sponsored and maintained a year-round weekly
broadcast on exports for German listeners; occasional
broadcasts by occupation officials on various phases of
their work; and special programs such as “Report from
the Office of the US High Commissioner," which was
inaugurated over AFN during the second week of No-
vember 1949 and continues on a monthly basis.

je ACTIVITIES of HICOG cover all phases of
German life—economic, political, cultural and social.
It is often difficult for officials in one division to keep
up with developments in another. Then, too, there are
component parts of HICOG widely scattered throughout
the US Zone; the county resident officer of a Bavarian

A variegated traffic in public relations occurs when visiting
Congressmen hit town. HICOG's Public Relations Division
arranges such press contacts as the one at tight with
members of the Senate Appropriations Committee on their
arrival at Rhine-Main. Later, PRD envoys cover their
tour for German and American-audience newspapers, see
to it that the senators see and understand the features of
occupation which interest them most. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

district along the “Iron Curtain,” for instance, finds it
difficult to keep informed of the activities of his col-
leagues in Wuerttemberg-Baden, or the latest projects of
an office or division at headquarters.

In the interest of keeping all personnel apprised of
current trends, activities and developments, PRD publishes
a monthly magazine, the Information Bulletin, which
carries articles on different occupation activities written
by the Bulletin staff and by HICOG officials. Summaries
of the latest directives, as well as surveys of German
and foreign press reactions are included. Although the
Bulletin is the magazine of the US High Commission, it
is also distributed to US Information Centers for German
readers and to universities, libraries and governmental
agencies in the United States.

Special booklets and pamphlets have proved of great
value in telling the story of a particular program or
project and are issued by PRD as often as circumstances
warrant. PRD publications have included “The Business
Man's Guide to Germany,” a simple, concise handbook
giving the foreign business man necessary information
for doing business in occupied Germany; “A Year of
Potsdam" and “Potsdam, Germany."

During the past year and a half, PRD has issued a
weekly Economic Press Digest, presenting a comprehen-
sive cross-section of German comment on American aid
to German economic recovery and allied economic
subjects. The Digest is disributed to all key HICOG
personnel, as well as to other government agencies and
press correspondents, PRD also maintains constant scru-
tiny of the daily German press in order to inform HICOG
officials of stories which require special measures or for
trends which demand watching or counteraction.

ie BONN, the crowded capital of the German Republic,
and in other important news centers, PRD is actively
engaged in providing a wide range of facilities for the
working press such as teletype communications, travel
and press centers. In Frankfurt and Bonn, the division is
assisting the press corps in establishing its own press
clubs,

Through these techniques, HICOG Public Relations

Division is projecting its specific publicity goals and is
conveying to the world the day-to-day story of the
American effort to convert the former German police
state to a peace-loving democracy and a fully cooperative
partner in the economic recovery of Europe.

--END

--- Page 76 ---
The fight against disease that wes loosed on postwar Germany has been waged by a cooperative team of Amer-
icans, Germans and volunteer agencies in western Europe. An eight-year-old victim of. polio (leit) was pronounced
out of danger by doctors at the Munich Children’s Hospital after he had spent seven days in an iron lung, one of
six donated by CRALOG. The other five lungs were used in hospitals in Berlin, Bremen, Frankiurt, Heidelberg
and Wuerzburg. Red Cross representatives irom Scandinavia conducted a vaccine demonstration program with BCG

(Bacilli-Calmetie-Guerin) to show Germans an elfective means for nation-wide tuberculosis control. At right, a Danish

nurse injects the vaccine into the arm of a German child, one of millions so inoculated.

(Continued irom page 39)

Health and Welfare

stitutions, Upon their return to Germany every effort will
be made to utilize them to the best advantage in diffusing
knowledge and establishing health and welfare organi-
zations based upon democratic Western concepts of
public service.

American specialists in various fields of medicine and
social welfare will be brought to Germany to survey,
advise, teach and consult on problems of importance in the
fields of social welfare and public health.

In addition we hope to make further use of demon-
stration programs, particularly in the field of modern
maternal and child welfare service, mental hygiene and
child guidance clinics. These centers for the diffusion of
knowledge and the training of German workers will be
established in connection with existing German facilities
(universities and health departments) and will be staffed
by trained German and American specialists.

N-SERVICE TRAINING programs and outright grants-

in-aid consisting of funds and educational material will
be used to assist certain struggling German organizations
to establish themselves.

To accomplish these projects and to carry on the close
contact with the German professions necessary for the
encouragement and stimulation of their German colleagues,
Professional public health officers or welfare officers with
the assistance of two American secretaries have been
authorized. Of these, nine professional men and women
are now assigned.

At the headquarters of HICOG are located two phy-

73

(OLCB and UNICEF photos)

sicians, one nutritionist and two public welfare experts.
One combined public health and welfare expert each is
authorized for Land Hessen, Land Wuerttemberg-Baden, Land
Bavaria, Land Bremen, and the US Sector of Berlin. The
vacancies will be filled as soon as competent personnel
can be recruited from the States. +END

(Continued irom page 36)

Religious Affairs

testants and Catholics as well as people of other na-
tionalities can live in the same community in a spirit of
toleration and cooperation.

Through the US Cultural Exchange program three
laymen and three council directors spent from 45 days to
three months studying the program of American organiza-
tions concerned with developing wholesome inter-group
relationships. These leaders have returned equipped with
numerous practical approaches and with a feeling that
America is deeply concerned about building right
attitudes among people of different racial, nationality and
religious backgrounds, They have been impressed with the
amount of work which has been and is being done, This
has increased their understanding of their own problems
and has given them courage to deal more realistically
with them.

US and European consultants, with extensive background
and experience in inter-group relations, have assisted in
the development of this program and in linking the
activities of the established German groups with their
counterparts in various European countries and in the
United States. -+END

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF

--- Page 77 ---
Information Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the monthly maga-
zine of the Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany for dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies, regulations,

instructions, operations and activities of the Allied
occupation in Germany.

Editorial Offices:
Headquarters Building, Room 263-A
Frankfurt, Germany