--- Page 2 ---
rORMAT

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

CHESON in BERLIN

--- Page 3 ---
ECA Funds Aid Netherlands hecove

The dike which protected the island of Walcheren from the North Sea was bombed in October 1944 and for more
than a year its fertile fields and meadows lay under six feet of salt water (top). When the island was drained with
ECA aid funds, 3,000 houses, 250 farms and thousands of trees had been washed away and the once fertile land was
covered with salt (above). Today counterpart funds are helping to rebuild the houses and farms, plant 500,000 trees
and reclaim the soil to appreciably add to the Netherlands’ agricultural production. (ECA photos)

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulleti

COVER PICTURE

ACHESON IN BERLIN—Meeting the
American, Allied and German news
correspodents of Berlin, US Secretary
of State Dean Acheson made some
general and personal observations on
his visit to Germany. A report of his
German tour appears on pages 38 and
39. Beside him at the press conference
in the US Headquarters building in
Berlin Nov. 14 was US High Com-
missioner McCloy, (PRD HICOG photo)

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupa-
tion in Germany.

Editorial Offices
Headquarters Building, Room 263-A
Frankfurt, Germany

Editor H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer Aileen S, Miles

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

December 1949

Christmas Poem
Poem by Eugene Jolas
Christmas Vignettes
Best Stories of Postwar Germany
Christmas Parties for Children .
Article by Margaret Sorenson
New Ideas for Women . . A
Article by Marjorie A. Yahraes
Oberammergau . .
Article by Paul Freedman
Youth Forums Maturing .
Pictorial Story from Hans Lamm
Public School Reform
Report to the People .
Inauguration of AFN Broadcast Series
HICOG's Objectives . s 5
Radio Speech by Maj. Gen, George P. Hays
Germany Today

Interview by High ( Commissioner John ad McCloy"

Five Nations Parade Arms say
Bavaria‘s Progress
Review by Murray Di. van Wagoner
Hesse‘s Progress :
Review by Dr. James R. Newman
Cities from Ruins . .
Digest of Expert's Survey Report
Rule by Law.
Digest of Speech ‘by Capt C. R. Jetis s (USN)
Agricultural Extension .
Article by George Kiem
Appraising Cost of Peace . . ‘
Statement by Senator A. Willis Robertson
Secretary Acheson Visits Germany
Resume of Statements
For Better Understanding . .
Address by Ambassador Robert Dz rat
Challenge to Europe . . é
Address by Paul G. Hoffman
British Masters Shown in Hamburg
Christian Social Union .
Fourth in Political Parties Series
New Index of Industrial Production
Personnel Notes
Occupation Log
“So wohnt Amerika” .
Pictorial Review of “So Lives “America’”
German Editorials
Official Notices
Regulations, Directives, Publications; ocements

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

18
19

21
23

26
27

29
32

33

37

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
STAIRNKRE

M y,

WW

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A Christmas Letter )

By EUGENE JOLAS

We rove through alien lands and hear
The moon-blanched sound of mirth at night
Across the landscape far and near;

We watch the Milky Way in flight.

We're far away from friend and home.

An avalanche of rubble rains vy
Across our eyes. We tread the loam

Of strangers in a whorl of pains. <

And we remember hallowed days ()
In festive prairie towns that dream
Of Indian lore and pioneer ways;
We see the sacred fire gleam.

From Brooklyn to great Oregon

The air is filled with hymns of peace;
The winter corn beneath the sun

Is rustling in the western breeze.

This is the season of good cheer;

We fling across the ocean miles <
The elegy of our homesick tear;

‘We feel the wonder of your smiles. q)

{)
<
)
<
ny
)
<
()

Vv yA

WN

) DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 6 ---
Christmas Vignettes

— — Series of “Best Storis” of Postwar Germany

..-And A Child Was Born

By COL. PAUL J. MADDOX
Chief, Chaplain Division
European Command

a T ALL HAPPENED the first Christmas after the
war ended in Germany—during the bleak, cold
winter of 1945-46, An American Army sergeant
was driving a jeep through the rubble cf a.
street in heavily-bombed Munich. A sharp wind

4 caked snow against the windshield, forcing him

to stop every few minutes, get out and wipe the snow away.

Once, after he had climbed out to clean the windshield,
he stood by the jeep and listened. There was no sound;
only the light of the new day dawning seemed friendly.
His eyes squinted against the icy wind—the same kind
that had cut into his face the winter before in the frozen
Ardennes during the Battle of the Bulge, where he'd
earned his Purple Heart and gathered up a slug of steel
in his thigh.

He stood staring, making out the jagged wrecks that
were once buildings of downtown Munich, Their outlines
looked less revolting, more fantastic as they became
blurred, grotesque forms under the snow.

The sergeant glanced at his watch. It was five-thirty
on Christmas morning, and there wasn’t a note of good
will or cheer in the whole lifeless world about him. The
loneliness he felt in the silent ghost city made him want
to get away fast. Climbing in behind the wheel he raced
the motor.

Suddenly he peered through the windshield. In the thidc
snow sparkling in the glare of his headlights he could
make out two persons—one a woman. Didn't they see
his lights? They were walking right toward the jeep. He
slammed the heel of his hand on the horn but they kept
on coming. In a few more steps they were standing
beside him.

HE WOMAN was slight and pale—there was a
transparent frailness about her. The loose, threadbare
coat she wore did not conceal the fact that she was
pregnant, The man, a good bit older than the woman,
seemed to be trying to rub warmth into the arm that was
in a sling as he spoke to the sergeant in slow, German-
accented English. His teeth chattered as he told of their
plight, raising his voice because of the sound of the motor.
The sergeant frowned, So the man’s wife was going to
have a baby, the husband had a broken arm and they
had no place to go! They can't find room at the inn!
Well, it was the fault of people like themselves that
Munich was kaputt. They could go and tell some Germans
their troubles. The sergeant raced. the engine, and pressed
down on the clutch pedal. Did-anybody think of him when

DECEMBER 1949

they assigned him to the Christmas Eve run—when all
the other guys were out having a good time?

A short, sharp, agonized cry went up from the woman,
and it made the sergeant cringe. He turned and saw her
thin, blue fingers grasp her husband's wrist and her nails
eat into his flesh. Then, while he stared, she collapsed
into the snow.

HEN YOU haven't planned to do something and

suddenly find yourself doing it, you can't always
remember just exactly how everything happened. Later,
the sergeant could remember the reckless blind drive
along the snow-filled road, then the frenzied pounding on
the door of the Gasthaus (inn), but that was about all he
could recall.

The husband and the sergeant were sitting by a small
stove in the Gasthaus now, the husband telling, in his
slow English, of his school-teaching days, how he and his
wife had fled from the Eastern Zone and were on their
way to a small Bavarian village and some of his relatives.

He became flustered as he told the rest of the story,
glancing at his wife on the cot with every word. Was
this the first baby the sergeant had ever delivered?

Yes, it was, The sergeant walked over to the cot and
looked at the baby boy again. It all seemed like a dream.

HE THREE GI's who had come down from the motor

pool when the sergeant phoned were bending over
the cot, staring at the warmly-wrapped child nestled
beside his mother. They had brought gifts with them—
some rations, soap, blankets and a jug of hot coffee,

The little old German woman who had opened up the
Gasthaus, who had also started the fire and complained
to her husband when he was slow in hauling out the cot,
turned toward the new baby just then and smiled faintly;
suddenly the woman in the bed spoke, softly and slowly,
studying the sergeant as her words filled the room.

The new father listened closely. When she finished he
spoke to the sergeant, “I will for you translate what she
has said.” All eyes studied the tall, lean man, obviously
one who had known better days.

“She has said, ‘Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one
of the least of these, My brethren, ye have done it unto
Me.’ The Gasthaus woman nodded, as if she had checked
the translation, and approved it, The tall soldier who had
brought the blankets nodded then, and said loudly, “Peace
on earth, good will to men.”

All eyes in the room, which by then were on the
sergeant, seemed to suddenly set on the baby wrapped
and nestled beside his mother. In the child they appeared
to be seeing the new tomorrow, a. tomorrow with. peace
on earth if the good will that had brought the baby into
the world. would be cherished and practiced by alk As
the group continued to stare at the infant, soft and warm
in his mother’s arms, they were all filled with hope.......:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
Symbol of Progress

By DR. JAMES R. NEWMAN

US State Commissioner, Hesse

“ZN INVESTIGATOR sent out by my headquarters
in December 1946 to study conditions in Hesse
and to tell us in Military Government the type
of Christmas the Germans in the state could
expect, brought back a grim story of human

y, wreckage. It was the story of Kostheim, located

but a few miles from Wiesbaden and Mainz. It told of
babies clothed in rags barely surviving in a crowded, rain-
drenched ruin of what was once a temporary shelter for
day laborers, It described conditions that can only be
called shocking and deplorable. The report concluded that
the population was falling into nihilism and that children
were sinking into moral decay and misery.

Kostheim was a town of a little more than 11,000 per-
sons, Then, its population had increased some 50 percent
since 1939 and, at the same time, its housing facilities
had decreased 40 percent because of war damage, That
Christmas 2.3 percent of the children came to school
barefoot; 10 percent had no shoes and were able to attend
school only if the mother, father or one of the brothers
or sisters remained at home; 30 percent were going to
school without any lunch; 13 percent went to school with
empty stomachs, and 14 percent did not own a pair ot
stockings; 50 percent of the school children slept two and
three in a bed and almost all had some ailment—50 percent
had rickets and 25 percent were undernourished,

The report noted: “The homes of the school children are
breeding grounds for vermin, contagious diseases and the
decay of morals and decency among youth.”

HAT WAS the dawn of Christmas 1946. That was but
three short years ago. I can never forget those days,

with lines of people, packs on their backs, searching the
countryside looking for potatoes, bread, fat, almost
anything worth eating. Store windows were empty;
factory chimneys stood smokeless, like ghosts in the raw
winter sky; clothing was old, tattered, threadbare,

Homes were dark, dank, dreary and cold with the
wretchedness of privation and fear and pessimism, Coal,
wood and other fuels were virtually non-existent. Housing
was pitiable, with several families sharing war-torn
dwellings and wearing inadequate clothing indoors as
some protection against the biting, penetrating cold,

Schools expressed the Christmas spirit of the youth.
Boys and girls with scrubbed faces stared out of desolate
eyes, shivering under their inadequate garments, at an
elderly teacher, herself suffering from the cold, while

‘ rain water dripped from her bomb-damaged ceiling.

Americans—troops, civilians and dependents—were
quick to spot the Christmas in store for the Hessian youth
and, reacting as Americans always do to misery, they
pooled their economic resources, their time and their
ability to make Christmas a little brighter—for the
children, at least. Throughout Hesse, wherever there was
an American, parties were held and gifts given to the
children. American feeling, in 1946, was the only ray of
brightness in that cold, miserable Christmas.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

- and youngsters are going to school

ODAY, ANY casual observer walking down any street

in Hesse can see the difference. Store windows are
heavily laden with welcome, quality commodities; factory
chimneys are belching forth a continual stream of smoke;
well-shod and
warmly-clothed. The expressions in the eyes of the
children have changed. Well-scrubbed faces now look
eagerly at a _ better-dressed, younger, better-trained
teacher. Classrooms are heated. War damage has been
repaired. While Hesse is not yet riding a crest of pros-
perity, there can be no question in any mind that the
economic life has been bettered considerably. My in-
vestigators, this year, brought back no report such as the
Kostheim report.

Christmas of 1949 looms on the horizon as the merriest
and happiest in many years for the people of Hesse. The
three years since the Kostheim report tell the story of
German progress under US Military Government and the
US High Commission. These three years tell the world
of American generosity, help and encouragement, The
three years constitute historic, recorded proof of the
success of the policy of the United States Government,
the Marshall Plan, and the men and women here in
Germany who are, daily, devoting themselves to duty so
that Germany may make those adjustments necessary for
her to become a member of the unit of peaceful, demo-
cratic free nations of the Western world.

Christmas 1946 seemed to hold little room for “good
will” Christmas 1949 holds more than just a promise
of “good will to all men.”

Year after Blockade

By GERTRUD BRANDSCH -BOEHM
14-Year-Old School Girl, US Sector, Berlin
(Translated from German)

G HRISTMAS TIME is nearing and I hope that
this one will be quite different from the one
last year. At that time we lived in Berlin like
on an island, isolated by the blockade. ©
In the evening the family gathered at the

77 table around a smoking kerosene lamp. We

huddled together to be able to see and at the same time
to keep ourselves warm. We sat wrapped in blankets and
coats, for we could not afford a warm room with a coal
ration of 25 pounds for the whole winter.

In school it was not possible to hold the pencil without
gloves because of the cold. We were happy when we
had fewer lessons due to the heavy cold. Thus we had
more time to go sledding.

At noon it was always the same food that awaited us,
dehydrated potatoes, dried vegetables, dried fruit and milk
powder. Since gas consumption was limited, canned
meat was advantageous.

In spite of all the difficulties, I was looking forward
to Christmas and I was not disappointed. My greatest
joy was the invitation to a Christmas party by the Ameri-
cans, Here I had some unforgettable hours. I also brought
home presents for my brothers and sisters.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 8 ---
This year everything looks different. In the shops
almost everything is available. However, because of the
double currency we cannot afford even the most essential.
My father, like many others in Berlin, is earning only
East marks and we need West marks to go shopping.
These are worth six times as much as the East marks.
Also in this respect we expect an improvement for
Christmas this year.

Nevertheless, I enjoy the bright illuminated windows
of the shops.

I am dreaming of finding some of the things on my
gift table at Christmas. But I don't worry about that.
I have the good luck to look forward to a Christmas time
with my parents and four brothers and sisters, Many
children all over the world do not have this privilege.

The Displaced Sergeant

By JOHN A. BIGGS
Public Relations Branch
OLC Bavaria

ERGEANT MICHAEL O'HARA was very un-

happy. He was lonely, he hated Germany, and

it was Christmas Eve! He hunched his should-
ers against the cold and swore softly to him-
— self about army injustices. “Taking a man from

7) his wife and three kids just before Christmas,”
he said aloud, “and shipping him into a dump like this.”

The sergeant tried to imagine what his good-natured,
round-faced Molly and the three young ones would be
doing now, but reducing the time discrepancy between
Munich, Germany, and Trenton, New Jersey, was too
difficult. He told himself it didn't matter and abandoned
the idea.

He passed a crowded German beer hall and looked in.
The warmth of the place, the loud Bavarian music -and
the happy laughter of the occupants goaded him. “Those
Germans!" he said, as he backed into the street again.
“If I go in I'll get into a fight and get myself into a
pack of trouble." The sergeant wavered for a second as
the cold wind bit through his thick overcoat. A group
of Germans went by singing Christmas carols.

LE eettegs THOUGHT of the Buergerbraeu Keller, the
great beer hall where Hitler had narrowly missed
death from an assassin's bomb in 1941. Since the war it
had been converted into a Special Service Club and
Snack Bar for GIs‘. “I'll go there,” he said to himself.
“It's a cinch I won't see no Germans and I'll get warm.”
He hailed an ancient lumbering taxi.

The low raftered room that had been Munich's biggest
beer hall was alive with activity. Red and green paper
streamers hung from the ceiling, and a big crowd of kids
was milling around the room in a children’s game to
the tune of a tinny piano. At the far end of the hall hung
a great white sign lettered in red: “Christmas Party for
German Children, sponsored by the American Women's
Club of Munich. EVERYBODY WELCOME."

“Everybody, that is, but me, Mike,” the sergeant said
to himself.

DECEMBER 1949

- As he went. back. out in the street the sergeant felt
worse than he had all evening. “I'll get out of here and
go back to camp" he said, pulling viciously on his
cigarette and then throwing it into the street. It had
hardly settled into the freshly fallen snow before a small
form darted out of the shadows and scooped it up deftly
in a gurbby hand that was blue with cold.

Sergeant O'Hara looked down contemptuously at the
small figure. “They don't even behave like kids," he said.
He grabbed for the boy and heard the sound of tearing
cloth as he dragged the struggling child towards him.
“Why ain't you in there playing with those other kids?
Why ain't you, huh?”

HE KID was shivering. O'Hara wasn't sure whether it
was from cold or fright, or both. He dragged the thin-
faced, terrified youngster into the light and shook him
with mounting indignation. “Answer my question, youl

Why ain't you in there playing with those other kids?”

The boy stared at the sergeant, ‘Because I hate al!
of you Americans,” he said in broken English. “I hate
you because you're fat and rich. And you've never
known what it means to be hungry.’ He stopped shiver-
ing for a moment and then suddenly sank his teeth into
the hand of Sergeant Michael O'Hara. As the sergeant
drew his hand away in pain, suddenly all the hatred and
loneliness of the night went out of him,

The German kid was halfway down the street before
the sergeant started moving. The boy ducked into an
alley, but the small paper-thin shoes slipped on the icy
ground and the sergeant was on him,

The boy whimpered softly as the sergeant lifted him
to his feet. O'Hara looked down at the terror-stricken
little face, too old for its years, and suddenly he laughed
for the first time that night. He took off his coat and
wrapped it around the frightened youngster.

“O.K., Superman. So our American hospitality isn’t
good enough for you, huh? Well, whether you like it or
not, you're going to get yourself the best Christmas dinner
you've ever had. And if that mess sergeant of ours has
gone, I'll cook the turkey myself!"

As he dragged the now quiet boy out of the alley and
looked up the street for a taxi, he was thinking to him-
self how much better Molly and the kids would feel when
he wrote them about this.

A Christmas Carol

By PAVILS KLANS
Staff Writer of “Latvija”
Latvian DP Newspaper
Esslingen, Wuerttemberg -Baden

OU SMALL CHILDREN, come along and sing,
because it's Christmas again.” So go the words
of a favorite Christmas song of the Latvian
people.
And because Mrs. Kalnins, a Latvian displa-
4 ced person in Germany, wanted music for her
small son Harijs last Christmas, she is able to celebrate
Christmas this year in the United States.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Mrs. Kalnins worked in the American Army kitchen at
Seckenheim, where she used to fight off boredom and un-
pleasant thoughts by trying to hear melodies in the clang-
ing of pots and the rattle of chinaware. Suddenly one day
she felt a great need for a piano at home to make these
melodies true.

She put an advertisement in the German newspapers
of Mannheim. She asked: could she not borrow or rent
a piano? No German would help her. As soon as Mrs.
Kalnins spoke, the people would say: “Oh! You're a
foreigner. You're from the foreigners’ camp in Mannheim.”

IHEN CAME the German currency reform of mid-1948.

Money in Germany again became real money. Mrs.
Kalnins was able to rent a piano. Bringing the piano to
the camp was a solemn procession. Not only the children
and ‘the aged people of the camp, but also the American
soldiers across the street were watching it.

Mrs. Kalnins had a little son, Harijs. Every night after
coming home from work, Mrs. Kalnins played for little
Harijs folk songs and other melodies she remembered
from her own childhood. They both were happy.

Then came the opportunity for her to be resettled in the
United States. There were some strange but good people
ready to give shelter to her and her child. That was fine.
But all the time a thought hurt her: “Can I do it? What
happens if my husband would return?” In 1941 he was

_ deported by the Russians to Siberia. She could not get
rid of the memory—the horrifying night in 1941 when
secret police took her sick husband out of bed and
dragged him away.

All the IRO and American authorities, who handled
resettlement problems according to the letter of the law,
asked the same question: “Have you any proof of the
whereabouts of your husband?”

Mrs, Kalnins always gave the same answer, the truth:
“I do not know a thing about him.” The resettlement
process was postponed, Mrs, Kalnins went on waiting.
She really did not know for what she was waiting.

HRISTMAS CAME last year while she still was waiting.

Mrs. Kalnins lighted the candles on her tiny tree.
She and little Harijs sat in their room, drank tea and Mrs.
Kalnins could not but think how strange it is that Christ-
mas becomes so very sad if you can not spend it the
proper way.

Her thoughts went back to childhood, to school years,
to Christmas of that time and then suddenly she re-
membered that somewhere in the bottom of a trunk she
had a little book with Christmas carols. It had been there
all these years. She-never knew how it happened to
come into the trunk among other things she had thrown
together in a hurry when the Germans had ordered her
from her home in Riga to work three years in a war
factory.

But this was the first Christmas after many years when
she could use the little book. This war the first time she
had a piano again. F

Mrs, Kalnins got the song book out. She started to
play “Holy Night..." All the windows in the big bar-
racks camp across the street were bright with candle

INFORMATION BULLETIN

light. Still it was Christmas even for those who had lost
their homes,

But when Mrs. Kalnins again closed the book, some-
thing dropped out of it. She started. It was an envelope
with a stamp of the Soviet Union. And it clearly showed
the date: June 16, 1941. Mrs. Kalnins had never noticed
it before. She tore the envelope and read:

"This is to send you last regards from your husband,
Jekabs Kalnins. He died this morning in the train of
deportees. We proceed eastwards. Think of us. God help
you. Andris.”

RS. KALNINS WEPT all Christmas Eve. Although

she had got used to the thought that Jekabs, taken
away ill, could not have survived, still she had not
known it. Only after midnight did she realize that this
letter could help her as proof. Now the resettlement
authorities would permit her to emigrate.

Not many days later the black piano was moved out
through the camp gate because Mrs, Kalnins no longer
needed it.

This Christmas she probably will play again for little
Harijs—this time somewhere in America, She certainly
will play carols from the same book, and both will re-
member last Christmas Eve, when everything seemed so
hopeless until the little tattered paper book opened
the way.

Berlin Christmas, 1945

By SPERO GALANOPULO
AFN Berlin Commentator

T WAS THE MONTH in Berlin that the number

of “high point" troops dwindled down to several

hundred and a quota of 9,000 young replace-

ments had almost been reached. It was the month

the big city’s American community was getting

4 set for its first gas rationing; young Pvt. Philip

Cass forced his way through a crowd of terrified German

onlookers to dive into the Friedrichsplatz fire reservoir to

rescue an eight-year-old boy who had plunged through

the thin ice; teddy bears, dolls and other items on sale for

thousands of marks each in the Tiergarten black market;

overseas phone service for occupation personnel was in

the testing stage and Kreuzberg, largest of the six

boroughs in the American Sector, was the first to be
turned over to German control.

It was the month that a special seasonal display was set
up in the American Sector featuring a New England village
scene of life-size front replicas of a spired church flanked
by a town hall and the home of the poet James Russell
Lowell. The entire set symbolized Democracy's freedom of
thought, expression and religion. There was a 60-foot tree
with 1,500 colored light bulbs and indirect lighting and
foot. bleachers stretched in a semi-circle for a trained
GI glee club and for everyone else who wanted to join
in the carols. i

And Maj. Gen. Ray W. Barker, commander of the 78th
Division, parked his car a block away one evening, walked

{Continued on page 22)

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 10 ---
By MARGARET SORENSON

GYA Section, OPOT Division, EUCOM Headquarters

F GYA WERE to select a
theme for this year, it
would be a simple word—

Others.”

“It is more blessed to
give than to receive,” said
» Whose birthday we honor
each Christmas Day. This year GYA,
in cooperation with German citizens of
every community as well as with the
American personnel at every military
post, is turning from a Christmas
which is only a friendly handout to
a Christmas which more nearly
typifies the true meaning of Yuletide
spirit, cheer and service for others.

During the last few Christmas
seasons in Germany there was a
greater need to make some sort of
Christmas for every child because
the stores were bare of gifts and
goodies, This year, the Germans want
to help provide a Christmas for their
children. It is especially for the un-
fortunate children without parents,
all those who are ill or disabled, that
most lavish plans are being made by
GYA,

In Wetzlar, a special GYA Craft
Shop has been opened to make toys
for orphans and other needy children,

and the girl's sewing classes are
making garments to be given away.
Groups of children will visit all of
the hospitals and sing Christmas

carols. Wetzlar also plans a big
Christmas festival for the entire
community.

The Bremen Port of Embarkation
is preparing a Christmas play which
will be presented for the cheer of
hospital patients, and also plans
Christmas pageants and musical
festivals in Bremerhaven and Bremen
which will be attended by both Ger-
mans and Americans.

N FRANKFURT, special effort is

being made to provide Christmas
entertainment at all. orphanages and
old people’s homes and to present
the unfortunate with handmade gifts
and sweets. A German-American
youth commitee in Stuttgart is work-
ing through GYA to bring Christmas
cheer to 15,000 crippled, blind and
sick children.

In the Heidelberg Military Post,
a Christmas program is being or-
ganized to provide special parties for
35 orphanages and hospitals. Several
staff sections of EUCOM Head-

quarters are each sponsoring a
special party under the supervision
of American personnel for one of
these institutions. The GYA personnel
are assisting hundreds of individual
clubs and schools in the organization
of their Christmas program.

German businessmen in Augsburg
are donating gifts which GYA will
use to bring Christmas cheer to the
local hospitals and orphanages.
Groups of children from the GYA
Centers will present entertainment
and Christmas songs to these orphan-
ages and hospitals and make small
gifts to the children. The American
Women's Club is emphasizing the
necessity of warm clothes and food
rather than candy and nuts.

HE BERLIN Military Post is
making provision to bring cheer
to 65,000 to 70,000 children. The Ger-
man Welfare Office is providing the
GYA Christmas committee with the
names of needy children in addition
to those who are in hospitals and
orphanages. Special Christmas parties
will be held at each GYA Center,
and groups of children participating
in GYA will provide Christmas trees
and small gifts for those children.
In Garmisch, clothing and toys are
being made at the GYA Center for
presentation to many of the children

Members of the Berlin Teenagers’
Club collected toys—broken and new
—to be given to needy German
children at the Berlin Military Post's
Christmas parties. The toys were taken
to the All-American Service Club,
where they are being repaired and
painted by soldiers of BMP. L. to r.
are teenagers Ralph Etzold, New York
City; Florence I. Siebens, Toledo, O.;
Pat Ashworth, Dallas, Tex.; Jimmy
Cobble, Rouge River, Ore.; Freddy
Martin, from Washington state; and
Miss Ruth Parks, of Stoneham, Mass.,
Special Services hostess at the All-
American Service Club in Berlin.

(US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
in this small
Christmas Eve groups of youngsters
will serenade the Old People’s Home
and the Welfare Kitchen with Christ-
mas carols.

Bavarian town. On

In Nuremberg, a special fund is
being raised by the Christmas commit-
tee to provide assistance for needy
German and DP children. Represen-
tatives of military units in this area
will visit the hospitals, orphanges and
tefugee camps during the season.

At Oberammergau, the GYA staff,
the American Women's Club and the
citizens of the community are working
hand in hand to organize a ‘Christmas
program worthy of the occasion for
all the people of that community, At
the suggestion of Mrs, Joseph Shiebot,
wife of the GYA officer, many of the
American ladies of the community
have already visited German families,
In many cases this is their first visit

_ in a German home.

When the ladies from two countries
met each other as friends, they found
that there was no difference in their

GI's of BMP supervised the
making of toys of every
conceicable sort which
were given to German
children at Christmas 1947,
when the 759th MP Bn. fed
well over 3,000 boys and
girls, which, it is believed,
is the largest number so
entertained by a_ single
unit in the history of the
occupation, (US Army photo)

fundamental ideals. Maybe the dress-
sed differently or there was some
superficial difference, but these do
not matter.

This is all leading to a gala com-
munity pageant, the theme of which
will be religion in keeping with the
real meaning of Christmas, all of
which will be very fitting to the life
of this community which next year
will again present the Passion Play.

Personnel of Air Force Installations
throughout the US Zone are each
planning to bring Christmas cheer to
all the needy youth within their com-
munities.

In Munich and Wuerzburg, plans
for a gala celebration with big com-
munity Christmas festivals are under
way. The ist Infantry Division and
the US Constabulary units will take
an active part in the season's celebra-
tions,

In addition to the special provi-
sions for the unfortunate, the boys
and girls who have been regularly
attending the GYA Centers’ special

classes and groups will each have
their own parties. Most of these
parties will ‘be planned and actually
conducted by the children themselves.
They will draw names to discover
for which of their friends they will
provide a gift, A Christmas committee
of club members will plan the pro-
gram, while another committee works
out the details for refreshments.

Parents and relatives of the chil-
dren will attend these parties and
inspect the various exhibits of art,
sewing and handicraft which have
been made by their children, The
entertainments will consist of plays,
puppet shows, ballet, (Christmas
poems and group singing of Christ-
mas carols,

HROUGH ALL of these activities

the German youth will continue
to learn how people live in a demo-
cracy, They will also learn that with
the many privileges which are ex-
tended to them in democratic acti-
vities there are also responsibilities
which each must accept,

Americans and Germans through
their cooperative effort on behalf of
the children are proving that even in
this muddled world of today there is
still a majority who have “Good will
to all men.” If peoples of this world
would continue to work together as
the Americans and Germans are doing
to provide Christmas cheer for the
German children, we would be able
to better understand the true meaning
of the Christmas Angel's message of
“Peace on earth.” + END

Christmas 1946 was brightened for these German kiddies by Yuletide meals and gifts donated by American occupation
personnel, both service and civilian. Left, typical group of eager youngsters queue up outside a mess half; right,
Christmas carols at a tree party, a scene enacted at all military posts and GYA centers throughout the American zone
each year since 1945.

(US Army photos)

--- Page 12 ---
New Ideas for Women

HE FIRST THING I noticed when

I went to the United States

was the absence of ruins; the second

thing that impressed me was the lack
of suspicion between people."

This was one of the many vivid
impressions brought back recently to
their compatriots by German women
who this year traveled and studied
in the United States. During a
weekend of informal discussions and
round-table conferences, sponsored
at Haus Schwalbach by the German-
American Women's Club of Wies-
baden more than 200 American and
German women talked, ate and lived
together, discussing with the newly-
retumed Germans how mutual home
and community problems could be
solved,

During the more formal part of the
program, a baker's dozen German
women—persons who had studied US
prisons, education, labor relations,
farm extension work and community
life as part of the US cultural ex-
change program—gave their views,
interrupted by many questions and
interpolations from the listeners. Be-
ginning hesitantly and always with
an apology for their knowledge of
English, although many of them spoke
fluently, these women decribed
customs common in democratic

— — Germans Inspired by Visits to US

By MARJORIE A. YAHRAES

Information Bulletin Staff Writer

nations as voyagers must have
related two centuries ago the new
ways of living observed in the Far
East,

ERHAPS THE most’ confusing

aspect of their reports was the
inability of both visitors and audience
to grasp the size and complexity of
the United States, Each visitor had
been to America for two to three
months; yet several were inclined to
think their own experiences and
observations were typical of the
whole country. For example, when
a trade union lawyer reported that
the average worker's salary in the
United States is $53 for a 40-hour
week, it was very difficult to convince
a listener later that a Tennessee cot-
ton picker may not get that amount
in a whole month, Isolated examples
of high living standards attained in
the United States discouraged some
as impossible goals to reach in
Germany.

In spite of seeing too little too
briefly, however, the Germans return-
ed with a rich fund of information
and new ideas on how US ways
could be applied constructively in
their own communities. One visitor
suggested that Europeans must forget
their own standards and customs in
order to understand America.

Typical of the international gatherings of women in postwar Germany is this
meeting of women leaders for discussion at Haus Schwalbach in Wiesbaden,
Hesse, recently. Speaker at moment is a Frenchwoman.

(PRB, OLCH photo)

“In Germany tradition is considered
sacred,” she said, “but Americans are
not burdened with the past, They
consider tradition that which tries to
limit them.”

HERE WAS unfeigned admiration

for social attitudes they had
observed in America. One woman
summed up her remarks by saying
that US life “is so much easier and
practical than that in Germany,
People have more time for group
activities, and they have more time
because they cooperate in group life."

One thought the reason for the high
standard of living was the ideal
balance between collectivism and
individualism, Another reported that
she “never before realized there could
be such a high percentage of citizens
in a country who were interested in
what they can do to make the world
a better place in which to live." She
was particularly interested that
idealism was combined with an
attitude of realism or practicality.

How American citizens attain these
traits deeply interested all those
present, The director of a Frankfurt
kindergarten thought she had learned
the answer, “The aim of US educa-
tion,” she observed, “is inner security,
This will stand when materia] security
goes, The groundwork for this inner
security must be laid im early
childhood and it is in the American
kindergarten that this element is
established. The child is given a
sense of belonging because the parents
respect the child as an individual.
The teacher, on the other hand,
believes each child will be a better’
individual if he is trusted. This
attitude of trust remains when the
children have grown into adults.”

In an American child's early school
experience the teacher stands in the
background, respecting his indi-
viduality. “But,” she added, “the child
is trained to listen. While one

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Fifth convention of Federated German-American
Discussion Clubs is addressed at Wiesbaden
Nov. 4 by Dr. James E. Newman (standing), state
commissioner for Hesse, who indirectly attacked
Soviet indoctrination of German youth and
called on the federated clubs to work for peace
and freedom of the youth of the world. At
speaker's table (I. tor.) are Helga Kieger; Wies-
Louise
Fullmer, president of the federated clubs; New-
man; Ruth Woodsmall, HICOG Women's Affairs
chief; and Samuel E. Combs, chief of Field
(PRB, OLCH photo)

baden's Mayor Hans _ Redelhammer;

Operations, OLCH,

describes his little experiences, the
others are disciplined to listen care-
fully, to understand and see upon
which points they agree, Then, after
seeing the points of agreement, they
may state the issues upon which they
disagree, Agreement and listening to
the other person's opinions thus
‘become an early part of an American
child's training.”

The smooth transition between
kindergarten and first grade in the
United States is not common in
Germany, where kindergartens are
separated from the schools and the
schoo] system. This transit should be
made easier, she believes, in order
that what is taught in the all-important
first years will mesh together.

OR THE FIRST time the idea of

coeducation is being discussed
as a possibility for German public
schools, While some women from the
audience reported that girls and boys
could not concentrate so well or
devote themselves so seriously to
their studies in mixed classes, others
maintained that it was a healthy
‘arrangement for children to be in
mixed groups as they would be in
later life.

Problems of adult life were also
discussed, including conditions in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

correctional institutions,
public health and, in parti-
cular, women’s problems in
postwar Germany, Until
1933, German prisons were
up-to-date, but since then
the penal system has fallen
back while other countries
have gone ahead. “The Uni-
ted States is first in the
practice of new, improved
ideas," reported a director of
a Frankfurt women's prison.
“We must encourage in Ger-
many the attitude in institu-
tions of helping people
instead of punishing them.
Inmates must be enriched
spiritually if they are to
improve.”

She cited the advantages
of using psychiatrists to clas-
sify prisoners according to
their abilities and their
needs. The parole system in
force in the United States
was also a plan which she favored for
Germany. Although the parole is
used to some extent already in Ger-
many, the director pointed out that
German prisoners must serve longer

This is the final article written by
Mrs, Yahraes as a member of the edi-
torial staff of the Information Bulletin.
Mrs. Yahraes first joined the editorial
staff of the Information Bulletin in Janu-
ary 1947 and continued until September
when she returned to the United States.
She was brought back to Germany in
August 1948 to resume her work on the
Information Bulletin, Previously she had
been a feature writer for Philadelphia
newspapers, member of the editorial
staff of En Guardia, State Department-
sponsored magazine for South America,
and correspondent for an American news
magazine in Mexico City.

During her service on the Information
Bulletin, Mrs. Yahraes wrote several
bylined articles, but her principal respon-
sibility was to obtain, rewrite and adapt
to magazine style the manuscript of
articles. Among her bylined articles
have been:

Leipzig Fair, Issue No. 84 of March 17,
1947,

Show Windows of Bizonal Exports,
Issue No. 112 of Sept. 29, 1947.

Four Christmases, Issue No. 150 of
Dec. 14 1948,

Glass and Ceramics, Issue No. 163 of
June 14, 1949,

Leather Industry, Issue No.
July 26, 1949,

Textile and Clothing Industry, Issue of
November 1949,

166 of

10

before applying for parole and that
more careful, understanding help is
needed for persons leaving their
regimented life for the outside world.

Through the American schools is
also developed an understanding of
the principles of public health which
a returning German doctor thought
should be instilled in the German
population, One of the visitors
remarked upon the excellent friendly
relations between US school children
and the public health doctors and
nurses who came to treat and examine
boys and girls at the schools, It was
suggested that “a close contact
between physicians in the United
States and Germany is especially
important in bringing Germany up-to-
date in medicine and public health."

BOVE ALL, the German women

gathered at Haus Schwalbach
were interested in the woman's place
in postwar Germany—how she can
lift herself from the drudgery of the
ill-equipped home and farm and find
time to take an active interest and
part in the life of her community and
nation, Lacking experience in group
activities, the women complained that
they were afraid of public speaking
and were unfamiliar with the basic
principles of group organization,

On the other hand, they showed an
awakening sense of responsibility and
an eagerness to take part in improving
community life. Until the housewife
can free herself from some of the
olt-fashioned time-consuming equip-
ment and routine, however, such com-
munity participation was felt to be
impossible for the majority of German
women,

Visitors to the United States were
impressed particularly by the modern
equipment made available to women
for their work, They observed that
most US working women are mar-
tied, in contrast to those in Germany.
They found that US women wo1k both
to improve the financial status of the
family and because of a pride in
accomplishment. One woman re-
marked that “professional women in
the United States look well-groomed;
they have personality and femininity
along with their careers.”

Such a dual role of worker and
housewife was possible, they found,

(Continued on page 15)

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 14 ---
N SCAFFOLDINGS in the winding

streets of Oberammergau the
plasterers and housepainters, who are
busily at work renovating the colorful
murals that adorn so many house
fronts, sport beards and sideburns, So
do the gas station attendant and the
mailman, The Passion Play is less than
six months away and since last winter
all male participants, 1,000 in all, have
had to forego use of the razor and of
the barber's shears.

The barber, who is letting his own
hair grow wild, is not worried. As
in every tenth year, the communal
treasury subsidizes him during his
period of slack business. The village
fathers know that customers must
stay away from his shop if the village
is to be prosperous, because its
prosperity hinges on the Passion Play.

And if the play is to be a success,
bearded villagers must help to pro-
vide the proper atmosphere. What is
more, in the sharply revealing light of
a daytime performance, which has to
go on even when the rain deluges the
open air section of the playhouse
stage, artificial beards might be
embarassing for patriarchal roles.

OQ UNDERSTAND what makes
this village and its amateur
players one of the world's leading

By PAUL W. FREEDMAN

tourist attractions and the focus of
deeply-felt religious experience, we
must go back more than three cen-
turies. Not even in 1945 was Germany
so completely devastated as towards
the end of the Thirty Years’ War in
1634,

It was not battles and famine only
that laid waste whole provinces. The
dreaded plague was sweeping the

Mr. Freedman has been asso-
ciated with US occupation opera-
tions in Germany since the
war. Formerly with the intelli-
gence service of the US Army,
he joined the US staff of the
International Military Tribunal in
Nuremberg as a senior research
analyst in screening and evalua-
ting documents used in the pro-
secution of the top Nazi war
criminals. Later he joined OMG
Bavaria as editor of the daily
intelligence report and of “Trend,”
biweekly report on Bavarian
political activities. In October
1948, he joined the staff of the
US-published Die Neue Zeitung
in Munich as associate editor
and later became text editor of
HEUTE, US-published German-
language pictorial magazine. He
is now with the Office of Political
Affairs, HICOG.

Photographs from HEUTE

Table for The Last Supper scene in Passion Play. Right, boy woodcarver.

country. Prospering townships turned
into deserted ghost towns. There were
districts in which not a single peasant
remained alive. From the valleys of
Bavaria the epidemic of “Black
Death" stalked upwards along the
Ammer river, where foothills grow
into the Tyrolean Alps.

There, in a scenic beauty spot,
nestles Oberammergau. By blocking
off all roads, the citizenry hoped to
quarantine the picturesque village. It
was to no avail. Quickly, 84 of the
300 residents died. The symptoms of
pestilence had thrown many more on
a sickbed from which they were not
expected to recover. The sign of death
was upon Obera nmergau,.

N THIS EMERGENCY the village
council assembled in the church
and made a solemn vow. They pledged
that if He, who had sent the plague,
were to save the village from it, they
would every tenth year perform a
play depicting the sufferings of Christ.
And, so the ancient chronicles re-
port, there were no more victims. The
next year the passion of the Savior
was re-enacted for the first time. The
pledge has been honored every de-
cade since. Only during the Napo-
leonic troubles, in the economic
crisis after World War I and during

--- Page 15 ---
World War II was the
schedule disrupted.

At first, only passages of the New
Testament were read aloud, with
villagers reciting the words of God
the Father, of Mary, of Christ and of
his disciples, But the natural acting
genius that is an inborn trait of the
play-loving, temperamental natives of
southern Bavaria led local playwrights
to produce scenarios for elaborate
performances. The present musical
score dates from 1810, the text from
1850 — when performances were ad-
vanced by four years, from 1850 to
1854, so that they would always take
place at the end of each decade. Only

10-year

Typical Bavarian products.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

in 1934, to celebrate the 300th jubilee,
was the Passion Play returned to its
original cycle.

In the last few generations the
world began to hear of the Passion
Plays, which until then had been a
mere local tradition for the devoutly
Catholic villagers and their neighbors.
It had become big business. There
were more than 400,000 visitors
during each of the last two seasons,
in 1930 and 1934. Upon them, the im-
pact of this re-enactment of the story
of Jesus Christ is still a religious
one. Innumerable spectators have
considered it one of the spiritual high
points of their lives.

Stocking up for Holy Year.

ROM 8.30 in the morning until 6 in
the evening, with a two-hour
break for lunch, the gospel story
unfolds in the playhouse, In the morn-
ing it spans the time from Christ's
entry into Jerusalem to his arrest in
the Garden of Gethsemane. In the
afternoon, the first tableau shows the
court scene in the palace of Annas
the high priest.

Most moving scene is the cruci-
fixion, when the player who enacts
the role of Christ staggers under the
weight of an 80-pound cross on the
way to Golgatha and _ remains
suspended upon it, grasping two bent
nails that appear to protrude from
his palms, for 20 minutes. With the
triumphant resurrection the per-
formance reaches its climax, while the

12

Prospective players.

choir sings: “Halleluja! Praise, Fame,
Adoration, Power and Glory be Thine
for ever and ever.”

Tradition prescribes that all par-
ticipants — with the technical staff,
they number approximately 1,700 —
must be natives of Oberammergau, or
must have resided there for at least
20 years. Anyone remaining absent
from the village for more than five
years disqualities himself. Girls
playing the female roles must be un-
married and under 35. The one chosen
to portray Mary must enjoy “unsullied
reputation.”

But this year the rigid eligibility
rules have had to be relaxed some-

Carvings of the Crucifixion.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 16 ---
what. For one thing, the war and
PW camps had kept many a native
away for longer than five years. They
may take part, and so may all children
attending elementary school. This is
considered a major concession,
because aimost half of them were not
born within sight of the Alps. Their
parents are ethnic Germans expelled
from eastern Europe, refugees from
the Soviet Zone or evacuees from
the big cities.

Among Oberammergau's 5,200 in-
habitants, 2,000 newcomers loom
large. They are a perpetual reminder
of the Hitler-generated tempest that
has tossed scores of millions of human
beings across the face of Europe like
leaves in the wind. Not only in
bomb-damaged cities, but in remote
villages such as Oberammergau which
the war has passed by and that re-
main steeped in tradition, established
patterns have been upset. The so-
ciological and national composition
of the population has undergone fun-
damental changes,

ITH THE HELP of Marshall Plan

funds, Oberammergau was re-
cently granted a credit of DM 1,000,000
($238,000) after long and difficult
negotiations, It is an enormous sum
in the credit-starved postwar German
money market, and enables the vil-
lage not only to repair its streets,
modernize its public utilities and

Mass production of wooden figurines
has come to Oberammergau, which
entertained 400,000 visitors in 1934.
Carver at leit applies deft finishing
to conveyor-belt

touches products.

refurnish its hotels, but to build
houses for the expellees so that they
can be moved out of the hotels and
guest houses in which many are still
billeted. Because residents will rent
out their own rooms, the village will
then be able to provide more than
3,000 beds for the expected tourist
influx,

Within a radius of 20 miles, which
includes such resorts as Garmisch and
Mittenwald, another 8,000 beds await
tired Germans and non-military for-
eigners with money to spend.

What about accommodation for
occupation personnel? The only US
installation within the confines of the
Oberammergau Subpost is the 7712
EUCOM Intelligence School. Officer
and EM students come to its compound,
which has a breathtakingly beautiful
view of mountains and valley, to take
G-2 and MP courses. Built in 1937 as
German army barracks, this secluded
group of buildings was taken over
as engineering headquarters of the
Messerschmitt aircraft works after
1943, Col. Arthur Roth, the acting
commandant, points out that no bil-
leting facilities are available in Ober-
ammergau,

Fortunately, the Garmisch recrea-
tional center, with its many facilities
and its nine hotels reserved for occu-
pation personnel and their families,
is only 11 miles away. While detailed
plans are still in the discussion stage,

it may be expected that a substantial
proportion of the recreational center's
1,000-bed capacity will be made avail-
able to the officers, enlisted men and
HICOG or DA civilians who are
expected to converge upon Ober-
ammergau from every post between
Berlin and Trieste,

HE FIRST Passion Play perform-

ance since 1934 has been an-
nounced for Sunday, May 21, 1950,
the second one for Whit-Monday,
May 29, There will be performances
on each of the three following Sun-
days. From June 21 to Sept. 17, the
play can be seen each Wednesday
and Sunday. If the number of visitors
warrants it, extra performances will be
added on other weekdays,

Should the dream of village hotel-
owners, storekeepers and wood-
carvers, of Bavarian tourist promotion
officials and of economists with an
eye on Germany's foreign trade deficit
come true and multitudes comparable
to the 400,000 enthralled visitors of
1930 and of 1934 stream to the play-
house, there may have to be perform-
ances almost every day.

Tickets range from DM 15 to DM 5
($3.57 to $1.19 at current official
rate), The mayor of Oberammer-
gau, Raimund Lang—no less than
31 families named Lang live in the
village and constitute its elite—has
tentatively agreed to reserve blocks
of 200 tickets per performance for US

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
and British occupation personnel. If
there are enough applicants this
number might be increased. No
arrangements for their distribution
to US personnel have been made as
yet, but it is anticipated that Special
Services, EUCOM, will devise a pro-
gram for seat procurement, billeting
and a shuttle transportation service
from Garmisch,

It is also possible to reserve tickets
and, if desired, room and board in
German hotels and boarding-houses
by writing to the Verkehrsamt Ober-
ammergau, or by making arrangements
through American Express, Thos. Cook
& Son, or the Deutsches Reisebuero.

OW DOES ONE get to Ober-
ammergau? It is only 60 miles
from Munich. Drivers take the Mu-
nich-Garmisch highway and turn off
at Oberau, five miles before reaching
Garmisch, From Oberau, it is six miles
up a winding serpentine road in
excellent condition. The seeming
cutoff at Murnau is actually the same
distance and not to be recommended,
as the road is rather bumpy. From
Augsburg, Oberammergau can _ be
reached by way of Schongau (60
miles), and from Lindau by way of
Fuessen (112 miles),

The German railroads get there
from Munich via Murnau in two
hours, from Nuremberg via Augsburg
in five. However, it is best to take a
leave train to Garmisch and hop a
bus from there,

Even before the Passion Play season
has set in, Oberammergau is a worth-
while vacation spot to visit. Bearded
players look up from their daily tasks

to greet the tourist. Guides show the
playhouse, which was built in 1900
on an arena where performances had
been given since 1810. The open air
stage, with its view of the mountains,
dates from 1929, But Oberammergau
has other attractions, It is a center of
woodcarving craftsmen who whittle
out of soft wood graceful figures of
Christ and the Apostles, of mangers
showing the scene of the nativity, and
of animals,

There is a _ well-equipped trade
school to train young woodcarvers,
and a museum devoted to the devel-
opment of the art. The Herrgotts-
schnitzer, as they are called because
they usually turn their skill to the
production of religious figurines, do
not mind when tourists drop in to
watch and photograph them at work.
They except to sell their wares to
tourists, especially to Americans, in
the Passion Play season, Business is
slow at other times, There were gifted
artists among local artisans, but even
in this field of craftmanship commer-
cialization is taking its toll. Although
frowned upon, milling machines buzz
in many shops. The figurines of saints
and of Christ sold in some local
souvenir stores come off conveyor
belts,

HERE IS excellent skiing in winter,

In summer, the people of Ober-
ammergau boast about their modern
swimming pool, the Alpenbad, Near-
by are Ettal Monastery, where the
monks conduct an excellent boarding
school and distill a famous liqueur:
Castle Linderhof, one of the mag-
nificently ostentatious showplaces of

Bavaria’s mad King Ludwig II, where
priceless treasures adorn the walls;
and Wies Church, Germany's most
beautiful rococo church.

The Garmisch recreational area,
only 11 miles distant, is, of course,
famous in its own right, Capped by
Germany's highest mountain, the Zug-
spitze, it is a year-round playground
boasting scenic beauty and the
picturesque native costumes seen
everywhere,

Special Services has equipment
available for all winter and summer
sports, The Casa Carioca night club,
built by the Army with a roll-back
dance floor and a roll-back roof,
delights visitors with its lithesome,
quick-moving ice show. All the usual
facilities—PX, snack bar, Red Cross
club, barber and beauty shops, etc.—
strive to make the occupation visitor's
stay pleasant. +END

Milk for Sick Children
SAFE (Save A Friend in Europe), a
charitable organization which has sent
relief supplies ranging from emergency
food packages to coal to postwar
Germany, is now coming to the aid of
tubercular children in Heidelberg,
Answering the plea of Prof. Karl
A. Geiler, president of the University
of Heidelberg, to alleviate the suf-
fering of tubercular youngsters, and
working with the “Heifer Project
committee," a non-profit organization
designed to bring milk and dairy
products to areas in great need, SAFE
has arranged to bring a heifer from
the United States to Heidelberg,

Oberammergau, ever a focal spot for tourists not only from Europe but all parts of the world each decade when the
Passion Play is enacted, is one of the scenic spots of Bavaria. This year its inhabitants have discarded their razors

to provide the proper “atmosphere” for re-enactment, next May and all summer, of the Crucifixion.

Thus, Ober-

ammergau continues to honor a vow made three centuries ago when its remaining inhabitants survived the Black
Death epidemic which scourged Europe, wiping out innumerable towns and villages completely.

--- Page 18 ---
(Continued from page 10)
New Ideas for Women

not because of domestic help available
but because of careful planning of time
and good equipment—highly-efficient
kitchens, washers and electrical clean-
ing apparatus.

On farms, where German women
are especially burdened with primi-
tive working conditions, the visitors
found that equipment was very
similar to that of the urban popula-
tion. Home demonstration experts,
whose numbers the women felt should
be increased in Germany, meet re-
gularly and work with the farm
women, They help with practical
ideas based on the kitchen and farm
equipment at hand,

In addition, the visitors were im-
pressed by the semi-prepared food
available. One woman reported that
she wanted to serve canned vege-
tables and fruit because of the
amount of time saved, but her Ger-
man husband complained the pro-
cessed food was deficient in fresh
food elements, Because the visitors
had seen great canning plants and
understood the processing of food
they were able to discount the Ger-
man belief that canned foods lack
essential vitamins,

HEN THE AUDIENCE com-

plained that it was impossible
for German women to have such
equipment and thus operate their
homes more efficiently, visitors
to the United States cited community
canning enterprises and community
deep-freeze lockers which could be
established in the German villages
and towns through cooperation,

But there was another factor Ger-
man women noted in the United
States which went beyond mere mo-
dern equipment in freeing housewives
from the drudgery of the home, This
was the attitude of American men
toward the dignity of women, Be-
ginning in the kindergarten and in
the home, German women reported,
little boys were taught to keep their
rooms clean, help wash and dry dishes
and in general treat their mothers
with tenderness and respect.

In kindergarten, they learned how
to operate equipment around a home,
what constitutes a good diet and even

DECEMBER 1949

Eight-year-old Johann Leitner, polio victim, was reported in satisfactory
condition Nov. 9 by doctors at the Munich Children's Hospital after he had
been a week in an iron lung, one of six donated by CRALOG. The other five

are in Berlin, Bremen, Frankfurt, Heidelberg and Wuerzburg.

(PRB, OLCB photo)

to cook a good meal "so that when
we're away at Boy Scout camp we'll
know how.”

This, the speakers suggested, pro-
duced men who like a comradely re-
lationship with their wives and who
wish to free them from monotonous
work, In contrast to the German hus-
band who buys first the equipment
which he thinks he needs, these Ger-
man women found that the American
man takes pride in making his wife's
work as efficient and easy as possible.

In the home itself, several of the
German visitors reported, American
husbands did not look down upon
home chores and helped their wives
with housework—a report which de-
lighted and amazed the audience of
women. One listener burst out, "I
think we should educate our hus-
bands to do the same,” and the rest
of the women clapped their approval.

S GERMAN WOMEN learn of
ways in which they can live
freer, more useful lives, one of the
speakers pointed out that they will
wish to take part more in the opera-
tion of their government to see that
these ways become realities.
Beginning through the homemaking
administration in each state they can
work for their goals which gradually

15

will branch out into all phases of com-
munity life. This can be achieved, she
suggested, when German women seek
and find a synthesis between tradition
and progress in homemaking, --END

ADAC May Get Carnets

The Bipartite Control Office granted
permission to the German Automobile
Association (Allgemeiner Deutscher
Automobil-Club — ADAC) to apply
for membership in the Alliance Inter-
nationale de Tourisme, Geneva, Such
membership will establish the ADAC
as a recognized agency through which
automobile owners in western Ger-
many may obtain for their vehicles
“carnets de passage" to cross the
various frontiers with a minimum of
delay and administrative procedure,

The leading automobile clubs of
most western European countries are
authorized by their governments to
issue the carnet de passage, which is
recognized as an official customs
document for the temporary export
or import of motor vehicles, Allied
businessmen, tourists and occupation
personnel may also become members
of ADAC at a fee of DM 30 ($7.15) for
automobile owners and DM 20 ($4.75)
for motorcycle owners.

. INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Youth Forums Maturing

—— Young Bavarians Learning to

Speak Minds

By HANS LAMM

ERMAN YOUTH, traditionally silenced by the rigid

discipline of home and classroom, are learning how

to speak their minds on public affairs through forums
arranged primarily for young people.

Youth leaders attending a series of Youth Forums in

Northern Bavaria last spring and this fall forgot their in-
grained awe of officialdom and vo-

The forum series was initiated in Hof last March and
attended by youth leaders representing various organi-
zations including religious, political, labor and independent
groups. In April, another forum in Nuremberg attracted
more than 300 youth leaders from more than 40 different
Bavarian localities, This fall, the third forum in the series,

held in Nuremberg, included guests

ciferously demanded that elected
officials pay heed to their opinions.

Questions fired at officials ranged
from why was meat rationing un-
successful in Bavaria, and why are
ERP funds being used to build high-
ways, to what does the city council
do to aid artists and actors in distress?

Hans Lamm, a member of the
Board of Review, highest court
for Restitution law, who wrote
the accompanying article, has
been the American chairman of
the Nuremberg German-American
Youth Club since 1946.

from France, the United States and
other foreign countries, lending an
international flavor to the meeting.

The youth forums were designed to
introduce the town hall tradition into
the system of German education.
Sponsored and conducted by the Ger-
man-American Youth Club, the fo-

--- Page 20 ---
Left to right, clockwise, photos show Army truck transporting forum group;
Junch outdoors; informal discussion in full swing; girl poses thoughtful query
at a Nuremberg forum; summer camp; campfire session; an evening of
relaxation; washroom closeup; and an afternon hike.

(Photos by Bayer Bilderdienst & K. H. Mentzner)

rums receive financial support from various sources including a Nurem-
berg newspaper (Nuernberger Nachrichlen) and the German Youth
Activities (GYA) organization.

The cost of transportation to the forum cities is the only expense borne

by the young people themselves. However, reduced railroad fares for the
occasion substantially lessen even this expense.

Speakers at the forums are drawn from various fields, the maj
of them being German government officials, US occupation authorities
and German press representatives. American observers at the ‘forums
expres: amazement at the maturity and interest of the part
youth leaders and at their tolerance in accepting different viewpoints.

The program's success can be measured in the stimulation it has given
to numerous youth groups to arrange local forums in their own cities.
Similar town meetings for young people are now springing up in large
numbers of North Bavarian citie +END

--- Page 21 ---
Public School Reform

— — Better Schools for Workers’ Children Needed

TRONGER SUPPORT by the Ger-

man trade unions of public school
reform, designed to provide better
schools for the children of workers,
was urged in a report prepared by
Irvin R, Kuenzli following a survey
of trade unions and public education
in western Germany as a special con-
sultant for the Manpower Division,
OMGUS. The report was made public
by the Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG.

Two reforms specifically recom-
mended by Mr. Kuenzli were extension
of the period of basic schooling from
four years to six and improvement
of the quality of teaching in the ele-
mentary schools.

In contrast to the labor movement
in the United States which has tradi-
tionally carried on a battle for better
schools, the German trade unions,
even before their suppression by the
Nazis, never looked upon support of
public schools as an inherent part of
their program, the report stated.

ODAY,. THE report continued,

there is evidence that the new
German labor movement is awakening
to the fact that a free public school
system, controlled largely by the
people of the community, is essential
to a democratic government, and
many labor leaders in Germany are
now thinking and talking along these
lines.

“Tf this thinking is crystallized into
action,” the report said, “the public
schools of Germany will have found a
powerful new ally which should
render valuable assistance in bringing
democracy to the schools of Ger-
many.”

“There is evidence of a widespread
movement to prevent the implemen-
tation of the school reform program
and to establish the schools on the
antiquated basis which existed in
1939,” the report said. “If these
efforts are successful, the future of
organized labor in Germany will
again be placed in jeopardy.... A
sound system of free education is

INFORMATION BULLETIN

essential to a free labor movement as
well as to a successful democratic
government.”

IHE REPORT deplored the status

of elementary school teachers in
Germany. It urged trade union support
for a single salary schedule for all
teachers based on years of training
and experience, and the elevation of
the leVel of training for elementary
school teachers to the same level as
that of the high school teachers.

Mr, Kuenzli pointed out that Ger-
man teachers have been isolated from
the teachers of the rest of the world
for more than a decade and recom-
mended that they be represented in
international educational meetings to
put them in touch with the progress
in educational methods during the
period of their isolation.

Mr. Kuenzli has served for 13 years
as national executive secretary of the
American Federation of Teachers and
prior to that he was a teacher, prin-
cipal and superintendent in several
school systems in Ohio.

N A FOREWORD to the report,

Harvey W. Brown, director of the

Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG,
pointed out that Mr, Kuenzli has
attempted in his report to indicate

why trade unions in Germany should
redouble their efforts to strengthen
and improve free and public education
based on and administered in accord-
ance with democratic principles.

“It is my firm belief,” he said, “that
the German trade unions will meet
this challenge despite the many great
and pressing tasks which confront
them today.” +END

Customs Tightens Control Measures

The US Customs Group has initiated
several measures to tighten enforce-
ment controls in the US-occupied
area.

Strict controls on the import of
commodities in excess of reasonable
amounts for personal use by members
of the occupation forces were im-
posed by the European Command.
Certain items which are listed as
scarce within the German economy
may be imported only in restricted
amounts.

In addition, a renewed drive was
instituted to prevent the import of
such forbidden items as cigarettes
and spirits. Monitoring of transit
shipments through Germany by the
Intelligence Branch and the Central
Clearing Center resulted in the con-
fiscation of a number of illegal ship-
ments which involved millions of
cigarettes and prohibited war materials.

The interim procedure for licensing
diplomatic imports was approved.
Under this procedure diplomatic mis-
sions and consulates were permitted
to import duty free all items needed

18

for their subsistence requirements.
The necessary license was to be
issued by the US Customs Group
only after the Office of the Political
Adviser approved the import request.
Representatives of some 30 nations
were affected.

Similarly, an interim procedure for
exports by the International Refugee
Organization (IRO) and its affiliates
was approved. After appropriate cer-
tification, the US Customs Group was
to permit the export of goods which
have been properly acquired by the
IRO and its affiliates in Germany.—
from US Military Governor's Monthly
Report No. 49.

Control Points Speeded Up

The German Central Customs Office
at Bad Homburg, Hesse, has been
given authority to issue to inter-.
national carriers serving Germany
blocks of currency control books for
presentation to passengers prior to
arrival at customs control points. This
step will expedite the clearance of
customs by incoming travelers.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 22 ---
Report to The People

—— Series of Monthly Broadcasts over AFN

IHE AMERICAN Forces Network

presented on Wednesday even-
ing, Nov. 2, a half-hour program on
the phase-out of the US Office of
Military Government. However, Mili-
tary Government did not pass quietly
from the scene leaving no successor.
That successor was HICOG, popular
abbreviation for “The Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany.”
Back as far as June of this year, pro-
vision was being made for the new
phase of occupation in Germany, On
June 6, an executive order went out
from the White House. The first
paragraphs read, in part:

“Executive Order establishing the
position of US High Commissioner for
Germany. By virtue of the authority
vested in me by the Constitution and
the statutes, and as President of the
United States and Commander-in-
Chief of the Armed Forces of the
United States, it is ordered as follows:

“1, There is hereby established the
position of US High Commissioner for
Germany, which position shall be that
of Chief of Mission, Class 1, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the For-
eign Service Act of 1946. f

“2, The US High Commissioner for
Germany shall be the supreme US
authority in Germany, The High
Commissioner shall have the author-
ity under the immediate supervision
of the Secretary of State, subject,
however, to consultation with and
ultimate directive by the President,
to exercise all of the governmental
functions of the US in Germany other
than the command of troops, includ-
ing representation of the US on the
Allied High Commission for Germany
when established, and on the exercise
of appropriate functions of a chief of
mission within the meaning of the
Foreign Service Act of 1946.”

MMEDIATELY THEREAFTER the
President announced his appoint-
ment for the newly-created post of
High Commissioner. He was ener-
getic, 54-year-old John J. McCloy,
eminent lawyer and former president

DECEMBER 1949

of the World Bank. He was remem-
bered as the investigator of the famous
“Black Tom” sabotage case during
World War I, and as assistant secre-
tary of war during World War Il,
when he had supervised the planning
of the original Military Government
organization for Germany.

Mr, McCloy arrived in Germany in
July, and began a whirlwind tour of
the US Zone and Berlin to familiarize
himself more completely with current
problems and activities. One such
activity was even then in progress,
as the German political parties were
in full swing in their campaigns to
capture the people's vote in the
elections scheduled for August 15.

With this auspicious background,
the framework of the HICOG organi-
zation began to take shape rapidly.
The overall plan called for a cabinet
of the chiefs of the 10 major operating
agencies of the headquarters, These
included the offices dealing with eco-
nomic affairs, political affairs, mili-
tary security, labor, intelligence,
public affairs and administration, as
well as a general counsel's office, a
secretariat and a field division.

At the same time, reorganization
began in the state Military Govern-
ment offices, now to be known as the
Offices of the US Land Commission-
ers, “Land” here being used in the
German sense of “state,” rather than
in the American meaning of terri-
tory. The Military Government Liai-

This summary is taken from
the initial program in a new
series of monthly broadcasts
entitled “A Report to the Peo-
ple,” presented by the Ameri-
can Forces Network in coopera-
tion with the Office of the High
Commissioner for Germany, be-
ginning Nov. 11. The programs
are designed as an official report
on HICOG operations to enable
US personnel in Germany to
keep abreast of the history of
the Occupation as it is being
written.

19

son and Security Officers were to be
retitled “US Resident Officers.”

In the middle of August of this
year an amazing 80 percent of the
German electorate went to the polls
and elected their representatives to
the lower house of parliament (Bun-
destag) and the state governments
named their delegates to the upper
house, or Bundesrat. The right wing
parties, led by the powerful Christian
Democratic Union, attained a slight
majority and in turn elected Dr, Theo-
dor Heuss, a Stuttgart professor, the
first Federal president. One week
later Konrad Adenauer, also CDU,
was chosen Federal Chancellor. The
new German state, the Bundesrepu-
blik, was in operation.

N SEPT. 21 the Petersburg Hotel

in Bonn was the scene of an im-
pressive ceremony. Dr. Adenauer,
representing his government, met
with the three High Commissioners
for Germany—Sir Brian Robertson,
British Zone; M. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French Zone; and Mr, John
J. McCloy, US Zone. Dr. Adenauer
announced the formation of his
government.

Later in the day the High Commis-
sioners signed a declaration of the
entry into force of the “Occupation
Statute,” and with the signing of
this document two important events
occurred simultaneously—one, the
Allied High Commission for Germany
officially took office and, two, the
people of Western Germany had at
long last taken a firm step in the
direction of democratic government.

With the signing of the activation
document, the High Commission
immediately went to work, passing
six laws in the first session. Included
in these initial documents were items
such as those pertaining to German
possession of military currency, wear-
ing of military insignia by Germans,
authorization of an official gazette,
and the establishment of the right
of the High Commission to quash
any resurgence of national socialism
or militarism in the fields of infor-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Mation or entertainment, those im-
portant twin molders of public
opinion,

ITH THIS ACTION out of the

way, the Commissioners plunged
into one of the hardest economic
nuts to crack in the German state
since currency reform. Earlier in the
month Great Britain had devaluated
the pound, and all over the world
governments were
their currencies to equalize them
with the new exchange levels, The
30-cent German mark was now too
high, and as a result German exports
were not being sought in world
markets due to their excessive price.

The High Commissioners and their
financial and economic experts
studied the problem from every
angle, discussed it in many meetings.
The German government was con-
sulted. Mr. McCloy personally dis-
cussed the French Government's
views with Foreign Minister Bidault
in meetings in Paris.

Although the German government's
recommendations were carefully con-
sidered, it was felt that they desired
an excessively low peg for the mark,
and the rate was finally established
as 23.8 cents, somewhat above their
original request. German coal prices,
a tremendous item because of the
large demands from other European
countries, were marked as a subject
for future discussion with a view to
readjustment by the first of the year,

The mark devaluation, incidentally,
provided a convenient guinea pig for
testing the efficiency of the Allied
High Commission. Here was a prob-
lem in which none of the three
powers, or the German government,
for that matter, had coinciding views.
What would be the result? Wangling,
disputes — possibly a complete falling
out? No, despite the divergence of
opinions, a tripartite agreement was
reached with a minimum of delay—
a refreshing change from the old
four-power control council days, with
its recalcitrant Soviet member, It
was therefore quite apparent here
that the Commissioners could and
would work with each other—to the
benefit of everyone.

The devaluation seemed to speed
up a peculiar phenomenon in the
East—the formation of a government
in the Soviet Zone. We say “pe-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

marking down —

culiar,” in that it was created without
benefit of elections or democratic
procedures. A prompt and positive
reaction was forthcoming from the
Allied High Commissioners. Said they:
“The so-called government of the
German democratic republic is the ar-
tificial creation of a ‘popular assembly’
which had no mandate for thig pur-
pose, The chamber which set itself
up without any consultation of the
popular will at once decided to post-
pone the elections for a year, The
intention of this postponement is
evidently to insure that the elections,
when they are held, shall follow the
pattern already set in other satellite
states. This. so-called government,
which is devoid of any legal basis
and has determined to evade an
appeal to the electorate, has no title
to represent Eastern Germany. It has
an even smaller claim to speak in
the name of Germany as a whole.”
The High Commissioners also
pledged to continue their efforts for
the unification of all Germany under
a democratic federal government
within the community of European
nations, and assured the people of
Western Berlin of continued political
and economic freedom.
S THE MONTH of October closed,
the report of the High Commis-
sion showed many concrete accom-

plishments, such as the approval of
the establishment of a German Tour-
ist Bureau in New York, extension
of German ‘authority over more
phases of foreign trade and pay-
ments, and an invitation for the Ger-
man state to send delegates to im-
portant tariff conferences. The list
is being added to even as these words
are being spoken.

Each high commissioner, in his
own zone, is implementing the desire
of his government to return Germany
to the family of democratic nations.
In our own zone we have seen the
lifting of travel restrictions for Ger-
mans, authorization for the estab-
lishment of a German Patent Office,
and dozens of other activities, on
down to more or less individual
efforts such as the promotion of town
meeting programs, public forums and
the like by officers in the field,

HICOG wants the citizens of the
new German state to feel its influ-
ence, not as an overlord, or driving
boss, but rather as a guide and
helper, for until such time as the
German public can stand on its own
democratic feet, there must be super-
vision of one sort or another. The
peoples of the world would tolerate
no return to the “thousand-year
Reich.” -+END

| Progress Replaces

Rep. Richard B. Wigglesworth, of
Massachusetts, said’ in Frankfurt
recently the economic progress made
in Germany during the past two
years, coupled with the establishment
of the federal government, “gave
good hope that a new Germany will
demonstrate its capacity and willing-
ness to contribute its full share
to a peaceful and prosperous world.”

Mr. Wigglesworth, member of the
House Appropriations Committee,
toured Europe to “obtain all possible
information with reference to adminis-
tration of ERP and related problems.”

“My last visit here was almost two
years ago when I traveled extensively
through ‘the country, including a
visit to the Ruhr where there was
opportunity to talk with labor leaders,
with workers in the mines and in the
factories, and with their families

20

Chaos, Shortages

living in the plant housing units,”
Mr. Wigglesworth said.

“No one who saw _ conditions
prevailing at that time, including the
lack of food, clothing and industrial
production, and the chaos in the
field of banking and currency, can
fail to be impressed by the very great
progress made in the past two years.

“That progress is reflected in
industrial and agricultural production
now approaching prewar figures and
about 75 percent in each case of the
goals which have been set for 1952.

“It is reflected in an increase in
exports which, though still only
30 percent of prewar, amount to well
over 200 percent of exports a year
ago, It is reflected in a stable cur-
rency and in other ways contributing
to the improved standards of living
and general welfare of the people.”

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 24 ---
HICOG’s Objective

—— Democratic Processes through Practice

Statement

By MAJOR GENERAL GEORGES P. HAYS

T GIVES ME great pleasure to parti-

cipate in this first broadcast of the
AFN monthly series on the activities
of the High Commission. These pro-
grams will fill a vital need and AFN
is to be commended for its public
service in producing them.

The operations of HICOG are highly
complex and diversified, They are
compounded of the activities of 1,400
individuals, ranging all the way from
the efforts of the US Resident Officers
to promote democratic action among
the average German citizens to the
activities of our top advisers at Bonn
who are carrying out highest policy
with our French and British allies.

There is a great geographical spread
as well as a broad functional range to
our organization, And it is going to
be difficult for all the men and women
in it to acquire even a general know-
ledge of all the developments and

policies in our diversified fields. Yet —

we will need that knowledge if we
are to achieve the tight teamwork
essential to carrying out our chal-
lenging task.

At the same time it is just as im-
portant that the men and women
of EUCOM and other occupation
agencies have at least a fundamental
knowledge of our purposes and pro-
jects. In many different ways we are
all driving at the same objectives—
to create a viable and democratic
slate out of this geographic keystone
to a peaceful Europe.

HIS PROGRAM will keep us all

apprised of at least the major
developments in HICOG from month
to month. It will therefore play a
vital part in helping to achieve a
unity of understanding and purpose
among all of us in HICOG as well as
attracting the interest and aid of many
in other American organizations in
Germany.

DECEMBER 1949

Deputy US High Commissioner

However, in facing our problems on
all levels of HICOG, we must never
forget that we are. backed by the
moral power of the United States—
a power stemming from the unprece-
dented example of a modern state
contributing vast economic, political
and cultural aid to a defeated foe.

By that power, we wield enormous
influence in Germany. Through it we
can encourage the Germans to act for
themselves, to participate in public
affairs and to recognize the mistakes
of the past and the reforms that
should be put into effect for the
future.

This does not mean we will be less
prompt to act under our reserved
powers of the Occupation Statute if
renewed totalitarian tendencies threat-
en democratic growth. But we must
allow the German people enough
freedom to develop the basis for a
strong democratic tradition of their
own.

They may not adopt all the demo-
cratic institutions and procedures that
we would like to see established. But
each time we must take direct action,
we remove from the German authori-
ties the opportunity to work out a
satisfactory solution for themselves. It

AFN to Air HICOG
Reports Monthly

This is the full text of the
radio speech delivered by Gen-
eral Hays at the close of “A
Report to The People" (see pages
19 and 20), as broadcast over
Station AFN on November 11.
The series of broadcasts reporting
HICOG progress in attaining
Occupation objectives is to be
continued on a monthly basis,
with these “Reports to The
People’ emanating from AFN
Frankfurt.

21

is more important that we supply the
guidance and advice and permit the
Germans to develop self-confidence
and familiarity with democratic pro-
cesses through practice.

URS IS A complex and often

frustrating task. But in the long
tun it is the surest way of creating a
genuine, indomitable tradition for
freedom and tolerance. If we cannot
develop that permanent foundation in
Germany, then all the finely-wrought
democratic structure is built on sand.

I am one who believes that this
tradition is growing in Germany to-
day, and that with our help and that
of our British and French allies
Western Germany will develop into a
peaceful and productive member of
the community of nations.

But we have stili a long way to go.
The task is far from completed. It will
continue to require the utmost endea-
vor of every one of us, if we are to
succeed, + END

Munich Launches
Rubble Cleanup Drive

Munich's one-day rubble-clearing
drive was described by Clarence M.
Bolds, acting US state commissioner
for Bavaria, as evidence that Bava-
rians have turned their attention from
a dismal past to a more objective
future,

More than 9,000 inhabitants of
Munich, aided by residents of sur-
rounding villages, volunteered their
time and efforts on Oct. 29 in a
gigantic all-day drive to remove ga-
ping rubble heaps that blight the city.
The cleanup program was sponsored
by German civic leaders with the co-
operation of American military and
civilian offices in Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
(Continued from page 6)
Berlin Christmas, 1945

to the scene where several hundred
troops were singing out their homesick-
ness in the simple songs of the season.
Barker mingled unobtrusively with the
men and got off several fairly steady
baritone choruses before he was re-
cognized. His discovery led to at least
100 handclasps and seasonal best
wishes and he stayed for one more
thunderous chorus which, surely,
could have been heard. back home in
any one of the 48 states.

O IT WAS Monday night, Christ-

mas Eve, 1945.

Work was finished late that night
and I left the printshop definitely in
need of a long walk in the not-too-
cold but crisp evening,

It was a comfortable feeling walking
down deserted streets ...something
like the financial district of New York
around two in the morning on Sunday
after a Staten Island ferry ride. But
this was different. People had lived in
what now were rubbled piles of
badly-made brick and tile. Out of the
heaps here and there a twisted girder
stuck out an arm like a rigid repro-
duction of a modern ballet movement.

Somewhere on what I now believe
was near Barbarossa Strasse I stopped
to look over the acres of absolutely
uninhabitable piled ruins and stark
walls not too clear in the silence of
a neighborhood that was no longer
a place where youngsters played and
folks wheeled baby carriages.

These were empty neighborhoods,
I could have wagered my highly in-
adequate weekly cigarette ration that
no living thing had been here... ever,

Then I saw the youngster climbing
carefully up into the shadows of a
half-wall silhouette that challenged
the almost full moon.

“Hey!” I called.

HE BOY STOPPED and turned

around. He paused and then came
down the irregular slope of rubble
and bridc and oddly twisted metal.
He paused this time halfway down
the heap, still about 20 feet away and
looked at me quite blandly. For a
moment there were many things fresh
in my mind about the current season
and where youngsters should be on
Christmas Eve,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“It's almost midnight," I said, “and
time a young man like you should
be at home on Christmas Eve.”

“The people who make rules like
that," the youngster said, “are the
same people who have destroyed
Christmas Eve all over the world.”

There was something in the lighting
of the scene and something in the
boy's manner that made it impossible
for me to ask a natural question: Did
he speak English? His voice was
clear. I certainly spoke no German
other than that necessary to get
another piece of butter at the mess
hall. Yet I understood every word he
said and he apparently was having
no difficulty with English.

“What's your name,” I asked, “and
how old are you and what are you
doing here and where’s your home?”

The boy chuckled and adjusted his
stance and for a moment I thought he
had been absorbed by shadows.

“My name is Gerd,” he said. “I'm
10 years old and I'm just walking
around like you are... thinking...
and my home is near.”

GAIN THAT peculiar feeling that
the language we were speaking
was not English, but I knew no Ger-
man and Gerd was a German name...
yet we understood each other per-
fectly. “At the age of 10," I said, “you
must have plenty to think about...
in this city... where there hasn't been
a real Christmas in such a long time.”
“Believe me,” he said, “there are
times when I think it isn’t worth it...
but then there are times when I feel
that the 10-year-old kids in lots of
countries are possibly thinking the
same sort of things I think about.”
“That would be normal,” I said.
“Possibly,” the youngster said.
“But don't you think you should be
home on Christmas Eve?" I asked.
“Home?” Gerd asked.
“Yes, home,'’ I said because I was
personally convinced.

ERD SCRAMBLED up the rubble
heap and seemed to be: looking
around from that vantage point.
“Home for youngsters like myself in
a postwar world," he said “isn't that
simple... either for me or the kids in
India or Malaya or the Balkans or
wherever the war has left an imprint.”
“Remember, what we do during this
short season,” he said, “has a lot to

22

do with the shape of our own personal
futures as well as the relationships
possible between peoples of all kinds
...cneeds, races, nations and so on.”

This was too much for me. “Gerd,”
I asked, ‘‘where did you pick up all
this sort of thing about...er, rela-
tionships, and so on?”

“Aut Wiedersehen," he said over his
shoulder as he started to move back
slowly up over rubble ‘heaps into the
shadows where skeletonized walls
etched out dark areas blotting out the
moon. “Auf Wiedersehen," he said
again, “and Merry Christmas...”

“Merry Christmas,” I called up to
him, “Merry Christmas!”

IHEN HE WAS gone and I thought

if I got home soon I could heat

up some water and have some Nescafe
with crackers and cheese.

Suddenly from partly behind me a
woman's voice said in German: “Ex-
cuse me, please .. .” and I turned and
taw a small, stooped old woman
whose eyes glistened wide and
shimmery in the shadows. Still in Ger-
man she said: My grandson Gerd..."

This was 1945 and too early for my
German. “Nix firshtay," I said politely.

“Ach so," she said and I thought
she smiled, then in English: “My
English is Schule English—but my
grandson Gerd...”

I reassured her. “He's fine, he's fine!
He may be out a bit late tonight, but
he’s a fine kid . . . very intelligent...
good sense of humor—please, don't
worry about him!"

HE GLISTENING shimmer in her
eyes stopped, She didnct move.
She was part of the shadows and the

half light.
“Please ... please don’t joke with
me... bitte... bitte, keine Scherze

... keine Scherze.. .”

She took a step toward me and I
could see the plea in the aged face.

“Please,” she said, “perhaps you
are being kind... but please, no
jokes ... Gerd, little Gerd .. . look,
for three Christmas Eves I have been
coming here, to this very spot... this
very spot where little Gerd, poor
little 10-year-old Gerd, was buried
deep beneath this big building after
an air raid... it is my one tie with
him ... after these years ... please,
make no jokes!” -++END

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 26 ---
Germany Today

— —Is Making a Determined Effort

Interview

By US HIGH COMMISSIONER JOHN J. McCLOY

R. McCLOY, you have been in

Germany for several months
and I wonder if you can give us some
of your impressions—just what sort
of a country do you find West Ger-
many to be?

I find it a country which is arising
out of a period of heavy damage,
both economic and spiritual, damages,
resulting from the abuses of power
and the consequences of war. It is
also a country which, in my judgment,
is making a determined effort to
become a contributing and peaceful
factor in the world community.

It is still beset by conflicting in-
terests and confused thinking, but I
believe through it all, the aim of the
German people and the Western Gov-
ernment is sincerely to seek a fair
solution of Germany's problems in
the interest, not only of the German
people, but in the interests of the
European community as a whole.

Will the German people be able to
feed themselves?

Germany, and particularly Western
Germany, has never been able to feed
itself. By that I mean grow all the
food that the people consume, Since
the war, this situation has been
greatly aggravated by the enormous
increase in the West German popu-
lation. The population has increased
by approximately one-fifth and the
prewar agricultural level has not yet
been reached.

I should say that the outlook is
that Germany will never be self-
sufficient in food; that large food
imports will always be necessary.
This means that Germany will have
to export enough to pay for her food
imports by the time Marshall Plan
aid ends in 1952,

That is one aspect of the problem.
The other is to increase German
agricultural output to the greatest
extent possible so that this great gap

DECEMBER 1949

(Reprinted from US News and World Report)

can be closed or at least become

manageable,
Do you think ultimately West
Germany will be able to export

enough to pay for its necessary food
imports?

I think that it will, The Germans
are industrious people. They have in
times past proven that they can make
many goods that others want. The
extent to which they will be able to
achieve a sufficient export level will
depend to a large extent upon the
freedom with which German goods
are received in outside markets.

What are the Germans making now
in the way of chemicals, machine
tools and other things that were im-
portant before the war?

The chief chemicals now produced
are potash, which is used for fer-
tilizers, and certain others of the basic
chemicals—sulphuric acid, caustic
soda, calcium carbide. In prewar
years, Germany, of course, had very
large sales of dyestuffs and pharma-
ceuticals, Dyestuffs, although con-
siderable at present, are not up to
prewar rates of production and the
pharmaceutical output is greatly
diminished, mainly because markets
have been lost to Germany because
of the war.

Generally speaking, however, all

US High Commissioner McCloy
granted this interview to Robert
Kleiman, central European editor
of US News and World Report,
a weekly journal published in
Washington, D.C. World copy-
right is reserved by US News
and World Report, Inc. Special
permission given for republication
in the Information Bulletin, Full
quotation is authorized provided
credit is given the original
publication. Mr. Kleiman’s ques-
tions are in italics.

23

German production is approaching
prewar levels, For example, chemical
production for August was 87 percent
of the 1936 level, and for the corres-
ponding month of last year, was
68 percent. The total of all industries
for August was 91 percent of the 1936
level, The increase in German pro-
duction has been spectacular during
the last year, particularly since the
monetary reform, but we must not
lose sight of the fact that the in-
crease was from a very low level.

Where as production was up to, let
us estimate, 91 percent of the 1936
level in Germany, other countries,
competitors of Germany and neighbors
of Germany, have increased their
production in many cases far above
the 1936 level. Sweden, Norway, Den-
mark, United Kingdom, France, Nether-
lands, Belgium, are all far above the
prewar levels and I think it may be
pointed out that a number of these
countries that I have just mentioned,
with all of the greatly increased
production, are still in economic
trouble,

The figures I have referred to are
for production, When we compare the
export figures, the difference between
the German economy and the neigh-
boring economies is even more mark-
ed, It is difficult to estimate just
what exports from Western Germany
are now in relation to what they
were prewar, A number of resump-
tions have to be made in making
such an estimate, but what I feel are
fairly reliable estimates indicate that
Germany—Western Germany—is only
up to, say, 35 percent of her prewar
exports, Britain is now at something
over 150 percent and still finds the
going heavy.

I refer to this because I have heard
that there is a good bit of concern
expressed over the fear that German
industry was coming along too fast.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
I do not believe it has revived far
enough for its own good or for the
good of Western Europe.

You spoke earlier about German
goods being received in world mar-
kets. Could you expand a little on
that? Do you think the Germans will
provide serious competition for other
countries? .

German goods will certainly be in
competition with the goods of other
countries. The seriousness of the
competition will depend, as it does
with other countries, upon the quality
of the goods, the price, sales promo-
tion methods and certain other
supplementary factors. The recent
revaluation of the mark, even though
the mark is still not freely con-
vertible, should make Germany's
products available to foreign pur-
chasers at more attractive prices.

No one, in my judgment, could or
should prevent a German exporter
from offering his goods at a lower
price than his foreign competition,
provided he deals fairly and makes
his cost and a reasonable profit. We
must on the other hand be on guard
against the reintroduction of sub-
sidies, dumping and discriminatory
trade practices which placed Ger-
many in an unwholesome, domina-
ting position in European trade and,
indeed, in world trade, during the
period of the preparation for war.

Do such practices exist now?

At the present time, Germany is
selling her coal to domestic con-
sumers at a considerably lower price
than she is selling it aroad even
though her export price is lower
than the world price. The devalua-
tion of the mark in conjunction with
the devaluation of other currencies
tended to increase this differential,

As this practice tended to create
a considerable advantage to the
domestic consumers of German coal,
particularly the steel people, as
against foreign steel manufacturers,
this entire subject was made the
object of a review by the (High) Com-
mission and it is contemplated that
action will be taken to make ne-
cessary adjustments to eliminate un-
fair advantages, particularly in coal
prices, by the first of the year. Certain
interim action has already been taken
by the new German Government.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The willingness of the new German
Government to recognize this situa-
tion and to be prepared to make
adjustments is, to my mind, a most
hopeful element. It is an expression
of the German attitude toward the
liberalization of European trade and
toward her willingness to cooperate
in steps leading to that end.

Will the spread between Germany's
domestic coal prices and export
prices for coal be eliminated by the
first of the year?

I do not know that the entire
spread will be eliminated.. Some
spread may be entirely justifiable.
The objective will be to eliminate
any unnatural or unfair spread.

Are the Germans going to trade
with Russia and Eastern Europe on
a large scale?

I don't know how large this scale
will be. Thus far, the scale has not
been large, but again, in my judg-
ment, I believe that there should be
and really must be an active trade
between the West und the East. I
wish to point out that at the present
time Germany—Western Germany
—does have trade agreements with
a number of the countries to the
east.

How close a check do the Allies
plan to keep on this sort of thing and
for how long?

The checks and controls that we
are now exerting relate to security.
It is sometimes difficult to draw the
line between supplies which can
only be used for peaceful purposes
and those which tend to build up a
war threat. An attempt has been
made to strike a balance between
the two. In the category of war
goods, or goods particularly useful
for war or its preparation, we will
continue to exercise controls over
shipments.

Will some further action be taken
by the Allies to liberalize the con-
trols or are they satisfactory now in
preventing war potential shipments
and permitting other types of trade?

I think the list is always subject
to review. It is a very technical de-
termination which establishes such a
list today. We have so many com-
plaints both ways: namely, that the
list is too large, on the one hand,
or too small, on the other. Some of

24

the items on the list are being
criticized, but generally speaking, I
should say that we do not foresee
any major change for the time being.

What do you find since you have
arrived in Europe about the feeling
between the Germans and the French?

I have naturally been in contact
mainly with the French and German
leaders. I have not had wide oppor-
tunity to test public opinion as a
whole, but I can say from recent
public statements, as well as state-
ments made to me personally by
responsible French and German
leaders, that I am convinced there
is a sincere desire on the part of
both groups of these leaders to
cooperate in an effort to bring about
a solid ‘understanding between France
and Germany. The recent statement
of Chancellor Adenauer, I thought,
was particularly encouraging on this

point.
What did he say?
The Chancellor said that “the

foundation stone of Europe's unity
must be friendship between Germany
and France. A wealthy Germany and
a flourishing France are the best
guarantees for a French, German and
European peace.”

“France and Germany,” he said,
“need each other. There have been
serious difficulties, but there is a
historical necessity for letting the
past be the past.”

If this objective is to be realized,
it will be the duty of Germans to
take all means within their power
to see that the French are satisfied
that they need no longer fear any
menace to their security from across
the Rhine.

What is the viewpoint of the French
toward Germany's recovery and re-
turn to self-government?

I cannot speak for the French, but
my feeling is that the French will
look with favor upon Germany's re-
covery and return to self-government
provided they can be assured that
their security is not threatened by a
revival of a German aggressive
spirit.

In this connection there has re-
cently been some discussion of call-
ing a halt to the dismantling of Ger-

many's war industry and making
changes in the level of industrial
, DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 28 ---
capacity permitted to Germany. Could
you discuss that a bit?

The dismantling program is a pro-
duct of the reparations agreements
and the security measures which
were taken by the Allied govern-
ments after the close of the war.
The program has been reviewed and
certain of the agreements and
adjustments which were made after
the war have been modified. There
still remain a number of plants
scheduled for dismantling connected
both with the security and the re-
parations programs.

The program is one which has
been reached upon the basis of
government agreements. Any modi-
fication of the dismantling program
requires a reconsideration of the re-
paration agreements, the security
measures and the so-called “level
of industry" agreements. Here again
the subject is a very technical one.

For my own part, and I wish to
emphasize that I am speaking purely
from a personal point of view, I
would hope that in some way this
entire dismantling problem could,
with the help of the Germans, be re-
solved in such a way as to bring
about a stronger European economic
unity.

How might that be done?

More countries are involved in
this question than merely the oc-
cupying powers, and their rights and
interests as well as those of the oc-
cupying powers must be considered.
Firm and complete adherence to the
tights and obligations of the Ruhr
Authority may be one evidence—on
the part of Germany—of the coopera-
tion that I am speaking about.

There are other important steps
that might be taken, but it is not
only preferable, it is I should say
essential that they should be pro-
posed by the German Government.
If the Germans seek to avoid the
dismantling, which is the consequence
of former German aggression, it is
the Germans who should come for-
ward with serious proposals to
avoid that consequence.

On the security. question, do you
think that the Germans ever will be
permitted to have an army again?

It is quite clear that the policy
which the Allied High Commissioners

DECEMBER 1949

are directed to administer does not
permit the reconstitution of a German
military or paramilitary force. It is
the mission of the Commission to
see that Germany remains demili-
tarized and we have a Military
Security Board which is charged with
that particular responsibility.

In that case, how will the country
be policed and defended?

Naturally, there has to be a Ger-
man civil police system. Such German
police forces as there are must,
under Tripartite agreement, be so
decentralized that they cannot take
on the character of a paramilitary
force under the guise of a police
organization. Other precautions must
be taken to see that the methods of
a gestapo are not revived, but in
my judgment it is entirely com-
patible with the functioning of a
democratic state that it should
possess an efficient, well-distributed
police force.

And in terms of defense against
external aggression, how will Western
Germany be defended?

I think one has to answer that
question by pointing out that the
Allied armies are now in Germany
and are presumably prepared to
maintain the peace and security of
the areas they control. What will
constitute the ultimate security of
Germany after peace treaties are
consummated and other _ security
measures taken which justify the
withdrawal of all occupation troops,
can only be determined as of that
time.

Does the creation of a paramilitary
force in eastern Germany alter our
problem in this regard?

I think it is an element that we
have to take into account, but I am
sure we would be most reluctant to
set up a similar force in western
Germany as a counter to such a
move in the east.

Now that an East German state has
been created following the etablish-
ment of a West German state, what
do you think the chances are, soon
or eventually, of eastern and western
Germany being rejoined into one
country?

I doubt whether the creation of
the Eastern German state accelerates

25

that event. I feel that the manner in
which the Eastern German govern-
ment was hand-picked, the absence
of elections, and the general Com-
munist procedures under which it
was set up are so antagonistic to
the concepts of the West that I see
no chance of unity with this par-
ticular type of government.

The policy and influence of the
Western Powers and of the German
people as a whole should be con-
stantly toward the unity of the
entire German people on the basis
of free institutions, free speech, free
elections. That is the basis of unity;
it is the one for which the Allies
stand, and one which holds the best
and only hope for Germany. The
other is no more than the unity of
the bear hug.

The Russians have made a number
of statements indicating that they may
withdraw their occupation troops.
Some Germans have advanced the
thesis that a withdrawal of the Western
occupation troops, following Russian
withdrawal, would enable the East
and West German governments to
negotiate the unity of Germany. Do
you think this offers anything?

I do not think that we should
determine the withdrawal of the
Western occupation troops upon any
particular measures taken by the
Soviet troops unless we are con-
vinced ourselves that it is a wise
and appropriate thing to do.

I wish to emphasize here again
that this is a governmental question
rather than a Commission question,
but my view would be that the
maintenance of the Western occupy-
ing troops in Germany should be
determined by whether it is felt
their presence is contributing to the
achievement of the mission for which
they came.

In this connection, how long do you
think American troops will have to
temain in Germany?

They will certainly remain, in my
opinion, as long as the peace and
security of Europe require their
presence.

How are your personal relations
with the Russian officials you en-
counter?

Well, so far, they have been brief
but pleasant. They were more social

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
than political. However, I have gone
out of my way to make it clear to
the Soviet authorities that I am
available and eager to talk with
them on any occasion they wish.
Immediately on my arrival in Berlin,
I called upon General Chuikov to
pay my respects and meant it when
I said I was anxious to carry out
the spirit of the Paris negotiations.

I will be glad to receive him or
any other Russian official at any
time and would not hesitate to seek
contact with them myself whenever
the occasion seems either to require
it or make it desirable.

There has been some talk about the
rise of nationalism and the return of
Nazism in Germany. What do you
think about this?

I am glad you mentioned that. I
intended to touch on it earlier, It is
not easy to evaluate accurately the
German mind, even in normal times.
The German seems to me to be a
peculiar mixture of individualism
and subservience to authority. In
this period of Germany's emergence
from chaos, German opinions as to
the best course of action, politically
and economically, are bound to vary
greatly.

It is very difficult to distinguish
between honest patriotism and ir-
rational nationalism, but I think the
overwhelming majority of Germans
are tired of a philosophy of hate
and are pretty thoroughly cured of
any desire for another totalitarian
experiment—no matter by what name
you call. it.

I hear from time to time that former
Nazis are back in the saddle again,
or that euch and such a percentage
of employees here or there are former
Nazis. The fact that perhaps 30 percent
of Germany was Nazi, and that this
group has been tried before the Ger-
man courts, convicted and sentenced,
or exonerated, is sometimes forgotten.

It is ridiculous to say that you can
exclude all these people forever from
the economic, political and social life
of the community. Certain categories
certainly are to be excluded and others
watched, but the employment of the
former “follower” types is not synony-
mous with the rebirth of Nazism. My
point is that the Commission is charg-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ed with preservation of democracy
and will watch all trends and action
that might threaten this—from former
Nazis or other sources,

I myself believe that in so doing
you must give the Germans the feel-
ing that they are being trusted or
they will never trust themselves.
Moreover, as I have said on previous
occasions, we are in a period where
we must judge people as well by their
present attitude as by the attitudes
they assumed 10 or 15 years ago
unless their old attitudes were either
criminal or perverse.

There is always a tendency on the
part of some writers to generalize and
sensationalize a condition—particu-
larly a political condition.

We shall have and _ probably
continue to have statements to the
effect that great national efforts of one
sort or another are gigantic failures.
It has been said of the occupation of
Japan, It has been said of the occupa-
tion of Germany. It has been said of
the Marshall Plan. On several oc-
casions during the war it was said of
the conduct of the war though a suc-
cession of tangible victories have
made us all but forget some of these
analyses,

For myself I do not know whether
the occupation is a great success or
great failure or something in between.
I do know that I have had in the
midst of some disappointments some
very bright spots indeed in my ex-
perience in Germany thus far to
indicate that the average German is
thinking more about his responsibil-
ities as a citizen and of the meaning
of democracy than he has for the last
100 years,

The situation in Germany, as I said
at the beginning of this answer, is
extremely complex and extremely
difficult to assess. Let me give you
one example.~In Offenbach, a town
in Hesse, the other day a Jewish
doctor who had been in a concentra-
tion camp was kept from an important
hospital office by the buergermeister
(mayor) because, said the buerger-
meister, he could not trust a Jewish
doctor who had been subjected to
such brutalities to have a considerate
attitude toward German patients.

Only an aberration induced by an
innate stupidity or a Hitlerian in-

26

doctrination could have produced such
an attitude, but the response was
immediate. The buergermeister was
thrown out by the Germans them-
selves and the whole town was in an
uproar about it—without any stimu-
lation or intervention.

Only a new attitude could have
produced this reaction—to an event
no one would have dared to oppose a
very few years ago. Which is more
significant of Germany today, I do
not presume on the basis of my pres-
ent knowledge to say—but I do say
there is hope.

Does.the average German citizen
seem to be aware of how much help
the Germans are receiving from the
United States?

I doubt whether any of them really
know the full extent and significance
of the aid we give, but I doubt whe-
ther the citizens of any of the re-
cipient countries have quite that real-
ization. However, I do feel that there
is a very substantial realization on
the part of the individual German
citizen of the aid that he is receiving
from the United States.

Our surveys indicate this and I
also think that they indicate that if
anything a larger percentage of the
German citizens are aware of the
general benefits they are receiving
than is the case with some of the
countries whose economy is perhaps
further advanced than that of the
Germans. Incidentally, I suppose large-
ly because of the airlift, the surveys
from Berlin indicate a greater con-
sciousness there of American aid than
in any other area, certainly in Ger-
many, if not in Europe.

How much is Germany costing the
American taxpayer a year now?

In the last year, the total amount
of United States appropriated funds
for Western Germany was something
less than $1,000,000,000. This includes
ECA aid. For the present year, al-
though the appropriations and al-
locations have not been finally decided
upon, our best estimate is that the
combined total will be in the neigh-
borhood of $760,000,000.

How long will this expense to the
US continue?

The answer to this question rests
with the American people and the
Congress, -+-END

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 30 ---
Bavai

‘WO YEARS AGO, Bavaria, like

the rest of Germany was literally
dragging her feet, A virtually worth-
less currency gave little impetus to
the masses’ struggle for survival.
Despair and chaos were everywhere.
The political, economic and social
reconstruction of Bavaria was forced
to take a back seat to more pressing
needs. People were hungry. Housing
was in a deplorable state. The people
were shabbily dressed.

The Reichsmark then was worth
only 1/5th to 1/100th its face value.
Production lagged and goods were
hoarded because manufacturers and
shopkeepers were unwilling to sell
worthwhile goods for worthless money.
There was only one pair of shoes
for every four men, Many industries
were stymied from want of necessary
Taw materials, such as coal, and essen-
tial imports like cotton, wool and
hides,

The tendency to withhold available
goods was stepped up in the wake of
rumors of pending currency reform.

Newspaper headlines two years ago
mirrored the uncertainty of Bavarian
life. These were some of the typical
headlines:—"Fearful Munich—Serious
Food and Heating Materials Short-
ages;" “Farmers Deliver Only Half
Their Potato Crops;" “Indescribable
Refugee Misery; and “Bread and Fat
Rations Reduced.”

ITH THE ADVENT of currency
reform and the European Recov-
ery Program, life in Bavaria became
less grim. The new money could buy
life's necessities, Fresh hope and
courage came to a tired and dis-

DECEMBER 1949

ias Progress

— — Quest for Decent Way of Life

Review

By MURRAY D. VAN WAGONER

Retiring State Commissioner for Bavaria *

couraged people. Shop windows were
filled with almost forgotten wares.
The urge to make an honest living
was revived.

And as Bavarians ate better, dressed
better, were able to visit barbershops
more regularly, they had a chance to
turn their attention from a mere
struggle for individual survival to
probe into and seek to better their
community life, to give greater atten-
tion to civic affairs, to express opin-
ions and take action on school reform,
to look around for qualified men and

Germans Given Five
Musts to Remember

Your present form of govern-
ment requires from you certain
acknowledged responsibilities. In
fairness to yourselves and your
country you cannot bypass these.

You must be ever on the alert
against violation of your con-
stitutional rights.

You must maintain a lively in-
terest through the media of press,
radio and other means in what
your government is actually doing.

You must remember that you,
as voters, retain the basic foun-
dation of your government’s
power and that in the last ana-
lysis its very power to act is only
by your will.

Above all, you must labor con-
tinually in the vineyards to win
other converts to this most im-
portant cause.—from Mr. Van
Wagoner's farewell address over
Radio Munich to the Bavarian
people.

27

women to represent them in their
council halls.

In other words, these last two years
have seen a revival in free thinking
and democratic action in getting the
things Bavarians and Bavaria require
in their quest for a decent way of life.

I would like to review briefly the
task we set out to accomplish two
years ago.

N THE FALL of 1947, Bavaria's

economy had recovered only
slightly from the chaotic conditions
existent at the end of the war.
Internal trade was stagnant. All
branches of industry were in dire need
of additional labor. Average produc-
tion per worker was only about
40 percent of normal. Absenteeism
was as high as 30 percent. Food
supplies were critical—the normal
consumer receiving a ration of only
1,350 calories per day of low quality
food. Today, the picture has changed
somewhat.

Production estimates for last month
(September) are 99.2 percent of the
1936 index. We look forward to be-
coming the first state in Bizone to
reach 100 percent, Most normal
civilian and industrial needs now can
be supplied from present production
and imports. Export shipments have
tripled since 1947.

Grain production has increased 60
percent, potatoes 25 percent, milk
10 percent, and the hog population
68 percent. Land reform has been
stimulated. Democratization and self-
expression among farm people have

*%* See Personnel Notes on page 52,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
been promoted. A brighter economic
outlook.

But a still further increase in
industrial production and foreign trade
is necessary if we are to provide a
self-sustaining economy and_ fulfill
the needs of a growing population.
Further increases in agricultural pro-
duction also are imperative. We can
help accomplish this through continued
dissemination of information regarding
problems that now prevail and their
remedies, and through the develop-
ment of self-expression among the
people.

In our field operations, strong em-
phasis has been placed upon the
development of good _ citizenship
among the German people in general
and more responsible governing by
those in public office. The ground-
work has been laid for continued
healthy participation by the citizenry
in the affairs of government. The
various phases of the reorientation
program have been developed from

an almost negative report in 1947 to:

the point of reaching well over
500,000 Bavarians a month.

CONTINUED EFFORT, however,

still is required before we may say
that we have established principles
of democracy in Bavaria. Before we
can say that we have a sufficiently
alert and interested citizenry, before
we can say that civil servants and
public office holders have come to
appreciate their role as_ servants,
rather than master, of the people, we
will have to continue to. advise, to
persuade, to teach both by word and
example.

Bavaria, the birthplace and a center
of Nazism, was in a shambles in the
legal field at war's end. Almost
95 percent of personnel connected
with administration of justice wére
Nazi party members. Legislation had
to be overhauled. By 1947 efforts
toward rehabilitation had progressed
considerably. While legislation pre-
pared by the state legislature has
shown improvement in late drafts over
those originally submitted, indefinite-
ness in legislative enactments has
been a weakness of the German
legislative process,

Denial of due process of law, unlaw-
ful arrests of persons and unreason-
able searches and seizure of property

INFORMATION BULLETIN

occur frequently. From time to time
racial, political and religious dis-
criminations are brought to our
attention.

DUCATION AND Cultural Re-

lations (Division) has had many
challenging problems within the last
two years. Among the most important
of these has been an intensive pro-
gram to continue the denazification
and democratization of schools and to
promote school reform. In order to
achieve this latter, experimental cen-
ters have been established to try out
Bavarian educational reforms.

In addition, three education service
centers have been opened in Bavaria
to aim at the redirection of Bavarian
education. Other projects which have
done a great deal to help renovate
obsolete educational methods include
community education which takes up
almost every form of adult educational
activity, group activities for women,
adult evening schools and forums and
discussions designed primarily for
youth, including a school established
at Starnberg to train youth leaders.

In concluding this particular pro-
gtam, it is interesting to note that
several thousand Bavarians have been
sponsored for travel abroad during
the past two years and approximately
2,000 European and American specia-
lists were sponsored for entry into
Bavaria for cultural purposes.

N THE FIELD of information ser-

vices we have sought, and have
succeeded, in part, to bring home to
Bavarians the democratic advantages
of information media geared to the
needs of a people and nation. We
continue to carry out this program
relentlessly via the press, publications,
radio and film. We are encouraged by
the results today.

For example, since licensing con-
trols were dropped last August, about
125 new newspapers, plus sub-editions,
have appeared in Bavaria. However,
the democratically-minded editors and
publishers have established a solid
core of independent and democratic
news and views that so far has been
able to withstand the competition of
the fly-by-night newspapers that have
anything but the democratic Bavarians
at heart.

Civil Administration Branch's mani-
fold functions also were pursued with

28

vigor these last two years, The
denazification program in Bavaria has
been virtually completed. A positive
program of reorientation in govern-
ment was pushed. Political activity
was encouraged. Positive steps were
taken to insure truly democratic elec-
tions. The legislature's election law
of 1949 established for the first time
in Bavaria the principle of single con-
stituency representation and intro-
duced the majority system in selecting
these candidates.

Military Government worked close
with German public health officials in
a common offensive against disease.
Today the German death rate can be
compared favorably with rates in the
United States.

Here workable programs have been
devised in dealing with such problems
as public relief, youth, refugees, re-
turning prisoners of war, expellees.
Both positive and negative results
have been obtained,

N THE FIELD of labor, we have had

our difficulties. True, employment
is relatively high, but so too is un-
employment. However, with food
more abundant, consumer goods readi-
ly available, and a sound currency,
the situation presents no alarming
aspects for the foreseeable future.
Trade union membership has grown
from 630,000 in 1947 to more than
800,000 today.

At the same time, employer groups
have become better organized and
more active. That job is not finished.
And it will not be finished until the
task we set out to accomplish at war's
end has been completed, until the
grim specters of unemployment, home-
less people, bulging shops and little
money to buy have disappeared.

True, we have seen a moral, poli-
tical and economic reawakening. And
Bavarian newspapers reflect progress
that has been made with such head
lines as “Highest Postwar Butter Pro-
duction; “Mushroom Growth of New
Apartments,” and “Old-fashioned
Octoberfest, Record Crowds, 14 Per-
cent Beer.“ However, some headlines
still reflect trying times. A recent one
read, “Overflowing shopwindows—
Little Money."

Bavarians have proven astute stu-
dents in fashioning their endeavors

(Continued on page 31)

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 32 ---
Hesse’s Progress

— — Newest State Is Four Years Old

AP ee PERMIT one to
pause and to reflect upon the
efforts made by men and women to
bring about the events now comme-
morated and, as history is the only
guide for the shaping of the future,
to evaluate that which has been
done and that which has transpired
since the date of the event. Then,
when we have paid our tribute to
the past and evaluated the progress
since made, we can rededicate our-
selves to the task that lies ahead.

The events leading up to the
creation of the government of the
state of Hesse were not mere acci-
dents. Each step had been well
planned and executed by men expe-
rienced in their tasks and imbued
with the spirit of bringing to war-
torn Germany the blessings of a free
and democratic way of life.

The events which took place on
Oct. 16, 1945, were not the result of
an accident or a series of accidents.
They were brought about by the
officers and men of the Military
Government detachment under my
command. We were all the products
of the system of training given to
us in preparation for the carrying
out of the plans of the United States
for the occupation of Germany.

It was the organization under my
command, with a background of ex-
perience in civil affairs in France
and Military Government in the
French Zone, that created the first
postwar regional government for
Germany. This first civil govern-

State Commissioner James R. Newman.

By DR. JAMES R. NEWMAN

Land Commissioner for Hesse

ment, inaugurated at Neustadt in
the Palatinate on May 18, 1945, com-
prised the Saar, Trier, Koblenz,
Hesse west of the Rhine and the
Palatinate.

N JULY 10 of the same year, we

turned this first civil govern-
ment over to the French occupation
authorities. The French retained in
office the German officials that we
had selected. This was no accident,
for these officials had been chosen
only after a careful screening of
more than 200 candidates for the
various governmental positions.

Following the turnover to the
French, on July 16, 1945, we moved
from Neustadt across the Rhine into
Wiesbaden, where, just one month
later, we installed the first president
of the Administrative District (Re-
gierungsbezirk) of Wiesbaden.

Development upon development
brought us to that memorable day
in October 1945 when the govern-
ment for the state then known as
Greater Hesse was established and
the minister president and his
cabinet were installed in office. A
little more than a year later, the
people of Hesse, in a free and
popular election, ratified a constitution
and under its provisions chose their
own governmental representatives.

OUR YEARS have passed since

those first hectic days when Milit-
ary Government commenced the task of
bringing order out of the chaos creat-
ed by and immediately following a
total war. Four years have passed
since Military Government worked
day and night to
screen potential candi-
dates for appointive
offices. During those
years we, being so
close to the job, have
hardly paused to eva-
luate results.

29

Let us then look back for a few
moments in an effort to see just
how far the German people have
gone in the intervening time, down
the highway of reconstruction, a
journey during which their guide
was Military Government,

When we first entered Germany,
the country was in a _ shambles.
Roads were blocked with the ruins
and rubble of war. Sanitation was
nil, and an epidemic was about to
tun rampant, Hunger was omnipres-
ent, and the people were in a state
of shock. Fear was everywhere, and
only a few optimists were willing
to look to anything but a future of
privation and subjugation.

At random, I have picked a few
headlines typical of the period from
a collection of newspaper clippings
of those early days:

“All Civilian Autos Pooled in
Wiesbaden District for Use Only on
Essential Trips.”

“Ring of Nazis Broken Up in
Wiesbaden.”

“Border Police Unit Formed to
Prevent Illegal Crossings.”

“Guards to Halt Food Seekers at
Zone's Edge.”

“Housing Shortage Critical.”

“Fuel, Food Get Prior Attention,
Newman Says."

“German Towns’
Held Shocking.”

“Newman Asks Hesse to Grow
Own Food."

“Next Four Months Termed Ex-
tremely Critical for Hesse."

“US Food Aid on Way.”

Those were the headlines of the
day. They truthfully reflect the tenor
of the times. Compare them with
your news of today, and you can

Economic Ruin

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 33 ---
judge for yourselves the progress
that has been made.

UR TASK in Germany today is

basically the same as it was
when we first came into this coun-
try. The manner of performing that
task has changed. The degree of
expressing authority has changed.
The basic mission, however, remains
the same and is inextricably woven
into the whole pattern of what the
Government of the United States is
doing for all of western Europe.

The so-called German problem
cannot be separated from the broad-
er problem of assuring security
and peace for the free nations of the
world. No attempt at solving the
problems of Germany can be deemed
adequate unless the solution recog-
nizes the relationship of Germany ‘to
the other countries of free western
Europe.

The desire to aid all the free
people of Europe has been mani-
fested many times, and our efforts
to help them help themselves toward
reconstruction and recovery have
been made most clear. Apparently
then, it is the ultimate objective of
the United States that the German
people be integrated into a new
common unity of the free people of
Europe, and to share, in due course,
as equals in the security and the
obligations of this new structure.

It has been our aim to teach and
encourage that way of life called
democracy, not by decree or by
order, but by example. We have
made great strides in that direction.
Let mecite one outstanding example.

URING THE EARLY part of the

year, the state legislature
brought into existence a new school
system so that all children in Hesse
will hereafter be given equal oppor-
tunity to obtain an education. Mili-
tary Government could have decreed
this type of legislation early in the
occupation. Instead, we chose to in-
culcate the Hessian educators, as
well as the Hessian people, with a
feeling for necessary reform, a fel-
ing which within themselves would
create a desire to give the Hessian
children a greater equality of edu-
cational opportunity.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Order by Eisenhower
Created Hesse

The reconstruction of Hesse,
the new German state, was de-
scribed by Dr. James R. Newman,
US state commissioner for Hesse,
in a speech over Radio Frankfurt
on the occasion of its fourth
anniversary.

On Oct. 16, 1945, Dr. Newman,
then a US Army colonel, swore
in the first government for the
state created by order of Gen-
eral Eisenhower. The government
chosen by Dr. Newman was
selected from several hundred
candidates, Headed by Dr. Karl
A. Geiler of Heidelberg Uni-
versity, who belonged to no
Political party, it was a coalition
in which the four licensed polit-
ical parties were represented.

After the first statewide elec-
tions in 1946, which saw the SPD
gain a narrow victory over the
CDU, the cabinet was changed
slightly. SPD leader Christian
Stock became minister-president,
but his SPD-CDU coalition cabinet
was essentially the same cabinet
picked by Dr. Newman.

In his talk Oct. 16, Dr. New-
man reviewed conditions as they
were four years ago and the
progress made since then.

I am happy to say that the
democratically thinking educators of
Hesse were the first in Germany to
Trecommend this schoo] reform — an-
other first for Hesse on its road to
progress in freedom and democracy.

When I speak of democracy, I do
not mean Swiss democracy, British
democracy, Danish democracy, or
American democracy. I mean that
broad doctrine, that philosophy of
social and political thinking, what-
ever its form, that recognizes the
dignity of man, his inherent rights
as such and the principle of a
“government of the people, by the
people, and for the people.”

EMOCRACY is not
neither is it a formula. I would
rather consider it as a way of life,
wherein those living it believe that

30

a creed; .

extraordinary accomplishments can
come from ordinary individuals.
Democracy fosters a form of
government where the people are
the governors, and their freely elect-
ed officials serve them. Laws ema-

-Mate from the people, and reflect

their desires. Any other form of
government is not democracy. ©

In a totalitarian regime, a minute
hierarchy rules, and the people serve.

A democratic state makes no dif-
ferentiation between men of different
religions, different political opinions,
or different backgrounds; all have
the equality of opportunity and are
equal in the eyes of the law.

In a totalitarian regime there is
but one accepted political opinion,
one accepted religion, if any, and
one accepted background for the
behavior of its people. Opportunity
and justice become a farce, and, for
liberty and justice, there are sub-
stituted tyranny and fear.

E IN OUR MISSION over here

hope to instill within the Ger-
mans that love of liberty and free-
dom that we, as Americans, take for
granted. We wish to help the people
of Germany think for themselves,
express themselves, and lead them-
selves. For without freedom of ex-
pression, there can be no freedom
and no truth.

We realize that the form and pace
of this development of democracy,
of freedom of expression, and secur-
ity are mainly matters that must be
determined by the Germans them-
selves. We also recognize that the
sound integration of Germans into
the European family of peaceful
nations depends, in large measure,
upon the belief in collective security
and well-being which will come from
a joint endeavor, willingly made, on
the part of all free men.

Germany's entrance into this fam-
ily can only be insured if there
can be set into motion in Germany -
those forces which will create and
maintain a governmental system
dedicated to the preservation of
basic human freedoms through demo-
cratic procedures.

The constructive forces can derive
their strength only from the re-

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 34 ---
newed vitality of the democratic
elements of Germany. This implies a
concept of government by the people,
where there is no room for the
domineering, arrogant public official
or a totalitarian hierarchy, be it right
or be it left. The concept itself is
based on the understanding of com-
mon benefits to be derived from
cooperative effort.

UR GOAL, then, is the same as it
was four years ago. We must con-
tinue to help the Germans in making
those indispensable adjustments and
to find a way towards the reorganiza-
tion of their national life on a demo-
cratic basis. We must help them
make their full contribution to world
progress. ;
It is important, however, to re-
member that only the Germans them-

selves can make these adjustments,
as a product of their own will and
their own spirit. All we can do is
lay the foundation, provide the frame-
work, and create the atmosphere in
which they may be made. -+-END

(Continued from page 28)
Bayaria’s Progress

along democratic lines, as attested
by their vigorous participation in
community affairs, They have moved
a long way since the years they were
trampled by dictatorial suppressors.

ITH ASSUMPTION of greater
responsibility in state and
federal affairs, their own task is
magnified. The reshaping of their
own future is more and more being
placed in their hands, But I am con-

fident that Bavarians will rise to the
occasion—will meet the challenge by
redoubling their efforts toward
betterment of their state and coun-
try; that they will zealously guard
against the encroachment by would-
be ruling minorities whose own sur-
vival is possible only through a
controlled state.

Democracy's best safeguard is
freedom of action, the right to live
in a free society; the right to make
a decent living and with the resul-
tant wages, to buy the things man
needs for his peace and happiness.
The Bavarian is one of the most
industrious workers. He's one of the
hardest workers I've ever seen. He
will work for right and justice. And
I'm certain he will prove to the
world that America’s faith in him
was well-founded, -+-END

FIVE ALLIED NATIONS PARADE ARMS

ae

More than 20,000 troops were
inspected by British War Secre-
tary Emmanuel Shinwell during
British Army of the Rhine exer-
cises at Sennelager in which
US, French, Belgian and Nor-
wegian units also participated.
Above, RAF Hastings trans-
ports fly over 14th US Armored
Cavalry tanks; (top right) self-
propelled anti-tank guns of Bri-
tish 10th Anti-Tank Regiment
salute; (right) Pipes and Drums
of ist Battalion The Black
Watch and 1st Battalion The
Royal Scots Fusiliers. (Baor photos)

--- Page 35 ---
Cities from Ruins

— — City Planner’s Views on Reconstruction

OUSING REPRESENTS the most

critical building need in Ger-
many today and is a problem that is
being met far from satisfactorily in
its bombed-out cities, said Sam B.
Zisman, eminent Philadelphia city
planner and architect, following a
recent three-month survey in a report
now under study by the Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

Greater attention to new sites, with
greater attention to new types of
structures rather then the uniform
four- or five-story housing so characte-
ristic of many cities in Germany, was
recommended by Mr. Zisman, who
favored a mixture of apartments, row
housing and single family units,

“A new and bolder approach” on
the part of German authorities to
overcome failures to establish priori-
ties and to program the gigantic task
of reconstruction, was urged by Mr.
Zisman, an acknowledged authority
who formerly was professor of archi-
tecture at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and currently is director
of the City Planning Council of Phila-
delphia, whence he came to Germany
under the sponsorship of the Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS,

Mr. Zisman wrote his report after
extensive study and numerous confe-
rences in the US occupation area not
only with mayors, architects, city
planners and engineers, but also with
countless ordinary citizens whose
needs and views were carefully
studied by the visiting American
expert on city planning and recon-
struction.

N ADDITION to pointing up the

failures and problems in German
reconstruction, Mr. Zisman urged a
greater interest by US officials in the
subject as contributing directly to
economic recovery in Germany, and
developing sound democratic practices
by the people.

Mr. Zisman found that “the ab-
normal situation and the difficulties
of the job in size and finances suggest
the development of some new and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

bolder approach,” which, he said, is
lacking. Although city planning has
been a well-established part of Ger-
man city government, he continued,
the responsibilities for planning and
reconstruction have been divided
among many agencies, and in few
cases was there a comprehensive,
correlated organization for city re-
construction,

“The general picture is: planning as
usual, and not much unusual," Mr.
Zisman reported. “. . . Good planning
techniques require the setting up of
both immediate and long-range ob-
jectives, one related to the other and
formulated in terms of time and cost.
This aspect of planning seems to be
missing in German practice. The pic-
ture is rather one of rebuilding and
continuing an old pattern and old
city.”

Mr. Zisman was particularly critical
of misplaced priorities in Germen
reconstruction,

HE REVIVAL of building activity

gives the superficial appearance
of active city reconstruction,” he
wrote, “And there is the appearance,
too, of considerable progress in rubble
clearance, But closer examination
reveals that there is grave question of
meeting priority needs such as hou-
sing and schools and there is room
for grave concern over the direction
in which reconstruction has been
moving.

“One must. question the use of
resources in relation to the rebuilding
of such things as government buildings,
banks or churches. And there may be
question as to the over-building of
stores and shops. In any event, it
must be reported that the people of
Germany are not happy with the
direction of reconstruction."

He emphasized that available finan-
ces were only enough to do a small
part of the job, and therefore a sound
system of priorities was needed to
make the best use of all resources.

The dominant problem of planning
and reconstruction is that of finance,

32

he said, “and must be dealt with at a
higher level in relation to the total
economy.”

S OTHER MAJOR problems in

planning Mr. Zisman cited land
policy, housing, schools and _ traffic,
He pointed out that owners of small
lots, even in bombed out areas, can
hold up programs beneficial to a
large number of people. He said that
satisfactory methods must be worked
out to take over land and compensate
owners to avoid economic losses.

Housing represents Germany's most
urgent building need, and one that is
being met far from satisfactorily, he
said. He urged greater attention to
new sites, with a mixture of types —
apartments, row housing and single
family units — rather than uniform
four- or five-story housing,

The problem of school reconstruction
was one of the most important to the
occupation and “has probably suffered
the greatest neglect," Mr. Zisman
continued, Top priority should have
been urged for schools, and “the
relatively greater attention given
governmental buildings, churches or
banks must be seriously questioned.”

Although not of highest priority,
steps should be taken now to meet
future traffic questions, Mr, Zisman
added. Greater emphasis should be
given to the principle of traffic
separation and the street plan should
anticipate increased vehicular traffic.

He recommended that the exchange
program be broadened to include
others in addition to officials and
architects, with special emphasis on
sending young German instructors in
the planning and construction field to
US institutions, so that the benefits
could be multiplied by later contact
with students.

He also recommended that HICOG
support and sponsor a number of
planning projects which would serve
as examples to all German authorities
as to what could be accomplished
with the limited means at their dis-
posal. * -+ END

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 36 ---
of Law

—— Integrity of Court Is People’s Protection
By CAPT. CHARLES R. JEFFS (USN)

State Commissioner for Bremen

MERICANS PLACE great emphasis
on the rule of law to govern our
common conduct and relationships, in
distinction from arbitrary rule or the
practice—in effect in some quarters—
of merely indicating what is aimed at
for accomplishment’ by a law, and
leaving the administration of that law
to the discretion of a designated in-
dividual or of a governmental agency
made up of a relatively small number
of officials. Indeed, we have stated
officially here in Germany the
American conviction that the “rule
of law’ is to be recognized as the
individual's greatest single protection
against a capricious and wilful expres-
sion of governmental power,

It follows, of course, that this must
be the people's law, formulated in the
people’s name and with their full
knowledge, by their own legislative
body, setting forth completely and in
positive terms what the people con-
sider to be right in the abstract sense
of right and justice for all men
without distinction as to sex, race,
color, creed—or even position in the
government.

If the courts have for their ad-
ministration a law which states what
is right, then we may look to and

hold the courts responsible for
determining who is right in any
specific instance. Obviously there

must be integrity in such a court
system and the integrity of the courts,
it should be equally obvious, is not

DECEMBER 1949

promoted by considerations of poli-
tical party politics, The appreciator
and love of a people for their political
freedom might well be measured by
the zeal with which they protect their
court system against political influence
and by the unwavering strength of
their demand for impartiality of
judgment under any and all circum-
stances.

HE REASON we have such con-
fidence in the principle of the
rule of law of the people is our
abiding faith in the fundamental
democratic concept that the majority
of the people, well informed, are

This article is a digest ab-
stracted from the text of the
speech delivered by Captain
Jeffs (standing in above U.S.
Army photo) at formal ceremony
Oct. 25 for the admission of 95
German lawyers of the State oi
Bremen to practice before the
new US Court for Germany.
Presiding Judge Robert W. Guthrie
of the First Judicial District,
comprising the State of Bremen,
presided at the swearing-in
ceremony. Other speakers were
US District Judge William R.
Reichert, Dr. Theodor Spitta,
Bremen senator for law and con-
stitution; Robert W. Johnson,
chief of the Legal Affairs Division,
OLC Bremen, and Dr. Lahusen,
president of the Bremen State
Court.

33

capable of determining their own
destiny wisely. A corollary of this, of
course, is that, however capable the
people may be of determining their
own destiny wisely, they must be
politically free to do so, The mere
mention of an “iron curtain" should
be sufficient reminder of the im-
portance of their being both well-
informed and free.

Naturally therefore, freedom of
expression, freedom of the press and
free access by the press to all sources
of official information are of im-
portance to the people's ability to in-
telligently decide important issues and
to appraise the performance in office
of their chosen representatives.
Privilege-seeking groups are, of
course, always to be watched with
a suspicious eye.

We read in the newspapers of
agitation in certain quarters for a
return to the old German civil service
system, despite the provisions for
liberalization of that system contained
in the still-valid Military Government
Law No, 15, As of particular interest
to this body, you will remember that,
among other provisions of the old
German civil service law, it provides
that no one without legal training may
occupy the post of Beamte (perma-
nent official).

Appealing to your sense of what is.
right and just, as distinct from who—
in this case lawyers—might, with
legal right, enjoy -special privilege, I

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
ask you if, in the present state of the
world's scientific development and in
view of the many fields of activity in
which civil servants today engage,
such a provision as this can possibly
be in the public interest. Such action
in Bonn is discouraging to our local
Bremen officials who have a liberal-
ized and modern civil service code
for Bremen ready for presentation to
the (Bremen) Buergerschaft (legis-
lature).

T IS WORTHY of note also, in this
connection, that the Hindenburg
decree of 1931, the so-called “Insult
Law," which provides for more severe
penalties in the case of a citizen
found guilty of knowingly making in-
correct statements about the conduct

or personality of a public official -

than it does in the case of a citizen
committing such.an offense against
another citizen not a public official,
is still in- effect although, it is to be
observed, it is fortunately not as often
invoked these days as was. formerly
the case.

Any law whid, either by reason of
its content or its manner of execution,
discourages healthy criticism of public
officials, obviously protects. malfea-
sance in office, especially when it is
coupled with a special-privilege civil
service law and attended by restric-
tions on information to be made avail-
able to the press.

The newspapers also reported steps
being taken by the Bonn government
to control information given the press
by and relative to governmental agen-
cies, thus making it more difficult for
the press to keep the public well-
informed, These reported measures
would also seem to betray a realiza-
tion, on part of the authorities order-
ing them, of the increasing growth in
assurance and important effect of Ger-
man public opinion—when it is well-
informed. It is seldom in: the public
interest to conceal or withhold news
of the policies and official activities
of the people's elected representatives
in office.

HIS INCREASING consciousness of
political power on the part of the
German people need surprise neither
Germans nor Americans. Democratic
ideals and understanding are’ not
strangers in Germany, however long

INFORMATION. BULLETIN

and assiduously they have been re-
pressed, imprisoned and rendered im-
potent by autocratic rulers.

A-great deal remains to be accom-
plished in Germany today. There are
few problems of greater magnitude or
importance than those having to do
with the reconstruction of homes and
the rehabilitation of schools. In both
of these fields, there is great oppor-
tunity for the demonstration of demo-
cracy in action, since they importantly
affect the individual life and interest
of almost every citizen of Germany
today:

These problems are not to be solved
by the efforts of architects, city plan-
ners and governmental agencies alone,

no matter how capable they may be,
nor no matter how energetically and
conscientiously they strive for their
solution. Vision and boldness in plan-
ning and financing are required, of
course,

: These can be given proper direction
and effect, however, only through
frank and complete discussion and ex-
change of planning and other informa-
tion between citizen and government;
through mutual understanding and
confidence, two-directional loyalty and
through cooperative effort; in other
words, through democratic process and
action, Any other course can only
result in disappointment and disillu-
sion. -++END

| Plows and Soya Beans Under Study

IX GERMAN - agricultural ma-

chinery specialists are: in the
United States to make a four-month
study. of the latest developments in
the production and use of agricultural
machinery in the United States, ‘and
two. American agricultural experts
are in Germany to advise German
agricultural groups on the cultivation
and ultilization of soya beans,

Making their six-week visit under
the ERP technical assistance projects,
the two American specialists are
George M. Strayer, secretary-trea-
surer of the American Soya Bean
Association of Judson, Iowa, and
Dr. J. L. Cater, of the US Department
of Agriculture, Urbana, Ill.

German authorities have pointed
out that any improvement in current
levels of food consumption must
come primarily from more intensive
use of existing farm land. In addition,
extended use of the most efficient
agricultural machinery will automat-
ically reduce dependence on animal
power and thereby release land now
used for growing animal fodder.

As a producer of farm machinery
and equipment, Western Germany
manufactures wheel and crawler
tractors, plows, thresher and
fertilizer distributors, However, there
has been no significant improvement
in design or efficiency of German
agricultural machinery in the last
10 years, Further, much of the farm

34

equipment now in use is worn out
or obsolete.

The soya bean project was
requested as a result of the introduc-
tion of various soya bean varieties
into western Germany. There is a
vital need in Germany for more
proteins and fats, and these could be
supplied in part through the cultiva-
tion of soya beans. In addition, soya
beans, a foodstuff with a very high
nutrition value, could provide a
vegetable supplement to the German
food supply.

Kitchen Tours Rhineland

One of the first attempts in Ger-
many to bring the benefits of modern
advisory services to small com-
munities has been made by the state
ministry for Food, Agriculture and
Forestry of North Rhine-Westphalia

‘in the form of a traveling demon-

stration kitchen.

The teaching staff which ac-
companies the kitchen has conducted
classes in cooking, baking, slaughter-
ing, laundry, health, child care and
citizenship.

Before the kitchen leaves a county,
a meeting attended by all people
who have participated in the classes,
the teaching staff, county authorities
and representatives of the ministry is
held to discuss the work done and
to make plans for a ‘follow-up’ pro-
gram as well as to consider in-
dividual problems and their solution.

DECEMBER 1949

co

--- Page 38 ---
Agricultural Extension
— — Developments in Wuerttemberg-Baden

By JAMES F. KEIM

The Agricultural Extension Service ceniers around the iarm as well as the
training of the farmer in technical and special agricultural fields. However,
one should bear in mind that man himself is the most important factor. The
extension worker must gain the confidence of the farmer and farm woman,

A prerequisite for greater and Jasting success is extension work throughout
the year. The extension work of the German Ministry is not adequate because
it is dependent upen the agricullural school, which requires a break in extension
work for helf a year. It is during the winter time, particularly in regard to
work with farm women, that extension is most useful. Therefore, the testing
system of agricultural and home economics extension work or, let us say,
advising by the ministry of Agriculture needs to be enlarged and strengthened.

IHESE PARAGRAPHS are from a

special report prepared by a
farmer and a farm housewife, appoint-
ed as a special committee of two to
determine the future of the Agricul-
tural and Home Economics Extension
Demonstration program in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. This program, an educa-
tional activity which began under the
Food, Agriculture and Forestry Branch,
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, now OLC
W-B, has been in action since Sept. 13,
1948, and in that brief space of time
has won the confidence of farmers
throughout the state.

The main objectives of the exlen-
sion program are:

(1) To establish an agricultural and
home economics extension program in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden; to bring to farm
people as well as farm leaders the
demonstration method of education.

(2) To bring about greater partici-
pation by the farmer and his family in
planning farmers’ home programs.
Thus the tremendous gap will be bridg-
ed that now exists between the work
of experimental stations, colleges of
agriculture and research institutes and
the application of the results of this
work.

(3) To obtain a wide dissemination
of scientific data and information in
agriculture, home making and rural
life in general.

(4) To make sure that the farmer
and his family take part in developing
the program.

(5) To encourage organization of
rural youth groups similar to

DECEMBER 1949

American 4-H clubs and thus enable
German rural youth to find an ac-
curate evaluation of agriculture as a
possible life work. In the long run
this would mean greater agricultural
efficiency. Farm life would not be
deserted by young people and the
standard of living of farmers in Ger-
many would be improved,

(6) To teach rural people through
county committees and district work-
ing groups how to work together and
help themselves. This quickening of
the community spirit would make
democratic processes more meaningful
to Germans as they observed it in
their everyday life.

WRITTEN constitution, to which

all interested people agreed upon,
is the basic document providing for the
establishment of the Extension Service.
Members of the board of directors
representing the ministry of agricul-
ture, ministry of culture, farmers’
and farm women’s associations, agri-
cultural experiment stations, cooper-

In the accompanying article, James
F. Keim, agricultural extension specialist
of the Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Branch of the Office of the State Com-
missioner, Wuerttemberg-Baden, describes
the great efforts being made to bring
the “Demonstration Method of Education”
to the farm folk of Wuerttemberg-Baden,
and the growing needs and requests for
the expansion of the program, which got
underway in Wuerttemberg-Baden one
year ago. His article reveals a con-
stantly growing interest on the part of
farm people in the extension program
now satisfactorily progressing in Wuert-
temberg-Baden.

35

Schillingshof, in Wuerttemberg-Baden,
displays kitchen stove repaired in
demonstration during fuel saving
course, (Photo by R. Meisinger)

atives, farmers and farm housewives
as well as the public at large were
appointed by the minister-president
to manage the affairs of the foun-
dation, as it is officially called.

The central board for agricultural
extension has been given monthly
grants-in-aid from Military Govern-
ment to bring the latest results of
experimental work and research to
farm people in the shortest possible
time. Under the board's supervision a
central office for the Extension
Service was established at Hohenheim
Agricultural College.

A director was employed as well as
specialists or home economics and
youth activities. An assistant director,
who acts as livestock extension
specialist, was also selected. In five
counties of Wuerttemberg-Baden,
demonstration county extension of-
fices were established with a man and
a woman employed in four of them
and a man assigned to the fifth

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
county. These workers devote all
their time to agricultural and home
economics extension activities,

An extension worker without trans-
portation is helpless and much, of the
success achieved by this small staff
can be attributed to the fact that the
Automotive Section, OMG Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, was able to make trans-
portation available to both central
extension specialists and county re-
presentatives employed by the board.

HE ENERGY, devotion to duty and

enthusiasm of the staff itself have
been highly praised. From each county
reports are continually made on the
respect these workers have won from
the farmers, In counties where exten-
sion work is being carried out, repre-
sentatives of the ministry of agricul-
ture, farmers' and farm women's as-
sociations, cooperatives, rural youth
and farmers and farmers’ wives serve
on the extension committees,

The director of the Extension Serv-
ice recently reported:

“Members of the county advisory
committee participate actively in the
work of the advisors and take a lively
interest in the county extension work-
ers’ program. Manifold suggestions
for the shaping of the advisory work
have been made and activity of the
advisors has been thoroughly dis-
cussed,”

An idea of the many activities of
the home economics extension re-
presentatives can be gained from a
recent comment of the extension
specialist:

“We discussed with shopkeepers in
Karlsruhe and Buchen the right kind

J. O. Knapp, director, Agricultural and Home Economics Extension Service,
West Virginia, addresses German Agricultural and Home Economics Extension
staff workers’ conference to give them an expert's pointers on their work.

of utensils for the home and the
women's attention will be drawn to
these articles by the advisory service.”

NOTHER STAFF MEMBER
ported on his work:

“I addressed the farmers working
in the fields and talked with them on
their ways and plans of cultivating.
About 60 individual farms were ad-
vised. One village was won over
almost as a whole to cultivate seed
potatoes. Experiments on fertilizer for
potatoes for sugar beets were
itiated.”

The assistant director and livestock
specialist commented on recent pro-
gress:

“A booklet on stable ventilation
has been finished for printing.
Elaboration for the booklet has been
taken up by discussicns with experts.
The county of Crailsheim, as a result
of meetings with farm leaders and
veterinaries arranged by the Exten-
sion Service, will take up the problem
of sterility of cattle.

“Numerous bulletins have been
prepared and some already published.

Te-

in-

At home economics demonstration in
Heidelberg county, Mrs. Leonie Lorek,
Home Economics worker, explains
details of remodelling poultry house to
Mrs. Friedel Seitz of Meckesheim
community. (Photo by R. Meisinger)

36

Radio talks on the extension program,
its aims and objectives, as well as
numerous press articles have been
written, Students at Hohenheim Col-
lege have traveled by special bus to
visit two of the demonstration
counties, and observe the work of the
county representatives.”

The youth specialist has developed
a bulletin for the use of youth leaders
and has advised and worked with
youth groups already organized.
Some new group activities have been
developed to supplement those already
organized. Reporting on one phase
of his work, he wrote:

“At Bondorf, County Boeblingen,
I arranged with the village authorities
for the cultivation of 300 cherry trees
as a project for youth work. We
started preparation for a course of
instruction for vocational leaders of
youth.”

The activities of the Extension
Service have been planned on a
seasonai basis. Last spring a short
course on extension technique, mech-
anization of agriculture, contro) of
plant diseases and farm management
problems was given over a period of
two weeks, each session lasting about
three days. This was attended by
extension workers employed by the
board as well as faculty members of

the Agricultural Winter Schools,
(Continued on page 42)

--- Page 40 ---
Appraising Cost of Peace

— — Effectiveness of US Foreign Aid Studied

Statement

By SENATOR A. WILLIS ROBERTSON

Member, Senate Appropriations Committee

N ORDER that the people of this

country (Germany) may better
understand the purpose of our visit,
it might be helpful if we , . . indicate
the authority under which we are act-
ing on this as well as the purpose
for making it...

The members of our group are
members of the Senate Appropriations
Committee and we are visiting
Europe... under the authority which
‘the Appropriations Committee has
always possessed to investigate
projects for which we have ap-
propriated or expect to appropriate
public funds.

Throughout the years members of
the Senate Appropriations Committee
have investigated projects in the
United States for the development of
which expenditures had been autho-
rized but we now find ourselves in a
situation in which expenditures
authorized to be made in foreign
countries are larger than the total of
all expenditures authorized to be made
in our own country prior to 1933.

E ARE MAKING | this
primarily for

trip
the purpose of
getting first-hand information con-
cerning those expenditures, The
largest of those expenditures is the
ECA aid to friends and allies in
western Europe,

Owing to an extended session of
the Congress, we could not leave
New York before Oct. 14 and must
be home before the Congress con-
venes next January. In order, there-
fore, to visit in that limited time all
of the Marshall Aid countries, our
stay in each country is necessarily
short. We realize that in two or three
days we can get no full and first-
hand information concerning how the
BCA program is functioning.

But we can in that time supplement
information given us before leaving
Washington by conferences with the

DECEMBER 1949

field representatives of the State
Department and ECA and by private
conversations with the nationals of
the countries being visited, including
some representatives of the govern-
ment.

ECAUSE the United States is

large in area, rich in natural
resources and highly industrialized,
there are many in Europe who are
inclined to believe that our wealth
is relatively inexhaustible. Such is
far from the truth.

In times of depressed values in 1933
our total wealth was estimated at
$400,000,000,000, In terms of present
inflated values our total wealth is
estimated at $600,000,000,000, But
when our wealth was estimated at
$400,000,000,000, we had a national
debt of only $35,000,000,000 and
now we have a national debt of
$254,000,000,000, to which possibly
$4,000,000,000 more will be added
before June 30, 1950.

Before World War II we contribu-
ted to government in taxes about
10 percent of our national income.
We are still paying most of the taxes
imposed to finance World War II and
they amount to slightly more than
25 percent of our national income.
After spending thousands of precious
lives and billions of dollars in
fighting World War II, the American
people wanted and expected peace
and relief from wartime taxation.

It has been more than four years
since the war ended and they have
neither,

With the hope of a program of
freer international trade, economic
rehabilitation of western Europe
through ECA, and the strengthening
of democracies to resist aggression
through the Atlantic Pact, the Con-
gress this year renewed the Reciprocal
Trade Agreement Act and appropria-
ted about $5,000,000,000 for rehabili-
tation and about $1,300,000,000 for

military aid, (Continued on page 49)

Studying the effectiveness and progress of US foreign aid programs, members
of the appropriations sub-committee of the Senate Armed Services Committee
visited Frankturt Nov. 2 and were welcomed by Maj. Gen. George P. Hays,
deputy high commissioner. L. tor. are Senators Edward J. Thye (R-Minn.),John
J. McClellan (D-Ark.), John C. Stennis (D-Miss.); General Hays; Senators Elmer
Thomas (D-Okla.), chairman of group, A. Willis Robertson (D-Va.), who wrote

the accompanying statement, and Dennis Chavez (D-NM.).

37

(PRD, HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Secretary Acheson Visi
— — Reaffirms US Pc

ECRETARY OF STATE Dean Acheson, after completing his conferences
on German questions with the British and French foreign ministers in
Paris early in November, came to Germany to observe the progress being
made in the country and to meet “the figures who are leading .., Germany
forward." At Bonn, he said: “I shall leave Germany greatly encouraged.”
Visiting the divided former German capital city of Berlin on Nov. 14,
Mr. Acheson. told his press conference, “Berlin has been throughout its
history a symbol of many things. Most recently it has been a symbol of
a great spirit and a great demonstration of courage—courage on behalf
of the men of the airlift and courage on behalf of the population of Bérlin.”
He continued:

“When as a result of the discussions which began in New York between
Mr. Malik and Mr, Jessup (Soviet and US delegates respectively to the
United Nations) a way was found to terminate the difficulties which had
necessitated the air lift, many of us, I believe, began to believe it had come
true that that was the end of all problems and all difficulties in Berlin.
Of course that was not the case, So perhaps it isa symbol of something else.

“It is the symbol now of the continuing struggle which must go on in
Germany and which calls for firm effort and resolution on the part of the

--- Page 42 ---
Germans. That effort and resolution will be responded to so far as the
United States is concerned, and I believe this is true of the other
occupying powers, by continued and determined help.”

i\ R. ACHESON told the American, Allied and German correspondents
in Berlin: ‘Neither the United States nor all the occupying powers
can substitute their will, their purpose, their energy, their determination

for German will, purpose, energy and determination. The United States

can help those peopie who are determined to help themselves.”
Pointing out that the present situation in China “was not the failure
(Continued on page 40)

Top, left to right, clockwise. (1) Mr. Acheson debarks at Rhine-Main Air
Base, escorted by High Commissioner McCloy. (2) At Bonn residence of
President Heuss. (3) In Heidelberg with (I-r) Gen. Huebner, Mr. McCloy,
Gen. Handy, Ambassador to UK Douglas and Gen. Cannon. (4) At Tempelhot,
Berlin, with Gen. Taylor, Mr. McCloy, Col. Duke and Col. Barr. (5) Signing
Visitors’ Book at Rhine-Main. (6) Chatting with Gen. Sir Brian Robertson.
(7) At HICOG, Berlin, HQ press conference. (8) At Bonn with Mr. McCloy,
Chancellor Adenauer and President Heuss. (9) Frankfurt press conference.
(10) Leaving Kaiserhof, Bonn. (PRD, HICOG and US Army photos)

--- Page 43 ---
(Continued from page 39)
Acheson in Germany

of American policy in China” but
the “failure of Chinese policy in
China,” Mr. Acheson continued, "If a
nation has got within itself resources
of mind and spirit and energy to
solve its own problems, but is faced
with some difficulties which are too
much for it to overcome alone, then
the United States can help. But if
that situation does not exist, then
all the help in the United States will
not achieve the result.

“We are now seeing in Berlin and
in Germany that when some difficul-
ties have been overcome, when
liberty has been preserved, when
opportunity has been preserved,
there are still problems to be met,”
the secretary stated. ‘Those problems
have got to be met every day in
every possible way by the same kind
of courage, the same kind of energy
which was brought out so dramatically
during the period of the blockade.”

PEAKING TO the German audi-

ence, he continued: “It is
something. which happens not merely
in. governmental circles but it must
happen in your press, over your
radio, in your schools and colleges,
in the labor unions, and consequent-
ly it must be through this effort that
you must nurture and develop the
liberties and opportunities which are
now yours and which over a period
of time you can bring to great frui-
tion.

“We are all entirely conscious of
the difficulties which are faced in
Germany and in Berlin. Those dif-
ficulties are going to call forth help
from us.

“We understand perfectly well the
obstacles which are being put in the
way of recovery in Germany. Those
obstacles we are as determined as
you are to meet with complete reso-
lution and without wavering of
any sort, at any time. That is the at-
titude of mind which I believe is
held in the United States about Ger-
many and the message I wish to
bring to you...”

In answer to a _correspondent's
question about his reference that
“the Germany people should have
determination to overcome their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

various problems and obstacles,’' Mr.
Acheson said:

“I think that if one looks not
merely at German problems, but if
one looks at the problems of the
world at the present time, one will
see that they fall, into two general
categories,

“There are those problems that
exist because a group of powers, led
by the Soviet Union, is attempting
to make thrusts in various directions
which interfere with the whole
environment of freedom and liberty
which many nations still have and
intend to keep. Now those thrusts
have to be met where they occur.
That is one type of problems, and
a great many individual matters of
policy fall into that area.

“Then there are problems which
exist in the world and which would
exist whether the Soviet Union existed
or not, Those are great problems of
economic recovery in Britain, France,
in Germany, in Southeast Asia, the
entire Middle East. Those problems
call for what we might describe as
the most constructive part of domestic
policy here and of American policy
abroad.”

R. ACHESON'S visit to Berlin

completed a busy four-day tour
of Germany, visiting HICOG head-
quarters in Frankfurt, EUCOM head-
quarters in Heidelberg, the present
German. capitol in Bonn and the US
headquarters in Berlin, Besides his
press conferences in each city, he met
principal officials of the US High Com-
mission and Armed Forces in Germany,
representatives of the British, French
and Soviet occupation authorities,
leading German governmental and
political officials.

During a motor tour of Berlin, he
was taken through the Brandenburg
Gate, passed the ruins of the American
Embassy building and down Unter den
Linden, historical street in the Soviet
Sector. He left Berlin Nov. 15 by plane
for Washington.

On his arrival Nov. 11 in Frankfurt,
Mr. Acheson told newsmen, “The
United States has in Germany its
initial spokesman, the High Com-
missioner, Mr. McCloy. He has the
complete confidence and the full
support of the President of the United
States and the Secretary of State, and,

40

therefore, when it becomes necessary
to speak for the United States in
Germany, that will be done by Mr.
McCloy.”

He emphasized this statement at
the Berlin press conference, saying
“Mr. McCloy represents all the policies
of the United States government here
and he will be the spokesman.”

FTER MEETING the president of

the German Republic, the chan-
cellor, members of his cabinet and
party leaders in Bonn, Mr. Acheson
said, “I hope as much as one can that
in so short a period we have done
something to establish between us
relations of trust and confidence and
relations of personal regard. We have
had very satisfactory talks.”

Concerning the foreign ministers’
conference a few days earlier, he said,
“T have explained that in the meetings
in Paris the three ministers gave to
the high commissioners authority over
a great field and the high com-
missioners will go forward with that
authority. I hope that their actions
will, as they will develop over the
immediate future, contribute mightily
towards the development and the
tecovery of Germany.

“I hope that I have been able to
carry conviction to the chancellor and
the members of his cabinet on the
part of the United States...," the
American secretary declared, “But we
know that our help can only be what
we might call marginal help.

“The real, the substantial effort,
must come from the German people
and the German government. We
have no desire and it would be
impossible if we had the desire, to
substitute our will for the will of
the government of the Republic. We
cannot substitute our energy for the
energy of the German people, We can
help and we are anxious to help, but
we can only help those who are
doing everything in the world to help
themselves.”

Saying that he was greatly encourag-
ed in his talks with the German
leaders in Bonn, Mr, Acheson stated,
“I feel that on the part of the govern-
ment and on the part of the party
leaders there is energy, there is
understanding and there is a desire to
move forward with vigor and with
great resolution.” +END

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 44 ---
For Better Understanding

—— Exchange Program Paves Way

By AMBASSADOR ROBERT D. MURPHY

T GIVES me great pleasure to extend

to you today the welcome of the
Department of State. After having
first been introduced to the judiciary
you are now meeting with representa-
tives of the executive branch in which
the Department of State is the oldest
agency. As you know, with the Con-
gress, our legislative branch, these
three pillars of the United States
Government guard. in competitive
union and in jealous responsibility
the tenets of our Constitution.

It is the particular responsibility of
the Department of State, of the Aus-
waertige Amt (Foreign Affairs Office),
to perform its part of this common
task in what today has become per-
haps the most delicate, the most diffi-
cult und possibly the most decisive
field of political action, namely, the

field of foreign or international rela-.

tions. The record of the United States
in the field of international relations
may seem brief to Europeans. It is,
in fact, the history of a young people
who, in years gone by, have regarded
it a more urgent task to put their
own house in order, rather than
seeking contact and gain, in traffic
with other peoples.

However, in the past decade great
changes have occurred in the tradi-
tional thinking of the American
people. Technological progress, politi-
cal change and the wisdom that comes
from hard and deep personal experi-
ence has widened the frame of United

Ambassador Robert D. Murphy.

States policy and has buried forever
that feeling of fake security which, in
former years, has been the backbone
of the policy of isolation. Today, the
United States, with its own house
resting on firm foundations, is helping
build many houses in other countries.

ECONSTRUCTION HAS become

a “Leitmotif’ of United States
action abroad. Aside from political
and economic considerations which
have determined and will always
determine the course of international
relations, United States foreign policy
today is imbued with a social pur-
pose—a purpose which in the words
of a great American of our century
is predicated on “the chance to help
create a new society in which men
and women the world around can live
and grow, invigorated by independence
and freedem.” It is to the protection
of this freedom from wanton inter-
ference, oppression and attack that
the foreign policy of the United
States is dedicated today.

You, who are the delegates of the
German law profession, have a per-
manent opportunity to observe the
effects of the policy of reconstruction
in your daily life. You will now have
an additional opportunity to meet the
men and women in the United States
who make, execute and support this
policy.

The very fact that you are sitting
here with us today is another mani-
festation of this policy. The exchange
of persons, of skills and of knowledge
with other peoples is part of a new
foreign policy which believes that
international relations are not merely
conducted on the level of high diplo-
macy but likewise, and in increasing
measure, in day-by-day contacts of
people with people.

N THE COMING year a large

number of your compatriots will
reap the benefits of this development.
The policy of the United States Gov-

Al

Ambassador Murphy delivered
this address at a luncheon given
by the US Department of State
Oct. 5 in Washington for 15 Ger-
man lawyers visiting the United
States under the US Exchange
Program. Mr. Murphy had been
political adviser to the US M_li-
tary Governors in Germany from
August 1944 to March 1949, when
he was transferred to Washington
as acting director of the newly-
created Office of German and
Austrian Affairs in the State
Department, Recently he was
named ambassador to Belgium.

ernment and the active interest of
American citizens will make it poss-
ible for Germans of various ages and
in many walks of life to come to the
United States, to study, to observe
and to learn, as we say colloquially,
what makes this country “tick.”

You will find many answers to your
questions. But you will also see a
great likeness and cohesion among
the many elements that make up this
democracy of ours. If you study us,
with care and without bias, you may
be able to discover the truth in the
definition of a great living American
that “democracy is the only way,
rough as that way may be, to a
civilization that adequately respects
and thereby helps to unfold the rich-
ness of human diversity.”

It is our hope that you, and those
of your fellow citizens who will fol-
low you to the United States, will
derive a full measure of satisfaction
from your visit. We are certain that
the exchange program can be success-
ful and beneficial to both of our
countries, if the selection of visitors
is a wise one and if it is made in
accordance with the high principles
of an enlightened forward-looking
policy which places human values
above all other considerations,

Although the program is larger than
any similar program ever undertaken

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
by this government, it has its limits.
Within these limits, preference must
be given to those who are today in a
position of political, social or pro-
fessional leadership or who will be
called upon to assume leadership in
days to come, That places the accent
on youth. While due credit must be
given to scholastic merit, we believe
that scholarship alone is not a quali-
fication sufficient by itself. Equal, if
not more, emphasis must be laid on
the individual's ability and willing-
ness to use his intellectual talents to
the welfare of the community as a
whole. Those who have contributed
sincerely tothe democratic recon-
struction of their homeland, have a
right to expect that their contribution
will be recognized and that they will
be helped in their efforts to continue
their work.

[DOUBTEDLY, THE German law-

yer has a right to be counted
among those who by virtue of their
position and function will play a large
part in the rebuilding of the German
community. The sincerity and the
success of Germany's return to a nor-
mal and healthy political life and of
sound and peaceful relation with
other nations will be judged, by many
Americans, by the way in which
justice will be administered in Ger-
many and by whom. It was the col-
lapse of justice that prepared and
sealed the doom of the German Re-
public. Nothing but a society in
which the cause of justice is served,
without fear or favor, by free, inde-
pendent men and women can hope to
achieve duration and will find the
recognition of other free and independ-
ent people.

It is my wish and the wish of my
colleagues that your visit to the
United States will benefit you and
your American colleagues with whom
you will come in contact, that it will
help pave the way for better under-
standing and continuing contact be-
tween you and them, and that it will
provide you with some of the tools
which will help you, upon your
return, build the kind of democratic
society in which we all will be happy
and proud to live. -++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Exhibition depicting activities of German Youth self-help organization (Jugend-
aufbauwerk) was held at Grand Hotel, Bad Nauheim, recently in cooperation
with the Education and Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG. Attendance by old and young alike was excellent. (PRD, HICOG photo)

(Continued from page 36)
Agricultural Extension

which devote at least seven months
to agricultural advisory work.

N EARLY SUMMER, large well-

planned demonstrations of labor-
saving methods in planting potatoes
were conducted cooperatively through-
out Wuerttemberg-Baden by the
ministry of agriculture and the
Extension Service. Home economics
extension workers and home econ-
omics teachers in the various winter
schools also held a short course on
fuel saving and proper utilization,
design of heating equipment and prac-
tical demonstrations on stove repair.

German women on the farm not
only must care for the house and
family but also must spend many
hours in the fields. It is essential that
they be taught all possible labor-
saving methods.

With results developing so favor-
ably, the minister of agriculture ap-
proved the continuation of the
demonstration counties for another
year. The ministry is anxious that
efforts be intensified to effect a
genuine coordination and integration
of this program with that of the win-
ter schools carrying out agricultural
advisory work done by the ministry.

42

Integration will be difficult, however,
as the winter schools are old, well-
established institutions with many
friends and have done creditable
work, Naturally, some of their leaders
look upon Extension Service's “grass
roots approach” with foreboding.
From the first it has been the wish
to “extend” the already existing pro-
gram, and this approach will be con-
tinued with tact and good will. It is
not the plan to duplicate or compete.
Instead, the basic aims of developing
rural leadership and community
cooperation through better living
methods will go forward on a cooper-
ative basis. -+-END

RIAS Only US Station

As the sole remaining US-managed
Station in Germany, RIAS services
the city of Berlin as a medium of
information and discussion and as a
means for Western Berlin leaders to
express the democratic point of view
to the population of the divided city.
In addition, RIAS functions as the
outlet for US statements and special
programs to the German people
throughout the -US-occupied area and
also provides facilities for relay of
special “Voice of America” German-
language programs to the Eastern
Zone of Germany,

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 46 ---
Challenge to Europe

—— Hoffman Urges Action to Combat Inflation

Speech

By PAUL G. HOFFMAN

Administrator, Economic Cooperation Administration

T HAS BEEN 15 months since I

had the privilege of meeting with
this Council of the Organization for
European Economic Cooperation
(OEEC), In that period Western Eu-
rope has made truly amazing pro-
gress in restoring its industrial and
agricultural production, That progress
is the result of work—hard work—
on the part of millions of Europeans.
That is the human story behind the
cold statistics of production increases.

We applaud the success of your
efforts. We in the Economic Coopera-
tion Administration, and you in the
Organization for European Economic
Cooperation, have come to know each
other well. Through working with
you toward our common objectives,
we have come to hold the OEEC in
high esteem, and our feeling toward
its members is one of deep friend-
liness. I am delighted to be here, and
I am pleased to note the presence of
the representatives of the German
Republic as full partners in your or-
ganization, It is as an admiring friend
of the OEEC that I speak to you
today,

Since 1947, we have confounded
both the Communists and the other
cynics by proving, first, that together
we could successfully start economic
recovery in Western Europe and,
second, that we could join in laying the
foundation for security against attack
upon our Atlantic community. We
have seen anxiety give way to hope.
Today I am asking you to turn hope
into confidence,

es EUROPEAN Recovery Pro-
gram is now approaching the
halfway mark. The time has come to
consider carefully what more must
be done to hold the ground already
gained and to assure the further pro-
gress that is vitally needed. We must

DECEMBER 1949

now devote our fullest energies to
two major tasks,

These tasks are: First, to balance
Europe's dollar accounts so that Eu-
rope can buy the raw materials and
other items which mean employment
and better living.

The second, is to move ahead on a
far-reaching program to build in
Western Europe a more dynamic, ex-
panding economy which will promise
steady improvement in the conditions
of life for all its people. This, I be-
lieve, means nothing less than an
integration of the Western European
economy.

The first of these tasks can be
achieved only through vigorous and
effective action by this organization
and by every participating govern-
ment. Unless dollar earnings rise dra-
matically between now and June,
1952, Europe's trade with the Ameri-
cans will have to be balanced at so low
a level that it will spell disaster for
you and difficulties for us. The read-
justment of exchange rates which
occurred in September paves the way
for a larger expansion of dollar
earnings, but devaluation by itself is
obviously not enough,

I want briefly to mention two spe-
cific fields of action which seem to
me especially relevant to this ob-
jective.

NE CONCERNS domestic fiscal
policy. As was clearly foreseen by
your governments, devaluation, essen-

This article gives the full text
of the important address delivered
to the Council of the Organization
for European Economic Cooper-
ation by Paul G. Hoffman, Ad-
ministrator of the Economic
Cooperation Administration, in
Paris on Oct. 31.

43

tial though it was, gave new impetus
to inflation. If, as a result, the past
year's efforts at stabilization are un-
done and your costs and prices are
allowed to rise, the potential benefits
in dollar earnings will never be re-
alized. This should not be allowed to
happen. Unpleasant though it may be,
action—particularly budgetary action
~—to prevent inflation is imperative.

The other field of action I have in
mind is the provision of direct in-
centive to private exporters, Practi-
cally all Europe's exports are furnish-
ed by private producers, Governments
may set targets; they may exhort; but
unless sales in dollar markets bring
adequate rewards to sellers, the great
effort required to enter and hold those
markets will never be made,

Urgent as I regard the first major
task—that of balancing Europe's
trade with the dollar area—its per-
formance will not be meaningful un-
less we have come to grips with our
second task—the building of an ex-
panding economy in Western Europe
through economic integration.

The substance of such integration
would be the formation of a single
large market within which quanti-
tative restrictions on the movement
of goods, monetary barriers to the flow
of payments, and, eventually, all
tariffs are permanently swept away.
The fact that we have in the United
States a single market of 150,000,000
consumers has been indispensable to
the strength and efficiency of our
economy.

HE CREATION of a permanent,
freely trading area, comprising
270,000,000 consumers in Western Eu-
rope would have a multitude of help-
ful consequences. It would accelerate
the development of large-scale, low-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
cost production industries. It would
make the effective use of all resources
easier, the stifling of healthy com-
petition more difficult,

Obviously, such a step would not
change the physical structure of Eu-
ropean industry, or vastly increase
productivity overnight, but the
massive change in’ the economic en-
vironment would, J am convinced, set
in motion a rapid growth in pro-
ductivity. This would make it possible
for Europe to improve its competitive
position in the world and thus more
nearly satisfy the expectations and
needs of its people.

This is a vital objective. It was to
this that Secretary Marshall pointed
in the speech which sparked Europe
to new hope and new endeavor. It
was on this premise that the Con-
gress of the United States enacted
the ECA act. This goal is embedded
in the convention of the OEEC.

I know that the difficulties which
stand in the way of its achievement
will spring all too readily to mind,
but before integration is dismissed
as a merely romantic possibility,
too remote to have any bearing on
practical, immediate decisions, I in-
vite you to weigh the alternative.

VEN ASSUMING brilliant success

in overcoming the dollar deficit
in the next two years, the end of
ERP in 1952 will at best leave Europe
in only a precarious balance with the
dollar area. Monetary reserves will
be inadequate, and it is plain that
dollar shortages will recur in one
country or another the first time the
European economy is subjected to
serious pressure. In the absence of
integration, nations would each sepa-
rately try to .protect their dollar
reserves. They would attempt to earn
dollars from each other by restricting
imports, The vicious cycle of eco-
nomic nationalism would again be
set in motion.

The consequences would be the
cumulative narrowing of markets, the
further growth of high cost protected
industries, the mushrooming of
restrictive controls and the shrinkage
of trade into the primitive pattern of
bilateral barter,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ECA Administrator Paul G. Hoffman (right) was a Frankfurt visitor Nov.3
after the OEEC meeting in Paris at which he warned Marshall Plan countries
of the need for international economic cooperation. At left is Robert M. Hanes,

new head of the ECA Mission to Western Germany.

This course spells disaster for na-
tions and poverty for peoples. This
is why integration is not just an ideal,
it is a practical necessity,

This being so, it is your job to de-
vise and put into effect your own
program to accomplish this purpose—
just as it was your responsibility,
which you carried out so ably, to take
Secretary Marshall's original sug-
gestion and give it life and breath.

N A PROGRAM designed to ac-

complish effective and lasting inte-
gration, certain fundamental require-
ments suggest themselves. First,
means must be found to bring about
a substantial measure of coordination
of national fiscal and monetary poli-
cies. Trade and payments cannot
long continue free among countries
in which there are widely divergent
degrees of inflationary, or deflation-
ary, pressure. The development of such
differences in financial pressures
among different countries will inev-
itably force the reimposition of
restrictive controls,

Unless individual countries accept
the necessity for some coordination
of domestic financial policies, the pros-
pects for eliminating even the most
restrictive types of controls over
international trade will be dim in-
deed, Coordination of these vital na-
tional policies need not result in
identity of policy. Coordination need
only go so far as to insure that poli-

44

(PRD, HICOG photo)

cies will not diverge so drastically
as to break down the whole structure
of European unity; but it must go at
least that far.

Another essential of your plan, I
believe, is that it should provide
means for necessary exchange rate
adjustments, subject, of course, to the
general supervision of the Internation-
al Monetary Fund, where these are
the only feasible alternatives to im-
posing direct exchange controls
within Europe. This is necessary be-
cause there will be occasions when,
either for reasons of policy or as a
result of circumstances beyond the
control of government, prices and
costs in one country will diverge from
those in other countries too far to be
brought into line through internal
financial measures alone.

Even when effective means are
found to coordinate financial policies
and to promote needed exchange rate
changes, there are still bound to be
temporary disturbances in the flow
of trade and payments between coun-
tries. Their whole impact should not
be allowed to fall upon the gold and
dollar reserves of the individual coun-
tries, I believe, therefore, that a third
essential of any plan you devise must
be a means to cushion the effect of
these inevitable temporary disturb-
ances.

Fourth, means must be found to in-
sure that severe strains are not im-
posed upon the maintenance of inte-

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 48 ---
gration through conflicting commercial
policies and practices. Such strains
might arise from disguised barriers to
trade within an area or from radically
divergent policies toward external
trade.

HIS BRINGS me to our final

suggestion, which has to do with
the path by which this goal of inte-
gration may be reached. I have re-
peatedly referred to the creation of a
single European market. Many of the
immediate steps that need to be taken
toward this goal can, and will, in-
volve the whole group of the partici-
pating countries. But there are other
arrangements, some already in pros-
pect, involving smaller groups of
countries which, I am convinced, will
also turn out to be steps towards the
same objective,

I do not believe that any path
toward integration should be left
unexplored. It seems to me absolutely
essential that arrangements arrived
at within groups of two, three, or
more countries should be in har-
mony with wider possibilities of
European unity and should, under no
circumstances, involve the raising of
new or higher barriers to trade within
Europe than already exist.

I feel, therefore, that, while pressing
forward to the broader objective of
economic integration of all the
participating countries, we should not
slacken our efforts toward establish-
ment of close economic arrangements
within one or more smaller groups of
countries—always with the intention
that these should contribute toward,
and not be turned against, the
integration of the whole of Western
Europe and its overseas territories.

Ihave made a number of references
to the urgency of starting immediately
on this program of integration. My
conviction on this point is based, in
the first place, on the acute realization
of the very short time still remaining
during which American aid will be
available to cushion the inevitable
shortrun dislocations which a program
of integration will involve.

There is another very important
reason for speed. The people and
the Congress of the United States,
and, I am sure, a great majority of

DECEMBER 1949

the people of Europe have instinctively
felt that economic integration is
essential if there is to be an end to
Europe’s recurring economic crises,
A European program to this end—one
which showed real promise of taking
this great forward step successfully,
would, I strongly believe, give new
impetus to American support for
carrying through into 1952 our joint
effort toward lasting European recov-

ery.

OR ALL THESE reasons—but par-

ticularly because of the urgency
of the need—I do make this considered
request: That you have ready early
in 1950 a record of accomplishment
and a program which together will
take Europe well along the road
toward economic integration.

By accomplishment I mean really
effective action to remove the quan-
titative restrictions on trade on which
you have recently made a start. I
also mean the elimination in Europe
of the unsound practice of double
pricing—that is, maintaining export

prices for fuel and basic materials
at higher levels than domestic prices.
This practice results in higher pro-
duction costs throughout Europe. It
cannot be squared with your pledges
of mutual aid.

By a program, I mean a realistic
plan to meet the fundamental re-
quirements I have described. Perhaps
you will accomplish this through
adaptation of existing institutions.
Perhaps you will find that new
control institutions are needed.

We are together playing for high
stakes in this program. The immediate
goal is a solidly based prosperity
for an economically unified Western
Europe—a goal which President
Truman reaffirmed to me just before
I left Washington, Beyond that lies
what has been the hope of all men of
good will during your lifetime and
mine, an enduring peace founded on
justice and freedom. That high hope
can be realized if we, the people of
the free world, continue to work
together and stick together. +END

US-World Trade

Trade of the United States with
western Europe and the rest of the
world is so badly unbalanced that the
United States, in its own interest as
well as that of Europe, must seek a
fundamental solution, said a report
made to Economic Cooperation
Administrator Paul G. Hoffman by a
special ECA-Department of Commerce
Mission sent to Europe last May to
study trade problems.

Pointing out that the US is not
importing enough from ERP countries
for them to earn sufficient dollars to
pay for what they must buy from
the US, the report stated expanded
sales in the US are necessary to
bridge the dollar gap, which is acting
as a brake on European recovery and
a drain on American taxpayers.

Because of the European dollar
shortage, the report said, US exports
have been maintained by subsidies
at $49,000,000,000 in grants and
$19,000,000,000 in loans to foreign
countries from July 1941 through
1948, Foreign aid programs, it con-

45

Badly Unbalanced

tinued, have
prevent chaos
institutions alive.

been necessary to
and keep free

Expansion in US purchases from
Europe and its dependencies, the
mission's report said, is most likely
in the fields of tourism, raw materials
and manufactured goods designed for
specialized purposes or requiring
special skills or unique raw materials
for their production,

“Realization of full import potentials
will require the elimination or sub-
stantial lowering of existing barriers
and other obstacles to the import
trade as well as the reform of many
existing trade practices," the report
continued. “Concurrent action by
European and US businessmen meshed
with and supported by action of their
respective governments for the
elimination of barriers and for the
improvement of business practices is
necessary to create the favorable
economic climate in which high level
US import trade can flourish.“

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
At right are (top) Mrs. Bruce of Arnot’ by Allan Ramsey,
owned by the National Portrait Gallery, Scotland; (center)
“The Family of Sir William Young,” (C, 1760) by Johann
Zoffany, from the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool; and
(bottom) Samuel Scott's “The Arch of Westminster Bridge,"
Tent the exhibit by Lady Lucas and Dingwall. (BAOR photos)

British Masters Shown
in Hamburg

An exhibition of British art entitled “Masterpieces of
British Painting from Hogarth to Turner,” considered the
most important collection of British pictures to come to
Germany since 1905, was shown in Hamburg from Oct. 15
to Nov, 12.

The exhibit, presented under the patronage of King
George VI, of England, consisted of 150 paintings and
drawings of the 18th and early 19th centuries and included
a number of world-famous masterpieces, Among the out-
standing works of art were Constable's “Flatford Mill;”
Gainsborough’'s “Portrait of Robert Andrews and his
Wife;” Hogarth’s picture of his servants’ heads; Reynold's
“Portrait of Two Gentlemen;” and 18 pictures by Turner.

All of the major works, assembled from both private
and public collections in England, were shown in Ger-
many for the first time with this exhibit,

Outside World Continues
Relief Assistance

Western Germany and the outside world have not
forgotten the needs of the Berliners, Since the end of the
blockade more than 1,000 gift parcels and 10 tons of bulk
relief supplies have reached the city daily, according to
public welfare officials of HICOG's Berlin Element.

The quantity of gift parcels reaching the city during
the past six months has continued at almost the same
level as during the Il-month blockade, Bulk relief supplies,
on the other hand, have increased almost seven-fold,

From the end of the blockade on May 12 to Sept. 31,
CARE brought into Berlin 122,600 food parcels and 7,264
clothing parcels, During the same period, CARITAS
shipped 22,631 food parcels and Colis Suisse (Swiss
Parcels) shipped 30,000 food parcels: a total of 182,495 in-
dividual parcels, These figures exclude the food and cloth-
ing parcels shipped by individuals through parcel post.

Food, clothing and other parcels shipped in bulk for
relief distribution in Berlin since the end of the blockade
total 1,562 metric tons. Largest contributor was the Berlin
Action (Hilfswerk) Committee, a German organization
operating in the western zones, which brought a total of
677 tons of supplies to the city.

Other contributors of bulk relief supplies included
CRALOG, with 580 tons; LICROSS 14 tons; Adventists,
34 tons; Mormons, 150 tons; International Red Cross,
60 tons; and UNICEF, 37 tons (cod liver oil),

During a similar five-month period during the blockade,
195,000 individual gift parcele and 228 tons of bulk relief
supplies arrived by airlift.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 50 ---
Christian Social Union

— — Part IV of Series on Political Parties

HE CHRISTIAN Social Union and

the Center Party are both
closely related to the Christian
Democratic Union. All three of these
parties are direct heirs to the prewar
Catholic Center Party.

The CSU is much more closely
connected to the ‘CDU, however, than
is the Center Party. For the CSU is
the Bavarian branch of the CDU and
does not compete with the CDU for
votes as the Center Party does in
some states. The two _ parties
cooperate closely at election time
and have worked together in the
Bizonal Economic Council in Frank-
furt and in the Parliamentary Coun-
cil in Bonn. Often they are desig-
nated together as the CDU/CSU. There
are, however, marked differences
between the two parties.

Until the close of World War I in
1918, most German Catholics gave
political allegiance to the Center
Party, which existed in all parts of
Germany. But when the Weimar
Republic was established, the Ba-
varian Catholics broke away from
the Center Party and formed a con-
fessional party of their own. This
was called the Bavarian People’s
Party and was the dominating party
in Bavaria until the Nazis gained
control in 1933 and suppressed it.

DEOLOGICALLY, the Bavarian

People's Party had much in
common with the Catholic Center
Party. The main difference between
them was that the former emphasized
Bavarian state rights and the federal-
ist structure of the constitution,
whereas the latter, as an all-German
party, was not interested in any
such regional policies.

The CSU is largely the creation
of Dr. Joseph Mueller, one of the
principal figures in the underground
German resistance movement during
the war. When he returned to Ger-
many in the summer of 1945, after
being liberated by the Americans
from a prison camp in Italy, he set
about forming a political party. It
was his ideal that this party should

DECEMBER 1949

be based on the principles of
evolutionary Christian Socialism, to
form a barrier to the materialist
Marxist collectivism embodied in the
Communist Party.

What Dr. Mueller had in mind was
the formation of a sort of German
equivalent to the British Labor Party,
by establishing a coalition of liberal-
minded men of the old Bavarian
People’s Party and the SPD. He had
talked these ideas over with Adam
Stegerwald, veteran leader of the
Christian (Roman Catholic) trade
unions of the Weimar epoch, and
obtained his agreement. Similar ideas
were leading Jakob Kaiser and An-
dreas Hermes to form the Christian
Democratic Union in northern Ger-
many.

OWEVER, MUELLER'S plans were

wrecked by the refusal of the
SPD leaders to cooperate. Baffled in
his original plan, Mueller then
decided to organize a party based on
Christian culture. He wanted it to
consist of both Protestants and
Catholics, but encountered sharp op-
position from Dr. Fritz Schaeffer, then
Bavarian minister president, and Dr.
Alois Hundhammer, the present
Bavarian minister of culture, who
wanted to revive the old Bavarian
People’s Party, which was a purely
Catholic organization.

The younger elements of the
electorate rallied, however, to the
side of Dr. Mueller. Accordingly, in
September 1945, the CSU was founded
in Munich on the principles he
championed. Among those who took
part in organizing the new party,

The salient facts regarding the history,
background, aims, organization, leader-
ship and membership of the German
political parties of today, have been
drawn from a volume on the “Political
Parties in Western Germany" issued
by the Civil Affairs Division, OMGUS.
This month's article on the CSU, a
powerful group which must be reckoned
with by reason of its affiliation with the
CDU, will be followed by others dealing
with postwar Germany's lesser political
groups.

47

apart from Dr. Mueller, were Michael
Horlacher, now president of the
Bavarian legislature; Alois Schloeg},
the Bavarian minister of agriculture;
Joseph Baumgartner, now leader of
the Bavaria Party; Anton Pfeiffer,
member of the CSU delegation to
Bonn, and August Haussleiter, deputy
CSU leader.

The principal difference between
the CDU and the CSU lies in the fact
that the CSU is a Bavarian party.
It, therefore, accentuates state rights
whereas the CDU favors a strong
central government.

Bavaria's CSU draws its heaviest
vote from the rural districts where
farm economics and the Catholic
Church are decisive influences. The
Bavarian farmer is skeptical of a
central government because he feels
that the Bavarian government can
look after his interests better.

LL THE BAVARIAN farmer's com-

plaints during the past few years
(cattle collection quotas, food price
controls, grain deliveries) have been
expressed by Bavarian leaders against
the Bizonal Administration, which
has been pictured as representative
of centralist oppression. Furthermore,
the Catholic Church is extremely
suspicious of any central German
authority whose spokesmen—the men
at Bonn—would not renew the Reich
Concordat of 1933, guaranteeing cer-
tain Catholic Church interests in
education. These are the key reasons
why the CSU has made such a strong
stand for state rights at Bonn,

Accordingly, the CSU delegates at
Bonn voted against the Basic Law
and the CSU took the lead in getting
the Bavarian legislature to turn
down the constitution when it came
up for a vote in that body, As Dr.
Hans Ehard, the Bavarian minister
president, put it, the CSU rejected
the Basic Law for four reasons:

1, Legislative powers of the federal
government are too extensive, per-
mitting it too much interference in
state affairs.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
2. The Federal] Council has had its
powers reduced too far in that it is
not permitted to retain its veto right
over all legislation.

3. The financial power granted to
the central government is so great
that it makes the state governments
dependent on the central financial
administration.

4. There has been no proper so-
lution of the “cultural question” in
that the maintenance of state-sup-
ported confessional schools is not
guaranteed.

UDGING BY VOTES and party

leader utterances, the CSU has
resisted more strongly than the CDU
the encroachments of the German
Bizonal Administration in Frankfurt
upon the powers of the states. A
notable example of this resistance
was the attempt of the CSU, under
the leadership of Dr. Mueller, to
bring about the dismissal of Dr. Hans
Schlange-Schoeningen, the director of
agriculture in the Bizonal Ad-
ministration, in the autumn of 1948, for
tefusing to relax price controls on
important foodstuffs Bavarians sell.

The efforts of the Bavarians to
secure his dismissal failed with the
refusal of the CDU to join in the
campaign. This rift almost broke up
the working partnership between the
two ‘parties at Frankfurt.

It is also the federalist attitude of
the CSU that is largely responsible
for the loose organizational
nection between it and the CDU, The
latter party is organized on a zonal
basis in the British zone, Dr. Aden-
auer would like to see the two
parties firmly linked on an interzonal
basis, as are the SPD and the FDP.
His endeavors have been frustrated,
however, by CSU opposition.

The CSU and CDU agree, however,
on most of the other current political
issues and are particularly in close
accord on religious, educational and
cultural questions.

NTIL 1948, the CSU was the

strongest party in Bavaria. At
the legislature election of Dec.1,1946,
it polled a clear majority, getting
1,592,880 votes or 52.3 percent of the
votes cast. The party as a result
holds 103 of the 180 seats in the
Bavarian legislature. After forming
for a while a coalition government

INFORMATION BULLETIN

con-.-

with the SPD, the CSU now rules
Bavaria with a strictly party cabinet
headed by Dr, Erhard.

The party's control of the state,
however, is threatened by interna)
dissension and by the competition of
the Bavaria Party. This rivalry
became serious when the Bavaria
Party was licensed for the first time
as a political organization in March
1948, and when Dr. Joseph Baumgart-
ner, minister of agriculture, bolted
from the CSU to the new party.

The Bavaria Party took the field
for the first time in the municipal
and county elections in Bavaria in
April and May 1948. It polled 8.7 per-
cent, compared with the CSU's 37.8
percent. The CSU may thus lose its
majority in the state.

The CSU, too, has suffered from
a long and bitter internal dissension
between the supporters of Dr. Josef
Mueller and those of Dr. Alois Hund-
hammer. The former place emphasis
on the unity of Bavaria with Ger-
many, the cooperation of Protestants
and Catholics, and a liberal and pro-
gressive social program.

Dr. Hundhammer and his followers,
on the other hand, embody to a
large extent the policies of the pre-
war Bavarian People's Party. They
stress traditional Bavarian state
rights, the interests of the Roman
Catholic Church and stricly tradi-
tionalist social and cultural programs.
They have much in common with the
Bavaria Party of Dr. Baumgartner.

HE STRUGGLE between these

two wings of the CSU came to
a head at the annual party meeting
at Straubing May 27-29, 1949. In
order to preserve the unity of the
party, Dr. Ehard stepped into the
breach and agreed to be a candidate
for election as chairman of the
party. He received 396 votes against
151 for Dr. Mueller. Dr. Ehard's elec-
tion was generally interpreted as a
victory for the Hundhammer faction.
It was this consideration that caused
Dr. August Haussleiter, the leader of
the Protestants of Franconia in the
party, to resign from office as deputy
leader.

The present organization of the
CDU-CSU is so loose that it almost
baffles description. The two parties
are now linked together in a relation-
ship that is described as a “working

48

partnership." This grouping dates back
to Feb. 4 and 5, 1947, when CDU and
CSU leaders from all four zones met
at Koenigstein, near Frankfurt, and
formally founded the partnership.

An executive board of eight persons
was set up to act as their national
leadership. It consisted of Konrad
Adenauer and Friedrich Holzapfel for
the British Zone; Josef Mueller and
Erich Koehler for the US Zone; Peter
Altmeier and Ulrich Steiner for the
French Zone, and Jakob Kaiser and
Ernst Lemmer for the Soviet Zone,

This body was in the habit of
meeting quarterly to coordinate party
policies until, on Dec. 20, 1947 the
Soviet authorities engineered the
removal of Kaiser and Lemmer from
the leadership of the CDU in the
Eastern zone. Relations with the CDU
in the East thereafter became strained,
although Prof. Hugo Hickmann,
chairman of the party in Saxony,
attended a meeting of the national
executive committee as late as April
1948, But when the CDU in the Soviet
Zone elected Otto Nuschke chairman
of the party at its annual meeting in
Erfurt, Soviet Zone, on Sept. 17, 1948,
the working partnership formally
announced severance of all connection
with the eastern body.

HE OLD working partnership still
exists on paper, but has not met
since September 1948 and is not
likely to assemble as a body again.
Actually, is has been replaced by a
temporary organization, set up by a
meeting of CDU/CSU leaders at
Koenigswinter on Jan. 8-9, 1949. This
meeting ‘set up the CDU/CSU organi-
zation to coordinate policies and to
draft an election campaign program.
The organization consists of the
chairmen of all the west German state
branches of the party, the election
committee to which every state branch
elects a member, and the party
secretaries of each state branch.

In view of the heterogeneous
elements of which it is composed, it
appears unlikely that the CDU/CSU
will ever approach the tight, centrally-
controlled party organization possessed
by the SPD, The Bavarians, with their
insistence upon state autonomy, will
see to it that the party organization
is never controlled from the top as
the SPD is from Hanover. -- END

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 52 ---
TRUCKS GIVEN GERMAN RELIEF GROUP

INE reconditioned two and onehalf
ton trucks have been presented to

the German Caritas-Verband (Charity ~

Organization) by the War Relief
Services of the National Catholic
Welfare Conference (NCWC) as part
of the program in assisting the Ger-
man refugee problem. The presenta-
tion was made Nov. 16 at a ceremony
in Munich-Pasing.

The trucks, which are to be used
to transport relief supplies and build-
ing materials for Caritas-Verband
housing projects, were delivered to
Frankfurt, Freiburg, Hildesheim, Osna-
brueck, Paderborn, Wurttenberg and
Munich. The housing program has
been adopted by the various dioceses
in Germany to help finance and pro-

(Continued from page 37)
Appraising Cost of Peace

S PREVIOUSLY indicated, our

Committee is primarily con-
cerned with the rehabilitation pro-
gram, We wish to get, if possible,
personal information of whether or
not the sacrifices being made by our
constituents to support that program
are a contribution to the peace and
security of the world or money that
is being dissipated and wasted.

A secondary purpose of our trip
is to make personal contacts with the
nationals of friendly nations and
political allies who, we believe, share
our love for personal freedom and
our desire to preserve it. Our great
humorist Will Rogers said, “I never
hated any man I personally know.”
It is easier, of course, to cement ties
of friendship through personal
contacts than through an interchange
of views across 3,000 miles of ocean.

The reception given us in all of the
countries we have visited has been
heartwarming. The knowledge that
we have gained concerning the
rehabilitation program has been
encouraging, We shal] return to our
native states with a clearer picture
of what is involved in a program of
international cooperation between
peace-loving people. +END

DECEMBER 1949

mote the construction of homes for
refugees.

Since the beginning of this building
project, the transportation of building
supplies has been a costly item, and
Caritas-Verband now hopes that the
trucks will not only accelerate the
home building program but also re-
duce the unit cost.

War Relief Services, NCWC began
its work in Germany in 1945 when it
brought in 1,000,000 pounds of food,
clothing and medicine for distribution
to displaced persons, Since then it
has given more than 5,000,000 pounds

of supplies to DP’s. In addition,
NCWC maintains offices throughout
Germany to assist the DP’s with their
problems of emigration.

In 1946, as a charter member of
CRALOG, War Relief Services, NCWC,
with the cooperation of Caritas-Ver-
band, began its relief program for
refugees and expellees. More than
33,000,000 pounds of relief supplies
have been distributed since the in-
ception of this program,” which still
continues and provides assistance to
people who are in need, regardless
of race and religion,

Bavaria Warned

The Bavarian government has been
told it must be responsible for
providing equipment and chemicals
necessary to insure potable water
meeting US Army standards in 53
Bavarian communities.

A letter of Sept. 14 from OLC Bavaria
to Dr. Hans Ehard, Bavarian minister
president, pointed out that 2,486 cases
of typhoid fever and 535 of para-
typhoid fever were reported in
Bavaria during 1948, Each county
reported at least one case of typhoid
fever, During the first six months of
this year 669 cases of typhoid and
224 of paratyphoid fever were re-
ported. Severe epidemics have oc-
curred at Neuoetting and Mindelheim.

“Typhoid fever is obviously endemic
in Bavaria and one of the major
problems facing the German public
health service,” the letter stated. “It
is the policy of the United States
Government that normal govern-
mental services necessary to the
health and welfare of the German
population and of the Occupation
Forces shall be provided by the Ger-
man government. This includes pro-
vision of potable drinking water in
communities where a considerable
number of Americans reside. Potable
water is chlorinated water which
meets US Army standards.”

The state Commissioner's letter said
the majority of the 53 communities
already have US Army or Air
Force equipment installed and that

49

on Water Supply

such American equipment would
remain for six months. It will be
removed only on 90 days’ notice to
local German officials through local
commission representatives,

“In the communities where no
chlorination apparatus is installed,"
the letter added, “it is expected that
German officials will take steps to
provide such apparatus at once and
have it functioning not later than
three months from this date. Since
the provision of chlorinated potable
water is primarily of importance to
the health of the German population,
expenditures for this service will be
borne by the state government and
not charged as occupation costs or
as a mandatory expenditure.”

Sound versus Infection

A portable apparatus for the pro-
duction of sound waves above the
frequency which the human ear can
hear has been developed by a Ba-
varian firm.

The machine, used in medical
therapy, is sturdy, simple to operate
and small enough for a private phy-
sician to carry to the home of a
patient, according to S. M. Gould of
Bavaria'’s Joint Export-Import Agency.

High frequency sound, which
breaks down tissue cells by causing
them to vibrate faster than normal,
is used to treat tumors, skin diseases
and infections.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 53 ---
Industrial Production

—— New Postwar High Reached in September

\HE MONTHLY INDEX of in-
dustrial production has been
revised and expanded to apply to all
of western Germany and to cover 30
industrial groups, superseding the
previous official index covering the
Bizonal Area and 19 industrial groups.
The new index, based on the prewar
year of 1936 and adjusted to the num-
ber of working days a month, is cal-
culated by the West German Econo-
mics Administration, according to a
Tripartite announcement of Oct. 21.

The new index reveals that indus-
trial production rose sharply to a new
postwar high in September, Production
for September was 92 percent of the
1936 level, against 87 percent for

August. The rise from July-August,
according to the new index was
slighter—from 86 percent to 87 percent.

A breakdown of the 30 industrial
groups in the new index indicates
that the September rise, although
general, was mainly concentrated in
production of consumer goods. Shoe
production, for example, showed a
gain of 22 index points—from 58 per-
cent in August to 80 percent in Sep-
tember. Textile production increased
from 81 percent in August to 91 per-
cent in September. Other significant
gains during September occurred in
the production of rubber products,
electricity and .electrical equipment.

Labor’s Role Vital to Peace, Democracy

“The labor movement can probably
do more to bring about democracy
and peace in Germany than any other
secular institution—provided its pro-
gram is grounded on spiritual values,”
declared Dr. George C. Higgins, visit-
ing expert after a 90-day survey of
the role of the church in German
labor, His report on his survey, made
under the auspices of the Religious
Affairs Branch, Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, OMGUS, has
been released by HICOG.

Dr. Higgins, who is connected with
the Social Welfare Section of the
National Catholic Welfare Council of
Washington, DC, stated that he was
concerned chiefly with the relationship
between religion and the German
working man as the actual or potential
member of the trade union movement.

“The future peace and happiness of
the world,” said Dr. Higgins, “will
depend, in a large measure, on a
degree to which the working classes
and their unions cre imbued with
teligious principles and activated by
religious motives,

“I do not mean by this that the
churches should ‘control’ the labor

INFORMATION BULLETIN

movement, But the churches must
assume the responsibility for educat-
ing trade union members in the ethics
of economic and social life.”

In conducting this survey, Dr.
Higgins consulted with Catholic and
Protestant church leaders, officials of
the trade unions, representatives of
voluntary American religious agencies
and officials of OMGUS Religious
Affairs Branch and Manpower Branch,

Dr. Higgins stated that a weakness
in the overall approach of the social
action movement is a tendency to be
somewhat too theoretical, too “‘schol-
arly." “What is urgently needed in
Germany is a sincere endeavor on the
part of all non-communist groups
within the labor movement to con-
centrate on common social and
economic objectives and to leave the
ideological quarrels of the past out-
side the trade union hall,’ he said.

“If we in the United States have
anything to teach the Germans in the
field of social action the best way to
teach them is to bring more German
leaders to the United States and let
them study our institutions for
themselves.”

50

Production of coal in western Ger-
many rose slightly—from 91 percent
in August to 93 percent in September.
Rises of four to nine index points
occurred in the level of steel con-
struction and machinery,

Comparison of industrial production
for July, August and September is
shown in the following chart of the
index prepared by the West German
Economics Administration.

Index of Industrial Production
(preliminary)

1936 equals 100,
Adjustment for working days but not for
seasonal variation,

Total all industriest. July 49 Aug. 49 Sept. 49

(incl. eletricitiy and gas) 86 87 92
(excl.electricityand gas) 83 83 88
Investment goods (total). 81 81 86
Raw materials... . 77 79 78
Finished products . . . 84 83 90

General production goods

(incl electricity and gas) 103 105 109
(excl.electricityandgas) 95 95 97

Consumer goods ... 75 78 87
Coal mining ..... 92 91 93
Tron ore mining. . . . 114 115 122
Metal ore mining . . . 90 85 82
Potash and salt ASR ie 114 116 120
Crude oil . . . . » 202 204 204
Oil refinery products . . 87 85 80
Coal products. . . . . 93 95 93
Stones and earths . . 94 97 99
Iron and steel (including

castings)... 64 65 63

Tron and steel | 63 65 62

Castirige >... hae 64 67
Non-ferrous metal pro-

duction (incl. castings) 73 73 n,a.2

Non-ferrous metals.. . 73 73 70

Castings . . 73 3 ma
Steel construction (includ-

ing freight cars). . . 104 100 106
Steel construction (exclud-

ing freight cars)... 50 52 61
Machinery . . . . . . 92 87 94
Vehicles... (5 ss 5 89) 94 98
Shipbuilding . . . . . 17 22> nee
Electrical equipment . .155 152 176
Other metal goods. . . 54 57 61

Chemicals (excluding arti-
ficial fibers)

Artificial fibers | 219
Ceramics... .- . 80
Glass (total) . . 147

Flat glass . « 141
Hollow glass . «156
Sawmills and woodwork-
ing . .
Paper and paper products n
Rubber products. . .
Leather and leather prod-
ucts (excluding shoes) 53
Shoes . : ke
Textiles . .
Electricity . ta
Gas « 85

g food processing,
building.
2 n. a.—not available.

--- Page 54 ---
Industrial Production

—— New Postwar High Reached in September

\HE MONTHLY INDEX of in-
dustrial production has beer
revised and expanded to apply to all
of western Germany and to cover 30
industrial groups, superseding the
previous official index covering the
Bizonal Area and 19 industrial groups.
The new index, based on the prewar
year of 1936 and adjusted to the num-
ber of working days a month, is cal-
culated by the West German Econo-
mics Administration, according to a
Tripartite announcement of Oct. 21.

The new index reveals that indus-
trial production rose sharply to a new
postwar high in September, Production
for September was 92 percent of the
1936 level, against 87 percent for

August. The rise from July-August,
according to the new index was
slighter—from 86 percent to 87 percent.

A breakdown of the 30 industrial
groups in the new index indicates
that the September rise, although
general, was mainly concentrated in
production of consumer goods. Shoe
production, for example, showed a
gain of 22 index points—from 58 per-
cent in August to 80 percent in Sep-
tember. Textile production increased
from 81 percent in August to 91 per-
cent in September. Other significant
gains during September occurred in
the production of rubber products,
electricity and .electrical equipment.

Labor’s Role Vital to Peace, Democracy

“The labor movement can probably
do more to bring about democracy
and peace in Germany than any other
secular institution—provided its pro-
gram is grounded on spiritual values,”
declared Dr. George C. Higgins, visit-
ing expert after a 90-day survey of
the role of the church in German
labor, His report on his survey, made
under the auspices of the Religious
Affairs Branch, Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, OMGUS, has
been released by HICOG.

Dr. Higgins, who is connected with
the Social Welfare Section of the
National Catholic Welfare Council of
Washington, DC, stated that he was
concerned chiefly with the relationship
between religion and the German
working man as the actual or potential
member of the trade union movement.

“The future peace and happiness of
the world," said Dr. Higgins, ‘will
depend, in a large measure, on a
degree to which the working classes
and their unions cre imbued with
teligious principles and activated by
religious motives.

“I do not mean by this that the
churches should ‘control’ the labor

INFORMATION BULLETIN

movement, But the churches must
assume the responsibility for educat-
ing trade union members in the ethics
of economic and social life.”

In conducting this survey, Dr.
Higgins consulted with Catholic and
Protestant church leaders, officials of
the trade unions, representatives of
voluntary American religious agencies
and officials of OMGUS Religious
Affairs Branch and Manpower Branch,

Dr. Higgins stated that a weakness
in the overall approach of the social
action movement is a tendency to be
somewhat too theoretical, too “schol-
arly." “What is urgently needed in
Germany is a sincere endeavor on the
part of all non-communist groups
within the labor movement to con-
centrate on common social and
economic objectives and to leave the
ideological quarrels of the past out-
side the trade union hall,’ he said.

“If we in the United States have
anything to teach the Germans in the
field of social action the best way to
teach them is to bring more German
leaders to the United States and let
them study our institutions for
themselves.”

50

Production of coal in western Ger-
many rose slightly—from 91 percent
in August to 93 percent in September.
Rises of four to nine index points
occurred in the level of steel con-
struction and machinery.

Comparison of industrial production
for July, August and September is
shown in the following chart of the
index prepared by the West German
Economics Administration.

Index of Industrial Production
(preliminary)

1936 equals 100,
Adjustment for working days but not for
seasonal variation.

Total all industriest. July 49 Aug. 49 Sept. 49

(incl. eletricitiy and gas) 86 87 92
(excl.electricityandgas) 83 83 88
Investment goods (total) . 81 8186
Raw materials . .. . 77 79 78
Finished products . . . 84 83 90

General production goods

(incl electricity and gas) 103 105 109
(excl. electricity and gas) 95 85) 87

Consumer goods ... 75 78 87
Coal mining . .... 92 91 93
Tron ore mining. . . . 114 115 122
Metal ore mining . . . 90 85 82
Potash and salt want 114 116 120
Crude ofl . . . . + 202 204 204
Oil refinery products . . 87 85 80
Coal products. . . . . 93 95 93
Stones and earths . . 94 97 99
Iron and steel (including

castings) . . 64 «65s

Tron and steel. . . . 63 65 62

Castings . . IY Galas YY
Non-ferrous metal’ Ppro-

duction (incl. castings) 73 73° miae
Non-ferrous metals. . 73 73 70
Castings 731-98 4\ eae
Steel construction. (includ:

ing freight cars). . .104 100 106
Steel construction (exclud- ¥

ing freight cass) PEO 5261
Machinery . . + +» 92 87 94
Vehicles . 1... ss. 89 94 98
Shipbuilding . . A AE 22 n. a.
Electrical equipment + « 155 152 176
Other metal goods. . 54 57 61
Chemicals (excluding arti-

ficial fibers) . . . . 89 88. 89
Artificial fibers . . . . 219 214 211
Ceramics ..... - 80 81 83
Glass (total) . . . . .147 166 162

Flat glass . . +. AL 166 160

Hollow glass . . « 156 166 164
Sawmills and woodwork-

ing . + 99 95 95
Paper and paper products 77. 75 77
Rubber products. . 89 «89s
Leather and leather prod-

ucts (erclvatny shoes 53 57 61
Shoes. . 55 58 80
TOXHES Las. er 5) oi 2D 81 91
Electricity. . 10%... 144 154 166
Gass te . 85 86 86

1 Excluding food processing, stimulants and
building.
2 n. a.—not available.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 55 ---
New Records Set in Coal Production |

According to provisional figures of
the German Coal Mining Administra-
tion (DKBL), 351,393 tons of hard coal
was mined in the western German
coal fields of the Ruhr, Aachen and
Lower Saxony on Oct. 21, setting a
new postwar production record. This
record is of particular significance
because the 35,000 ton mark is ge-
nerally regarded as one of the major
intermediate targets of western
German coal production.

After fluctuations chiefly due to
increased absenteeism during the
holiday period in July, August and
September, coal output rose. steadily
in October. Asa result of this upward

trend, a new daily average production
record was also achieved with 344,225
tons up to Oct. 21, compared with
337,400 tons in September.

The improvement in October was
chiefly due to a drop in absenteeism
from 16.9 percent for all employed in
September to 14.89 percent in October.
Performance figures per man shift in
October rose slightly to 1.367 tons for
all underground as compared to 1.364
in September. The rise in output is
almost certain to continue because in
coal mining the best results are

usually achieved in November, due to,

a special effort made by the miners in
view of the Christmas holidays.

Farm Machine Prices Too High

Although more agricultural machines
and implements were available in
July than in any month since the
beginning of the occupation, high
prices still limited the farmers to
modest purchases. All types of trac-
tors were immediately available for
sale with the exception of the three
most popular makes, deliveries of
which are delayed by four to five
months.

Manufacturers complain that their
stocks are not moving, but few of
them have made any effort to reduce
prices. When in September 1948

allocations of steel to the manufac-
turers were increased it was supposed
that by raising production overhead
cost would decline and in turn would
lower the price of the finished prod-
uct. Actually, prices have dropped
by only five percent—from US Mili-
tary Governor's Monthly Report
No. 49.

Gift of 1,000 Bibles
One thousand Bibles printed in
English are being distributed gratis to
communities throughout Hesse by
HICOG county resident officers,

Specially-prepared infant food, one of many similar shipments delivered to all
obstetrical clinics in EUCOM, is inspected at Giessen's 57th Field Hospital by
Captain Mary Doyle, acting chief nurse, and Captain Lawrence Knox, medical
officer. At left is MISgt. Virgil Cummins of the Giessen Quartermaster Depot,

who delivered the shipment.

saeco Vs ”

(US Atmy photo)

Downward Trend
In Prices Continues

HE DOWNWARD TREND in con-

sumer prices for Germans of the
US and British Zones which began in
January, continued during September,
it was annouced by the Reports Di-
vision, Office of Economics Affairs,
HICOG, and the Office of the UK
Economics Adviser. The September
index was 155.5, representing a
decline of six tenths of a point under
August and 12.5 points since last De-
cember.

The index, based on 1938 equals
100, reflects the monthly movement
of prices paid by a wage earner's
family of four, with one child under
14, The index family has a monthly
income of DM 270 as the net available
for consumer purchases, Black market
prices are not reflected.

The September decline in consumer
prices was distributed over five of
the nine commodity groups within the
index. Food, clothing and household
goods prices declined from 1.0 to 1.4
points. Two other groups, cleaning
costs and traveling, decreased less
than one percent.

Two commodity groups partially
offsetting the declines in the above
fields were education and entertain-
ment, and stimulants (tobacco, spirits
and coffee). The former group rose
2.6 points over the preceding month
to a level of 147.4, while the latter
group rose only one tenth of a point.
Rents and heat and light prices, which
are controlled, remained the same as
in previous months.

A slight decrease also occurred in
the basic materials price index for
September. The index averaged 185.6
for September against 187 points for
August. This index, also based on the
year 1938, is divided into two com-
ponents — agricultural items and
industrial materials, Overall prices in
the former group are still higher than
in December 1948, while the latter
group has dropped steadily since last
year.

Volkswagen Hits New High
Of the 4,282 Volkswagen auto-
mobiles produced in July — a new
postwar record — 3,236 went to the
German economy and 1,046 to export.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 56 ---
| Dr. Josef Mueller, Bavarian leader.

Personnel Notes

Bolds Succeeds Van Wagoner

LARENCE M. BOLDS was named

acting state commissioner . for
Bavaria to succeed Murray D. Van
Wagoner, whose resignation became
effective Oct. 22. Mr. Bolds had been
deputy state commissioner and, prior
to the HICOG reorganization, deputy
state director of OMG Bavaria.

Mr. Van Wagoner had submitted
his resignation last summer but
agreed to continue in office until the
transfer to State Department control
had been completed. Mr. Bolds has
served with Military Government
since the first US team was formed
in France prior to the end of the war
to take over MG functions in Bavaria.

Mr. Van Wagoner, a former gov-
ernor of Michigan, had been in
Bavaria for the last two years, first
as director, and under HICOG as state
commissioner. He has returned to his
home in Birmingham, Mich., to resume
work as a consulting engineer.

In announcing the change, High
Commissioner McCloy said that he
regretted the loss of Mr. Van Wagoner
to the HICOG organization,

“From the reports I have received
end from my own observation during
the past three months, I can say that
Governor Van Wagoner has done an
excellent job in implementing Military
Government and State Department
policy in Bavaria,” Mr. McCloy said.

“He has piloted Military Govern-
ment through the extremely difficult
period when operational controls

Van Wagoner says goodbye to Clarence Bolds (right),
(PRB, OLCB photo)

over German affairs were largely
relinquished in favor of advice and
guidance. The achievement of Gov-
ernor Van Wagoner and his staff in
Bavaria has been entirely praise-
worthy, In addition, he has directed
the organization of the Office of
State Commissioner for Bavaria and
leaves behind him an excellent staff,
of which Mr, Bolds has been an
outstanding member.

“The departure of Governor Van
Wagoner will mean a real loss to the
HICOG organization.”

The former OMGB director had
been elected to a two-year term as
governor of Michigan in 1940, serving
during the conversion of Michigan
industry to the war effort. He was
elected Michigan state highway com-
missioner in 1933, reelected in 1937,
and was appointed US delegate to the
International Road Congress at The
Hague by President Roosevelt in 1937.
Born in Kensington, Mich., he received
an engineering degree from the
University of Michigan in 1921.

Mr. Bolds is the last remaining
member of the original Military
Government team for Bavaria or-
ganized in France during the war. He
came to Munich in May 1945 and
served for two years as director of
the OMGB Manpower Division. He
was appointed deputy state director
in July 1947.

Mr. Bolds had been a labor relations
adviser with the War Production
Board in Washington in 1942, returning
to Detroit later that year as director
of the Office of Labor Production,
WPB, Detroit Region.

In September 1943, Mr.
Bolds was commissioned a
captain in the US Army,
and attended Military Go-
vernment schools at Fort
Custer, Mich., and Boston
University. He was sent
overseas in January 1944
and in England was assigned
to the SHEAF Special Staff
for Germany until he joined
the Bavarian MG detachment.

52

Editor Wallenberg Back

Hans Wallenberg returned to Ger-
many Oct. 26 to assume the position
of publisher of Die Neue Zeitung, US-
published German-language daily
newspaper with editions in Munich,
Frankfurt and Berlin. His headquarters
is in Munich,
where he also
edits the Munich
edition,

Mr. Wallenberg
was the editor of
Die Neue Zeitung

when it was
a_ twice - weekly
newspaper pub-

lished in Munich,
holding that position from the spring
of 1946 until October 1947 when he
returned to the United States to enter
private business.

During the war, he participated in
many major campaigns, rising from
private to major in the US Army. He
entered Germany in the spring of 1945
with the occupying forces. During
the summer and fall of 1945 he was
editor of the Allgemeine Zeitung, the
US German-language newspaper in
Berlin until the first German-published
newspaper was licensed by Military
Government.

* * *

Returns as Special Consultant
Shepard Stone of The New York
Times has been appointed acting
deputy to Ralph Nicholson, director
of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
to serve as a special consultant on in-
formation and cultural affairs in Ger-
many. He has been granted a leave
of absence by the Times for 90 days.

Mr. Stone was one of the original
information control officials in Ger-
many, serving with the control group
of the First Military District, then
comprising Hesse, Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Bremen, from the end of the
war to early in 1946, A graduate of
Dartmouth College in 1929, he had
taken graduate work in Germany, re-
ceiving his doctor of philosophy de-
gree from Heidelberg University in
1933.

Since leaving Germany in 1946, he
has been the Times’ assistant Sunday
editor.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 57 ---
Landauer Joins Free U

Dr, Carl Landauer, professor of eco-
nomics at the University of California,
arrived in Berlin Oct. 28 to instruct at
the Free University for the first se-
mester of 1949/50.

Dr. Landauer is the second Ameri-
can professor to accept an invitation
to instruct at the Free University of
Berlin for a full semester, the first
having been Dr. Hans Rosenberg,
historian from Brooklyn College, New
York,

Dr. Landauer will lecture at the
Economics Faculty of the Free Uni-
versity and at the Berlin School for
Political Science. His courses on eco-
nomic theory will be especially valu-
able to German economists by ac-
quainting them with important devel-
opments in this field during the past
two decades in Great Britain and the
United States.

Born in Munich in 1891, Carl Lan-
dauer was educated at the universi-
ties of Berlin, Munich and Heidelberg.
From 1926, he lectured at the Berlin
College of Cconomics and was mana-
ging editor of the magazine Der Deut-
sche Volkswirt (The German Econo-
mist),

Following Hitler's rise to power, Dr.
Landauer was dismissed on political
grounds, He accepted an invitation to
instruct at the University of Califor-
nia, where he has been a lecturer and
professor since 1934, In 1940, he be-
came a citizen of the United States.

* * *
Winning Succeeds Grace

Dr. Alonzo G. Grace has resigned as
chief of the Education and Cultural
Relations _Divi-
sion, Office of
Public Affairs,
HICOG, to return
to the United Sta-
tes to become pro-
fessor of educa-
tion at the Uni-
versity of Chi-
cago.

Dr. Charles Win-
ning, who was chief of the Public
Affairs Division, Office of the State
Commissioner for Bavaria, was ap-
pointed to the HICOG position as
successor to Dr, Grace.

Ralph Nicholson, director of the
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, in

DECEMBER 1949

announcing the changes, said, ‘Dr.
Grace rendered outstanding service in
his position of leadership in one of
our most important fields of activity.
He is to be congratulated on his
splendid achievements.”

Dr. Grace came to Germany in
May 1948 to assume the post of
director of the newly-organized
Education and Cultural Relations
Division of OMGUS. Previously he
had been commissioner of education
for the State of Connecticut for 10
years and had held important
educational positions at several uni-
versities in the United States,

Dr. Winning has served with the
occupation since the war, arriving in
Germany in 1945
with the Military
Government de-
tachment for
North Baden. He
became deputy
director of Mili-
tary Government
forWuerttemberg-
Baden in Septem-
ber of that year.
named director of the
Regional Government Coordinating
Office, the MG counterpart to the US
Zone German Council of States in
Stuttgart, serving until its phasing
out in May 1948. He was appointed
director of the Education and Cultural
Affairs Division, OMG Bavaria, con-
tinuing in that position until the
HICOG reorganization.

Before the war, Dr. Winning had
been a professor for 25 years at New
York University and was active as an
explorer, having discovered the “Cave
of the Decapitated Mummies” in the
Colorado River gorge.

He was

* * *

Hannaman Takes New Post
Forrest S. Hannaman has been
appointed chief of the Legal Advice
Division, Office of General Counsel,
HICOG. He has been associated with
Military Government since the closing
days of the war, mostly in the Eco-
nomics Division, where he served as
general counsel. From Aug. 1, 1949,
until the office was merged with the
HICOG organization, he was acting
economics adviser of OMGUS.

53

Swope Named DPD Chief

Guy J. Swope, former member of
the US House of Representatives from
Pennsylvania, has been appointed
special assistant to the US High Com-
missioner incharge ofrefugee problems
and chief of the Displaced Populations
Division, Office of Political Affairs,
HICOG.

Mr. Swope was appointed governor
of Puerto Rico in 1941 and later became
director of territories for the Depart-
ment of the Interior. Serving with
the US Navy as a commander during
the war, he was deputy military
governor of Saipan in 1944 and served
as chief of the Legislative Division on
General Douglas MacArthur's staff in
Tokyo from 1945 to 1948.

* * ae

Adviser on Jewish Affairs

Major Abraham S, Hyman has been
appointed acting adviser to succeed
Harry Greenstein as adviser on Jew-
ish affairs to the Office of the US
High Commissioner for Germany, His
appointment will continue until the
end of this year when the position is
scheduled to be phased out.

Major Hyman had been assistant
adviser on Jew-
ish Affairs since
August of 1946,
serving succes-
sively during
the past three
years under Rab-
bi Phillip Bern-

stein, Judge
Louis E, Leven-
thal, Dr. Wil-

liam Habor and
Mr. Greenstein.
Entering the Army as an enlisted man
in 1942, Major Hyman was commis-
sioned in the field artillery in Febru-
ary 1942. He was with the Judge Ad-
vocate's Division, European Theater,
from October 1944 until he became
assistant adviser on Jewish affairs.

Mr. Greenstein had been appointed
Jewish affairs adviser to General Lu-
cius D. Clay on Feb. 15, 1949, when
there were an estimated 70,000 Jewish
displaced persons in 49 camps through-
out the US Zone. Mr. Greenstein as-
sisted in arranging for emigration of
58,000 displaced persons who were
settled mainly in Israel and the United

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 58 ---
States. At present there remain six DP
camps in the US Zone with a combined
population of approximately 12,000.
Another major development during
Mr. Greenstein's service in Germany
‘was approval by US authorities of the
General Claims Law under which the
survivors and widows and dependents
of Nazi persecution in concentration
camps will receive indemnity pay-

ments and compensation for loss of ~

property and other economic damages.
Mr. Greenstein has returned to his
home in Baltimore, Md., to resume his
position as executive director of the
Jewish Charities and Welfare Fund,

kK * xX
New Advisory Board Set Up

A new advisory board, composed
of representatives of offices and
divisions largely concerned with
HICOG's reorientation program, has
been established by the Exchanges
Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, to replace the former Inter-
divisional Reorientation Committee
under OMGUS,

Pointing out that the new board was
set up to advise the staff of the
Exchanges Division on all phases of
its exchange program, Dr. R. A. Burns,
chief of the division, said, “This is in
every sense an advisory board. We
want it to be in a position to advise
us on staff actions. I also wish to
emphasize that we will at all times

welcome representatives of other
interested divisions.”

The Exchanges Division, it was
pointed out, conducts the entire

exchanges program, including the
exchange of individuals and materials.
In addition, it is responsible for pro-
gram planning, and evaluation and
budgeting of the complete reorien-
tation program, except for the infor-
mation projects of the Information
Services Division,

KK xk
EUCOM Announces Changes

Recent changes announced by the
European Command headquarters in
Heidelberg of US Army personnel in
Germany included:

Col. Wade M. Fleischer, chief of the
War Crimes Branch, Judge Advocate
Division, EUCOM, returned to Wash-
ington for assignment in the Office

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of the Secretary of the Air Force. He
was succeeded by Col. Robert
C. Chandler, former staff judge advo-
cate of the US Military Academy,

Col. Edward V. Macatee, formerly
chief of the Supply Branch, EUCOM
Quartermaster Division, was assigned
as commanding officer of the Quarter-
master Depot in Munich, succeeding
Col..Samuel W. Smithers, who was
recently recalled to Washington to
serve on the Munitions Board.

Col, Harold E, Egan relinquished his
Post as EUCOM chief veterinarian
with plans to retire this month after
more than 30 years with the Veterin-
ary Corps of the US Army. He was
succeeded at the EUCOM post by Col.
Jacob L. Hartman, who until recently
was stationed at Fort Meade, Md., as
veterinarian of the Second Army,

* * *
Heads OLCB's Political Affairs

James A. Clark has been named
acting chief of the Political Affairs
Division, OLC Bavaria, to fill the va-
cancy caused by the recent death of
Albert C. Schweitzer after an auto-
mobile accident.

Mr. Clark has been in US informa-
tional service since 1942, when he join-
ed the Office of War Information. He
was with the Psychological Warfare
Battalion which landed with the 5th
US Army at Salerno, Italy, in Septem-
ber 1943 and later served with the 7th
Army in southern France,

Joining Military Government in Ger-
many after the war, he was deputy
director of the Information Control
Division, USFET until May 1946 when
he went to Munich as deputy chief
of OMGB’s division. He became chief
in December 1947. During the HICOG
reorganization this summer, he con-
tinued as chief of the OLCB’s In-
formation Services Branch,

William. P, Dubenksy was named
acting chief of the Information Ser-
vices Branch in addition to his duties
as chief of ISB’s Film Section.

* * *

New Editor of HEUTE

Arthur Reef has been appointed
publisher and_ editor-in-chief of
HEUTE, German-language pictorial
magazine published by HICOG.

Mr. Reef, until his appointment to
the HEUTE position had been chief

54

of Information Services Division in
Hesse for a year and a half. He came
to Hesse from Korea where he was
director of the US Military Govern-
ment's overt informational opera-
tions. Mr. Reef was formerly manag-
ing editor of Parade, a Sunday pic-
ture magazine circulated throughout
the United States. He has also con-
tributed widely to picture magazines
in the United States, Switzerland,
France, Belgium and England.

Warren Trabant, who has edited
HEUTE for the last two years, is re-
turning to the United States.

* * *

Attends Recreation Conference

Austin J. Welch, head of the Com-
munity Recreation and Leadership
Section, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, attended the International
Conference on Recreation in Geneva,
Switzerland, early in November. The
conference was called by the Inter-
national Labor Office of the United
Nations to discuss important prob-
lems in the field of leisure-time ac-
tivities,

* * *

Postal Official Visitor

Vincent Waters, executive officer
of the US Post Office Department,
conferred in late October with HICOG
and West German communications
officials on postal matters between
United States and western Germany.
The discussions centered around
means of expediting the heavy ship-
ments of US gift relief parcels to
Germany and the exchange of mail
between the two countries,

* * *

Law Expert Makes Tour

Dr. Quincy Wright, professor of in-
ternational law at the University of
Chicago and president of the Amer-
ican Political Science Association,
made a two-week tour of Germany in
October as visiting expert for the
Office of the General Counsel, HICOG,
Dr. Wright talked to members of the
German bench and bar in Berlin,
Munich and Stuttgart on “International
Law and the United States.” He also
participated in HICOG-sponsored law
interneegé training courses in Bavaria
and Hesse.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 59 ---
Occupation Log

This section is compiled from adaptations of official reports, announcements and
statements of HICOG, Allied High Commission, Allied headquarters, EUCOM and sub-

ordinate occupation organizations,

public-relations

releases, excerpts from other

occupation publications, and information from authoritative German sources.

Germans Know of ECA Aid

Germans are generally aware that
Germany is receiving economic
assistance from the United States.
A large majority of the residents of
the US Zone and the western sectors
of Berlin feel that economic conditions
have improved in western Germany
in the past year, principally because
of currency reform and foreign aid.

These facts are revealed in a
survey recently conducted by the
Information Services Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, of know-
ledge and opinion of Marshall Plan
aid and related issues. A represen-
tative cross-section of residents of
the US Zone, including Bremen, and
western Berlin was interviewed.

Clearly showing that newspaper
and radio coverage of the European
Recovery Program and its results
have been effective, the survey
discloses that seven out of ten Ger-
mans are aware of the US aid, and
that foreign aid ranks second to
currency reform as a_ voluntarily
stated reason for the economic im-
provement of the past year.

In answer to the question, “Can
you tell me what this plan is gene-
rally called?'', 63 percent of the in-
terviewed western Berliners correctly
identified this aid as Marshall Plan,
ECA or ERP. Wuerttemberg-Baden
residents follow closely at 62 percent.
Other scores on the same question
are 51 percent for Hesse, 50 for
Bavaria and 58 for Bremen.

Awareness that western Germany
and Berlin are receiving Marshall
Plan aid ranges from 56 percent to
74 percent of the population. Among
those who are aware of ERP, the
majority know that Russia is not
included, for the reason that the
Russians do not want to participate.

Marshall Plan aid is generally
regarded as favorable, according to
the survey's findings. A minority—29

DECEMBER 1949

percent—feels that the United States
is using economic aid to influence
the political and commercial life of
western Germany, but 45 percent
think otherwise. Few of those inter-
viewed are of the opinion, however,
that the assistance is given uncon-
ditionally.

The survey indicates that the
majority of Germans in the US oc-
cupied areas believe the US military
aid program does not affect the eco-
nomic recovery program, Preponder-
ant opinion among those who see a
connection between the two programs
is that increased economic aid will
result from the arms aid program.

Influx of Refugees Heavy
Housing facilities in Berlin's western
sectors for refugees flooding into the
city from political and economic op-
pression in eastern Europe are crowd-

Seis

ed to overflow and a serious winter
situation -faces welfare authorities, it
was disclosed by officials of Welfare
Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG.

An average of some 400 refugees
arrives weekly in the west sectors of
Berlin. Though this figure is some-
what less than the weekly average
during the past spring and summer,
it represents a serious burden on wel-
fare facilities available to care for
them.

During the first six months of 1949,
a total of 16,765 refugees arrived in
the western sectors from the east, an
average of nearly 650 a week. During
the warm summer months the average
increased as weather conditions en-
couraged travel,

Both Allied authorities and German
officials are concerned about the con-
tinued heavy influx of refugees be-
cause of inadequate housing and
health facilities. There are few pos-
sibilities for incoming refugees to go
on to the western zones, and a great
proportion of them are forced to re-
main in Berlin.

Although a great number of re-
fugees arriving in Berlin are legi-
timate victims of economic or poli-
tical oppression in eastern Europe,

RR 2

Girls of Wiesbaden Air Base German Youth Activities Club gaily pack para-

chutes, caridy bars and shmoos which were dropped in October by a B-17
Flying Fortress to children in DP camps and in eight German cities by Capt.
Eugene T. Williams, the “Bonbon Bomber." Eight US cities—New Prague, Minn.,
Portland, Ore., Long Beach, Calif., Milwaukee, Wis., Hillside, N. J., Wichita, Kan.,
Cleveland, O., and Chicopee, Mass.—sponsored the candy bombardments, a
form of giving introduced by USAFE during the Berlin blockade. (USAFE photo)

55

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 60 ---
“There is evident in my own country and elsewhere
a readiness to welcome back into the family of nations
a Germany dedicated to the cause of peace and demo-

cracy,” Ralph Nicholson, director of the Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, said at the opening Oct. 26 of
a new US Information Center in the historic univer-
sity city of Marburg.

Germans could again become good neighbors in the
world community of nations, Mr. Nicholson said, just
as German emigrants were good neighbors back in
his Indiana home town. He said that the US Infor-
mation Centers “will contribute greatly to breaking
down barriers of mistrust, suspicion and intolerance
which are the real roots of international conflict.”

E. K. Neumann, chief of the Public Affairs Division,
OLC Hesse; Theodor Bleek, mayor of Marburg, and
Prof. Gerhard Albrecht, president of Marburg Uni-
versity, also participated in the opening ceremonies
of the new center.

Following the opening ceremonies, some 300 Amer-
ican and German visitors toured the facilities of the
new “Amerika Haus.” L. to r. in photo are Mr.
Nicholson, Mrs. Patricia Van Delden, Information Cen-
ters chief, HICOG, and Mr. Neumann. (PRB, OLCH photo)

some of them are turned back by the jn
Refugee Office because they are

Germany
462,750 books,

its lie to include the alleged
arrest of three further Amer-
icans and a German accoun-
tant.

US officials of Berlin Ele-
ment pointed out that none
of the six Americans named
in the ADN report exists.
No arrests have been made
for counterfeiting. And the
entire story is without foun-
dation whatsoever.

One official branded the
ADN story as “a sinister but
worthless attempt to lower
the value in Berlin of the
Deutsche mark by falsely re-
porting the presence of mil-
lions of counterfeit notes.”
The Deutsche mark remains
a strong currency in Berlin,
worth more than six times
the East mark.

Institute Given Books
Forty-two cases of donated
books were shipped recent-
ly to the library of the new
Institute of American Affairs
at the University of Munich
from the Materials Exchange
Branch warehouse in Bad
Nauheim. This shipment
raised the total distribution
since February to
according to the

suspected political agents and not
genuine refugees,

Mark Story from East Flops

A clumsy and obvious East Sector
effort to undermine faith in the
Deutsche mark and to lower its
exchange rate in relation to the So-
viet-sponsored East mark was exposed
by officials of Berlin Element, HICOG.

ADN, the Soviet-sponsored news
agency, ‘carried in mid-October a
report that three Americans had been
apprehended in Berlin's US Sector
counterfeiting millions of 5, 20 and
100 mark notes, The _ story was
dutifully carried in the Taegliche
Rundschau and Berliner Zeitung, two
official Soviet mewspapers in Ger-
man. Having failed to discredit the
Deutsche mark or ito create a scare
in the West sectors, ADN expanded

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Exchanges Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG,

The books and peridocals donated
under this program are collected by
groups and individuals in the United
States, according to Mrs. Ethel Elliot,
materials exchange specialist. ‘We
accept materials that give a true
picture of the United States, the
American people and American
ideals,"’ she said,

Outstanding among American con-
tributors is the Darien (Conn.) Book
Aid Plan, founded by Mrs. Gordon
Lamont, The Darien group collects,
screens and packs books and periodi-
cals and ships them to New York
port of embarkation. The Army has
transported all book donations de-
signated for the Materials Exchange
Branch to Bremerhaven.

56

US Aid to Teaching

A growing appreciation of the
wealth of educational materials offer-
ed by US Information Center libraries,
in addition to the professional teach-
ing materials of the US education
service centers, is being shown by
German schools, according to Mrs.
Patricia Van Delden, chief of the In-
formation Centers Branch, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

In numerous instances, following
the opening of the school year, schools
have asked the Information Center in
their community to supplement their
curricula with lecture and film pro-
grams, Mrs, Van Delden pointed out.
In other instances, teachers have’
brought their classes to an Informa-
tion Center or one of its reading
rooms in order to utilize the facilities.

Discussing the support given to
schools, individual teachers and
students, Mrs, Van Delden declared
that wherever possible educational
and youth activities are coordinated
by the Information Centers with the
schools and adult education admi-
nistrations.

The September report of the acti-
vities of the 24 Information Centers in
the American-occupied area of Ger-
many shows that 196,604 persons
attended the special events arranged
by center directors. These include
lectures, appearances of guest artists
and discussion groups. September
attendance at the 121 reading rooms
maintained by the Information Cen-
ters totaled 417,752; book circulation
reached 309,075 for the month; and
readers’ cards increased by 24,469.

Popular demand for specific books
does not differ from that of any cross-
section of an American reading public,
the September report commented, the
only variant being the time of avail-
ability rather than the date of publica-
tion, Most popular titles for the month
were Margaret Mitchell's “Gone with
the Wind,” Victor Kravchenko’s “I
Chose Freedom,” and Thomas Mann's
“Faustus.”’

Radio Reporting Scores

The effectiveness of Radio Bremen
broadcasts even outside the limits
of Bremen state was demonstrated
recently when German listeners in
Oldenburg and Emden identified and

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 61 ---
secured the arrest of two criminals
shortly after their descriptions had
been put on the air in a Radio Bre-
men local news roundup.

In both instances, Mr. Alex Saron,
chief of the Radio Branch, Public
Affairs Division, OLC Bremen, ex-
plained, the descriptions of the ac-
cused were immediately reported by
German police to Radio Bremen,
despite the fact that both incidents
occured well outside of the state.
The arrest of the two criminals, one
of whom was apprehended within
one hour after the broadcast of
his description, stresses the value of
community reporting which Radio
Bremen has always emphasized.

Freedom of Import Trade

Thirty percent of Germany's nor-
mal import trade with western Eu-
ropean countries in 1949 will be free
from any quantitative restrictions,
according to schedules submitted by
the German delegation to the Or-
ganization for European Economic
Cooperation in Paris (OEEC).

According to figures prepared by
the Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, an estimated $827,500,000
will be spent for all imports from
OEEC countries during 1949.

Of this amount, $264,000,000 will be
for commodities for which quanti-
tative restrictions have been entirely
abolished. It was pointed out that no
limits on quantity will be imposed,
although the total amount earmarked
for these imports will be allocated by
the Import Advisory Committee. An-
other $147,000,000, or 22 percent of
the total, will go for commodities for
which global import quotas have
been drawn up for OEEC member
countries,

In addition, imports for $117,000,000
worth of goods are to be liberalized
by negotiations. The balance of the
$827,500,000 total is covered by certain
strategic commodities imported under
allocations, food and agriculture items
listed in trade agreements, and cer-
tain other items.

New Community Committees
Forming of community committees

in the five Wuerttemberg-Baden de-

monstration counties—Aalon, Heidel-

DECEMBER 1949

berg, Backnang, Crailsheim and
Buchen—is underway as part of the
extension program designed to en-
large activities during the winter
months.

“Extension programs need _ the
support and cooperation of the people
in the communities and it is through
community committees that we can
find out what the most pressing prob-
lems are, and we can also obtain
their assistance in developing a really
progressive extension program,’ said
Dr. Hans Rheinwald, director of the
Agricultural and Home Economics
Extension Demonstration Program in
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Miss Marie C, Doerman, home
economics extension specialist, and
James F, Keim, agricultural specialist
attached to the W-B Office of the
State Commissioner, said this program
would be a valuable means of bring-
ing directly to the farm folks of
Wuerttemberg-Baden new ideas and
methods that would:be helpful to the
farm families, in the solution of their
problems of the farm and the home.

Berlin Shipments Tripled

Average monthly industrial freight
shipments from West Berlin to the
west of Germany have nearly tripled
in value since the end of the blockade
in May.

During September, all postwar re-
cords were broken when West Berlin
exported goods totalling DM 58,700,000
($13,970,600) to the west. Other post-
blockade monthly figures are:—May,
DM 42,700,000; June, DM 36,400 000;

July, DM 42,600,000; August, DM
50,400,000,
Air-lifted industrial freight to

western Germany during the 10-month
Soviet blockade of Berlin averaged
DM 17,400,000 ($4,151,200) in value
per month. These figures were based
on German Economic Commission

To better education in German schools,
NAB radios were presented to school
children and teachers by Sam H. Linch,
deputy director, Exchange Division,
HICOG, at the second Nuremberg
conference for education by radio
and film, sponsored by the German
society for education, held at the
Palace of Justice, where the War
Crimes trials were held. (US Army photo)

57

lists of interzonal trade permits. Much
of the export consists of high quality
electrical and engineering equipment
in the west sectors.

ECA Funds Allotted

The second allotment of Marshall
Plan funds for the 1949/50 fiscal year
programs of participating countries
totaled $1,323,800,600, of which the
Trizone of Germany was _ allotted
$127,000,000.

The allotments, which were com-
puted to permit the establishment of
a $150,000,000 reserve fund, brings
the total amount allotted in this fiscal
year to $2,456,500,000, almost two-
thirds of the total amount available
for the 12-month period ending June
30, 1950.

The Economic Cooperation Ad-
ministration stated that the majority
of the funds were being allotted early
in the year to permit the issuance of
procurement authorizations well in
advance of actual procurement by the
participating countries and to give
American sellers a better opportunity
of supplying commodities under the
Marshall Plan.

The reserve fund has been estab-
lished to assist Marshall Plan coun-
tries in three ways:

1. To promote the most rapid
possible liberalization of intra-Eu-
ropean trade and payments by pro-
viding a safeguard against certain un-

foreseeable risks involved in mea-

sures of liberalization,
2. To help finance intra-European
improvement projects which cross na-

--- Page 62 ---
tional frontiers and would not other-
wise be undertaken by countries in-
dividually,

3. To finance projects for develop-
ment of overseas territories of the
countries participating in the Eu-
ropean recovery program.

Short-Term Credits Increase

Hessians are steadily demanding
increased short-term credits at Hesse’s
banking institutions, according to
Donald S. Spigler, finance branch chief,
OLC Hesse, who attributed the in-
creased demand to expanding in-
dustrial and business activity. He also
stated that applicants were not having
any apparent difficulty in obtaining
the short-term loans,

Short-term credits granted business-
men in August totaled more than DM
605,000,000 ($143,990,000), a seven per-
cent increase over July and a 16 per-
cent increase over June. According to
Spigler, the increases were based
largely on the financing of export
transactions,

Preliminary figures for September
indicated a continuance of the trend,
with a sharp increase in the volume
of larger loans, Fourteen loans in ex-
cess of DM 1,000,000 ($238,000) and
90 in excess of DM 100,000 were
granted.

The building trades, food processing
plants, paper manufacturers, chemicat
preducers, textile firms, iron and steel
concerns and electric power plants
were the principal beneficiaries.

Representative Melvin Price, (D-IIl.) left,

Property Restitution in Berlin

A restitution agency has been set
up in the western sectors of Berlin
to receive judge claims, nearly 20,000
of which have been filed, for the re-
turn of property to victims of Nazi
oppression.

The new agency. operating through
five sections appointed by the city
council, will attempt to make amicable
settlements between claimants and
restitutors. In the event of dis-
agreement appeals may be filed with
one of the two restitution chambers
also established in the western sectors.

The creation of the restitution
agency and chambers follows a Kom-
mandatura order providing for the
restoration of identifiable property to
victims of Nazi oppression, Claimants
and restitutors are granted a two-
month period by the legislation—
following their notification that claims
have been filed—in which to answer
the agency before the cases are
heard.

All petitions for restitution must be
filed before midnight, June 30, 1950.
Forms on which to file claims may be
obtained from the Central Filing
Agency for Berlin at 53/55 Nuern-
berger Strasse, Berlin W-30, and
claims will be handled in the order
of their presentation to the Central
Filing Agency.

New Houses in Rural Hesse
Despite the fact that rural Hesse
was not hit as hard as urban areas

and Maj. Gen. James D, McIntyre,

Rhine-Main Air Base from Washington Nov.3 to survey Army and Air Force
installations, They were welcomed to Germany by Brig. Gen. Robert H. Har-

per (right) of the Air Force's legislative division.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(US Amy photo)

58

by the destruction of war, country
communities are displaying a greater
eagerness to reconstruct, according to
Stanley H. Sisson, economic affairs
chief, OLC Hesse.

Of 100 building permits recently
granted in Hesse, only 26 were issued
for construction in cities. Records in-
dicate that the cities are concentrat-
ing on industrial repair, while rural
Hesse is making an attempt to im-
prove housing.

August, a peak month in the build-
ing field, showed 1,700 building li-
censes granted for homes and less
than 1,600 for other buildings, More
than 50 percent of the permits issued
were for new construction.

Free U Gets Slavic Collection

The Free University of Berlin has
added a Slavic collection of some
6,500 volumes to its library facilities,
which now contain more than 125,000
books for study and reference by its
5,000 enrolled students.

The new library, housed in the
Slavic seminar in Berlin-Dahlem, was
purchased from the widow of the late
Prof. Erich Berneker of Munich Uni-
versity. The Free University now has
one of the largest and most valuable
libraries of Slavic literature in western
Europe.

The Slavic library contains 4,500
catalogued titles concerning all Bal-
kan languages and literature, maga-
zines, dictionaries and other publica-
tions. The volumes were brought from
Munich to Berlin by US military train
on Nov. 1,

US Patrolmen Save Village

Two members of the EUCOM
Highway Patrol’ are credited with
saving most of a German village
from destruction by a raging fire
during the night of Oct, 23. Prompt
action by the patrolmen in summon-
ing help made it possible to confine
the blaze, fanned by high winds, to
two houses and a barn.

Manuel De La Garza and Pfc.
Chester Kapco of the Marburg de-
tachment saw the fire at 9:30 p. m.
in Schrack, a village of 800 popu-
lation five miles from Marburg. When

* See “EUCOM Highway Patrol" in In-
formation Bulletin, Issue No. 1.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 63 ---
they arrived at the scene, the fire
already had spread to two houses
and a barn. A German fire company
was unable to act because no water
was available. Reporting by two-way
patrol car radio, they quickly sum-
moned a 300-gallon pump truck from
the EUCOM fire company at Mar-
burg.

In the meantime, the two patrolmen
drove to their Marburg headquarters
and collected eight large fire ex-
tinguishers and volunteers to help
fight the fire. The pump truck made
repeated trips for water and the
combined efforts of the fire com-
pany and the patrolmen succeeded
in confining the blaze to the three
buildings,

Loss through the fire, estimated at
DM 100,000 ($23,800) by the chief of
state criminal police of Hesse, in-
cluded the three buildings, stores of
grain, two cows, two calves, eight
wagons and a threshing machine.
Villagers praised the highway pa-
trolmen, declaring the prevailing
storm certainly would have caused
‘the fire to spread to the rest of the
village had help not arrived.

US Campaign for GYA Help

A campaign to acquaint the Amer-
ican public with the German Youth
Activities program carried on in
Germany by EUCOM personnel will
start soon in the United States under
the auspices of the General Clay
Fund for German Children, officials
of GYA have been informed.

A committee of sponsors headed
by Mrs. Jouett Shouse of Boston and
Washington, has been named to help
conduct a drive to raise funds to
purchase and send through CARE
enough materials to keep GYA
handicraft programs operating
throughout the winter. Mrs. Shouse
returned recently to Washington to
organize the fund project after she
had spent three months touring
GYA centers in Germany.

In emphasizing the importance of
the “new and healthy values” that
German youngsters are learning
under the GYA program, Mrs. Shouse
has been telling groups in America
of the great need for materials and
supplies for distribution in Germany.

DECEMBER 1949

“The 300 GYA centers
serve as meeting places
where German children ofall
backgrounds can learn de-
mocracy in action through
discussion forums, team
games and_ handicraft,"
she said.

Berlin's Health Good

Health conditions in
western Berlin are increas-
ingly favorable while the
welfare situation remains
acute, Wilmer Freistadt,
HICOG'S Berlin Element
health and welfare officer
said in an AFN radio inter-
view Nov. 4, declaring the
health conditions at the
outset of winter were “in
general very good.. better
than at any time since the
end of the war.”

The only negative aspect
of the health picture, he
said, was the continued
high incidence of tubercu-
losis. Seventeen out of
every 10,000 people in
Berlin suffer from the di-
sease today, while the pre-
World War II proportion
was only eight in 10,000.

Welfare conditions, however, re-
main acute, Mr. Freistadt said. The
effects of the 11-month Soviet block-
ade have not yet been erased from
the economic field, and welfare
facilities in the western sectors are
crowded and overburdened. An
abnormally high number of persons
are drawing unemployment com-
pensation, social insurance or relief
payments from official or private
agencies, This condition, he declared,
should be gradually overcome as
the city's economic health is restored
with outside and self-help.

Fugitives Disavow Politics

More than 50 percent of all illegal
border infiltrees, fleeing from the
Soviet Zone into Hesse, do not be-
long to a political party, according
to OLCH public welfare officials.

A survey taken of almost 400
recent infiltrees accepted at the

59

US Berlin commander.

French troops in Berlin paraded Oct. 29 in honor
of Maj. Gen. William E. Hall (left), EUCOM
director of intelligence, who was presented by
Maj. Gen. Jean Ganeval, French CO, Berlin,
with the Croix de Guerre with palms for wartime
assistance to the French during the Italian cam-
paign. At right is Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor,

(US Army photo)

Giessen Refugee Center disclosed
that 55 percent have no political
affiliation, 22 percent are Socialists,
14 percent belong to the Free Demo-
cratic Party, and nine percent to
the Christian Democratic Union,

The survey showed that 70 percent
of the people fleeing the eastern
regime are men and 30 percent
women; 37 percent are workers, 20
percent merchants, four percent po-
lice officials, another four percent
teachers, and two percent students.
The balance belong to miscellaneous
classifications.

Better Fresh Food Service

A European market center system
with field buying offices in Rome
and Paris has been set up by the
EUCOM Quartermaster Division to
facilitate the purchase of approxima-
tely $1,500,000 of fresh fruits, vege-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 64 ---
tables and other perishable products
monthly.

The system is patterned after a
similar one established by the Quar-
termaster General in the United
States at the outset of World War II.
The Rome market center will procure
perishables from Italy, Sicily, Corsica
and countries in eastern North Africa.
The Paris center will purchase foods
from Spain, Holland, Belgium, England
and North African countries as well
as from France itself. The new offices
began operations in November.

Produce from Switzerland, Denmark,
Norway and Sweden will continue to
be bought by Giessen QM Depot.
Establishment of the Rome and Paris
centers is aimed to speed up

Judges selecting a Christmas cover for the Hessian
youth magazine “Wir alle’ awarded top honors
at Wiesbaden Nov. 4 to 10-year-old prodigy
Klaus Hell. L, to r. above are Victoria Noonan;
Margot Ortlieb, Wiesbaden painter; E, K. Neu-
mann, Public Affairs chief for OLC Hesse; Heinz
Soell, art editor of the magazine, and Alo Altripp,

painter, who served as judges.

deliveries of high quality fresh pro-
duce to the five Quartermaster cold
stores in Germany by eliminating the
present two-month delay between the
signing of a contract and actual
delivery of the foodstuffs to Germany.

Crime Declines in Berlin

The crime rate in the US Sector of
Berlin so far during 1949 has de-
creased by more than a third com-
pared with similar periods during
1947/48. The steady and marked down-
ward trend of crime statistics is
attributable to improved facilities and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(PRB, OLCH photo)

greater efficiency on the part’ of the
police, to a gradual betterment of
economic conditions and the trend
towards normalcy in all spheres of
the city’s life since the lifting of the
unsuccessful Soviet blockade on May
12, 1949.

For the five-month period after the
blockade through September 1949,
US Sector crime statistics show a
decline of six percent from those of
a similar period during the blockade,
and a decline of 44 percent from those
of a similar period before the blockade.
Overall crimes and offenses known
to the police in the US Sector, Jan-
uary-September,. 1949 total 25,437.
Figures for a parallel period during
1948 totaled 40,282; for 1947, 40,289;

and for 1946, 15,993.

Public Safety officials of
HICOG's Berlin Element at-
tribute the decrease in large
part to the institution of
two-way radiocars in the US
Sector in April 1948. By
October 1948 there were 50
such cars patrolling Amer-
ican sector streets,

Moreover, since the split
of the city police department
in July 1948, a greater co-
ordination of activities has
been possible between the
police presidium and the lo-
cal stations. The disrupting
tactics and the general in-
efficiency of Soviet trained
police is no longer felt.

Polio Victims Aided

Infantile paralysis cases
from the East Sector of Ber-
lin and East Zone of Germany are
being brought to west sector hospitals
in Berlin and left there without any
provision made for their care, ac-
cording to US public health officials
to Berlin Element, HICOG.

At present five iron lung cases from
areas around Leipzig (Soviet Zone),
where a very high incidence of po-
liomyelitis has been reported, are
being treated in West sector hospitals.
These patients were brought by truck
from Leipzig in a condition of ex-
treme exhaustion and simply were
left at West sector hospitals without

60

any arrangements being made by
East Zone authorities for their care.

Delivery of east sector and east
zone patients to West sector hospitals
is not an unusual occurrence, Berlin
public health officials point out.
There apparently are no adequate
facilities in the Soviet Zone for treat-
ment of cases with respiratory invol-
vements.

Money Order Contributions

An estimated $50,000 was contribu-
ted in two months to West German
families by Americans through the
international postal money order ser-
vice, Communications Branch, Office
of Economic Affairs, HICOG an-
nounced,

The international money order ser-
vice between United States and West
Germany, including the three western
sectors of Berlin, was reestablished
July 1, after a 10-year lapse. Ar-
rangements for this service were
made between the US Post Office De-
partment and the Provisional Posts
and Telecommunications Commission
for the US, UK and French areas of
control. The United States-West Ger-
many service was reestablished on a
one-way basis, and limits the US
money orders to those of a personal,
family and charitable character,

During July $19,900 in US money
orders was sent to Western Germans
and Berliners. The month's total
climbed to $35,500 during August.

Mayor Bows to Townspeople

The town meeting is an innovation
introduced in Germany by the Ameri-
cans since the war altough it is
looked upon with a varying degree
of favor by local office holders who
find themselves called upon for public
accounting of their public acts. But
recently the mayor of a town in
Tirschenreuth County of Bavaria
learned that he can be taken to task
by the assembled citizens.

The incident occurred at an open
forum called by farmers and local
labor union officials to discuss a fair
price for potatoes.

During the heated discussions, the
mayor struck a labor official in the
face, The local townspeople demanded
the mayor's immediate removal. They

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 65 ---
threatened a county-wide strike if
the demand was not met.

Another town meeting was called
and the mayor offered a public apol-
ogy and a charity contribution. Trade
union officials rejected the offer, re-
questing the mayor to pay damages
to the victim of the attack, donate
DM 100 to the local workers welfare
fund, pay the transportation expenses
of labor officials to the meeting and
write an apology for publication in
the local newspaper.

The mayor agreed to these terms
and shook hands with the victim, The
meeting ended with the townspeople
expressing gratification for the accom-
plishment at a town meeting,

Cod Liver Oil for Children

Nearly 40,000 children and ex-
pectant and nursing mothers in
Berlin's western sectors are receiv-
ing special cod liver oil supplies
provided by the UN International
Children's Emergency Fund.

The distribution is being carried
out by children’s homes and three
west sector German welfare organiza-
tions with the guidance and under
observation of the western Allied
authorities in Berlin.

Operation Religion

Church attendance increased 174 per-
cent among American personnel of
the Munich Military Post during
October. A concentrated drive was
conducted throughout the month for
the purpose of fostering better attend-
ance at religious services.

The Catholic drive of the Munich
area was culminated with a Solemn
High Pontifical Mass, celebrated by
Cardinal Michael von Faulhaber for
the American personnel on Sunday,
Oct. 30, in the Frauenkirche, famous
twin-spired, war-damaged cathedral
of Munich, Approximately 1,500 Amer-
icans, including many military and
governmental leaders, and more than
300 Germans attended the service
which was broadcast over the Amer-
ican Forces Network.

Chaplain (Lt. Col.) Edward J. Burns
preached the sermon, admonishing his
listeners that “when the morals of all
nations become better, when all coun-
tries recognize their dependency upon

DECEMBER 1949

God, then only will we have peace
and happiness in this world—until
then we shall all live in terror of an-
other worldwide conflagration.” He
said, “the anwer to the conflicts in
the past and possible conflicts in the
future lies...in the understanding of
nations, of the moral obligations
which each possesses under the King-
ship of Christ.”

Teachers Take School Course

Under a British-sponsored exchange
program, four Germans from the
American Zone are attending the
Wilton Park, England, resident school
for the six-week period, Nov.3 to
Dec. 15, the Education and Cultural
Relations Division, HICOG, an-
nounced.

This is the 24th international short
course sponsored at Wilton Park. Each
course is for about 60 persons between
the ages of 25 and 35. Half of each
group is British, the remainder is
selected from other European coun-
tries, including Germany.

The four Germans from the Ameri-
can Zone who comprise the present
group are: Hermann Bauer, director
of the Volkshochschule (Adults' Night
School), Heidenheim; Alfred Czach,
teacher at the Kreuzberg Volkshoch-
schule, Berlin; Gerhard Nerlich,
currently translator for the Exchanges
Division, and Johannes Lellau, teacher
at the Rolandschule, Bremen.

The aim of the school, it was ex-
plained, is to stimulate a sense of
civic responsibility and to develop
democratic public opinion. Present-
day social and political problems are
studied under the direction of English,
Dutch and Swiss educators. The group
lives in the school dormitories, attends
classes, studies with tutors and con-
ducts informal discussions. The project
is financed entirely by the British
Government.

Exchange Procedures Revised

Revised procedures for the se-
lection of all Germans who are to
go to the United States under the
exchanges program provide that a
German state selection committee,
under the chairmanship of the OLC
Exchange Division officer, will make
initial recommendations, This means
that personnel for projects of all

61

HICOG divisions participating in the
program, will move through identical
selection procedure. Administration
of this program is to be entirely in
the hands of the Exchanges Division,
HICOG.

Details of the procedures are as
follows: Each state and the Berlin
sector will have a German exchanges
committee as well as a number of
special panels, representing the in-
terests of the offices participating in
the program.

The general function of the panels
will be to screen candidates for their
professional and/or academic com-
petence. The committee will be re-
sponsible for screening these can-
didates further on the basis of their
general character and their civic and
moral fitness as exchange persons.
Members of the committee, it was
explained, do not represent particular
groups, but are selected because they
are progressive and _ civic-minded

citizens,
A representative of the special
panel making the recommendation

will, in each case, sit with the com-
mittee when selections are made.
Final recommendation to the Ex-
changes Division must be given by
the HICOG office responsible for the
project in question. Application
blanks are now available to all inter-
ested persons at the county Resident
Offices throughout the US Zone.

Lecturer on Atomic Energy

Dr. David Bradley, medical expert
on atomic radioactivity and author
of the best seller No Place to Hide,”
spoke in recent weeks on atomic
energy and world order at US In-
formation Centers in Berlin, Heidel-
berg, Marburg, Goettingen, Erlangen
and Munich.

Dr. Bradley participated in the
Bikini atomic tests in 1946 and spent
five and a half months studying the
effects of radioactivity among animals
exposed to the atomic explosions.
The examinations at that time were
conducted by the Radiological Safety
Section, a new branch of public
health in the United States.

His best-selling book “No Place to
Hide“ is scheduled to be published
shortly in Germany. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 66 ---
Models, pictures, graphs and Statistics tell the story of the “So
Lives America“ Exhibition now touring cities of the US Zone.

Model of apartment house getting finishing
touches at Nuremberg studios last summer.

Tilt-up methods of construction and prefabricated
houses evoked the keenest interest, for many who
saw the Frankfurt Fair exhibit obviously felt that
by exchanging techniques and borrowing ideas,
Germany's numerous postwar housing problems
well may benefit from American housing experience.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 62 DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 67 ---
(So Lives America)

ERMANS ARE showing great interest and fascination

in a large exhibition, “So wohnt Amerika” (So Lives
America), being shown in western Germany. They closely
examine the hundreds of attractively-arrayed photographs,
designs and models illustrating the homes, furnishings and
surroundings of average American citizens.

Fifteen thousand spectators attended the exhibition
when it opened at the Frankfurt fair grounds in August.
“This one is so interesting and instructive," said the
Frankfurter Rundschau. “It teaches us how cheaply and
practically dwellings are built in America and should
lead to emulation here. The Allgemeine Zeitung of
Mainz, in the French Zone, commented, “America lives as
we would like to... We can learn much from it."

The exhibition was designed and created by the Ex-
hibitions Section of the Information Services Division,
OMGUS, for its August showing. Now it has been prepared
by the Visual Presentation Branch, Office of Administra-
tion, HICOG, for showing in other western German cities.

The exhibition shows the German public what kinds of
home Americans live in. It traces the development of
traditional types of American dwellings from log cabin
and covered wagon days to contemporary skyscraper
apartment houses and modern bungalows, and from New
England clapboard houses to the Southwest's adobes.

One section, devoted to one-family houses, shows tra-
ditional American methods of contruction and household
planning, with emphasis on kitchens and bathrooms. Other
sections give a comprehensive survey of American de-
velopments in the fields of prefabricated houses, trailers,
apartment houses, hotels, dormitories, camps, motels, dude
ranches and other vacation dwellings.

EIGHBORHOOD, community and city planning is

given emphasis through the use of models and color
diagrams, and there is a separate section on federal
housing projects. A special exhibit contrasts American and
German procedures in arranging the financing and the
permits required by a prospective homebuilder.

The exhibition includes approximately 650 large photo-
graphs and photo-murals; 150 illustrations; 150 decorated
and lettered mountings; more than 300 separate panels;
and eight models, one of which, showing the tilt-up method
of construction, is animated by a motor.

Manhattan Island (top) as it looked in 1650
under the British. Today (right) it has become
the world’s most famous “billion dollar” skyline.

(Continued on next page)

cat

——

SELGELEEREE.

SRE

o88

SREP ES wes ree:

eRe RS BEER

BS me is Be ak ow

EB RE da ok ww
BRE see

--- Page 68 ---
Es

oF et ya me we ee Se ot FF

The Waldorf-Astoria (above), Fifth Avenue apartment house (bélow,
left), built before 1914 and, right, the Shelton Hotel, all in New York.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Arlington, Virginia.

Modern house in Seattle, Wash.

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 69 ---
Portland war vet's home: cost $7,650.

This frontier settlement, pictured above as in covered wagon days, is now the
site ol the thriving city of Chicago, III. View below is of Michigan Boulevard.

Another Portland, Ore. home.

DECEMBER 1949 65 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 70 ---
ie bo

ee ee, «

Impressive modern apartment

building, complete with luxu-

tious penthouses, reaches 25
stories into the sky.

One-family homes are prefer-

ted. At right, typical post-

World War II group of semi-
detached houses.

A simple one-family residence outside Chicago,
away from big city smoke, grime and noises.

jalena, Il], home of Genera] Ulysses S,. Grant,
Civil War (1861 — 1865) hero and 18th President.

Springfield, Ill. home of Abraham Lincoln
(1809 — 1865) before he became 16th President.

--- Page 71 ---
An exquisitely beautiful country home

on the outskirts of Alexandria, V:

aes

The Hermitage, in Nashville, Tenn., the
home of Andrew Jackson, 7th president.

Classicism reaches deep into the
hinterland: This home, built in 1853,

is located in Racine, Wis.

This striking example of Roman

architecture was erected in

Chicago, III., some 60 years
ago — in 1888,

The many series of one-family

homes built during or since

World War II, include prefabri-
cated houses

--- Page 72 ---
German Editorials

HE EVENT of the month was the

visit of US Secretary of State Dean
Acheson, which the German press
unanimously welcomed. Editorials,
supplementing the widest front page
news coverage of Mr, Acheson's visits
with President Heuss and Chancellor
Adenauer at Bonn, stressed his state-
ment that it was the desire of the
United States and the other Western
Allies to help solve Germany’s many
difficult problems,

Typical was the Main Echo's
(Aschaffenburg, Bav., Nov. 14) head-
line: “America wants to help, but only
those who help themselves,”

During October and early Novem-
ber, editorial writers of Western Ger-
many extensively discussed dismantl-
ing, ever a subject close to German
hearts; new and further concessions
for the Federal Republic under the
Occupation Statute, for which many
papers systematically pressed; Aden-
auer's policy, which was both support-
ed and criticized, with his press
bureau coming in for condemnation
and lampooning over its “autocratic”
handling of an outraged press; Schu-
macher's (SPD) “declaration of war”
on Bonn; Berlin's economic plight and
aid for the former capital; the For-
eign Minister's Paris Conference, ECA
Chief Hoffman's “ultimatum” on Eu-

This section is compiled from a sum-
mary prepared by the Press & Publica-
tions Branch, Information Services Divi-
sion, HICOG, of editorials and reports
in the German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to portray
what the Germans are writing and think-
ing, and mot necessarily to give any
concurrence to their views and opinions,

Topean economic cooperation, which
most papers endorsed; rapprochement
with France, with arguments pro and
contra in the wake of Dr. Adenauer's
invitation to France to invest in Ger-
man industrial enterprises.

Dotted in between, however, were
frequent and often lengthy references
to developments in the wake of
establishment in eastern Berlin of the
Soviet-puppet East State. The concern
over this splitting of Germany and
the isolation behind the Iron Curtain
of some 18,000,000 Germans, was
deepfelt, and called forth a variety
of suggestions and demands on both
the Bonn government and the Western
Powers,

“No Mere Gesture”

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg,
Nov, 14)) referring to Mr. Acheson's
visit, said: “...We here in Germany
would like to read more than merely
a gesture into the fact that Mr.
Acheson did not leave Europe without

paying his respects to President Heuss
and the Federal Government. Mr.
Acheson is the foreign minister of
a country which we recognize as the
driving force behind every effort to
bring Germany forward, step by
step...

“There was a time between the two
world wars when many Americans
had lost practically all faith in Europe
and nothing made Roosevelt more
popular than the Neutrality Act,
which promised the American people
that they never again would be drawn
into Europe's endless quarrels...

“That American faith in Europe was
revived after World War II was one
of the most surprising consequences
of that war... Since then American
realism has found out how difficult
it is to get the Old World to move
in a new direction, but as yet it has
not let itself be discouraged... Our
hope on the occasion of the visit of
our American guest is that he will
take with away with him confirmation
of the American belief in us...”

Step by Step

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung (Fulda,
Hesse, Nov. 14) scrutinizes US-Soviet
relations and Germany's position be-
tween the two powers and considers
Mr. Acheson's visit as “a sign that
Germany represents one of the corner-
stones of American policy.”

In spite of the relaxation of tension
which may be observed in the cold
war, observed the paper, “it is
obvious that relations between Ameri-

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Oct. 30)

w»lapt doch auerst den Geldbrieftraeger abliefern . . «
“Wait till he delivers the money.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

(Echo der Woche, Munich, Oct. 28)

Komm, wenn wir xu aweit sind, beift er nicht

“Come on, he won't dare bite while I'm with you.”

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 73 ---
ca and Russia are driving to a
decision.”

Marshall Plan Aid

Der Volkswirt (Frankfurt, Nov. 11)
is pessimistic on “liberalization of
foreign trade’ as demanded by Mr.
Hoffman, until European national
selfishness abates: “...Unless West
Germany can be assured that importers
in the Western countries will be
permitted to import freely, liberal-
ization will remain dangerously one-
sided...

“American reasoning is based on
the belief that the successful operation
of a unified market among a popula-
tion of 180,000,000 in the USA can
be successfully duplicated with a
unified European market backed by
a 220,000,000 population. This premise
is correct provided the national
egoism of all European countries can
be successfully and unreservedly
consigned to limbo in the interest of
a well-organized European economy,
but not otherwise.”

East and West

The Europa Kurier (Aachen, NR-W,
Nov. 11) gives Stalin credit for forcing
the Western Powers to show more
understanding for German problems
and natural emotions, in these words:
“\..The message which Stalin’ sent
to the entire German people on the
inauguration of the East State... must
necessarily be attractive for every
German who did not learn his history
in the Third Reich or in the spiritually
perverted era of Allied ‘re-education’
which followed it...

“The first results may be seen at
the Paris conference. The initiative
shown there was forced by the
Kremlin. It will depend on the far-
sightedness of the foreign ministers
whether or not this meeting will lead
to the West regaining control of the
rudder which the East has wrested
from it...

“We really are of the impression
that the foreign ministers this time
are determined to act decisively...
If their measures succeed in replacing
the Germans’ present unwholesome
ersatz-nationalistic emotions with a
genuine feeling that they belong to
Europe, it will be the most effective
counter-move in the Allied defense
against the East...”

DECEMBER 1949

SPD on Warpath

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg,
Nov. 14) supports Dr. Adenauer's
offer of security guarantees to France,
but points to widespread opposition
among the German people: “...It
cannot be doubted that Dr. Schuma-
cher’s views in opposition to Dr. Aden-
auer’s proposals are popular in circles
much larger than merely the SPD.

The federal chancellor has risked un- ¢

in the ranks of
let alone the

popularity even
government parties,
extreme right...

“The situation is reminiscent of the
times before 1933, when the center
was crushed by combined opposition
of the left and right... Dr. Schuma-
cher avers that the German people
do not stand behind the Adenauer
proposals and that the SPD intends
to make this a cardinal issue in Ger-
man politics...

“He does not reject the idea of Eu-
ropean union, but considers equal
tights for Germany a_ prerequisite.
Adenauer too sees equal rights as
the principal aim, but he is a realist
and therefore recognizes the fact that
such equality can come to. pass only
at the end of the road rather than
at the beginning. We cannot imagine
that the majority of the German
people share Schumacher’s illusion.
Were this the case there would be
little hope that Germany will ever
attain the status in the world which
is our common goal.

“Patience is not capitulation, On
the contrary, it is more often a sign
of greatness rather than weakness...”

(Offenbach Post, Oct. 22)

»Nicht reinlassen... sagen Sie den Herren von
der Presse, sie bekaemen Ihre Informationen
durch die Tageszeitungen!«

Bonn and the Press
“Don't let them in. Tell the gentlemen
of the press they can get their in-
formation from the daily. papers.”

69

East State
Pres. Pieck and the Soviet boot.

US and Europe

Die Zeit (Hamburg, Nov. 10) in an
article headlined “Uncle Sam as
Pedagogue” considers it fortunate that
American “common sense" is in a
position to influence European union:
“...We may mock as much as we
like the American lack of tradition
and lighthearted tendency to over-
simplification, but we may: thank our
stars for American common sense and
the fact that conditions compel ug to
listen to it ... Uncle Sam is in the
position of the family patriarch who
treats his grown-up children with
fatherly generosity, but knows very
well that they are financially de-
pendent upon him and uses his power
to lead them along the road which
his experience has taught him is
best...

“And it seems that the children are
beginning to take heed But
America itself ig also at fault. Since
1913 it has built up an export surplus
of $100,000,000,000 ... Today its yearly
export surplus amounts to six to eight
billion ... A revived Europe will be
able to remain healthy only if America
lowers its tariffs ... and boosts its
own imports; this will help to remove
‘dollar shortages’ in Europe. Real
historic greatness lies not only in
teaching other nations, but also in
overcoming one’s own national
egoism...”

European Unity

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg,
Nov. 7) terms ECA Administrator
Hoffman’s statement* on European
unity an “ultimatum.”

“\..From the very beginning the
Americans have made it clear that

* See “Challenge to Europe,"’ page 43 of
this issue.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 74 ---
Marshall Plan help was nothing more
than their contribution to European
unity. They never intended to pour
out their money for nothing; they
wished thereby to establish a stability
which was not constantly disturbed
by eterna] European crises...

“But the Americans are dissatisfied
with European achievement in this
direction, and rightly so ... The Hoff-
man plan is not utopian ... Everyone
who is for Europe will welcome this
American pressure ... national and
European sensibilities must be dis-
regarded, We are not being black-

mailed ... Uncle Sam is speaking
for our good...
“Economic cooperation is not

enough, but it is the basis of every
culture and furnishes the foundation
on which the rest can be built...”

German Films

Die Rheinpfalz (Ludwigshafen, R-P.,
Nov. 9) in reporting that, according
to a “Filmpress" investigation, old
and new German films are being
traded in by obscure firms in South
America, the Near East, Canada,
Australia and some European coun-
tries, declares that it may be assumed
that copies of German films are
blackmarketed through Swiss, Nether-
lands and particularly Paris channels.

“Unfortunately, the lack of German
trade representation in foreign coun-
tries,” the paper says, “makes it im-
possible to exercise control over such
happenings. It is, therefore, urgently
requested that the federal government
be immediately enabled to establish
trade representation in order to
eliminate conditions which result in

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, Oct. 26)

aweis

(Muenchner Merkur, Oct. 29)

»Wir halten an Potsdam fest!

“We hold fast to the Potsdam agree-
ment.”

considerable financial losses to Ger-
many.”

“Most Insecure State”

The Heidelberger Tagblatt (Heidel-
berg, Nov. 9) carries an editorial
which expresses the view that no
country in the present political
situation is as insecure as Germany,
commenting “...We could increase
our security if we were to contribute
to the security of our state by means
of a German state.”

The paper adds, “...If the French
were to lose their feeling of insecurity,
our own security would accordingly
be greater.”

Gift Parcels

Die Zeit (Hamburg, Oct. 20) strongly
urges West Germans to flood the East
zone with gift packages, citing Allied
help for Germans in 1946 as an
example:

“...Our former enemies in England
and South Africa, but especially in
America, showed their sympathy with
our desperate situation by sending us
thousands of gift packages ... Now
that we are able to do so, we should

systematically and on a large scale
do the same for our Eastern
brethren...

“,..The SPD functionaries already
have branded such action as ‘dema-
gogic agitation,’ but political per-
secution can be circumvented if the
number of parcels is so great that
prosecution of the recipients is made
practically impossible ... Thus we
can do our part to save the Easterners
from despair, until such time as we
can once more restore al] Germans to
freedom and security under one roof.”

Austrian Elections

The Frankiurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt, Oct. 11) was brief, but pointed,
in commenting on the Austrian elec-
tions: “The Communist defeat may be
attributed to the fact that the Austrian
people have such good opportunities
to study the working of neighbor
‘People’s Democracies.’”

Democracy

Die Welt (Hamburg, Oct. 6) fears
present day Germany still is far from
real democratic thought and procedure:
“,,.To have a good democracy, good
democrats are required... A law may
come to pass by orthodox democratic
rules and still be a dictatorial, totali-
tarian law...Such, for instance, as
that recently passed by the Bundestag
(Federal Assembly) which prohibits
even any discussion outside parlia-
ment of a change in the national
colors...One might as well pass a
law banning discussion of the federal
chancellor ‘with a view to replacing

“Was it democratic when Dr.
Adenauer attempted to make the

(Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung, Oct. 11)

»Los Jungs — susammenruecken! Es kommt noch einer dasul<

“We're without a government again here in France,

while in Germany they have two!”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

70

East German State: “Move up, here's another one!"

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 75 ---
(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, Oct.

Die Geister, die alle rufen!

The ghosts that beset President Heuss’

slumbers: Unemployment; dismant-
ling; border changes; housing problem;
refugees; East-West relations, etc., etc.

question of selection of a national
capital subject to an administrative
government decision rather than to a
vote?... An when a man like Reimann
praises maintenance of the Oder-
Neisse line, scenes of tumult and calls
to order are not the appropriate
answer... Our public opinion should
‘call to order’ those of our politicians
who pursue power politics...

“A state which \shuts itself off from
its citizens is in danger of becoming
a dictatorship...A citizenry that
permits it is in danger of again
becoming its terrorized subjects...

“We must be constantly alert and
on the defensive against every en-
croachment by the state, against too
much statism, In the final analysis,
we shall get the state that we deserve."

Puppet State

With rare unanimity the West
German press reacted to the establish-
ment of the Soviet-sponsored East
State with intensified advocacy of the
“all-German standpoint,” which is
urged as the most pressing task of
the moment for Germans on both sides
of the zonal borders which now have
become state borders. Germany's divi-
sion is pictured as solely attributable
to “disharmony among the former
Allies which completely overrides
German wishes and susceptibilities.”
Some papers deplore German public
men having allowed themselves to be
used in the founding of separatist
states,

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung (Fulda,
Hesse, Oct.°9) urges German politi-
cians not to serve as tools of one or
the other of the Occupation. Powers:

DECEMBER 1949

“,,.We want a German policy, not
East German or West German, which,
in effect, is either a Russian or an
Anglo-American policy..."

The Nuernberger Nachrichten (Nu-
remberg, Bav., Oct. 9) warns: “Those
who look upon the formation of the
East State as a Russian bluff are self-
deceiving fools... The sovereign rights
granted the new government will be a
potent weapon in support of the East
‘State's claim to represent all of
Germany..."

The Esslinger Allgemeine Zeitung
(Esslingen, W-B, Oct, 8) believes that
“the Russians have not been discour-
aged by the many setbacks which their
German policy has suffered nor will
consideration for the Western world
make them give up that policy.” The
paper urges “official recognition of
the German Federal Republic in order
that it may have the protection of
international law" and that “an extra-
ordinary session of the Council of
Europe be called for the purpose of
making Germany a full member of the
European community.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart,
Oct. 9) is bitter: “...In the cause of
German unity it would be well that
neither East nor West (Germany) be
too closely identified with its respec-
tive Occupation Power, but merely
put up with its presence ...Devalua-
tion, etc. has shown us what we may
expect from the West...”

German Unity
Deutscher Kommentare (Heidelberg,
Oct. 10) says that in the final analysis
the goal of German unity can be
achieved only by the Germans them-
selves: “... As far as the rest of the
world is concerned, the
building of a. counter-
regime to Bonn on Mos-
cow's orders was received
with remarkable calm-
ness ... In Ottawa Mr.
Bevin spoke of German
partition as if it were to
be reckoned with as a per-
manently accepted fact
We Germans cannot
reconcile ourselves to
the same matter of fact
attitude on this subject
as an observer on. the
Thames... .
“It will not do to brush

1

off the so-called East State as a mere
tool of the Kremlin, not to be compared
with our democratically-born West
State... Nor can we take it for
granted that a good example will auto-
matically work wonders and ‘attract’
the people of the Soviet Zone. In other
words propaganda is not enough.
What the East Germans must have is
practical help, spiritual and material...

“It is by no means sure that the
Russians intend to follow the pattern
of the East-bloc governments in East
Germany... The recipe has not been
as successful as desired. There is
Titoism in other countries besides
Jugoslavia ... Apart from other older
examples, Spain had two governments
in 1937, Italy had two in 1943 and
China has two today ... In none of
these cases was one side able to gain
ascendancy without outside help, nor
was the solution found by peaceful
means...”

In the same issue Deutsche Kom-
mentare comments on a statement in
the New York Times regarding the
danger of a new Rapallo, i. e., an
agreement between Germany and
Russian at the expense of the West:
“... This will depend entirely on the
spirit in which the Occupation Statute
is applied...If, as the New York
Times itself describes it, the Allied
policy is aimed at convincing the
German majority, including those in
the Soviet Zone, that the best way to
the restoration of German unity is
the reconstruction of the three western
zones, there will be little temptation
on the part of the Germans to play
the Soviet Union against the Western
democracies." + END

(Bremer Nachrichten, Oct. 29)
a
ra

Fan eeu Qr

Nach dem Seifenkistenrennen der Jugendlichen findet jetst das Dezer-
nenten-Schreibtischrennen Frankfurt— Bonn (und surieck?) der reifen

Generation statt.

The Soap Box Derby.:°- '-
Between Frankfurt and Bonn

--- Page 76 ---
Books and Pamphlets

(Reviews prepared by Scrutiny Section, Press
and Publications Branch, Information Services
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG)
_, 1944 Invasion by Hangs Speidel. A
thesis on the fate of Rommel and the
Reich. Published by Reiner Wunder-
lich Verlag, Tuebingen and Stuttgart.

DR. HANS SPEIDEL was Chief of
Staff to Field Marshal Rommel in
1944 and was closely identified with
him during the Allied invasion of
France and the events that followed.

He gives an excellent picture of
Rommel as a human being and as a
commander of troops. He describes
how Rommel was originally fas-
cinated by Hitler, but soon began to
see through his fanaticism and ir-
responsibility.

The causes that led Rommel to
become an opponent of Hitler and
implicated him in the events of
July 20, 1944, are described in detail.

The fact that Rommel happened to
suffer a severe accident which made
him hors de combat at just that
critical period, is regarded by the
author as a fatal disaster in German
destiny.

In commenting on incidents on the
Western Front the writer makes
some interesting comparisons of Ger-
man and Allied conduct of war and
he repeatedly points out the great
advantage that accrued to the Allies
because of their much closer-knit
political and strategic coordination.

Balance of Power or Hegemony
("Gleichgewicht oder Hegemonie”)
by Ludwig Dehio. Observations on
basic problems of recent European
history. Published by Scherpe, Kre-
feld.

THIS WELL-KNOWN German his-
torian sketches in broad outline the
struggle of national states for domin-
ance in Europe which has lasted for
500 years and has caused continuous
warfare. °

The two world wars are pictured
as a belated attempt by Germany, the
last continental power, to achieve that
leadership of Europe for which Spain
and France struggled over the course
of centuries.

Seen in this light, Hither appears
as a kind of narcotic that intoxicated

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Schwaebische L itung, Augsburg, Oct. 24)

Das neueste Lieblingskind ...

East State
His newest pet.

the German people to make a last
attempt to seize European leadership.

In consequence, Germany's fate is
made to appear the result of political
mistakes made by Hitler's predeces-
sors,

One great power after another
became the victim of its lust for
power because they all failed to take
into account the strength of insular
powers like England and later the
US and the great Eastern territory
on Europe's borders.

At the present time, these demains
outside of Europe have been willy-
nilly forced to take over Europe's
political heritage, Dehio finds it
especially characteristic that the very
fact that the US has not deigned to
use power-politics methods has led
to its present pre-eminent position in
the political field, because that policy
has enabled it to fully develop its
own civilization in,
peace.

The Oder-Neisse Line by Dr. Fried-
tich Hoffmann. Political development
and status in international law. Pub-
lished by the Goettinger Arbeitskreis,
a group of East German scholars.
Printed by Verlag Joachim Henrich
K.G., Frankfurt/Main.

N CONCISE pamphlet form the

author sums up the present status
between the Allies on the East Ger-
man border.

On the basis of various statements
by the foreign ministers of the
Western Powers and well-known per-
sonalities in American public life,
Dr. Hoffmann stresses the fact that
the Oder-Neisse Line was never en-
visioned as anything more than pro-
visional. He points out that the
mere fact of resettlement as a fait
accompli cannot invalidate the legal
status as laid down in international
agreements, According to him, the
fate of Silesia, Pomerania and East
Prussia still hangs in the balance.

The hope of those who have been
driven from their homes in the East
is based on this legal fact, which
they (and Dr. Hoffmann) consider
further supported in law by the fun-
damental right of human beings to
their homeland, described as inalien-
able in the UN “General Declaration
on Human Rights” of Dec. 10, 1948.

Appended to the pamphlet is the
“Polish White Book on Germany,
1948" which deals with the Polish-
Soviet standpoint on this border
question.

(Telegraf Weekly, Berlin, 43rd week)

Dehio sees two
effective principles
behind the Euro-
pean struggle for
hegemony: The
insular and con-
tinental. The latest
exponent of Euro-

pean continent
power concentra-
tion is Russia,

although she does
not restrict herself
to that territory.

The US, with Bri-
tain in its train, re-
mains the only re-
presentative of the
insular principle.

72

wlhr seid ja s0 duenn geworden, Genossen’ — ,,Kunststueck, bei uns

sourde gewaehle

Stalin to Austria’s and Norway's KPD:
“Why, you've become so thin, comrades!" “No wonder,
we had to go through elections."

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 77 ---
Official Communiques

Allied High Commission

At the fourth meeting of the Council of
the Allied High Commission, methods of broad-
ening opportunities and responsibilities of
the Federal Republic of Germany in the field
of foreign and economic activity, were con-
sidered by the Council of the Allied High
Commission meeting Oct. 27 at the Peters-
berg, near Bonn. Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner, (Chairman), Mr.
€. E, Steel, representing Sir Brian H. Robert-
son, United Kingdom High Commissioner, and
M. André Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner, were present.

The Council affirmed that the German
Federal Government should assume increased
authority in negotiation of trade and payment
agreements and in foreign trade generally,
subject to such control arrangements as the
Allied High Commission may establish from
time to time, The Council directed that
Allied experts should complete a procedure
to define these increased responsibilities which
are to be assumed by the Federal Government.

In addition, the Council agreed to transmit
to the Federal Government an invitation from
the International Trade Organization (ITO) to
take part in tariff negotiations to be held late
next year. One of the objects of these nego-
tiations will be to afford an opportunity to
countries which are not yet parties to the ITO
general agreement on trade and tariffs to
accede to it.

Also in the economic field, the High Com-
missioners contemplate that United States and
German representatives will meet in the near
future at a time and place to be arranged to
negotiate a bilateral agreement between the
Federal Republic of Germany and the United
States under the terms of the US Foreign
Assistance Act (European Cooperation Ad-
ministration). Such an agreement was authoriz-
ed by the Conference of Foreign Ministers in
Paris in April of this year. The German Federal
Government recently informed the High Com-
mission that it was ready to begin discussions
on such an agreement.

In order to carry out Article IV of the Char-
ter of the High Commission, the Council ap-
Proved procedures to guide the Land (state)
observers. These observers will be appointed
by each element and will consult with the state
commissioners of the other two occupation
zones on all state matters of a tripartite
interest. The observers have consultative
functions in the fullest sense of the term. The
observers and the state commissioners will
inform each other of their points of view and
will seek each other's advice. The observer
will be responsible only to his High Com-
missioner. However, the state commissioner
alone represents the High Commission in each
state, being responsible to the Council of the
Commission.

A contract, negotiated by German authori-
ties, which would transfer the management of
the State Printing Office (Staatsdruckerei),
Berlin, from the Berlin Magistrat to the German
Federal Government was examined by the
Council. The High Commissioners decided not
to disapprove the contract with the under-
standing that their action carried no implica-
tions in relation to possible establishment of
other federal institutions in Berlin.

(The State Printing Office located in the US
Sector of Berlin, was taken under Property
Control by US Military Government under pro-
visions of Law No. 52 in May 1949. This and
several other former Reich-owned properties
in the US Sector were turned over to the
Berlin city government as trustee and custo-
dian under the provisions of the US Military
Government Law No.19, Subsequently, the
Berlin Magistrat ratified the above mentioned
contract to transfer management of the print-
ing office to the Combined Economic Area on
behalf of the future federal government. Pre-
viously, the printing office had been ad-
ministered by the Berlin Magistrat under Allied
Kommandatura control. Its transfer to federal

DECEMBER 1949

management is expected to result in increased
orders and employment in Berlin.)

The Council signed a law providing for the
expulsion of undesirable persons. (See tex!
under “Laws and Regulations.’’)

Selection of Capital

The Office of the US High Commissioner for
Germany issued Oct. 25 the following state-
ment:

“A number of quite unofficial questions have
recently been asked as to the position of the
United States High Commissioner regarding
the selecton of the provisional capital for the
Federal Republic. These questions relate so
obviously to what is purely a German decision
that it is only by way of emphasis that Mr.
McCloy stated again today that he wishes it to
be clearly understood that the United States
position is, as it has always been, namely, that
the determination must be and remain a Ger-
man decision and one in which the United
States High Commissioner naturally refuses to
take any part.

“Whatever German city is selected by the
Federal Republic, the US High Commissioner
will do his utmost to conform to and cooperate
fully with whatever decision is taken."

Capital-Shift Proposal

Following the request from the federal
chancellor dated Oct. 29, 1949 for information
as to Allieri requirements at the site of the
provisional capital of the federal republic,
should the ‘-hoice of the provisional capital be
Frankfurt, the Allied High Commissioners
replied Nov. 3 in the following terms:

In answer to your letter of Oct. 29, 1949,
the following information is submitted. It is
pointed out that the Allied High Commission
does not wish in any way to influence the
decision on the selection of a site of the
German federal government.

(1) In reply to your first question, the city
of Frankfurt will be evacuated of all troops
and the city itself will be free of Allied staff
agencies except for an enclave area surround.
ing the existing Farben building in which will
be situated the agencies serving the High
Commission. The only exceptions are the
general hospital, located in north Frankfurt
area, the refrigeration plant and the three
hotels now under requisition and family and
club accommodations now under requisition. In
addition, facilities outside the enclave must be
provided to meet certain added accommodation
requirements of the incoming French and UK
personnel,

(2) In accordance with the decision taken
by the Military Governors on this subject, all
DM costs will be borne by the Federal Re-
public of Germany. It is to be noted that all
US troops are either already evacuated from
the area or are in the process of being
evacuated.

(3) The Allied General Secretariat will
comprise approximately 200 Allied personnel.
These numbers are included in the answers
to question four, below.

The High Commission has not yet co-
ordinated the figures regarding the number
of French, UK and US individuals who would
have to be in Frankfurt.

(4) Subject to further examination of this
question by the High Commission the answers
to question four are as follows:

a. The US High Commissioner wishes to
retain in Frankfurt US personnel now there,
numbering about 800.

b. The British now have accommodation for
approximately 650 employees. The UK High
Commissioner asks for additional accommo-
dation for 100 - 150.

c. The French authorities have already
stationed in Mainz all the agencies which the
badly-damaged city can receive. The French
Commissioner will have to transfer to Frank-
furt all the personnel and service at present
in Bad Godesberg and those expected to
arrive there. ‘Yhis would mean that accommo-
dation is required for some 500 to 600 em-
ployees. Note: These figures do not include
families. .

(5) As stated in the answer to question two
above, such costs will be met by the Federal
Government of Germany.

73

Support for Berlin

The following statement was issued Oct. 21
by the Allied High Commission:

“The High Commission has again had under
consideration the special situation of Berlin
and wishes to emphasize the determination
of the three Allied Governments to maintain
their rights and obligations in that city, and
the interests, both economic and Political, of
its inhabitants, The High Commission under-
stands the feelings of the population of Berlin,
and assures the city of its fullest moral and
material support; for it regards, and will con-
tinue to regard Berlin as being confided to the
care of the western occupying powers in a
special manner.

"The High Commission has made a careful
examination of the needs of Berlin with a view
to determining both the amount of assistance
required and how it can best be provided. It is
impressed with the need for immediate action.
To this end, the High Commission continued
its consultation with the federal chancellor
and was pleased to learn from him of the
measures the federal government proposes to
take to enable it to grant financial assistance
to the municipal government of Berlin and
assist Berlin in the revival of its economic
life. These measures, which have been devised
after consultations between the: authorities
of Berlin and the federal government, are
welcomed by the High Commission. It has
been agreed that Allied and German experts
will collaborate in the working out of the
assistance to Berlin.

“The High Commission for its part is exam-
ining the ways and means by which it can
contribute to the amelioration of the economic
conditions of Berlin and has made certain
specific suggestions which are now under con-
sideration by the federal government."

The statement followed a two-hour meeting
on the morning of Oct. 21 at the Petersberg,
near Bonn, seat of the High Commission,
attended by Mr. N. H. Collisson, representing
Mr. John J. McCloy, U.S. High Commissioner,
M, André Francois-Poncet, French High Com:
missioner, and General Sir Brian Robertson,
United Kingdom High Commissioner.

German Civil Service

The Allied High Commission issued the
following statement Oct. 2

“The Federal Press Office (German) issued
a statement on Oct. 17 saying that the Federal
Government had decided on the issue of a
Provisional Civil Service Law, which would
shortly be considered by the Bundesrat (Federal
Council) and Bundestag (Federal Assembly).
“While such a decision is, of course, an
entirely appropriate one for the Federal
Government to make, it is pointed out that
Military Government Law No. 15 still remains
in force. It can.only be repealed by the High
Commission and its repeal will be considered
if and when a request for it is made, in
accordance with the Occupation Statute, by
the appropriate German authorities. While
Law No. 15 continues in force, its provisions
remain binding on the Federal Government.”

British Zonal Whitley Committee

The following announcement was made
following the meeting Oct. 26 at Duesseldorf of
the Zonal Whitley Committee of the British
Control Commission in Germany. The meeting,
attended by staff and official representatives,
was held under the chairmanship of Sir Brian
ponerse and vice-chairmanship of Mr. R.

._ Rigg.

The move of the main offices of the Con-
trol Commission to Wahn was among the
matters discussed. Representatives of the staff
associations, several of whom have recently
inspected the accommodation at Wahn, expressed
themselves as well satisfied with the arrange-
ments being made for both housing and wel-
fare. There has been close consultation
between official and staff representatives since
the beginning of this project and the machinery
for cortinuous consultation is fully estab-
lished.

Initially members of the Commission moving
to Wahn will be accommodated in single
quarters on the airfield and in houses vacated
by the Royal Air Force at Troisdorf nearby.
It is the intention to move as many families
as possible to Troisdorf before Christmas.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 78 ---
Work has already started on the development
of new community areas in the neighborhood
of Wahn which will be used for both single
and married members of the Commission.

Allied High Commission

The wider powers for the German Federal
Republic in the field of foreign trade, decided
upon under the Occupation Statute, were
defined by the Council of the Allied High
Commission at its fifth meeting held Nov. 10
at the Petersberg, near Bonn.

The Federal Government will now assume
general responsibility for the negotiation of
trade and payments agreements between the
Republic and foreign countries, although for
the present a procedure providing for Allied
supervision is to be followed. Present were
the Deputy High Commissioners, Mr. C. E.
Steel, United Kingdom (Chairman), Mr. Arm-
and Berard, France, and Maj. Gen. G. P. Hays,
United States. They acted in the absence of
the High Commissioners who were attending
the Foreign Ministers’ discussions at Paris.

Defining. the procedure for future trade and
payments negotiations, the Council decided
that the federal government would be free
to initiate and accept invitations for such
negotiations after it has arranged a_take-
over date with the Joint Export-Import
Agency which is now being liquidated. Allied
observers may attend trade and payments
negotiations. In the first stage of ratifications,
agreements will be initialled by the German
delegation. Final signature will be given by
the German government if the Allied High
Commission interposes no objection.

The Council atfirmed that German foreign
trade policy should have as one of its main
aims, the rendering of the Republic inde-
pendent of external assistance as soon as
possible. The government should not, how-
ever, take measures which might distort the
movements of German exports and imports in
international trade or might prejudice the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Havana
Charter, the International Trade Organization
or the International Monetary Fund.

In the exercise of the reserved powers in
the field of foreign trade, the High Com-
mission will concern itself particularly with
the following:

(1) Customs and tariffs specifically in their
relationship to the movement of trade. Poli-
cies and administration of quantitive import
controls.

(2) The establishment and maintenance of
a single rate of exchange most appropriate to
diminish Germany's need for external as-
sistance.

(3) The granting of special considerations or
privileges to exports directed to specific areas
or consisting of specific commodities.

(4) The subsidizing of imports of specific
commodities or from specific areas.

(5) International agreements with respect to
the distribution of specific markets or commod-
ities in exports.

On a basis of recent Tripartite studies, the
Council had a preliminary discussion as to
the issue involved in the final resettlement of
displaced persons and refugees either abroad
or absorbed into German life and economy.
The Council agreed to undertake a study of
the legislation, either Allied or German,
required to define the legal status of dis-
placed persons.

The Council also discussed the special prob
Jems involved in controlling the present influx
of refugees into western Germany.

The Council signed a law providing for
the publication in the Official Gazetie of
legislation by individual High Commissioners
in their own zones, and a law nullifying
certain Nazi legislation concerning nationality.

The High Commissioners, defining the extent
to which an individual commissioner may le-
gislate in his own zone, affirmed that these
legislative powers cover matters referred to
in Paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the Charter of
the High Commission. These include among
others maintenance of law and order; pro-
tection, prestige, security and immunities of
the Allied Forces of Occupation; reparations
and restitutions; displaced persons; war
criminals, and the administration of Allied
courts.

(Special steps are to be taken to insure as
far as possible uniformity ‘throughout the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

federal territory of legislation by an indi-
vidual High Commissioner.

(The Council signed a law amending Allied
High Commission Law No. 1 to provide for
publication of such unilateral legislation in
the official gazette of the High Commission
and for the repeal of Military Government
legislation relating to the publication of
Military Government enactments. in the
western zones of occupation.

(The council also signed a law declaring
null and void in their effect on French na-
tionals two Nazi enactments which, contrary
to universally recognized principles of inter-
national law, forcibly conferred German
nationality on certain categories of foreign
nationals. These two measures were the Reich
Ordinance of Aug. 23, 1942, on Nationality
in Alsace-Lorraine and Luxembourg, and the
‘Fuehrer's decree’’ of May 19, 1943, granting
German nationality to foreigners incorporated
in the German army and similar organizations.

(For texts of these laws see “‘Laws and
Regulations."')

Finally, the Council noted the following
names of heads of missions who have so far
requested accreditation to the Allied High
Commissions:

Belgium — M. Louis Scheyven.

Canada — Lt. Gen. M. Pope,

Denmark — Maj. Gen. F. Hvass.

Greece — Maj. Gen. Diamantopoulos

India — Maj. Gen. Kaub-Chand.

Italy — Signor F. B, Rizzo.

Luxembourg — M. Albert Wehrer.

Netherlands — Vice Adm. J. M. de Booy.

Sweden — M. Brynolf Eng.

In due course these heads of missions will
be presented to the Council in accordance
with accreditation procedure.

British Headquarters in Berlin

As a result of the reorganization of the
British representation in Berlin following the
move of the United Kingdom High Commission-
er's Headquarters to Wahn, NR/W, British
Military Government will be concentrated in
Lancaster House, present COG Headquarters
(building in Berlin), and Headquarters British
Troops -Berlin will move to Deutschland Haus.

Cumberland House and the Kaiserdamm
block will be derequisitioned, with the ex-
ception of certain minimum accommodation
required at each location.

Deutschland Haus, a 200-roomed office blodk
in Reichskanzlerplatz (British Sector), was
occupied by British Military Government until
June 1948, when the building was derequisi-
tioned as an emergency home for the Magistrat
(City Council) Food Office.

Notice of the impending moves, due to be
completed by Dec. 14, 1949, has been sent to
the city authorities.

The move of Military Government and Army
Headquarters from the Kaiserdamm block of
buildings will release over 600 offices to the
Magistrat.

Cumberland House, which has already been
discussed as a suitable location for Yederal
offices in Berlin, contains over 400 rooms with
a ballroom and restaurant accommodation on
the fifth floor.—CCG(BE) announcement.

Allied Kommandatura

The Deputy Commandants of the Allied
Kommandatura (Berlin) in their regular weekly
meeting Oct. 25 approved a request of the
Magistrat to permit unlimited licensing of
motorcycles in Berlin. Registration since 1945
had been limited by Kommandatura order to
3,003 motorcycles because of tire and motor
fuel shortages, The number to be registered
is now left to the discretion of the Magistrat.

Laws and Regulations

Law (No. 10) on Expulsion
of Undesirables
Article I

The Council of the Allied High Commission
or any authority designated by it for this
purpose may order any Getman national not
ordinarily resident in the territory of the Fed-

74

eral Republic or any person not. a German
national to be expelled from the territory of
the Federal Republic either permanently or
for such period as may be prescribed if:

(a) He is convicted of an offense by an
Occupation Court, or

(b) His presence is lable to endanger the
maintenance of public order or the prestige
or security of the Allied Forces.

Article II

Each High Commissioner shall have the
power to order unilaterally the expulsion from
the territory of his zone any non-German
national whose expulsion is, in his opinion,
required in the interest of the public order
or the prestige or security of the Allied
Forces. In each case he shall forthwith inform
the other two High Commissioners of his
action,

Article IT

Any person against whom an order has been
issued pursuant to this law may be taken into
custody and removed from the territory of the
Federal Republic or the zone, as the case may
be. Pending his departure he may be held in

custody,
Article IV

Any person who violates any provision of
this law or any order made thereunder shall,
upon conviction, be liable to a te:m of im-
prisonment not exceeding five years, or a fine
not exceeding DM 10,000 or to both such
imprisonment and fine.

Article V

The following legislation is hereby repealed:

United States Military Government Ordinance
No. 29 (Expulsion of undesirable Germans),

United States Military Government Ordinance
No. 30 (Expulsion of undesirable non-Germans).

British Military Government Ordinance
No. 64 (Deportation), ;
British Military Government Ordinance

No. 180 (Expulsion). ;

However, orders of expulsion or deportation
made under the legislation so repealed shall
remain in full force and effect.

Law on Privileges for Ruhr
Authority

The Allied High Commission for Germany
promulgated Cct. 20 a law granting to the
personnel of the International Authority for
the Ruhr the privileges and immunities pro-
vided for in the general convention on
privileges and immunities of the United
Nations, and granting to the chief representa-
tives of the member nations of the Rubr
Authority the privileges and immunities
accorded to diplomatic missions in permanent
residence, The law will be published in the
Official Gazette.

Law Promulgated on Industrial,
Literary and Artistic
Property Rights of Foreign
Nations and Nationals

Approval and signature of a law to restore
the industrial, literary and artistic property
rights in Germany of Allied nations and
nationals, which were confiscated, cancelled or
impaired as a result of the war, was announ-
ced Oct. 20 by the Allied High Commission:
The law will be published in the Official
Gazette.

The property rights include patents, trade-
marks, designs and copyrights. Applications
which were pending at the start of the. war
may be reinstated and priority rights based on
previous filing dates abroad may be obtained
upon request of the ‘Allied owner.

The law applies to all foreign nations and
their nationals which were at war with or oc-
cupied by Germany between Sept. 1, 1939 and
May 8, 1945.

The new law has these objectives (iumbered
articles refer to text of law):

1, Restoration of industrial, literary and ar-
tistic property ‘rights owned by Allied foreign
nations and hationals and seized or in;
validated during the war. (Articles, 2 and 3)

2. Reiristatement of patent and trademark’ ap-
plications made by. foreign nations and’ na-

DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 79 ---
tionals which were pending at’ the start of the
war. (Article 4)

3. Extension of the duration of patents, trade-
marks and copyrights owned by the foreign
nations and their nationals for a period cor-
responding to that from the start of the war
between Germany and the nation concerned
until Oct. 1, 1949, which is the effective date
of the law. (Article 5)

4. Extension of the time for claiming in Ger-
many the priority rights accorded by the Inter-
national Convention for the Protection of In-
dustrial Property. (Articles 6 and 14-c)

5, Authorization to parties or firms in Ger-
many to continue to exercise, under a non-ex-
clusive license, the rights which they had hona
fide acquired during the war. This benefit is
similar to that granted to bona fide users by
the peace treaties with Italy, Finland and the
Balkan countries, (Article 7)

6. Preservation of the right of the Allied
owner to institute proceedings within two years
against persons or firms in Germany which in-
fringed his right during the war. (Article 8)

7. Extension of the period within which the
working of a patent is required by existing
German law. (Article 9)

8. Entitling of foreign nations and foreign
nationals to such benefits with respect to
industrial, literary and. artistic property rights
@s are granted under German law to German
nationals. (Article 10)

9. The repeal of several discriminatory or-
dinances issued during the war in the field of
industrial property and copyrights. (Article 13)

The law provides that in general the compe-
tent German courts are to have jurisdiction in
matters concerning its application, Implement-
ing regulations are to be issued by the appro-
priate German Federal authority. (Articles 11
and i2)

Nullity of Certain Provisions
of National Socialist
Legislation on Nationality

Whereas for purposes of annexation the
National-Socialist government enacted legis-
lation imposing German nationality on persons
or groups of persons in breach of the princi-
ples of the Law of Nations, and certain of
these provisions affect nationals of France, the
council of the Allied High Commission enacts
as follows:

To the extent that the Reich Ordinance of
August’ °23, 1942, (Rgbl. i. 533) and_ the
fuehrer’s decree of May 19, 1943, (Rgbl.
4, 315) purport to confer German nationality
compulsorily on French nationals such ordin-
ances and decree are hereby declared to
have been null and void.

Speeches and Statements

Admission to OEEC

High Commissioner McCloy issued the follow-
ing statement in connection with the ad-
mission of Western Germany Oct. 30 as a
member nation of the OEEC:

“The admission of the Federal Government
of Germany into the Organization for European
Economic Cooperation is a memorable landmark
for the new republic. For the first time since
the war, Germans will be able to represent
their interests in their own name as full
members of an international body. This signifies
the confidence which the occupying powers
have in the willingness of the Federal Republic,
not only to make all efforts for the rehabilita-
tion of its own economy, but also to ac-
complish it in the sphere of the economic
rehabilitation of Western Europe as a whole.

“As a representative of ECA in Germany,
IT am delighted to see this indication of co-
operation among the European nations beyond
individual! national interests, It is demonstrably
in line with the hopes which we all place in
the European Recovery Program."

The action in Paris Oct. 30 was in accor-
dance with the agreement reached in Washing-
ton April 8, among the governments of France,
the United Kingdom and the United States,
under which it was ‘envisaged that the Ger-
man federal republic will become a party to

DECEMBER 1949

the convention for European economic co-
operation...”

Following the establishment of the Federal
Republic of Germany, the Council of the
Allied: High Commission on Oct. 7 sent a
letter to Dr. Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of
the German government, authorizing him, in
pursuance of the April agreement, to appoint
delegates to represent the government in the
Organization for European Economic Coopera-
tion and to replace the delegates hitherto ap-
pointed for the US, UK and French Zones of
Occupation.

“Such appointment implies," the letter stated,
“that the Federal Government is resolved to
adhere to the principles and policy of the
Economic Cooperation Act passed in the
United States and with the consent of the
United States Government, to assume the com-
mitments of the bilateral agreement concluded
between the United States Government and
the three Military Governors during the
period that these agreements remain in force."

In reply, Dr. Adenauer wrote to Mr. McCloy,
then chairman of the High Commission, that
his government intended to appoint delegates
to the OEEC.

“I have been instructed to declare at the
same time to the Allied High Commission,”
his letter continued, ‘that the German Federal
Government subscribes to the principles and
policy objectives of the Economic Cooperation
Act enacted in the United States, and is
prepared to enter into an agreement with the
US Government by which it will assume the
rights and obligations of the three Military
Governors arising from the agreements pre-
viously concluded by them with the Govern-
ment of the United States."

Upon receipt of this confirmation from
Dr. PAdenauer, the Council of the Allied High
Commission informed the secretary-general of
the OEEC of the Federal Republic's agreement
to such action. At the same time, Dr. Aden-
auer also wrote to the OEEC, announcing its
intentions.

“The Federal Government has instructed
me," he wrote, “to express to you its satis-
faction at the opportunity now offered to take
its place in the work of European economic
cooperation. The Federal Government intends
to maintain the responsibilities assumed under
the conventions of the Organization for
European Economic Cooperation and to dis-
charge the obligations hitherto incurred in the
work of the organization.

“T have the honor, Sir, to request you, on
behalf of my government, to inform the
council of the Organization for European
Economic Cooperation that my government is
determined to exert every effort in support of
the organization and to make a full and
proper contribution to the fulfillment of its
work and purposes, with the assurance of my
highest consideration.”

Reiherstieg Dismantling

Dr. J. K. Dunlop, British commissioner for
Hansestadt Hamburg (British Zone), made the
following statement Oct. 27:

The Allied agreement on the limitation of
German industry, which was published in
April of this year, laid down that the
Deutsche Werft Reiherstieg (German Wharf of
Reiherstieg) should be dismantled for repara-
tions.

We had been asked to delay the putting
into effect of this scheme largely for reasons
connected with employment. I have now been
instructed to commence this dismantling.

In this connection I wish to make one or
two points quite clear.

In the first place, it is desirable to make
clear exactly which is the shipyard involved.
It is not the Deutsche Werft at Finkenwaer-
der, that is to say, the large shipbuilding
yard opposite the Teufelsbruecke (Devil's
Bridge). This is the shipyard whose gantries
(steel platforms for moving cranes) carry the
name Deutsche Werft, and presumably this
is the shipyard referred to in a recent
Communist election poster. This yard, one of
the most modern and best equipped on the
continent of Europe, is not involved in our
dismantling program and remains intact for
the building of ships, so does the other
modern yard at the Howaldswerke,

wi)

I think that the preservation of these two
large, well-equipped yards is a decisive argu-
ment against those who say that dismantling
is carried out through British and French fear
of German competition. The Deutsche Werft at
Reiherstieg was very severely damaged by
bombing throughout the war and is now 90
percent destroyed. The two gantries which can
be seen opposite the Grasbrookhafen (a
harbor) are both so damaged by bombing that
they would probably have to be taken down
before they could ever be used again. The
shipyard has not in fact built any ships for
the last five years and it is not now capable
of carrying out shipbuilding.

May T just repeat the facts.

The tripartite Allied agreement of April last
left_ to Hamburg shipbuilding the two large
modern yards of Deutsche Werft, Finken-
waerder, and Howaldswerft. It also left the
smaller Stueloken yard. This agreement
ordered the removal of the destroyed Reiner-
stieg yard.

I hope that anyone who rushes into argu-
ment in this subject will at least get his facts
straight.

The second point I wish to make clear is
that this dismantling is not going to create
any serious unemployment.

Two weeks ago there were only 48 men at
work and of those, seven were in the office.
As I have already said, no shipbuilding has
been or can be carried out at Reiherstieg.
The place is a ruin and it will be to the
benefit of Hamburg that the ruin should be
cleared away and the ground set free for
new and constructive enterprise which will
create employment.

The third point is that while several
machines will indeed be taken away for
reparation purposes, a great quantity of the
destroyed steel work will removed on commer-
cial terms and the German economy will
receive payment for steel scrap at world
market prices.

One final point: I have received my in-
structions and I am going to carry them out.

False Rumor Concerning Demolitions

Under the title ‘Wieder Sprengungen," the
Kieler Nachrichten (Kiel, S-H, Nov.2) stated
that certain buildings at Torpedo-Versuchs-
Anstalt East, are due to be demolished, The
Office of the State Commissioner for Schles-
wig-Holstein pointed out that this story was
telephoned to them on Oct.31 and denied
then. The only further demolitions planned at
Torpedo-Versuchs-Anstalt East, concern the
seawalls, These will cause no damage to any
of ithe existing buildings.—from CCG(BE) press
release.

Official Announcements

EUCOM Salary Classification

Increased salaries authorized for US civilian
employees of US Army appropriated fund
agencies in the European Command under the
new Classification Act of 1949 became effec-
tive Oct, 30, EUCOM Headquarters announced.
The raises will be reflected in pay checks
distributed about Dec. 1.

The increases specified in a US Federal
Worker's Pay Bill signed by President Truman
vary from $15 to approximately $200 a year.
The changes in salaries are not applicable to
employees of army nonappropriated fund
agencies. (Also this announcement does not
apply to HICOG personnel.)

The new Classification Act converts Civil
Service CAF (clerical, administrative and
fiscal), P (professional) and SP (subprofessional)
ratings into a new system of GS (general
schedule) ratings that range from 1 to 18.

Present CAF ratings, which go from 1 to 16,
will be identical under the new grade de-
signations. Thus, a EUCOM employee now
classified as a CAF-5 will become a GS-5
after Oct. 30. The P and SP series will show
change in the numerical designations, but the
salaries will remain virtually unchanged ex-
cept for the increases authorized by the Act.
For example, a P-1, who now draws approx-
imately the same pay as a CAF-5, would be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 80 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

The European Recovery Program, April 1 to
June 30, 1949, Joint Report of the United
States and United Kingdom Military Governors,
No. 4, June 1949,

Communications (Quarterly Review), No. 48,
OMGUS (Berlin), June 30, 1949,

Appropriations and Projects Pertaining to
Nonoccupation Costs (German Funds) Fiscal
Year 1950, AG 120 BUD-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
Aug. 19, 1949.

Fifteenth Report for the Public Advisory
Board, ECA, Sept. 21, 1949.

Trade Unions and Public Education in West-
ern Germany (in English and German) by Irvin
R. Kuenzli, Visiting Expert Series No. 11,
Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG, Sept. 1949.

Military Government Regulations, AG 010.6
(CO), OMGUS, Oct. 4, 1949. List of’ changes.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 191, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Oct. 6, 1949.

German Economic Press Review, No. 209,
OEA, CCG(BE), Oct. 6, 1949.

Preliminary Report on Employment and Un-
employment, by Laender Bizonal Area, End
September 1949, HICOG, Oct. 7, 1949,

Economic Press Digest, No. 69, PRD HICOG
and ISD CCG(BE), Oct. 7, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 55, ISD HICOG (Bad
Nauheim), Oct. 11, 1949,

Daily Press Review, No. 56, ISD HICOG (Bad
Nauheim), Oct. 12, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 57, ISD HICOG (Bad
Nauheim), Oct. 13, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 59, ISD HICOG (Bad
Nauheim), Oct. 17, 1949.

The Marshall Plan and Western Germany,
Reactions Analysis No. 190, ISD HICOG (Bad
Nauheim), Oct. 17, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 60, ISD HICOG (Bad
Nauheim), Oct. 18, 1949.

Economic Press Digest, No. 71, PRD HICOG
Oct. 21, 1949,

Monthly Report of the Control Commission
for Germany (British Element), Vol. 4, No. 9,
Office of UK High Commissioner, Oct. 21, 1949.

The Importance of an Honorable Discharge,
TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 42, Oct. 23, 1949.

Industry Division Highlight Report, No. 1,
PRD HICOG, Oct. 25, 1949, Covers period end-
ing Oct. 20.

information Bulletin, November 1949, PRD
HICOG, Oct. 25, 1949,

Daily Press Review, No. 67, ISD HICOG,

Oct. 26, 1949, )

HEUTE (in German), No. 95, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Oct, 26, 1949,

Daily Press Review, No. 68, ISD HICOG,

Oct. 27, 1949.

Copies of Instructions listed in

the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to
the originating headquarters.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 194, ISD
HICOG, Oct. 27, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 69,
Oct. 28, 1949,

Economic Press Digest, No. 72, PRD HICOG,
Oct. 28, 1949.

ISD HICOG,

Daily Press Review, No. 70, ISD HICOG,
Oct. 29, 1949.
Daily Press Review, No. 71, ISD HICOG.

Oct. 31, 1949,

Educational and Cultural Activities in Ger-
many Today, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
October 1949, Reprint of 16 articles’ from In-
formation Bulletin.

Daily Press Review, No. 72, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 1, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 73, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 2, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 74, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 3, 1949,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 195, ISD
HICOG, Nov, 3, 1949,

Daily Press Review, No. 75, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 4, 1949,

Daily Press Review, No. 76, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 5, 1949,

Neue Auslese (in German), ISD HICOG
(Munich); November 1949.

HEUTE ‘(in German), No. 97, ISD HICOG,

Nov. 9, 1949

Economic Press Digest, No. 74, PRD HICOG,
Nov. 11, 1949,

classified as a GS-5, with a salary correspond-
ing to that which he is now receiving, plus
the specified Classification Act increase.

There will be no changes in the numerical
designation of custodial, protective and crafts
positions, although the employees will receive
salary under the act.

General schedule conversion tables and
charts of the new pay scales have been sent
to civilian personnel and payroll offices
throughout the European Command.

Further information on regulations of the
Classification Act of 1949 will be announced
by the EUCOM Personnel & Administration
Division as soon as it is received from
Washington, officials said.

EUCOM Marriage Policy

European Command Headquarters has ex-
pressed no objection to allowing military
personnel to return temporarily to EUCOM on
leave or furlough to marry Germans for the
purpose of legalizing the birth of a child or
children.

This attitude was outlined in reply to a
query from the Department of the Army for
an expression on what might be done for
military personnel who have admitted pater-
nity of a child in Germany, and who wish to
return for the purpose of marrying the mother.

Reassignment of the service man to the
European Command for duty on a permanent
change of station generally would not be
approved, the EUCOM reply to the Depart-
ment of the Army query stated.

The waiting period normally required of
Americans wishing to marry Germans in
EUCOM could be shortened if EUCOM officials
had prior knowledge of the case, and other
EUCOM marriage requirements can be complied
with in approximately 30 days, the message
said.

EUCOM officials suggested that the service
man be advised to contact his fiance directly,
furnishing her with official documents authoriz-
ing his leave in Germany, so that preliminary
contacts could be made with German officials
and with the military post near her home.
This would help expedite processing the
marriage application.

The wife and other dependents might not
be able to travel to the United States with
their sponsor because of the difficulties that
may be experienced in obtaining exit permits,
immigration visas and other documents prior

to the departure of the sponsor from Germany
at the end of his leave, European Command
Headquarters warned. Normally, however, the
dependents can secure all the necessary
clearance within two months, the EUCOM
message said.—from EUCOM announcement.

Marriage by Proxy

The US State Department does not recog-
nize marriage by proxy as valid for the pur-
pose of issuing a non-quota immigration visa
to an alien, the EUCOM Chaplains Division
teported.

Alien spouses married by proxy will be
required to enter the United States under the
regular immigration quota established by the
US Government for their country.

This information was received by the
EUCOM Chief Chaplain in response to a
request for clarification on the point. Several
Jong distance telephone wedding ceremonies
have been conducted recently in EUCOM. —
from EUCOM announcement.

Uniforms in Switzerland

A member of the US military forces may
travel in Switzerland in uniform if he has a
Swiss entry permit (green pass), and appro-
Priate leave orders or pass.

A report appeared in the press recently
stating that the wearing of foreign military
uniforms in Switzerland is prohibited unless
the service man obtained prior permission
to do. so from the Swiss Political Department
in Bern. The green Swiss entry form which
US service personnel may obtain with their
travel orders or pass through their military
post or at EUCOM Headquarters, gives the
necessary permission.—from EUCOM announce-
ment.

Unclaimed Baggage

Owners of unclaimed baggage being held
at the Bremerhaven Port of Embarkation
should request their post transportation
officer to effect the forwarding of the baggage
to them, according to the EUCOM Transporta-
tion Division.

EUCOM Military or civilian personnel who
are expecting baggage or household goods
from army transports should submit EC Forms
55-17 and 55-22 to-the adjutant or to the
administrative officer of their organization, so

they can be sent to Bremerhaven and to- the
post transportation officer.

It is essential that copies of the forms be
furnished the Bremerhaven Port of Embarkation
and the post transportation officer. Port
officials send the shipment to the post, and
the receiving post transportation officer’ then
directs it to the owner. — from EUCOM an-
nouncement.

Commissary Overhead Charge

The 10 percent overhead charge which was
required by law to be added to EUCOM
commissary accounts of other than US armed
forces personnel, has been discountinued for
employees of other US Government agencies
in_Germany, effective Oct. 1.

The new ruling is contained in Public Law
327 passed by the 8lst Congress, It applies
only in Germany. Individuals authorized privi-
leges in EUCOM who will benefit by this
law are members of the Department of State.
Treasury Department, Department of Justice,
Maritime Commission, Displaced Persons Com-
mission, Economic Cooperation Administration
and the Bureau of Customs.

Employees of international agencies and
private enterprises authorized US army com-
missary privileges will continue to pay the
10 percent overhead charge. — from EUCOM
announcement,

Holding of EES Ration Cards
It has come to the attention of EUCOM

Headquarters that some installations of the

European Command are holding EES ration
cards as security for the issue of equipment
or other items when such issue is on @
temporary basis.

The holding of EES ration cards as security
fs not in accordance with the purpose for
which these cards are issued, and all com-
manders will take necessary action to insure
that this practice is discontinued immediately.
— from EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 43.

HICOG Duty Travel Orders

Pending revision of EUCOM Circular 28
(1947) as amended, duty travel orders issued
by the US High Commissioner for Germany
will be honored in the same manner as those
orders issued previously by the commanding
general, OMGUS, under the authority of
above circular. — from EUCOM Weekly Di-
tective No, 44.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF

--- Page 81 ---
DECEMBER

S
M
q
W
7
F
S

4 11 18 25
5 12:19 2
6°13 20 27
7 14 21 28
$15 22 27
9 16 23 30
10 17 24 31