--- Page 2 ---
THIS issu

Progress Report on Germany

Relief by Parcel Post
Good Neighbor Week

DP Resettlement
Mission for 1950

American Affairs Institute

FEBRUARY
1950

--- Page 3 ---
Glenn G. Wolfe (right), director of the Office of Administration, HICOG. Pho
Kolb signing agreement Jan. 17 for 30 acres of land for project, as Mr. Wolfe looks on. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Plans for a huge housing project for HICOG employees in Frankfurt are explained by Jack H, Lennon, coordinator, to

to at right shows Frankfurt Mayor Walter

Frankfurt Housing Project

Work WILL BEGIN shortly on the erection of a modern housing pro-
ject in Frankfurt, to be financed entirely by Government and Relief
in Occupied Areas (GARIOA) counterpart funds, which will provide living
quarters for approximately 500 HICOG employees and their families,
Glenn G, Wolfe, director of the Office of Administration, announced.
No part of the expense of construction will be charged to occupation
costs, according to Jack H. Lennon of the Office of Administration, who
is in charge of the project. Mr. Lennon explained that all funds will be
provided by GARIOA.

The new settlement will be located west of Hansa Allee and north of
HICOG headquarters, and will include about 45 apartment buildings of
12 apartments each, as well as a community center, maintenance shops
and playgrounds. The apartments, consisting of two and three bedroom
units, will be of the most modern design and will be completely furnished.
The first housing units are expected to be finished in about five to six
months after the builders begin breaking ground.

Covering more than 30 acres, the land for the housing settlement will
be made available by the city of Frankfurt. The housing settlement will
be turned over to the city of Frankfurt when it is no longer needed by
American personnel. All materials and equipment will be purchased in
Germany.

Mr. Lennon estimated that the construction will provide work for be-
tween 1,800 and 2,500 skilled and unskilled workers in the Frankfurt area.
As HICOG families move into the housing units, the dwellings they now
occupy will be returned to the German economy, thus contributing to the
alleviation of crowded housing conditions in Frankfurt. -+- END.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies, regu-
lations, instructions, operations and
activities of the Allied occupation in
Germany.

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Room 263-A

Frankfurt, Germany

Editor <n siaretaje Mego see H. Warner Waid

Editorial Writer ...... Aileen S. Miles

Editorial Writer ...... Beth MacVicar
e

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

The Information Bulletin is printed
in the plant of the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, located
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution of the Information Bul-
letin is handled by the Mail and
Message Center, Communications Di-
vision, Office of Administration, HICOG,
located in Headquarters Building, Room
060, Frankfurt.

COVER PICTURE

RELIEF BY PARCEL POST — Ameri-
can citizens have spent approximately:
$325,000,000 in value of content and
postage to pack and send packages
0f food, clothing and other necessary
articles of life to relatives and friends
in postwar Germany. Typical of this
individual assistance is the photograph
showing a cargo net filled with gift
parcels being unloaded from a ship
which had just arrived in Bremen from
the United States. A picture story of
this voluntary activity is on pages 8
and 9. (Deutsche Post photo)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

February 1950

Our POuUCY itl GErntany? <6. 21. 3 isire = os. co nice vin. ois icin ealeieinis'

Military Security Board) 5.)..:.0.- 00s 0se sess vis oe osend- ati
Article by Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges

Institute of American Affairs .................-000csee0es
Article by Dr. David L. Hoggan

Relief by Parcel Post. 0... 00.2606. 2. eee eee ede eee
Pictorial Story by Eugene H. Merrill

PLOUTSSt’ DOUALA VO ee 2s saul des .eh om oes p aiense agate

Resettlement of Displaced Persons ..................+055
Article by Charles T. Reyner

Progress Report on Germany ............-.--+eseeee eee
Address by John J. McCloy

Good Neighbor: Week» <=... .3 acijeah wilt: 948. on. was
Article by John W. Jergenson

Small Arimalguuege ec cess i cese ris Cp ect pian a Ns hrte
Pictorial Story

‘Mission for: 1950) isc Fees usa ots cress Soles eisls ole ar bascieran amoinns
Digest of Address by Ralph Nicholson

Report :to the Peoples: o.¢-(i2 cvs Peists kes yoy s se ee eee
Review of December Activities

ECA AQreQment. oi od sie sn sicwe rons caatechreu, tuk dames mene ene
Summary of US-German Pact

US High Commissioner and Staff .............-......0005
Official Photograph

Occupations Vignettes P20 OCI ITS Ie a a.

IMinGrmartiosves tos Sh ECE BLO. RAYS,
Last of Political Parties Series

TA CHEANAG CEM OUOR TON retake Seon Ace ratte unk nega hi
Industrial Expansion Aided «0.2... .ccs.e eee p cence cece eee
Ruhr Power Reaches Bavaria ...............-sseseeeseeee
Gorman :HOMGM AIG hs 9.59. 7y 2s op oes NaN aig nse mae

Official Notices
MICK OF HG ATSC IICN ooo ei Sis sss only ais os so 0d
GOMMMMUTUCR) ores a vies oop soins oy nt Saisie se sieee
Laws and Ordinances. .

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
oe ee ee ee ee er TTT MMM OMnOO OU OOUOOOUOUUCOTUOCUUOOUOOOOOUNUOOOOOOOUOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONUOOOOOOOOOOTUOOUTITOOUTIUOOOTTOOOOTTOOOO TT a=

Our Policy in Germany

The following is extracted from the radio address by
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy in Washington
Jan. 23 as the points of chief importance in connection
with the German policy of the United States. Full text of
the speech begins on page 15.

T IS OUR GOVERNMENT'S policy to seek a unification of all

occupation zones of Germany on a democratic and federal
basis, and we shall assist all effort of the Federal Republic of
Germany toward that end.

We must continue to be alert and uncompromising on true
security issues.

We must continue to insist on the equitable treatment of
Hitler's victims and their heirs.

We must help the Germans solve as rapidly as possible the
critical social and economic problems of Germany.

We should maintain, as far as lies within our power, a unified
policy with respect to Germany among the three occupying
powers of the West.

We should bend every effort to encourage Germany to take,
if need be, the first step to bring about a true partnership of
western Europe and induce the other western European powers
to accept this principle for themselves and for Germany.

We should continue to press and encourage the German
government and people to adopt liberal, progressive measures
throughout Germany, whether or not these measures are within
our powers to dictate.

We must encourage and stimulate every effort to give the
youth of Germany justified hope in the future. + END

PPTL Oe LLC LLL Oe EK Ue UL ELULL See IT

ESUTITTTTT ULL LLL LLL LOA LL LOM LULL DCCC MTCC

Fl

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 6 ---
Military Security Board

By MAJ. GEN. JAMES P. HODGES

US Commissioner, Military Security Board

Cam HAS BEEN a world leader in the arts, in
JF the sciences, in creative genius, in technical skills.
It has been a nation characterized by strong and ag-
gressive nationalism; by fanatical leadership; by mass
obedience and consecrated devotion to the Vaterland.
It has been a nation which produced people like Martin
Luther, Goethe, Beethoven and Einstein; and people
like Frederick the Great, Bismarck, Kaiser Wilhelm and
Hitler. It has been a nation of great potentialities and
unbelievable recuperative powers. It has been a nation
which, defeated in 1918, stood on the threshold of world
dictatorship in 1940.

As we, today, stand in contemplation of the remains
of Europe, we realize how important, how vital it is
for us, as victors, to use all of our intelligence and
common sense, exert all of our influence and do all
in our power to guide, direct and assist this country,
this large and important slice of Europe, to become
eligible for world membership as a power dedicated
to world peace and democratic principles.

Such is the task of the High Commission, and in its
field such is the task of the Military Security Board.
We must see to it that this time she abides by the
rules. But the rules must be fair and economically
sound; they must be clear and unmistakable — and they
must be inflexibly enforced,

HE MILITARY SECURITY Board can find much in

history to guide it. The events that took place
between 1918 and 1929 are recorded in black and white
and in great detail. The mistakes in
the rules, the failures on our part to
enforce them, the evasions and viola-
tions by the Germans — all are writ-
ten down for us to study and profit
by. There was a High Commission in
those days — and a Military Security
Board (the latter was called the Mili-
tary Inter-Allied Commission of Con-
trol) — but these bodies were not
clothed with the necessary authority
to command either Tespect or ob-
edience,

This costly error was not repeated
by our governments in the present
Situation, which is tangible evidence
of our determination to profit by the
©xperience of our last occupation. In
the months and years to come the

activities or behavior which led to mistakes in policy
or decision.

The Military Security Board was born of the London
Conference of March 1948, where representatives of the
US, British and French Governments agreed that such
an agency was needed to insure the maintenance of
German disarmament and demilitarization.

ONSIDERING THAT it took five years of war and

three years, post war, to accomplish the disarmament,
and further, that we are not sure even today that de-
militarization is complete, the task of insuring Germany's
continued disarmament and demilitarization is not as
simple as it sounds.

That part of armament and militarization represented
by armed forces was clearly disposed of by the defeat
and subsequent dissolution of the German armed forces.
But behind the armed forces was an extensive and
efficient industry, a national pride and an aggressive
spirit. None of these basic fundamentals came into being
overnight. Nor can they be disposed of overnight, assum-
ing such to be desirable, which it is not.

But, if security is to be maintained, these elements
must be kept within proper limits. Industry must be re-
quired to concentrate on peaceful commodities and de-
nied the right to produce armaments in any shape or
form. National pride and aggressive spirit must be made
the basis for decent industrious citizenship, free from
the passion to regiment and dominate other men.

The Military Security Board was
constituted to attain these ends. It is
organized into three national elements:
US, British and French, each element
comprising approximately 50 profes-
sional and 35 administrative people
carefully selected for the job, and
organized into four principal groups,
a secretariat and three divisions:
Scientific Research, Industrial and
Military.

A FIRST TWO of these divisions

have aims which, to a great extent,
are contradictory to other aims of the
occupation, which point toward the
economic recovery of Germany and
the peaceful exploitation of her re-
sources to achieve higher standards
of living. Control exercised by the

board must similarly be on guard
against previous errors and be alert
to familiar patterns of agreements,

FEBRUARY 1950

Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges, a digest
of whose speech at the recent Resident
Officers’ conference in Frankfurt ap-

pears in these pages. (US Army photo)

3

Scientific Research and Industrial Di-
visions must, therefore, be exercised
with tact, understanding and restraint.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
Industry should not be unreasonably suppressed nor
should it be hamstrung with unnecessary restrictions or
harassing requirements.

So much for the general picture of the task of the
board. Now for a more detailed description of the work
of three divisions. First let us consider the work of the
Scientific Research Division.

HEALTHY INDUSTRY and prosperous economy are

impossible without scientific research. Yet it was
‘through the efforts of scientists that poison gases were
developed for use in the first World War; that atom
bombs and bacteriological agents were developed for
use in the last war. It follows that scientific activities
which may lead to new weapons must be watched.

Fortunately, there is a considerable time lag between
a laboratory discovery and the production of a useful
weapon. This fact simplifies surveillance over the scientific
field. Fundamental research is the search for truth, and
this we have no desire to suppress, We must remember
that the same fundamental knowledge responsible for
the atom bomb produced the x-ray machine and the
radium treatment of cancer; that knowledge gained in
the search for means of combating disease laid the
foundations for bacteriological warfare. We want new
ideas to hatch. And so, within the limits of certain re-
strictions and under a careful calculated plan of sur-
veillance we want the German scientists to go about
their business.

One feature of this carefully calculated plan is the
scrutiny of scientific journals. These are published in
every civilized country and are circulated throughout
the world. Most discoveries of any importance are re-
ported in these journals and by systematically scanning
them, trained personnel keep informed of the trends in
scientific research, and can anticipate the direction in
which a given field of research is heading before any
important work has been completed in that field.

Naturally, the Scientific Research Division does not
confine itself to the reading of professional literature.
It has a small, but highly competent staff of specialists
whose broad acquaintanceship among individual scien-
tists and laboratory heads gives them a working know-
ledge of current trends and accomplishments in the
scientific field.

T IS OUR JOB to see to it that the Germans do not

engage in certain prohibited fields of applied research.
These include the atomic, poison gas, portions of the
bacteriological field and certain aspects of the fuel
flow field. But the dividing line between warlike and
peaceful resarch is hard to define—especially in the
fields of radio-active energy, chemistry and bacteriology.
Hence in these fields we merely require laboratories to
report periodically on their activities. Reports are
verified, of course, by unannounced inspections. And
the penalties for violations are rather severe.

Surveillance over the scientific field is maintained
almost entirely by the board itself. This is because of
the necessity of utilizing to the best advantage the
limited number of highly specialized people available

INFORMATION BULLETIN

to us for this work. This method is quite different from
the echeloned method of surveillance in the military
and industrial fields.

Actually, this system of surveillance over German
scientific activities has been in operation for more than
two years. It has proven quite satisfactory and has
promoted a definite sense of responsibility on the part
of the Germans. It is, of course, entirely possible for a
laboratory to engage in illegal work. But any research
requires some equipment, and records of progress have
to be kept.

In western Germany there are more than 1,600 scien-
tific institutes and laboratories of one sort or another,
and an estimated 7,000 accredited scientists. Naturally,
every researcher cannot be watched, but fortunately
the number of laboratories capable of completing an
important research project is limited. After all it ig
rather difficult to make an atom bomb in a cellar.

URVEILLANCE OVER INDUSTRY presents far great-

er difficulties than those described in the scientific
field. It is true that control of the output of steel, alu-
minum, ships and so on, is a fairly simple matter. For
example, we know how many steel mills exist in Ger-
many and can make a fairly close estimate of how
much steel they can produce. A new steel mill cannot
be built secretly overnight, nor can an extra shift be
put to work without our being the wiser. By the same
token, neither can a bomber or a battleship be built
without detection.

But control of plant capacity is not so simple, nor is
surveillance over the manufacture of products which
have commercial as well as military use. Take, for
example, the manufacture of industria] explosives. In-
dustrial explosives result from an almost endless number
of combinations of chemicals, many of which are used
in the legitimate production of plastics and dyestuffs.
As a consequence, there are many profitable oppor-
tunities for the man who wants to break the law. The
number of prohibited or limited products for which
there is a ready and profitable market is considerable.

The Industrial Division observes activities in five broad
fields: chemicals, electronics, mechanics, metallurgy and
shipbuilding, embracing more than 1,000 plants in the
three western zones. Naturally, we cannot cover such
a large field in great detail. Fortunately, detailed cover-
age is not essential.

Most German industrialists are reputable and observe
the laws laid down for them. Contro] Council Law
No. 43 is well known to the Germans and there have
been few violations of its provisions. The new and more
comprehensive law which is soon to replace it, will,
I am sure, become just as well known.

The federal German government has signified its
desire to cooperate with the Military Security Board
and can do much from a moral and practical standpoint
to insure obedience to security laws and regulations.
However, all their cooperation will not eliminate the
need for detailed inspections of plants and activities,
nor the need for spot-checks to determine the accuracy
of reports, (Continued on page 7)

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 8 ---
By DR. DAVID L. HOGGAN

Assistant to the Director
American Institute at Munich University

N INSTITUTE for American Affairs — the first school

of its kind in Europe to present a comprehensive and
well-rounded program on American life extending into
all major academic fields — is now in its first session at
the University of Munich.

The institute, financed by the Bavarian Government
and the Rockefeller Foundation, is the outgrowth of a
proposals made more than a year ago by Dr. Henry F.
Peters, of Reed College, Oregon, who was invited to
come to the University of Munich as professor of Ameri-
can literature. Dr. Peters urged that instead of teaching
a single unrelated subject, American literature be taught
in conjunction with other courses in order to give
European students a well-rounded picture of American
life and affairs.

The idea was sympathetically received both by the
university and by American education officials in Ger-
many. Although there have been numerous American
institutes in Germany and in Europe in the past they
have been limited in scope to one or two subjects. The
plan for an American institute to be staffed by Americans
and offering a complete program of American studies rap-
idly kindled enthusiasm in United States academic circles.

In less than a year the institute received a grant of
250,000 Deutsche marks ($59,500) for reconstruction pur-
poses and the guarantee of one fulltime professorship
and two assistants from the Bavarian Ministry of Educa-
tion and a Rockefeller Foundation grant of $50,000
establishing three academic chairs.

These grants together with the interest manifested by
other foundations and the practical support given by
American and German authorities gave the green light

to initial preparations. A whirlwind campaign in Ameri-
can universities followed which produced the academic
good will and support necessary from the United States.

pers THE BUSY WEEKS prior to the opening of
the institute last Nov..3 more than 60 workmen
labored at top speed to rush to completion reconstruc-
tion of the bomb-damaged wing of the former House of
German Law, which houses the institute. Realizing the
need for future expansion particularly in view of a
comprehensive American research and reference library,
the Bavarian Government also has reserved a three-story
tower in the building for the use of the institute.

The present provisional library, which is being built
up at the rate of 1,000 volumes monthly, is operated on
the open stack principle. It contains all major works in
American literature and history accumulated from
numerous sources. An additional grant from the Rocke-
feller Foundation has enabled the institute to make a
careful selection of works purchased in the United
States. Assistance in collecting books on American sub-
jects has been given by the Materials Exchange Branch
of HICOG's Education and Cultural Relations Division
while voluntary gifts from private American donors, the
Darien, Connecticut Book Aid Plan, and Yale University
are swelling the already large number of volumes on hand.

In its current session the institute is offering only six
courses in American literature and history, but this pro-
gram will be extended to include philosophy, political
science, economics and sociology in order to achieve the
goal of a complete American study program.

Among the outstanding American scholars who are
participating in the first few semesters are Howard

Weekly problems of the Institute staff are thrashed out in the Director's Office (l.tor., Dr. H. F. Peters, director, Dr. David
L. Hoggan and Dr. Heinrich Stammler, assistants). Students in photo at right take notes on an American history lecture.

--- Page 9 ---
Interior view of the America
Institute library at Munich Uni-
versity. The Institute's library
receives 1,000 books monthly
from a variety of sources,

Mumford Jones, professor of
literature at Harvard University,
Quincy Wright, professor of
political science at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, and Merle
Curti, professor of history at
the University of Wisconsin. It
is expected that this high stand-
ard for the teaching faculty will
be maintained and that in the
course of years a succession of
leading American educators will
make their appearance at Mu-
nich to contribute to the program
of introducing European students
to American life and letters.

ETHODS OF INSTRUCTION
at the institute combine
many modern educational fea-
tures recently developed in
America which represent an
entirely new technique in con-

tinental teaching practices. This
is particularly true of the con-
ference method which permits close cooperation between
students and teachers, and of the combined program in
the humanities course.

This latter course enables students entering into Ameri-
can studies to form a comprehensive picture of American
civilization as a whole before they select areas of con-
centration, This basic course combines the fields of
American history, literature, economics, political science,
philosophy and religion.

The combined program is based on the idea that solid
links between fields are more than ever necessary in
this age of increasing specialization, and that these links
can only be provided by bringing the various subjects
together in a general comparative treatment. This is
known in education as the horizontal approach, and in-
volves a maximum amount of cooperation on the part
of any teaching staff. The course is given in the form of

lectures followed by group discussions and -informal
seminars dominated by student discussions.

All these methods are well known in American insti-
tutions — where experience has shown that this close
contact between teacher and student is more effective
than the more orthodox teaching methods — but they are
relatively unknown in Europe.

LTHOUGH TOTALLY unfamiliar with this method of

instruction, German students already have given out-
standing evidence of their capacity to adjust to it. One
German student became so well adjusted that he turned
the tables on his American professors. Asking each
instructor singly if the American revolution could have
been avoided after the calling of the first Continental
Congress, he later confronted the entire humanities staff
during the discussion period with the sharply different
answers: he had received and precipitated a lively dis-
cussion among the faculty by presenting their own diver-
gent viewpoints.

Two boards—German and American—direct the affairs
of the institute. The American board includes Senator
Wayne Morse, Oregon; Dr. Luther Evans, Librarian of
Congress; Dr. P. C. W. Dekiewiet, president of Cornell
University; Dr. Harold Laswell, Yale Law School; Dr.
P. H. Odegard, chairman, political science department,
University of California; Dr. Howard Becker, University
of Wisconsin, and Dr. Henry Nash Smith, University of
Minnesota.

The entire German board has not yet named, but will
include Dr. Alois Hundhammer, Minister of Education,
Bavaria; Dr. Dieter Sattler, Secretary of State, Bavaria;
Professor Walter Gerlach, Rector, University of Munich;
and Max Foerster, professor emeritus of English, Uni-
versity of Munich.

Unlike any other institute, the American Affairs
Institute at Munich embraces two continents and is
aimed at creating a better understanding of America in
Europe. A permanent adjunct to the University of
Munich, it is hoped that it will become a center of
American studies not only for German but for European
students. + END

America-style: pictures from left to right show an informal student discussion group; students and instructor talking over
the day's assignments; Dr. Heinrich Stammier, discussing a seminar report with a group of students, The Institute, a
permanent adjunct to the University of Munich, in the Bavarian capital, is the first of its kind in Europe.

--- Page 10 ---
(Continued from page 4)
Military Security Board

The list of prohibited or limited industries is much
too long to detail here.* Briefly, the manufacture of all
weapons of war is completely prohibited, as are many
items of potential military value, such as fire control
equipment, aircraft, armor plate and specialized military
signaling equipment. Restrictions are placed on other
items of manufacture which, while not of primary mili-
tary utility, are indispensable alike to modern armament
and peaceful industry. A few examples of these are
machine tools of certain categories, ball and roller
bearings, some chemicals, beryllium, atomic piles, ships
and certain types of radio tubes. Steel, of course, is
the outstanding example of a restricted industry.

HE WORK OF the Military Division differs radically

from that of the other two divisions. Its job is dis-
armament and demilitarization. Disarmament, as mention-
ed earlier, has already been accomplished, and where no
armament exists, rearmament of any sort can quickly
be detected. Whereas the Industrial Division might have
considerable difficulty in discovering the addition of
one machine in a ball bearing plant, the addition of
one man-of-war to the German fleet of fishing and
small cargo boats would stand out. True, a few hundred
or even a thousand or so rifles may be smuggled in or
dug out from under haystacks, but this is a matter for the
local police, and not a threat of rearmament. Notwith-
standing the simplicity of the task, we must not relax our
vigilance to insure that disarmament remains an actuality.

The task of demilitarization includes surveillance over
activities far less tangible. Militarism, when bands and
parades do not call your attention to it, is hard to
detect, yet it may exist none the less. Patriotism is a
normal emotion. Self-respect, national pride and aggres-
siveness are qualities we have no desire to eradicate.
Yet somewhere along the line these qualities may be
transposed into militarism and aggressive nationalism.
Where one leaves off and the other starts is different
according to who observes the process.

But regardless of how difficult it may be to recognize
the start of these trends, there should be no difficulty
in recognizing their blatant extremes, Warlike and in-
flammatory speeches and demonstrations, parades, strut-
ting of uniformed officials, actual military training—such
manifestations are obvious. But when a former German
army officer writes a history of the North African cam-
Paign he can scarcely be denied some comment on the
Telative quality of his and the enemy's troops. If he
Praises his own men, and thus leads his readers to harbor
a respect for the German soldier, he can hardly be
charged with inciting militarism.

C IS TO BE expected that there will be criticism of

the occupation, complaints about restrictions, demands
for rearmament and so on. These cannot be suppressed
whether they come from private individuals, or from
elected representatives in the Bundestag (Federal As-
Sembly). Nevertheless, the Board must take note of them,

* see Information Bulletin, Issue No. 160, May 3, 1949,

FEBRUARY 1950

for their tenor and frequency indicate trends, and by
plotting these trends it should not be difficult to detect
a significant resurgence of militarism.

These then are the three fields of activity of the Mili-
tary Security Board:: military, industrial and scientific
research, The mission of the Board, in short, is to in-
sure the continued disarmament of Germany.

In order to carry out its mission the Board must, first
of all, maintain a critical attitude toward security laws
and regulations to see that they are adequate and abreast
of the times. The big job, of course, is to see that the
laws are obeyed. To this end, supervision will be eche-
loned. As the first echelon we propose to place a con-
siderable burden of responsibility on the German federal
and state governments to see that the laws are obeyed.

The next echelon of supervision is the US state com-
missioner, who as the agent of the Board in his state, is
the principal executive contact with the Germans. Aside
from the basic laws and regulations issued by the High
Commission, directives and instructions from the Board
will be issued to the Germans through the respective
state commissioners. It will also be the task of the state
commissioners to follow up these directives and instruc-
tions with local surveillance and inspection to insure
that violations are detected and offenders prosecuted. In
this connection it is well to recall our experience after
World War I and the importance of prompt and effec-
tive action against violators.

The third echelon of supervision is that which is exer-
cised by the unilateral elements of the Board, that is,
the US Element over the US Zone, the French Element
over the French Zone and the British Element over the
British Zone. As a matter of fact, this is not so much
another echelon of supervision as it is a reserve of
specialized experts available on call from the state com-
missioners. The supervision exercised unilaterally by
the Board members is more to see that procedures and
policies are uniform in all the states,

INALLY, THE TOP echelon of supervision is the

Military Security Board itself. This tripartite super-
vision is exercised in two ways: First, by analyses of
statistics and information flowing in from all sources and,
secondly, by field inspections. These inspections will be
performed by tripartite parties and are apart from those
performed by the state commissioner's staff.

It should be emphasized that the Military Security
Board is neither a law enforcing agency nor a prosecuting
agency. It merely observes and recommends. Law en-
forcement is a responsibility of the state commissioners
and, as has been pointed out, of the Germans themselves.
Agents of the Board may, during the course of an in-
spection, discover some violation that requires immediate
action by one of the law enforcing agencies, and insuch .
case are authorized to call on the local authorities to
have the culprit removed to the lockup, his factory closed,
and illegal products impounded. Ordinarily it is visual-
ized that the violator will be reported to the state
commissioner, who will be responsible for following
up the case to see that appropriate punishments are
meted out. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
By EUGENE MERRILL

Chief, Communications Branch
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

HE GREATEST VOLUNTARY personal relief activity

in the history of the world, from the people of one
country to the people of another, is being carried on by
the American people to their friends and relatives in
Germany by sending gift parcels through postal channels.
The extent of this spontaneous relief can be determined
only from postal reports.

Since this little publicized postal service was opened
in June 1946, Germans have received from the American
people more than 39,000,000 gift parcels containing
256,000 tons of food, clothing and similar items for relief
of human suffering, The contents of these parcels and
their postage represent contributions by the American
senders totaling some $325,000,000.

In spite of the conditions which existed in Germany,
the depredations of gift parcels in the German Federal
Republic have been extremely low. Less than one
package in 10,000 has been pilfered or lost — giving the
German Post Office an impressive record.

Through the ECA program, the postage for gift par-
cels mailed in the United States to the German Federal
Republic and the Western Sectors of Berlin has been
reduced from 14 to six cents a pound. These parcels now
have an average weight of 18 pounds, It is cheaper to
mail such a parcel from any place in the United States
to Germany than from New York to Miami, Fla.

More than 65 percent of the gift parcels are delivered
by the Deutsche Post to addresses in Germany within
30 days after mailing in the United States. Eighty-five
percent are delivered within 35 days.

The voluntary sending by individual Americans of
these gift parcels is another of their contributions
toward the democratization and establishment of a peace-
loving Germany. -+ END

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 12 ---
Checking addresses, weights,

(All photos furnished by Deutsche Post)

US Gift Relief Parcels to Germany

MILLION DOLLARS
= T T T
a | i
ee) Seer eee
7 = - i
16} —— _
15 — t
14
13) | |
i |_ re
uy —_
10 a
9

if
’ i} Ty = |
6 i ————H}
s| aa al i | |
4 4 | 4 to
P| 7 H SUGniGE

| |

2 | t

' E - ' |
all | |

JIASOND JFMAMJJASOND VF MAMI JASOND JFMAMJJASOND

1946 1947 iu 1946 1949
Totals (June 1946—Dec. 1949):

Contributed by American Senders ........ $325,000,009

Parcels ......... ccc cece cece cece ee a 39,060, J0:*

Weight of Contents in Lbs. ............. 514,000,000 (257,000 tons)

FEBRUARY 1950

oO

Rewrapping damaged packages.

Signing Post Office receipt.

Parcel from US is delivered.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
‘Tourist “Dollar Drive”

ERMAN TRAVEL agencies are organizing an all-
out campaign in 1950 to go after the tourist dollar,
as part of western Germany's “dollar drive."

Western Germany is counting on 200,000 American
visitors in 1950, who are expected to leave behind an
estimated $60,000,000 in Germany. In 1949, an estimated
150,000 foreign visitors of all nationalities came to
western Germany. Of this number, approximately one-
third were Americans, but no figures are available on
how many were bona fide tourists and how many were
businessmen.

Sparking the drive is the German Tourist Board
(Deutsche Zentrale fuer Fremdenverkehr) which will
coordinate all plans to develop international tourism,
to encourage private tourist agencies, to work with
occupation and federal authorities in eliminating red tape
incidental to travel and to promote rebuilding of hotels.

The board aiso will advise on the division of the
recent Economic Cooperation Administration allocation
of DM 2,000,000 ($476,000) in counterpart funds for the
reconstruction of tourist hotels in Germany.

The board consists of representatives of the German
railroads, travel agencies, hotel and restaurant associa-
tions, city administrations, transportation groups, cham-
bers of commerce and postal and telegraph officials.

URING 1949 the tourist board distributed more than

500,000 pieces of travel literature abroad. This year,
provided they get some assistance from the federal
government, they will send out more than 800,000
English language travel folders. Individual German
tourist agencies will distribute another 800,000 pieces of
travel literature.

The Deutsche Revue, published by the board, made its
appearance in December. The first issue comprises 32
pages. The magazine, printed in four colors on art paper,
is one of the best examples of typographic craftmanship
to come out of postwar Germany.

An English language edition will be issued the first
week in January. Pending necessary permission for col-
lecting subscriptions in foreign exchange, 10,000 copies
of the January issue were to have been carried by the
airlines serving Frankfurt to the United States for
ultimate free distribution to tourist agencies, airlines and
other travel groups.

REMEN AND BREMERHAVEN served as the port

of entry for approximately 7,000 foreign visitors
during 1949, a little better than 50 percent of the prewar
volume. This year, they are counting on more than
doubling the figure, with a considerable number of “in-
transit" tourists en route to the Passion Play.

Bremen tourist officials have established a port tour-
ing service and have carried out a planned schedule of
improvements in their museums, parks, historic build-
ings and other tourist attractions. The state Senate is
seeking means of financing additional hotels to augment

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

the present total of 62 hotels, pensions and boarding
houses—which provide only half the total of 3,450 beds
available in 1938.

Hesse’s bid for the tourist dollar is mainly in its 129
mineral spas and health resorts. Repair work and re-
modeling will go on all through 1950, with emphasis on
the famous spas.

Wuerttemberg-Baden is counting on Heidelberg to
draw some tourists, although US Army headquarters
there has most of the large hotels. Despite this, 1949
saw more than 5,000 tourists visit Heidelberg, of whom
42 percent were Americans.

Bavaria, as in past years, is counting on the lion's
share of Gérmany’s tourists. Bavaria expects its income
from foreign travelers to come very close to its prewar
average of $40,000,000 a year. Bavaria's state govern-
ment places so much emphasis on tourism that in July
1949 a commissioner for tourist trade was appointed.
Bavaria is hoping to attract a good number of the 1950
Holy Year pilgrims also.

HE OBERAMMERGAU PASSION Play will be a sell-
out, according to present indications. As of Dec. 31,
some 41,000 tickets for the play had been sold.
Western Berlin, practically “off limits’ to tourists for
four years, has prepared extensive plans to encourage
tourism. In late December, the City Magistrat for the first

time discussed several measures designed to bring in ~

foreign visitors. These include publication of a Berlin
“prospectus” in English, French and German, and pre-
paration of travel folders and posters for distribution
abroad. Berlin also will have a special exhibit at the
Copenhagen tourist show in February.

Another move designed to increase American travel
is a two-week vacation trip, offered by 10 transatlantic
airlines. The special excursions will be offered until
March 15, with passengers leaving Europe on the last
excursion flight not later than March 31. The fare will
be the regular one-way plus 10 percent. This amounts
to a 40 percent reduction on the regular round-trip rate.

Foreign visitors to Germany still require an entry-exit
permit, but HICOG travel officials state that visitors may
now receive the necessary entry-exit permits within 48
hours. Permits are obtainable from the High Commission
Permit Offices, formerly Military Permit Offices, located
in Washington, New York and capitals of all major Euro-
pean countries.

Permits are valid for 30 days, but once in Germany,
extensions may be granted by the offices of the Combined
Travel Board, located in each of the state capitals of the
three Western zones and in Berlin.

The American Automobile Association has arranged
several tours, employing the United States liner Wash-
ington for the voyage to Germany. All of the tours
include the main scenic areas of western Germany and
Oberammergau.

+ END _

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 14 ---
Displaced Person:

By CHARLES T. REYNER

Chief, Office of Public Information
International Refugee Organization, US Zone Headquarters, Bad Kissingen

HREE MAJOR PROBLEMS confront the International

Refugees Organization in the US Zone of Germany
as it enters 1950 and the most critical months of its
entire period of operation. In less than six months it
must close down a care-and-maintenance program that
at its peak fed, housed and clothed more than a third of
a million displaced persons, and in less than 15 months
must assist in the resettlement or repatriation of as
many as possible of the displaced persons still remaining
in the zone, in IRO camps or living privately on the
German economy. Meanwhile, it must continue and
strengthen its efforts to obtain the best possible economic,
Social and political conditions for those who must remain
in Germany.

A consolidation program, worked out in cooperation
with the Occupation Authorities, is making steady pro-
gress in the field of camp closure. The number of resi-
dence camps in the zone has been reduced by 80 per-
cent since July 1, 1947, when IRO came into existence,
and the number of persons in those camps has been
Teduced, largely through resettlement and repatriation,
to one-third its 1947 size.

While the camp closure program is being worked out
fairly smoothly along the lines of the consolidation

FEBRUARY 1950

il

program, the greater portion of IRO's efforts, from the
world headquarters in Geneva and the zone headquarters
in Bad Kissingen, down to the area and sub-area head-
quarters offices throughout the zone, are directed toward
the resettlement program.

The first 30 months of IRO's operation in the zone —
from July 1, 1947, to Dec. 31, 1949 — saw the resettle-
ment of approximately 312,000 displaced persons from
the zone to new homes in 57 countries, and the repatria-
tion of an additional 21,000 to their prewar home lands.
UNRRA had resettled nearly 40,000 persons before it was
succeeded by IRO.

ORLD-WIDE OPERATIONS of IRO, extending
westward from India to Shanghai, during the same
30 months assisted in the resettlement of more than
675.000 persons from Austria, Germany, Italy and 18
other countries around the world. Approximately two-
thirds of these displaced persons came from IRO care
and maintenance. Repatriation during this period totaled
more than 68,000.
During this period, most of the resettlement was on
mass schemes and resulted in the departure of a large
proportion of those displaced persons who presented no

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Health and education of DP children receive special attention. Displaced persons operate their own schools for their
children (left). IRO, in guarding the health of the DPs in its care, stages careful inspections of children (as at right)
for tendencies to disease,

special problems in health, age, skills or family compo-
sition, They left the zone in an endless procession of
IRO trains, often 18,000, 19,000 or 20,000 persons a
month. The problems connected witb their immigration
were routine ones, involving their selection, the location
and preparation of their documents, their examination
and final presentation to the selection mission represent-
ing the country to which they hoped to immigrate, and
their mass transportation by rail, air and ships to their
new homes.

The emphasis was on semi-skilled and unskilled labor
on healthy young women for domestic service, oa
single persons, young married couples and on small
families, IRO experienced no unus‘al difficulties in ful-
filling these requirements.

UTSTANDING EXCEPTION to the general practice

of selecting comparatively young, a! le-bodied work-
ers has been that of Israel, where more than 53,000
Jewish displaced persons have gone under the auspices
of IRO. That new nation has made no restriction as to
age, health, skill or size of family, on the immigration
of Jewish persons. If they wished to go to Israel, they
were accepted and they awaited their turn on transports
arranged by the Jewish Agency for Palestine. Cost of
the transportation of those displaced persons who were

eligible under the IRO mandate is reimbursed to the
agency by IRO.

Remaining in the camps, however, while the tens of
thousands poured out of Germany through the IRO's
two principal staging areas—Bremen and near Naples—
was a group of persons whose wartime and postwar lot
had been as hard as their immigrating fellows, but whose
prospects of leaving Germany were limited by one or
more factors over which they had no control.

Some came from professional backgrounds and could
not qualify for labor schemes. Some were aged. Others
were handicaped by illness or loss of sight, hearing or
a limb. Most of these persons had one or more depend-
ents who were unwilling to split the family through
their own immigration.

Still another gioup of persons were members of fami-
lies so large that most selection missions considered
them a poor economic risk. A man can earn enough to
support only so many dependents, the selectors reasoned,
and closed the door of their country to a family which
might include a strong, able-bodied worker and his wife,
a large number of children, and an aged father and mother.

O MEET THIS problem head-on, the IRO has launched
a two-pronged program; one salient concentrating
on developing special immigration opportunities to meet

At left, IRO officials discuss their program's progress. From left to right are J. Donald Kingsley, director general of
International Refugee Organization; Mrs. Kingsley; Sir Arthur Rucker, deputy director general of IRO; Philip E, Ryan,
chief of operations in the US Zone. Photo at right illustrates typical attendance at IRO vocational training programs—
men from all walks of life and age groups.

--- Page 16 ---
Language and vocational training are essential in the IRO program as a means of preparing DPs for future emigration
and jobs. Special language classes, utilizing phonograph records of foreign speech, are conducted for those desiring

to learn. At right, students in an IRO vocational school learn the finer points of welding operations.

the specific condition, capabilities and requirements of
a given family or person, and the other to improve the
physical condition of those who have been handicaped
and to rehabilitate those who have been ill. The first
force in this double attack is the resettlement placement
program and the second is the rehabilitation program.

Since the beginning of its resettlement program, the
IRO had had occasional offers of employment from various
countries for specific types of specialized skills and pro-
fessions. Every effort was made to find a qualified ap-
plicant to match these offers, but no special unit was
set up in the organization to deal exclusively with this
problem, since emphasis in 1947, 1948 and 1949 was upon
moving tens and hundreds of thousands of displaced
persons rather than individuals.

This year will be the year of the individual. Although
mass movements of displaced persons will continue, the
world-wide organization and resources of IRO are being
turned more and more to the problems of those persons
with limited opportunities to resettle.

Field offices of the IRO, in the US Zone and in other
areas including the British and French Zones of Ger-
many, and in Austria and Italy, are locating these in-
dividuals, cataloging them according to their abilities

and skills, and gathering information as to why they so
far have been unable to immigrate.

EANWHILE, SPECIAL representatives of the director

general of IRO have been sent throughout the world
to discuss with government officials the humanitarian
need to resettle more displaced persons, and to stimulate
offers of employment or sponsorship for individual per-
sons and families. They carry with them the individual
histories and records gathered in Germany, Austria and
Italy.

These special representatives—salesmen of humani-
tarianism—are visiting governments of Canada, the
countries of Central and South America, the British West
Indies, Australia and New Zealand, Pakistan and Ceylon,
the Middle East and North Africa, England, Ireland and
Western Europe. Wherever they go, they tell two stories:
the need for a more humanitarian approach in the esta-
blishment of standards for the selection of displaced
persons, and the contributions that thousands of these
people might make to any country if given an oppor-
tunity.

The program is gathering momentum. Offers of spe-
cialized employment, carrying satisfactory salaries and

The beginning — and the happy ending. In photo at left, displaced persons apply for registration to various schemes
operative in the US Zone. At right, displaced persons embark on ships chartered by IRO, bound from Bremen to new
(All photos provided by IRO)

homes in the United States, Canada and other countries.

--- Page 17 ---
guarantees of permanent
rights of residence, have
been received from such
places as Mexico, Ceylon,
Ecuador, Ethiopia, Co-
lumbia, England and the
United States. The offers
have been for jewelry
workers, chemical and
mechanical engineers,
waterworks engineers, a
glass factory manager,
horse breeders, social
workers, radio and tele-
vision technicians and
men qualified to assemble
and disassemble diesel
and gasoline motors. The
last request came from
Ethiopia, whose govern-
ment also is considering
the possibility of asking

30 Months of IRO in US Zone

July 1, 1947 Jan. 1, 1950

Number of residence campsinzone . . 354 80
Number of DPsin camps . 330,000 120,000*
Number of DPs living privately on Ger-

man economy EM "3 <9 200,000** 70,000*
Total number of DPs in and out of camps 530,000** 190,000*
Resettlement to USA

US DP Act. 96,500

Truman Doctrine 12,000
Resettlement to Australia . 43,200
Resettlement to Canada 33,900
Resettlement to United Kingdom 16,400
Total resettlement from US Zone to

57 countries 311,900
Repatriation . Sa a a 20,000
Resettlement by UNRRA (prior to taking

over by IRO on July 1, 1947) . 39,800

* December 31, 1949 estimates; private living total is estimate of
eligible displaced persons and refugees actively registered with IRO.
** EUCOM data on total non-German residents.

HEIRO OPERATES TB
rehabilitation centers,
with a total capacity of
450 persons, in Lutensee,
Lauf and Wartenberg.
Two more centers, with
a combined capacity of
150, are operated in Bay-
risch-Gmain and Esslingen
by the ORT and AJDC.
Centers for non-TB
patients are operated at
Neuburg by the IRO and
at Ashau by the AJDC
and ORT, The former has
a capacity of 200 and the
latter a capacity of 100.
The IRO also operates a
rehabilitation and train-
ing center for the blind
at Weyarn.
Establishment at the

for agronomists, soil che-
mists and highway con-

rehabilitation centers of

struction engineers.

Pakistan has come to the DP camps of Germany to
recruit doctors and officers for its navy. The Rocky
Mountain Wool Growers Association sent its represen-
tative to select 187 men to be sheepherders in the Far
West of the United States. Individuals from the United
States have sought and found college professors, musi-
cians, a wooden pattern maker for an iron foundry and
a candlemaker.

ROM THE ROLLS of the camps, and from among

those displaced persons who have been living outside
of camps on the German economy, the IRO can draw to fill
almost any request presented. Special efforts are now
being made to find placement for experienced merchant
marine officers and seamen, pharmacists, geologists,
educators, engineers, artists, musicians, doctors, specia-
lists in commerce and banking, and linguists.

Because of the circumstances under which they have
lived since being displaced from their homelands — often
as long as 10 years ago — some of the displaced persons
have been slow in regaining a physical condition which
would permit easy resettlement. A few have contracted
tuberculosis and others have lost limbs or their eye-
sight during the war or the years that followed.

A series of rehabilitation centers, operated in the
US Zone by the IRO, the Organization for Rehabilitation
through Training (ORT) and the American Joint Distribu-
tion Committee, has developed programs to help these
people return to a condition which will make their re-
settlement easier.

The rehabilitation centers are divided roughly into
two groups — those for former tuberculosis patients, and
those for persons who are handicapped by loss of a hand
or foot or of eyesight.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

a specialized extension of
the vocational training
program enabled IRO to train more than 12,000 persons
in two years. The ORT, which operated a similar pro-
gram in cooperation with IRO, trained approximately the
same number,

Because its reduced schedule of training—300 gradu-
ates a month—will provide training for those remaining
in the zone who require or desire this service, the IRO
is shifting its emphasis, personnel and equipment to
the rehabilitation program.

Former TB patients receive training in leather work,
radio and television, secretarial work, draftsmanship,
repair of small

machines,

watchmaking,
electrical fitting,
machine carpen-
try, light metal
work, tailoring
and dressmak-
ing.

Non-TB cases
first go through
a program of oc-
cupational ther-
apy and of phys-
ical condition-
ing, intended to
improve both
their physical
condition and
morale. Those
who have lost
limbs are taught
to use artificial

Displaced persons who have been
handicapped by serious illness or the
Joss of limbs are taught a new occu-
pation to enable them to earn a living.
These men are learning to be weavers
(Continued on pege '7) at an IRO rehabilitation center.

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 18 ---
Report on Progress

By JOHN J. MeCLOY
US High Commissioner for Germany

HE PEOPLE of the United States
have a heavy stake in our policy
in Germany, where over the past
10 years they have expended an
enormous amount of human and ma-
terial treasure. For that reason it is
important that they should be con-
stantly and fully informed of the
state of their investment in Germany
and of the progress of their policy.
As the United States High Commis-
sioner in Germany I have come home

This is the full text of the
radio address delivered by Mr.
McCloy from Washington Jan. 23
over the network of the Nation-
al Broadcasting Company to
the people of the United States.
The text of Mr. McCloy's ad-
dress to the United Council on
World Affairs in Boston Jan. 26
will be printed in the next issue
of the Information Bulletin.

include thousands of former Nazis
who were school teachers, mail car-
riers, tax officials, etc., under the Wei-
mar Republic who became party mem-
bers under Hitler and are now back
at the old stand. These people have
gone through a denazification process
— which may well leave much to be
desired — and they have been re-
instated after paying their penalties
or after having been acquitted.

The denazification process predated

after six months to make a report to

the President and to the people. I have also come home
to get the feeling of American public opinion. Tonight,
in the short time at my disposal, I shall try to give you
my best estimate of conditions and trends in a country
which is a center point of most of the great world
issues today.

In analyzing what is going on in Germany we must
remember that current developments are only super-
ficially the result of what has been happening in the
last six months. They are the outgrowth of what has and
has not been done in Germany since 1945. More im-
portant, they result from causes and conditions that are
deep-rooted in the German character and in German and
European history.

With this in mind consider for a moment what we
have undertaken to accomplish since 1945 in Germany.
It is not only to undo the 12-year rule of Hitler, a mule
which probably represented the most profound indoctri-
nation effort ever inflicted on a country. We have been
and we are trying to encourage the Germans to do some
things perhaps even more difficult. The removal, for
example, of those instincts of the German people and
their leaders toward authoritarianism and aggression
which mark a much longer period of German history
than Hitler's 12 years.

OW WHAT ARE the good and bad in the German
picture — how much progress have we made toward
our goal? I shall start with the darker side of the picture:
1, There is nationalism in Germany. There is a natio-
nalist fringe on the extreme right which is more active
than it has been. There is a communist fringe that plays
the Soviet game and there is the persistent tendency of
both these fringes to work together.

2. There are persons in important, though not top,
governmental jobs who held similar positions under the
Nazi regime. A number of undesirable persons have
found their way back into leading positions in the
business life of the country. In this connection I do not

FEBRUARY 1950

15

my assumption of office in Germany
and I do not feel called upon to defend it. But I do feel
that our denazification program was by far the most
sweeping attempt made in Germany to deal with this
difficult problem. I believe the time has come to permit
these so-called little Nazis to demonstrate their loyalty
to the new Germany and judge them on that basis rather
than on their past weaknesses and misdeeds. They can
not and should not be excluded forever from normal life
in the community. Obviously this does not refer to
major Nazi offenders who are still paying and should
continue to pay for their unspeakable crimes.

3. Traditionalism still largely influences German think-
ing. There is a considerable resistance to reform, rang-
ing from passive opposition in some cases to outright
obstruction. There is, for example, in many quarters
reluctance to adopt civil service reforms and resistance
to major school reforms.

4, A majority of Germans are gripped by political and
social inertia. Many Germans continue to divorce them-
selves from the interest and responsibility necessary to
the functioning of democratic government. There is an
exasperating willingness to leave responsibility and
direction to others. German political leaders are prone
to take advantage of this apathy.

UCH ARE THE various nationalist and traditionalist

forces and attitudes in Germany, I have deliberately
placed the negative forces first in my account. I firmly
believe, however, that positive forces are at work which
are stronger than the negative. Here are my reasons:

1. In western Germany there is today a free-elected
government and parliament. This government is new, it has
much to learn—how could it be otherwise after the Hitler
years? But, whether its trend is a little left of center ora
little right of center, it is headed in a democratic direction.

2. This German parliament is made up in large part of
representatives who resisted Hitler, men who were in
concentration camps, men associated with the Weimar

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Republic which Hitler liquidated, labor representatives
and other liberal-minded citizens.

3. In the Laender, which correspond roughly to our
states, the officials for the most part were originally
selected by American Military Government for positions
of authority because of their anti-Nazi and pro-demo-
cratic records. These leaders have since been confirmed
in free elections by the German people.

4, Another cause for considerable satisfaction is the
growing vigor of the German press. Though there are
weaknesses in it, the press which we helped start after
Hitler's collapse has demonstrated an instinct to catch
political abuses, to expose them and to help develop
public opinion. It has demonstrated a growing sense of
public responsibility.

5. The Laender parliaments have passed an impressive
total of liberal and progressive pieces of legislation that
show a strong and voluntary tendency to draw away
from Hitlerian concepts. There are other factors. Despite
their apathy, the German people prefer representative
government as opposed to dictatorship of either the Nazi
or Communist type. A vast majority of Germans are
deeply opposed to militarism and war. The German
people want no more military adventures. Moreover, in
economic matters, the Germans indicate that they prefer
a liberalized economy over a planned system.

HE GERMANS in general are receptive to plans for

consolidating Europe and they are willing to give up
elements of real sovereignty to achieve this end. Today
the idea of western European consolidation represents
to the average German, and particularly to the youth,
the best hope for the future.

There are in Germany many individuals and many
small groups of people who are working faithfully and
intelligently to break authoritarian habits. They include
editors and teachers, politicians and trade union leaders,
students and youth leaders. They have the idealism and
energy, the goal and the hope.

ET ME NOW strike a balance. There are evil and
nationalist embers in Germany and embers are
always dangerous. They are particularly dangerous when
inflammatory material is nearby. Such material exists, if
nowhere else, in the vast number of German refugees
from the east, in the unemployed, and in the homeless
youth, There have been nationalist incidents and there
will be new incidents and situations that will be both
deplorable and alarming. But no one could contend, as
the Socialist Mayor Reuter put it to me the other day
‘in Berlin, that all the evils of Hitler's 12-year rule can
be removed in five.

In other words there is danger, but if there were no
danger in Germany we would not be there. Germany
constitutes a danger within itself and an even more
fearful danger if allied with, or subordinated to, the
interests of the Soviet Union. And as I have said, the
Communist and rightist extremists in Germany seem
prepared to get together with the totalitarianism of the
Soviet, should a good opportunity present itself.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

sed

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy confers informally
with dignitaries of Hesse at a reception in his honor given
by Dr. James R. Newman, Land Commissioner for Hesse.
Pictured left to right are Dr. Newman, Christian Stock,
Minister-President of Hesse, the US High Commissioner,
and Lt. Gen. John K, Cannon, commanding general of
USAFE. (PRB OLCH photo)

In this connection let me state the following: There
has been talk that we have given up power too soon
and that we do not have the means to cope with a
serious revival of German aggressive attitudes. I under-
stand this apprehension. Naturally, we are not without
information about extremist trends. Furthermore, we
have ample powers to deal with any dangerous natio-
nalist revival. Our powers are both positive and nega-
tive, positive in the specific authority to intervene if a
serious threat to our objectives develops, and negative
in our right to deny concessions from the existing status
if liberal tendencies do not develop. If necessary, I
would not hesitate to apply these remedies swiftly and
firmly.

But I contend that some of the alarming incidents you
may read about are not representative of present Ger-
man conditions or of German attitudes as a whole. Every
day there are many unreported evidences of courage, of
determination, of the will to prevail over the past. In
them there is great potential for good and I feel that
these elements and forces will prevail, if they continue
to have our encouragement and support.

N CONCLUSION here is what I view as the things of

chief importance in connection with our German
policy:

It is our government's policy to seek a unification of
all occupation zones of Germany on a democratic and
federal basis, and we shall assist all efforts of the
Federal Republic of Germany toward that end. We will,
likewise, do everything in our power to prevent a
unification of Germany under Soviet or Communist
domination.

We must continue to be alert and uncompromising on
true security issues.

‘We must continue to insist on the equitable treatment
of Hitler's victims and their heirs.

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 20 ---
We must help the Germans solve as rapidly as pos-
sible the critical social and economic problems of Ger-
many — serious problems which the rise in production
figures tends to conceal. We must encourage the estab-
lishment of a free economy. At the same time we must
take measures to prohibit Germany from joining any
international cartel.

We should maintain, as far as lies within our power,

a unified policy with respect to Germany among the F

three occupying powers of the West — Britain, France
and the United States,

We should bend every effort to encourage Germany
to take, if need be, the first steps to bring about a true
partnership of western Europe and induce the other
western European powers to accept this principle for
themselves and for Germany, I feel convinced that this
concept of western European unity and partnership is
the desire and will of the common people of Europe and
it should not be denied them.

We should continue to press and encourage the Ger-
man government and people to adopt liberal, progressive
measures throughout Germany, whether or not these
measures are within our powers to dictate.

We must encourage and stimulate every effort to give
the youth of Germany justified hope in the future, Here
I think is our greatest challenge and hope. We Ameri-
cans are peculiarly fitted to help the Germans toward
the goal of democratization. It is my intention and that
of my staff in Germany to reinvigorate our whole pro-
gram in this field, We shall use all our power and re-
sources — and they are large — to help the schools and
universities, the trade unions and churches, the press
and radio, in other words all those institutions which
are the bulwarks of freedom. Here we Americans in
Germany are taking, as we should, the lead and in the year
it is my hope that we shall make real progress in this.

KNOW THERE will be setbacks, and you must be pre-

pared for them. But I have tried to give you tonight
the reasons why I have hope that the Germany of
tomorrow will not be the Germany of yesterday.

We face a hard task in Germany. But if we remain
firm and united against any backsliding, if we continue
at the same time to encourage the best Germans, we
have good reason for hope. Within Germany itself, I
firmly believe, there exist spiritual resources from which
can emerge a peaceful, democratic state, prepared to
take its place as a true member of the western world.

+ END

(Continued from page 14)

Displaced Persons

replacements, and language training is available to all
who need or desire it. Artifical limbs are provided by IRO.
ATER THE PATIENT'S physical condition is improved
and his morale lifted, he is transfered to a regular
vocational training course, wheie he is equipped to do the
best job possible of providing for himself and his family.
At a small school in the buildings of an 18th century
monastery at Weyam, south of Munich, the IRO main-
tains a special center for blind or partially blind persons.

FEBRUARY 1950

17

There are in the US Zone 59 totally blind persons who
have 50 dependents. In addition, the IRO cares for 171
who are partially blind. At Weyarn they are taught to
ead and write in Braille and learn leather working,
Weaving and brushmaking.

Because the IRO will close its residence camps on or
before the end of June 1950, and will withdraw the last
of its personnel and services before April 1, 1951, special
attention is being given to the problems of the displaced
persons who are unwilling to return to their home lands
because of fear of political, racial or religious perse-
cution, and who have had no opportunity to resettle in
new countries.

HE IRO POSITION is that a displaced person who

remains in Germany should do so under the best pos-
sible conditions, according to J. Donald Kingsley, director
general in Geneva. In a statement to the IRO general
council last September, Mr. Kingsley stressed the desir-
ability of obtaining assurances that the “German authori-
ties will continue to provide a satisfactory status for
both self supporting DP/refugees and those who require
to be maintained or assisted out of public funds.”

“We feel that displaced persons remaining here should
enjoy equal privileges with German citizens to seek
employment, to enter business, to secure housing and,
when they require iit, to receive public assistance or in-
stitutional care," explained Phillip E, Ryan, chief of
operations for IRO in the US Zone.

“The problem of the displaced persons is reserved to
HICOG under terms of the Occupation Statute. It is our
hope that through the cooperation and understanding of
these officials, and officials of the German government,
this principle will be recognized and those who must re-
main here may do so with the minimum difficulty to
themselves and to the German people.” -++ END

Dr. Ludwig Weickman, director of the German Zonal
Meteorological Organization (US), is presented scroll by
Col, Nicholas H. Chevasse, commanding officer of the
2105th Air Weather Group, in ceremony at USAFE head-
quarters at Wiesbaden. The scroll gratefully acknowl-
edged the zonal organization's contribution in ‘“volun-
teering both personnel and facilities which assisted in
providing the exacting meteorological service for the
Berlin Airlift.” (USAFE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Death was right around the corner for little Frederich Staden, until a US Resident Officer in Frederich's Wuerttemberg-
Baden home town came to his aid. At the age of one and a half, Frederich (at left) was suffering a rare disease which
threatened his life unless bananas could be obtained in constant supply. Out of the Resident Officer's pocket, and
as a result of a zone-wide appeal came enough funds to buy the needed bananas. The picture at right shows Frederich
chubby and smiling happily six months later — completely recovered and with his weight increased eight pounds.

ITTLE FREDERICH STADEN, two-year-old German
1B orphan, is alive and healthy today after being re-
prieved from death by the intervention of a US Resident
Officer.

Frederich, suffering from ‘Coeliakie,’ a rare disease,
was despaired of by doctors in the Ludwigsburg County
Hospital, in Wuerttemberg-Baden, unless a_ sufficient
quantity of bananas could be made available to cure his
fatal ailment.

Thomas D. Griswold, US Resident Officer for Ludwigs-
burg, hearing of the youngster’s plight, began supplying
the essential banana diet with fruit purchased out of his
own pocket from the local PX. An appeal by Griswold
to American personnel of the Office of the Land Com-
missioner, Wuerttemberg-Baden netted $164.85 within

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

four hours, and brought the case to the attention of Stars
and Stripes, the American Forces Network and Radio
Stuttgart.

From then on donations rolled into Griswold for the
little boy. Americans in Berlin, Frankfurt, Giessen and
other cities sent contributions while Germans in the area
came forward with Deutsche marks and varied offers of
help. British personnel telephoned offers of assistance
from their zone while a special package of bananas was
rushed from the Saar.

As gifts and contributions mounted up, it became
necessary to broadcast an appeal to stop the flow of
money and bananas. Six months after Frederich entered
the county hospital, desperately ill, he was discharged,
completely restored to health. + END

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 22 ---
Good Neighbor Week

Hessian County Successful in Social Experiment
For Community Cooperation and Better Housing

By JOHN W. JERGENSON

HE ACUTE LOCAL housing situa-

tion in the rural county of Fried-
berg in Hesse was directly respon-
sible last summer for the inauguration
of an unusual social experiment among
the Germans which proved so success-
ful that it is expected to become a
yearly institution and has fired the
imagination of people in neighboring
counties.

This plan was originated by
Mr. Jergenson while he was
serving as the US local repre-
sentative in Friedberg county.
With the rotation of personnel
and reorganization accompany-
ing the advent of the High Com-
mission in Germany, Mr. Jergen-
son was transferred to Fritzlar
County, where he is now serv-
ing as US resident officer.

The week was scheduled from August
27 through September 4 and the aid
of the local German newspapers and
radio was solicited. Because of its
novelty, the idea became a “natural”
for publicity stunts and promotion.
Several newspapers set aside a certain
amount of space each day for the
development of the program while on
the occupation side, military post or-

Lack of sufficient housing through-
out the county of 143,000 population was the dominant
theme of public forums and discussion groups early last
spring and summer and the subject of bitter disputes
between the local housing committee and the people.
With hundreds of homeless refugees aggravating the
situation, tension between the new and older residents
of this rich farming area became more and more apparent.

In an atmosphere charged with cross-currents of public
feeling German officials and civic minded leaders sat
down with the US Resident Officer to plan remedial
measures to ease the tight housing outlook.

Out of these talks was evolved the “Good Neighbor
Week" plan — a carnival week for and by the people
devoted to all forms of entertainment and to be partici-
pated in by the entire county with the proceeds flow-
ing back to the people in the form of a fund for housing
purposes. “Aufbau durch gute Nachbarschaft" (Recon-
struction through Good Neighborship) was adopted as the
slogan for the program and the idea immediately en-
tered the planning stage.

COMMITTEE of German representatives, a cross

section of the county life, was selected. The com-
mittee consisted of 20 members and included county of-
ficials, church leaders, businessmen, craftsmen, repre-
sentatives of women’s groups and farmers. To insure
impartiality in the program development, the US resi-
dent officer was selected as chairman.

The next step was to secure the backing of the mayors
of each of the 71 communities in the county who in
turn would select a Good Neighbor committee in his
Tespective community which would be representative
of the same groups comprising the county committee.
Each community committee, organized on a smaller scale
than the higher county one, would have at least five
Committee members plus the mayor who was to act as
chairman. With this ground work for the program com-
Pleted it was then necessary to sell the idea to the
People themselves.

FEBRUARY 1950

3)

gans and the Stars and Stripes gave
the week wide coverage.

An essay contest for school children on “What can
I do to better the good neighbor spirit? was conducted
by the county superintendent with a free Rhine River
cruise going to the winners of the 20 best essays.

Y SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT with the US © Con-

stabulary, three planes flying over the county
dropped 20,000 pamphlets promoting the Good Neighbor
theme while 20 of these pamphlets with specia] markings
earned 20 DM ($4.76) for those lucky enough to find
them. One of the winning pamphlets floated into a man's
kitchen window giving real meaning to the old saying,
“Good luck landed in his lap."

The county administrator and the Resident Officer
gave speeches in the four cities in Friedberg county
explaining the rea] goal and necessity of the week.
In an effort to keep each town and village informed of
the progress in programming, a Good Neighbor bulletin
was issued by the Resident Officer twice a month and
sent to all 71 mayors. Through the bulletin the working
committees of each community were informed on each
new idea and all work completed to date.

On August 27 the first Good Neighbor Week in Europe
began in each small community throughout Friedberg
county. American occupation officials and represen-
tatives of the German government came to the town
of Friedberg to inaugurate the week and to participate
in the opening ceremonies. A US Army band highlighted
the occasion with a concert in the market place followed
by a football match between a German and a British
team. The day was marked by sporting events, folk
dancing, feasts and concerts on a countywide scale
while at night colored lights outlined the silhouette of
ancient Friedberg castle.

HHROUGHOUT THE WEEK entertainments varying
from horse shows to garden festivals and a two
orchestra openair dance with 5,000 people jamming Bad
(Continued on page 22)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Dog's day—Snooks, a scotty, at right; Arion, the curious dachshund; and Troll, the friendly schaeferhund, await their
turn (left) at the Small Animal Clinic. Kwan Yin (Goddess of Mercy), a chow puppy, and his playmate Shanghai Bruce
are registered at the desk by Mrs Walter Rundle. The clinic services ailing pets in a 50-mile radius of Frankfurt.

Small Animal Clinie

EADING A DOG'S LIFE in Frankfurt is not such a
bad existence after all—at least for patients of the
military post's Small Animal Clinic located in a wing of
the Dental Clinic building near HICOG Headquarters.
The clinic services the ailing pets of US and Allied
personnel spread out through a 50-mile radius of Frank-
furt in addition to examining German owned dogs re-
ported for biting.
Open five mornings weekly, the clinic averages between

30 and 40 animals a day. By mid-morning most of the '

patients have arrived and their mingled voices in the
waiting room would terrify all but the most ardent
canine fancier.

During the past year more than 7,900 patients were
treated at the clinic for ills ranging from distemper to
broken nails. The great majority of the pets are dogy
although out of last year's number one percent were
cats. Other patients included one fox, one deer and four
canaries.

CCORDING TO Major Arthur Hogge, post veterinarian,
35 to 40 percent of the dogs are treated for respira-
tory complaints including distemper, colds, bronchitis
and pneumonia; 15 percent of the animals are processed
for shipment to the United States, and the remainder
suffer from skin diseases, digestive troubles and injuries.
The clinic has recently expanded to include minor
surgery such as ear and tail trimming.
The largest number of patients are boxers with
schaeferhunds (police dogs) running a close second and
dachshunds coming in third. Pets brought to the clinic

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

are first registered at the desk, Name, age and breed
are duly noted along with the animal's complaint and
cross-filed under both the owner's and pet's name. On
subsequent visits the animal's complete record and past
medical history are readily available in the files.

Under the care of German veterinary Dr. Guenter Rup-
pel, patients are examined, their trouble diagnosed and
treatment given. Diagnosis and treatment are free and
owners pay only a nominal fee for medicines provided
by the clinic. During the past year this has amounted
to approximately 16 cents per patient.

MONG OTHER FUNCTIONS the clinic serves as a
“marriage bureau" or lonely hearts club for animals
which have lacked the opportunity to meet others of
their own breed. Files are made available to owners who
wish to mate their pets but who don't quite know what ~
to do about it. The rarer breeds among the animal life
in Frankfurt have taken greatest advantage of the ser-
vice. Skye terriers, Irish setters and Siamese cats, in
particular, have availed themselves of this opportunity.
Telephone calls swamp the clinic from worried owners
of hypochondriac pets querying the veterinary on a wide
variety of subjects. Recently a hysterical owner of a
healthy collie called the clinic. "I am expecting company
for dinner and have baked a chocolate cake,’ the woman
said. “My collie ate the cake and the company will
arrive any minute! What shall I do?"
In addition to the Small Animal Clinic, the post
veterinarian has medical charge of 250 army dogs used
for guard and sentry duty; 450 hogs at the Frankfurt

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 24 ---
This little pig (left) will go to the Officers’ Club when ‘he grows‘up. Dr. Guenter Ruppel, veterinary at the Small Ani-
mal Clinic, treats one of the army dogs used for guard duty. The dog, an ugly customer to all but his trainer, is tightly

muzzled, and held quiet during ear operation.

Military Post pig farm which are regularly inspected for
edibility and used for post mess sections, and 17 riding
horses at Kronberg, + END

6,000th Youth Leader Trained
By Community Activities Branch

HICOG’s Community Activities Branch has trained its
6,000th youth leader. This training program, conducted by
HICOG and by the state commission youth officers,
consists of short-term courses at five resident schools in
Berlin, Hesse, ‘Wuerttemberg-Baden and Bavaria.

“At first," said Lawrence E. Norrie, chief of Commun-
ity Activities Branch, Education and
Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, “training was done
entirely through organized courses,
Later, a Rockefeller grant made pos-
sible replacing early courses with per-
manent leadership training schools.
These schools are now financed jointly
by special HICOG grants-in-aid, by
Rockefeller funds, and by a contribu-
tion from German sources, amounting
to 40 percent of the total budget.”

Training courses, it was explained,
are all “short term" in order to permit
German workers to attend. Emphasis
1s on teaching leaders how to conduct
a discussion, on social psychology,
democratic leadership and on the tech-
niques of working with groups.

Riding horses at Kronberg, near Frank-
furt, receive weekly medical inspec-
tion from the veterinarian of the Post.

FEBRUARY 1950

21

(All photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Special attention has been given to providing books,
pamphlets and manuals for youth leaders. A magazine,
Wir Alle (We All) is now published and distributed to
more than 10,000 leaders throughout the US Zone. A
circulating library has 9,000 books and magazines on
youth activities and leadership. The Hessian Camping
Association has sold 5,000 copies of its new handbook
and is now getting out a second edition.

These schools report participation as follows: Berlin,
60 courses, 1,800 students; Ruit, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
50 courses, 1,500 students; Starnberg, Bavaria, 28 courses,
750 students; Haus Schwalbach, Hesse, 12 courses, 300
students; Oberreifenberg, Hesse, 40 courses, 1,200 students.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
US High Commissioner for Germany
John J. McCloy gives his smiling con-
gratulations to Maj. General George
P. Hays, deputy high commissioner,
after presentation to the general of a
cluster to his Distinguished Service
Medal for his work as deputy military
governor and deputy high commis-
sioner since August 1947, Present at
the ceremony, shown at left, were
General Thomas T, Handy, command-
ing general of EUCOM, and Lt. General
Clarence Huebner, commanding gen-
eral USAEUR. Mr, McCloy made the

presentation.
(US Army photo)

Gen. Hays Decorated

M*: GEN. GEORGE P. HAYS, deputy US high com-
missioner for Germany, was awarded an Oak Leaf
Cluster to his Distinguished Service Medal in recognition
of outstanding Military Government service from August
1947 to July 1949. The award was presented by US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy at a ceremony in the
HICOG Headquarters building.

The citation accompanying the award declared: “Major
General Hays distinguished himself by exceptionally
meritorious service in a duty of great responsibility from
August 1947 to July 1949. As representative of the United
States on the important coordinating committee of the
Allied Control Council, he proved a negotiator of ex-
ceptional ability and conducted himself with distinction
in the critical period prior to the refusal of the Soviet
delegation to participate in future deliberations.

“As deputy military governor, he demonstrated great
administrative ability in coordinating and supervising the
field forces of Military Government and their relationships
with German officials. He exhibited outstanding diplomacy
and intelligent leadership in the solution of problems
arising out of the initial step taken in the establishment
of a western German government.

“General Hays’ outstanding demonstration of leadership,
courage and ability in a position of utmost responsibility
and importance reflects great credit upon him and the
Armed Forces of the United States.”

In addition to the Distinguished Service Medal, General
Hays has been awarded the following decorations during
two world wars: The Congressional Medal of Honor,
Silver Star with Cluster, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star,
Purple Heart, French Legion of Honor Chevalier and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

Commander, Croix de Guerre with Palm, British Com-
panion of the Bath, Italian War Cross and the Brazilian ‘
Medalle Militaire.

In August 1947, General Hays reported to General
Lucius D. Clay, US Military Governor, as his deputy, and
upon General Clay's departure last May was delegated
full authority in all US Military Government matters until
Mr. McCloy took over as the US High Commissioner. He
was appointed deputy high commissioner Sept. 19, 1949.

-++ END

(Continued from page 19)

Good Neighbor Week

Nauheim's Sprudelhof gave evidence to the people's
kinship with the Good Neighbor idea. Staid citizens
danced in the streets till early morning while enjoying
their share in the community enterprise.

According to the final reports of the mayors through-
out the county, DM 350,000 ($83,000) was collected, in-
cluding donations of land building materials and, in
some cases, working hours contributed for construction
of new houses.

Apart from the financial success, the entire venture,
which is expected to be repeated this year, accomplished
its aim of good neighborliness among the old and new
residents. Working together in a common aim, their new
houses have been furnished by community action and
not by the old German appeal to their government to
solve the problems confronting them. + END

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 26 ---
Mission for 1950

NTEREST HERE seems to center on
the reported resurgence of nation-
alism or Nazism in Germany. Those
with whom I have talked since arriv-
ing in Washington have said: "Yes, we
know about the remarkable economic

By RALPH NICHOLSON

Director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

This is a condensation of a
speech given by Mr. Nicholson
before the National Conference
on the Occupied Countries in
Washington, Dec. 10. The con-
ference was sponsored by the
Commission on the Occupied

the East. We must remember, too, that
traditionally the German people have
possessed a great capacity for being
organized—a willingness to take orders
from above. They can only achieve
democracy by practicing it.

progress in Germany, that production
is nearing the 1936 level and that re-
cent harvests were good." Of course,

Areas,
Education.

American Council on

Occasional anti-democratic incidents
can be expected, but such incidents

they also know how much American

taxpayers have contributed and are still contributing to
this economic recovery. Then they add, ‘We are aware,
loo, of the political-governmental progress’ and seem
to believe that this is much more substantial and en-
couraging than it might have been but they ask, “What
about the democratization of the German people as in-
dividuals, and of their schools, universities, government
and newspapers?”

Mr. McCloy answered this question recently by distin-
guishing between healthy patriotism and sinister national-
ism. He said that there was undoubtedly some of
the latter in Germany but that never in his experience
was so much thought and attention being given as now
to making Germany democratic.

In Time Magazine for December 5 appears this state-
ment: “Germans who have never shown any talent for
democracy are today corroded by 16 years’ dictatorship,
war and defeat. They have probably made greater prog-
tess toward democracy than the United States had a
right to expect on V-E Day.”

Chancellor Adenauer is quoted in the Time article as
Stating: “During the Nazi years I sometimes despaired
of my people but afterwards I realized that much decency
had survived; something good can and must be made of
the Germans.”

I agree with Chancellor Adenauer that much decency
has survived in Germany.

The New York Times said editorially on December 2:
“The Germans never had democracy in our sense of the
word. To expect German democracy now or in the im-
mediate future is to court certain disappointment. Up to
@ point we must expect a recrudescence and survival of
nationalism and even of Nazism. The game will not be
lost unless the exponents of these theories get control
or win a decisive following.”

1 Nee WE MAKING PROGRESS in enabling the decency

to be decisive? Is there evidence of achievement and
of a sound basis for hope for the future? My answer is
yes to both questions. Parenthetically, though, I suggest
that we must be realistic. Democracy with shallow roots
must be well and carefully nourished to survive, espe-
Clally in an area where such high winds blow in from

FEBRUARY 1950

23

must not be allowed to divert us from
our mission, nor should they be con-
strued to mean that our progress has been seriously inter-
rupted. Our task there is to help and guide and encourage
the Germans of vision and good will to lead their nation
in the right direction.

Interested persons here asked me if the reappearance
of former civil servants in the vast bureaucracy of Ger-
many means that we and the many Germans who want
democracy to be attained in their country, have already
lost the battle.

General Hays answered this question most convin-
cingly at a recent meeting with a Congressional com-
mittee in Frankfurt. He said to remember that most of
these people were Nazi followers, not leaders. They
went through the various stages of denazification and
were returned to their former positions or were appointed
to new ones. Many of them had been in government
service since the days of the Weimar Republic. They
stayed on in their jobs, selling stamps, teaching school
and pushing papers or people around under Hitler. They
were experienced civil servants.

HEN THE RESTRICTIONS were removed, there was

a choice as to whether they should be reemployed or
pensioned. The former course was followed, partly for rea-
sons of economy. This may be regrettable but it is not re-
garded as necessarily menacing or sinister. It is better to
have these people working under supervision and subject
authorities and by in-

to observation by the German
direction by the Occupation
Authorities than to allow them
to become a disgruntled unem-
ployed class vulnerable to neo-
Nazi schemers.

Another question that I have
been asked concerns the Ger-
man newspapers. Persons here
are disturbed over the reports
that since the licensing restric-
tions were removed last June by
the Military Government, the

Mr. Ralph Nicholson
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 27 ---
German press has fallen into the hands of the old Nazi
owners and publishers.

You and I need never apologize for demonstrating
faith in a free and unshackled press. In effect, our
government demonstrated this faith when, under Military
Government, licensing was discontinued. We are now
concerned with what happened subsequently and the
outlook for the future. I think examination of the record
will show that on the whole the situation is much better
than might have been expected.

Two things could have happened. The newspapers
that were licensed in the American zone after careful
investigation and whose performance on the whole was
good, could have changed their character and perform-
ance. The vast majority did not do so. They continued
to publish much the same kind of newspapers that they
had been licensed to turn out under Military Govern-
ment. The careful advance vettings and confidence placed
in the editors and publishers were justified. Performance
since June, in the main, has been creditable.

The other thing that could have happened was that
as soon as restrictions were removed a vast horde of
nationalistic papers could have started that would have
been so appealing to the German people as to drive
the licensed newspapers out of business. That didn’t
happen. On June 1, when licensing was discontinued,
there were 59 licensed newspapers in the American Zone
with an average circulation of about 70,000 copies. Since
then 650 new newspapers have been established. They
are principally weekly and smal] town dailies with
circulations ranging from 2,000 to 3,000 copies. Less than
half a dozen have reached a circulation of 20,000 copies.
Only one is known to have a circulation in excess of
50,000 and it is being published in a city where the two
ex-licensed newspapers have circulations respectively of
140,000 and 160,000.

[eces DOWN the long road to peace and demo-
cracy, it is too early to say that the free press initiated
by our occupation will endure and will continue to play
a guiding role. But we can say that the newspapers
we helped into being are now beyond the incubation
stage, and that, on the whole, theirs is a record of good
and solid past performance which we shall continue
to assist.

In no large city in the American zone has the domi-
nate position of the old established papers been threat-
ened by newcomers to the field up to this point. In fact,
in many of the cities no additional newspapers of
general circulation have been established. The reason,
I think, is self evident and is eloquent evidence of the
acceptability to the German people of the sound per-
formance of the democratic press in Germany.

On the whole, the uninteresting or inadequate news
coverage of the new papers is in sharp contrast with the
more complete and objective reporting of the established
journals. They have staffs of skilled politically responsible
journalists and have won public confidence by their
efficient reporting and their determination to prevent a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

recurrence of government-controlled press or the reestab-
lishment of undemocratic practices.

The road ahead is not completely clear of obstacles.
Many of the ex-licensed newspapers are being published
in leased plants which are owned by former Nazi pub-
lishers. In some cases, efforts doubtless will be made to
upset these leases. The High Commission is alert to this
danger and is prepared to cope with it when it arises.

The new newspapers have displayed a tendency to-
ward sharp criticism of Allied policies in Germany. In
so doing, though, up to now they have kept within
reasonable bounds. Their nationalistic practices and sen-
sational news treatment have not attracted audiences.

F AND WHEN the performance of the old or new papers

is in conflict with Allied High Commission Law No. 5,
the provisions of that law will become operative. This
means that the Allied High Commission may prohibit
persons or publications from continuing in the publishing
or radio business for a definite or indefinite period of
time, if such action is deemed necessary in order to
protect the prestige or security of the Allied forces.

I have also been asked if it is true that we have made
little progress in the field of education. As I see it, it
would be specious at best, perhaps even dishonest if I
were to try to give you a glib “yes” or “no” answer.
Field experts disagree and I assume that wide areas of
disagreement could be found among you. But that is not
our problem today. We would find scant profit in ex-
ploring any shortcomings that may have occurred in the
past merely to set up a chorus of wailing dirges. The «
issue that confronts us is—where do we go from here?

We do the best we can, utilizing all of the tools we
can command in every field of activity, to stimulate the
growth of democracy in Germany.

We are continuing to expose the vital elements, the
new leaders of all walks of German life to the operations
of democracy in our own society. Democracy cannot be
simply explained. It must be seen, lived with, worked
with. For the same reason, our exchange program is
being greatly enlarged. We need impacts that are broad
and reach deeply.

And our job goes even further, deeper. The achieve-
ments in political and economic rehabilitation must not
be allowed to lead to a new form of adventurous nation-
alism. You and I need not apologize for the hundreds
of millions that have been spent to sustain life in the
German people. What we must resolve is that an effort
of no lesser scope be made to achieve healthy, balanced
democratic German minds.

S I SEE IT, it will take a generous and courageous
effort on the part of our government and on the part
of the American people to bring about the participation
of the German people in their own social and political
structures in a style and to a degree that will reflect
democratic re-education.
One of our principal concems is to do everything
we can to stimulate greater long-term interest and

activity in Germany on the part of non-governmental
(Continued on Page 30)

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 28 ---
Report to the People

HE END OF THE YEAR 1949 found Germany almost

at the end of a complete cycle — from complete
economic control to practically complete economic free-
dom. For example, at the beginning of 1949, German
foreign trade was tightly supervised by the American,
British and French Joint Export-Import Agency — JEIA.
In the course of the 12 months of that year, the controls
were gradually relaxed, the supervision relinquished,
until now, the Joint Export-Import Agency is in liqui-
dation, with most of its authority transferred to Ger-
man agencies.

The High Commission maintains only the most general
supervision of German economic affairs, with the federal
government being given every opportunity to prove
themselves and the people they represent as a produc-
tive partner in European recovery.

That 1949 was the most colorful year of the occupation
history was granted by almost everyone, and several
significant events which occured in December helped
to make it so. Germany made several impressive forward
moves in the progress toward democratization, not the
least important of which was the signing of a bilateral
agreement between the Federal Republic and the United
States,

This agreement gives German authorities full responsi-
bility for the use of Marshall Plan funds, and was signed
by Mr. John J. McCloy, representing the United States,
and Dr. Konrad Adenauer, signing for the German
government. Many felt it to represent the most important
economic event in Germany since currency reform, for
its terms provided that the funds formerly administered
by American Military Governors are now wholly and
completely available for use by the German leaders
as they see fit. Thus, Germany is accorded the same
status as the other Marshall Plan nations, and its
responsibility covers the use of a fund of almost
$1,000,000,000 a year.

HEN HE AFFIXED his signature to this document,
Dr. Adenauer bound his government to a number
of things over and above the promise to make the best
Possible use of this tremendous fund. His pledge included
the following points:
1. To promote the most efficient industrial and
agricultural production possible.
2. To stabilize German currency.
3. To reduce trade restrictions in cooperation
with other nations in the best employment of labor.
4. To eliminate unfair and restrictive business
practice.

Western Germany, once more the most powerful in-
dustrial nation on the continent, had thus agreed to
throw all its economic might behind the imperative
drive for the recovery of Europe.

* Broadcast over AFN Jan. 6, 1950.

FEBRUARY 1950

IHE POLICE of western Germany received their full

share of attention during December. Many obser-
vers, German and others alike, had expressed fears
that such an agency could very readily become the
nucleus of another German army. In order to forestall
any remote possibility of this taking place, the Allied
High Commission announced a new security measure
on Dec. 2.

It issued instructions that German police cannot be
so centralized as to constitute a threat to democratic
government.

Included in these instructions from the High Commis-
sioners were limitations to the number and armament
of the police. Then, to make doubly certain that no
police agency could grow large enough to dominate the
government and establish a police state, the High Com-
mission ordered that independent cities and districts
maintain their own independent police forces. Even the
statewide organization of rural police, which had been
permitted under Military Government, must now be
split up into smaller groups.

The final month of the year also saw the cessation of
the licensing requirements for political parties which
had prevailed under Military Government. This new
provision for political freedom allowed the Germans to
create new political parties without any restrictions ex-
cept one—no Nazi organization would be allowed to be
reborn.

Kenneth E. Dayton, chief of the Internal Political
Affairs Division, commented that it would now be a

Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner,
presents certificate to Mrs. Elizabeth Kuep, Amerika Haus
librarian in Munich, at ceremonies which marked the end
of the first US Information Centers library school in the

American zone, (PRB OLCB photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Bound for the United States, four German doctors depart
Berlin's Tempelhof Airport on the first leg of the journey
which was designed for study of latest developments in
special medical fields. Dr. Fritz Hussels, at left, bids his
wife, Dr. Katharina Hussels, director of Berlin-Zehlendori
Health Office, goodbye, as Dr. Hannelore Kuehnell, pedia-
trician, Dr. Wolfgang Henry, bacteriological research
specialist, and Dr. Gerda Ludwig, psychiatrist, talk to-
gether before boarding plane. Other west zone doctors
joined them at Bremerhaven for the trip. _ (US Army photo)

responsibility of the German voters to weed out the
nationalistic and undemocratic parties that might at-
tempt to organize, and to support those political ele-
ments which demonstrated that they sought to preserve
and strenghten democracy.

OW WELL the Germans were progressing in this

direction was the subject of a speech by Mr. Ralph
Nicholson, director of the HICOG Office of Public Affairs,
which was delivered at a Washington conference of the
Commission for Occupied Areas. Mr. Nicholson pointed
out that the Germans had a tradition for the “follow the
leader" type of government, but that the tradition seemed
to have been broken.

He also said that one of his immediate tasks was to
recruit qualified Americans for HICOG — Americans who
could guide and encourage Germans of vision and
good will along the path to democracy. One such recruit
who would soon join HICOG is Dr. James M. Read,
outstanding American educator, who will assume the
post of chief of the Education and Cultural Relations
Division.

Dec, 16 marked the passing of another law to insure
that the German state will not deviate into the old
militaristic and Nazi mold. In a law which is known
as “The Law on Elimination of Militarism and Nazism,"
the Allied High Commission repealed all previous Allied
decrees on this subject, and codified them into a few
basic principles,

This regulation prohibits any activity in Germany
which would promote the resurgence of militarism and
the manufacture of weapons or any other materials
which would contribute to German rearmament. It also
prohibits all military or Nazi organizations, and provides

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

fines and imprisonment up to and including life terms
for violations.

UT OF THE ROARING furnaces and rumbling mills

of the Ruhr industries have come Germany's war
machines. That another one does not emerge from the
now reestablished Ruhr industry is a great concern of
the Allied High Commission, and of the world. In
another security measure which came into full force
on Dec. 16, the Federal Republic of Germany formally
joined the Internationa] Ruhr Authority. According to
the authority's charter, the distribution of the Ruhr's
riches, and the administration of its industries will be
determined by the United States, the United Kingdom
and Germany, with three votes each, and the Benelux
countries — Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg —
with one vote each.

On Dec. 23, HICOG's Information Services Division
made a report available to the public, and at the same
time sounded a note of warning to the Germans. The
survey revealed that the majority of the German citi-
zenry had little interest in politics, were ignorant of
major provisions in their own constitution, and could
not even name their own state ministers president.

The overwhelming turnout for the elections of last
August, approximately 85 percent, meant little since a
majority did not even understand the issues of the
elections. HICOG officials warned ithat if US Zone
Germans did not develop a more active political interest
and civic responsibility, the new democratic government
might be jeopardized. Said Mr. McCloy on the subject:

“I think that above everything else, for the New Year,
we must see more and more evidence in the German
body politic of the sense of responsibility of the indi-
vidual citizen, the feeling in the community that the
people of the community are responsible for their
government, and that the government is responsible
for them.”

One of the most important events of the month in
HICOG was a conference of all US resident officers on
Dec. 12 and 13, Some 150 of these HICOG field represen-
tatives gathered in Frankfurt to hear the remarks of
top HICOG officials on the latest American policies
in Germany. They were gratified to hear that Mr. McCloy
and his staff representatives considered these fields of
key importance in reeducating and reorienting the Ger-
mans toward democracy. They were urged to exert their
extreme efforts now, in this critical time of reassumption
by the Germans of their own Government.

S 1949 DREW to a close, HICOG officials looked
back on 12 months of the most significant events

in Germany since the end of the war and the signing
of the Potsdam agreement. During the year, the world
saw two Germanys emerging from the ruins of the Third
Reich. One — the Germany of the east, was quickly re-
cognized by the free world as headed toward the
slavery of a Soviet-satellite state. The other — the Federal
Republic of Germany — was gradually moving under
Allied guidance, to membership in the society of free
nations as a democratic and peaceful state. + END

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 30 ---
ECA Agreement Signed

ITH THE SIGNING of the US-Germany ECA agree-

ment at Bonn, the fledgling Federal Republic assum-_

ed full partnership in the 18-nation endeavor to restore
Europe's economic self-sufficiency. The international
agreement was the first major one in the Republic's
history, and it signalled a new era in postwar Germany's
status,

On the heels of this agreement came the release of
DM_ 1,036,000,000 ($246,568,000) in ECA counterpart
funds, to flow into thirsting German power companies,
industry, agriculture and housing.

The two events heralded significant changes in Ger-
many both internally and externally.

Germany now steps forward to link arms with 17 other
nations at the Office of European Economic Cooperation
(OEEC) roundtable in Paris, in the cooperative movement
to make viable the European economy. A representative
of the Federal Republic has taken over the chair formerly
occupied by an American delegate or English deputy — or
later, by an interim German representative.

At home the Germans, having drawn up a comprehensive
plan for investment of ECA funds, are administering the
first sizable lump of marks made available to them for
industrial pump-priming.

EW PRIVILEGES and new responsibilities accorded

the German state are detailed in the ECA agreement
(see page 44), Many, of course, are identical with those
signed by other participants. But there are a few specific
restrictions and requirements,

The pact states concisely that all American aid re-
presents a claim against Germany, to be repaid when
proceeds from German exports allow it. ECA’s aid to
the German state will all be in the form of a loan, with
no outright grants included.

The Federal Republic, geographically and administra-
tively separate from West Berlin, will include the west
sectors of the former capital in its economic planning
and use of funds.

Obligations incurred by US, British and French Military
Governors or High Commissioners prior to the signing
will now be assumed by the German government. Among
these will probably be money paid out for the airlift,
emergency gasoline and food stocks brought in by the
army, and advances made by the US Military Govern-
ment to German banking agencies.

Other differences in the German-US ECA agreement in-
clude an administrative clause, specifying that counterpart
fund accounts are to be established for both ECA and
GARIOA (Government and Relief in Occupied Areas, US
Ammy-administered) aid. Funds in both accounts will be
merged for simultaneous distribution on ECA projects.

The remaining provisions are the same: Germany joins
OEEC, will work with it toward European economic self-
Sufficiency. It will cooperate in helping the United States
to stockpile strategic and critical materials available in
Germany. Tourism will be encouraged to boost Germany's

FEBRUARY 1950

oF

dollar assets. So that the United States can keep tabs
on the workings of the program, consultation machinery
will be established. At such time as foreign private in-
vestment is allowed in Germany, the Republic will co-
operate in the ECA guarantee of investment program.
And to tell the story behind the acquisition of ECA
funds, the progress of German economy under its
sponsorship, the Federal Republic agreed to conduct a
publicity program which will include the vending of
quarterly Marshall Plan reports to German readers,
But perhaps most immediately significant to the German
economy was the release of counterpart funds to re-
suscitate its flagging industries. Six hundred million
Deutsche marks were available at once; the DM 436,000,000
balance awaited for its release the presentation by
Germany of a comprehensive investment program.

HE COUNTERPART FUND account, withheld until the
Germans had initiated an acceptable plan for its in-

vestment, had been accumulated in the following way:
Since Germany had joined ECA in 1947, German firms had
been ordering goods and machinery from outside countries
which were paid for in dollars by ECA. Upon arrival of
the machinery in Germany it was paid for in marks by
the firm receiving it; but since it had already once been
paid for in dollars, the marks were put into a special
account which remained at the disposal of ECA. It is
marks of this sort that were released on Dec. 16, 1949.

These counterpart funds will form the basis of revol-
ving capital to be lent to needy segments of the economy
on a long-term credit basis. sf

ECA, in approving the release, asked the most favor-
able terms feasible in farming out the loans: ‘The rate
of interest charged to the ultimate user should be at the
minimum compatible with the objective to attract funds
other than counterpart, and funds deblocked should reach
their ultimate user as expediticusly as possible.”

Four major divisions of the economy stood to profit
from the initial outgo.

N ALL, BERLIN will receive DM 95,000,000, a sum that,

according to Maj. General Maxwell D. Taylor, US
Commander, ‘means that the downward trend has ceased
and that an upswing is on the way. With this aid, Ber-
liners can hope to improve their industrial plant; get
some new machinery; and make some strides toward
raising their production...”

But this was not to be the last aid to Berlin or to all
West Germany. ECA held out the added lure of further
counterpart fund withdrawals in the near future.

Of the new phase in Germany's ECA participation, US
High Commissioner McCloy had this to say:

“This occasion (signing of the ERP agreement) marks
not only a determined step forward in the emergence of
a new Germany, but advances the cause of true Euro-
pean cooperation, the creation of which is one of the
major goals in the European Recovery Program." -+ END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
US High Commissioner

Front row (left to right):

Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US Commander, Berlin.

Capt. Charles R. Jeffs (USN), State Commissioner for Bremen.

Dr. James R. Newman, State Commissioner for Hesse.

Mr, James W. Riddleberger, Director of Political Affairs.

Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, Deputy US High Commissioner.

Mr. John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner.

Mr. Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, Assistant US High Commissioner.

Mr. Robert M. Hanes, Director of Economic Affairs and Chief of ECA
Special Mission for Western Germany.

Mr. Ralph Nicholson, Director of Public Affairs.
Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, State Commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden.
Mr. Clarence M. Bolds, Acting State Commissioner for Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 32 ---
»

Or Germany and His Staff

Second row:

. Gert Whitman, Assistant for German Liaison
. Glenn G. Wolfe, Director of Administration.
. Benjamin R, Shute, Director of Intelligence.
. Chester A. McLain, General Counsel.
Lt. Col. H. Alan Gerhardt, Special Assistant to US High Commissioner.

Mr, James E. King, Jr., Executive Secretary.
Mr. Harvey W. Brown, Director of Labor Affairs.
Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges, US Commissioner, Military Security Board.

Col. Gordon E. Textor, Director of Field Division.
Mr. Guy J. Swope, Chief of Displaced Populations Division.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 33 ---
School Reform in Bavaria

HILE THERE ARE indications of progress in Bava-

tian school reform, much remains to be done in
effecting basic changes that will give democratic edu-
cational opportunity to 90 percent of Bavarian children
now limited to eight years of schooling, Dr. Dale Zeller,
US education consultant, reported to the Education and
Cultura] Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs.

These basic changes, she pointed out, require a new
curriculum based on changed aims of education, a
change in methods of instruction and a new type of
teacher education,

Dr. Zeller of Kansas State Teachers College has been
in Germany since July as consultant at the Kempfen-
hausen project in Weilheim county where its German
workshop committees are exploring and testing changes
in school organization and practice. It is a cooperative
undertaking of the Bavarian Ministry of Education, the
school staff and citizens of the Weilheim community,
and the HICOG Education and Cultural Relations Division.

Based on her experience in her second trip to Ger-
many, the first having been made in 1948, Dr. Zeller
recommended the development of a long-term policy
to assist those Germans who recognize that a democratic
government must be supported by a democratic schoo}
system.

These recommendations included the following: Ex-
tending the program of school change ultimately to
every county in Bavaria through a US Education Service
Center, creation of a long-term curriculum revision plan

Lt. John S. Pallatin, GYA officer at Hersfeld, wanted to
do something for the ill-clad German children in his com-
munity. He wrote to the Bendix Local Union No. 9 in
his home town of South Bend, Ind., asking a collection of
used clothing. The first shipment of 1,300 pounds arrived
for Christmas. Here Lt. Pallatin and children — the poten-
tial recipients — watch as clothing is unloaded from plane

that carried it to Rhine/Main Air Base, (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

£

which begins at the grass roots, and utilizing the
services of the best available educational personnel
from the United States either in a full time capacity or
as consultants to assist German educational authorities.
She urged that elementary school teachers sent to the
United States under the exchange program be in pro-
portion to the percentage of children in elementary
schools and that every effort be made to utilize their
services when they return to Germany.
De Zeller further recommended that steps be taken
immediately to establish education research in order
to give German authorities more opportunity to study

their own problems, and development of a program of
child guidance for all teachers,

Despite reluctant cooperation of certain groups in
working for school reform, Dr. Zeller declared there
are “heartening and positive elements” in the Kempfen-
hausen project.

Insistence that all talks in the workshops there be
open for discussion now finds Germans asking a wider
range of questions, voicing opinions and disagreeing
with instructions of education authorities. While a num-
ber of discussions have resulted in recommendations
for action, she stated, the majority of these talks are
not sufficiently pointed for action. + END

(Continued from page 24)

Mission for 1950

organizations. They can now do some things more effec-
tively than the High Commission. They can continue
their activities probably longer than the governmental
agencies will be operating in Germany. I realize that
many such American foundations, professional and busi-
ness organizations, are already doing this very effective-
ly. We welcome and urge greater participation on the
part of larger numbers and will give them every pos-
sible assistance and cooperation.

My other immediate concern is in securing just the
right persons for certain positions in the High Com-
mission organization. I am convinced that what we are
doing in Germany is of such compelling importance that
we must have the best qualified men and women in the
United States. Now more than at any previous time
these persons must be fluent in the language, acquainted
with present conditions and recent history. They must
be young and vigorous enough to keep up the fast
pace, and to put up with living conditions that leave
much to be desired. They must have had comparable
experience and above all possess a sense of mission
and a belief in the importance and attainability of the
objective. Also they must be willing to come for long
rather than short periods. + END

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 34 ---
Occupation Vignettes

“Pass the Mustard, Bitteschoen!”’

his is the story of a hot frankfurter in postwar
Berlin,

To understand this little mystery, one must first take
his mind back to peace-time Berlin. In the evenings on
the streets could be seen the gay Berlin theatergoers and
other revellers indulging in their favorite traditional
pastime— buying from street vendors a nice, fat, juicy hot
frankfurter, dipped in plenty of mustard and all washed
down with a mug of frothy beer.

This was more than a mere tradition in Berlin. It was
part of the “Berlin air'—a proud display of urbanity, its
badge of democratic sophistication. Like the bag of
peanuts or hot dog at America’s baseball and football
games, it was something very special. Then came the
war. Street sale of such food was not permitted because
of rationing and sanitation considerations. After the war,
the ban had to be continued. The Berliners were sad.

In 1946 a young popular German composer-vocalist
named “Bully” Buhlan created a sensation in Berlin with
his song entitled, “Wuerstchen mit Salat’ (Hot Dogs with
Salad). It was interesting to observe the dreamy-eyed
longings of German listeners as they heard Buhlan sing
the lyric lament of his song, which summed up what was
in their hearts. If only they could once again buy their
hot frankfurters on the streets in the evening as they had
in Berlin's happier days before the war.

Then it happened! Last autumn the Berlin City Magistrat
forwarded a proposed law to the Allied Kommandatura
that would again permit the sale of hot frankfurters for
immediate consumption on the streets and other public
places. The Legal and Civil Administration Committees
forwarded speedy recommendations for approval to the
commandants. The new law became effective Oct. 15.

Thus, in spite of the insurmountable obstacles resulting
from the Soviet-imposed blockade and notwithstanding
the many other difficulties in war-torn Berlin, here was
a symbol that the fight for return to better things was
being won. So, at the opera, at the theaters, on Kur-
fuerstendamm and on other famous streets of Berlin the
people were given this fresh proof that Berlin is returning
to normalcy.

As they gaily buy their hot frankfurters there will be
noted a new found hope and determination as the Ber-
liners loudly say, “Pass the mustard, bitteschoen!" — Con-
tributed by Arthur A. Birnkrant, Legal Affairs Division,
Berlin Element, HICOG.

Story Behind the Story

NEWS ITEM, captioned “City Council Promotes Free-
dom of Press," was printed recently in the Stuttgarter
Zeitung, reading as follows:
“In implementation of Article 4 of the Wuerttemberg-
Baden press law, ‘the administrative department of the

FEBRUARY 1950

31

Stuttgart City Council resolved unanimously to amend
the bylaws of the city in order to facilitate better in-
formation for the press and radio.”

As most readers of newspapers and magazines know,
there is usually “a story behind the story," and following
that pattern there is, behind the Stuttgarter Zeitung item,
a story illustrating the effective work of a local US Res-
ident Officer in assisting his community in obtaining
better relations among the people through democratic
methods. This is the story:

Several weeks earlier, Joel B. White, then deputy
Military Government officer in Stuttgart, conducted a co-
ordinating seminar on “Police Operations in Public Safety
and Traffic Engineering.” This conference was attended
a story illustrating the effective work of a local US Res-
ident Officer in assisting his community in obtaining
atives of Stuttgart Military Post and US Constabulary
Headquarters.

MERGING FROM the conference room, Mr. White was

approached by several German newspapermen who
told him that it was difficult for them to obtain news from
the German Police Department, and could he do something
about it. It had been practically impossible for the news-
men, and consequently the taxpaying public, to learn or
know anything about “in-conference’” and “behind the
scenes” activities.

Mr. White thought he could, so arranged another con-
ference to which he invited many of Stuttgart’s officials,
including governmental, police and public safety. He also
invited members of radio and press. Mr. White sat in the
background while the officials and the members of press
and radio held an “open debate” with the following result:

(1) That a police reporters’ room and facilities would
be established, that the newspapers and the radio could
secure information, and that the police would cooperate
with the news media.

(2) That the City of Stuttgart be requested to amend
its bylaws, which forbid city employees releasing in-
formation to the news media.

The above clearly illustrates the part that US Resident
Officers, who do not give orders or express opinions on
German problems, may play in assisting the German
people to get together on matters for their mutual benefit.

Mr. White had issued no orders, expressed no opinion
and applied no pressure—yet he was able to éstablish a
course which the governmental officials and the press and
radio followed and, as a result, came up with a satis-
factory solution. — Contributed by Marcus L. Hoover,
US Resident Officer, Stuttgart.

Nice Not to Be Forgotten

HE AGED AND INFIRM were not neglected during
the Christmas festivities, as attested by a letter
written by an elderly woman to her cousin about the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
celebration in an old-age home in Berlin. A translation
of the letter was forwarded to the HICOG headquarters
in Berlin by the German Welfare Office in Zehlendorf
borough.

“Today I must tell you something special about our
Christmas on which we all thought of our beloved ones
away from us:

“Shortly before Xmas I received a little note from our
social office, inviting me to a Xmas tea party.

“You know how lonely I have been, living here with
strangers since my son was killed and I lost my gpart-
ment through bombs. Hence, I was anxiously looking for-
ward to meeting people again and left the house well
in time.

“The party took place in a large festival hall of the
Evangelische Gemeindehaus (Evangelical Community
House); three long tables were laid and lighted with
candles. A high Xmas tree was standing in one corner
and about 100 old and lonely people like me enjoyed the
candles’ brightness, Children came in with little lanterns,
posted between us, in turns recited the Xmas story and
sang the old Xmas songs.

“Then we learned through a little speech that the
wonderful coffee served was a donation from America,
which an American colonel here in Berlin had given to
the aged. The smell of the coffee immediately stimulated
our spirits, and in addition some wonderful cake was
served—prepared just as in former times.

EXT TO ME SAT an old and feeble woman who had

just arrived in Berlin from the Soviet Zone. She had
not had any real coffee for nine years and she was so
happy when the cups were refilled.

“A little later there came an old couple, the man almost
blind. People quickly made room so that the two could
sit together because they would celebrate their Golden
Wedding at Xmas. As they live very poorly at home they
celebrated this anniversary with us. They also joined the
singing when we all sang Xmas songs.

Pic. Edward C. Riccio of the Giessen QM Depot helps
St. Nick as he gives a Christmas package to a little Ger-
man girl at the depot's party for German employees’

children Dec. 18. Six hundred attended. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Thus we old and single people, having lost so much
and having dreamed of a somewhat ‘different eventide—as
the Bezirksrat (borough official) mentioned—spent a nice
Christmas hour.

“Thank you for all your help; it is so nice to know that
you do not forget us Berliners.’"—Contributed by Wilmer
Froistad, Chief, Public Health and Welfare Branch, Berlin
Element, HICOG.

The Mayer Backed Down

HE FARMERS and trade union officials of a small

Bavarian town met recently to try to work out an
agreement for a fair price for potatoes. The arguments
became caustic and heated. Suddenly the town’s mayor
launched toward a labor union official who was speak-
ing and struck him in the face.

The incident aroused the anger of the townspeople
and 250 of them assembled in a town meeting. A resolu-
tion was drafted demanding the mayor's removal from
office. If this demand was not met, the indignant local
residents threatened to call a county-wide strike.

The following day the mayor was asked to appear at
a town meeting to state his defense to his constituents.

More than 300 persons, including representatives of
the local trade union, heard the mayor offer to apologize
publicly to the victim of his attack and to make a
generous contribution to the local Red Cross.

The offer was rejected by the trade union officials,
who made the following counter proposal: The mayor
would pay damages to the victim of his attack, he would
donate DM 100 to the local welfare workers’ fund, he
would pay-all transportation expenses incurred by the
officials attending the meeting, and he would make a
written apology for publication in the local newspapers.

The mayor, having agreed to these terms and chaken
hands with the victim of his attack, was reinstated in
the good graces of his constituents who departed con-
gratulating themselves on the results that can be
accomplished at a town meeting. — Contributed by Public
Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria.

Ex-GI Pays Old Bill

UDDEN REDEPLOYMENT did not stop a former US

soldier, who had been stationed in the US Zone of
Germany, from remembering and paying his debt to a
German garageman in the Hessian town of Hanau.

The former soldier, who now lives in North Carolina,
wrote the economic affairs officials of OLC Hesse that
he owed a bill of DM 350 to the Hanau garageman for
repairs made to his jeep while stationed in that town.

Because his redeployment date came sooner than he
had expected, the writer explained, he had had to leave
without paying the debt. He requested help in getting
his US dollars legally changed into Deutsche marks.

The economic affairs officials forwarded the request
to the Bank Deutscher Laender to arrange the legal
transfer of funds to pay the debt. — Contributed by Public
Relations Branch, OLC Hesse. + END

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 36 ---
Minor Political Parties

Center Party

HE CENTER PARTY today carries on in postwar
Germany the name of the famous Catholic Center
Party that played such a prominent part in the history
of the Bismarckian Reich and the Weimar Republic. But
it differs widely from its. predecessor, since it in-
corporates only those left-wing elements of the pre-1933
organization that were represented by such men as ex-
Chancellor Dr, Josef Wirth.

The present Center Party was founded in Lippstadt in
Westphalia on July 15, 1945. It was started by aging,
conservative Dr. Wilhelm Hamacher, but its creation
was largely the work of Dr. Karl Spiecker, who was a
member of the Executive Committee of the Center Party
in the Weimar Republic and of the famous republican
organization, Reichsbanner Black-Red-Gold.

In contradistinction to the middle-of-the-road CDU, the
Center Party is a distinctly leftist organization. This may
partly be explained by the fact that the Center Party's
stronghold is the Ruhr, where the old Christian (Catho-
lic) trade unions are still so strong. There it offered strong
competition to the CDU. ,

It was perhaps for this reason that, in the summer of
1948, Dr. Karl Arnold, Minister President of North Rhine-
Westphalia, and himself a member of the leftist wing of
the CDU, opened negotiations for the merger of the two
parties, These talks were carried on with the knowledge,
if not the enthusiastic endorsement, of Dr. Konrad Aden-
auer. The negotiations collapsed after the vote on the
bill to socialize the coal mines of the Ruhr in the North
Rhine-Westphalian Legislature, a measure which the
Center Party deputies supported while the delegates of
the CDU stood coldly aloof. The Center Party regarded
this as a breach of a promise made by Arnold in his
programmatic speech to the Legislature upon assuming
office as minister president in 1947, when he said that
he would make the coal mines in the state the property
of the community.

The negotiations were resumed early in January 1949
when both Dr. Adenauer and Dr. Spiecker proposed to
amalgamate the two parties. The offer was submitted to
a delegates’ conference of the Center Party, but was
rejected by the overwhelming vote of 239 votes to 26
with two abstentions. It is reported that the rank and
file of the Center Party regarded the CDU as too reac-
tionary. Dr. Karl Spiecker, who had

The Center Party is today largely a British-Zone organi-
zation. Elsewhere, it exists only in Hesse where it is
licensed in nine of that state's 47 counties. In the British
Zone, it is moreover a serious political factor only in
North Rhine-Westphalia. In the Legislature elections
held on April 20, 1947, it polled 9.77 percent of the votes
in that state, compared with 4.12 percent in Lower
Saxony and a bare 0.10 percent in Schleswig-Holstein.

LTHOUGH THE Center Party, like the CDU, was

founded by men and women belonging to the old
Catholic Center Party, there exist many wide diver-
gencies between the two parties. The Center Party is a
decidedly leftist party, standing somewhere between the
SPD and the CDU. The Center, as a rule, sides with the
SPD on questions of economic or social policy and of
governmental structure, and votes with the CDU on
matters of religion, education and culture,

The Center Party totally rejects the fundamental thesis
of the CDU that modern political and economic problems
can be solved by applying the principles and teachings
of the Christian religion.

Bavaria Party

HE BAVARIA PARTY originally existed as the
Bavarian Democratic Union, founded at Augsburg in
March 1946 by Baron von Seidlitz.

The young party obtained support when Dr. Wilhelm
Hoegner, the Bavarian minister president, sent Ludwig
Lallinger, his aide, to confer with Baron von Seidlitz
on extending its organization. Lallinger became the
virtual leader of the party in its formative states and
founded other groups, under the name of Bavarian De-
mocratic Union, in Munich and Simbach.

In August 1946, this group applied for a state license
under the terms of which the party would change its
name to Bavarian State Party upon authorization at state
level. Since the party demanded Bavarian autonomy, the
application was rejected.

Lallinger changed the name of the party to Bavaria
Party (Bayern Partei) and set about building up the party
so that it could qualify to apply again for a state
license. This work required the participation of new
elements which were opposed to Lallinger, including
Baron von Aretin, Jr. and Anton Donhauser, who are

monarchists. By the time the appli-

been elected as leader of the Center
Party in succession to Dr. Johannes
Brockmann at the party's annual con-
vention in December 1948 and who
had warmly supported the merger offer,
immediately resigned. Dr. Spiecker
himself suffered the humiliation of be-
ing expelled from the party which he
had done so much to call into being.

The salient facts regarding the his-
tory, background, aims, organization,
leadership and membership of the Ger-
man political parties of today, have
been drawn from a volume on the
“Political Parties in Western Germany”
issued by the Civil Affairs Division,
OMGUS. This month's article dealing
with postwar Germany's lesser political
groups is the last of the series.

cation for a license was again handed
in, these new elements had gained
control of the party and transferred
the leadership to Dr. Josef Baumgart-
ner, formerly minister of agriculture
in Bavaria and a member of the
Christian Social Union. The Bavaria
Party was granted its licensed on
March 29, 1948.

FEBRUARY 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
AVARIA FOR THE BAVARIANS is the keynote of

the Bavaria Party. The party considers Bavaria an
independent state connected by ties of external associa-
tion with the commonwealth of German states.

For this reason, the party platform calls for “an inde-
pendent, viable Bavarian state within the framework of
a German national community.” It would in effect restore
the old Germanic Confederation that existed before 1848,
which loosely tied the German states and principalities.
Viewing Bavaria as a sovereign state, the Bavaria party
naturally demands the creation of the office of a state
president — a proposal that was rejected by only one
vote in the Bavarian Constitutional Assembly of 1946.

The Bavaria Party advocates Bavaria entering a
“United States of Europe” as a state on equal terms with
other member states.

The Bavaria Party opposed the drafting of the Basic
Law at Bonn because it saw in its work a repetition of
the “mistake that was made in 1871 when Bavaria
consented to enter Bismarck's Reich and, thereby,
“surrendered her independence.” According to the party
leaders, this led inevitably to the domination of Prus-
sian militarism and to World War I. This “mistake was
repeated in the Weimar Republic which led just as irre-
vocably to Hitler and World War II. It held that the
adoption of any basic law would result in a third
world war.

The Bavaria Party is at present the nearest approach
to a monarchist party in Germany. While he has not
actually come out in favor of the return of the
monarchy, Dr. Baumgartner has public demanded a
plebiscite on the return of the Wittelsbach family to the
throne of Bavaria.

At a meeting of the party at Passau on June 18-19,
1949, Dr. Baumgartner said that there were both mon-
archists and republicans in his organization and he pro-
posed that eventually a referendum should be held to
determine the form of state.

In line with its cry of “Bavaria for the Bavarians,”
the party demands that all the leading positions of the

Dr. Herbert Lewin (left), elected chief physician of the
Offenbach Gynecological Hospital, was originally re-
jected by the city council because of his Jewish faith. In
the storm of public indignation that followed, the mayor
was dismissed and Lewin reinstated in a new election. Here
he discusses the job with US Resident Officer William Rule
of Offenbach. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

Bavarian state and public administration be held by
Bavarians. The party has made much of what it calls
“the Prussian Question. By this it means that too many
North Germans had emigrated to Bavaria during the
war and are now occupying top governmental posts in
the state. It, therefore, demands the return to the other
areas of Germany of all evacuees and refugees.

In economic matters, the Bavaria Party calls for the
creation of an ‘Economic Chamber’ to represent all
professions and trades with a status equal to that of the
Legislature. The Economic Chamber would be responsible
for economic security.

The party dedicates itself to the protection of private
enterprise and the “fostering of genuine Bavarian national
customs.”

The Bavaria Party stands for “Christian ideology as
the basis of government in Bavaria” and declares that
the religious education of the youth is to be determined
by their parents. All essential problems between church
and state are to be settled by treaty.

Economic Reconstruction Party

HE ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION PARTY (Wirt-

schaftliche Aufbau Vereinigung) generally referred
to from its initials as the "WAV," is a one-man party,
founded by its present leader, Alfred Loritz, one of the
most colorful figures in German politics today.

In the Weimar Republic, Loritz, a lawyer by profession,
was a member of the Economic Party, It was perhaps
natural then that, after the collapse of Nazism, he should
set about organizing another middle-class party, He foun-
ded the organization which he called the Economic Recon-
struction Party in December 1945 and, in March 1946, it
was provisionally authorized by Military Government.

Loritz began to lash out at all other political groups,
gathering around him a variety of disgruntled elements.
Newspapers and satirical magazines lampooned Loritz as
the “coming fuehrer’ and mocked his methods, yet slowly
and steadily the party grew until, in the December 1946
elections, it suddenly found itself, with 7.4 percent of the
votes, in third position in Bavaria, trailing only the CSU
and the SPD. Thirteen WAV delegates were elected to
the Legislature.

At that time, both the major parties strove for a co-
alition with the WAV in order to get this party under
control, and Loritz was offered the post of denazification
minister, Loritz accepted the post only to be removed
from office on June 24, 1947, for purportedly establishing
something like a secret police force within his ministry.
A month later, on July 19, he was arrested on black
market charges and sent to a Munich prison. He imme-
diately fell ill, and was allowed the liberty of treatment
in a sanatorium from which he escaped. It took the
police one year to catch him.

Loritz also faced trouble within his party, which was
torn by internal quarrels. This party strife culminated in
a fight between Loritz and WAV Legislative Deputy Karl
Meissner who led the opposition. In June 1947, Meissner
both toured Bavaria extolling the achievements of the

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 38 ---
“Master” during his ministry and at the same time called
a meeting to oust the chief. Meissner summoned the local
party leaders to a state convention in Munich for
June 20, Loritz wired the leaders to stay away, but
Meissner wired them to come anyhow. On June 19, Meiss-
ner was voted out of the WAV parliamentary group by
his fellow delegates; he had hig revenge on the next day,
at the state convention, when Loritz was voted out as
party leader and replaced by a five-man commission con-
sisting of Karl Meissner himself and four others. Loritz
left the meeting protesting loudly of illegality and
threatened reprisals.

However, this did not end the party's difficulties. In
November 1947, Meissner and four of the 13 delegates to
the Legislature bolted the WAV to form the “Deutsche
Block." Subsequently, in August 1948, Julius Hoellerer,
who had been elected to the chairmanship after Loritz's
dismissal, broke with the WAV amid charges and
counter-charges of dictatorship and dishonest guidance.
Since then the WAV bloc in the Bavarian Legislature
has been so weakened by desertions that now only three
of the original 13 deputies remain in it.

While in hiding from the police, Loritz still kept in
touch with his followers. He even suddenly appeared at
the party's state meeting in Munich, on Oct 23, 1948, was
once more elected chairman and then vanished again.

On the night of Nov. 11, 1948, when most Germans
were preparing for the work stoppage protest scheduled
for the next day, Loritz was caught—or allowed himself
to be caught—by the Munich police. A month later, his
trial was over, Loritz was free again and immediately
started to draw new crowds.

The two cardinal principles of the Economic Recon-
struction Party that distinguish it from other parties are
its demands for (a) plebiscitary democracy, and (b) gov-
ernment by experts. By plebiscitary democracy the WAV
means that all important issues, instead of being passed
upon by the parliaments and legislatures, shall be refer-
ted directly to the people at a referendum. The WAV is
opposed to the socialization of industry, the right of co-
determination of work councils in the management of
industry and Bavarian separatism.

The German Party

HE GERMAN PARTY (Deutsche Partei or DP) dates

back to the 60's of the last century when the old king-
dom of Hanover lost its independence and became a
Prussian province. There were then many persons in that
new Prussian province who wanted Hanover to remain
independent, especially the conservative farmers. These
Hanoverian conservatives founded the German Party in
1865 to defend the old German Confederation and to
fight Prussian hegemony, protested against the exclusion
of Austria from the German Bund that Bismarck had
established.

The “Iron Chancellor" would not allow the new politi-
cal organization to call itself the “German Party” and
the name was therefore changed to German-Hanoverian
Party." One of the founders of the party was Bismarck’s
arch-foe, Ludwig Windthorst, who later was destined to

FEBRUARY 1950

35

lead the Catholic Center Party into battle against the
founder of the German Reich in the celebrated ‘‘Kultur-
kampt."

Known as the ‘Hanoverian Party” in the days of the
Weimar Republic, it was represented in the Reichstag,
having at one time as many as 11 deputies. Although a
right wing party, it was never as extremely reactionary
as the Nationalists, and had no connection with the
Nazis. In 1924 the party came closest to achieving its
goal, when it actually did succeed in getting a plebiscite
held on the subject of restoring the independence of
Hanover. The failure of the plebiscite is attributed by
the party leaders to the “undemocratic influencing of the
election by Prussian officials.”

In 1933 the party suffered the same fate as the other
German parties and was dissolved. Some of its members
joined the Nazi movement, but quite a number of its
leading personalities remained outside the Hitler or-
ganization and some even joined resistance groups.

After the collapse of the Third Reich, the party was
quickly revived in 1945 under the name of Lower Saxon
State Party (Niedersaechsische Landespartei or NLP). Its
immediate aim, the creation of an independent State of
Lower Saxony (Hanover) and complete separation from
Prussia, was achieved by the end of 1946.

In the course of 1947 a new element of nationalism
was introduced into the party through the influx of a
conservative group of persons who, in the absence of a
right wing movement, chose the NLP as their instrument.
The party, in the meantime, had spread beyond its
homeland, Hanover, to Bremen, Hamburg and Schleswig-
Holstein. Consequently, at a meeting held in Celle in
1947, it assumed its original name of “German Party.”

Nevertheless, the German Party is still strongest in
Lower Saxony. In the Legislature elections held there in
the spring of 1947, it emerged as the thind largest party,
polling 440,367 votes, representing 18.8 percent of the
total. It has 28 members out of 149 in the Legislature
of Lower Saxony. Deputies of the party sit in the popular
assemblies of Bremen and Hamburg.

The German Party stands for the decentralization of
Germany and the setting up of a “Federation of German
States" in preference to a German Reich. This federalist
Germany is to be a part of a federalist Europe. Indeed,
the German Party would like to give the West German
State the name of “Revival of the German Reich" ("Er-
neuerung des Deutschen Reiches"). This title would in-
dicate that it was not Bismarck’s Reich that was being
restored, but the “Holy Roman Empire of German Nations”
that Napoleon destroyed in 1806.

The party has in fact very close affinity with the
Christian Social Union in Bavaria. Indeed, it may be
considered a Protestant North-German counterpart to
that predominantly Catholic party in South Germany.

The German Party is distinctly a rightist party, in fact
perhaps the most conservative political organization in
Germany today. It favors free enterprise, fiercely opposes
all forms of socialization and controlled economy, is
against land reform, and supports generally a policy
favoring the farmers. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Personnel Notes

JEIA Chief Retires

William John Logan resigned as director general of
the Joint Export-Import Agency after two-year service.
To fill the vacancy in JEIA which is now in liquidation
was named Morris S. Verner, Jr., who had been deputy
for operations since November 1948.

In accepting the resignation on Jan. 5, US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy said:

“As the famous JEIA goes into liquidation you can
well consider your labors with this organization as hav-
ing been completed. The variety and quantity of German
trade which was regulated through this agency is not
appreciated by many, nor are the complex problems
which the establishment and maintenance of the agency
presented. Due to your expert experience and good
judgment you were able to maintain a steady improve-
ment in the German trade position. Even though many
people are not aware of and will never be aware of all
the work that was done, you can take great personal
satisfaction in your administration of this very difficult
task.”

(Mr. Logan stated that he plans to return with Mrs.
Logan to Washington, D.C., to retire from both govern-
ment service and private business. In Germany since
December 1947, he was called to Japan last fall to ad-
vise General MacArthur's staff on methods of transfering
responsibility in the foreign trade field to Japanese
individuals and private enterprise.

JEIA, which has transfered the main body of its for-
eign trade responsibilities to the German federal govern-
ment, is in the process of liquidation. The record of its
accomplishments can be summed up by citing the 500
percent increase in western Germany's exports over the
past two years, In 1947, the country’s exports totaled
only $200,000,000, of which 70 percent was coal. In 1949,
the export total had climbed to more than $1,200 000 000,

Norma Jane Johnson, soprano soloist, and Peter Harrower,
baritone, sing a duet with the Georgia Tech Glee Club,
in Rhine/Main Air Base’s Gateway Theater, to open a
three-week series of concerts in Germany, Austria and
Tripoli sponsored by Eucom Special Services, (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of which less than 30 percent was coal and in spite of the
mark devaluation and its attendant effect upon exports.

2 Associate Justices Named

Two new associate justices were appointed to the
Court of Appeals and one judge to the newly-created
Court of Restitutions Appeals in the US court system in
Germany, effective Jan. 1.

Judge H. Lloyd Ericsson and Judge Fred J. Cohn were
named associate justices of the Court of Appeals, and
Judge Peter J. Flanagan was appointed to the Court of
Restitution Appeals. At present, Judge Ericsson is tem-
porary special assistant to the General Counsel, HICOG;
Judge Cohn is the chief presiding judge for Hesse in the
US court system and Judge Flanagan is a member of the
Board of Review.

In addition to serving as a member of the Court of
Appeals, Judge Cohn has been designated president of
the Court of Restitutions Appeals.

The court system, formerly known as the Military
Government Courts for Germany, was redesignated as
“United States Courts of the Allied High Commission
for Germany” in a law signed by the US High Com-
missioner Dec. 28.

The present members of the Court of Appeals are
Chief Justice William Clark, and Associate Justices Juan
S. Sedillo, Carl W. Fulghum, Marc J. Robinson, Thomas
H. Goodman and Justin W. Harding. A ninth associate
justice is to be appointed.

Airlift Official Commended

William A. Fagan, chief of the Transportation Branch,
HICOG, was awarded an official commendation certificate
and medal Dec. 20 for exceptional performance of duty
in connection with his work in the Berlin Air Lift. The
presentation was made by Maj. Gen. George P. Hays,
deputy US high commissioner for Germany.

According to the official citation, signed by Gordon
Gray, Secretary of the Army, Mr. Fagan was commended
for exceptional performance of duty as US chairman of
the Berlin Airlift Coordinating Committee, Oct. 1948
to July 25, 1949. In this capacity he demonstrated ex-
ceptional ability in the performance of unusual and dif-
ficult tasks in organizing, coordinating and controlling
the balanced flow of supplies by rail and road to the
eight airfields serving Berlin, the citation read.

US Tenor Gives Recitals

Frederic Morton, an American tenor who gave his
first European concert in Salzburg last year, is giving
a series of recitals in the US Zone under the sponsor-
ship of the Information Centers Branch of HICOG. Exact
dates and locations of each of his concerts will be an-
nounced locally. The tentative schedule includes Jan. 30
to Feb. 17 in Bavaria; Feb. 20 to March 2 in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, and March 3 to 19 in Berlin and Bremen.
Mr. Morton's program includes songs by Haendel, Mo-
zart, Schubert, Brahms, Debussy and Richard Strauss.
He will also sing selections from Puccini, and will include
songs by Samuel Barber and other Americans.

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 40 ---
Bishop John Cody, Catholic religious leader of St. Louis,
Mo., recently arrived in Hesse to make a study of reli-
gious and social resurgence in postwar Germany. Shown
welcoming him are (left) Dr. James R. Newman, Land
Commissioner, Hesse, and (right) Dr. George F, Donovan,
religious affairs chief, OLC Hesse. (PRB OLCH photo)

Bishop Cody Tours Zone

Bishop John P. Cody of St. Louis, Mo., visited the US
Zone to survey occupation activities in the fields of
adult education, youth activities, religious seminaries
and theology faculties. Bishop Cody visited more than
10 German cities and conferred with a number of HICOG
religious officials and with Catholic cardinals and
bishops. He was appointed to make the survey by the
Catholic Bishops' Conference which met in Washington,
D. C., last November,

ECA Mission Official Promoted

Martin M. Tank, deputy chief of the Program Division
of the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany, became
chief of the Northern Countries Section, Program Divi-
sion, Office of Special Representative, ECA, Paris. In
Germany since October 1947, he had served with the
Economics Division, OMGUS, in Berlin, as economist
and later chief of the Bizonal Delegation to the OEEC
in Paris.

Autobahn Mishap Fatal

Virgil Larson of the staff of the Combined Travel
Board in Stuttgart, was killed when the automobile in
which he was riding crashed Dec. 14 into an unlighted
German trailer parked on the highway near Herford.

Fifteen American newspaper editors who made a four-
day tour of Germany are shown on their arrival at
Rhine/Main Air Base Jan. 14, L-r, front tow, they are
Forrest W. Seymour, editorial writer, Des Moines Register
and Tribune; John W. Love, associate editor, Cleveland
Press; Wallis K. McArdle, associate editor, San Francisco
Chronicle; Sevelon Brown III, associate editor, Provi-
dence Journal and Bulletin; Carroll Binder, editorial
writer, Minneapolis Tribune; Michael Bradshaw, associate
editor, Toledo Blade; M. H. William, executive editor,
Worcester Telegram and Gazette; Edward H. Lindsay,
editor, Decatur Herald; back row, John P. Harris, editor,
Hutchinson News-Herald; Robert S. Bates, editor and
publisher, “Meadville Tribune-Republican; Alvand_ S.
Dunkleberger, editor, Nashville Banner; G. Prescott Low,
editor and publisher, Quincy Patriot-Ledger; C. B. Lartz,
bublisher, Sharon Herald; William P. McDowell, associate
editor, Sharon Herald; and Samuel W. Miller, editor,
Allentown Call and Chronicle. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Two British occupation personnel, also riding in the
same car, died later of injuries.

Mr. Larson had been with Military Government in
Stuttgart since 1945 when, as a warrant officer, he serv-
ed in the Officers’ Personnel Section of OMG Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. Later he worked for the OMGWB Reports
and Statistical Division. At the time of the accident, he
was on temporary duty with the CTB in Herford,
British Zone.

Memorial services were held Dec. 28 in the Cross-
roads Service Club Chapel in Stuttgart with Chaplain
W. H. Bergherm officiating. Assisting was the Rev.
Dwight B. Horner, chief of the US Information Centers
Section, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden.

First WAVE in EUCOM
EUCOM Headquarters in Hei-
delberg now has on its staff the
first WAVE officer to be perma-
nently assigned to the European
Command. She is Lt, Renee Bach-
huber of St. Louis, M., who has
become administrative assistant
to Capt. Harold N, Duryea, US
Naval liaison officer, Her assign-
ment to Germany follows seven
years’ service in Washington D.C.

Educator Returning to Wayne U.

Dr. Marion Edman has left Munich for the United
States after serving three and a half years in Bavaria
on the public education staff of the Office of Military
Government and later the Office of State Commissioner.
She will rejoin the faculty of Wayne University in
Detroit, Mich., from which she has been on leave. of
absence.

The educator devoted much of her time in the develop-
ment of young teachers’ organizations and on-the-job
training for educators. She also was credited with hav-
ing laid the ground work for child psychology centers in
Bavaria, and a new organization of elementary teacher
education.

Ruth Felfe Going to Washington

A German OLC Hesse secretary left for the United
States Jan. 4 to accept a job as secretary to the Ger-
man ERP delegation in Washington, D, C. when Ruth
Felfe, 37-year-old former secretary to the chief of the
OLC Public Health and Public Welfare Branch, was
selected for the position from among many applicants.

--- Page 41 ---
Industrial Expansion Aided

ORE THAN 725 western German industrial firms in

23 broad categories of industry are receiving direct
benefits from the release of DM 312,000,000 ($74,256,000)
from ECA counterpart funds. Another DM 220,000,000
($52,360,000) is being released for power projects and
DM 150,000,000 ($35,700,000) for the coal mining industry.
The electric power shortage has been a serious bottleneck
to industrial expansion.

In approving the release of funds to industry, ECA
industry officials gave first priority to those sectors of
industry which are expected to do the most to stimulate
western Germany recovery, expand its export potential
and reduce import requirements. Unemployment condi-
tions in depressed areas in western Germany were also
given consideration,

Harold A. Taylor, chief of the Industry Division, ECA
Special Mission to Germany, explained that the release
of the counterpart funds enables the industrial firms to
launch modernization and expansion programs through
the added utilization of their own capital, which will put
money into circulation in far greater amounts than the
counterpart funds released. The utilization of counterpart
funds is intended to augment capital rather than to
furnish the entire amount of capital needed for rehabilita-
tion, Thousands of orders should be placed as a result of
the release of these funds.

O THE 23 CATEGORIES of industry receiving counter-
part funds assistance, the electrical engineering in-
dustries are receiving the largest portion in DM 60,500,000.
These releases are closely related to the large reconstruc-
tion programs for electric power, mining and telecom-
munications, The funds will restore or provide produc-
tion facilities for large generating equipment, mining
machinery and similar electrical engineering products.

The next largest release of DM 46,400,000 into the
mechanical engineering industries again assists in pro-
viding productive capacity for machine tools, textile
machinery, agriculture tractors, mining and mining equip-
ment which in turn are essential to the other sectors of
industry.

The chemical industry was included to the amount of
DM 42,900,000 and these investments are largely directed
toward the restoration of capacity losses due to war
damages and deferred maintenance of essential branches
of basic chemicals. Investments in the fertilizer industry
will assist in fulfilling the western Germany demand and
permit greater export of potash. Consideration has also
been given to technical improvements necessary to
enable Germany to improve its position in foreign trade.

Allotments of DM 40,700,000 to the iron and steel
industry are aimed at cutting production costs by im-
proving the technical methods. The projects also include
improvements in the field of ore mining as well as the
production of castings and forgings.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

IHE OIL INDUSTRY allotment of DM 27,300,000 is

aimed at providing cracking and other specialized
equipments which will minimize imports of finished oil
products.

The allotment of DM 22,200,000 to the textile and
clothing industries contemplates modernization of spin-
ning facilities with some additional capacity for produc-
tion of worsted and woolen yarns as well as provision for
hosiery production, which is presently inadequate.

The non-ferrous metals industry projects contemplate
increasing the supply of lead and zinc ores in order to
enable western Germany to reach self-sufficiency in
those metals. Other projects involve correction of un-
economical production methods in the various non-fer-
rous metals fields.

The funds for building industry and woodworking
industries are intended to more effectively utilize wood
wastages and introduce new technical processes to pro-
vide products suitable for building construction and
reduce higher building costs.

Sixteen other categories of industries with their ECA
counterpart quotas are:

DM
Distributive trades .. 500,000
Fine mechanics and optics . 8,800,000
Gablonz (costume jewelry) . 500,000
Glass and ceramics 2,200,000
Leather, shoes and furs 3,300,000
Manufactured metal products .....-.. 4,450,000
Non-ferrous metals ................-++ 9,500,000
Paper and printing ..............:+.. 12,400,000
Rubber, .- « wcscerh « na sd Meveele > ores dks 2,400,000
Scientific research .........-....+-+: 50,000
SUL YVAEUBY. (em sre ker er at cea nie times 2,600,000
Steel construction .................. 2,200,000
Stones and earths .... 02 F.2. 0Aiee. 7,000,000
‘Toutist Thotele 200 ee ee 2,000,000
Vehicle industry .................055 2,600,000
Woodworking ............... cess eee 9,500,000
+ END

Occupation Lifts Airgun Ban

The manufacture, distribution and use of airguns will
no longer be restricted by occupation authorities in
Hesse. In a letter to the Hessian minister of economics,
the authority for licensing of the manufacture and dis-
tribution of airguns was turned over to the Hessian
Ministry of Economics.

The guns permitted under the new directive may not
be propelled by gunpowder or chemicals, may not have
a bore greater than 6 mm diameter, and must be
smooth bored.

To date, airguns had been authorized only for use at
fairs and carnivals, while from now on the only re-
striction in use will be imposed by the Hessian
authorities.

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 42 ---
Ruhr Power Reaches Bavaria

T THE SLEEPY little farm village of Ludersheim, a

few miles southwest of Nuremberg, a German
engineer recently threw the switch to start the flow of
electricity from generating plants in the Ruhr to power-
starved factories in Bavaria. Current up to 220,000 volts
is flowing over a 126-mile power line recently completed
with the help of DM 27,000,000 in GARIOA counterpart
funds.

GARIOA (Government and Relief in Occupied Areas)
counterpart funds are the Deutsche mark equivalents of
the dollar value of food and other supplies shipped into
Germany by the United States. The Deutsche marks are
accumulated as West German firms and individuals
purchase such goods.

There was little ceremony to commemorate the oc-
casion, but it was a memorable event nonetheless.
Stretching from Kelsterbach, near Frankfurt, to Luders-
heim, the new line links steam generating plants of the
Ruhr coal area with hydroelectric plants in southern
Bavaria. It is an important link in the German power
grid system essential to the recovery and expansion of
Germany's industry.

Eventually the line will become a vital link in an even
more important power grid system which will provide
several western European countries with an efficient and
dependable supply of electric power. The western
European power grid is a major protect under study by
the Office of European Economic Cooperation. The
Kelsterbach-Ludersheim line supplements an overloaded
110,000-volt circuit which is inadequate for industrial use.

The additional power assures steady jobs for more
than 50,000 workers in Bavarian factories and a higher
production of export goods such as ceramics, porcelain,
glassware, cameras, binoculars, toys, motorcycles and
light metals. The ceramics industry in Bavaria alone
employs more than 30,000 workers and the optical in-
dustry more than 12,000.

N SUMMER, when the melting snow in the Alps keeps

Bavarian hydroelectric power stations humming,
surplus electricity flowing northward will help keep the
coal mines and steel plants in the Ruhr operating at full
time. Power for industrial use has been periodically
rationed in both areas, a factor retarding industrial
production and creating seasonal unemployment.

Prior to the war, Bavaria normally imported power
from eastern Germany during the periods of drought and
in winter when the hydroelectric output was low. The
failure of the Russians to live up to power-import agree-
Ments in the postwar occupation period has frequently
forced shutdowns by industries in the US Zone. Produc-
tion losses were felt most keenly in light metals, ceramics,
fertilizers and the optical industries of southern Bavaria.

The contemplated extension of the Kelsterbach-Luders-
heim line from Aschaffenburg to Berken, near Hanover,

FEBRUARY 1950

39

in the British Zone, would connect the thermal power
plants of the central German brown coal fields with both
Ruhr and Bavarian power sources. This projected 80-mile
link, when completed, will be another step toward
providing the Federal Republic of Germany with an
electrical grid system adequate to the needs of its
industry, according to ECA power experts, -+ END

ECA Funds to Rehabilitate German
Railroads, Ports, Mines

Approximately DM 151,000,000 ($45,938,000) accumu-
lated in western Germany through the sale of Marshall
Plan goods, have been put to work to rehabilitate the
German Federal Railroads, construct port facilities,
modernize coal mines and generally promote recovery
projects.

A report on Local Currency Counterpart Funds for all
Marshall Plan countries prepared by the Economic Co-
operation Administration shows that the equivalent of
$3,090,000,000 of this Marshall Plan ‘stay home” pay has
been approved for withdrawal, and $2,796,500,000 already
has been put to use in these countries.

The counterpart funds which are held in the accounts
of participating countries are ECA's device to make
Marshall Plan dollar grants work twice for European
recovery — once by providing industry and agriculture
with needed goods and services purchases directly with
the dollars, and once again by promoting production
employment and monetary stability through use of
local currencies put up to match the dollar grants,

More than half of the counterpart funds are earmarked
for stimulating production — mainspring in the ERP
effort to achieve an independent European economy.

The first release of Marshall Plan counterpart funds for
Germany was made last September, For railroads,
public utilities and reconstruction projects in the port
of Ludwigshafen, DM 57,000,000 has been earmarked
from the counterpart funds of the French Zone. Of this
sum, DM 40,000,000 will go to the railroad system for
capital investment; DM 14,000,000 for electric power
projects; DM 1,000,000 for gas main improvements, and
DM 2,000,000 for the rebuilding of the port of Ludwigs-
hafen.

Additional releases covered some DM 50,000,000 for
the Ruhr coal mines, made available through the Recon-
struction Loan Corporation and DM 44,000,000 for the
Kraftwerk West, the BEWAG power plant in western
Berlin. The Berlin power plant, completely dismantled
by the Russians at the beginning of the occupation, was
reopened on Dec, 1. 4- END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torials is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

EAR END AND NEW YEAR comments in the Ger-

man press covered an unusually wide range of sub-
jects with the views expressed ranging from conser-
vative and constructive comment to diametrically op-
posite criticism that was both caustic and bitter.

The US-West German ECA pact was welcomed, its
favorable effect from an international legal aspect stres-
sed. However, there was no lack of voices to warn that
the best that should be hoped for is a modest living
standard such as corresponds with Germany's poverty
and the effects of a lost war.

The practically unanimous rejection by all parties in
the federal assembly of rearmament proposals was
roundly applauded as thoroughly representative of Ger-
man feeling on the subject. Germany's only chance, and
only present task, lies in plumping for peace, it was
maintained.

The press was frankly surprised over the unexpectedly
severe sentence in the Manstein case, the general
opinion being that such draconic judgment would have
seemed more justified in 1946. The accreditation of
12 foreign mission chiefs by the Allied High Commission
occasioned sober warnings on premature optimism as
this accreditation was held to show the Federal Republic
to be still far from sovereign.

Resignation of State Department's policy-planner
George Kennan was considered an event of prime im-
portance. The new High Commission law against mili-
tarism and nationalism received a very unfavorable press

as indicating the Occupation Powers thus have again
taken over full control of German internal political
developments. Mao Tse-tung’s Moscow visit was as-
signed great world political significance, Stalin's 70th
birthday was accorded widespread publicity and re-
strained comment, and there were uneasy fears voiced
regarding a new Berlin blockade.

The Cold War

Die Zeit (Hamburg, Dec. 29) writes pessimistically on
European disharmony and says that 1950 must bring a
drastic change if Europe is to be saved:

“...The struggle to establish European union makes
little progress. It suffocates in endless talk. Instead of
putting forth constructive suggestions the only agree-
ment seems to be on the rejection of American pro-
posals. Distrust and greed rule the day... It seems as
if only the churches have fully realized the deeper
significance of the present struggle. The Holy See's ex-
communication decree against the materialistic, anti-
Christian Communist doctrine has done more to bring
whatever success we have attained in the cold war than
any measure of the European governments...

“This state of affairs must be overcome if the Western
resistance is to lead to success and it must come this
year... If this means the United States must exert pres-
sure, then let us have it by all means. The cold war is
still undecided, but if the West brings to bear the re-
quisite patience, magnanimity and firmness, it may easily

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Badische Neueste Nachrichten, Karlsruhe, Dec. 20)

Stalin
“Seventy years old and I can't veto it.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Frankenpost, Hof, Dec. 22)

The Fortune-Teller: “You'll soon meet a nice dark
man with a big black mustache."

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 44 ---
(Fraenkischer Tag, Bamberg, Dec. 22)

Hier bin ich, Herr Nachbar . .
Here I am, neighbor!

come to pass that we can quote Stalin in reverse:
‘Attack the Soviet Union? Why? The Soviet Union will
destroy itself’.

Germany's World View

Echo der Woche (Munich, Dec. 30) says Germany is
prepared to sacrifice sovereignty to achieve a united
Europe and sees hope in American initiative in this
direction:

“... The German people suffered and lost more through
war and totalitarianism than any other people. For this
reason, it has, perhaps more than any other people,
overcome such tendencies. More so than many of those
who sit in smug judgment upon us...

“Germany is prepared to voluntarily and permanently
renounce a certain amount of sovereignty in the inter-
ests of peace, provided that brings equal rights in any
supra-national state that results... Curiously enough, it
is America which is the foremost proponent of such a
development, and in this laudable purpose it must
constantly contend with European inhibitions and petty
jealousies. At times it seems as if ERP Administrator
Hoffman is bent on going down in history as the ‘Father
of Europe’.”

New Year 1950

Die Zeit (Hamburg, Dec. 22) muses on developments in
1949 and finds that while Germany has gained materially
during the past year it has lost ground in the spiritual
sense:

“... There are any number of spiritual analyses which
show us how much we have gained... Of course, it is
a borrowed prosperity, not one that we have ourselves
worked out and earned... and it would be well if we
were somewhat less exuberant and self-satisfied about it
and a little more grateful instead.

“At any rate, we are not out of the woods yet. Further-
More let us remember that man does not live by bread
alone, Unfortunately there are no statistics to show us
how much better or worse we have become spiritually in
Tecent years... In the latter respect we were all better
humans at the time that we all were badly off. Now
that things have improved a large section of our pop-
ulation has forgotten those of us whose economic situa-
tion has improved little or not at all...

FEBRUARY 1950

“In the callous pursuit of our own security — which,
by the way, the modern world can no longer offer — we
forget that a reconstruction of our hearts is just as
necessary as that of our cities... We are climbing
materially and sinking spiritually. That is our Christmas
balance sheet.”

The Marshall Plan

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, Dec. 19) stresses
the political importance of the US-German ERP pact:

“Thus the American government, for the first time,
makes a direct contract with the German Federal Re-
public... Thus a precedent is created... which may be
construed as de facto recognition of German sover-
eignty... We may regard it as a significant step on the
road to a formal ending of the state of war... Chancel-
lor Adenauer is to be congratulated...

“Some countries receive Marshall Plan help as an
outright gift... We are not as yet in that category...
It would not be practicable because, as we are told, the
American taxpayer would object for ‘political reasons.’
Under the circumstances this need not particularly
worry us."

PWs and Pastor Niemoller

The Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt, Dec. 28), in
an editorial by Walter Dircks, describes the Western
Powers, to whom Dr. Adenauer addressed his appeal in
favor of prisoners of war still detained in Russia, as
“well-meaning but powerless due to the difficult situa-
tion which has prevailed between the Allies since the
Yalta and Potsdam agreements.

“Most Germans," said Dircks, “are apt to forget that
this terrible embarrassment is the work of Hitler and his
mad invasion of Russia in 1940. Stalin detains our PW's,
Truman cannot deliver them, Hitler sent them there —
that is about the gist of the matter.

“To the group of people afflicted with loss of memory
belongs Pastor Martin Niemoller, the gallant and like-

(Schwaebische Landzeitung, Augsburg, Dec. 14)

Michel: ,,... Rasieren, bitte!’*
Karikatur: Helmut Beyer

Five years and still no peace:
German Michel: “I'd like a shave, please!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, Dec. 14)

DEUTSCHE GLEICHBERECHTIGUNG
,,Gefaellt's Dir etwa immer noch nicht an unserem Verhandlungstisch?’

German Equality.
“What's the matter? Still not satisfied with
our round table conference?"

able fighter with the gift of saying things which some-
times are right and sometimes are wrong at the wrong
time and in the wrong place."

Sending Niemoller about his business regarding the
question of German unity (Niemoller had declared that
Germany preferred to be united, even under Russian
rule, than to remain divided), Dircks condemns Nie-
moller’s statement that “the Federal Republic was con-
ceived in Rome and born in Washington" adding “it
may be that the Americans are supporting Adenauer's
government in Bonn a shade more warmly than they
might have supported a Schumacher government in
Frankfurt, not because the latter would have been less
‘Catholic,’ but because it would have been more alien to
their economic and social ideas basically.

“Nevertheless, the Americans would have furthered
any government provided that it was formed on a demo-
cratic basis because... they have realized that only a
sphere of European prosperity can put a stop to the
avalanche from the East and that Germany is an essential
part of that sphere...

“We may criticize, but with sobriety and loyalty and
not in misinterpretation of realities so fateful in our
German politics.” On the other hand, says Dircks, Nie-

{(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover. Br. Zone)

Adenauer Bonn-apart.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

moller's aggressive bon mot reflects German public
opinion inasmuch as the federal government's policy is
centered too much on North Rhine/Westphalia and the
Ruhr, and advises the men in Bonn not to neglect the
refugee and housing problems.

Rearmament

Die Gegenwart (Freiburg, Baden, Dec. 15) declares
that Germany needs civil qualities, rather than military
ones:

“Recently the London Times described the German
masses as politically inexperienced, emotionally un-
stable, traditionally nationalistic and ignorant of demo-
cracy... France, for example, agrees with the Times
and therefore does not want Germany rearmed: we
disagree with the Times but reach the same conclusion
as the French. We too oppose a rearmed Germany.

“The issues pending between the Soviet Union and
the United States cannot be decided by a German civil
war... The Soviets will be disappointed if they think
that such a civil war — ‘European contingent’ against
the so-called ‘People’s Police’ (Volkspolizei) — would
turn out to their advantage. The West Powers will be
equally disappointed if they believe they can ‘send the
Germans to the front.’

“The powers that be in this country have in the past
done little to instill civil qualities in our population...
It's about time that we have a change... Our contribu-
tion towards combatting Soviet ideology had better con-
sist in the creation of a new state, with clear principles
of justice, help for the economically weak and respect
for the freedom of the individual. That should be the
German policy; it could contribute much to the promotion
of peace. And what we least need for such a purpose
are soldiers.”

“Dismantling the Rhine”

Der Spiegel (Hanover, Dec. 22) takes violent exception
to the proposed construction by France of the Grand
Canal d'Alsace:

“.,.It will be a subsidiary canal beginning a few miles
north of Basel and will reach to Strasbourg. It is in-
tended to use the water of our Rhine to activate eight

(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, Dec. 16)

The Rabbit to the Boar:
“Remilitarization, hooey — the game warden
hasn't even got a gun.”

FEBRUARY 1959

--- Page 46 ---
(Abendpost, Frankfurt, Jan. 9)

Rot-China wird anerkannt
Britain recognizes Red China.

large power plants with a yearly capacity of 800,000,000
kilowatt hours each, thus making the Compagnie Elec-
tricite de France the most powerful in Europe...

“It will reduce the water level of the Upper Rhine to
such an extent that navigation is impossible and will
destroy the fertility of our fields... In other words, the
Upper Rhine will no longer be Germany's border but
France's river!"

Amnesty

Echo der Woche (Munich, Dec. 18) says a political
amnesty is necessary to establish the Occupation Powers
as a protective rather than a controlling force in the
eyes of the German people:

“..,It has been officially estimated that approximately
80,000 persons (in Germany today) live under false
names for political reasons... This means, in effect, that
the state necessarily creates an underground and re-
sistance movement against itself... Most of the people
concerned are not criminal by nature and could be won
through an amnesty for useful and constructive work...

“Such a gesture of forgiveness and reconciliation
would serve to confirm the idea that the Occupation is
a wise and intelligent form of protection against totali-
tarianism in all its forms.”

No More Hate

Europa Kurier (Aachen, NR/W., Dec. 16) belabors Hans
Habe* for criticizing the view that Nazis are winning
positions of influence in today’s Germany:

“...Thus there begins a cold war against the Nazis...
They are to be released from prison but excluded from
jobs... Herr Habe’s mentality is dangerous — it en-
dangers democracy — the Hitler in us and Herr Habe...

“We are told that the Germans are to be demo-
cratically educated to renounce their prejudice against
the Jews... How is this to be if prejudice is displayed
by the Jews and returned emigrants like Habe them-

.* Hans Habe, who headed ISD's operations of the overt US Army
German-language newspapers immediately after the war and was
founder of the US-published “Die Neue Zeitung,” recently returned
to Germany as a correspondent and publisher of a new magazine.

FEBRUARY 1950

43

selves? Do those who are themselves intolerant want to
teach us tolerance?

“Herr Habe overlooks the fact that there is no more
room for hate in German hearts... We don’t want a cold
war, even against Nazis. Perhaps the feeling in Washing-
ton and Moscow is different...

“This to Herr Habe from a Dresdener who survived
the Allied bombing of that city, as well as denazifica-
tion."

Compensation

The Tagesspiegel (US-licensed, Berlin, Jan. 10) de-
mands that democratic ideas be spread in eastern Ger-
many as freely as Communists are permitted to operate
in the western zones. Stressing that despite various
democratic slogans circulated in the Soviet Zone demo-
cratic views were not allowed in practice, the paper
points to the difference between East Germany, where
democrats are exposed to prohibitions, terror and con-
centration camps, and West Germany, where Communist
leader Max Reimann is granted freedom of speech.

In the west zones, government officials intervene in
favor of Communist editors reprimanded by the British
authorities and police protection is accorded meetings
held to praise the Soviet Union.

Schuman’s Visit

The Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim, W/B, Jan. 12),
commenting on French Foreign Minister Schuman's visit
to Germany, said, “... It is not coincidence that Mr.
Schuman has chosen to visit us at this moment when
the question of Saar autonomy is up for discussion.

“We know what kind of autonomy is meant... but do
we want to. endanger European unity over such questions?
...The French demand sacrifices from us in order to
prove our good faith ... Let us therefore regard the
Saar as a dowry for the marriage between Marianne
and Michel (France and Germany) ... May we Germans
show the proper political instinct for once."

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Jan. 7)

In Mao Tse Tungs Garkueche
The Mao Tse-tung Cuisine!
John Bull: “Somewhat spicy—don't you want to try it?”
Uncle Sam: “No, thanks—I first want to see how it
agrees with you."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
(Hochlandbote, Garmisch, Jan. 5)

The Three Kings and the Star
“That can't be the right one!"

Peace Treaty

The Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidelberg, Jan. 12) ex-
presses the view that the intention of the three Western
Occupation Powers to end the formal state of war with
Germany by means of a tripartite declaration constitutes
one of the most important foreign political proposals
affecting Germany since the days of Potsdam.

Inasmuch as it has been impossible to form an all-
German government capable of conducting its affairs
and in view of the fact that a general peace treaty estab-
lishing the rights and obligations of both sides has not
been realized, the ending of the formal state of war
would serve for all practical purposes as a peace treaty.

Although details of the developments in this direction
are not known it appears from the reports thus far
circulated that this will be another Allied agreement of
the arbitrary unilateral type under which Germany is
left the opportunity to earn a position of equality in
time. It would seem therefore that the agreement should
include a clause establishing the basis
upon which Germany can hope to
assert its own rights. The problem is
one of transforming an arbitary uni-
lateral agreement (dictate) into a bi-
lateral settlement.

A practical peace treaty entered
into between the federal government
in Bonn and the Western Powers
would hardly serve the purpose of
peace and would only increase the
tension between East and West. The
policy of the Bonn government there-
fore should be based on the ultimate
requirements of a unified Germany.

The proposed declaration of the
Western Powers would not compro-
mise this development, however. On
the contrary, it would increase the
integrity and prestige of the federal
government both from standpoint of
the East and West. So far as the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Jan. 9)

Welthandlungsreisender England
Britain to Red China
“Buy your supplies from me and get
a beautiful recognition. certificate.”

44

(Fraenkischer Tag, Bamberg, Jan. 5)

FINNIAND

Russia to Finnland
“Just looking for my War Criminals."

Occupation troops’ remaining in Germany is concerned,
this development need not be considered an anachronism
after the end of the state of war or even in the event
of a peace treaty.

‘What is important is the role and influence retained
by these powers. The Occupation Statute, on the other
hand, would require revision to be brought into harmony
with the situation arising after the state of war has been
ended.

Signs of Alarm

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich, Jan. 12) blames
the federal government for neglecting unemployment.
The paper thinks it a shame that Allied officials have
had to draw public attention to the alarming figures of
increasing unemployment and that they themselves con-
template measures to meet the situation. Federal Labor
Minister Storch’s prophecy that this winter will bring
no increase in unemployment has not come true.

Some people again will accuse the Allies of meddling
with German affairs because they had said that even
countries with a free economy work out plans against
unemployment. The United States, at least, as the Bonn
ministers should know, have their
work procurement programs ready on
the desks to put them into action
when the necessity arises. The Ger-
man govemment has worked out noth-
ing theoretical declarations.

“It is now time," summed up the
paper, for the federal government to
understand that a slow start with their
buildings programs will not help un-
employment. The ministers would do
better to spend less time traveling
and talking.”

Colonialism

Echo der Woche (Munich, Dec. 30)
compares Britain unfavorably to Hol-
land in its attitude to colonial as well
as European problems:

“...When Queen Juliana
nized Indonesian
cently...

Tecog-
independence re-
she drew a line under a

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 48 ---
chapter of not only Dutch, but European colonial
history... Thus Holland proves that she alone of the
former colonial powers has a realistic sense of perspec-
tive. This is shown too by her initiative in the building
of European economic union.

“It would be desirable if England which is the stumb-
ling block to such union, could also be persuaded to
new orientation. But this can hardly be expected as long
as Mr. Bevin remains in office. This British minister ...
is completely devoid of far-sightedness and vision. How
otherwise could he pick Christmas Eve to issue new
dismantling orders?...

“British colonial policy has led directly from the Opium
War to Mao Tse-tung. Let's pray that Mr. Bevin will
resign before a line leads from dismantling to a Com-
munist-unified Germany."

“Un-American American”

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, Dec. 19), under the
title ‘What the Americans Are Told about Us," continues
its bitter attacks on Frank Wolfe’s* series of articles on
Germany in the Paris edition of the New York Herald-
Tribune:

“...In a new instalment Wolfe Frank deals with the
breakdown of sexual morality in Germany. He is a
bachelor and, not without a certain satisfaction, he in-
dicates how difficult it is for a bachelor traveling through
Germany to resist the siren calls of our German women
and girls, especially as one must pay. He writes not of
the Veronika Dankeschoens ("Veronica Thank-yous") but
of the bulk of our womanhood, which he says is 90 per-
cent venal! The only difference is the price...

“With the lack of men in Germany, Mr. Frank de-
scribes a bachelor’s paradise... He says the French Zone
is the best managed in Germany. Why? Because the

* French treat us with ‘cold politeness and extreme firm-
ness.’ Britons and Americans sometimes sit down to a

* Mr. Frank, who was born in Germany, is a naturalized British
subject.

(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, Dec. 20)
NN,

"hay,

‘Grotewohl

Minisver-
Prasidenta.D.

.

Diagnose: ,,Mangel an roten Blutkoerperchen’’
East Zone Doctors: “Not enough red corpuscles.”

FEBRUARY 1950

AS

(Frankenpost, Hof, Dec. 15)

IN KRIEGSGEFANGENSCHAFT
|,Hoffentlich entlaesst man uns bald, sonst kommen wir noch zu spaet
zur Musterung!"’

PWs
“Hope they release us soon, or we'll be too late
to be mustered in.”

meal with ‘good’ Germans, which the French would
never dream of doing... Such is the sort of thing dished
out to the Americans by this un-American globe-
trotter!..."

High Prices

Die Oeffentliche Meinung (Stuttgart, Dec. 27), a new
weekly, calls on consumers to resist exorbitant prices:

“.,.It should be the duty of the press to systemati-
cally pillory and expose the excessively high prices
prevalent in West Germany... The trades union leader-
ship has a curiously lukewarm attitude in this matter...
Nothing can be hoped for from the government in this
respect because, despite its social-minded front, it is in
reality traditionally capitalistic in its outlook...

“In this it is supported by the authoritative American
circles in Germany which cast a jaundiced eye on the
smouldering social-mindedness of the German people,
and still do not realize that democracy in the American
sense is possible only in a country which enjoys general
prosperity...

“The only way that prices can be brought down is
through a buyers’ strike or if enough energetic politicians
take up the cudgels.”

Films

This Stuttgart weekly, whose contents consist almost
entirely of contributions by readers, also attacks the
quality of present day American and German films:

“...The crowds that turn out when an old German
film is shown is proof that such pictures are far superior
to the junk that we get to see nowadays. Mostly they
are silly Ami (slang for American) films, just about good
enough for Negroes or Wild West characters, but not for
us Germans... The same applies to the new German
productions.” -++ END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Official Notices

Texts of ECA Agreement
and Documents

1, Economic Cooperation Agree-
ment between the United States of
America and the Federal Republic of
Germany,

Preamble

The Government of the United States of
America

and

The Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany:

Recognizing that the restoration or main-
tenance in European countries of principles
ot individual liberty, free institutions and
genuine independence rests largely upon the
establishment of sound economic conditions,
stable international economic relationships
and the achievement by the countries of
Europe of a healthy economy independent of
extraordinary outside assistance,

Recognizing that a strong and prosperous
European economy is essential for the attain-
ment of the purposes of the United Nations,

Considering that the achievement of such
conditions calls for a European recovery plan
of self-help and mutual cooperation, open to
all nations which cooperate in such a plan,
based upon a strong production effort, the
expansion of foreign trade, the creation or
maintenance of internal financial stability and
the development of economic cooperation, in-
cluding all possible steps to establish and
maintain valid rates of exchange and to
reduce trade barriers,

Considering that in furtherance of these
principles the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany has become a member
of the Organization for European Economic
Cooperation, created pursuant to the provi-
sions of a Convention for European Economic
Cooperation signed at Paris on April 16, 1948,
under which the signatories of that conven-
tion agreed to undertake as their immediate
task the elaboration and execution of a joint
recovery program,

Considering also that, in furtherance of these
principles, the Government of the United
States of America has enacted the Economic
Cooperation Act of 1948 as amended providing
for the furnishing of assistance by the United
States of America to nations participating in
a joint program for European recovery, in
order to enable such nations through their
own individual and concerted efforts to be-
come independent of extraordinary outside
economic assistance,

Desiring to set forth the understandings
which govern the furnishing of assistance by
the government of the United States of
America, the receipt of such assistance by
the Federal Republic of Germany, and the
measures which the two governments will
take individually and together in furthering
the recovery of the Federal Republic us an
integral part of the joint program for European
recovery;

Have agreed as follows:

Article I

(Assistance and Cooperation)

1, The Government of the United States of
America undertakes to assist the Federal
Republic of Germany by making available to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Texts of the bilateral agreement between
the United States and the Federal Repubtic
of Germany, and side documents signed in
Bonn on Dec. 16 were provided by the
Council of Foreign Ministers and the
Research Branch, Foreign Relations Divis-
ion, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG.
These texts are of:

1. Economic Cooperation Agreement
between the United States of America and
the Federal Republic of Germany.

2. Agreement between the United States
and United Kingdom High Commissioners
for Germany and the Federal Republic of
Germany—ECA Accounts,

3. Agreement between the French High
Commissioner for Germany and the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany—ECA Accounts.

4, Agreement between the United States
and United Kingdom High Commissioners
for Germany and the Federal Republic of
Germany—GARIOA Accounts.

5. Letter from the US High Commissioner
for Germany to the chancellor of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany.

6, Letter from the special representative
of the Economic Cooperation Administration
for Germany to the chancellor of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany.

the Government of the Federal Republic or
to any person, agency or organization desig-
nated by the latter government, aid under
the terms, conditions and termination provi-
sions of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948,
acts amendatory and supplementary thereto
and appropriation acts thereunder. Such aid
will be provided upon the approval by the
Government of the United States of America
of requests made by the Government of the
Federal Republic and will consist of only
such commodities, services and other assist-
ance as are authorized to be made available
by the above acts. The Government of the
United States of America undertakes further
to extend assistance to the Federal Republic
under applicable provisions of Appropriation
Acts for the Government and Relief of Occu-
pied Areas.

2. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany, acting individually and through
the Organization for European Economic Coope-
ration, consistently with the Convention for
European Economic Cooperation signed at
Paris on April 16, 1948, will exert sustained
efforts in common with other participating
countries speedily to achieve through a joint
recovery program economic conditions in
Europe essential to lasting peace and pros-
perity and to enable the countries of Europe
participating in such a joint recovery program
to become independent of extraordinary out-
side economic assistance within the period
of this agreement. The Government of the
Federal Republic affirms its intention to take
action to carry out the provisions of the
general obligations of the Convention for
European Economic Cooperation, to continue
to participate actively in the work of the
Organization for European Economic Cooper
ation, and to continue to adhere to the pure
Poses and policies of the Economic Cooper-
ation Act of 1948 as amended.

3. All assistance except conditional aid fur-
nished by the Government of the United

46

States of America to the Federal Republic
of Germany pursuant to this agreement shall
constitute a claim against Germany. To the
extent that expenditures are made from the
ERP Special Account established under Ar-
ticle IV of this agreement for the purposes
set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of that article
and for purposes not of direct benefit to
the German economy or the German people,
such claim against Germany shall be reduced
in an amount commensurate with such expend-
itures. To the extent that expenditures are
made from the GARIOA Special Account estab-
lished under Article V of this agreement,
credit will be given, at the time of final
settlement of the claim of the United States
of America against Germany, for any amounts
expended for purposes which are then deter-
mined not to have been for the benefit of the
German economy or the German people. The
proceeds of exports from all future produc-
tion and stocks of the Federal Republic will
be available for payment for assistance made
available pursuant to this agreement, At the
earliest practicable time consistent with the
tebuilding of the economy of the Federal
Republic on healthy, peaceful lines, such pro-
ceeds shall be applied for such payment on
a basis not less favorable to the United States
than that accorded the United States or the
United Kingdom for costs incurred pursuant to
the memorandum of agreement between the
United States and the United Kingdom dated
Dec. 2, 1946, as revised and supplemented,
relating to the economic integration of the
United States and United Kingdom Zones of
Germany,

4, With respect to assistance furnished by
the Government of the United States of
America to the Federal Republic of Germany
and procured from areas outside the United
States of America, its territories and posses-
sions, the government of the Federal Republic
will cooperate with the Government of the
United States of America in ensuring that
procurement will be effected at reasonable
prices and on reasonable terms and so as to
arrange that the dollars thereby made avail-
able to the country from which the assistance
is procured are used in a manner consistent
with any arrangements made by the Govern-
ment of the United States of America with _
such country,

Article II
(General Undertakings)

1, In order to achieve the maximum recovery
through the employment of assistance received
from the Government of the United States of
America, the Government of the Federal Re-
public of Germany will use its best endeavors:

a, To adopt or maintain the measures neces-
sary to ensure efficient and practical use of
all the resources available to it, including

(1) such measures as may be necessary to
ensure that the commodities and services
cbtained with assistance furnished under this
agreement are used for purposes consistent
with this agreement and, as far as practicable,
with the general purposes outlined in the
schedules furnished by the Government of the
Federal Republic in support of the requirements
of assistance to be furnished by the Govern-
ment of the United States of America; and _

(2) the observation and review of the use
of such resources through an effective follow-
up system approved by the Organization for
European Economic Cooperation;

b. To promote the development of industrial
and agricultural production on a sound econ-
omic basis to achieve such production targets
as may be established through the Organi-
zation for European Economic Cooperation and
when desired by the Government of the United
States of America to communicate to that

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 50 ---
government detailed proposals for specific pro-
jects contemplated by the Government of the
Federal Republic to be undertaken in sub-
stantial part with assistance made available
pursuant to this agreement, including whenever
practicable projects for increased production
of coal, transportation facilities and food;

c, To stabilize its currency, establish or
maintain a valid rate of exchange, balance its
governmental budgets as soon as practicable,
create or maintain internal financial stability,
and generally restore or maintain confidence
in its monetary system; and

d, To cooperate with other participating
countries in facilitating and stimulating an
increasing interchange of goods and services
among the participating countries and with
other countries and in reducing public and
private barriers to trade among themselves
and with other countries,

2, Taking into account Article VIII of the
Convention for European Economic Cooperation
looking toward the full and effective use of
manpower available in the participating coun-
tries, the Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will accord sympathetic con-
sideration to proposals, including proposals
made in conjunction with the International
Refugee Organization, directed to the largest
practicable utilization of manpower available
in any of the participating countries in fur-
therance of the accomplishment of the purposes
of this agreement,

3. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will take appropriate measures
and will cooperate with other participating
countries, to prevent, on the part of private
o1 public commercial enterprises, business prac-
tices or business arrangements effecting inter-
national trade which restrain competition, limit
access to markets or foster monopolistic
control whenever such practices or arrange-
ments have the effect of interfering with the
achievement of the joint program of European
Tecovery.

Article III
(Guaranties)

1, To the extent that foreign private invest-
ment is permitted in the Federal Republic of
Germany, the Governments of the United States
of America, and the Federal Republic will,
upon the request of either Government, consult
respecting projects in the Federal Republic pro-
pesed by nationals of the United States of
America and with regard to which the Govern-
ment of the United States of America may
appropriately make guaranties of currency
transfer under Section 111 (b) (3) of the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Act of 1948 as amended.

2. The Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany agrees that if the Government of the
United States of America makes payment in
United States dollars to any person under such
a guaranty, any Deutsche marks, or credits in
Deutsche marks, assigned or transferred to the
Government of the United States of America
pursuant to that section shall be recognized as
Property of the Government of the United
States of America, and the Government of the
United States will accordingly be subrogated to
any right, title, claim or cause of action existing
in connection with such Deutsche marks or cre-
dits in Deutsche marks.

Article IV
(ERP Special Account)

1. The provisions of this article shall apply
with respect to all-assistance which may be
furnished by the Government of the United
States of America under the authority of the
Economic Cooperation Act of 1948, as amended,
other than as conditional aid or guaranties.

2. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will establish a special account

FEBRUARY 1950

(hereinafter called the ERP Special Account) in
the Bank Deutscher Laender in the name of the
Government of the Federal Republic and will
make deposits in Deutsche marks to this
account as follows:

a. The balance at the close of business on
the effective date of this agreement in the spe-
cial account established in the Bank Deutscher
Laender in the name of the Military Governors
pursuant to the agreement between the Go-
vernment of the United States of America and
the United States and United Kingdom Mili-
tary Governors in Germany, acting on behalf
of the United States and United Kingdom Occu-
pied Areas in Germany, made on July 14, 1948;

b, The balance at the close of business on
the effective date of this agreement in the spe-
cial account, now established in the Bank Deut-
scher Laender in the name of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief pursuant to the agreement
between the Government of the United States
of America and the French Commander-in-Chief
in Germany, acting on behalf of the French
Zone of Occupation of Germany, made on
July 9, 1948;

c. All amounts required to be deposited in
the accounts referred to.in paragraphs a. and b.
of this section, after the effective date of this
agreement, in fulfillment of obligations assumed
by the Government of the Federal Republic
under Article XII of this agreement; and

d. Amounts in Deutsche marks commensurate
with the indicated dollar cost to the Government
of the United States of America of commodities,
services, and technical information (including
any costs of processing, storing, transporting,
repairing, or other services, incident thereto)
made available after the effective date of this
agreement, to the Federal Republic of Ger-
many in the form of assistance under the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Act of 1948, as amended
other than as conditional aid or guarantees.
The Government of the United States of Ame-
rica shall from time to time notify the Govern-
ment of the Federal Republic of the indicated
dollar costs of any such commodities, services,
and technical information, and the amounts in
Deutsche marks commensurate with such in-
dicated dollac costs shall be determined in the
following manner: Pending the establishment of
an official effective commercial rate of exchange
between the dollar and the Deutsche mark the
Government of the Federal Republic will, upon
receipt of such notification, deposit in the ERP
Special Account amounts of Deutsche marks as
agreed upon between the Government of the
United States and the Government of the Fed-
eral Republic, These amounts will be computed
at the current official conversion factor, unless
otherwise agreed upon by the competent
authorities. Deposits in the ERP Special Account
made, upon notification by the Government of
the United States, after an official effective
commercial rate of exchange has been estab-
lished, will be amounts of Deutsche marks com-
puted at said rate.

3. The Government of the United States of
America will from time to time notify the Go-
vernment of the Federal Republic of Germany
of its requirements for administrative expendi-
tures in Deutsche marks within the Federal Re-
public incident to operations under the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Act of 1948 as amended, and
the Government of the Federal Republic will
thereupon make such sums available out of
any balances in the ERP Special Account in the
manner requested by the Government of the
United States of America in the notification.

4, Five percent of each deposit made pursuant
to this article shall be allocated to the use of
the Government of the United States of Amer-
ica for its expenditures in the Federal Republic
of Germany, including expenditures for procur-
ing and stimulating increased production of
materials which are required by the United

47

States as a result of deficiencies or potential
deficiencies in its own resources, and sums
made available pursuant to paragraph 3 of this
article shall first be charged to the amounts
allocated under this paragraph.

5. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will further make such sums of
Deutsche marks available out of any balances
in the ERP Special Account as may be re-
quired to cover costs (including port, storage,
handling, and similar charges) of transportation
from any point of entry in the Federal Re-
public to the consignee's designated point of
delivery in the Federal Republic of such relief
supplies and packages as are referred to in
Article VIII.

6, The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany may draw upon any remaining ba-
Jance in the ERP Special Account for such pur-
poses as may be agreed from time to time with
the Government of the United States of Ame-
rica, In considering the proposals put forward
by the Government of the Federal Republic for
drawings from the ERP Special Account, the
Government of the United States of America
will take into account the need for promoting
or maintaining internal monetary and financial
stabilization in the Federal Republic, including
in particular:

a. Expenditures upon projects or programs,
including those which are part of a comprehen-
sive program for the development of the pro-
ductive capacity of the Federal Republic and
the other participating countries, and projects
or programs the external costs of which are
being covered by assistance rendered by the
Government of the United States of America
under the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948
as amended, or otherwise, or by loans from
the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development;

b. Expenditures upon the exploration for and
development of additional production of mate-
rials which may be required in the United
States of America because of deficiencies or
potential deficiencies in the resources of the
United States of America; and

c. Effective retirement of the public debt,
especially debt held by the Bank Deutscher
Laender or other banking institutions.

7. Any unencumbered balance, other than
unexpended amounts allocated under para-
graph 4 of this article, remaining in the ERP
Special Account on June 30, 1952, shall be
disposed of within the Federal Republic of
Germany for such purposes as may hereafter
be agreed between the Governments of the
United States of America and the Federal
Republic, it being understood that the agree-
ment of the United States of America shall
Be subject to approval by act or joint reso-
lution of the Congress of the United States
of America.

Article V
(GARIOA Special Account)

1, The provisions of this article shall apply
with respect to all assistance which may be
furnished by the Government of the United
States of America under the authority of the
applicable provisions of Appropriation Acts for
the Government and Relief of Occupied Areas.

2, The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will establish a special account
(hereinafter called the GARIOA Special Account)
in the Bank Deutscher Laender (Bank of Ger-
man States) in the name of the Government
of the Federal Republic and will make depo-
sits in Deutsche mark (German d&rrency) to
this account as follows:

a, Any balance at the close of business on
the effective date of this agreement in the
special account in the Bank Deutscher Laender
entitled “Proceeds of GARIOA Imports Sub-
Account” of “‘Military Governors for Ger-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
many (US/UK) Proceeds from Deferred Pay-
ments Import Account,”

b, All amounts due for deposit as of the
effective date of this agreement, or which
may become due after such date, in fulfill-
ment of the obligations assumed by the
Government of the Federal Republic under
Article 133 of the Basic Law for the Federal
Republic, insofar as such obligations are
related to arrangements for the provision of
assistance to Germany authorized under appli-
cable provisions of Appropration Acts for the
Government and Relief of Occupied Areas; and

c. Amounts in Deutsche mark commensurate
with the indicated dollar cost to the Govern-
ment of the United States of commodities and
services (including any costs of processing,
storing, transporting, repairing or other ser-
vices incident thereto) made available after
the effective date of this agreement, to the
Federal Republic of Germany under the author-
ity of applicable provisions of Appropriation
Acts for the Government and Relief of Occu-
pied Areas. The Government of the United
States of America shall from time to time
notify the Government of the Federal Republic
of the indicated dollar costs of any such
commodities and services, and the amounts in
Deutsche mark commensurate with such indi-
cated dollar costs shall be determined in the
manner set forth in Article IV (2) (d).

3. The Government of the United States of
America will from time to time notify the
Government of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many of expenditures in Deutsche matk to
be paid from the GARIOA Special Account,
and the Government of the Federal Republic
will thereupon make such sums available out
of any balances in the GARIOA Special Account
in the manner requested by the Government
of the United States of America in the notifi-
cation,

4, The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany may draw upon any remaining
balance in the GARIOA Special Account for
such purposes as may be agreed from time
to time with the Government of the United
States of America, In considering proposals
put forward by the Government of the Federal
Republic for drawings from the GARIOA Special
Account, the Government of the United States
of America will take into account the general
considerations set forth in Article IV (6) of
this agreement.

Article VI
{Access to Materials)

1. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will facilitate the transfer to the
United States of America, for stock piling or
other purposes, of materials originating in the
Federal Republic which are required by the
United States of America as a result of defi-
ciencies or potential deficiencies in its own
resources, upon such reasonable terms of sale,
exchange, barter or otherwise, and in such
quantities, and for such period of time as may
be agreed to between the Governments of the
United States of America and the Federal
Republic, after due regard for the reasonable
requirements of the Federal Republic, for
domestic use and commercial export of such
materials. The Government of the Federal Re-
public will take such specific measures as may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of
this paragraph, including the promotion of the
increased production of such materials within
the Federal Republic, and the removal of any
hindrances *to the transfer of such materials
to the United States of America. The Govern-
ment of the Federal Republic will, when so
requested by the Government of the United
States of America, enter into negotiatious for
detailed arrangements necessary to carry out
the provisions of this paragraph.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

2. Recognizing the principle of equity in
respect to the drain upon the natural resources
of the United States of America, and of the
participating countries, the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany will, when so
requested by the Government of the United
States of America, negotiate where applicable,

a. A future schedule of minimum availabili-
ties to the United States of America for future
purchase and delivery of a fair share of
materials originating in the Federal Republic
which are required by the United States of
America as a result of deficiencies or poten-
tial deficiencies im its own resources at world
market prices so as to protect the access of
United States industry to an equitable share
of such materials either in percentages of
production or in absolute quantities from the
Federal Republic;

b. Arrangements providing suitable protec-
tion for the right of access for any citizen of
the United States of America or any corpo-
ration, partnership, or other association created
under the laws of the United States of America
or of any state or territory thereof and sub-
stantially beneficially owned by citizens of
the United States of America, in the develop-
ment of such materials on terms of treatment
equivalent to those afforded to the nationals
of the Federal Republic; and

c. An agreed schedule of increased production
of such materials where practicable in the
Federal Republic and for delivery of an agreed
percentage of such increased production to be
transferred to the United States of America on
a long-term basis on consideration of assistance
furnished by the United States of America
under this agreement,

3. The Government of-the Federal Republic
of Germany, when so requested by the Govern-
ment of the United States of America, will
cooperate, wherever appropriate, to further the
objectives of paragraphs 1 and 2, of this article
in respect of materials originating outside the
Federal Republic of Germany.

Article VII
(Aid to Berlin)

The Federal Republic agrees to make available
to the US, UK and French Sectors of Berlin, to
the maximum extent possible, such assistance
as may, in consultation between the Govern-
ments of the Federal Republic and of the City
of Berlin, be determined to be required for the
economic maintenance and development of
that area.

Article VIII

(Travel Arrangements and Relief Supplies)

1. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will cooperate with the Govern-
ment of the United States of America in faci-
litating and encouraging the promotion and
development of travel by citizens of the United
States of America to and within participating
countries.

2, The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will, when so desired by the Go-
vernment of the United States: of America,
enter into negotiations for agreements (in-
cluding the provision of duty-free treatment
under appropriate safeguards) to facilitate the
entry into the Federal Republic of supplies of
relief goods donated to or purchased by United
States voluntary non-profit relief agencies and
of relief packages originating in the United
States of America and consigned to individuals
residing in the Federal Republic.

Article IX

(Consultation and Transmittal of Information)

1. The two governments will, upon the
request of either them, consult regarding any
matter relating to the application of this agree-

48

ment or to operations or arrangements carried
out pursuant to this agreement.

2, The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will communicate to the Govern-
ment of the United States of America in a form
and at intervals to be indicated by the latter
after consultation with the Government of the
Federal Republic:

a, Detailed information of projects, programs
and measures proposed or adopted by the Gov-
ernment of the Federal Republic to carry out
the provisions of this agreement and the gen-
eral obligations of the Convention for European
Economic Cooperation;

b. Full statements of operations under this
agreement, including a statement of the use of
funds, commodities and services received there-
under, such statements to be made in each
calendar quarter;

c. Information regarding its economy and
any other relevant information, necessary to
supplement that obtained by the Government
of the United States of America from the Or-
ganization for European Economic Cooperation
which the Government of the United States
of America may need to determine the nature
and scope of operations under the Economic
Cooperation Act of 1948 as amended, and to
evaluate the effectiveness of assistance fur-
nished or contemplated under this agreement
and generally the progress of the joint
recovery program.

3. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will assist the Government of the
United States of America to obtain information
relating to the materials originating in the
Federal Republic referred to in Article VI
which is necessary to the formulation and
execution of the arrangements provided for in
that article.

Article X
(Publicity)

1. The Government of the United States of
America and the Federal Republic of Germany
recognize that it is in their mutual interest that
full publicity be given to the objectives and
progress of the joint program for European
recovery and of the actions taken in furtherance
of that program. It is recognized that wide
dissemination of information on the progress
of the program is desirable in order to develop
the sense of common effort and mutual aid
which are essential to the accomplishment of
the objectives of the program.

2. The Government of the United States of
America will encourage the dissemination of
such information and will make it available to
the media of public information. '

3. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will encourage the dissemination
of such information both directly and in
cooperation with the Organization for European
Economic Cooperation. It will make such infor-
mation available to the media of public infor-
mation and take all practicable steps to ensure
that appropriate facilities are provided for such
dissemination. It will further provide other
participating countries and the Organization for
European Economic Cooperation with full infor-
mation on the progress of the program for
economic recovery.

4, The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany will make public in the Federal

Republic in each calender quarter full statements ©

of operations under this agreement, including
information as to the use of funds, commodities
and services received.

Article XI
(Missions)

1, The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany agrees to receive a Special Mission
for Economic Cooperation which will discharge
the responsibilities of the Government of the

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 52 ---
United States of America in the Federal Re-
public under this agreement.

2. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany, upon appropriate notification
from the Government of the United States, will
accord appropriate courtesies to the Special
Mission and its personnel, the United States
special representative in Europe and his staff,
and the members and staff of the Joint Com-
mittee on Foreign Economic Cooperation of the
Congress of the United States of America, and
will grant them the facilities and assistance
necessary to the effective performance of their
responsibilities to assure the accomplishment
of the purposes of this agreement.

3. The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany, directly and through its represent-
atives on the Organization for European
Economic Cooperation will extend full co-
operation to the Special Mission, to the Unit-
ed States special representative in Europe and
his staff, and to the members and the staff of
the Joint Committee, Such cooperation shall in-
clude the provision of all information and
facilities necessary to the observation and re-
view of the carrying out of this agreement, i
cluding the use of assistance furnished under it,

Article XII
(Outstanding Obligations and Commitments)

The Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany agrees to assume any obligations of
the United States or United Kingdom military
governors, the French commander-in-chief,
or the United States, United Kingdom, or
French High Commissioners in Germany,
undertaken, prior to the effective date of this
agreement, pursuant to or in carrying out the
agreements between the Government of the
United States of America and said military
governors acting on behalf of the United
States and United Kingdom Occupied Areas
in Germany, made on July 14, 1948, and be-
tween the Government of the United States of
America and the French commander-in-chief
in Germany, acting on behalf of the French
Zone of Occupation of Germany, made on
July 9, 1948, or pursuant to or in carrying out
of arrangements for the provision of assistance
to Germany authorized under applicable pro-
visions of Appropriation Acts for the Govern-
ment and Relief of Occupied Areas, to the
full extent that the discharge of such obliga-
tion is within the jurisdiction of the Federal
Republic of Germany. The Government of the
Federal Republic further undertakes to assume
full responsibility in connection with any and
all claims against the military governors or
the high commissioners which may now exist or
hereafter arise in connection with transactions
entered into in carrying out the agreements or
arrangements above referred to. The Govern-
ment of the United States of America, for its
part, agrees to honor any commitments made
Prior to the effective date of this agreement,
pursuant to the Agreements referred to above.

Article XIII
(Definitions)

As used in this agreement:

1, The term “participating country" means:

a. Any country which signed the report of
the Committee of European Economic Co-
operation at Paris on September 22, 1947, and
territories for which it has international re-
sponsibility and to which the Economic Co-
operation Agreement concluded between that
country and the Government of the United
States of America has been applied; and

b. Any other country (including any of the
zones of occupation of Germany, any areas
under international administration or control
and the Free Territory of Trieste or either of
its zones) wholly or partly in Europe, together
with dependent areas under its administration;

FEBRUARY 1950

for so long as such country is a party to the
Convention for European Economic Cooperation
and adheres to a joint program for European
recovery designed to accomplish the purposes
of this Agreement.

2. The term ‘‘conditional aid’’ means dollars
furnished by the Government of the United
States under the authority of the Economic Co-
operation Act of 1948, as amended, to a
participating country on condition that such
country advance equivalent aid in the form of
drawing rights in its own currency to other
participating countries.

Article XIV

Nothing in this agreement shall be deem-
ed to:

a. Authorize or require any action incon-
sistent with the Occupation Statute, or with
legislation or other measures of the Occupation
Authorities, or with agreements relating to
Germany concluded by or on behalf of the Gov-
ernments of the United States, the United
Kingdom and France among themselves or
jointly with other governments (including the
agreement establishing the International
Authority for the Ruhr);

b. Affect in any way the obligations of the
Federal Republic under existing agreements or
arrangements entered into on behalf of Ger-
many; or

c. Abrogate or in any way limit the rights
or powers of the Governments of the United
States, the United Kingdom or France, jointly
or severally, in respect to Germany, from
whatever source derived and however exer-
cised,

Article XV

(Entry into Force, Amendment, Duration)

1, This agreement shall become effective
upon notification by the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany to the Govern-
ment of the United States that all necessary
legal requirements in connection with the
conclusion by the Federal Republic of this
agreement have been fulfilled. Subject to the
provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this
article, it shall remain in force until June 30,
1953, and, unless at least six months before
June 30, 1953, either government shall have
given notice in writing to the other of in-
tention to terminate the agreement on that
date, it shall remain in force thereafter until
the expiration of six months from the date
on which such notice shall have been given.

2, If during the life of this agreement, either
government should consider there has been
a fundamental change in the basic assumptions
underlying this agreement, it shall so notify
the other government in writing and the two
governments will thereupon consult with a
view to agreeing upon the amendment, modi-
fication or termination of this agreement, If,
after three months from such notification the
two governments have not agreed upon the
action to be taken in the circumstances, either
government may give notice in writing to the
other of intention to terminate this agreement.
Then, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3
of this article, this agreement shall terminate
either:

a. Six months after the date of such notice
of intention to terminate; or

b, After such shorter period as may be
agreed to be sufficient to ensure that the
obligations of the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany are performed in respect
of any assistance which may continue to be
furnished by the Government of the United
States of America after the date of such notice;
provided, however, that Article VI and para-
graph 3 of Article IX shall remain in effect
until two years after the date of such notice
of intention to terminate, but not later than
June 30, 1953.

49

3. Subsidiary agreements and arrangements
negotiated pursuant to this agreement may
remain in force beyond the date of termination
of this agreement and the period of effec-
tiveness of such subsidiary agreements and
arrangements shall be governed by their own
terms. Articles IV and V shall remain in effect
until all the sums in the currency of the
Federal Republic of Germany required to be
deposited in accordance with its own terms
have been disposed of as provided in these
Articles, Paragraph 2 of Article III shall remain
in effect for so long as the guaranty payments
referred to in that Article may be made by
the Government of the United States of America,

4. This agreement may be amended at any
time by agreement between the two Govern-
ments, subject to required legal procedures in
each country.

5, The annex to this agreement forms an
integral part thereof.

6. This agreement shall be registered with
the secretary-general of the United Nations.

In witness whereof the respective represen-
tatives, duly authorized for the purpose, have
signed the present Agreement,

Done atBonn, in duplicate, both texts authen-
tic, this 15th day of December, 1949.

For the
Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany
For the
Government of the United States
of America

Annex
(Interpretative Notes)

1. It is understood that the requirements of
paragraph 1 a. of Article II, relating to the
adoption of measures for the efficient use of
resources, would include, with respect to com-
modities furnished under the Agreement, effec-
tive measures for safeguarding such commodities
and for preventing their diversion to illegal
or irregular markets or channels of trade.

2. It is understood that the obligation under
paragraph 1 c. of Article II to balance the
budgets as soon as practicable would not
preclude deficits over a short period but would
mean a budgetary policy involving the ba-
lancing of the budgets in the long run.

3. It is understood that the business prac-
tices and business arrangements referred to in
paragraph 3 of Article II mean:

a. Fixing prices, terms or conditions to be
observed in dealing with others in the purchase,
sale or lease of any product;

b, Excluding enterprises from, or allocating
or dividing, any territorial market or fields of
business activity, or allocating customers, or
fixing sales quotas or purchase quotas;

c. Discriminating against particular enter-
prises;

d, Limiting production or fixing production
quotas;

e. Preventing by agreement the development
or application of “technology or invention
whether patented or unpatented;

f. Extending the use of rights under patents,
trademarks or copyrights granted by either
country to matters which, according to its laws
and regulations, are not within the scope of
such grants or to products or conditions of
production, use or sale which are likewise not
the subjects of such grants; and .

g- Such other practices as the two govern-
ments may agree to include,

It is further understood that any undertakings
of the Federal Republic with respect to the
above practices will be subject to the provi-
sions of Article XIV of this agreement,

4, It is understood that the Government of
the Federal Republic of Germany is obligated
to take action in particular instances in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
accordance with paragraph 3 of Article II only
afler appropriate investigation or examination.

5. It is understood that the date of noti-
fication referred to in Article IV 2 d. shall
mean, for purposes of determining the conver-
sion rate to be used in computing the amount
in Deutsche Mark commensurate with the in-
dicated dollar cost shown on any notification
to the Government of the Federal Republic,
the date of the last day of the disbursement
period covered by such notification.

6, It is understood that the obligation of the
Federal Republic to deposit counterpart under
Article IV includes the obligation to deposit
counterpart against any notification made sub-
sequent to the effective date of this agreement,
of the dollar cost of commodities, services and
technical information authorized for procure-
ment prior to this Agreement,

7, It is understood that the phrase in Ar-
ticle VI, ‘After due regard for the reasonable
requirements of the Federal Republic for do-
mestic use" would include the maintenance of
reasonable stocks of the materials concerned
and that the phrase “commercial export’ might
include barter transactions. It is also under-
stood that arrangements negotiated under Ar-
ticle VI might appropriately include provisions
for consultation, in accordance with the prin-
ciples of Article 32 of the Havana Charter of
an International Trade Organization, in the
event that stock piles are liquidated.

8. It is understood that the Government of
the Federal Republic of Germany will not be
requested, under paragraph 2 a. of Article IX,
to furnish detailed information about minor
projects or confidential commercial or technical
information the disclosure of which would
injure legitimate commercial interests,

9, Nothing in Article XIV shall be deemed
to affect in any way the fact that the under-
taking of the Government of the United States
under Article I of this agreement is limited
to furnishing assistance under the terms, con-
ditions and termination provisions of the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Act of 1948, acts amendatory
and supplementary thereto and appropriation
acts thereunder, and to extending assistance
under applicable provisions of appropriation
acts for the Government and Relief of Occu-
pied Areas.

10. In the determination of the obligations
of the Federal Republic under Article VII of
this agreement, account will be taken by the
Government of the United States of the eco-
nomic and financial situation in the Federal
Republic and in Berlin.

Agreement between the United States
and United Kingdom
High Commissioners for Germany
and the
Federal Republic of Germany

ECA Accounts

Agreement dated December 15, 1949, between
the United States High Commissioner for Ger-
many and the United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner for Germany (hereinafter together some-
times called the High Commissioners), parties
of the first part, and the Federal Republic of
Germany, party of the second part.

‘Whereas:

A. The Government of the United States of
America and the United States and United
Kingdom Military Governors for Germany
(hereinafter sometimes together called the
Military Governors), acting on behalf of the
United States and United Kingdom Occupied
Areas in Germany, on 14 July 1948, concluded
an Economic Cooperation Agreement, (herein-
after sometimes called the Bilateral Agreement
of 1948) a copy of which has been delivered
to the Federal Republic of Germany,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

B, Section 2 of Article’ IV of the Bilateral
Agreement of 1948 provides that the Muitary
Governors will establish a special account in
the Bank Deutscher Laender in the name of
the Military Governors and will make certain
deposits in Deutsche marks in said account;
including deposits of amounts in Deutsche
marks commensurate with the indicated dollar
cost of the Government of the United States
of America of commodities, services and tech-
nical information made available to the United
States/United Kingdom Occupied Areas in Ger-
many under the authority of the Economic
Cooperation Act of 1948.

C, In accordance with said Section 2 the
Military Governors in due course established
a special account in the Bank Deutscher Laen-
der in the name “Military Governors for Ger-
many (US/UK)"* (hereinafter sometimes called
the special account of the Military Governors).
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 6 of
Article IV of the Bilateral Agreement ot 1948,
the Military Governors might draw upon the
balance in the special account of the Military
Governors remaining after certain amouuts in
Deutsche marks had been made available out
of any balances in said account in accordance
with the provisions of Sections 3, 4 and 5 of
Article IV of the Bilateral Agreement of 1948,
but only for such purposes as might be agreed
from time to time with the Government of the
United States of America,

D. In accordance with the aforementioned
provisions of the Bilateral Agreement of 1948,
the Military Governors from time to time
made deposits in Deutsche marks in the spe-
cial account of the Military Governors and
withdrew from said account amounts in
Deutsche marks as provided in said agreement.

E, In accordance with an exchange of letters
between the acting United States Political
Adviser for Germany and the Military Gover-
nors of the United States/United Kingdom
Occupied Areas of Germany, dated April 28
and May 10, 1948, the Military Governors have
deposited, or are due to deposit, in the special
account of the Military Governors Deutsche
marks equivalent to the United States dollar
value of drawing rights made available to the
United States/United Kingdom Occupied Areas
by other participating countries under the
authority of the Economic Cooperation Act
of 1948.

F. There is also established in the names of
the Military Governors in the Bank Deutscher
Laender an account known as “Military Gov-
emors for Germany (US/UK) ERP Collec-
tions,"* which contains the proceeds of sale of
imports furnished to the Military Governors
by the Government of the United States under
the authority of the Economic Cooperation Act
of 1948,

G. From time to time the Military Governors
transferred from the account now known as
ERP Collections to the special account of the
Military Governors amounts required to be
deposited in the latter account pursuant to
Section 2 of Article IV of the Bilateral Agree-
ment of 1948, The amounts so required to be
transferred from time to time exceeded the
amounts of proceeds of sale of imports furnished
under the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948.
Pursuant to a letter dated 12 August 1949 from
the Military Governors to the Bank Deutscher
Laender the accumulated excess as of that
date, amounting to DM 353,107,330,26 was de-
bited to an account in the Bank Deutscher
Leender known as “Military Governors for
German US/UK Suspense Account’ (hereinafter
sometimes called the suspense account), By
said letter the Military Governors agreed with
Bank Deutscher Laender that they would not
request the United States Economic Coope-
ration Administration (hereinafter sometimes
called ECA) to release from the special account

50

of the Military Governors any amounts of
Deutsche marks the release of which would
reduce the credit balance in said account below
the amount of the then debit balance in the
suspense account,

H. The Federal Republic of Germany has
concluded with the Government of the United
States of America an Economic Cooperation
Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
sometimes called the Bilateral Agreement of
1949). Under said agreement the Federal Re-
public of Germany is required to transfer to a
special account in its name with the Bank
Deutscher Laender the balance at the close of
business on the effective date of the agreement
in the special account of the Military Governors,

I, The High Commissioners have succeeded
to all the rights and obligations of the Mili-
tary Governors under the Bilateral Agreement
of 1948 and in respect of the aforementioned
accounts with the Bank Deutscher Laender.

J, The High Commissioners are prepared, on
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,
to transfer to the Federal Republic of Ger-
many the credit balance in the special account
of the Military Governors, but only if the
Federal Republic of Germany shall assume all
obligations of and full responsibility for claims
against the Military Governors or the High
Commissioners which may now exist or
hereafter alise in connection with transactions
entered into pursuant to or in carrying out the
Bilateral Agreement of 1948, Now, therefore,
for and in consideration of the mutual under-
takings hereinafter set forth the parties hereto-
hereby agree as follows:

1, The High Commissioners hereby assign,
transfer and set over to the Federal Republic
of Germany all right, title and interest of the
High Commissioners in and to any and all
amounts standing to the credit of the High
Commissioners in the special Account of the
Military Governors and the ERP collection
account, and in and to any and all proceeds
of sale of imports heretofore furnished to the
High Commissioners by the Government of the
United States under the Bilateral Agreement of
1948 which have been heretofore collected but
not yet deposited in the special account of the
Military Governors, or which shall hereafter be
collected for the account of the High Commis-
sioners. The High Commissioners further
undertake to furnish to the Government of the
Federal Republic the information required to
establish an exact accounting statement of all
assets, including accounts receivable, and all
liabilities, contingent or otherwise, resulting
from operations under the Bilateral Agreement
of 1948.

2. The Federal Republic of Germany hereby
assumes all obligation of and full responsibility
for claims against the Military Governors and
the High Commissioners which may now exist
or hereafter arise in connection with trans-
action entered into pursuant to or in carrying
cut the Bilateral Agreement of 1948, and further
agrees to take appropriate measures to liqui-
date the suspense account as soon as possible;
and the Federal Republic of Germany hereby
agrees to indemnify and save harmless the
High Commissioners from and against any
claims or liabilities whatsoever arising out of
or in connection with the special account of the
Military Governors and the suspense account.

Agreement between

the French High Commissioner
for Germany and

the Federal Republic of Germany

ECA Accounts
Agreement dated 15 December 1949, between
French High Commissioner for Germany
(hereinafter sometimes called the High Com-

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 54 ---
missioner), party of the first part, and the
Federal Republic of Germany, party of the
second part.

Whereas:

A. The Government of the United States of
America and the French Commander-in-Chief
in Germany (hereinafter sometimes called the
conmmander-in-chief), acting on behalf of the
French Zone of Occupation in Germany, on
9 July 1948, concluded an Economic Coopera-
tion Agreement (hereinafter sometimes called
the Bilateral Agreement of 1948), a copy of
which has been delivered to the Federal Re-
public of Germany.

B, Section 2 of Article IV of the Bilateral
Agreement of 1948 provides that the Com-
mander-in-Chief will establish a special account
in the Landeszentralbank of Baden at Freiburg
in the name of the Commander-in-Chief and
will make certain deposits in Deutsche matks

in said account, including deposits of amounts -

in Deutsche marks commensurate with the
indicated dollar cost to the Government of the
United States of America of commodities,
services and technical information made avail-
able to the French Zone of Occupation of
Germany under the authority of the Economic
Cooperation Act of 1948.

C, In accordance with said Section 2 the
Military Governors in due course established
a special account in the Landeszentralbank of
Baden at Freiburg in the name of the French
Commander-in-Chief, which account has now
been transferred to the Bank Deutscher Laender
(hereinafter sometimes called the special
account for the French Zone), Pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6 of Article IV of the
Bilateral Agreement of 1948, the Commander-
in-Chief might draw upon the balance in the
special account for the French Zone remuining
after certain amounts in Deutsche marks had
been made available out of any balances in
said account in accordance with the provisions
oi Sections 3, 4 and 5 of Article IV of the
Bilateral Agreement of 1948, but only for such
purposes as might be agreed from time to
time with the Government of the United States
of America.

D. In accordance with the aforementioned
provisions of the Bilateral Agreement of 1948,
the Commander-in-Chief from time to time
made deposits in Deutsche marks in the special
account for the French Zone and withdrew
from said account amounts in Deutsche marks
as provided in said agreement. —

E, The amounts required to be transferred
from time to time into the special account
for the French Zone pursuant to the Bilateral
Agreement of 1948 have exceeded the amounts
actually deposited in said account. Pursuant
to a letter dated August 17, 1949, from the
Commander-in-Chief to the Bank Deutscher
Laender the accumulated excess as of that
date, amounting to DM 123,000,000 was debited
to an account in the Bank Deutscher Laender
known as “French Zone Suspense Account”
(hereinafter sometimes called the suspense
account). By said letter the Commander-in-
Chief agreed with Bank Deutscher Laender that
they would not request the United States
Economic Cooperation Administration (herein-
after sometimes called ECA) to release from
the special account for the French Zone any
amounts of Deutsche marks the release of
which would reduce the credit balance in said
account below the amount of the then debit
balance in the suspense account.

F, The Federal Republic of Germany has
concluded with the Government of the United
States of America an Economic Cooperation
Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
Sometimes called the Bilateral Agreement of
1949), Under said Agreement the Federal Re-
Public of Germany is required to transfer to
@ special account in its name with the Bank

FEBRUARY 1950

Deutscher Laender the balance at the close
of business on the effective date of the agree-
ment in the special account for the French
Zone.

G. The High Commissioner has succeeded
to all the rights and obligations of the Com-
mander-in-Chief under the Bilateral Agreement
of 1948 and in respect of the aforementioned
accounts with the Bank Deutscher Laender.

H, The High Commissioner is prepared, on
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,
to transfer to the Federal Republic of Ger-
many the credit balance in the Special Account
for the French Zone, but only if the Federal
Republic of Germany shall assume all obligati-
ons of and full responsibility for claims
against the Commander-in-Chief or the High
Commissioner which may now exist or here-
after arise in connection with transactions
entered into pursuant to or in carrying out
the Bilateral Agreement of 1948. Now, there-
fore, for and in consideration of the mutual
undertakings hereinafter set forth, the parties
hereto hereby agree as follow:

1, The High Commissioner hereby assigns,
transfers, and sets over to the Federal Re-
public of Germany all right, title and interest
of the High Commissioner in and to any all
amounts standing to the credit of the High
Commissioner in the Special Account for the
French Zone and in and to any and all pro-
ceeds of sale of imports heretofore furnished
to the High Commissioner by the Government
of the United States under the Bilateral Agree-
ment of 1948 which have heretofore been col-
lected but have not yet been deposited in the
Special Account for the French Zone, or which
shall hereafter be collected for the account of
the High Commissioner, The High Commis-
sioner further undertakes to furnish to the
Government of the Federal Republic the in-
formaticn required to establish an exact accoun-
ting statement of all assets, including accounts
receivable, and all liabilities, contingent or
otherwise, resulting from operations under the
Bilateral Agreement of 1948.

2. The Federal Republic of Germany hereby
assumes all obligations of and full responsi-
bility for claims against the Commander-in-
Chief and the High Commissioner which may
now exist or hereafter arise in connection with
transactions entered into pursuant to or in
carrying out the Bilateral Agreement of 1948,
and agrees to take appropriate measures to
liquidate the suspense account as soon as
possible, and the Federal Republic of Ger-
many hereby agrees to indemnify and save
harmless the High Commissioner from and
against any claims or liabilities whatsoever
arising out of or in connection with the special
account for the French Zone and the suspense
account,

Agreement between the United States
and United Kingdom
High Commissioners for Germany
and the
Federal Republic of Germany
GARIOA Accounts

Agreement dated December 15, 1949, be-
tween the United States High Commissioner
for Germany and the United Kingdom High
Commissioner for Germany (hereinafter to-
gether sometimes called the High Commis-

sioners), parties of the first part, and the
Federal Republic of Germany, party of the
second part.
Whereas:

A, The Government of the United States of
America, under the authority of applicable
provisions of Appropriations Acts for the Gov-
ernment and Relief of Occupied Areas, and
the Government of the United Kingdom, have

51

furnished assistance, (hereinafter sometimes
called GARIOA Assistance), to the Military
Governors of the United States and United
Kingdom Occupied Areas of Germany (herein-
after sometimes called the Occupied Areas)
for the benefit of said areas.

B. The Military Governors have established
an account in the Bank Deutscher Laender
known as ‘‘Military Governors for Germany
(US/UK) Proceeds from Deferred Payments Im-
port Account’ (hereinafter sometimes called
the deferred payments import account), The
Military Governors have from time to time
caused to be deposited in a sub-account of the
deferred payments import account, known as
“Proceeds of GARIOA Imports Sub-Account,”
the Deutsche mark proceeds collected from
purchasers in the Occupied Areas of GARIOA
Assistance furnished by the Government of
the United States of America and by the Gov-
ernment of the United Kingdom and have
established an obligation on the Bizonal Eco-
nomic Administration to deposit in said account,
since May 1, 1949, the Deutsche mark equi-
valent of the indicated dollar cost to the United
States and Sterling cost tu the United Kingdom
of such assistance,

C. The Military Governors have, from time
to time, used amounts credited to the proceeds
of GARIOA import sub-account for the purpose
of rendering vital assistance to the economy
of the occupied areas, and the French occupied
area of Germany. The Military Governors also
from time to time used amounts so credited to
the proceeds of GARIOA imports sub-account
in the making of loans to the Reconstruction
Lean Corporation for the purpose of enabling
said corporation to finance projects of benefit
to the economy of the occupied areas.

D. The Military Governors further, from time
to time, made agreements to apply amounts
so credited or to be credited to the proceeds
of GARIOA imports sub-account to the financ-
ing of other projects of benefit to the economy
of the occupied areas, and the French occupied
area of Germany, and have caused payments
in respect of such agreements to be made and
to be debited against the proceeds of GARIOA
imports sub-account. In order fully to carry out
such agreements it will be necessary that
further amounts be made available from time
to time for such purposes.

E. The High Commissioners have succeeded
to the rights and obligations of the Military
Governors in respect of the proceeds of
GARIOA import sub-account and the agreements
and loans referred to in paragraphs C and D
above.

F, The Federal Republic of Germany has
concluded with the Government of the United
States of America an Economic Cooperation
Agreement of even date herewith, (hereinafter
sometimes called the Bilateral Agreement of
1949). Under Article V of said Agreement the
Federal Republic of Germany is required to
establish with the Bank Deutscher Laender a
special account (hereinafter sometimes called
the GARIOA special account) in the name of
said republic and to deposit in said account:

a, any balance at the close of business on
the effective date of this Agreement in the
special account in the Bank Deutscher Laender
entitled “Proceeds of GARIOA Imports Sub-
Account of Military Governors for Germany
(US/UK) Proceeds from Deferred Payments Im-
port Account."

b. all amounts due for deposit as of the
effective date of said Agreement, or which may
become due after such date, in fulfillment of the
obligations assumed by the Government of the
Federal Republic under Article 133 of the Basic
Law of the Federal Republic, insofar as such
obligations are related to arrangements for the
provision of assistance by the Government of
the United States to Germany authorized under

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
applicable provisions of Appropriation Acts for
the Government and Relief of Occupied Areas;
and

¢. amounts in Deutsche marks commensurate
with the indicated dollar cost to the Guvern-
ment of the United States of commodities and
services (including any costs 6f processing,
storing, transporting, repairing, or other ser-
vices incident thereto) made available after the
effective date of the Agreement to the Federal
Republic under the authority of applicable
provisions of appropriation acts of the United
States Congress for the Government and Relief
of Occupied Areas.

G, In order to enable the Federal Republic of
Germany to carry out the purpose of the Bilat-
eral Agreement of 1949, the Federal Republic
has requested the High Commissioners to trans-
fer to the Federal Republic the right, title and
interest of the High Commissioners in respect
of the proceeds of GARIOA imports sub-account
and in respect of the loans or other assistance
referred to in paragraphs .C and D above, and
of any proceeds of sale of GARIOA Assistance
heretofore furnished to the Military Governors
or the High Commissioners, (for the benetit) of
the Occupied Areas, or of the French Zone of
Occupation of Germany, which have heretofore
been collected but have not yet been deposited
in the proceeds of GARIOA imports sub-account
or which shall hereafter be collected for the
account of the High Commissioners.

H. The High Commissioners are willing to
make such transfer on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth,

Now, therefore, for and in consideration of
the mutual undertakings hereinafter set forth,
the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1. The High Commissioners hereby assign,
transfer and set over to the Federal Republic
of Germany all right, title and interest of the
High Commissioners in and to:

a, any credit balance existing as of the
effective date of this agreement in the proceeds
of GARIOA imports sub-account;

b. any and all proceeds of sale of GARIOA
assistance heretofore furnished to the Military
Governors or the High Commissioners, (for the
benefit) of the Occupied Areas, or of the
French Zone of Occupation, which have hereto-
fore been collected but have not yet been
credited to the proceeds of GARIOA imports
sub-account or which shall hereafter be col-
lected for the account of the High Commis-
sioners; and

c, any and all obligations which are at the
date hereof payable or which shall hereafter
become payable to the High Commissioners in
respect of any and all loans or other assistance
heretofore rendered by the Military Governors
or the High Commissioners within the occupied
areas and the French occupied area out of the
proceeds of GARIOA imports sub-account, and
any and all bonds, noted or other instruments
evidencing such loans or other assistance.

2. The Federal Republic of Germany agrees:

a. to pay into the proceeds of GARIOA im-
ports sub-account all amounts owing to said
account which have heretofore been an obli-
gation of the Bizonal Economic Administration
or the Federal Republic under notifications or
regulations of the US/UK Military Governors
or High Commissioners;

b. to make payment on behalf of the High
Commissioners of any and all amounts in
Deutsche marks which are at the date hereof
payable or which shall hereafter become
payable under any agreement existing at the
date hereof of the Military Governors or of the
High Commissioners to finance or assist in the
financing of any projects in the Occupied
Areas, and the French Occupied Area of Ger-
many; and

c. to assume all other obligations of and full
responsibility for all claims against the Mili-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

tary Governors or High Commissioners which
may now exist or hereafter arise in connection
with the furnishing of GARIOA assistance or,
expenditures from the proceeds of GARIOA
imports sub-account, and to indemnify and save
harmless the High Commissioners from and
against any and all claims and liabilities im
respect of the proceeds of GARIOA imports.

United States High Commissioner
for Germany
December 15, 1949.
His Exeliency,
The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of
Germany,
Museum Koenig,
Coblenzstrasse,
Bonn, Germany.

Mr, Chancellor:

I have the honor to refer to the conversations
which have recently taken place between repre}
sentatives of our two governments relating to
the obligations arising from the exercise of
drawing rights made available to the Federal
Republic of Germany pursuant to the agree-
ments for intra-European payments and com-
pensations of October 16, 1948 and September 7,
1949, insofar as such drawing rights are attri-
butable to United States dollar assistance fur-
nished by the Economic Cooperation Adminis-
tration to participating countries for the pur-
poses of that agreement,

1, To the extent that the agent authorized to
perform payments compensations pursuant to
the agreement for intra-European payments and
compensation utilizes drawing rights established
in favor of the Federal Republic of Germany,
the Government of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many will deposit commensurate amounts of
Deutsche marks in the special local currency.
account established under Article IV of the
Ecconomic Cooperation Agreement between the
Federal Republic of Germany and the United
States. The Government of the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany will also deposit in said
account all amounts in Deutsche marks due for
deposit as a result of the exercise of drawing
rights prior to this date in the French Zone
of Occupation in Germany, and all amounts of
Deutsche marks due for deposit or heretofore
deposited by the United States/United Kingdom
Military Governors in accordance with an
exchange of letters between the United States/
United Kingdom Military Governors and the
acting United States Political Adviser for Ger-
many on April 28 and May 10, 1948,

2. The amounts to be deposited shall be equi-
valent to the United States dollar value of
drawing rights made available by participating
countries and exercised in favor of the Federal
Republic of Germany as communicated to the
Economic Cooperation Administration by the
agent, This value will be identical with the
amounts of United States dollars allotted to
such participating countries in order to obli-
gate them to make such drawing rights
available.

3. The conversion rate governing the com-
putation of amounts of local currency deemed
equivalent to the dollar value of drawing rights
as set forth in paragraph 2 above shall be the
same as that governing deposits made in accord-
ance with Article IV of the Economic Coop-
eration Agreement between the Federal Re-
public of Germany and the United States.

4. Deposits of local currency made pursuant
to this exchange of notes shall be held and
governed in accordance with all the terms and
conditions applicable to deposits made pursu-
ant to Article IV of the Economic Cooperation
Agreement between the United States and the
Federal. Republic of Germany.

52

5. It is understood that obligations to deposit
local currency in accordance with this note
apply only in the case of drawing rights to
which no obligations of repayment attach,

It would be appreciated if you would confirm
the above understandings at your earliest con-
venience.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assur-
ance of my highest consideration.

Very truly yours,
John J. McCloy
US High Commissioner for Germany,

Office of the United States
High Commissioner for Germany and
Special Representative of the
Economic Cooperation Administration
for Germany

December 15, 1949.

His Excellency,

The Chancellor of the
Federal Republic of Germany,
Museum Koenig,
Coblenzstrasse,

Bonn, Germany.

Mr. Chancellor:

I have the honor to confirm by this letter
certain statements made by the representatives
of the United States Government during the
course of the negotiation of the Economic Co
operation Agreement signed today.

The representatives of the United States
Government have stated that, while the United
States retains a lien on the proceeds of all
German exports as provided in Paragraph 3 of
Article I, the United States Government will
consider German ability to pay and other re-
levant factors when settlement of the claims
therein referred to, and of similar claims pro-
vided for in Article XII, is requested.

In connection with the subject of claims
against Germany in general, I should also like
to confirm the statement made that the only
claims covered by the agreement are claims
arising through the furnishing of ECA and
GARIOA assistance by the United States to
Germany after the effective date of the Agree-
ment, and through the furnishing of ECA aid
under the provisions of the Economic Cooper-
ation Agreements signed on behalf of their
zones of Germany in April 1948 by the United
States/United Kingdom and French Military
Governors respectively. The claims of the Unit-
ed States against Germany arising through the
furnishing of past GARIOA aid, and other
claims, are not covered by this agreement. It
is understood however, that their exclusion
from this agreement in no way effects their
validity, and that they will be asserted by the
United States at the appropriate time on a
similar basis with the claims acknowledged by
the Federal Republic in signing this agreement.

With reference to Paragraph 3 of Article V,
the Government of the United States intends
to provide the Government of the Federal Re-
public from time to time with an estimate, if
possible on an annual basis, of the total ex-
penditures for which it may request that funds
be made available out of the GARIOA Special
Account under the provisions of that paragraph.

The Government of the United States will in-
form the Government of the Federal Republic
of the general purposes for which funds with-
drawn from the account under Paragraph 3 of
Article V have been expended, At the time of
the final settlement envisaged in Paragraph 3
of Article I, the Government of the United
States will, of course, provide more detailed
information with regard to expenditures re-
specting which it then determines to maintain
a claim against Germany.

Your delegation has asked if assurances can
be made on behalf of my government to the

FEBRUARY 1950"

--- Page 56 ---
effect that in carrying out the provisions of
Paragraph 2(d) of Article IV, the United States
does not intend to apply the current official
conversion rate retroactively prior to the
October ist cut-off date, and that it is the
further intent of ECA that in this, as in all
other respects possible, the Federal Republic
of Germany will be treated similarly to all
other participating countries of ERP. I am
pleased to make these assurances,

Your delegation has raised the question
whether it is to be expected that there might
be an increase in the obligations to be as-
sumed pursuant to Article XII, over and above
an amount of DM 700,000,000, and in case this
sum should be exceeded, whether the de-
blocking of counterpart funds for the benefit
of the German economy would be suspended.
I can assure you that it is not expected that
the sum of DM 700,000,000 will be exceeded.
If. contrary to expectations, it will be exceed-
ed, I can assure you that there will be no
suspension of the de-blocking of counterpart
funds for the benefit of the German economy
and, further, that I will assist the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany in finding
a solution to the situation.

I shall also use my best efforts with the
Allied High Commission to obtain favorable
consideration of a request by the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany to raise
the limit on advances from the Bank Deutscher
Laender to the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany,

I can inform you that, on December 1, 1949,
the Allied Banking Commission has been in-
structed that no further charge is to be made
against the GARIOA account as a result of
operations by JEIA. The process of liquidating
JEIA will be a separate financial operation.

In order to establish the precise amount of
the obligations taken over by the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany under
Article XII, I agree that it would be desirable
to institute the audits authorized by BICO/
SEC(49)496 of 14 September 1949,

Ihope this letter answers any question which
you or your delegation may have had in re-
spect to the above matters.

Very truly yours,
John J. McCloy,
Special Representative for Germany.

Official Communiques

Dec. 8 Meeting of HICOM

The ninth meeting of the council of the Allied
Commission was held Dec, 8 at the Petersberg,
near Bonn. Present were Mr, Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner (chairman),
Mr. John J, McCloy, United States High Com-
missioner, and Sir Brian Robertson, United
Kingdom High Commissioner,

The Council took action to facilitate the
federal government's financial aid to Berlin.
It was agreed to amend two articles in Mili-
tary Government finance laws which have
hitherto created technical difficulties in the
Provision of financial aid (see “Laws and Ordi-
nances"’),

An addition is to be made to Article 28 of
Military Government Law 63 (the conversion
lew) which will permit public agencies to borrow
Money and issue loans in suitable cases for
Productive purposes if amortization and pay-
ment of interest are provided from the ordinary
budget, This will enable the federal and state
governments to make expenditures for produc-
tive purposes through loans whose interest and
Tepayment will be covered in their budgets, As
an immediate measure, it is envisaged that the
federal government will issue federal treasury
bills over the next five months to the amount
necessary to meet that part of the Berlin

FEBRUARY 1950

budget’s deficit which is not already covered
by provision from state budgets.

Further, Article 3 of the law establishing the
Bank Deutscher Laender (Military Government
Law No. 60, Ordinance No. 129) isto be modified
to enable the Bank Deutscher Laender to ad-
vance money to the Berlin Central Bank against,
among other things, equalization claims of the
Berlin city administration,

(Note on equalization claims: when currency
reform took place the accounts of banks and
other financial institutions were balanced, as
a technical banking procedure, by the creation
of credit in the form of three percent bonds
without maturity date enabling the financial
institutions to make subsequent claims against
state governments and, in the case of Berlin,
against the Berlin Magistrat [City Council], It
is to meet these “equalization claims" that the
Berlin Central Bank needs advances from the
Bank Deutscher Laender.)

Texts of the necessary amendments to the
Military Government legislation are now in
preparation and will be promulgated shortly.

The council also agreed that, beginning with
the financial year 1950/51, there would be a
uniform system for the definition, presentation
and accounting of occupation costs and manda-
tory expenditures in all three zones,

Dec. 16 Meeting of HICOM

The tenth meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Dec, 16 at
the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Commis-
sioner (chairman), Mr, John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner, and Sir Brian Rob-
ertson, United Kingdom High Commissioner.

The Council:

(I) Agreed that the commander-in-chief in
each of the western zones acting under the
authority of his High Commissioner, should de-
termine the future status of the military mis-
sions accredited to the commanders-in-chief
and representing foreign governments which
have not indicated their intention to accredit
a mission to the High Commission. It was
agreed that in cases where a mission would be
asked to terminate its activities the High Com-
missioners of the other zones would be in-
formed,

(I) Agreed to the setting up of a sub-
committee of the Foreign Trade and Exchange
Committee of the Allied High Commission, for
the purpose of dealing with matters of customs
and tariffs.

(III) Decided to disapprove a law passed by
the State Government of Bremen, in March
1949, on the subject of re-establishment of con-
sumers’ cooperative societies on the grounds
that the law was inconsistent with a decision
of the Occupation Authorities in that it pur-
ported to amend a law on the same subject
which had already been annulled by US Mili-
tary Government.

(IV) Approved and signed a law on the
elimination of German militarism and Nazism
(see ‘Laws and Ordinances").

(V) Approved and signed a law for the
control of patent applications in the fields of
prohibited or controlled research or manu-
facture (see ‘Laws and Ordinances"’),

(VI) Noted that the functions of the Joint
Export-Import Agency (JEIA) had been taken
over by the federal government on Nov. 28,
agreed that all claims against JEIA’ should be
filed within a period of nine months from the
date JEIA was put into liquidation (Dec. 19,
1949) and that claims’ not filed within such
period should be barred,

(VII) Decided to disapprove provisionally an
act for the regulation of handicrafts, enacted

53

by the diet of the state of Baden on Sept. 21,
1949, to permit study by experts as to the
effect of such a law on freedom of trade, and
the individual's right to pursue an occupation;
the law will be discussed again by the Council
on Jan. 12, 1950.

(VIII) Signed a law on amendments to bank-
ing and currency reform legislation, to take
effect from Dec, 15, 1949. The main purposes of
these amendments are to facilitate federal aid
to Berlin and to modify Allied banking and
currency reform legislation to take account of
the new responsibilities of the federal govern-
ment arising out of the bilateral agreement.

Jan. 5 Meeting of HICOM

The eleventh meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Jan, 5 at
the Petersberg, near Bonn, Present were Sir
Brian Robertson, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman), Mr. John McCloy, United
States High Commissioner and Mr, Andre
Frangois-Poncet, French High Commissioner.

The Council:

1, Confirmed its approval of the European
Cooperation Administration (ECA) agreement
between the Federal Government and the
United States and noted that this would be
considered as taking effect provisionally from
Dec, 29, 1949, until notification to the United
States representative, on or before Jan. 31,
1950, of ratification of the agreement by the
German Federal Bundesrat (Council) and Bun-
destag (Assembly).

2. Approved the schedules for German coal
prices for the first quarter of 1950 which have
been proposed by the German authorities and
have been under discussion with a working
party of the Allied High Commission, and
which provide for an overall reduction in the
differeatials between internal and export prices.

3. Took note of a request from the federal
chancellor that the Fischer Tropsch plants
(Krupp's Treibstoffwerke, Wanne-Eickel and
Gewerkschaft Viktor, Castrop-Rauxel), which
have ceased to work as a result of the inter-
governmental agreement on prohibited and
limited industries, should be allowed to remain
in operation for conversion to a proposed new
process for the production of basic products
for the chemical industry and involving the
production of only a low proportion of syn-
thetic gasoline. The Council decided to discuss
this subject with the chancellor,

4, In accordance with its policy of furthering
the progressive participation of Germany in
international bodies, agreed that the Federal
Republic should participate as observers at

‘certain conferences of the International Labor

Organization and agreed to invite the Federal
Government to communicate with the Inter-
national Labor Organization in connection
with forthcoming conference,

5, Accepted a notification from the Nether-
lands government of the establishment of the
Netherlands Indonesian Union to effectuate
cooperation between the Kingdom of the
Netherlands and the Republic of the United
States of Indonesia, and decided to inform the
German Federal Government accordingly.

6. Decided to hold a meeting in Berlin on
Wednesday, Jan. 18,

Jan, 12 Meeting of HICOM

The twelfth meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Jan. 12 at
the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were Mr.
C. E. Steel, United Kingdom deputy high com-
missioner (chairman), acting for Sir Brian Rob-
ertson; Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, United
States deputy high commissioner, acting for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
Mr. John J. McCloy, and Mr. Andre Frangois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner.

The Council:

1. Reconsidered the act for the regulation
of handicrafts which had been enacted by the
diet of the state of Baden on Sept. 21, 1949,
and which was disapproved provisionally by
the Council on Dec, 16, 1949, to permit study
by experts as to the effect of such a law on
freedom of trade and the individual's right to
pursue an occupation. It decided that the pro-
visional disapproval should be maintained in
force for the time being, pending the com-
pletion of a detailed study of its constitutional
and economic aspects, at which time it will be
reconsidered, An examination is to be made
of the existing organization and regulation of
handicrafts trades in the three zones.

2. Discussed general principles for a common
policy to permit Germans to use sporting
firearms in the three zones of western Ger-
many. Legal experts were instructed to prepare
appropriate legislation to this end.

3, Approved a second amendment to Law
No. 1—Official Gazette of the Allied High
Commission—to provide that legislation enacted
prior to the date of Law I (Sept, 21, 1949) would
have legal effect even if published after that
date in Military Government gazettes (see
“Laws and Ordinances’).

4. Took note of a request from the federal
chancellor suggesting negotiations with the
Royal Netherlands government concerning
Netherlands claims for the return of river craft.
As a first step in the settlement of this matter
the Council decided to approach the Nether-
Jands government.

5, Decided, in accordance with the spirit of
the provisions of the Occupation Statute, to
transfer to the German authorities responsibility
for the regulation of political parties, asso-
ciations, meetings and public processions. It
directed legal experts to draft a law to put
this decision into effect, The law will come
into force three months after its promulgation,
in order to give the German authorities an
opportunity to produce such regulations as
they might consider necessary on this subject.
In the meantime Allied authorities will use
their powers under the existing legislation
only sparingly and in exceptional circumstances.

——————

Amnesty Law Agreement

An exchange of views concerning the inter-
pretation and application of certain provisions
of the Amnesty Law of Dec. 9, 1949 took place
between representatives of the federal gov-
ernment and of the Allied High Commission.
During the course of correspondence between
the chairman of the Allied High Commission
and the federal chancellor of Dec, 29 and 30
respectively, agreement was reached on the
following points:

a) That the Amnesty Law does not apply
to penalties imposed by courts of the Occu-
pation Authorities.

b) That Article 9 of the law is limited in
operation by Article 1 of the law and that it
shall apply only to punishable acts committed
after May 8, 1945 and before Sept. 15, 1949.

c) That the provisions of Article 9 shall not
extend amnesty to perpetrators of acts which
were directed against the free democratic
public order.

d) That the federal minister of justice will
contact the ministers of justice of the states
in order to establish certain rules as to inter-
pretation and application which will make it
possible that a uniform procedure may be
worked out to be observed by the public pro-
secutors in applying the law and which will
serve as a guide to the courts as to the aims
of the legislature,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Under these circumstances the Allied High
Commission has decided not to disapprove the
Jaw. The federal government has made arrange-
ments for the law to come into force on
Dec. 31, 1949.

Meeting with Chancellor

The three Allied High Commissioners met
Dec. 16 at the Petersberg, near Bonn, with the
chancellor of the German Federal Republic for
another in their series of informal discussions.

Questions of procedure in connection with
the Federal Republic's accession to the Inter-
national Authority for the Ruhr, as well as the
nomination of a German delegate to this
authority, were further discussed. Complete
agreement was reached and the letters per-
taining to the accession will be published by
the chancellor,

The procedure for tripartite liaison and com-
munications between the different levels of
the High Commission and those of the German
federal government was clarified and agreed
upon.

An offer by the Danish government to pro-
vide trains and food for the transfer of
refugees from Schleswig-Holstein to other
parts of Germany was communicated to the
chancellor.

The High Commissioners and the federal
chancellor discussed some problems arising
from the implementation of the Petersberg
agreement in its application to certain cases
of dismantling, These, problems concern mat-
ters of detail which lie within the competence
of the High Commissioners.

The High Commissioners discussed with the
chancellor measures required to facilitate estab-
lishment of the Military Security Board in
Coblenz.

Laws and Ordinances

Law on Elimination
of Militarism and Nazism
Whereas it is desirable to codify the legis-
lation intended to eliminate Militarism and
Nazism the Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Article 1

The following are prohibited:

(a) Any activity which teaches, directly or
indirectly, the theory, principles or technique
of war or is intended to prepare for any
warlike activity or to foster the resurgence
of militarism,

(b) Unless expressly authorized by the Allied
High Commission, the manufacture, sale, dis-
tribution, possession or use of any article or
device with the intention of facilitating any
of the activities prohibited in paragraph (a)
hereof, or with the knowledge that such
article or device is intended to be used to
facilitate any such activity.

(c) All organizations of the kind designated
below:

(1) Military organizations,

(2) Para-military organizations,

(3) Organizations which require any of their
members to be war veterans,

(4) National Socialist organizations. -

Article 2

1, The following legislation is hereby de-
prived of effect in the territory of the Federal
Republic:

Control Council Law No. 2, “providing for
the termination and liquidation of the Nazi
organizations."'

Articles I, II, III, V, VI, VI, VII and IX
of Control Council Law No. 8 “Elimination
and prohibition of military training."

54

Control Council Law No, 34, ‘‘Dissolution of
the Wehrmacht.’

"Control Council Law No, 58, ‘Supplement to
appendix to Control Council Law No. 2, pro-
viding for the termination and liquidation of
Nazi organizations.’*

Control Council Order No, 4, ‘‘Confiscation
of literature and material of a Nazi and mili-
tarist nature.'’

2. The following legislation is hereby repealed:

SHAEF Law No. 7, ‘‘Removal from official
seals of National Socialist emblems."

United States Military Government Law
No, 153, "German Courts Martial.’’

Paragraphs 1 (a), 1 (b), 1 (a), 1 (e), 1 (®)
1 (g), 1 (h), 2, 3, 4 and $ of United States
Military Government Law No. 154, ‘Elimination
and prohibition of military training.’

Article II, British Military Government
Ordinance No. 8, “Regulation of public dis-
cussion and other public activities.’

3. Nothing in this article shall affect the
consequences of any action taken under, or
any right created by or under, any of the
legislation deprived of force or repealed by
this law.

Article 3

Any violation of the provisions of this law
shall be punishable by any term of imprison-
ment, including imprisonment for life, or a
fine not exceeding DM 100,000 or by both such
imprisonment and fine.

Law on
Control of Patent Applications
in Certain Fields
of Research and Manufacture

The Council of the Allied High Commission
enacts as follows:

Article 1

The president of the German Patent Office,
or such official as he may designate, shall
on Feb, 1, 1950 submit to the Military Secur-
ity Boards abstracts (Auszuege) in triplicate
of alll patent applications (other than those
referred to in sub-paragraphs a, b, and c of
article 3) examined as to form before that
date by the German Patent Office which
concern research,

(a) In any field primarily of a military
nature.

(b) In any field specified in schedules a
and b of British MG Law No. 23, United
States MG Law No. 23 and French Military
Government Ordinance No. 231.

(c) In such fields of prohibited or limited
industries as may be specified by the Allied
High Commission.

Article 2

The president of the German Patent Office,
or such official as he may designate, shall
as from Feb. 15, 1950 submit bimonthly to
the Military Security Board abstracts (Aus-
zuege) in triplicate of all patent applications
(other than those referred to in sub-paragraphs
a, b, and c of Article 3) which concern fields
specified in article 1, examined as to form
during the period of 15 days prior to the
date each transmission.

Article 3

The president of the German Patent Office,
or such official as he may designate, shall
as from April 1, 1950 submit bimonthly to
the Military Security Board non-cumulative
lists in triplicate of the following:

(a) Patents granted by the German Patent
Office on applications concerning the matters
referred to in Article 1, which were pending
in the former Reichspatentamt (German Patent

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 58 ---
Cffice) on May 8, 1945, and have been rein-
stated under existing law.

(b) Applications or patents reinstated by
the German Patent Office which were clas-
sified as ‘'secret’’ (geheim) by the former
Reichspatentamt.

(c) Applications concerning matters referred
to in Article 1 filed with the German Patent
Office which have been subsequently with-
drawn or have lapsed prior to examination
as to form.

(d) Final decisions taken by the German
Patent Office with tespect to applications
referred to in Articles 1 and 2.

Article 4

The abstracts (Auszuege) referred to in
Articles 1 and 2 shall specify the dates,
reference numbers, classifications and titles
of applications, the names and addresses of
the applicants, and, if available, the identify-
ing numbers and dates of any research and
production permits or notifications of research
in the fields to which the applications relate.

The lists referred to in Article 3 shall include
the dates, reference numbers, classifications
and titles of the applications or patents con-
cerned and the names and addresses of the
applicants or owners.

Article §

The Military Security Board may check pa-
tent applications periodically and without
advance notice in order to determine whether
the German patent authorities are carrying out
their obligations under this law.

Article 6

If the publication of any patent application
or any summary or abstract thereof would, in
the opinion of the Military Security Board, be
a serious threat to security, the president of
the German Patent Office shall, either of his
own notion or if so directed by the said board,
withhold any publication of such application,
summary or abstract, but the rights of the
applicant in any invention covered thereby
shall be protected in accordance with German
law and such regulations as shall be issued
hereunder,

Article 7

The German Patent Office shall regularly
supply to the Military Security Board three
copies of the official patent journal, of the
printed specifications of any patent granted in
respect of the matters specified in Article 1,
and any other publications issued by the Ger-
man Patent Office which the Military Security
Board may request,

Article 8

Except otherwise provided in this law or in
any regulations issued hereunder, all applica-
tions, reports and other data concerning any
of the fields specified in or in accordance
with Article 1 of this law shall be kept secret
by all those, having knowledae thereof, in-
cluding the occupation authorities, and may
be used only for control purposes,

Law on Amendments to Banking
and Currency Reform Legislation

The Council of the Allied High Commission

enacts as follows:
Article 1

1, Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) of paragraph
13 (d) of Article 3 of French Military Govern-
ment Ordinance No, 203, or United States
Military Government Law No. 60 (Revised),
and of British Military Government Ordinance
No, 129 (amended) are hereby amended to
Tead as follows:—

“@) Treasury bills, securities and registered
debt (Schuldbuchforderungen) issued by the

FEBRUARY 1950

Federal Republic of Germany, by the Bizonal
Economic Administration, by any state within
the area of competence of the member Land
Central Banks or by the Territorial Legal Entity
(Gebietskoerperschaft), of Greater Berlin within
the area of competence of the Berlin Zentral-
bank.

(3) Fixed-interest-bearing securities and
registered debt (Schuldbuchforderungen) on
which any member Land Central Bank or the
Berlin Zentralbank has made advances or
which it has acquired on the open market."

2, Paragraph 14 of Article 3 of the legis-
lation specified in paragraph 1 of this article
is hereby amended to read as follows:—

“14, The Bank may:

(a) Serve as fiscal agent, without charge,
for the government of the Federal Republic
of Germany, including acceptance of deposits,
purchase and sale of treasury bills, fixed-
interest-bearing securities and registered debt
(Schuldbuchforderungen) and provision of pay-
ment facilities and facilities for the safekeeping
and custody of valuables and securities.

(b) Purchase and sell, in the open market,
treasury bills issued by the Federal Republic
of Germany or by the former Bizonal Economic
Administration,

(c) Purchase and sell in the open market,
fixed-interest-bearing securities and registered
debt (Schuldbuchforderungen) of the Federal
Republic of Germany or the former Bizonal
Economic Administration,

(4) Grant to the Federal Republic of Ger-
many advances and short-term credits. Ad-
vances, short-term credits and treasury bills
of the federal government which the Bank
Deutscher Laender has purchased for its own
account or for which the Bank has given a
discount promise, shall not in the aggregate
(including past advances to the former Bizonal
Economic Administration) exceed the amount
of 1,000,000,000 Deutsche marks, unless the
board of directors, by a decision of at least
three-quarters of its members raises this limit
to 1,500,000,000 Deutsche marks."

3 Sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 15 of
Article II of the legislation specified in
paragraph 1 of this Article is hereby amended
to read as follows:—

“(b) Subject to existing legislation, the bank
may maintain accounts with foreign banks and
may, for its own account or the account of
others, acquire and dispose of foreign exchange
(defined as means of payment and bills of
exchange expressed in foreign currencies, prime
bankers acceptances and treasury bills and
balances with foreign banks), gold, silver and
platinum. And the bank may, for its own
account or the account of others, engage in
transactions in foreign exchange, gold, silver
and platinum, including the right to borrow
and pledge the aforementioned valuables and
to enter into forward foreign exchange con-
tracts."*

Article 2
Article XXVIII (Section XXVIII) of French
Military Government Ordinance No. 160 and
of United States and British Military Govern-
ment Laws No, 63 (Conversion Law) is hereby
amended to read as follows:—

“Article XXVIII
“Prohibition of Budgetary Deficits

“() Expenditure of public authorities must
be covered by current income. The procure-
ment of funds by ‘means of credits shall be
lawful only in anticipation of future revenues.

““(II) Notwithstanding the provisions of para-
graph (I) above, any public authority may bor-
row money and issue bonds in suitable cases
for productive purposes, if the amortization
and payment of interest are provided for from
funds of the ordinary budget.

55

“(IIl) The Allied High Commission reserves
the right to intervene if the maintenance of
those principles is imperiled.”

Article 3

The German text of this law shall be the
official text.

Article 4

This law shall become effective on Dec, 15,
1949.

Amendment No, 2
to HICOM Law No. 1

The Council of the Allied High Commission
enacts as follows:

Article 1

The last sentence of Article 8-a, added to
Law No. 1 by Law No. 11, is hereby amended
to read as follows:—

“Notwithstanding the repeals herein con-
tained the publication, whether before or after
the effective date of this law, in any Military
Government or Control Commission or other
official gazette, of any legislation enacted
before that date shall have the legal effect
which it would have had if the legislation
herein repealed were still in force."

Article 2

This Law shall be deemed to be effective as
of Sept. 21, 1949.

Official Announcements

Life Insurance Program

. A new life insurance program, provided by
the War Agencies Employees Protective Asso-
ciation and paying up to $21,000 in case of
death, is now available to all US employees
of the Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany.

Two categories of policies are offered:
Employees earning less than $3,200 per year
may subscribe to a policy paying $5,500 in
case of death, plus an additional $5,000 for
accidental death making a total of $10,500.
The premium is $6.25 monthly or $75 yearly,
payable in monthly quarterly or annual in-
stallments.

Employees earning $3,200 and over are
offered a policy paying $11,000 in case of
death, plus an accidental death benefit of
$10,000, making a total of $21,000, Premiums
are $12.50 monthly or $150 yearly, payable in
monthly, quarterly or annual installments. All
applicants are required to pay $2 for mem-
bership fee in the association.

The employee is covered from the moment
he signs his application form and has it
countersigned by his HICOG personnel officer.
No medical examination is required.

The War Agencies Employees Protective
Association is a non-profit organization formed
during the war to aid US government civilian
employees serving outside the country, HICOG
employees may continue their policies with
the association as long as they are in federal
service, either abroad or on return to the
United States. They can convert the policy to
ordinary insurance on leaving government
service.

Full information and application forms are
available in the Personnel Division, HICOG
headquarters, Room 452, Frankfurt, and in the
administrative offices of the HICOG state
commissions.

Personal Purchases Program
The State Department Foreign Service ‘Per.
sonal Purchases Program’ has been opened
to US employees of the Office of the US
High Commissioner for Germany, allowing
them to order necessary supplies and com-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
modities from US firms with discounts rang-
ing from 10 to 40 percent,

The program, which is designed to’ serve
US Foreign Service personnel all over the
world, permits the purchase of a wide variety
of items including food, household equipment,
clothing and automobiles. Some purchases are
made by mail directly with the manufacturer
or wholesaler concerned, while others must
be arranged through the State Department's
Welfare Unit.

State Department catalogues, describing the
items available, prices and the methods of
ordering, have been requested from Washing-
ton and will be made available at all HICOG
personnel offices in Germany in the near
future.—from ER&S announcement,

Foreign Post Differential

Beginning with the Jan, 8—22 pay period,
no HICOG employee in the category of
“local staff personnel" will be paid the for-
eign post differential, Local staff employees
are those US personnel who are not ade-
quately representative of the United States
for the purposes of the foreign service by
virtue of long-term disassociation with Ameri-
can customs, thought and institutions or
are resident at a post primarily for reasons
other than their employment in the Foreign
Service. The following are examples of local
staff personnel:

a. Wives of nationals of a foreign country.

b. Wives of American employees of private
industry or government who because of
their husbands’ business might reasonable be
expected to remain at the post in question and
to sever employment with the Foreign Service
upon transfer of their husbands, or who would
be available for transfer only to posts in an
area to which their husbands are transfered.

c. American citizens who have spent almost
their entire lives outside the United States,
have been educated in foreign schools, and
have maintained few, if any, ties with the
United States and whose attitude, speech and
manner as a consequence are not, for the
purpose of the Foreign Service, representative
of the United States.

HICOG personnel falling in the category of
“local staff personnel" will be notified by the
Personnel Division as soon as a determination
is made.—from HICOG Daily Bulletin.

Southwest State Report

There have been recent German press
reports in which it is alleged that the French
High Commissioner has officially made known
his intention of opposing the formation of a
southwest state.

The High Commissioners wish it to be
known that “there is no justification for any
statement to the effect that they have declar-
ed their attitude towards this question of
the southwest state,’ either jointly or individ-
ually, Any proposal concerning the creation
of such a state would require their approval,
a fact which they have drawn to the federal
chancellor's attention.—from HICOM announ-
cement.

German Employees

The responsibility for the personnel admini-
stration of all German employees of the Office
of the US High Commissioner for Germany
will be transfered from European Command to
HICOG effective March 1.

The administration of individual employee
relations, services, placement and records of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German personnel at HICOG headquarters will
be taken over by the Personnel Division from
Frankfurt Military Post, while the state com-
mission administrative offices will assume ad-
ministration of their German employees under
technical guidance of the HICOG Personnel
Division from the local military posts.

Pay and leave administration of German
personnel will continue to be handled by the
military posts until this function also is taken
over by HICOG between March 1 and June 1.

Preparatory to the transfer of responsibility,
German personnel must submit new job appli-
cations for employment with HICOG, and
those who have not recently or satisfactorily
passed qualification tests for linguistic, typing,
stenographic and certain other types of posi-
tions may be required to do so, Physical
examination will also be required of those who
have not had such an examination within the
past year.

The total number of German personnel
employed by HICOG will remain approximately
the same, although there will be minor adjust-
ments in the personnel strength of HICOG
headquarters in Frankfurt and the state com-
missions.

In preparing to take over German personnel
administration, the Personnel Division announced
that it was HICOG's policy to insure that
every German employee is treated fairly
irrespective of sex or creed; that German
employees are assigned to jobs for which they
are best fitted and are given opportunities for
advancement; that they are compensated
equitably and given adequate recognition for
superior service; that safe and healthy working
conditions are provided; that they be fully in-
formed of policies affecting their work and
that they have ample opportunity to express
themselves towards improving work methods
and conditions or to prevent grievances. —
from HICOG announcement,

Personal Data Sheet

Reference is made to question 21 on the
Personal Data Sheet in connection with reli¢
gious faith. An answer to this question is
not obligatory, However, the purpose in asking
question 21 is to facilitate the procurement
of religious attention or benefits in the case
of accident or death, In the event of death,
for example, it is often essential, should an
autopsy be required, to ascertain religious
affiliation.—from HICOG Daily Bulletin.

Dealings in Foreign Exchange

The attention of all HICOG personnel is in-
vited to FS Serial No. 276 and FS Serial
No, 467 dealing with restrictions upon dealings
in foreign exchange. A copy of the serials
may be perused in the ER & S Branch, Partic-
ular attention is directed to the fact that US
Treasury Department salary checks may be
cashed at authorized banking establishments,
Decisive disciplinary measures, including dis-
missal, will be taken in the cases of persons
found to be engaging in independent exchange
transactions of an unauthorized and unreported
character.—from HICOG Daily Bulletin.

Restitution of Property

The Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany issued Dec. 19:a statement to
correct possible misunderstanding, based on
publicity appearing in the German press
concerning the attitude of the American author-
ities toward the law for restitution of identifi-
able property within Germany to Nazi victims.

56

It is the firm policy of the US government
to carry out fully its program to insure, to
the largest extent possible, the speedy re-
stitution of identifiable property to persons
who were wrongfully deprived of such pro-
perty between 1933 and 1945 for reasons of
race, religion, nationality, ideology or politi
cal opposition to National Socialism.

It is the intention of the US authorities to
insure and protect the rights given Nazi victims
under Military Government Law No. 59, and
it is emphasized that no changes in the
restitution legislation would be considered
which might materially and adversely affect
those rights,

Although the magnitude of the task of
effecting restitution has necessitated the
establishment of legislative and administrative
procedures and organization since the inception
of the Restitution Law, the framework has
now been completed, and in fact, restitution
has in many cases already been made, and
the program is steadily going forward—from
HICOG press release.

Flying of German Flag

Units of the US occupation forces are
authorized to fly the flag of the German
Federal Republic or appropriate local (state or
city) flags together with US and Allied flags,
in accordance with established rules of proce-
dure on appropriate occasions such as GYA
or other sports where invited German guests
are present or the German public is admitted.
Such flags are not available for issue, but
must be obtained locally, on loan, from Ger-
man sources.—from EUCOM Weekly Direc-
tive No, 49.

Communications Powers

New responsibilities and authority have been
vested in the Federal Republic of Germany
concerning domestic and international posts,
telegraphs and telecommunications, Notification
of the decision was made to the federal gov-
ernment Dec. 21. Transfer of responsibilities
was effective as of Dec, 15.

By the transfer, authority is granted to the
federal government to conduct all international
postal, postal financial, telephone and tele-
graph negotiations and operations for the
German civil population without prior Allied
High Commission approval except for certain
reserved fields, These reserved matters in-
clude the establishment of new radio circuits,
the allocation or clearance of radio frequencies,
the establishment of new international agree-
ments, services or procedures involving the
expenditure of foreign exchange and member-
ship of the major international communications
organizations,

Authority is also granted to the federal gov
ernment to conduct all internal communi-
cations matters except establishment or ex-
pansion of postal financial services or services
involving settlements in foreign exchange be-
tween the US, UK and French areas of control
and the Soviet area of control.

The German government also is authorized
to exercise its new responsibilities on behalf
of the magistrat of Greater Berlin,

Previously the German postal administration
has sent observers to international confer-
ences on posts and telecommunications to
assist and work with Allied representatives,
Under its new powers the Federal Govern-
ment will send official representatives to such
meetings with power to initiate consultation. —
from HICOM announcement.

FEBRUARY 1950

--- Page 60 ---
Housing for Europe’s People

In Greece $25,000,000 has gone into a program to provide homes for
30,000 families. Finnmark, northern Norway’‘s iron ore district, lost
12,000 homes during the war: one third are being replaced. Italy is
using $26,000,000 to help finance its seven-year “Fanfani Plan,”
which calls for construction of 903,000 rooms. In Trieste 1,143 new
apartments of the modern block type pictured are being built while
23,572 other homes are being repaired. In England 239,435 housing
units were completed between April 1948 and April 1949 and addi-
tional housing is constantly being added. New, well planned apatt-
ment blocks, with community services, playgrounds for children and
Spacious lawns are springing up out of the ruins that covered the

industrial areas in 1945—all with the help of American aid via ECA.

--- Page 61 ---
FEBRUARY

Om aS 4+ 2 4H

WY 26
20 377
Flee
22

Ge ae a a

3 10
4.1

PM Gn Bs wos