--- Page 2 ---
HIS 158i)

ECA Aid to Germany Transportation Revival

Police Reform Midway with ERP 1950
BRonad Rack ta Health a

Ominion ae

--- Page 3 ---
“Der Neue Adam," a symbolic abstract in oils (above), took first prize in an all-
German art contest sponsored in Munich recently by American Blevins Davis.
Georg Meistermann of Solingen won the Deutsche mark equivalent of $1,000 and
atrip to the United States for the religious painting which topped more than 3,700
entries from all four zones of Germany. A 40-year-old Munich artist, Leonhard
Wuellfarth, took second prize for ‘‘Almabtrieb,” a pastoral scene in typical Bavarian
motif His award (painting shown below) consisted of $700 in Deutsche marks and
a trip to Rome. A Paris trip and $700 in Deutsche marks went to Max Imdahl, 24,
of Beckum, Westphalia, for his “Schmerzensmann," a full-length portrait of a suf-
fering man (right). Sponsor Davis, interested in encouraging young artists, specified
that only German nationals between the ages of 18 and 40 were eligible to compete.
Judges compared the entries favorably with works of a similar age group in any
part of Europe or the United States. Most reflected the current international trend
in art, and dealt only negligibly with themes of war, ruin and politics. Prominent
German artists and critics conducted preliminary judging and a panel of inter-
national art experts made final selections. Details of the competition were handled
by Louis M. Miniclier, Office of Public Affairs, at the direction of Mr. Davis. At
right, below, Clarence M. Bolds, acting Land Commissioner for Bavaria, gets some
pointers on modern art from prize-winner Meistermann at presentation ceremony.

(Photos by PRB OLCB and Felbermeyer)

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative. in-
formation concerning the policies, regu-
lations, instructions, operations and
activities of the Allied occupation in
Germany.

Editorial Staff:

HgitOr) ce oneereeanes H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer ...... Aileen S, Miles
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard

Editorial Offices:
Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
Frankfurt, Germany

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed in the plant of the Publishing
Operations Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, at 39 Schelling Strasse,
Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

COVER PICTURE

SUNSET ON THE RHINE—This photo-
graph was made by Hyman Charniak,
chief of the News Branch, Public Re-
lations Division, HICOG, near Wies-
baden-Biebrich. The Rhine is one of
ihe principal avenues of transportation
in Germany. An interesting article on
the postwar development of transpor-
tation in Germany has been written
ey William A. Fagan. His article be-
gins on page 11.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

April 1950

Free V Ole Or ONY fies. tics ool os ec a ha oe 2
Policy Statement by US High Commissioner

EGAAid tos Germany: 2.2: ces. ss eae, ate cae 3
Statement by Robert M. Hanes

Inge: Scholl; Schooleacher™ (1.2.07 254-40, OIL. 20 alan tc, q.
Feature by Beth Burchard

“Challenge to the Christian World” ...................... 10

TGUSPORIAUON REVIVAL nc. sou usf su ae opti eer WES Lik
Article by William A. Fagan

PF RELLOWSMID OF LOVO gree  orcluis n sccretide x Asiuista emia Benicia 14
Arlicle by Dr. Leroy Vogel

“Mach. Mit! — RIAS (Quiz (SHOW peanuiine gaye ipaescenns enn 18
Pictoral Feature by Fred G. Taylor

Youth Organizations Developing 20

Police: Reform: e5.20ss eae eA aes: Di
Article by James L. McCraw

Midway Awith (ERP) sis 6.5 hifi ce TIN GIeO GOA ann 2a
Article by Lucien Agniel I

Refugee Shoemakeryicwie csr ce sete see | ene ne 26
A Refugee Success Story

Building Rate Spurred 28

Germany's Road Back to Health 29
Review by Lt. Col. Walter R. de Forest

“What Do You Think?“ — Opinion Surveying ............ ot
Article by Dr. Leo P. Crespi

The Mailman Gets:avHome  2)o-/4,(scr a onsite aia to ae 36
Pictorial Story by Thomas E. Nelson

Berlin Women's Club ... 39
Review of Welfare Activilies

Women of North Germany .. Al

Study of Postwar Emancipation

‘The Hedler*Gaserecnivc ce see tat wa ole etn oe 43
Review of German Reactions

Personnel Notes 46

Occupation Log 48

Fulda Art Congress 54
Pictorial Feature by Dr. Leo Weismantel

Highway, Patrol nar hab: .6 jules apape <ascbapc tes - 56
Review of First Year's Activities

German Editorials and Cartoons ........................ 58

AsLooki at: theyhand. 2S lot cat hain meee 63

OfficialGNotiees) LEVER Sees SEES Ce ees 67
Communiques .. i 67
Laws and Regulationss iss eis sat ace e e 67
Statements 69
Announcements FA

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
net Free Vote for Unity aT =

American policy of fostering a politically united Germany was restated by
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy at a press conference in Frankfurt
Feb. 28. Mr. McCloy told the press:

HAVE on two occasions in Berlin stated that the political unification of Germany on the
basis of free all-German elections is a major objective of United States policy.

“The aspiration of the Germans for unity and freedom is now challenged by the Com-
munists of the Soviet Zone, who offer the device of a so-called ‘National Front' as a means
to ‘democratic unity.’ Elections in the East zone now scheduled for October 15 are pro-
claimed as affording an opportunity of expressing the people's will. But only one kind of
freedom will be permitted expression at these elections: freedom to vote for a single list of
candidates selected in advance only by the Party elite which executes dictates of the Soviet
Union. In contrast to this travesty, the people of Western Germany enjoy the political
freedoms so conspicuously absent in the East: the right to engage freely in party activity
and the right to vote freely for any candidate.

“We understand the universal German urge for unification and condemn the exploitation
of that feeling by dishonest devices such as the Soviet-sponsored ‘National Front’ and its
proposed plebiscite. These devices fraudulently excite and exploit the natural wish of the
German people for unity while denying to them the free and democratic processes by which
unity can be attained. The reluctance of the Communist usurpers of East Germany to submit
to free elections, or to permit the unification of Germany to proceed thereby, makes it
abundantly clear that they are unwilling to trust the choice of the German people. My
Government stands ready to assist the German people to achieve unity, based on true
democratic principles and reflecting the aspirations of the entire German nation.

“Unity and freedom can be attained in Germany only if there be full and equal op-
portunity for all parties throughout Germany to propose candidates, advance programs and
compete for the electorate’s favor. All candidates must be assured complete freedom of
action without discrimination or official favoritism, together with access to all essential
media of communication and material facilities. Every voter must be assured the protection
of the law in the free expression of his opinion at the polls. The press must have unhindered
access to all areas in order to report the election campaign accurately.

“Meanwhile, my Government is extending its full support to the Federal Republic,
which was evolved from these democratic processes to which all Germans can aspire.’

N WASHINGTON, Secretary of State Acheson, in his weekly news conference, said the

State Department completely and thoroughly supports US High Commissioner McCloy's
proposal for a nationwide free election on the question of unification of Germany, and
pointed out that this long has been State Department policy.

He recalled United States, British and French insistence at the Big Four Council of
Foreign Ministers meeting in Paris last June that one of the requirements for settling the
German problem was absolutely free elections for all Germany, for all candidates and for
all parties. However, he added, the other occupying countries were unable at that time to
get Soviet Foreign Minister Vishinsky to agree.

Meanwhile news dispatches reported that the British and French High Commissions’
Offices endorsed Mr. McCloy's proposal when asked for comment. In a latter press con-
ference, British High Commissioner Sir Brian Robertson told correspondents that an ever
increasing smoke cloud of propaganda was going up about the unity of Germany, If those
responsible for all this propaganda would “give us an ounce of sincerity and cooperation”
all the things to which they profess attachment could be easily achieved.

“Unfortunately,” Sir Brian said, ‘those who are so loud in their protestations about
German unity have no intention of allowing Germany any unity in bondage. My govern-
ment, on the other hand, in common with its Western Allies, has made it plain on several
occasions that it stands for German unity and freedom and is resolved to do everything in
its power to attain that aim.”

ETIMITIIIULUUULUUUULIUULULELOULULLCUOLOLLLULLOOOLUCOGU ELLE LECUGEOUULULLLUUUOOOE LULL LOCCOOLAE ee OULLUULUUUECOOOOAOUUELLLLOEEUCUOAEOLULULCUCGLeeeOCULLLUULILUCCLeGeeeeeLULUULLLeULLecee-Oc-LLUoLLooooo don

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 APRIL 1950

--- Page 6 ---
ECA Aid to Germany

By ROBERT M. HANES
Chief, ECA Mission to Germany

INCE THE LAST TIME that an ECA Mission chief

from Germany appeared before Congress, profound
changes have taken place within the country. Western
Germany now has its own government, and almost com-
plete fusion of the US, British and French Zones has
been accomplished. Military Government has been re-
placed by a civilian body, the Allied High Commission.

Under the new organizational setup, the ECA Mission
chief performs a dual function. He not only represents
the Economic Cooperation Administration, but also acts
as the director of the Office of Economic Affairs on the
staff of the US High Commissioner. The High Commis-
sioner, on his part, also has ECA functions and is the
ECA representative in Germany, During the year, GARIOA
funds (Government and Relief in Occupied Areas) pre-
viously administered by the Department of the Army, were
placed under ECA for administration and programming.

Under the Occupation Statute and the Allied High
Commission the new German government has assumed
powers and responsibilities far beyond those held by the
former German Economic Council. The German Federal
Republic now has full rights and responsibilities for
participation in the Marshall Plan and its organizations.

In October 1949, the Federal Republic of Germany be-
came a full-fledged partner in the OEEC where it now
represents, and talks for, itself rather than being re-
presented by the Allies.

In December 1949, a bilateral agreement was concluded
between the government of the United States and the
German federal government. In January of this year that
agreement was ratified by the German legislature. Ger-
many now has its own delegation here in Washington.
An ERP ministry was established within the German
administration, and the vice chancellor was appointed
as its head. Existing arrangements also include aid to
the city of Berlin with whose particular problems I shall
deal later,

HE TREMENDOUS UPSURGE in industrial production
which marked the period from June to December
1948 slackened during the first half

ing the important role it formerly held in the European
economy, both as a producer and consumer, and as one
of the principal participants in European trade. The rise
in production has made it possible to meet many of the
pent-up demands, particularly for consumer goods.

During the past year prices in general have been stable,
and in the last months there have even been some
reductions. Rationing and price controls have been
abolished for consumer goods, and today controls exist
only over gasoline and a few agricultural and basic
industrial items. The present levels of food consumption
and agricultural production are considerably higher than
a year ago. The average daily diet now reaches approxi-
mately 2,500 calories as against 2,900 before the war.

Although quality has not reached the standards of
prewar days, the diet affords a variety comparable to
that period. This improvement in the food situation is,
however, the result of food imports and unusually
favorable weather. It does not stem from any sub-
stantial improvement in the method of agricultural pro-
duction and planning.

N THE FINANCIAL field, the outstanding characteristic

of the past year has been the trend from inflation to
deflation. The currency reform of June 1948 had unleas-
ed a buying splurge which in the latter part of that
year threatened to become most serious. Establishment
of a strict credit control policy and the slackening of
abnormal consumer demands combined to halt the in-
flationary trend and to stabilize the situation. In actual
fact, definite deflationary pressures made themselves
felt in the ensuing months. To combat this deflationary
tendency, credit policies were liberalized and ECA
counterpart funds were released for investment purposes.

In the field. of external finance, the German currency
was devalued in autumn of 1949, following similar action
by other European countries, so that German exporters
now have a better chance to compete in world markets.

The problem of the dollar gap remains the most critical
in Germany today. Only one-tenth of

of 1949, but there were some further
increases in production during the
last six months of the year,.German
production has more than doubled
Since the beginning of the European
Recovery Program.

In May 1948, the production index
Stood at 47 percent of 1936, in No-
vember 1949 it had reached a peak
of 98 percent. This increase allowed
Germany to make a start toward play-

This article is the complete text
of the statement made by Robert
M. Hanes, chief of the ECA Mis-
sion to Germany, before a joint
session of the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee and the House
Foreign Affairs Committee, in Wash-
ington, Feb. 27, 1950. Mr. Hanes
spoke before the Congressional com-
mittees considering the Administra-
tion's request for a $2,950,000,000
third-year installment on the Mar-
shall Plan in the 1951 fiscal year.

German dollar imports are covered
by exports to hard currency areas. The
difference is financed by American aid,
which is directly responsible for the
recovery so far achieved, Still, serious
difficulties in the economic field re-
main to be solved.

I wish at this point, to touch briefly
on what we consider to be the four
major economic problems facing west-
ern Germany today:

APRIL 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
1, Production.

ESTERN GERMANY must raise

both its agricultural and indus-
trial production if it is to survive
without external assistance. It can
never raise more than approximately
65 percent of its own food require-
ments. In order to cut down on food
imports, a determined effort is being
made to increase indigenous produc-
tion, Limiting factors in the agricul-
tural picture are fixed prices, for
grains in particular, which neither
encourage the German production
of otherwise dollar import foods nor
discourage their excessive use.

German agricullural methods are
antiquated, agricultural research and
extension work have been grossly
inadequate during the last 15 years.
Through technical assistance pro-
grams efforts are being made to
spread knowledge of modern tech-
niques to the farmers. Lack of mechanization has resulted
in high production costs, and has caused land utilization
and reclamation programs to proceed very slowly. It
is estimated that some 500,000 additional acres of land
could be claimed for cultivation, if modern methods
were pursued,

Germany's backwardness in this regard can be illus-
trated by certain lands which extend across the Dutch
border. On the Dutch side, the land has been brought
into high production, while the German portion exists
only as waste land. ECA counterpart funds are being
made available for the reclamation of land and for
investment in farm machinery.

Industrial production, although on a relatively higher
level of efficiency than agricultural, is still inadequate
and inefficient by American standards. Present German
forecasts envisage a level of 107 percent of 1938 by
the end of the ERP period. This, in our opinion, is far
short of what can be accomplished. Industrial production
can and should be raised to at least 120 percent of
1936. Limitations such as costly handiwork and lack
of investment capital must be overcome.

Western Germany's problem is to export the right
goods to the right places, and to produce them at a
cost which is competitive in world markets. This calls
for a readjustment and reorientation of German indus-
trial thinking, which heretofore has developed within
the confines of protective markets, monopolies and
cartels, and has not been fully exposed to the realities
of a truly free, competitive market.

The German industrialist still thinks in terms of a
small turnover at a high profit, rather than of large
production at low profit margins. In addition, German
export trade is still hampered by the lack of adequate
sales organizations, unfamiliarity with modern merchan-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Robert M. Hanes.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICoG) been

dizing methods, and, to some extent,
by a still prevalent, although de-
creasing antagonism against German
products abroad.

2. Capital Investment.

RITICAL TO the problem.of rais-

ing production is the shortage
of investment capital. Where such
capital is available, interest rates are
high and the dangerous practice of
using short-term credit for long-term
investments has been adopted in far
too many cases, A shortage of long-
term capital is retarding the rebuild-
ing of plants and the rehabilitation
and modernization of equipment.

In order to relieve, somewhat,
this shortage, substantial amounts
of ECA counterpart funds have
released. But counterpart

funds alone cannot solve the
problem. Only small amounts of investment funds are
available from the capital markets. Neither private
banks nor public budgets are in a position to make
large credits available. The central bank, Bank Deut-
scher Laender, seems to be the only immediate hope
of relief but this is neither permanent nor satisfactory.

The capital shortage reflects itself in two of the most
urgent problems in western Germany, namely, housing
and unemployment. We find today the paradoxical situa-
tion of a country needing 5,000,000 homes while laying
off men in the building trades. Counterpart funds are
being used to stimulate the housing program, but more
needs to be done if explosive social and political conse-
quences are to be avoided.

Unemployment has reached the level of 2,000,000 or
approximately 10 percent of the labor force. The constant
influx of refugees from the Soviet Zone and the Iron
Curtain countries, about 20,000 per month, is a large
contributing factor. While refugees constitute about 18
percent of the total western German population, they
comprise 35 percent of the unemployed. They increase
the pressure on housing and jobs, and they are con-
sidered outsiders and intruders by the local population.

They bring resentment in their wake — a resentment
which poses tremendous social as well as economic
problems.

Indeed, apart from its humanitarian aspects, this prob-
lem which is peculiar to postwar western Germany
and does not arise in the case of any other ERP country,
has far-reaching political implications. Only by a con-
certed effort to integrate these people into the economy
and the body politic will it be possible to avoid unrest
and the development of extremist political thinking in
that group. While the problem is one which the Ger-
man government must meet by its own efforts, I feel
that it is deserving of special consideration in the allo-
cation of American aid.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 8 ---
HE LACK of long-term capital for housing and in-
dustrial expansion, the tapering off of extraordinary
purchasing power and a not fully developed export trade
have played their part in aggravating the unemployment
situation. Large numbers of jobless, mainly refugees,
live in the agricultural districts where they are un-
wanted and where jobs are unavailable. In many cases
their movement to areas where better opportunities for
employment, and even scarce labor conditions, exist, is
obstructed by lack of housing facilities in those areas.
Both the ECA Mission and the German government
are vitally concerned with the unemployment situation.
It is my personal view that western Germany cannot
achieve either economic or special stability unless this
problem is met head-on. An extensive housing program,
financed in part by ECA counterpart funds, is one of the
measures being taken to meet the immediate emergency.
Over the long run, however, the very roots of the
existing ills must be attacked. This will require great
skill and foresight on the part of the federal govern-
ment. Its action must be bold in obtaining the best use
of all resources and must, at the same time, be cautious
so as not to jeopardize monetary stability.

Above all, production must be increased and produc-
tivity must be improved. In my opinion the existing
monetary situation would permit a substantial expansion
of credit for long-term investment, provided that adequate
fiscal safeguards exist. The system of tax collections must
be tightened and the tax structure so devised as to dis-
courage luxury consumption and provide more funds for
investment.

Credit facilities should be approved for projects which
are of special benefit to the economy as a whole and
which will create additional labor content in productive
industries. Finally a vigorous drive to increase exports,
and in particular exports to the dollar area, must be
initiated.

3. Foreign Trade and the Balance of Payments.

iv WESTERN GERMANY is to reach its goals under
the European Recovery Program, exports, and parti-
cularly dollar exports, must rise dramatically. The here-
tofore mentioned 10-1 ratio of dollar imports to dollar
exports must be drastically reduced. At present time,
due to the far-reaching trade liberalization policies pur-
sued by western Germany, her trade with other European
countries is out of balance. The ECA Mission is con-
fident, however, that the near future will see other
European nations buying more from Germany which
should arrest the existing trend and, indeed, lead to the
re-establishment of a German export surplus with western
Europe.

It is to the dollar area, however, that Germany must
look more closely and devote the greatest part of its
efforts. Steps in this direction are being taken. A ‘‘dol-
lar drive" has been launched. This drive includes the
establisment in the United States of a market research
Crganization, western German participation in inter-
hational fairs and exhibits, and a current proposal to
make available to exporters a certain percentage of the

APRIL 1950

German worker makes tires out of heavy wood with a
special pressing machine. The factory in which he works
is selling 25 percent of the farm equipment it manufactures
to Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark, France and Belgium.

dollars they earn for imports of their choice from the
dollar area. Special attention is being given, both by the
federal government and by the ECA Mission, to tourism,
an important dollar-earning trade.

The tremendous domestic demand within western Ger-
many has made it easier in the past for the manufacturer
to cater to home wants than to embark upon the uncer-
tainties of foreign trade. It is necessary for the western
German people to turn from this “line of least resistance”
and face up to the problem of sustaining themselves when
American aid ceases. To help the western German ex-
porter, ECA is bringing into the country numerous experts
in a variety of fields who under the technical assistance
program will teach the German industrialist, trade union
representative and farmer the most modern production
techniques. In addition, the German people must be
brought to appreciate the urgent necessity to forego im-
mediate personal advantage in favor of expanding exports.

O BRING ITS TRADE into near balance, Germany

must look to new sources for imports, Eastern Europe,
South America and other OEEC participation countries
offer sources which can conserve western Germany's
dollar supply.

Most important for the survival of the country is the
adoption of a freer trade system. The overcrowded west-
ern German area can no longer afford the protectionist
devices which were developed to promote the self-suf-
ficiency of the prewar Reich. This discredited policy must
be replaced by one which will open new markets for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
western German exports and at the same time provide
the foreign exchange needed to finance heavy imports
in food and raw materials.

To this end quantitative restrictions (especially for food
imports) must be progressively removed, cartels and
monopolies must be eliminated so as to abolish restric-
tions on industry and trade and to make it possible for
small business to live and compete successfully, and in-
centives to exporters must be provided. I should like to
say here that the federal German government has thus
far acted boldly and promptly in the matter of trade
liberalization. Indeed, it has outstripped every other ERP
country, save Switzerland, in this regard.

A, Berlin.

IHE CITY OF BERLIN, which is situated as an economic

and political island surrounded by the Soviet Zone,
presents very special problems. I am glad to report that
during the past year assistance was brought to this be-
leaguered city, and, that under the terms of the new
bilateral agreement between the Federal Republic and the
United States, the German federal government has assumed
the responsibility for financial aid to Berlin. This, I be-
lieve, will bring badly needed help to the former capital
which due to its particular position has lagged far behind
the economic recovery of western Germany because of
the following reasons;

1, Industrial production is only 25 percent of 1936, High
unemployment, 25 percent of the labor force, is not only
due to industrial stagnation, but because so great a pro-
portion of Berlin's population was once directly or in-
directly working for the government.

2. The loss of approximately 80 percent of the in-
dustrial equipment because of kombing and removal by
the Soviets, prior to the arrival of the western powers
in Berlin in 1945,

3. High transportation costs due to restricted routes
which increase shipping costs to western Germany.

Ten to 12 percent of the coal mined in the Ruhr is slated
for the factories of other European countries and for that
reason coal production has received priority consideration
in ERP allocations of counterpart Deutsche mark funds.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

4. A relatively high wage rate which boosts produc-
tion costs.

5. The city's unstable financial condition. The budget
deficit for the current year will be over $200,000,000
(DM 840,000,000).

6. The enormous war damage to buildings of all kinds
which must still be repaired, and

7. The political uncertainties which make west business-
men hesitate to trade with Berlin.

O COMBAT these conditions, the ECA Mission has

suggested that the German government and occu-
pation procurement authorities stimulate orders in the
Berlin area, that tax concessions be made to capital re-
maining in or going to Berlin, that the budget be
balanced through aid from the Federal Republic, and
that counterpart funds in appreciable quantities be
diverted toward the city.

We are all highly conscious of the importance of the
fate of Berlin for the future of Germany. Special meas-
ures have been necessary in the past and will probably
continue to be necessary to insure its life and freedom.
But we feel that the contributions which were required
were well deserved by the Berlin people who have so
resolutely withstood the economic and political pres-
sures which have been brought to bear on them by the
Soviets.

Germany has a very particular place in the Marshall
Plan. Never before has a victorious nation undertaken
a positive program to rehabilitate a vanquished ad-
versary. We have embarked on this unique venture
because the experience of five years of occupation has
demonstrated to us the tremendous impact which con-
ditions in Germany have on western Europe.

As a whole Germany is the crux of the European
problem. In order to solve the German as well as the
European problem, western Germany must be tied as
closely as possible to western Europe and must not
only be permitted but encouraged to buy and sell in the
international markets.

We have spent many billions of dollars to eradicate
Nazism from the world. It seems well worthwhile to
spend a small fraction of that amount in western Ger-
many to lay the foundation of an economic structure
which can prevent the resurgence of any extremist ide-
ologies which threaten the peace of the world. -+-END

New Magazine to Aid Teachers

A new professional magazine will be published
monthly in Berlin to assist teachers in keeping up-to-date
on developments in the techniques and materials for
progressive instruction, Berlin Element Education Branch
announced. First issue of the publication, entitled “Wege
Zur Neuen Erziehung" (Ways to a New Education),
appeared late in March. Cost of publication will be
borne by US reorientation funds and the magazine will
be distributed free to key teaching personnel in the
western sectors of Berlin,

APRIL 1950 —

--- Page 10 ---
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher

By BETH BURCHARD

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

“One day in 1945 (in the wrecked city of Ulm), posters appeared on the walls
of houses. They told of a lecture that was to be given. The people stared in dis-
belief. Was it possible, just a few weeks after the end of the war? Was it
really true that Romano Guardini* would speak — wasn't he dead?"

Te ARE THE WORDS of the young German girl
whose purposeful hands hung the posters, telling
residents of Ulm that free thought had returned to
their city.

Her name is Inge Scholl and the posters represented
a war-long determination and a lifetime's work ahead.

Inge Scholl was 25 when her brother and sister were
beheaded for anti-Nazi activities at Munich University.
She had already determined that at war's end, she would
in some way devote her life to dissuading the German
people from their band-wagon weakness for demagogy.
But the horrifying deaths of Hans and Sophie in a
Munich prison gave form to her fight — the brother
and sister and their friends had had a plan, and it was
Inge's to carry on.

In the little garrison city of Ulm, Inge worked the
first years of the last war in the tax consultants’ office
of her father, The family's sympathies were well enough
known so that, with the execution of the two student

Inge Scholl.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

APRIL 1950

members, all of them and their friends were hustled into
prison, Inge to stay for five months,

HE END OF THE WAR had long meant freedom, an

end to oppression and the resumption of meaningful
life. It was the moment for which Inge had waited, and
yet peace dawned on a city strewn with ruins, a people
without food or clothing or hope. To do what she and
her martyred brother and sister dreamed meant sur-
mounting huge odds in herself and despair in those to
whom she appealed.

Inge had one friend to help. Otto Aicher was a young
Ulmer, an ex-soldier who had tried to warn Sophie and
Hans Scholl before their arrest. The two planned together
to bring speakers to Ulm, to tell what they had been
forbidden to tell during the deadening, wasted years of
the Nazi reign.

It was Otto who wheeled through the nightmarish
wreckage of southern Germany on a bicycle to find
their first speakers.

There was no hall in Ulm where such lectures could be
held, but one church remained undamaged and in it was
a meeting room. Inge and Otto had no funds so a small
fee was charged, to cover the expense of the speakers’
arduous journeys and brief stays in the little city.

Scarcity of food made ration cards necessary in those
months. The cards could be used only in the city of
issuance. So speakers came in cars or on the bulging
trains, halted and detoured for hours by ruins, and
arrived in a city where food was not available to them.
It was often impossible to tell, despite the posters’
proclamations, whether the speakers would have strength
enough to give their lectures. Once a speaker fainted
on the stage.

Inge was able to obtain, at length, a supplementary
ration from the city, and the lecturers were given a tiny
supper before taking the stage. Inge’s sister had an
extra room in her home, which became the chamber for
visiting lecturers.

After a while the two obtained a car, and thereafter
travel for them and for their guests was easier.

HAT OF THE ULMERS, who ‘disbelieved those first
dramatic posters?

Says Inge, ‘To them it was hard to believe. Here was
something that had been forbidden them during all the
Nazi time — they could hardly understand that the past
and all that had happened were discussed thus openly.

% A German-Italian religious philosopher.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
However, the misery of the past had opened their hearts
to frank and serious talk. They began to relax. In spite
of the insecurity and primitive standard of living, it was
quite evident that times had changed. There was new
hope.”

Again and again, crowds made their way to the
church through the grotesque and near-impassable ruins,
Lectures were given by renowned philosophers, authors
and theologians, people whose names had seemed for-
ever extinguished in the days of Nazidom. Gradually
the mystery dissolved — how had these lecturers gotten
to Ulm, when there was practically no communication
with the outside, either by rail or post? The people of
Ulm learned what Inge Scholl dreamed of doing, in
memory of her murdered brother and sister. It was this
audience which appealed to Inge to expand the lecture
series into a permanent school.

In 1946, a year after war's end, 28-year-old Inge Scholl
was director of the Ulmer Volkshochschule.

There had been such a school — a night school for
adults — once before in the city. But in 1933 it had
been discontinued, and there were no other educational
sources in the city beyond the high schools. So despite
the meagerness of the school's first offerings, they were
enthusiastically devoured by the residents of Ulm, In
one day, 2,000 persons enrolled for classes.

Today, if one asks Inge Scholl for a look at her
school, she will smile apologetically and lead a tour
through classrooms of several public schools, to the old
firehouse of Ulm and to the offices and small lecture
room which bears the name of Ulmer Volkshochschule.
The school came to life in the loft of the old firehouse,
a room the city contributed for Inge’s use. Before each
lecture, more than 400 chairs were hauled onto the floor
and set up. For smaller classes, rooms were procured
in public schools, or other public places were temporarily
converted into classrooms.

HEN THE YEAR 1946 began, and Inge was casting

about for funds with which to launch the longed-
for school, the mayor of Ulm granted permission for a
collection to be taken in the school’s name. More than
40,000 marks was contributed. In 1947 the state of
Wuerttemberg-Baden appropriated funds for the school.
Major financing, however, came from a system since
adopted by several other adult evening schools. Close
to 70 percent of school expenses were covered through
a fee of two Reichsmarks per month paid by 2,300 mem-
bers. All in turn were privileged to attend any class,
lecture, or belong to any group under the school's
sponsorship.

Despite the enthusiasm of some, setting up the little
school in Ulm was not a task for the undedicated. The
“new day” that had dawned after a 12-year storm was
not so clear as the friends of Hans and Sophie Scholl
had anticipated. The new, the “‘free’’ Germany put its
shoulder to a grindstone that wore it down with ration
cards and housing shortage and shrunken supplies of
needed goods. “It was disheartening to read, day after
day in the newspapers, that we were all guilty of the
horrible war. The slow sifting of Nazis from the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

unbelievers began, and as it proceeded sapped much

” enthusiasm from the young people of Ulm who wanted

to plunge as quickly as possible from the old to the
new Germany.

Then currency reform came and many could no longer
afford the two-mark fee to enter the school.

Inge watched the school’s followers diminish; her
inspiration could not lessen for some the insurmount-
ables of new misery and doubts. But she and Otto kept
plugging toward their goal. Otto designed modernistic
posters and the city allowed them a small free space
on the sidewalk ad-posts. Inge solicited funds from the
state and city governments. (The State Ministry of
Education has offered her a DM 500-600 salary per
month, from which she takes money she needs and
funnels the remainder back into the school.)

For the financially hard-hit, she has worked out free
membership, so that today 200 attend the school without
paying fees. Many of these free members do odd jobs
and carpentry about the school; one woman mends
for Inge.

There are now 2,500 students in the school, a board
of conscientious and prominent “trustees,’ and a roster
of lecturers that reads like a German Who's Who. The
school has come of age and wields an influence in
educational circles on many levels. The Ulm adult eve-
ning school is a maverick among German education
institutions but its success holds great promise for
them all.

IHERE ARE THREE main emphases in the school

program. Lectures still maintain a huge following
with such names as Theodor Heuss and Carl Zuckmayer
as drawing cards. Classes balm the curiosity of those
who wish to learn about anthropology, music, psychology,
art, drama and mathematics.

A third segment of the program is the work group
plan. In the work groups, students abandon their role
of bench-sitting and themselves dig for the facts they
want to learn. One recent theme for a work group was
city planning, in which city officials, planning experts :
and imaginative citizens were subpoenaed for their
views on the topic. City government is explored, the
officials queried and their organization meetings moni-
tored by group members. These studies spawn earnest
discussions and helpful recommendations which go to
the citizens and officials to whom they are of concern.

This form of study is Inge’s pride, since it illustrates
the aptitude of Ulm students to take the lead in demo-
cratic activity. Her greatest satisfaction is in noting
the drift of study subjects and methods from formalism
and theory to a close concern for the everyday problems
and questions which touch upon every citizen's life.

Inge is assisted in administering the school by two
permanent secretaries and by two maintenance men
who service the scattered classrooms. Funds are insuf-
ficient to permit hiring out-of-town teachers for the
frequent classes in foreign languages so Ulmers carry the
burden of instruction in French, English, Russian and other
tongues. The majority of other courses are held but
once weekly, so that authoritative instructors for many

APRIL 1950

--- Page 12 ---
miles around the city have been induced to make
once-a-week trips to the city to conduct the classes.
She still aims at a permanent faculty, and one roof
for the entire school.

UCH OF THE SCHOOL'S development derives from

the nine-man group which stands as an informal
board of trustees. An editor, clergyman, representatives
of education, city government and labor are members of
the board. They are supplemented by a “Group of 50"
which seeks to translate the work of the school into
projects for civic development. This group consists of
50 interested citizens of Ulm.

Many of the students contribute to a monthly maga-
zine emanating from Inge’s clean and modern office. In
the magazine are discussions of current cultural notables,
a chronicle of events in Ulm, and a list of the coming
month’s lectures and classes. Each month's lecture pro-
gram is packaged under one theme — from month to
month it varies from literature to medicine to current
politics.

Behind the large variety of subject matter lies one
motive: to teach Germans, not what to think but how
to think.

In a sense, Inge has attained her goal — she has
found and delivered a means by which to lead her
countrymen out of the authoritarian groove. Her hands
are more than full with the job she now executes. Yet
in the back of her mind a new plan is forming — a big
dream and a’giant hope. Inge Scholl wants to found a
day college in Ulm. ,

“A new kind of school, a modern one.” Not modern
just in the sense she wants informal teaching and homey
classrooms, but modern as to subject matter. She
envisions professors from all parts of Germany and from
countries throughout the world, who will teach new
precepts to students of industrial design, commercial art,
radio and film, journalism and advertising.

The students will come not merely from Ulm, but
from the farthest borders of Germany, to live in a
modem dormitory and to learn the crafts of the mid-
century world. “But no matter what the subject," says
Inge, “with professors of many lands, philosophies and
religions, new patterns of thinking will inevitably be
taught.”

Tet IS INGE SCHOLL'S new dream: a day college
teaching modern crafts in such a way as to en-
courage independent thought. She sees it as a symbol
for a new Germany.

To Inge this college is more than a dream. It is a
possibility and she stands ready to see it through. She
has discussed her plan with many and has received
encouragement and support in influential quarters all
over Europe.

She told her story to US High Commissioner McCloy
— her past and her project for the future which
prompted him to tell the American people about her, In
his speech at Boston on January 26, Mr. McCloy said,
“This story of an individual... will reveal why many
of us working in Germany have faith in the future of
the German people.” + END

American Group Trained as Local Emissaries in Germany

HE DEPARTMENT OF STATE has announced that its

Foreign Service Institute has inaugurated a special
three-month course to train a group of selected young
Americans for county-level posts as “local emissaries”
in Germany.

Twenty-seven men, all around 30 years of age, are
taking this course. They have been chosen from a pooi
of Foreign Service candidates who have already passed
rigid examinations for the Service, written, oral and
physical, in annual nation-wide competition.

Upon the completion of training, all officers will go to
Germany for service under the Office of the United States
High Commissioner, John J. McCloy, who conceived the
idea of this specialized training course for his local aides.
Each man will be stationed in a German county (Kreis),
where he will represent the American people and the
High Commissioner in carrying on a program of active
Presentation of democratic ideas and processes. Approxi-
mately 80 county officers already are actively engaged
in this “grass roots" program in Germany.

In many cases, these men will work in communities far
removed from American administrative centers in Ger-
many, and will be the only Americans in their particular
localities, With their wives and children, these young
men, purposely chosen from the younger generation, will

APRIL 1950

.participate actively in German community life, developing

friendly relationships and personalizing to their German
neighbors the spirit of America.

Each resident officer must be able at the completion
of training to speak the German language fluently and
idiomatically in order to be able to reach a maximum
effectiveness in communicating ideas. For that reason,
the Foreign Service Institute course includes four hours
a day of drill in conversational German. This training is
given in accordance with the scientific methods of inten-
sive language instruction used so successfully by the
Armed Forces during the war.

The primary mission of each resident officer will be
to work with German officials and other local leaders
in an effort to encourage democratic processes and
attitudes and to foster the development of responsible
citizenship. Germans will not be asked to copy American
institutions but to develop their own in accordance with
accepted democratic values. Resident officers will de-
scribe and explain American institutions, and encourage
free and open discussion of the American way of life,
so that the Germans may be led to understand and adopt
such American ways as may aid in the development of
a democratic Germany. — From the Department of State
Bulletin, Feb. 13.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
ENITHMIMIUOUOUUMUTUUITRTOUUUUUUUUCNTOUUUUUUUOLTUVTOCUUULLUUNOOCUUULUCUMOOOCUUUUUUOUUUTOOOCOUCULUUUUAROUCOOUUUUCAOOUCUULUUCLAUAOOOOOUUUURUOEUUCAMOOUUUUULLLLCUOOCUUU CLUE UUULLLCoo LULL LLDL Lo

“Challenge to the Christian World”

CCASIONALLY THINGS reach us individually through the mail or otherwise which are so com-

pelling and so appropriate and so meaningful...that we feel we must share them with our
fellow men." 3

So impressed was Captain Charles R. Jeffs, USN, the land commissioner for Bremen, with the
cover article on what had seemed a “normal, ordinary calendar for 1950" that he read it aloud to
listeners of his Feb. 18 radio program.

The article was entitled “A Challenge to the Christian World.” “And a challenge it is indeed...
to every human being... who believes in the fundamental decency and freedom of man,” said
Capt. Jeffs.

“There is loose in the world a philosophy of life called Communism that would destroy the fact
of Christ in the heart and mind of man," the article began. “It is a force that is the enemy of the
Wester world and Western civilization with its emphasis on human rights as an inalienable... It
is a force that has millions of followers, hangers-on and fellow travelers while actually only a few
outside the Communist leaders themselves know anything about its philosophy.

“Thousands have been duped into believing that Communism is just an economic theory of
production for use rather than profit; others have foolishly flocked to its banner believing it to be
a defense of the worker and the disinherited. Its fellow travelers jaunt about countries of the world
glibly deceiving people into believing that through its collectivism every one will be rewarded far
more than through the individualism of the Western world.

ASICALLY, COMMUNISM is none of these things. Rather, it is a complete philosophy of life —a

conception which denies and seeks to destroy the truths of Christianity upon which our Western
civilization was founded and furthered. Communism dominates not only the periphery of life but
controls man's inner life as well. Communism has a theory and a practice; it wishes to be not only
a state but a church judging the consciences of men; it is a doctrine of salvation and as such claims
the whole man, body and soul, and in this sense is totalitarian...

“The Communist explanation of morality is simple: ‘The end justifies the means.’ Therefore they
do not find that it even contradicts its moral law when, for example, it extends a friendly hand to
religion one year and the next year persecutes it... As Lenin said... ‘It is necessary... to use any
ruse, cunning, unlawful method, evasion, concealment of the truth.’”

“Experiences in recent times have shown that sometimes Communism does not openly oppose
religion. It may give a church the right to worship provided it becomes an instrument either of
pan-Slavism or the communication of Communist ideology; thus such a privilege is granted at the
cost of freedom and for tactical purposes. A church that serves the cause of Christ and spreads the
morality of His teachings could never be permitted. We understand why when we study the basic
principle underlying the writings of Marx. This is that man has been alienated from himself in two
ways — by religion and by private property. According to Marx, man becomes alienated from
himself when he subordinates himself to God. Private property alienates a man from himself by
subordinating him to an employer; it follows that if man is ever to be restored to himself, both
religion and private property must be destroyed. This is why Marx recommended that a criticism of
religion must be the first step if a transformation of society would be achieved.

“Many are the persons who turn to Communism, instead of to the tender mercy of God, when
they become disillusioned and frustrated... Communism presents an exceedingly dangerous challenge
to Christianity because of the ignorance...of those who support (it). It is exceedingly important
that the fundamental doctrines of this political philosophy and religion be exposed in their true
light... Foremost in our minds should be the fact that Christianity is the most formidable stum-
bling-block in the pathway of Communism...

“If we are ever to lift the world from its present chaos and deal effectively with the challenge
of Communism, each one of us must rearm spiritually. We must turn to God for the courage, the
strength and the wisdom that we may triumph over this task that lies ahead. May we be granted
a spiritual alliance between the peoples of all nations to build a fortress of righteousness that will
safeguard the faith, the hope and the charity of mankind. And may our faith remain so strong that
never again can Communism or any anti-God force rear its ugly head to challenge our churches,
our freedom to worship God, the blessings of our religion, and the way of life these have pro-
vided us,” :

HUUUULUOOUOQOQUOOOQOQANO00000 00000 0F TST ET TU PEOEEOTGOUOEROOEUCCET COU CUU UOTE

INFORMATION BULLETIN 10 APRIL 1950

--- Page 14 ---
‘Transportation Revival

By WILLIAM A. FAGAN

Chief, Transportation Branch
Industry Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

IHREE HUNDRED THOUSAND trucks and trailers

stringing across Germany's autobahns go a long
way toward telling the remarkable story of transporta-
tion in postwar Germany.

Four and a half years ago, just half that number rode
the highways, and they carried but a tiny fraction of
what they haul today.

Four and a half years ago, too, rail cars, tracks and
bridges lay in smithereens. But since 1949, railroads
have filled 100 percent the demands for movement of
freight across the convalescing land.

Five hundred thousand tons of steel, 76,000 tons of
concrete and more than 2,000 sunken craft have been
dredged from Germany's inland waterways to make way
for a traffic 26 times greater in 1949 than in 1945.

The vestigial German merchant fleet carried six times
more freight in 1949 than it did three years before.

From a chaos that had stilled most of Germany's rail,
highway and water conveyors, occupation authorities
and German organizations have marshalled a trans-
portation system which today has more than enough
capacity to service the whole nation.

The outlook for such recovery in 1945 was not bright.

Trains, ships and motor vehicles had been crippled
and lost; the aisles of transportation were clogged with
rubble. Whatever transport facilities remained floundered
uselessly at berth, with no organization to set them in
motion. To aggravate an already appalling situation
were the disrupted German cur-
rency system and the transport
tariff structure, rendering nor-
mally cheaper means of trans-
portation more expensive,

ECOVERY, IN the beginning,
was guided by principles
outlined in the Potsdam Agree-
ment, which provided that Ger-
many was to be treated as a
single economic unit. To that
end, common policies were estab-
lished regarding transportation.
An “Over-all Transportation
Premise,’ laid down in Septem-
ber 1945, outlined two general
policies;

other Allied demands, and the needs of the accepted
German civil economy.

(2) Inland waterways were to be bolstered as a means
for long-haul* traffic, in the face of an overloaded and
underequipped rail system; trucking would be utilized
for short hauls as well as feeder service for railways
and inland waterways.

It was more than seven months before the US Army
Transportation Corps loosed its control over traffic faci-
lities in the US Zone. The urgency of its assignments
precluded turning over control before then to Military
Government — there was troop redeployment to the
Far East to be taken care of, as well as demobilization
to the US, the prisoner of war, restitution, refugee and
displaced persons programs.

But on the first of January, 1946, Military Govern-
ment took over and the Germans themselves were dealt
a portion of the responsibilities for transport recovery.

T THIS JUNCTURE was launched the first of several

German organizations that were under Allied super-
vision to engineer a remarkable and still-developing re-
birth of Germany's transportation.

This first organization, however, was not a party to
the central German administration which had been hope-
fully planned at the Potsdam parley. Four-power wrang-
ling over methods continued to stall its establishment.
So this first agency — the German Transport Directorate —
was set up under the Council of Minister Presidents of
the Laenderrat in the US Zone,
and its specific job was to super-
vise rail and water transport
through newly - organized civil
agencies in both fields. It was
also charged with transport re-
habilitation in the US Zone.

By June 1946, the Germans
had re-established administrations
in each form of transport, but
they were limping along under
the burden of denazification
which idled nearly all experienc-
ed personnel. Although real re-
sponsibility was in the Germans’
hands,occupation transport author-

William A. Fagan (right) receives a decoration for ities did much to prop the shaky

exceptional civilian service from Maj.Gen. George system and prevent its total

(1) German inland transport P.Hays, Deputy US High Commissioner, for his
Was to be established only to the Work as chief of the Movements Branch and de-
puty chief of the Transportation Group, Bipartite —
Control Office, and permanent chairman, Berlin
Airlift Coordinating Committee.

degree necessary to fill the de-
mands of the Occupation Forces,

APRIL 1950

breakdown.

*) Short haul: up to 50 kilometers.
(US Army photo) Long haul: more than 50 kilometers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Economic fusion of the US and British zones came into
being after General Lucius D. Clay issued an invitation
to all occupying powers to unify for recovery's sake.
Only the British accepted, bringing with them a similar
history of transport reorganization. Out of the merger
grew the German Executive Committee for Transport,
composed of transportation representatives from all eight
Laender of the two zones. This committee delegated the
job of management and operations to four German ad-
ministrations responsible for railways, inland water
transport, highways and highway transport, and mari-
time ports and shipping. The independent administra-
tions of both zones in these fields automatically ab-
sorbed each other.

At the side of this executive committee there evolved
in mid-1947 a coordinating body known as the Central
German Movements Directorate which each month
published programs for traffic movements. Such move-
ments were planned in coordination with required pri-
orities and to keep pace with industrial rehabilitation.

HERE WAS A substantial shuffling of Allied per-
sonnel too in the field of transportation, and bi-
partite panels were set up to form policy, interpret it,
and observe the progress of the two-zone transportation
convalescence,
There were three main goals of the bizonal endeavor:

(a) Insuring the maximum utilization of existing |
transportation facilities.

(b) Insuring removal of restrictive practices, res-
toring trade customs and procedures so that traf-
fic would eventually revert to its natural economic
routes,

(c) Observing and advising the German transport
administration in reconstruction, keeping such build-
ing in line with Military Government regulations.

ET US SEE how nearly these goals were attained.

To up the efficiency of transportation, plans were
generated to insure maximum utilization of the available
capacity. Occupation authorities launched a system of
priorities for goods in line with the daily needs of Ger-
man citizens and with the overall industrial and physical
recovery of the nation.

To lubricate the rusted and ill-coordinated system of
inter-European traffic, the US Zone associated itself
with the European Central Inland Transport Organiza-
tion (ECITO), an international body whose objective was
to hasten the recovery of all Europe's transportation.
Member countries formed an international movements
committee to investigate international traffic require-
ments and to cooperate in the face of an almost com-
pletely disorganized transport system throughout the
continent.

Other committees were set up by the ECITO, A Wagon
Repair Working Party was formed to assist in repairing
and maintaining rolling stock; a Wagon Exchange Com-
mission was inaugurated in Paris to assist in the return
of rolling stock dislocated by the war; a European Rail
Car Census was taken and a car pool formed with a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

view to maintaining a car exchange balance between
member countries.

This organization has since been replaced by the
Economic Commission for Europe.

The US administrators trod close to the line they had
inscribed for themselves in the field of international
traffic. They insisted upon complete freedom of naviga-
tion on the Rhine and Danube rivers, and exerted their
influence to abolish whatever practices tended to re-
strict trade. The US likewise championed free inter-
national transit along Germany's highways, and general
freedom for traffic in and out of the area. At present,
international traffic by highway is subject only to estab-
lished German law (those laws which also apply to
German trucks) and international conventions, the prin-
ciple for which has existed in Europe for many years.

OVIET-IMPOSED restriction on the flow of traffic and

goods from Berlin to the western zones sent Allied
pilots on the dramatic 462-day airlift which delivered
2,315,410 short tons of goods to the blockaded city.

Of the third goal — that of reconstruction — a dif-
ferent but coordinated story can be told in each of the
four divisions of German transport.

Germany's railways, like the other divisions, have
registered a gigantic upswing since 1945. All the tracks
which transected Germany before have been reopened.
Tonnage carried in the two zones was up 45 percent in
1949 from what it had been two years before. Average
time for car turnaround, at a high of 11 days in the
winter of 1946 and ‘47, plunged downward in succeeding
months and stood in 1949 at 4.5 days, a figure which
compares favorably with prewar days.

Of 62 railway bridges over the Rhine, Weser, Main
and Danube rivers, 54 have been permanently restored.
The rolling stock, particularly the freight car, situation
has been vastly improved through repair and new con-
struction. Highlight of this program was the purchase of
17,765 new freight cars from various European countries,
delivered in 1949, and the building of 12,000 new freight
cars in the same year in western Germany.

As a result, ever since 1949 the railways generally
have been able to meet all demands for movement of
freight traffic 100 percent.

HE RAILWAYS nonetheless have been harassed by

certain economic problems. At present, they are the
biggest single enterprise in western Germany, employ-
ing 537,000 persons. HICOG observers believe the num-
ber could be substantially sliced without impairing rail
efficiency, but the railroads have declined to do so, since
it would up the already huge number of unemployed in
the zones, and might cause significant political reper-
cussions.

They also carry extraneous financial burdens in the
form of pensions of many varieties, and an annual
“contribution” to the government of DM 175,000,000. Un-
profitable traffic — e.g., children and professional people
who obtain lowered rates — is required of the railroads.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 16 ---
It is such financial burdens which hold.up the giant
rehabilitation program which is deemed necessary. Re-
placement of worn-out tracks and a portion of the rail-
way cars was almost completely neglected during the
war years, so that the present high traffic rate cannot
keep up forever without an extensive overhaul.

Trucking has made significant inroads into the trans-
portation monarchy of the railroads. Although the rails
carry 60 to 65 percent of the tonnage for western Ger-
many, trucks have carved out their share. The capacity
of trucks, with their traillers snaking out behind, has
gone up tremendously since the war — there are more
trucks on the road now (300,000) than are needed for the
tonnage to be carried. Truck transport has had a post-
war advantage over the railroads, in that the price of
gasoline has but recently risen to a scale 50 percent
above that of prewar, while coal prices are up 130 per-
cent. Likewise, the truckers are not required — and can
not be compelled — to carry the unprofitable traffic im-
posed on the railroads.

At any rate, the trucking fleet has inflated itself to
its present size from 150,000 vehicles — just half of the
number on the roads today. In 1945 these vehicles carried
approximately 7,000,000 tons of cargo in short hauls, and
20,000 tons in long hauls. At present the trucks move
more than 12,000,000 tons per month in short-haul traffic
and 300,000 tons in long-haul traffic.

N 1945, THERE was no indication that inland water

transportation in less than five years would be ap-
proximating prewar traffic performance. Destroyed bridges
obstructed many waterways at the rate of one per mile
— some 1,014 bridges were destroyed of the 1,477 pre-
war bridges on the inland waterways of the combined
British-US Zones. Vessels were sunk and scuttled at an
even higher rate, clotting the intire waterways system.
By 1948 reconstruction had been accomplished so well
that potential capacity of the waterways was far ahead
of actual tonnage being moved.

The recovery of inland water transport can best be
illustrated by a comparison with prewar traffic perfor-
mance, which amounted to 62,000,000 tons of cargo, trans-
ported by that portion of the barge fleet now belonging
to the bizone. In 1945, movement of but 2,000,000 tons
was possible. This performance has been progressively
improved to 56,900,000 tons in 1949, of which 66 percent
was carried in German craft and 34 percent in foreign
craft.

There remain to be modernized and repaired approxi-
mately 60,000 horsepower of tugs and 620,000 tons of
barges. A program has been established to modernize
approximately 100,000 tons of inland waterway craft
per year during the five year period ending 1954.

Whereas in prewar days 90 percent of the waterways
craft were operating at a given time, today but 80 per-
cent are customarily underway, with 20 percent under-
going repairs. Current barge rates exceed prewar rates
by 80 to 100 percent, with little likelihood in the near
future of any reductions.

APRIL 1950

13

INAL CATEGORY of postwar transport to be ex-
amined is that of maritime ports and shipping.

By terms of surrender, all German merchant vessels
were turned over to the Allies for division among them.
The Allied Control Council reserved for Germany
200,000 deadweight tons of coastal vessels, which was
the tonnage agreed upon as necessary for the German
economy at the time. This gave the Germans a small
merchant fleet, consisting of motor coasters and steamers.

Average size of the craft is approximately 400 dead-
weight tons, the average age about 35 years.

Subsequently numerous small craft not previously
listed have been pressed into service which have raised
the total capacity of the German fleet to 300,000 DWT.

Yearly tonnages handled by this fleet have grown
from 1,026,666 tons in 1946 to 6,240,000 tons in 1949.

Although considerable progress has been made -in
rehabilitating north German ports, an unhealthy condi-
tion exists because these ports have been deprived of
their normal prewar hinterland traffic. This situation
will inevitably continue until such time as European
trade is restored to its normal prewar patterns.

German plans for.expansion of shipping and ship-
building operations cannot yet be consolidated because
of the limitations imposed upon shipping by the Washing-
ton Agreement on Prohibited and Limited Industries.

OOKING BACKWARD on the recovery of Germany's

transportation, we see the huge value lent to the job

by currency reform and by the European Recovery

Program. In looking forward, we see that continued

cooperation and hard work on the part of Allies and

Germans alike will be essential to move further toward
a sound, healthy transport system in Germany.

A twin objective stands forth: rehabilitating trans-
portation within west Germany so that it becomes once
again an influential instrument in the economic well-
being of all Europe, and is so organized as to bolster
the over-all objectives of peace, prosperity and free-
dom. --END

Courses Planned for Exchangees

US Information Centers of Hesse are arranging specific
courses to prepare German student and expert ex-
changees to the United States for their visit to America,
according to Paul G. Lutzeier, US Information Center
chief, OLC Hesse. The English language course offered
by the centers will concentrate on American pronun-
ciation, use of American idioms and current American
phrases.

Germany 4th in ERP Aid Grants

Western Germany received authorization to purchase
$26,600,000 worth of Marshall Plan goods during January.
January's authorizations bring the total to $828,200,000
since the beginning of the European Recovery Program
on April 3, 1948. Only three other countries—United
Kingdom, France and Italy—have received larger amounts
of Marshall Plan aid.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Mary Coppock (center), coordinator of work camp programs

of the Commission, distributes materials to young mothers.

lor, head of Commission, mold used to support leg casts.

Entrance to hospital where students did their work.

Orthopddische
Heil-u.Lehranstalt

der Innaren Mission

Kbinik — Schulen— Lehrwerkstaten

Carpenter works on wooden leg for patient
in hospital which Commission helped rebuild.

Student volunteers mixing cement for a drain.
They also painted, finished children's ward.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 18 ---
Kurtis Friend Naylor (center), chief of Brethren Service Commission program in Germany, and students explain
program to Kassel Resident Officer George -Vadney (second from left). Edson Sower, right, heads volunteer program.

r (bs

Fellowshi p of Love

By DR. LEROY VOGEL
Chief, Education Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLCH

ee THROUGHOUT the western zones of Germany
are private US welfare agencies which are making
vital contributions to HICOG's over-all program of re-
orientation. Unheralded and unsung, members of these
agencies are going among the Germans, spreading the
gospel of freedom and individual rights.

A good illustration of such activity is the work of
the Brethren Service Commission, though others in the
field, such as the Quakers, YMCA, YWCA, Unitarian
Service Committee, World Council of Churches, Caritas,
and the University of Chicago, have been doing good
deeds since the beginning of the occupation.

Beginning as a purely relief organization in Germany
shortly after the occupation, the Brethren Service Com-
mission has gone much further than ordinary relief. Prob-
ably their greatest achievement to date is their partici-
pation in the cultural exchanges program. They effected
the first exchange involving teen-aged German boys and
girls. One group of 90 rural youngsters has already been
Sent to the United States to live with middle class, rural

APRIL 1950

American families and to attend American high schools
in 15 different states. Another group of 140 is ready to
sail in May.

The Brethren Service Commission has provided homes
with American families, part of the travel funds, and $10
per month pocket money for the teen-aged Germans.

The author, Dr. Leroy Vogel (center), talks with student
volunteers and clinic physicians about their program.

--- Page 19 ---
Other similar groups are being readied for shipment to
the States at the present time.

All the youngsters will spend one year in a completely
American environment, and then will return to their
native country. The only hope of the Brethren Service
Commission is that when the young Germans do return
they will tell their friends and neighbors of America and
thus win more friends for the United States.

HE BRETHREN SERVICE Commission is the social

and welfare arm of the Church of the Brethren, which
was founded in 1708 in Schwarzenau, Germany, by Alex-
ander Mack. Forced out of Germany, the church and its
flock found its way to Germantown, Pennsylvania, at the
invitation of the Mennonites, who, in turn, had been invited
by the Society of Friends. With the slogan of “Fellowship
of love,” the church has grown to 200,000 members, with
congregations in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico
and China.

The members support six colleges, a soap factory, the
entire produce of which goes to relief, a relief processing
plant in New Windsor, Ind., which they donated to the
World Council of Churches, a group of missionaries, and
the social and welfare arm of the church, the Commission.

Though not officially organized until 1936, the Commis-
sion was active in the Spanish revolution, when it serviced
both the Loyalists and the Falangists. Since then the
members of the Commission, most of them student
volunteers, have been going wherever they have heard
the plea of help. They maintained their welfare activities
behind the Iron Curtain until they were forcibly driven
out by the communist rulers of the area, and even then
left only because they were afraid harm would come to
their friends in those countries.

In Germany, their entire program is under the direction
of six professional Commission workers, six student
volunteers, three paid secretaries, and the wives of two
of the professional workers. Kurtis Friend Naylor, director
of the German program, also serves as the administrative
assistant for the entire European program of the Com-

US High Commissioner and Mrs. John J. McCloy visil
Commission-sponsored “'Boys' Town’ at Kaltenstein Castle.

mission. His wife, as hostess of the Brethren house in
Kassel, serves almost 500 guest meals each month, and
practically mothers the six young student volunteers, as
well as her own two youngsters.

IHE VOLUNTEERS, three boys and three girls, all in

their teens, are probably the best loved foreigners
to have ever set foot in the great industrial city of
northern Hesse. As soon as they arrived in Germany,
in September 1949, they rolled up their sleeves and took
on rehabilitation projects, First off, they aided in the
construction of a work camp in Goettingen, and then,
immediately thereafter, started on a project of their
own, which they selected themselves: they found an
orthopedic clinic outside of Kassel that badly needed
construction help.

The clinic, caring for 88 patients, was being manned
by two refugee physicians from Danzig, who had moved
their clinic, patients, equipment and all to Denmark and
then down to Kassel. The young student volunteers began
clearing rubble, installing an open drain, working in the
clinic, holding recreation periods for the patients, and
then painted and finished the interior of a 25-bed chil-
dren's ward. On the physical-work side, the girls wielded

Student volunteer Wilma Kuns (left, with Dr. K. Goeritz) reaps benefils from work at clinic. When a once-injured leg

collapsed during her labors, doctors operated. At right, worker cheers up young patient in clinic ward she helped build.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

APRIL 1950

--- Page 20 ---
shovel and spade along with the boys. The students feel,
however, that their most vital contribution was the foster-
ing of friendship and understanding between Americans
and the staff and patients of the clinic.

Next, the students took over an old glider base and
helped convert it into a modern camp for 6,000 children.
They changed an old hangar into a day room, a feat that
involved the removal of 60 cubic meters of earth and the
laying of a cement floor. Again the girls did the manual
labor alongside their male colleagues.

Other Service projects include the sponsorship of DPs
to the United States. They are doing particularly yeoman
service since they sponsor people refused sponsorship or
neglected by other church groups. Especially, couples
of mixed religious marriages have been sponsored by
the Commission: 75 percent of the Greek Orthodox
emigrees have been backed by the Commission, and they
are the only known group to send Mohammedans to the
United States,

The Commission has also been most active in the heifer
project committee, which has distributed 11,000 head of
livestock to needy parts of
the postwar world. In 1949
a program to supply Ger-
many with fresh milk by the
introduction of tubercular-
free cattle was started. This
project donates a heifer to a
local citizen, who, in turn,
must give the calf of this
heifer to another farmer.
Twelve goats and 373 heif-
ers, of 1,200 projected, have
already arrived in Germany.
When the blockade of Berlin
started, German drivers could
not drive supplies to the be-
leaguered city. Since Allied
nationals were still permitted
entry to the city, the student volunteers took over the
driving of trucks from Bremen, and then on to Berlin with
urgently needed relief supplies.

During the past year, the Commission sent about 300

workers of Kassel.

“Boys' Town’ citizens study useful trades. Here they are
shown in garage of home, studying automotive repairs.

APRIL 1950

Mary Coppock (center) distributes clothing to needy
(All photos by PRB OLCH or BSC)

Construction work didn't end students’ work at hospital.
Here they visit youngsters in ward they helped complete.

tons of relief supplies to Germany. One-third of the sup-
plies has been food, another third clothing, and the last
third soap from their own factory.

The Commission also start-
ed, in cooperation with the
YMCA, the first private “boys
town" in Germany. Near
Stuttgart, in an 11th century
castle called Kaltenstein, the
Commission has organized a
home for “endangered youth,"
which houses about 100
youngsters who might be
heading for juvenile delin-
quency. The boys work in
agriculture and the work-
shops, which include ma-
chines, carpentry, shoe-re-
pair, bakery, tailor, and sign
painting. They have their
own self-governing body, with
a court and police department. The Commission representa-
tives to this project, Mr. and Mrs. Byron Royer, live in
the castle with the boys, and act as guides to the youths.

OUR WORK CAMPS were operated by the Commis-

sion during.the past summer, These camps built a
community house and sports field in addition to having
Americans and Germans live together, with Americans
paying a dollar a day for the privilege of working on
a project.

Most important of all, according to the personnel
representing the Commission in Germany, is their daily
contacts with Germans in all walks of life. The Com-
mission members emphasize that they have no church
in Europe and that they are doing no missionary work
here. They are here solely because they believe in the
“fellowship of love, and because they have an abiding
faith in that system we call democracy. They are
Americans who want to paint the American picture for
the world. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Bet i é

Berlin's giant Titania Palast theater was crowded with people (right) who brought gifts for Soviet concentration camp
victims. At left, gifts are sorted and classified before distribution to the Soviet persecutees.

(Photos by DPA)

“Mach Mit” -- At RIAS

BY FRED G. TAYLOR
Director, RIAS

NEW TWIST to radio “give away’ pro-

grams was inaugurated by the American
operated station RIAS in February when thou-
sands of gifts ranging from cash and clothing
to offers of marriage and blood transfusions
were collected from west Berliners for distri-
bution among returnees from Soviet Zone con-
centration camps.

In lobby of theater, all ticket holders were asked to con-
tribute goods or money to the caus (Pollaczek photo)

The program, a special benefit quiz broad-
cast, was staged in Berlin's huge Titania Palast
and was participated in by well-known per-
sonalities from film, theater, cabaret and radio.
Tickets for the performance were completely
sold out within two hours and all purchasers
were asked to bring with them gifts of cloth-
ing, food, or household or toilet articles to aid
several hundred political prisoners recently
released from the Soviet camps at Buchenwald
and Sachsenhausen.

Large crates were set up in the lobby of the
theater into which ticket holders dumped their
gifts while special telephones were installed
on the stage and at RIAS to accept the hun-
dreds of calls from listeners offering assistance.

ET PROCEEDS of the ticket sales and all
of the prizes, contributed by Berlin firms,
were turned over to the ‘Fighting Group
against Inhumanity" and its director, Dr. Rainer
Hildebrandt. This group has since undertaken
distribution of the thousands of gifts received
and reports that several hundred victims of
communist oppression were directly benefited
as a result of the broadcast quiz show, “Mach
Mit’ (Join with Me).
At least 50 RIAS employees contributed the
equivalent of one working day in unpaid over-

APRIL 1950

--- Page 22 ---
time to insure the success of
this production and all musi-
cians and artists appearing on
the program voluntarily con-
tributed their services.

Offers of assistance were still
being received three weeks after
the broadcast. The latest compi-
lation of assorted gifts totals
13,421. Additionally, 3,672 DM
and 648.80 East marks were con-
tributed, of which 2,275 DM re-
sulted from ticket sales.

A breakdown of the gifts, by
number and category includes:

328 offers of food and gro-

gifts of tobacco.
7 gifts of toilet articles.
525 offers for medical, den-
tal and optical services, includ-
ing two offers of blood trans-

an offer of a mov-

to move 10 tons of
household goods to western Ger-
many without charge.

70 offers of book and maga-
zine subscriptions.

7 offers of apprentice and job
training.

13 offers of temporary em-
ployment.

1,100 articles of clothing.

206 miscellaneous gifts, in-
cluding five offers of marriage

and one canary!

63 offers of stationery ar-
ticles.

61 offers of tools and machi-
nery.

Dr. Hildebrandt, in accepting
the many contributions and in
thanking RIAS for this demon-
stration of public service, prais-
ed not only the material assis-
tance thus rendered but also the
morale encouragement which

‘h a community action gave
to those unfortunate people
who either still are or have
been victims of Communist op-
pression. + END

APRIL 1950

Berliners smile as they look over gifts contributed to
victims of Soviet oppression. Gifts poured in for weeks.

Above, news cameras caught famous stars of RIAS benefit.
Below, numerous gifts included food, clothes, toilet articles.

--- Page 23 ---
Youth Organizations Developing

70 PERCENT INCREASE in membership in youth or-
A ganizations since 1946 is one of the most encouraging
developments in Germany, according to Lee S. Wilson,
retiring chief of the Youth Activities Section, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG. Mr. Wilson returned in mid-
January to his post as field executive of the San Francisco
YMCA after a year's leave of absence in Germany.

Mr, Wilson indicated that although much progress has
been made in youth work and leadership training during
the past six months, a great deal remains to be done before
programs and projects which will meet the needs of Ger-
man youth can be considered adequate.

“Ninety percent of young people leave school at the
age of 14," Mr. Wilson said, “so that responsibility of
training for citizenship falls heavily on youth organiza-
tions, and on other out-of-school informal, educational and
leisure-time programs."

Present membership in organizations, he pointed out,
includes from 25 to 30 percent of persons between the ages
of 10 and 25. However, Mr. Wilson stated, present pro-
grams do not reach a significant proportion of the un-
employed and unorganized youth of Germany, nor do they
provide adequately for thousands who are homeless and
wandering — many from displaced and refugee families.

According to a survey made in October 1949 approxi-
mately 510,000 youths in western Germany between the
ages of 14 and 18 years are out of school and unemployed.
Housing, finances and nourishment of the 123,000 students
in universities are wholly inadequate.

Mr, Wilson also stated that while some progress has
been made in cooperative planning by county and state
youth committees, sound and comprehensive community
programs that cut across separate interest and denomina-
tional lines are needed, In this connection, he cautioned
against recent efforts of prominent youth leaders to con-
duct leadership training programs solely by individual
organizations rather than by all representative groups
within a community. He warned that such training would
tend to overemphasize the ideologies of particular groups.

According to HICOG figures, present membership in
organized groups, based on special interests, is as follows:
Sports, 33 percent; Catholic, 27; trade union, 14; Protestant,
14; cultural, 3; Falcons (SPD Falken), 3; Friends of Nature,
3; Boy and Girl Scouts, 0.9; hiking, 0.7; Free German
Youth, 0.7, and miscellaneous, 0.7.

R. WILSON URGED that all young people in Germany

be provided with certain fundamental opportunities,

in which be included: basic education, vocational guidance
and training, useful employment, medical care, oppor-
tunity to develop their own philosophy of life and religious
convictions, opportunity for creative use of leisure time.
“To the extent that a large segment of the young popu-
lation is denied these basic rights," said Mr. Wilson, “just
so will the health and vitality of the nation as a whole
suffer. These problems can be solved by youth, by inter-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

ested citizens, and by government officials working to-
gether. The alternative to such cooperation is a state-
devised program, with all its dangerous implications."

According to Mr. Wilson, continued and wider contact
of German youth with other nations will be provided
through the 1949-1950 exchanges program.

N SUMMARIZING the more important American-spon-

sored achievements during the last six months of 1949,
Mr. Wilson listed:

Nineteen international work camps in which more than
300 German young persons joined with an equal number
of representatives from the United States and other coun-
tries from Europe.

Participation by 60 German students from the US Zone
in English harvest camps during October and November.

Three hundred German youth leaders sent to other
countries of Europe for training,

Six thousand youth leaders participated in HICOG-
sponsored youth training schools.

Attendance of youth officers of all western zones of
Germany in regular inter-Allied youth officers conferences.

Self-help programs which have developed 359 youth
homes in western Germany serving 15,640 homeless and
wandering youth. To meet the youth unemployment pro-
blem, this program has established 268 voluntary youth
training centers serving 7,900 youth.

Conferences to discuss and formulate a plan for long-
term professional training for publicly-employed youth
leaders.

Meeting of 42 youth leaders who had visited the United
States under the 1949 exchanges program to discuss how
their experiences might be used in meeting German
problems. + END

American and German reorientation specialists hold a
panel discussion at Haus Schwalbach in Wiesbaden, during
the two-week seminar on reorientation held by the Field

Operations Division, OLC Hesse. At left are Susan
Burson, Women's Affairs expert, and Linton Lovett, pro-
gram analyst, OLCH. (PRB OLCH photo)

APRIL 1950

--- Page 24 ---
Police Reform

By JAMES L. MeCRAW
Chief, Public Safety Branch
Internal Political and Governmental Affairs Division
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

HE STORY of the Nazi police force and the wrongs it
T perpetrated needs no recounting. Well-known to all
were its excesses in imposing the will of government
upon the German people, its complete freedom from any
control except its own hierarchy, its unlimited power to
enact its own rules and serve as its own judge.

These were the things which needed immediate cor-
rection when the American armies entered Germany.

Military Government undertook at once the complete
break-up of the Nazi police organization — the curbing

of unrestricted power and the prohibition of abusive prac-

tices. No one, German or Allied, questioned the need for
these changes.

Although some German governments — those of the
Weimar Republic and earlier — were in many respects
democratic, Military Government recognized that they
held within them the seeds from which grew the Nazi
state and its all-powerful police organization. Police prac-
lices abetted the Nazi government in disregarding the
will of the people and eliminating the people's control
over their government.

Among those earlier practices were the tendencies to-
ward militarism in organization, training and operations.
While the German police enjoyed a certain public respect,
it was respect engendered by reverence for power and
not a respect that came from pride in police as members
of the community. Police practices and attitudes were
autocratic, Even the police uniform was designed to create
the impression of importance; the "shako” helmet worn
by the policeman gave him an exaggerated appearance
of size and sternness. The concept of “police was one
whereby police were agents of the state, rather than
servants and protectors of the citizen.

"[RADITIONALLY, THE police possessed certain legis-

lative and judicial powers, as well as somewhat ex-
cessive executive powers; there was no corresponding
system of checks and balances to prevent such powers
from being abused. A multitude of governmental functions
lay in police hands, giving a measure of control over the
everyday activities of every German citizen. Performance

The author is seated at left in this photo showing German
Police officers studying traffic control problems in Kala-
mazoo, Mich. Left to right are Mr. McCraw; Ernst Binder,
Bavarian Rural Police; Oskar Riester, chief, Mannheim
City police; Howard Hoyt (seated), chief, Kalamazoo
Police Dept.; Erich Ehlert, Berlin police; Herbert Becker,
Wiesbaden police chief; Franz Noch, Bremen police chief;
and Ludwig Weitman, deputy police chief, Munich.

APRIL 1950

of these functions, added to his excessive power and the
lack of proper public concept of police, made the police-
man an official to be feared and avoided, and certainly
not one to seek for helpful assistance.

Military Government policy in the initial reorganization
and subsequent control of German police agencies had
therefore a dual purpose. Not only would it eliminate the
immediate evils of the Nazi period, but bring about con-
ceptual changes which would return the police to the
control of the people. Military Government wanted to
make it impossible for the police later to assume un-
reasonable powers or to deal in activities not related to
peace and public order.

It was through the imposition of regulations that Mili-
tary Government brought into being the new order in
the German police. These regulations did not contemplate
a police system copied from the United States, but re-
presented what was considered an ideal rearrangement
of police in the German community, in a way to insure
democratic police organization and practice.

OWEVER WORTHWHILE these changes may have

been — however essential they were to the establish-
ment of democratic community life and government —
they could not fail to be unpopular with the German
police, because they were the imposed regulations of an
occupying power,

Many of these changes, however, were similar to
changes being inaugurated in democratic countries
throughout the world. Although Germany's police had
once been recognized as technical leaders in their pro-
fession by policemen of the western world, the police,
like the people of Germany, had been long isolated from
contact with non-German people or with modern develop-
ments in the police profession. All their efforts had been

--- Page 25 ---
slanted towards the creation of a powerful Nazi state, and
world developments in their profession passed unheeded.

F THE OBJECTIVES of the occupying powers were to

be attained, and a democratic police system to be
perpetuated, it was obvious that they must be accepted
voluntarily by both police and people. The Germans
would have to see the problem objectively and bring to
bear an enlightened viewpoint on the reasons for these
radical breaks with tradition. This could only be accom-
plished by renewing the German contact with the outside
world, and with the democracies whose police served as
practicing examples.

The generosity of America's government and taxpayers
made possible the travel of Germans to the United States
and other democratic countries to observe community life
and governmental practices. It also made it possible for
citizens from those democracies to visit Germany and to
exchange views and experiences with the Germans. Under
these exchange programs, German police leaders and
American and other foreign police leaders have been
able to visit each other.

Eight German policemen have now gone from the US
Zone of Germany to the United States, and five Americans
and six British police leaders have visited the police of
the US Zone in Germany. It is to be hoped that visits of
many more can be arranged for the future under the
HICOG exchanges program.

In these visits to America, the German police have been
able to see and study a working democracy. They have
seen the good and the bad. They learn that there are
yet many undemocratic practices in the organization and
operation of American police, They also see that those
problems are being attacked and the faults corrected by
a free, progressive, well-informed citizenry. They learn
that many of the principles advocated by the Americans
who imposed new systems upon them are sound, and that
the acceptance of these principles will be of real benefit
to Germany and its people. They find a concept of the
role of police in community life and government different

Military and German policemen search room in Jugoslav
DP camp in Munich during raid by 508th M.P. Company.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Wiesbaden’s chief of police,
Herbert Becker, pins number-
ed badge on Policeman Paul
Degenhard — the first time
in German history, it is be-
lieved, that a police adminis-
tration voluntarily initiated
the wearing of numbered
shields, Becker crusaded for
the introduction of numbered
badges following a tour of
study in the United States
with other police officials.
Becker triumphed over the
opposition of city police of-
ficials who stubbornly clung
to the contention that only
convicts should be numbered.

from any they have known in Germany and come to
realize the importance of bringing about changes in their
own system.

IHE GERMAN ANALYSES of the American system of

government, of community life and police practice
are often critical, One German policeman visiting an
American police department spotted no less than 25 viola-
tions of the Military Government rules which had been
imposed on his own German police department. He was
critical of the failure of the Americans to practice what
they were preaching but before his visit was ended, he
saw malpractices being corrected and he became an ad-
vocate of most of the principles involved,

He realized that while some of the rules of the Occupa-
tion Forces in Germany were related solely to the need
to demilitarize Germany and were therefore arbitrary,
the majority of those applied to the police forces would
cause changes which were essential if Germany were to
establish and perpetuate a democratic type of government.

There are many examples of the benefits which have
accrued from these visits. Many seem to be of minor im-
portance in themselves, but taken as a whole show a
trend toward a new concept ‘of police and their place in
the community. Many of these examples cannot be
directly related to the experiences of the German police
who visited abroad because while the idea may have
come from abroad, it has been changed to fit local con-
ditions or needs and is not recognizable as a copy of
anything foreign. There are many examples worth noting.

ENERALLY, GERMAN police have objected to the

wearing of numbered badges. Many considered the
wearing of a number as placing them in a category with
imprisoned criminals or concentration camp inmates. In
America a German police chief saw the numbered police
badge treated with pride. It was a method of readily
identifying the policeman to the public, thus making him
individually responsible for his actions, but it was none-
theless a badge of honor.

Upon his return to Germany one German police chief
adopted in his department the use of the numbered badge.
He did not impose it arbitrarily upon his men but by
explaining its purpose in terms of what he had seen in
the US, he obtained the acceptance of the new badge by
his policemen and by the community. (Continued on page 28)

APRIL 1950

--- Page 26 ---
Midway with ERP

By LUCIEN AGNIEL

Assistant Information Officer
ECA Mission to Western Germany

UROPE TODAY — at the midway point in the Mar-

shall Plan — is like a man recovering from a long
siege of sickness. The fever is down, the patient is walk-
ing again and has even returned to work. But he isn't
fully out of danger. The goal for the final two years of
the European Recovery Program is to restore that patient
to robust health.

As ERP turns in April into the second half of its exist-
ence, member countries are taking inventory. They are
going over the books, comparing their economic position
today with 1948. They are also appraising the job ahead.

Looking back, it is sobering to realize how desperate
was the German and European position in the postwar
period before the Marshall Plan. Those recent hardships
are still etched in the minds of Europeans.

There was, first of all, war's devastation. There was
dislocation of transportation, critical lack of raw materials
and general exhaustion.

In addition, there were frontier restrictions and trade
barriers which hobbled Europe's productive capacity and
export ability. Europe was tired, ill and without hope.

In short, Europe, and most of all, Germany, had reached
the point where want produced more want. Without fertil-
izer the soil could not produce enough food. Without
sufficient food, the miner could not produce enough coal.
Without enough steel, there were not enough railroad
cars to carry coal to run the steel work to make more
rail cars,

This was the endless spiral of want in Germany and in
all of Europe, This was the swaying scaffold of Europe's
economy in the year 1947.

Pree FOLLOWING US Secretary of State
George E, Marshall's famous offer of help at Harvard,
June 5, 1947,* came fast. One after another, the western
European democracies banded together in the European
Recovery Program.

Soviet Russia was quick to say “nyet’ to Mr, Marshall,
and also cast negative votes for her satellites, including
Czechoslovakia, which previously had voted an embarras-
singly premature “yes.”

The democracies met in Paris in July. And their first
action was to invite the military governors of the four
zones of Germany to take part in the discussions. The

* See “US Proposal for Europe to Help Self‘ in Information Bulletin,
Issue No. 99, June 30, 1947,

The tailway station at Furth i. Wald, where 75 freight
Cars, bought in Czechoslovakia for western Germany,
were delivered. Funds came from ERP. (OLCB photo)

APRIL 1950

three western Zones accepted. The East voted “nyet’’
again.

In the spring of 1948, Congress passed the Foreign
Assistance Act, which established the Economic Cooper-
ation Administration. The sum of $5,300,000,000 was made
available for the first 15 months. Western Germany got
$514,000,000 — more than one and one-quarter million
dollars a day for the appropriation period.

There were no strings on the dollars. Germany, like
other ERP members, used the aid in any way so long as
industrial and agricultural production was increased, sub-
ject to ECA screening.

HE DOLLAR TRANSFUSION had the desired effect.

With more raw materials, the industrial plant began
to operate’ faster. Coal production rose steadily. Thanks
to currency reform, German money once again could buy
sorely needed goods — goods which began to appear in
the shops in the first summer of the Marshall Plan.

And the aid dollars were working twice for recovery.
The direct dollar funds bought foreign goods and equip-
ment which couldn't otherwise be purchased, Then the
German consumer or producer bought the American
material for Deutsche marks. The resulting Deutsche marks
went into Germany's counterpart fund.

Last fall, the first of the counterpart marks went to
work for German recovery. They went to railroads, pub-
lic utilities and port reconstruction. Shortly before Christ-
mas, more counterpart marks were allocated for power
plants, agriculture, housing and capital investment.

Meanwhile Germany's progress in the European com-
munity was marked by still other evidence. In the second
Marshall Plan year, Germany became an acknowledged
member of ERP. The German Federal Republic concluded
a bilateral agreement with the United States under the

--- Page 27 ---
Marshall Plan, established its own representatives in the
United States and sent delegates to the Organization for
European Economic Cooperation in Paris.

ODAY — AT THE HALFWAY mark in ERP — Ger-
many and all of western Europe must face even bigger
problems — productivity, integration and liberalization.
These are the words which must be supplanted by deeds
if Germany and Europe are to stand alone by 1952.
They are words which ECA-Administrator Paul G. Hoff-
man, roving Ambassador W. Averill Harriman and West-
ern Germany Mission Chief Robert M. Hanes have used
again and again in describing the tasks ahead.

Today Germans and Europeans are having a close look
at these three words — and in the order named.

Productivity first. It stood to reason that it was of fore-
most importance for the ERP countries to produce more
and more. Production was and is the key word in the
recovery sentence. But productivity in the ERP sense,
was more than willy nilly increase in output, The pro-
duction had to be planned to fit the over-all requirements
of western Europe — it means selling the right goods in
the right market at a lower price. It also means, in some
cases, that ERP countries may be asked to set aside
chances of immediate profit for the long term gain of
general recovery. This also leads logically to the second
word — integration.

Thus far, integration has. been the big stumbling block.
A long time ago, Marshall Plan trade experts took a close
look at the movement of goods in Europe. What they saw
was a Europe divided geographically into small economic
bodies, each of which behaved as if it could be economi-
cally self-supporting. At the same time, the experts saw
that most of these would-be separate entities had dollar
gaps.

American Farmer's Friendship Tour inspects Marshall
Plan hybrid corn at Frankfurt farm during Europe visit.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

N GERMANY, for instance, the difference between what

Germans must buy and what they can sell to the dollar
area proves the old system cannot survive after outside
help ends.

The Marshall Plan, therefore, has used the third word
— liberalization. The Marshall Plan has said to Europe:
pull down internal economic barriers and form a large,
single economic unit. Liberalize your trade. Let it be
possible for German automobiles to be sold in England
and Italy and France without tariffs and restrictions which
now keep European trade shackled. Let French wines be
sold freely in other European countries, along with British
textiles. Let surplus Scandinavian electric power run
machines for other countries. In short, form yourselves in-
to a single community —a single market with 275,000,000
customers.

In simple words, ERP asks European countries to pro-
duce and distribute as a single country.

No one, however, not even the most rabid supporters
of Marshall Plan economics, under-estimates the difficulty
of the task. To overcome the historical traditions and
weight of centuries, European statesmen must exert pro-
digious effort to form the Western Union. The alternative,
however, is unthinkable. Without economic cooperation,
the countries of western Europe would face growing eco-
nomic and political isolation. Each country would find it
necessary to impose more traffics and more restrictions
on imports to protect its trade balances when Marshall
aid ends. In the end, this temporizing treatment would
weaken all who accepted it. The western democracies
would then become lonely, impoverished islands — easy
prey for communist agitation.

But it isn’t entirely up to Europe. The second major
outlet for European production is the United States. Un-
less American taxpayers are prepared to give Europe
goods indefinitely, a way must be found to let Europe
earn the dollars she will continue to need after 1952.

ORLD TRADE cannot exist on a one-way street.

This “Tale from Hoffman” merits sober considera-
tion by all Americans. One of the most important con-
tributions America can make to European recovery. is
buying more European goods. The more goods America
buys from Europe, the more goods Europe can buy from
America. Progressive Americans are determined to help
Europe close the dollar gap by buying more European
goods.

Administrator Hoffman points out frequently that the
amount of goods Europe must export to America before
she can pay her own way comes to less than one percent
of our gross national income.

“By no stretch of the imagination,” he says, “can our
absorbing that one percent of goods hurt us. As a matter
of fact, by buying more of each other's goods, both Europe
and the United States stand to gain from increased pro-
duction and lower prices. The net effect is certain to be
a mutually higher standard of living for people on both
sides of the Atlantic.”

APRIL 1950

--- Page 28 ---
Germans have much to offer the American market.
German precision instruments, toys, cameras and optical
equipment are famous in the United States. But the goods
must be offered for sale in the American tradition and
at competitive prices. The German export drive, recently

* announced by the Federal Republic, will find a receptive
market among Americans.

ERMANS HAVE BEEN quick to grasp the western

European problem, They can look around and see
what has happened here in the first two years of the
Marshall Plan. They can see the results from the raw
materials, food, machinery and industrial equipment which
have come into western Germany.

They can see the results of the millions of marks in
counterpart funds which have gone into housing, agri-
culture, power plants and coal mines.

They know that ERP’'s Technical Assistance Program
has sent German experts to America to study agriculture,
plant protection, industrial methods, scientific techniques.

It now remains for Germans and Western Europeans,
moving forward as a single community, to help them-
selves in the next two years by forming a single, self-
sufficient market. +END

Bibliography of ECA Articles

Articles previously published in the Information Bulletin
concerning the Marshall Plan, Economic Cooperation Adminis-
tration program and European Recovery Plan include:

Bizone's Participation in ECA Program, statement by Paul G. Hoff-
man, No, 148, Nov. 16, 1948.

Challenge to Europe, statement by Paul G. Hoffman, December
1949,

Comments Continue on Marshall Plan, German editorials, No. 104,
Aug. 4, 1947.

Delivered ECA Goods Total $68,000,000, No. 152, Jan. 11, 1949.

Development of the Marshall Plan, No. 129, Feb. 24, 1948.

ECA Agreement, US-German accord with text, February 1950.

ECA on Tour, pictorial, March 1950. ‘

ERP Called Great Historic Deed, German editorials, No. 134,
May 4, 1948,

ERP Freight Cars from Czechoslovakia, No. 149, Nov. 4, 1948.

ERP — and Germany's Opportunity, No. 134, May 4, 1948.

ERP Tobacco Cuts Black-Market Price, No. 159, April 19, 1949.

American tobacco comes to Germany under the Marshall
Plan, Retained at Bremen warehouses, it is auctioned oft
from time to lime to cigar and cigarette manufacturers.
Tobacco, en route, loses its moisture, is shown as il comes
out of steam pressure tube in Bremen. (JS Army photo)

European Recovery Program, report by Paul G. Hoffman, No, 158,
April 5, 1949.

Future ERP Aid, statement by Paul G. Hoffman, No. 169, Sept. 6,
1949.

Germany's Role in European Recovery, statement by William H.
Draper, Jr., No. 141, Aug. 10, 1948.

Hope Continues in Aid Plan, German editorials, No. 141, Aug. 10,
1948.

Marshall Plan and Western Germany, The, No. 129, Feb. 24, 1948.

Marshall Plan — Course of Law, pictorial, No. 139, July 13, 1948.

Organization for European Economic Cooperation, article by
Major Gordon L. C. Scott, No. 163, June 14, 1949.

Praise for Marshall Plan, German editorials, No. 100, July 7, 1947.

Reparations Revision, No. 160, May 3, 1949.

Review of ERP Aid, report by Norman H. Collison, No. 154,
Feb. 8, 1949.

Ruhr Coal and European Recovery, report by US economists,
No. 113, Oct. 6, 1947.

Ruhr— Vital to Recovery, The, article by Robert R. Estill, No. 141,
Aug. 10, 1948.

Soviet Prophecies on ERP Backfire, No. 136, June 1, 1948.

Telling What ERP Does, article by Arthur Settel, No. 116, July 26,
1949.

Tourist “Dollar Drive,‘ February 1950.

Tourists from Mid-West See Germany, No. 158, April 5, 1949.

US Proposal for Europe to Help Self, text of Harvard address by
Secretary of State Marshall, No. 99, June 30, 1947,

Eight New Shorts Available To Resident Officers

Eight new films for use in HICOG's reorientation
program have been released to US resident officers for
showing at German community meetings, according to
the Education and Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

Most of the films, including those concerning other
countries, are produced in the United States and are
teviewed, translated and synchronized in HICOG’s film
laboratory in Munich. A few are produced in Germany.

Titles and descriptions are as follows: “Life with
Junior" (18 minutes) details the responsibility of parents.

“California Junior Symphony” (19 minutes) presents
one of California's school symphony orchestras.

“Land of Enchantment” (25 minutes) shows the New
Mexico landscape and some Indian tribal dances.

APRIL 1950

25

“Men and Machines” (18 minutes) is an informative
picture of technical developments and their tendencies.

“The Doctor” (14 minutes) is based on the theme that
devotion to the well-being of all who ask for his assist-
ance is the guide of the country doctor.

“Treasure House” (17 minutes) deals with the history
of the origin of the Smithsonian Institute in Washington
and suggests the outstanding and varied activities it
sponsors in all fields of science.

“According to Plan” (10 minutes) shows the importance
of blueprint in providing a clear, understandable and
simple way for the engineer to communicate his ideas.

“The County Agent’ (15 minutes) shows how the far-
mer can rely on his county, how to work more efficiently
and to adopt new scientific methods in his daily work.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
T TOOK PLENTY of courage — and shoe leather — to

walk from Breslau to Berlin, but Kurt Stiller has mus-
tered enough of both, in the four years since his journey,
to become a business success in postwar Germany.

Kurt Stiller is a refugee from Polish-administered ter-
ritory who, selling what little he had salvaged in his
flight from Breslau, began a tiny shoe-repair shop that
blossomed into a 2,500-pair-a-month shoe factory. He used
what he had— courage — and it brought giant rewards.

Stiller's present plant in Berlin is not the American
ideal in factories. It is located on the fourth floor of a
building that has been otherwise largely decimated, and
has been braced and chinked laboriously into habitable
office space. But it is still far removed, in terms of com-
fort, from the poverty and tiny shop in which he started.

Before 1945, Kurt Stiller was co-director of one of Ger-
many's largest shoe manufacturing plants in Breslau. He
prospered from 16 years of labors in the shoe business.
But in January of war's final year, his prosperity, his
home, his business went out the window, as the Nazi-
initiated ruin swept back onto his city.

Stiller, granted eight days’ leave from taking up
arms against the Soviets. went to Berlin, but did not
return. His wife, too, fled Breslau in a mass exodus of
women and children, Less than two months after the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

German capitulation on May 8, 1945, Stiller set out from
the home where friends harbored him and his wife, and
looked for work. His wife agreed to keep the books for
him and be his assistant if he could launch a small shoe-
repair business for himself. The borough president of
Charlottenburg (a borough in Berlin's British Sector) as-
sisted him in obtaining use of a former shoemaker's one-
room shop, All his work had to be done by hand — there
was no machinery available. For the bits of leather and
nails he needed, he begged from former customers within
the city. The craft his family had known for years stood
him in good stead, and the word spread around Charlotten-
burg: ‘Bring Herr Stiller some old bits of shoes and he
will make you a new pair.’ His work was painstaking and
desperately needed.

RADUALLY HE WAS able to employ a helper, then
two. On Nov. 1, his: brother Arthur returned from
England where he had been a prisoner of war, and a half
year later, Arthur's family emigrated from Breslau to Ber-
lin. The whole family joined Stiller in his Charlottenburg
shop and with their help it grew. The tiny shop burgeoned
into three rooms and the cellar became a workroom.
Meanwhile, Stiller prevailed upon friends for cast-
off machinery, all of it damaged but repairable. When

APRIL 1950

--- Page 30 ---
sufficient had been accumulated, they began not only
to repair but to manufacture shoes. In the cellar work-
shop, a staff now grown to 20 pieced together children's
footwear, and enough money was collected to hire first
floor living rooms of the building they occupied. The
former quarters where Stiller lived in the building were
transformed into a workshop.

In the beginning of 1946, the borough undertook a vast
relief action, to make and distribute shoes to barefooted
school children, None of the shoemakers in the area had
sufficient materials to meet the need. So Stiller hazarded
a trip into the country, buying up leather and corollary
shoe parts, hauling them with great risk and difficulty by
truck back to Berlin. He split it up with other shoemakers.

The excellent job of the Stiller crew during this intra-
city relief project earned them help in getting the larger
quarters they now occupy. The four story building was
cracked and windowless, in large part burned out. The time
had come for Stiller to sell what little he had salvaged
in his flight from Breslau. His brother and family turned
over their possessions, including wedding rings; he sold
his photographic equipment and what remained of his
wife’s jewelry, smuggled from Breslau in the hems of
dresses. The lot netted 30,000 Deutsche marks (then $9,000).

HAT WAS THE START of their capital; a half-year
ago they received DM 50,000 credit through the city
council. With these funds they have had repaired four
spacious rooms on the fourth floor of their building, and
bought the precision machines needed for turning out
shoes. These rooms are sheltered and warm, but open
onto windswept, caved-in chambers to which their repair
funds could not stretch. It is now their hope to obtain a
DM 90,000 credit under Marshall Plan provisions to sal-
vage more space from their piece of war's wreckage.
Kurt Stiller today is not a wealthy man. The machinery
in his shop is old, the quarters shabby, the output small.
Yet he has managed to eke out a surplus from his relative

A workman pauses for lunch at the work bench where he
soles UNICEF shoes sorely needed by Berlin's children.

Shoemaker Kurt Stiller stands with brother Arthur (right)
before shoe press in factory he founded four years ago.

prosperity and to help out those who, as he had, are try-
ing to find their way back to productive lives and security.

With the help of occupation officials, he was able to
bring 10 professional shoemakers and old associates from
Breslau. More found their way to him from that city, so
that today two-thirds of his present 60 employees are
fellow refugees and craftsmen from the East. For them
in their poverty he was able to rent four big houses, in
which from four to five families each are living.

The output of his factory now stands at 2,500 pairs of
shoes per month, many of them the quality men’s shoes
for which his Breslau factory was famed. But a large
portion of these shoes — a total order of 15,000 — are
being made specifically for needy children under a city-
managed contract with the United Nations International
Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF). His profit on such
work is not large: he bid competitively for the order when
the Berlin City Council agreed to buy UNICEF shoes
for its ill-clad children, These shoes cost the city but
nine marks ($2.14) per pair, since UNICEF provides, free,
the tops, soles and inner soles for their manufacture.
Many of these shoes go to children who, like Stiller
himself, are refugees.

Stiller, the refugee, who has mastered not only the
giant problems that beset him but is helping others in
their struggle, has trained his vision on more prosper-
ous days. Today he has 85 percent of the machinery he
needs, hopes to purchase the remaining 15 percent from
ERP funds. He wants to step up production to 4,000 pairs
of shoes monthly by midyear, eventually to reach 7,000
with 100-120 employees. -+-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Building Rate Spurred

Y THE END of the Marshall Plan in 1952, western

Germany's housing construction rate is scheduled,
according to present plans of the German Federal govern-
ment, to reach a minimum of 300,000 new family-type
dwelling units annually, Dr. Karl F. Bode, chief of the
Program Division, ECA Special Mission to Western Ger-
many, announced. During the next two years, ECA
counterpart funds will play a big part in achieving this
goal.

The number of new dwelling units planned for 1950
is 250,000, against approximately 200,000 completed in
1949. There is an overall shortage of 4,000,000 to 5,000,000
dwelling units at present in western Germany, Dr. Bode
said. If the scheduled increased rate for 1952 is maintained,
more than 15 years will pass before the housing shortage
is overcome.

The country’s present building capacity is estimated
at more than 300,000 new dwelling units annually. Build-
ing materials and experienced workers are in adequate
supply, but the chief limiting factor for reaching full
construction capacity is lack of investment capital. There
also is considerable reluctance to go all out for the most
efficient methods of house construction.

IHE RECENT RELEASE of DM 81,500,000 of. ERP coun-

terpart funds to housing will assist in financing the
construction of approximately 40,000 dwelling units. Each
dwelling unit costs approximately DM 10,000, of which
about 20 percent is lent from ERP counterpart funds.

In explaining the Federal Government's housing pro-
gram for 1950, Dr. Bode stated that it will require invest-
ments amounting to approximately DM 2,500,000,000. This
sum must be made available from public funds, the capital
market, private sources and ERP funds.

To carry out the 1949 housing program, which resulted
in 200,000 new dwellings, expenditures totaling from
DM 1,900,000,000 to 2,000,000,000 were made. Of this total,
DM 1,000,000,000 was made available from public funds,
DM_ 500,000,000 from means provided by the capital
market, and DM 400,000,000 from private sources, includ-
ing loans granted by tenants.

For the 1950 housing program, according to the federal
government's plans, public and private capital will be
activated by the following measures: (1) Granting of tax
advantages for building purposes; (2) liberalizing the laws
on placing mortgages for new construction; (3) taking over
by public authorities of guarantees on junior mortgages;
(4) encouraging of savings for building purposes by grant-
ing advance payments on concluded contracts with build-
ing and loan associations; (5) granting of interim credits.

N POSTWAR YEARS, housing has. become so difficult
that it cripples the working capacity of a large share
of the population, Dr. Bode said, adding “Thousands of
workers must travel long distances between homes and
factories. Vacancies in old and new industrial centers

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

often cannot be filled because it is impossible to provide
workers with accomodations, even of the most primitive
kind. All this is particularly true for the 8,000,000 refugee
population, whose great potential abilities must not be
allowed to run to waste."

Dr. Bode emphasized that European Recovery Program
targets cannot be reached within the next years if there
is no essential and lasting improvement of productive
capacity. In this connection the improvement of housing
conditions is of decisive importance.

(Continued from page 22)

Police Reform

The Germans were greatly impressed by the close re-
lationship and great good will which existed between
the American citizen and the policemen and the efforts
of the police to retain and increase this good will. There
are examples today in Germany of the new German police
trying to establish this same relationship. One sees Ger-
man police assigned to elementary schools to lecture the
children, to obtain their friendship and eliminate the
“bogeyman” concept of the policeman, to teach them of
the role of the policeman as their protector and his need
of their cooperation in obeying the law and preventing
crime.

XECUTIVE ORDERS have been issued which impose

greater restrictions upon the police than are required
by law in holding arrested persons in detention without
charge or hearing, the making of searches without war-
rants and the use of police weapons in the pursuit of
criminals. There are campaigns being conducted to take
the police problems to the people to obtain their interest
and support. There are many evidences of police perform-
ing ordinary acts of kindness and charity to change the
public concept of the policeman. There is the adoption
of the system of reporting police problems, needs and
accomplishments to the people of the local community
through local community councils.

Without exception the German police leaders who have
had these contacts abroad have a changed attitude to-
ward the occupying authorities and toward the principles
which they advocate. Without exception each has spread
his knowledge by giving public addresses to the public
and to professional police groups, and by writing articles
for publication in newspapers and magazines and tech-
nical police publications.

The German police of today are becoming more demo-
cratic and leaders who are bringing about these changes
are to be praised. Much yet remains to be done, however,
if the new concept is to be wholly accepted and made
permanent. The best means to accomplish this is to con-
tinue aiding the German police and the German people
to feel the need for changes, and through broadened ex-
periences, to find ways of accomplishing them. + END

APRIL 1950

--- Page 32 ---
D

Road B

to Health

By LT. COL. WALTER R. de FOREST

Chief, Medical Affairs Section
Education and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG

NE OF THE THORNIEST problems
confronting US Public Health of-
ficials in Germany today is the proper
organization of the medical, dental and
pharmacist professions and their rela-
tionship to the German social structure.
At present extremists with totali-
tarian tendencies closely resembling

This review of public health in
Germany from 1945 to 1949 is a
digest of a speech made last Octo-
ber by Lt. Col. Walter R. de Forest
on “Public Health in Germany dur-
ing the US Occupation” before the
American, Public Health Associa-
tion in New York.

LONG THIS LINE the cultural ex-
A change program, among others,
has assumed increasing ‘importance.
Through this plan German public health
officials are being brought abreast of
the best and latest developments in
public health matters by the sending of
German public health representatives

those of the Nazis are again attracting

a large following among the health professions, exercising
a rapidly growing influence and squeezing out of important
positions honest democrats and persons considered “too
friendly to the Americans.”

Concerted efforts will have to be made immediately to
strengthen the hard-pressed democratic element in the
German health professions before its position becomes
hopeless. The Office of the United States High Commis-
sioner for Germany should scrutinize the political impli-
cations of all orders directly or indirectly affecting health
service, refrain from steps likely to defeat the purpose
of democratization, and do everything in its power to help
the Germans solve their own health problems according
to their proven needs. After four years of occupation and
with the shift of emphasis in our program from one of
operations to re-orienting the Germans to develop more
democratic institutions, many steps already have been
taken to strengthen these democratic elements.

to the United States for study and
observation. American doctors, nurses and other experts
in numerous health fields have been brought to Germany.
In addition, the Institute of Public Affairs, through its
Medical Section, is helping to spread democratic tech-
niques in health administration as well as up-to-date
knowledge in the fields of medical science.

In assisting the German medical profession to get back
on its feet, Military Government collaborated extensively
with international health agencies such as the World
Health Organization; the Danish Red Cross Tuberculosis
Mission whereby 586,000 German children have been
tuberculin tested and 208,000 vaccinated to date; and the
United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
(UNICEF) bringing additional assistance for the care of
mothers and children in Germany.

Under State Department control and the further with-
drawal by Occupation Authorities from operational func-

Germany's road back to health has been solidly paved with cooperation from international health groups. The Danish
Red Cross, cooperating with the Public Health Branch, is continuing its inoculation program in the US Zone: ai left,
Dr. Viskum of Copenhagen applies test ointment while Bavarian health official holds the youngster. Right, girls in a

small one-room school near Dachau await first examination; they'll get two tests and one inoculation.

APR.
IL 1950 29

(Photos by PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
tions and with the development of a centralized German
Public Health office at Bonn, our Public Health office is
focusing its efforts toward the development of modern
German public health service and better medical care
through the Reorientation Exchange Program, the pro-
motion of medical education, both by fostering in-service
postgraduate training and through the development of
up-to-date schools of nursing and public health.

German medical libraries are being built up to cover
the gap that occurred during the war and postwar years
by procuring medical text books and periodicals to cover
this period and through the use of a widespread micro-
film reader service.

LTHOUGH UNSOLVED problems still face occupation

health officials, the more immediate ones which con-
fronted Military Government in the days following the
close of the war have been fairly well dissipated.

Up to 1948 the occupation job in Germany was to
maintain the public health both for humanitarian reasons
and to protect the health of the occupying forces, Bombed
and partially destroyed cities, damaged water supply,
crowded dwellings, and hundred of thousands of home-
less displaced persons, refugees and expellees made the
possibility of serious epidemics likely.

Immediate surveys showed shortages in hospital facil-
ities, inadequate supplies of linen and bandages, and
shortages of medicines. Hand in hand with the redevelop-
ment of German public health went the reopening of the
pharmaceutical plants, the allocation of materials for
hospitals, and the denazification of the health professions.

While contagious diseases did increase, these increases
were not alarming and were held in check by inoculations.
Water systems were repaired, chlorination provided and
warnings issued to boil all drinking water.

The two most serious problems facing occupation pub-
lic health officers were the food supply shortage and
attendant malnutrition and the rapid increase in venereal
disease which directly affected the health of the Occupa-
tion Forces.

New pharmaceutical plants and hospital equipment
advance German fight for health. Child here is treated for
TB of the bone, skin and brain with new drug. He is patient
in Mammalshoehe Children’s Tubercular Clinic, Hesse.

(PRB OLCH photo)

IHE FIRST PROBLEM made necessary a continuous

appraisal of the nutritional state of the population.
A street weighing program was inaugurated by American
personnel and later carried on by the Germans. Under this
program approximately 100,000 persons selected at ran-
dom were weighed each month and from changes in the
observed weights it was possible to evaluate the broad
trends. In the second quarter’of 1947 the lowest point
was reached with the average weight of adult females
down to 118.7 pounds and of adult males to 134.5 pounds.
However, with the’ feeding programs improvement oc-
curred and it became apparent by Jan. 1, 1949, that this
program was no longer necessary and was discontinued.

Nutritional Survey Teams, first American and later
German, functioned in those areas where it seemed they
might be most needed and periodically surveyed the nutri-
tional status in cities of more than 25,000 population and
in the Western Sectors of Berlin:

The problem of the rapid rise in the venereal disease
rate reached its peak in August 1946 with rates for syphilis
of 30 and for gonorrhea of 90 per 10,000 population per
annum. US Public Health branches combatted the VD
problem with every available resource although it was
not until spring of 1947 that it was possible to obtain
adequate penicillin supplies from the United States and
Great Britain to start a vigorous campaign for treatment
of VD in conjunction with a control program with the
German authorities. However, the downward trend in
venereal rates, apparent by September 1946, was brought
about by the importation of penicillin and the setting up
of 96 VD treatment hospitals.

This control of venereal diseases was considerably im-
plemented by the passage on a quadripartite basis of
Control Council Directive 52 which is bringing about the
passage ofa uniform and modern venereal disease control
law throughout western Germany.

ACK OF ADEQUATE food and the high incidence of
diseases brought the German population to its lowest
ebb with indications of excessive morbidity. Even in the
face of these conditions, the birth rate which at its steepest
decline was 16.3 per 1,000 population per annum in the
fourth quarter of 1947, as compared to the United States
average of 24.6 per 1,000, was increasing and the total
mortality rate, which at its peak was 15.4 deaths per
1,000 population per annum, as compared to the United
States average of 11.1 per 1,000, was decreasing.

By 1948 the State Public Health Departments were func-
tioning satisfactorily, medical supplies, including strep-
tomycin, were becoming more available, hospitals had been
repaired and hospital bed space was meeting demand.
The increase in quantity and variety in the food supply
had overcome the problem of malnutrition and with it,
many accompanying problems. The tuberculosis mortality
rate declined and is approximately the same as the present
rate in Great Britain and well below the prewar rate in
France and other parts of Europe. Birth and death rates
are approaching the normal, and school children are
healthy. + END

APRIL 1950

--- Page 34 ---
“What Do You Think?”

By DR. LEO P. CRESPI

Chief, Reactions Analysis Branch

Information Services Division, HICOG

Was sind momentan Thre groessten Schwierigkeiten und Sorgen? —
What are your greatest cares and worries at the present time?

INCE THE EARLIEST days of the occupation this

inquiry has prefaced the efforts of a busy corps of
interviewers to find out from the German people their
opinions on the significant social, economic and political
affairs of the day. To date hundreds of thousands of
Germans from all walks of life have been given an
opportunity to have their say. And the results in the
form of charts, tables and reports have continuously
been made available for the guidance of occupation
policies. ‘

In the good democratic tradition, occupation officials
were quick to perceive the value of knowing how their
charges — the German people— reacted to the measures
that were being taken to restore their economic well-
being and to bring them back within the community of
nations. Occupation leaders turned to the relatively
new science of public opinion surveying to provide
them with a thermometer, so to speak, by which they
could chart the hoped-for recovery of the German
patient.

The German people, despite their odious traditions of
the spy and informant, reacted well to the opportunity
to state their views. Since the beginning the great bulk
of those questioned have indicated appreciation of the
opportunity to tell their story. Only a negligible pro-
portion have expressed the feeling that no good purpose
is served by such public opinion inquiries.

It should not be too astonishing that appreciation
should be widespread for surely it is the first time in
history that an occupied people — even the meanest
among them — have been cordially invited by their
occupiers to express their views on current problems
and their criticisms of current policies.

ANY PERSONS believe that it is a simple matter to

measure public opinion. One simply goes out on
the street and wanders around for a while tagging
Vatious individuals for interviews. On the other hand,
there is the view of some that measurement of public
opinion is exceedingly difficult and to speak for the
German public, for example, would require nothing less
than interviewing each and every German citizen, The
development of survey science shows. that it is neither
So simple nor so complex to get accurate measures of
Public opinion. But for worthwhile results definite pro-
cedures must be followed in respect to whom among the
Public are questioned, and how they are questioned.

APRIL 1950

oi

Whom to question among the 18,000,000 German
citizens living in the American zone* to obtain a true
picture of public opinion, is the problem of sampling.
Probability theory, as well as a wealth of experience,
shows that you don’t have to count every bean in a

‘barrel to find out, for example, what proportion is black

and what proportion white. Examination of a hundred
randomly drawn beans will give the basis for a good
guess — and with a couple of thousand beans an estimate
can be made, the chances of which being seriously off
are remote,

People, of course aren't beans — they differ more than
white and black — they differ in age, sex, income level,
religion, etc. But the same principles of probability
theory apply. The opinions of one or two thousand
persons can be taken as rather accurately representative
of an entire population. But only if they are properly
chosen. Interviewers can't go around choosing mostly
women to question, or mostly young people, or mostly
educated people, or only their friends. In fact, it is best
if the interviewer has no choice in the matter whatsoever.
It is best if, like the beans in the barrel, respondents are
chosen completely at random — utterly by chance — if
the sample is to be truly representative of the population
within a known margin of confidence.

iD GERMANY, to the great good fortune of the polling
operation, it has not proved difficult to obtain a good
random sample of the populace. Food ration card lists
contain the names of all Germans who are legitimate
residents of the American zone. Whenever a statistician
sees such a complete listing of the population to be
studied, his mouth waters, because he knows that ob-
taining a good sample in such cases demands very little
more than selecting every nth name in the list, and
imstructing interviewers to contact those particular
persons. In the United States such listings are not
available for national sampling, and consequently
compromises have occasionally to be made, which along
with other difficulties may conspire to produce an
occasional error like the recent presidential forecast.
As German food ration card lists are located in all
the villages, towns and cities of the American zone of
occupation, the sampling procedure followed by the
Reactions Analysis Branch has been first to select
localities at random (except that major localities are

% Reactions Analysis Branch also conducts surveys based upon
similar principles in Bremen and in the western sectors of Berlin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Ja
Nein

always included), and then random names from the
ration list or lists in that locality. However, there are
a number of complexities in this sampling process which
may be bypassed in this article for the sake of simplicity.

Once the names of those to be interviewed in order to
get a faithful miniature of the German public are known,
the task is to question these persons in an objective,
standard way. Here the problems arise of devising good
questions, and of selecting and training good inter-
viewers to put them properly to the respondents.

Constructing good questions is a much more difficult
job than the uninitiated would suppose. We all know
enough to avoid a query like the classic: “Why did you
stop beating your wife?'’ But once beyond obvious biases
and suggestive elements, the task of question formula-
tion is anything but a simple art. One says art here
because considerably more semantic research will be
needed before question construction can be looked upon
as having achieved the status of a science.

N THE AMERICAN survey operation in Germany,

over and above the usual difficulties of question-
making is the problem of two languages — questions must
be asked in German but are conceived and reported
upon in English. It is unnecessary to expand upon the
difficulties of finding equivalent expressions in the two
languages. One check on the accuracy of translations
which is often useful, is to have one German assistant

tvanslate the query from English to German and
another — quite independently — translate back. If the
results are not equivalent the indication is that more
work is needed.

After a battery of questions is devised which appears
relevant to the problem under investigation, and which
have been purified as far as possible from biases and
semantic difficulties, the questions are then subjected to
a pilot test upon a small number of respondents to check
whether or not in fact they behave properly — i., the
language is readily comprehended, is unambiguous, etc.

Once it is known what and whom to ask, who then
are going to do the asking and what procedures shall
they follow? This is the problem of interviewing — per-
haps the most sensitive in the whole operation of
surveying because of the inescapable human element.
That is to say, the interview is a delicate relationship
between two persons who are almost always strangers
to one another,

The process of developing friendly rapport — without
which no interview is really a success —is nota simple
one. It demands real skill to put the respondents quickly
at ease and create the permissive atmosphere that pro-
motes full and candid replies. It demands even greater
skill on the part of the interviewer, once a friendly
relationship has been established, to avoid injecting in
any way his own values into the answers. This means
that the interviewer though outwardly responsive must

Opinion surveys (samples shown below) must be clear, call for simple answer. Each is given a test run before it is used.

-3-

dseser

ber 1939) a7,

ton Ste

“'> trogen wuende, gu

were Volt hegon §:
he Gefuehlo?

f

Ja sWete andare
Yolic hegen S$
Nein": Ye. rus a
Then an | freumschafthicho
2
ees ss08 yo
fo nee tant =
sonst ON est
pelt & wegender Karte ist R
: x en angogeben; welches d
= tia yet. sgeichnet, nach Ihror Ne:
3. Ye rilantsche Yolk aa bes

--- Page 36 ---
The author, Dr. Leo P. Crespi (center) presides at discussion
of question making and phrasing for survey — the first step.

not give the slightest indication of approving or dis-
approving of any point of view regardless of his own
beliefs.

Also in hearing and recording the answers he must
be very careful to report what the respondents actually
mean and say —not what he may expect them to mean
and say. The interviewer has become an artist at, his
trade when he can give the impression of discussing
when he is only recording,

Intensive and continued training of the interviewing
staff is necessary in any country, particularly in Germany.
This is the case because the permissive interview situa-
tion wherein a person — whatever his social level — is
allowed freely to voice his opinions whether the auditor
thinks them good, bad or indifferent is relatively foreign
lo German habits, particularly in recent times.

A Sere” which occasionally arises in connection
with interviewing, is what assurances are there that
the German people are truthfully answering the queries
put to them. This is a fair inquiry as the Germans have
had unfortunate experiences with questioners and
questioning generally, and hence might be expected to
be somewhat other than cooperative with interviewers —
particularly representatives of the American occupation.

Since the beginning the interviewers of the surveys
staff have taken great pains to assure respondents that

2

Interview with housewife in representalive middle-class
home (her name was drawn from food ration card list).

APRIL 1950

the inquiries are entirely anonymous and that a candid
expression of opinion would give their views a hearing
in the formulation of American policy. General ex-
perience, as well as specific studies, have indicated that
the German people appear to take the interviewers at
their word — that far from a difficulty in getting respon-
dents started in talking, the problem is often to get
them to stop.

And from the opening surveys there has never been
any dearth of criticism of Allied policies, often stated
in the strongest possible terms — thus suggesting that
the bulk of the respondents react to the interviewing
situation as one wherein they may candidly express
their real sentiments.

Among the technical studies conducted by the Re-
actions Analysis Branch has been one in Berlin in which
the same questions were put to comparable German
samples, in one case under the usual conditions of
American sponsorship and in another case as represen-
tatives of a native German polling organization, It was
found that’ on the bulk of the inquiries answers given
under American sponsorship conditions did not differ
significantly from answers given under conditions of
German sponsorship, thus suggesting that the fact of
American sponsorship was not introducing any bias.

On a few questions, particularly those touching directly
upon American prestige, as for example “Do you ap-
prove of German girls going out with American soldiers
or don't you like it?’ it was apparent that a few re-
spondents were inclined to be more favorable in their
answers to a representative of an American office than
they would presumably have been to an interviewer
from an independent German agency. In general, however,
the sponsorship effect was not large and, more im-
portantly, once known it can be readily allowed for in
interpreting results.

ITHOUT GOING into detail, it is well to emphasize
at this juncture that the stage of analyzing and
interpreting the results of survey operations is a most
crucial one if the studies are to be of real value in the
occupation, It is in this analysis with the aid of machine

Man of the house obliges while wife prepares dinner, In-
terviews are conducted in German, translated into English.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Geographic Spread of Standard Poll |

The US Zone map shows the complete geographic

spread of the standard 3,000 case population

sample used by Reactions Analysis Branch. Each

point on the map is a community in which inter-
views are made,

KASSEL @
Say S 5

4

Straight lines subdivide the states into operational
areas which are covered by field units.

© MARBURG
+
+

eciessen +
————SWETZLAR_+

+.
agania og
4” @ FRANKFURT
Gay aBADEN Oo HENBACH
4 "4
Ay LJ
FeDARMsTADT +

cca

 SCHWEINFURT
+\+ +

@ BAMBERG

@ WUERZBURG

+\ +

a

@ ERLANGEN * ; si
MANNHEIME
EEE oe © Te NUREMBERG
y
KR
wu ERTTEMBERG-
© @HEILBRONN 3a +PANSBACH + BAVARIA
ca + +
KARLSRUHE va a: t
+e yr 2.UDWiGsBURG 4 Ee @ REGENSBURG
PrN uticarT? — SCHWAEBISCH-GMUEND aA 74
+4 +e GOEPPINGEN ere
.

sage * INGOISTADT

a
eA re

e LANDSHUT

Community
Size Groups, Population

@ —25,000 and over
4, — 5,000 to 24,999
FY
>

+ LANDSBERG

— 2,000to 4,999

— under 2,000 © KEMPTEN

INFORMATION BULLETIN 34 APRIL 1950

--- Page 38 ---
tabulation and statistical techniques, that the effort is
made to break the masses of data into useful generali-
zations and hypotheses about German attitudes and
behavior. It is here that the professional training of the
opinion analysts comes to its sharpest focus to separate
wheat from chaff; to ascertain the significant from the
insignificant, the fundamental from the superficial.

The chief importance of all this interviewing and
analysis of the German people is the filling in of the
whole picture. Most occupation agencies and observers
in Germany tend to have by their nature a doctor's
attitude. That is to say, they are in considerable part
attuned to finding out what is wrong with Germany so
that they may suggest or institute remedial measures.
This natural preoccupation with problems, like a doctor
who sees only symptoms, may lead to overestimation of
German maladies, unless it is balanced by a larger view.

The importance of a wide perspettive on German
developments was underscored in a recent survey of the
extent of nationalist sentiments among the German
people. Many observers were convinced that the launch-
ing of the West German republic had precipitated a
renaissance of German nationalsm. Some observers saw
it in the heavy volume of anti-Allied criticism that
marked the election campaigning. Others inferred it from
what seemed to be an upsurge in anti-Semitic incidents.
Still others saw it in the campaign stress upon the
necessity for German unity and the demand for resto-
ration of former German lands. Attempts to minimize
Germany's responsibility and defeat in the last war — as
in General Halder’s book — also seemed symptomatic of
a general rise in German nationalism.

To check whether these campaign incidents actually
denoted increased nationalistic feelings among the rank
and file of the German people, the Reactions Analysis
Branch initiated a survey study. A representative samplé
of approximately 3,000 persons in the US Zone, 500 in
Berlin, and 300 in Bremen, was interviewed on a ques-
tionnaire designed to tap trends and present attitudes
in the various kimds of sentiments that had been focused
upon as areas of nationalism-inspired upsurges. Omitting
details for the sake of brevity, the study revealed no
evidence of any recent increase in nationalistic feelings.

Tn fact, whatever changes had occurred in the trend,
inquiries were without exception in the direction of a
decline in the extent of nationalist attitudes. So with the
whole picture filled in — through survey methods — what
seemed like a general rise in German nationalism was
more correctly perceived to be no more than nationalist

minority groups making a din so loud as to sound like
Vox populi.

ie LARGER view that survey studies yield doesn't

always indicate that the patient is not so ill as
widely believed. It may reveal that a particular condition
18 more severe, rather than less. A recent example of
Such an outcome of a public opinion inquiry arose in
Tespect to the extent of German political interest. Many
Observers took considerable heart over the widespread
turnout of voters in the Bonn elections of August 1949.

APRIL 1950

35

Humor ist, wenn man trotzdem lacht!

Guten Abend, ich mache eine kleine Gallup-
Umirage. GehGren Sie zu den Leuten, die eine
Menge Geld mit sich rumtragen?"

Aus der Weltwoche

“Good evening, I'm making a little Gallup poll.
Are you one of those people who carries a
Jot of money around with him?’ — Cartoon in
“Frankfurter Neue Presse’ suggests the hu-
morous side of taking public opinion surveys.

Individual political interest and initiative is, of course,
indispensable to the success of any democracy, and
here it seemed that the German people were revealing
an ample supply. But a wider perspective as filled in by
survey studies showed that in its full outlines the
picture was not nearly so reassuring.

Asked “Are you yourself interested in politics, or do
you prefer to leave that to others?’ more than six out
of 10 in the American zone indicated the latter pre-
ference, More than seven in 10 said that they would
refuse a request to hold a political job in their com-
munities. Despite the large election turnout the study
revealed that barely more than half (56 percent in the
zone) knew which party had garnered the most votes.
Less than four in 10 could correctly identify Dr. Aden-
auer, who had then just been named chancellor of the
republic. And large majorities were unable even to ad-
vance a guess as to the aims of the leading German
political parties.

Is opinion polling in Germany only of value to the
guidance of occupation policy or does it contribute
something directly to German democracy? There is
every indication that the latter is the case. The practice

(Continued on page 64)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Ruins of a Deutsche Post housing settlement in Stuttgart
as it looked early in February 1949, with rubble cleared.

Stuttgart housing unit after six months of reconstruction
by Deutsche Post. Buildings rose on the old foundations.

i it wi d this spring.
Model of new housing settlement as it will look when completec SE
Settlement features scientific layout of buildings for maximum lighting efficiency.

A modern apartment house unit completed in 1949 for Deutsche |
buildings were designed to blend with style of architecture in the

mn. \E..° .

Che Mailman

German Postal System Solves Shortage by
By THOMAS

Communications Branch, Industry Divis

ie ONE OF THE most aggressive housing projects yet undertal
cation system (Deutsche Post) is rapidly filling the basic dw
the difficult housing situation prevailing in the western zones,
With 12,700 apartments already completed the postal sys
within the next five years. By the end of last January, 5,940 of the
This positive Program was initially undertaken in 1946, pr
materials and the ever-decreasing value of the old Reichsmark tl
currency reform in June 1948. With the spur of monetary reform,
and procurement of materials and labor evaporated almost overni¢
9,700 apartments had been completed and the monthly productio~
was building nearly five Percent of the total hopvetru in the Pes
Out of the total of pas 116 na~ resented investme’
rent Deutsche Post receipts; pM BO uted from funds of thi
and the remaining DM 14,000,000 icine housing shortage, the
to the Federal Republic's widely Pub’ 0

assis ernment’s press: roble 11
tance to the German gov pressing problem as we
n

i i sf
ing units below are typical 0
pase Geet urgent demand for housing

--- Page 40 ---
st personnel at Delmenhorst, Land Niedersachsen. The apartment
djoining areas. (All illustrations provided by Deutsche Post)

Gets A Home

Building New Houses for their Employees

E. NELSON '
n, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

n in the Federal Republic, the German postal and telecommuni-
ling requirements of its 276,000 employees and helping to relieve

mis planning construction of an additional 31,000 apartments
ga tional units already were in various stages of construction.
vrency reform. Under the difficult handicaps of lack of
1 lagged with only 3,000 apartments constructed before
ye program hit its stride and the problems of inflation
currency reform and January 31, 1950, approximately
to more than 600 units. In 1949, the Deutsche Post

rogran

upto the §end of January 1950, DM 76,000,000 came from cur-
ts from the }Provident (insurance) Society of the Deutsche Post,
various states and local communities. In its self-help approach
postal and telecommunication system is contributing valuable
‘s improving living conditions for its own staff and their families.

efforts of Deutsche

pace for personnel. symbole

F=)_ Number of dwellings required imm

HEB Dwellings completed.

[-) Total number of dwellings required.

ia Dwellings presently under construction.

Officials of Communications Ministry Hans Schuberth and
Georg Schmidt waich foundation rise on Frankfurt project.

45,000 5
40,000 Shmece dmb
30,000
25,000
20,000 a
bat
15,000
10,000
5,000 +
jediately. a:
wiNe Dak MGAGMe Jo JASON: Duly;
ee tate 1949: ———+ 1950

Housing Program
Totals (1946 - January 1950)

Budget Funds of the Deutsche Post .... DM 76,344,000

Invested Capital of the Deutsche Post
Provident Society (Versorgungsanstalt) DM 26,113,000

Funds of the building contractors
(Laender, Communities, etc.)......... DM 13,723,000

DM 116,180,000

(More Pictures on Page 38)

'

--- Page 41 ---
SAY

a

aA

‘Wa

Raising traditional crown over
new Hans Schuberth housing unit.

From top to bottom: digging
foundation for Deutsche Post's
Frankfurt project; progress on
unit after six weeks; buildings
take form after two months. Pro-
ject was begun in August 1949.

Picture illustrates the
, use of structural steel.

--- Page 42 ---
Berlin Women’s Club

HE BLONDE YOUNG woman in frontier pants shook
her head. “But there’s so much more to be done.”

A sweater-clad woman across from her replied, “Well,
it just proves something we've all heard many times.
Freedom is not something you have — it’s something you
fight for. You have to keep your eyes open constantly,
and when the time comes, get in there and pitch!"

This was casual conversation, amidst cooling coffee
and rich cheese sandwiches. This was the tag-end of a
committee meeting of the Americgn Women's Club of
Berlin. ,

Five members had shown up for the meeting of the
Committee on Youth and Student Projects. It was their
sixth meeting in five weeks — the sheaves of papers they
had tucked by the arms of their chairs contained final
.activity reports. The reports needed only the “ayes” of
120 club members —and continuing, vigilant work from
all on behalf of Berlin young people seeking democracy.

The committee was born against a background of
energetic welfare work which the American Women's
Club had pushed since its inception in 1946, The “social
diversion” for which the club formed itself had been
“diverted” almost exclusively into welfare channels —
sheets for hospital beds, shoes for barefoot children, food
and supplies for the sick, moral and material support
for Berlin's orphanages.

UT IN SEPTEMBER last year one of the club

members made a little speech. I was tremendously
impressed with the fact we had $11,000 in our treasury,
waiting to be spent. So I suggested it was time we went
beyond the realm of the purely charitable, and entered
into some activity that was helping to redirect German
thinking."

The chairman had herself a job. It wasn't a case of
“Let-George-do-it” that placed her at the head of her com-
mittee—it was simply obvious that she had done a
great deal of thinking on the subject, and had at tongue-
tip a number of suggestions for working projects.

Many of her suggestions were vetoed: scholarships or
visiting professorships were deemed too expensive; a
child guidance clinic, sorely needed, should await action
from the German women themselves.

Others were investigated, approved..More ideas as-
serted themselves as the little volunteer committee
Sought out its work: some means by which the Ameri-
can Women's Club of Berlin could give a financial or
moral boost to those elements of youth and student
activity which were genuinely democratic in their ap-
proach,

Such means were found. As the committee burrowed
its way through reports and investigatory sessions, it
found immediate needs which were called to the atten-
tion of clubwomen. The treasury obligingly turned its
Pockets out to the extent of $225 for the Wannsee Youth
Leadership Center, $238 for a Berlin Free University

APRIL 1950

39

residence center, $238 for the fledgling Free University
student union, and gave aid in furnishing the Haus der
Jugend, designed for all organized and non-organized
youth in the western sectors.

HE GROUP'S POLICIES grew up as the women be-

came better acquainted with their task. Spending
money became very much a background assignment.
Those projects where the Germans were helping them-
selves received highest priority. And the women found
their part was not in the field of ‘education — not
trying themselves to teach German youth how to think,
but merely underlining whatever of a positive nature
had already been launched.

There wasn't always time for talk or cheese sand-
wiches. What had been an “investigatory committee”
now became a permanent working party, and what had
been suggestions became vigorous activities.

Final translation of the group's proposals into con-
tinuing projects was made with the approval of a
number of reports given at the club’s February meeting.

Five sprucely dressed women put written reports be-
hind their backs, faced club microphones, and told their
luncheon audience the following stories:

(1) The Wannsee Youth Leadership Center could use
the continuing help of clubwomen. Founded to train
youth leaders for Western Berlin, the school has already
served more than 2,000 young people in its courses.
Coming from every segment of Berlin's population, these
young people have stayed at the school for an average
of 12 days studying handicraft, camping, social science,
discussion leadership, music and sports.

The school is administered by its own German board
of directors and its own faculty. Its aim, of course, is
to turn out qualified leaders for the 220,000 young
people of west Berlin. In addition to financial support
already given, the club was urged to lend the personal
touch whereever needed by volunteering to take part in
class work and discussions, and by voting more money
to finish up the job of physical rehabilitation it had
initiated.

(2) The Haus der Jugend is home base for the six or-
ganized youth groups in the city’s west sectors, and
is equally open to those young people who do not be-
long to any club. Last May it spurted off to an en-
thusiastic start, hosting as many as one and two thousand
young visitors daily.

Proving too expensive, it was closed down in spring,
and reopened in new quarters late in February. This
permanent youth center would bring together groups
and individuals of varying sympathies in the planning
of civic and cultural enterprises. Books, games, handi-
craft equipment and furniture were listed among the
immediate needs of the center, and $190 was asked from
the women’s club's plump treasury.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
(3) One of the outstanding examples in Berlin of youth's
opposition to controlled education is the Free University,
established by dissenters from the East sector's Fried-
rich Wilhelm University. Twenty-two of the young
women who attend, having left their homes in the East
zone and Soviet Sector, live together in a cooperative
residence at 8 Beerenstrasse.

Beginning with bare and paintless walls, 10 feeble
bedsteads and a pocketful of poverty, the girls and the
two women faculty members assisting them have
managed to scrounge furnishings, paint, plants and a
few pictures to make the best of low-standard living
conditions. The $238 already granted them from women’s
club funds has gone to the repair of the 10 original beds
and the purchase of 10 more folding beds. For other items
direly needed —a telephone, study lamps and an electric
iron or two—the committee asked allocation of $120.

(4) No money whatever was asked in carrying on a
program of general assistance to the struggling student
populace. The club had already given $238 for purchase
of a radio-phonograph which now occupies a prime spot
in the still new student union. (Establishment of the
student union came as the student's answer to the
threatened regeneration of super-nationalistic campus
societies.) But club member assistance was asked in the
human relations side of the program.

Help was asked in discussion groups between Ameri-
cans and German students. Magazines, books and
newspapers were asked for departmental reading rooms
within the Free University. And aid in using and
publicizing the student employment office was urged as
means to help the often penniless students to earn enough

money to continue their studies. ‘We'll tend children,
dogs or bar," they have said.

IHE WOMEN'S CLUB audience was no stranger to

such discussions, The women were accustomed to
welfare work. They distributed food and clothing in ‘46,
helped out in the polio epidemic of ‘47, staged generous
children’s Thanksgiving and Christmas parties in ‘48,
and in ‘49 distributed several thousand dollars worth of
sheets and diapers to Berlin hospitals.

They knew how to raise and administer money. Their
1947 Community Chest Drive had netted $31,000; the
sale of the Operation Vittles cookbook,* still being
vended throughout the zone, earned more than $8,000
in the first of two editions.

The afternoon's talk on porcelain was held up while
the ladies “showed their hands."

They voted their approval of the appropriations and
signified their interest in the participation aspects of
the recommendations. No one dissented. A number of the
women took notes on what their part would be.

Then they settled back to hear the speaker of the day.
But it was obvious, in the luncheon atmosphere of feather-
ed hats and chiming chinaware, that this club for the
“social diversion” of women in Berlin had found its calling.

As one of their spokesmen had said, “It all proves
something we've heard many times before. Freedom is
not something you have — it’s something you fight for."
And the American Women's Club of Berlin is ready, in
many ways, to “get in there and pitch.” -++END

% See “Operation Vittles’ in Information Bulletin, Issue No, 155,
Feb. 22, 1949.

Occupation Costs Budget for 1950/51 Drawn Up

The Allied High Commission transmitted March 10 to
the German federal authorities the estimates for occu-
pation costs and mandatory expenditures to be incurred
in the three zones of occupation for the fiscal year of
1950/51. These estimates, approved by the Council of the
High Commission on March 1, will be included in the
federal budget.

The estimated expenditures total DM 4,048,500,000 —
DM 544,900,000 lower than the estimates for 1949/50.
These figures include not only the three zonal budgets
but the budgets of tripartite organizations, such as the
Military Security Board.

Of the total of DM 4,048,500,000, DM 3,263,100,000 is
for occupation costs proper, i.e., expenses incurred by
the occupation forces and occupation authorities for
goods and services for the maintenance and welfare of
the Allied Forces stationed in Germany. Labor, rents and
utilities, transportation and communications make up
78.1 percent of this total.

Mandatory expenditures amount to DM 785,400,000.
These expenditures comprise DM 323,800,000 for Class I
mandatory expenditures, for example, services such as

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

maintenance of displaced persons, demilitarization, re-
parations and restitutions, which arise as a direct
result of the capitulation, and DM 461,600,000 for Class II
mandatory expenditures. Class II expenditures are, for
example, expenditures to provide the Occupation Forces
with new housing which will ultimately revert to Germany
when it is no longer required by the occupation forces.

The division of expenditure among the three zones of
occupation for the fiscal year of 1950/51 is as follows:—

UK Zone US Zone Fr. Zone Total
Occupation Costs........ 1,376.5 1,248.0 638.5 3,263.1
Mandatory Expenditures
Class I....... ee. eee 204.3 72.7 46.9 323.8
Class IT ............ 160.2 196.5 105.0 461.6
WILLEN Goodcos0dbsu Do bOGCO 1,741.0 1,517.2 790.4 4,048.5

The estimates for the UK Zone include DM 60,000,000
for tripartite organizations, including the expenditure on
the establishment of the High Commission in the Bonn
enclave, while those for the French Zone include
DM 25,000,000 for similar expenses.

The total budgets amount approximately to 20 percent
to 22 percent of the total federal and state budgets.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 44 ---
Women of North Germany

(OLLOWING THE GREAT loss of German men in the

last World War it is obvious that women must play
a more prominent part in the life of the country than
hitherto. The tendency in the past in Germany has been
to regard the expression of opinion through press and
radio as a male prerogative and where, in spite of such
exceptions as Louise Schroeder, deputy mayor of Berlin,
and Frau Teusch, state education minister in North Rhine-
Westphalia, there are no public figures comparable with
Eleanor Roosevelt, Lady Astor or Edith Summerskill.

In a country which has the highest percentage of women
as wage-earners in the family, women must take a greater
share of the responsibility for civic affairs and an active
interest in the life of the community. It is obvious also
that they cannot do this unless that they are educated to
that end. Women's Affairs Section of the Office of the
Educational Adviser CCG (BE) was formed to assist Ger-
man women towards self-expression and to advise them
through their organizations as to the best means of
achieving it.

Instruction has been given informally by teaching
women the work of a democratic group, by giving them
experience in voicing their opinions in public, electing
their own officers by free vote and serving as officers
themselves. This work has been considerably assisted by
exchange visits arranged with women’s organizations in
Western Europe and the United States, and by the work
of foreign experts in the fields of politics, social sciences,
administration, industry and journalism, who have given
their advice on the peculiarly difficult problems which
confront women in Germany today.

The international development of the women’s move-
ment has grown rapidly in the political and economic fields,
and this, in fact, has also shown the need for women to
accept responsibility as members of the community.

HE POLITICAL EXPERIENCE of German women can

be said to be on a relatively low level — low, that is,
according to British and American standards. Traditional
ideas have always influenced popular opinion on the
responsibility which can be assumed by women outside
the home, and these ideas have prevailed longer in Europe.
In the time of the Weimar Republic the status of German
women in public life was not assured, despite the fact
that adult suffrage over the age of 21 was granted in 1918
(10 years before such suffrage was

petition of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) to the main
committee of the Parliamentary Council in Bonn, to admit
women to equal rights with men under the Basic Law,
was defeated by a coalition of the Christian Democratic
Union (CDU), Christian Social Union (CSU) and Free
Democratic Party (FDP) by 11 votes to nine.

Economically, the status of German women is serious
because of the consequences of the war, consequences
which have not been confined to Germany but which are
aggravated by the large-scale destruction of houses, com-
mercial instability in the immediate postwar years, and
the refugee problem. War casualties have increased the
numbers of women who are wage-earners, not only for
themselves, but also in a number of cases for their own
families or their parents; this has led to competitive em-
ployment and a surplus of unskilled labor.

LTHOUGH WOMEN represent a greater percentage of

the labor force than formerly, very little progress has
been made in improving their working status. Opposition
to this has come not only from women themselves, who
have sometimes not wished to depart from traditional
lines of employment, but also from men. The question
has been further complicated by the rise in unemployment
which has, naturally, made employers less ready to modify
their employment policy in order to employ more women,
either on fulltime or parttime basis. The conservative
opinion of German employers has hardened on the ques-
tion of the employment of women and at the moment is
under no pressure to change.

Despite the outstanding success of a few women in
commerce and industry, it would be complacent to say
that the status of women had been raised by allowing
them opportunities to contribute in the industrial and
technical fields, as there is no hope of increasing the
necessary training under present circumstances. The result
is that following on their school training, the majority of
German women are trained in housewifery and relative
occupations, a means of employment which carries little
opportunity today.

There is still discrimination in the German educational
system, as the occupational schools have not encouraged
the technical training of girls. If they want to be employed
as apprentices in other than the traditional occupations,
they have a hard time for many master craftsmen refuse
to employ them even in professions

granted in the United Kingdom).
After 1933 women gradually lost
their social and political rights, with
the exception of the right to vote.
The right to be elected to public
office was only restored to them in
1945 following the Potsdam Agree-
ment, when full franchise and eligibility
to hold office was again granted. It
should, however, be noted that the first

This article, reprinted from the
Monthly Report of the Control Com-
mission for Germany (British Ele-
ment), is a brief survey of the
present position of women in Ger-
many and an outline of the various
aspects oi Women's Affairs in which
the British authorities. have en-
couraged German women to take
an active interest.

that have been officially opened up to
women, such as watchmaking, engrav-
ing and optics.

ERMAN TRADE UNIONISTS, while
aware of the problems involved
in the increased employment of un-
skilled female labor, have not ex-
panded their special training program
to any great extent, or supported

APRIL 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
sufficiently the work of the few exceptional women trade-
union organizers.

It is regrettable that the headquarters of the party
organizations still show a reactionary and unrealistic ap-
proach to the fact that women voters comprise the major-
ity of the electorate. The December elections in the
western sectors of Berlin showed the strength and deter-
mination of the women’s vote: 89.6 percent of the elec-
torate voted for the party lists; 63.5 percent of the voters
were women and 36.9 percent were men,

No political party in Germany, with the exception of
the Communist Party (KPD), has given serious attention
to the potential voting power of the women electors, and
sought to gain their votes by reasonable consideration of
their pressing needs in its election programs. Although
present electoral laws differ in the states all use a type
of closed list proportional representation which reserves
to party organizations in electoral areas the power of
nominating candidates.

The number and type of women chosen as candidates,
therefore, is determined solely by the party machine.
There need be no connection between the women
candidates put on the party lists and women’s organiza-
tions interested in a legislative program. Progressive
women have observed that often women elected on a
party list show even less interest than the men in
considering the legislative needs of the women within
their electoral areas.

EITHER THE Christian Democratic Union (CDU) nor
the Free Democratic Party (FDP) has any program
directed to improve the political education of its women
members, or to provide them with parliamentary training.
The Social Democratic Party (SPD) has a traditional
policy of placing women on its lists and in administrative
offices. There is a strongly centralized office located at
the party headquarters in Hanover, under the direction
of a women’s secretary. But out of 32 members of the
party executive only five are women, and it would be
rash to say their views did more than endorse the party
line. This office publishes a monthly periodical, Die
Genossin (The Woman-Companion), for women function-
aries which, however, is somewhat dull reading for the
ordinary woman voter. An annual women’s conference is
held to discuss and prepare the program for the com-
ing year.

Women are encouraged to take an active part within
the party program and are provided with training courses,
but the central headquarters discourages its members
from participating in programs sponsored by the in-
dependent, non-partisan women's organizations. This is
regrettable, for with their greater experience in conduct-
ing meetings and discussions, women in political parties
could do much to teach the non-political women by their
participation.

The Communist Party (KPD) has a definite policy of
placing women on the party lists and in administrative
posts. Courses are given to train young women in govern-
mental procedure. It encourages its members to partici-
pate in the independent organizations, where with their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A2

knowledge of committee work they are able to exercise
considerable leadership.

HE TRADE UNIONS have adopted certain steps to

meet the general problems raised in industry by the in-
creased number of women employees. A special women's
department with paid staffs has been set up. Regional and
zonal conferences to promote women's educational cour-
ses have been held and special courses have been held
by the unions for women, But these programs are often
dull and the younger trade-union members are finding
that the programs produced are too boring after a day's
work to warrant their continued attendance.

In addition to these political and industrial organiza-
tions, there are two principal confessional organizations.
These are the Evangelischer Frauenbund (approximately
50,000 members) and the Katholischer Frauenbund (121,173
members). The structural organization of these two large
groups, due to their close affiliation with the churches,
was maintained throughout the Nazi period and they are
both organized with national headquarters.

They are primarily concerned with religious study,
religious instruction and welfare work within the member-
ship of their churches. This program has been extended
to broaden the traditional interests of their members,
and to secure changes in social legislation to remedy con-
ditions that make welfare work necessary.

In a brief survey it is only possible to touch on general
aspects. It is clear, however, that all the political parties
have made little headway with the women voters, who
represent the majority of the electorate.

HE FOLLOWING FIGURES which show the number of
seats held by women in the Bundestag (Federal As-
sembly at Bonn) and state legislatures indicate the rela-
tively minor position occupied by women in German
public life:

Total © Women

Federal Assembly, Bonn .. 402 27 (6.4/0)
State Legislatures:

North Rhine-Westphalia .. 216 30 (13.8°/o)
Schleswig-Holstein ...... 70 5 (7.1°/0)
Lower Saxony 149 10 (6.7°/0)
Hamburg .... 117 16 (13.6°/o)
British Zone ...........- 532 61 (11.0°/0)

Nevertheless, there is a great stirring of interest among
women of all sections of society, at present of necessity
inarticulate, largely ineffectual and, for this reason, dif-
ficult to assess. But that this is a real force, albeit as yet
unharnessed to a purpose, is becoming increasingly
evident. -++ END

UNICEF Streptomycin Distributed

A shipment of 34,000 grams (nearly 75 pounds) of
streptomycin, donated by United Nations International
Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) arrived in Bremer-
haven for use in treating German children in western
Germany. The 34 boxes, containing 1,000 grams each,
were distributed in the states of the US Zone, the British
Zone and the western sectors of Berlin,

APRIL 1950

--- Page 46 ---
The Hedler Case

HE GERMAN PEOPLE — politically tongue-tied for

more than a decade — availed themselves of their
newly acquired right of freely expressed opinion in
February in a loud and emphatic outcry which re-
verberated throughout the German Federal Republic.

The public outburst was called forth by a Kiel State
Court's acquittal Feb. 15 of Federal Deputy Wolfgang
Hedler on charges of preaching racism and nationalism,
malicious slander, libel, disparagement of the dead and
incitement to class struggle.

Hedler walked out of the courtroom a free man only
to run head on into a wave of public indignation which
had not subsided a month later.

Protests against the acquittal came from many layers
of society culminating in mass demonstrations, strikes
and sharply worded statements from leading civic,
cultural and political groups, trade unionists and the
common people, Responsible newspapers were generally
at one in condemning the verdict and deploring the
effect it would have on opinion abroad, which is
hypersensitive to developments in Germany.

LTHOUGH TINGED with this general fear of foreign
repercussion, the strong moral indignation was es-
sentially German-inspired and arose as the free and
Spontaneous expression of a people conditioned to al-
most two decades of vehement anti-Semitic propaganda.
Even those papers which defended the verdict as
legally well-founded were concerned over the fact that
“once more all Germans must pay the bill for idiots a Ja
Hedler."

But the protests were not unanimous. From some
quarters came vigorous support of Hedler and carefully-
worded judgment concerning the court's decision.

However, with the exception of this minority of cheer-
ing followers of the radical right wing, western Germans
shed political apathy and joined in inveighing against
the findings of the court.

Hedler, right-wing German Party (Deutsche Partei)
delegate to the Bundestag (lower house of the federal
parliament), was charged with having made malicious
inflammatory statements in a speech at a political rally
in Einfeld, Schleswig-Holstein, on Nov. 25.

In the course of the speech Hedler was alleged to
have declared that although the ex-

approval of wartime anti-Nazi resistance fighters. Accord-
ing to reports, Hedler stated: “We cannot tolerate that,
because they were traitors and this statement ridicules
all those who died on the field of honor."

He was further reported to have said, “The ‘German
Party declares that Germany is least guilty of the out-
break of the second world war. The resistance fighters
are responsible for our misery because Germany did not
collapse as a result of total exhaustion but as a result of
treason and sabotage.”

The speech which was carried extensively in the west
German press created an immediate and violent reaction
in the Bundestag, especially among SPD delegates. Hed-
ler's parliamentary immunity was lifted shortly thereafter
to permit criminal prosecution. He was later expelled
from the German Party on Jan. 16, although certain
Schleswig-Holstein groups within the party continued to
defend him.

Early in January, Hedler was indicted by the state of
Schleswig-Holstein on charges of violating penal code
sections dealing with malicious slander, libel, disparage-
ment of the dead and incitement of race hatred.

HE TRIAL OPENED in the obscure village of Neu-

muenster on Jan. 31 before a Kiel State Court whose
three judges, according to an official of the state govern-
ment, were former members of the National Socialist
party. Evidence was brought forward that Hedler, himself,
had been a Nazi party member since 1932, in spite of his
claim to have joined the party in 1934.

On the witness stand, Hedler denied having attacked
the July 20 anti-Hitler plotters or the Jews. The prosecu-
tion, however, produced some 35 witnesses, including an
SPD official, who testified from minutes he had taken of
Hedler's speeches.

In concluding his case on Feb. 9, the prosecutor claimed
to have proved that Hedler made defamatory statements
against anti-Nazi groups and added that witnesses unani-
mously testified that Hedler, in referring to extermina-
tion of the Jews, had used such expressions as “opinions
may differ about these methods,” “cleaning up,” and “‘it
might have been better to do it legally.”

The prosecutor asked for prison sentences for Hedler |
on the various charges with possible penalties amounting

to 16 months, but on Feb, 15, the Kiel

termination of Jews in gas chambers
by the Nazis “might have been wrong,”
there were “other ways of getting rid
of them,”

N THE SAME SPEECH he reportedly
denounced Dr. Kurt Schumacher,
chief of the powerful Social Demo-
cratic party, for stressing Nazi crimes
against the Jews and for Schumacher's

In a press release issued shortly
after the announcement of the
Hedler verdict, the US High Com-
missioner said:

“Hedler may have been acquitted
by a court but, if he did in fact
say the things which are attribu-
ted to him, I doubt that he can or
will ever be acquitted morally by
public opinion of the world, or
indeed, of Germany."

State Court handed down its decision
acquitting Hedler of the charges and
stating that as a politician, Hedler
could not be prohibited from expressing
criticism.

Hedler walked out of the court room
a free man, wildly cheered by 200
radical rightists, and accepted bou-
quets, tied with the black, white and
red colors of Hitler's Third Reich from

APRIL 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
his admirers. The extreme right German National Party
(Deutsche Reichs Partei) telegraphed Hedler, who con-
tinued to hold his Bundestag seat despite being expelled
from the German Party: ,,Congratulations on your acquit-
tal, under which the right holds its own against the pres-
sure of the street.”

A GERMAN GOVERNMENT spokesman announced that
the federal German coalition cabinet had agreed that
Hedler's trial had been properly conducted. The spokes-
man said the cabinet, reviewing the court's decision, had
unanimously found that:

1, The proceedings were not yet complete as the pro-
secution had decided to appeal. Therefore no comment
was possible.

2. Hedler had been acquitted for lack of proof of guilt
but had not been found not guilty.

3. The trial had been correctly, objectively and consci-
entiously conducted and there was no reason to level
any reproach against the judges.

But from all other sources came a storm of protest
which gained momentum in the days which followed.

In Kiel, trade unions asked all workers to down tools
to attend a mass protest meeting in front of the city hall
and 10,000 responded to the call. In Munich, political
parties, the Organization of Nazi Persecutees and trade
unions joined in a protest rally,

In Bonn, Bundestag members told reporters of their
disappointment and dissatisfaction with the verdict.

The Social Democrats issued a strong statement assert-
ing that the “enemies of democracy have gained an
advantage with the support of German justice as a result
of the case," and called the verdict “a blow against Ger-
many.”

URT SCHUMACHER, leader of the SPD, termed the

acquittal of Hedler “legally untenable." He said that
the acquittal was a proof that the German juridical system
is “not a reliable political factor.”

The Christian Democratic Union, of which Chancellor
Konrad Adenauer is a member, declared: “If the Germans
want to make Rightist radicalism a deadly danger, all they
need to do is stage a couple of trials like that of Hedler.”

The statement recalled that the Weimar Republic had
been destroyed because of its generosity toward its
“proclaimed enemies," the Nazis, and called for some
limitation on such statements.

CDU Bundestag faction leader Heinrich von Brentano
said Hedler should be deprived of his civil rights for the
“infamous statements which brought him to trial at Neu-
muenster.”

Members of the western Berlin Independent Trade
Union joined with students at the Free University of
Berlin in the western sectors to demand the recall of the
jurists in the case.

From Freiburg, in the French Zone, Baden labor unions
telegraphed the German Federation of Labor demanding
the resignation of the judges in the Hedler case. The
telegram said that these judges “undermined democracy
and confidence in the administration of justice."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

Meanwhile the German Federation of Labor (DGB)
issued a statement asserting that the Hedler verdict was
a symptom of a development which labor is not willing
to tolerate since it concerns the fundamentals of demo-
cratic life.

N THE DAY the verdict was announced, a minute-

long tumult in the Bundestag greeted a remark by
Hans Joachim von Merkatz, leading member of the Ger-
man Party — the party from which Hedler was expelled —
that “this is the black day of German democracy."

The Socialist opposition in the Bundestag demanded
that the court which tried Hedler be put on trial itself.

In a statement read to the plenary session of the
Bundestag, Socialist speaker Erich Ollenhauer demanded
that the justices who tried Hedler should be brought to
trial for “bending justice.”

As an outgrowth of public sentiment, the German
Ministry of Justice announced that it was working on
a supplement to the criminal code which would make
anti-Semitism a punishable crime. An official announce-
ment said that the supplement to be submitted to the
cabinet soon, will provide penalties for actions against
peace as well as for high treason.

DITORIAL COMMENT on the acquittal of the Bundes-

tag deputy was extensive as western papers denounced
the acquittal, the court and the political sentiments of
Hedler.

The Heidelberg (Wuerttemberg-Baden) Rhein-Neckar
Zeitung scored the verdict and the rightist elements in the
government. In an editorial headed “A Hunting License,”
the paper held that the verdict gives a permit to all
enemies of law and freedom to chase and kill democracy
and to establish a state of blood and tears. ‘They are the
same men who led Germany into disaster once before;
even their slogans have remained the same. They have
not learned. And it is more than just a coincidence that
the radicalists of the right and the left wings try again
to establish a joint front in their fight against law and
freedom. The Hedler trial was, therefore, a test case for
the German judiciary. It has deplorably failed...”

The Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt, Hesse) ex-
pressed no surprise at the acquittal. “Since the prose-
cution witnesses offered conflicting testimony and no
unimpeachable stenographic minutes of Hedler's Einfeld
speech could be presented, the court had to acquit the
defendant, unless it wanted to revert to past practices
in the administration of justice. Of Hedler himself, the
paper said, he may have been acquitted legally, but
never politically.

The Stuttgart (Wuerttemberg-Baden) semi-weekly
Deutsche Zeitung, commenting on the verdict, said
“There will be many to criticize and few to approve this
verdict, in Germany as abroad...The judgment states
that his trial, despite the acquittal, is a distinct warning
to all concerned. And indeed, this trial concerns many,
not only in Schleswig-Holstein.”

The Koelnische Rundschau (Cologne, North Rhine-
Westphalia) inquired how Germans still can fall prey to

APRIL 1950

--- Page 48 ---
these themes, “Old records, neither text nor melody is
new. All characters like Hedler are agitating gamblers
who will lose their stake when distress and disaster
have been overcome...We have to ‘acquiesce in the
hard realization that the German democrats will have
to fight tenaciously and energetically, not only against
Hedler and his accomplices, but also against other open
or hidden opposition.”

a hie BADISCHE ZEITUNG (Freiburg, Baden) saw the
events at Neumuenster following exactly the pattern
established by the nationalistic reactionaries during the
Weimar period, and stated that “this should cease.’ The
paper admonished: “Political trials of this kind must be
withdrawn from local influences and be referred to a
central, really independent court!"

The Darmstaedter Echo (Darmstadt, Hesse) was dubious
ot the efficacy of any law protecting democracy in
similar circumstances. ‘Unfortunately, the paper said,
“characters like Hedler are very clever, and know
exactly the effects upon the masses of a certain tone,
a clearing of the throat, a grimace or a gesture. No
legislator in a free state can prohibit that without
wrecking the basis of constitutional liberties.”

Many papers were fearful of foreign interpretation of
the verdict. Among others, the Wuppertal (North Rhine-
Westphalia) paper Westdeulsche Rundschau questioned
the effect of the acquittal on public sentiment in other
countries. “It is easy to imagine how public opinion will
exploit Hedler's acquittal to paint a threatening picture
of the ghost of German nationalism."

Papers of Berlin's western sectors were unanimous in
denouncing the acquittal as intolerable and incompatible
with the prestige of young German democracy abroad.

The British-licensed Telegraf charged the president of
the tribunal with having passed an “eminently political

sentence” despite his assertions that legal rather than
political aspects were at stake exclusively in the trial of
Hedler. “However,” concluded the Telegraf, “even the

patience of democrats who may be just as gentle as a
lamb, must have a limit, unless they want to commit
suicide.’

“Heil Hedler headlined the Berlin US-licensed Tages-
spiegel and added: “It is certainly a sarcastic coincidence
that the name Hedler sounds like Hitler... But as far as
the consequences go we should give more thought to the
court than to the defendant.” The editorial ends with an
appeal to the Federal Government and Parliament to act
promptly, to restore the world's confidence in Germany.

HE VOICE OF the man on the street was heard
through the Frankfurter Rundschau (Frankfurt, Hesse)
which published the results of an opinion poll on the
question: What do you think of Hedler’s acquittal?
A 48-year-old unemployed tool mechanic said “the
acquittal is not justified. It is quite all right to have some
national pride. But it must not lead to offending others.

This mistake was made once before, and we have to pay
for it now."

APRIL 1950

45

Accompanied by Ralph Nicholson (left), director of the
Office of Public Affairs, US High Commissioner John J.
McCloy is greeted upon arrival in Stuttgart by Maj. Gen.
Charles P. Gross, US State Commissioner for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, and Dr. Hermann Wells, president of the
University of Indiana and chairman of the US Commission
for Occupied Areas. (US Army photo)

A 38-year-old business man told the newspaper: “Even
though the allegedly offended groups are right in defend-
ing their honor, I do not think that Hedler's statements
suffice for a sentence under the penal code. If we are
talking of freedom of speech and democracy, this must
not apply just to one side, but political opponents must
be accorded the same opportunity to speak their minds."

A 29-year-old embittered housewife stated: “Actually
the acquittal is not correct. But it is the general practice
that the big shots get by and the little ones are punished.”

A 33-year-old office worker answered: “The acquittal
is absolutely wrong. The German judiciary proved its
attitude by taking a stand for peace-breakers, The judges
stated that they did not want to pass a political verdict.
Indeed, however, the verdict is political, in the adverse
sense. Now the road is open to further defamation and
slandering of all opponents of Nazism. Now the enemies
of democracy will muster up courage, since this verdict
guarantees them immunity from prosecution. Quo vadis,
justitia, and German democracy?"

INALLY A 38-YEAR-OLD scrap dealer summed up the
feeling of many Germans afraid of foreign reaction:
“He could not have been sentenced for his remarks about
the resistance movement, because nobody can be pun-
ished for speaking his mind. As regards other points, the
acquittal is not justified. He should have been sentenced
if for no other reason, so at least to restore the German
people's reputation abroad. We are deeply enough in
miscredit, and such utterances make things even worse."
-++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Personnel Notes

Berlin Element Director Appointed

Edward Page, Jr., former counsellor of the United
States Embassy in Rome, has been appointed to the
newly created position of director, Berlin Element,
HICOG.

Howard P. Jones, who has been acting deputy director
of Berlin Element since the death of Col. William T. Bab-
cock, was confirmed in that position. He also continues
as the chief ECA representative in Berlin.

Col. James T.Duke was appointed deputy US com-
mander, Berlin, in addition to his duties as commanding
officer of Berlin Military Post.

The appointments were announced by Maj.Gen. Max-
well D, Taylor, US commander, Berlin.

Mr. Page, who is 44, is a native of Ardmore, Pa., and
a career diplomat. He was graduated from Harvard Uni-
versity with a bachelor of arts degree in 1928. He was
a member of the American delegation at both the Yalta
and Potsdam conferences, and was secretary general of
the American delegation at the Paris conference of 1946
when the peace treaties with Italy and the former Axis
satellite states were signed. He was also an adviser at
the meetings of the Council of Foreign Ministers in
Paris and New York.

Mr. Jones, who is 51, was educated at the Univer-
sities of Wisconsin and Columbia. Prior to his appoint-
ment with Berlin Element, he served as US chief of the
Finance Group of the Bipartite Control Office.

Two Named to ISD Top Posts

W. J. Convery Egan and Theodore Kaghan have been
appointed chief and deputy chief, respectively, of the
Information Services Division, HICOG,

Mr. Egan has been deputy
chief of the Information
Services Division since last
November. A native of Tren-
ton, N.J., he was a news-
paper reporter and editor
for many years before join-
ing the State Department in
1942. He served as a public
affairs officer with the
Foreign Service in South
America until 1948, when
he became assistant chief
in charge of film operations,
International Motion Pic-
tures Division, and later
deputy director of the Of-
fice of International Infor-
mation, State Department.

Mr. Kaghan has served with US Forces, Austria, in
Vienna since 1945, where he was news operations offi-
cer of the Information Services Branch, editor of the US

W. J. Convery Egan.
(PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

German language newspaper Wiener Kurier and later
press officer at USFA headquarters. During the war he
was chief of the Basic News Division, Office of War In-
formation, and earlier worked on the foreign news desk
of the New York Herald Tribune.

New Director General of JEIA

Mr. Walter Hoag has assumed his duties as director
general of the Joint Export-Import Agency, which is now
in the process of liquidation. He has replaced Morris
S. Verner, Jr., of Pittsburgh, Pa., who resigned recently
to return to private business in the United States.

Before accepting his new post in Germany, Mr. Hoag
was assistant foreign sales manager of the Allied Chemi-
cal and Dye Corporation in New York City. He has
gained extensive experience in the import and export
field during approximately 25 years service with the
chemical firm.

The German federal government now has the major
share of responsibility for foreign trade activities for-
merly held by JEIA.

Assistant General Counsel Named

Conrad W.Oberdorfer, Boston attorney and former
professor at law, has been appointed as one of the two
assistant general counsels of HICOG.

Mr. Oberdorfer was born and educated in Germany,
receiving his degree in German law in 1931 and his
doctor's degree in 1933, He emigrated to the United
States in March 1934 and thereafter studied at North-
eastern Law School, where he received his LL.B., and at
Harvard Law School, where he received an LL.M.

He taught at the University of Washington Law School,
Northeastern Law School, Harvard Law School and the
Harvard Graduate School of Public Administration. He
also practiced law in Boston.

The appointment of the other assistant, John A. Bross,
was announced previously.

Heads Operating Facilities

Thomas J. Carolan has been appointed chief of the
Operating Facilities Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG. Mr. Carolan succeeds William M. Kane, who has
resigned.

Mr. Carolan, a resident of Silver Springs, Md., was
educated at Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.
He has been in government service since 1933, holding
positions with the Federal Housing Agency, Office of
Price Administration, the Reconstruction Finance Cor-
poration and the State Department. He was special as-
sistant for operations to the Director of the Central Serv-
ices Division, State Department, before joining HICOG.

Labor Officials Named

Meyer Bernstein, former member of the research de-
partment of the United Steelworkers of America, has been
appointed as HICOG labor observer for the British Zone.
Mr. Bernstein has his headquarters in Duesseldorf, report-
ing to the Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG, in Frankfurt.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 50 ---
Einar Edwards, former regional director of the In-
dustrial Union Marine and Shipbuilding Workers of
America, has been appointed chief of the Labor Manage-

ment Techniques Branch, OLA, and Chris Jorgensen, -

former labor attache for the Department of State in
Shanghai, China, has been named labor economist in the
Trade Union Policy and Relations Branch of the same office.

Mr. Bernstein, a native of Rochester, N.Y., received
a bachelor's degree from Cornell University in 1936 and
since then has been associated with the United Steel-
workers. During the war he was with the Army in the
South Pacific area.

Mr. Edwards was educated at Temple University in
Philadelphia. Until last September he was director of the
Philadelphia region for the Industrial Union Marine and
Shipbuilding Workers. Since September, he has been a
labor consultant for the ECA in Washington, D.C. During
the war, he served with the Navy in the Pacific.

Mr. Jorgensen was educated at Stout Institute, Iowa
State and the University of Wisconsin. A carpenter by
trade, he was a trade union organizer and education
director from 1934 to 1941. For four years thereafter he
was a labor relations officer for the Tennessee Valley
Authority. He served a year as production engineer with
the Office of the Housing Expediter and then went to
Shanghai.

Lecturer on US Foreign Affairs

Dr, Waldemar Gurian, professor of political science at
Notre Dame University and chairman of its International
Relations Committee, is giving a series of lectures in US
Information Centers on ‘The United States Foreign Policy
and the World of the 20th Century.”

Professor Gurian is editor of the Review of Politics
and author of “Bolshevism in Theory and Practice” and
“Hitler and the Christians,” which have been translated
into several languages. He is also an authority in the
field of Russian-American relations and was guest pro-
fessor at Bonn University in 1948 and at the University
of Frankfurt in 1949.

Inspector General Named

Col. Herman O, Lane has been appointed inspector
general of the European Command, succeeding Maj.Gen.
G. J. Richards, who has been given an assignment in
Paris. Colonel Lane has served either as inspector general
or deputy inspector general since May 18, 1948. The
EUCOM inspector general has served in the Inspector
General's Department of the Army for nearly 15 years.

12 of Original Contingent Remain

Washington's Birthday was a special anniversary to 12
of the HICOG personnel with OLC Hesse. The even dozen
OLCH employees arrived in England on Feb. 22, 1944.

Headed by Dr. James R. Newman, state commissioner
of Hesse, the Hesse officials include Francis E, Sheehan,
deputy state commissioner; E.K.Neumann, director of
Public affairs; Stanley Sisson, director of economic affairs;
Glenn Garrett, director of labor affairs; Donald S. Sping-
ler, chief of finance; Joseph I. Taylor, chief of industry;

APRIL 1950

AF

Julian A. Hillmann, economics adviser; H. A. Rhoades,
public relations; Robert A. Geotcheus, senior district
resident officer for Darmstadt; William R. Rule, resident
officer for Offenbach, and John A. Guy, assistant district
resident officer for Wiesbaden.

Finance Chief in Bavaria

K. F. Fredericks of New York City, formerly finance
adviser of OMG Bavaria, has been named as chief of the
Affairs Division, OLCB, suc-

Finance Branch, Economics
ceeding Joseph T. Bartos,
who has been transferred
to Frankfurt as deputy chief
of HICOG's Public Finance
Division.

Mr. Fredericks joined the
US Army in 1942 and serv-
ed as a civil affairs liaison
officer with the Ninth Tac-
tical Air Command in Nor-
mandy, northern France and
Belgium. He arrived in
Munich in May 1945 as a
member of the original Mili-
tary Government detach-
ment assigned to Bavaria.

He was appointed chief
of OMG’'s Finance Branch
in 1947, and later finance
adviser to the US state director. Since October 1949, he
has been assigned to the Public Affairs Division, OLCB.

K. F, Fredericks.
(PRB OLCB photo)

New Chief of Schools

Col. Russel F, Albert of Elizabethtown, Ky., former
chief of the Review Branch, EUCOM Historical Division,
has been appointed chief of the Dependents School Divi-
sion, EUCOM. Colonel Albert succeeded Col. Joseph
O. Haw, who left for the United States Feb. 25, for a new
assignment in Washington.

Political Adviser Resumes Duties

Foreign Service Officer Robert F. Corrigan of Cleve-
land, Ohio, has returned to EUCOM Headquarters in
Heidelberg after spending three months in the United
States. His recent assignment as second secretary of the
US Embassy in Moscow was cancelled in order to permit
him to resume his duties as political adviser to the
commander-in-chief of the European Command.

While in the United States, Mr. Corrigan consulted
with officials of the US Department of State in Washing-
ton on political affairs in Germany.

New Deputy Provost Marshal

Col. Paul L. Singer, Corps of Military Police, has been
appointed deputy provost marshal of the European Com-
mand, succeeding Brig.Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, who
has left for a new assignment in Italy. Colonel Singer
has served in EUCOM since March 1949, as executive
officer for operations, Provost Marshal] Division, EUCOM.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Occupation Log

This section is compiled from adaptations of official reports, an-
nouncements and statements of HICOG, Allied High Commission,
Allied headquarters, EUCOM and subordinate occupation organizations,
public-relations releases, excerpts from other occupation publications,
and information from authoritative German sources.

Law on Atomic Energy

The new Allied High Commission Law for Materials,
Facilities and Equipment related to Atomic Energy does
not impose any new restrictions on the German people
or economy, but it enumerates in some detail the tech-
nical aspects of such control.

The new law, barring German activity in the atomic
energy field, allows limited activity for research, medical
and educational purposes. The Military Security Board
can stretch the rules, but only if such exceptions do not
endanger Allied security or facilitate German rearmament.

A special provision permits museums to possess and
display some of the materials and equipment otherwise
banned. Establishments possessing such articles must
submit a twice-yearly inventory and a statement on
activities to the Military Security Board. Maximum
penalties for violation of the law are life imprisonment
and a fine of DM 1,000,000, Courts may dissolve offend-
ing organizations. (For text of law, see “Law and
Regulations," page 67.)

Bar to Exploitation of Youth

Plans for a Communist youth march through West
Berlin over the Whitsun holiday, May 28, were doused
in cold water by both German and Allied authorities.

West Berlin's Mayor Ernst Reuter stated flatly that no
march on foot or in vehicles would be allowed from the
East sector or East zone, saying, “Under no circumstances
will we give the enemies of democratic freedom the
chance to destroy the peaceful life of our city and to
undermine our democratic order. We shall give the
enemies of freedom no more freedom than is given in
the east of Berlin.”

Calling it the joint task of the authorities, democratic
parties and organizations “and even of the entire Berlin
population,” he asked all democrats in Berlin to stand
firmly together to ward off the publicized scheme.

High US and German officials meet in-
formally at home of Dr. James R. New-
man, Land Commissioner for Hesse.
From left to right, Assistant US High
Commissioner Benjamin J, Buttenwieser;
Dr. Newman; Minister President Chris-
tian Stock, of Hesse; Deputy US High
Commissioner Maj. Gen. George P. Hays;
Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, Land Com-
missioner of Wuerttemberg-Baden; Cap-
tain Charles R. Jefis (USN), Land Com-
missioner of Bremen; Clarence M. Bolds,
acting Land Commissioner of Bavaria,
and Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US
Commander of Berlin. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Western commandants publicly concurred: ‘The
Deutschland Treffen is a transparent attempt to exploit
German youth for Communist ends. The Commandants
will take all necessary measures to assure the mainte-
nance of public order and safety.

“Any provocative acts or demonstrations... by the
FDJ (Freie Deutsche Jugend, Soviet-sponsored youth
organization) or other disorderly elements will be
suppressed and the responsibility, therefore, will rest
squarely on the instigators.”

“Indispensable” Library

Bremen's US Information Center turned over 300 books
to the new High School for Labor, Politics and Economics
in Wilhelmshaven-Ruestersiel and thus launched what
the school principal termed an “indispensable” library.

With about 270 different titles, the books deal with
social sciences, economics, international affairs, geo-
graphy, history, education, hygiene, legislation, labor
affairs, trade and industry, sport and drama.

Written in English, they were for the most part by
noted US writers.

Essential aim of the Wilhelmshaven high school is to
instruct youth in the economic and social problems pre-
vailing in Germany, and to do proper scientific research
in labor, politics and economics.

Golden Rule for Officials

Evidence that the city of Munich seeks to be thorough-
ly democratic can be found in the recent circular letter
the city administration sent out to its officials and em-
ployees.

The letter asks the employees to “show the public
you are interested in their troubles and wishes."

“The very fact that official offices usually have to
give answers in the negative makes it even more ne-
cessary that answers and information are given in an
understanding and polite manner,” states the letter.
“Every official, employee and worker, as counsel of the
public, is obliged to treat the population in such a way
as he would like to be treated himself.”

The letter frankly recognizes that the new attitude, a
reversal of tradition, is not an easy one to establish.
“(But)... if every municipal employee would make this
his principle, difficulties while talking to people calling
at offices would never arise.”

--- Page 52 ---
Competition for Grain Deliveries

Competing for leadership in delivery of grain for Wuert-
temberg-Baden are eight counties already with more than
100 percent of their quotas,

Sinsheim and Buchen are jockeying for the lead with
116 percent and 115 percent respectively. The Wuerttem-
berg-Baden average as of Jan. 31 stood at 94 percent of
the Ministry of Agriculture quota. But there were still
eight counties which had delivered less than 80 percent
of their quotas,

Present grain stocks are more than sufficient at present
to last out the winter, according to agriculture officials of
the state commissioner's office,

Americans Write Home More

Americans apparently found more time — or air mail
paper — to write home last year than in 1948, or so it
would seem from APO poundage figures for 1949.

Air mail dispatched to the United States from the Euro-
pean Command last year increased 279,912 pounds over
APO figures for the previous year. Substantial boosts also
were recorded in the amount of air mail, first class and
parcel post received in EUCOM during 1949.

Outgoing first class and parcel post mail, however,
dropped off 17,680 sacks, but incoming mail in the same
categories went up 48,768 sacks. The average sack of mail
weighs 50 pounds.

Patience Rewards German Seamen

After six months of waiting, and a pile of international
paper work, three German seamen have been taken
aboard the Norwegian vessel Ibis as crewmen.

About half a year ago, three seamen, Hans Bick, Her-
mann Busch and Hans Renner, signed contracts with the
Larsen Shipping Company by way of the German Foreign
Trade Bank. But their applications for visas to Batavia
were denied by the Netherlands Consulate due to the
conflict in Indonesia. The shipping company paid the trio
standby wages while they awaited formation of the
Indonesian government. Even then, no visas were ob-
ainable — Indonesia didn't have any consulates.

The shipping company then changed the embarkation
place to Hongkong, but visa applications were ignored,
due to the situation in China.

Finally, the embarkation harbor was switched to Singa-
pore, The British Consulate in Hamburg swiftly stamp-
ed its okay, and the three seamen flew off to the Orient
to begin — after six months’ delay — the work for which
they had signed up.

Germany Paid for US Gift Postage

The US Post Office Department in February paid some
$6,950,000 to Germany for fees Deutsche Post earned in
delivering US gift parcels during the year ending July 1,
1948.

Of the total, $5,800,000 was earned by the German
Postal system in the western zones and west Berlin.
while $1,150,000 was paid to the Soviet Zone.

APRIL 1950

49

Opening-day audience at ceremonies marking the opening
of a new educational service center near the Jugenheim
(Hesse) Pedagogical Institute, heard speech by E. K. Neu-
mann, director of Hesse’s Public Affairs Division. Shown
from left to right are Dr. James Morgan Read, director
of the Education and Cultural Affairs Division, HICOG;
Mr, Neumann; Dr. Karl Friedrich, chief of Education, Darm-
stadt Regierungsbezirk; and Dr. Leroy Vogel, director
of Education, OLC Hesse. (OLCH photo)

The money paid to the Federal German Republic will
go into the country’s foreign exchange account — a
boost for German purchasing power in dollar areas.

Close to $3,900,000 is still due Germany for delivery
of US gift parcels from July 1, 1948, until March 31, 1949,
Accounts thereafter still await clearance.

Previous payments made in 1946 and 1947 total
$3,500,000, of which all but $3,000,000 accrued to western
Germany as export credits.

Schools Help Schools

A school for seamstresses is stitching pillowcases,
sheets and blankets for the Jugendorf boys' detention
home. A school for mechanics is repairing sewing
machines for a nearby sewing school. Student cooks and
housemaids are preparing menus for youngsters in yet
other schools,

This reciprocal aid is no mere accident, but the result
of a planned program among trade schools in Berlin's
US Sector, suggested by the Berlin Element's Education
Branch,

In two months the program has helped ease the critical
shortage of equipment in schools and at the same time
is fostering a sense of community responsibility among
students.

The program got underway last December following a
meeting of principals of US Sector vocational schools
with Berlin Element education officials. Plans are now
underway to extend the program to the British and
French Sectors of Berlin.

American Youth Is Model

A 16-year-old Berliner, home after two weeks in New
York, is still wide-eyed at Manhattan's skyline, at the
city's drugstores, and the hurried tempo of life in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
United States. But his most striking impression, he says,
was the “way citizenship training and democracy are
taught in the lowest school grades.”

Joachim Schultze-Buettner, an apprentice-reporter from
Berlin-Wilmersdorf, represented Germany as one of 500
persons attending an international youth congress spon-
sored by the New York Daily Mirror.

Amazed that community living was a part of the grade-
school curricula, Joachim said American school children
are quick to develop an open mind to the problems and
ways of life of other peoples. He also applauded the
youth and enthusiasm of American teachers: “Most of
our teachers in Germany are old people,” he said, “but
I guess that's because our young teachers are paid so
little."

Among features of the American scene which Joachim
hopes to see soon in Germany are the wide variety of
activities of the Boy and Girl Scouts and the YMCA.

Inter-Faith Councils Unite

First national constitution of the German coordinating
‘council of Christians and Jews was adopted at a recent
meeting in Bad Nauheim, attended by representatives
from Munich, Stuttgart, Wiesbaden, Frankfurt, Berlin,
Offenbach and Freiburg.

Councils of Christians and Jews and their Coordi-
nating Council* are sponsored in Germany by the
National Conference of Christians and Jews, New York,
through HICOG's Religious Affairs Branch. Its purpose
is to override intolerance and prejudice through an
educational program.

Each group has a board of directors, made up of
community leaders, who maintain committees which

* See ‘‘Inter-Faith Councils’ in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 164,
June 28, 1949.

German language instructors for US personnel of OLC
Bavaria received pointers on State Department methods

of teaching at seminar held in Munich, (Photo by OLCB)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

provide speakers and programs for schools, youth centers,
teachers’ training institutions, labor and business groups.
The council also publishes materials aimed to combat
“hate propaganda” and break down existing prejudice.

The Bad Nauheim meeting also selected three national
co-chairmen: Dr. Erwin Redslob, president of the Free
University of Berlin (Protestant); Dr. Joseph Nielsen,
Frankfurt (Catholic); and Dr. Alfred Mayer, Wiesbaden
(Jewish).

Aid to Berlin Industry

West Berlin industry, communications, transportation
and housing were DM 100,000,000 richer in February when
the German Federal Republic released that sum in ECA
counterpart funds to the Berlin Industriebank.

Simultaneously, the Marshall Plan Advisory Committee
for Berlin met for the second time to study ways to reap
the maximum from these funds and to plan a program
for future credits.

Subcommittees studied problems of unemployment,
long- and middle-term investments and priorities for credit
allocations. Berlin Element Deputy Director Howard P.
Jones said the DM 100,000,000 credit “will bring about
an increase in production and a decrease in unemploy-
ment in West Berlin by spring."

Dr. Paul Hertz, City Council director and chairman of
the advisory committee, said the 16-man committee had
dealt with the following problems:

The drafting of a global plan for the reconstruction of
the Berlin economy;

Investigation of the question of whether new industries
should be established;

Proposals governing supplementary measures to ease
unemployment if present aid within the scope of ECA
credits and self-financing activities prove inadequate;

The use of funds released for housing;

The promotion of trade projects, and

The development of hotels.

Seeing GYA Convinces Red Officer

A Red Army officer recently stuck his head from
behind the Iron Curtain into Free Berlin, watched a GYA
children's festival for a few moments and quickly drove
back to his home in the Soviet sector.

Sgt. George Smith, senior non-commissioned officer
of the Schiller GYA Club, tells it this way:

The Red Army officer appeared suddenly in the door-
way at a children's costume party, stood contemplatively
watching. Smith approached him and the two exchanged
a few words on the nature and cost (20 pfennigs) of the
party.

“Is this for East German children, too?” asked the
Russian.

“Yes, if they wish to come,” said the sergeant.

“Do they pay East or West marks?"

“They can pay East money if they have it.”

“Where do the drink and food come from that the
children are eating?”

APRIL 1950

--- Page 54 ---
lt is paid for from money the children raise themsel-
ves and food donated by GYA.”

In his clear, though hesitant, English, the Russian
replied, “This is very good!"

Then he left, boarded a Mercedes automobile, and was
whisked back behind the Iron Curtain,

Plan to Solve Housing Problem

Citizens of Hofheim, Hesse, anxious to regain their
homes now occupied by occupation forces, have offered
to build new dwellings for Americans in exchange for
derequisitioning.

An association of citizens petitioned US Resident Offi-
cer Edward M. Edwin and German officials through the
community's public forum. Edwin suggested that the asso-
ciation submit a specific project plan, insuring that the
dwellings would meet standards acceptable to
American authorities and showing a means for financing
the job.

The association has already started contacting officials
of the German government in hopes of solving the finance
problem.

new

Study of American Constitution

Pamphlets on the expellee problem in Germany and
the essence of the American Constitution have been issued
by the Frankfurt Institute of Public Affairs.

“Millions without a Home," being distributed to Ger-
man readers through bookshops in all western zones,
contains a complete bibliography of books on the
expellee problem, as well as a study of the sociological
and psychological aspects of the question.

The American Constitution pamphlet is a historical
study stressing the political and civil rights of citizens
as provided in the Constitution, and the opportunities
granted to citizens to participate in governmental affairs.

The German Institute of Public Affairs is a joint enter-
prise of the four leading German municipal organizations
and other associations interested in public affairs, govern-
ment and public administration. It works closely with
German governmental agencies and HICOG offices.

Unemployment Down in Berlin

For the first time in six months, there has been a
shrinkage in the number of persons receiving relief in
the western sectors of Berlin.

Since June 1949, the number of relief recipients has
been static — and high, In January, the number dropped
by some 3,000 to 224,128 persons.

Highest point in weekly applications for relief was
reached in mid-December when 5,930 persons applied in
one week. Lowest came during the week ending Jan. 25,
when 3,750 persons applied.

US and Berlin Magistrat officials have expressed con-
fidence that the infusion of DM 100,000,000 from ECA
counterpart funds into west Berlin will result shortly in

a steadying of the economy and a decrease in unemploy-
ment,

APRIL 1950

51

American Gls, Special Service hostesses and young de-
pendents, dressed in costumes of countries from which
today's US citizens originated, took part in the only US
float entered in Munich's Fasching parade. Participants
danced around gilded replica of the Statue of Liberty.

(Photo by PIO, Munich MP)

Community Center Praised

“What the citizens and officials of Ochsenfurt have
done as a community in providing (for themselves) a
community center is typical of the initiative and coopera-
tion we should like to see in every town in Bavaria. You
were confronted with a civic problem and you solved
it with your own resources and leadership.”

Paying this compliment at the dedication of the center
for Ochsenfurt's 7,000 residents, Dr. Charles D, Winning,
chief of the Public Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria, parti-
cularly applauded the town's mayor, Kilian Lorenz, for
his “tenacity of purpose, his refusal to be discouraged,
and the realization... of one of his goals in Ochsenfurt.”

The community center includes a reading room and
library and was built by city officials at the citizens’
request. The center replaces a reading room located in
a former MG building.

Single Group for Teachers

An organization for all teachers in Bavaria —from
kindergarten through university levels —has been urged
by Dr. Herman L. Offner, chief of the Education Section,
OLC Bavaria.

Dr. Offner stated that teachers can attain professional
status only when all the different associations from a
single, comprehensive unit. ‘’Teachers must recognize the
primary competencies of each other and form one over-all
association, (It) should... offer professional guidance on
all school matters at all levels of government.”

The association should have a dual aim —to secure for
the children the educational programs and opportunities
rightfully theirs and, secondly, to secure for all teachers
the status to which their profession is entitled, he said.

He emphasized that a teachers’ association must be
constantly aware that parents and taxpayers see the school
and its work from the children's side and not from the
teachers’. It is the teachers’ task, he declared, to con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
vince the public that the interest of the teacher and the
school is in its children—not through propaganda but
by good works.

Training Trade-Union Youth

To train Bremen trade-union youth for leadership and
to support courses for labor representatives, a HICOG-
financed project was initiated by US and trade union
authorities in Bremen.

Courses in trade union organization, labor law, col-
lective bargaining and other labor economics subjects
will be instituted and a full time director of youth activities
will be appointed to fulfill the program. It is to be car-
ried out under trade union direction at the Bremen Trade
Union School in Blumenthal and at the Trade Union
Youth Home in Bremen.

Union youth leaders and labor educators from other
democratic European countries will be hired to act as
consultants to the project and to introduce fresh ideas
and new viewpoints.

Refugee Flow Increases in Berlin

West Berlin refugee officials are concerned by the
increasing number of Soviet Zone refugees and persecu-
tees arriving in the western sectors of the city and
seriously overtaxing facilities, Berlin Element’s Welfare
Branch reported.

During January, 3,416 persons were accepted by the
Central Refugee Office as compared with only 1,461
during December, Although many of the refugees move
on after a short time, there is a steady increase in the
population of various welfare homes and camps estab-
lished for their care in the three western sectors.

The inflow of such persons has not yet equaled the
peak of 5,045 attained during July 1945, but is well above
the monthly average of 2,500 during the last five months
of 1949.

Crowds of Gls, HICOG and Frankfurt Military Post em-

ployees swarmed to opening of Circle Grill snack bar
in Frankfurt. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

Private Travel in Benelux

Wrinkles in the regulations for private auto travel into
Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg were smoothed
out at a Brussels meeting attended by representatives of
EUCOM, the American Graves Registration Command
and the Benelux countries.

The impression of Benelux officials that a number of
automobiles owned by Occupation personnel had been
sold illegally within their countries was discussed. It
was explained that although transit forms are being
issued for vehicles not covered with a carnet de passage,
some owners have failed to turn in the forms when leav-
ing the countries. Thus records of entries and depar-
tures may show that some vehicles have remained in the
countries while they have in reality been returned.

EUCOM Headquarters has received numerous requests
from these governments to determine whether or not
such vehicles have been returned to the US-controlled
area of Germany. In this connection, the EUCOM provost
marshal has stressed the importance of returning such
transit forms when leaving any foreign country.

Transit forms will continue to be issued to owners of
C-plate cars wishing to enter the three countries, pro-
vided the owner holds an AGO card and travel or leave
orders, passport, driver's license, proper registration and
insurance documents.

Decline in Crime Continues

Violations of German law decreased 10 percent in 1949
from the year before, continuing a trend begun in 1947.
Most notable cleanup was registered in the field of
commodity rationing and price control laws, where of-
fenses dropped from 89,922 to 31,612 in one year.

A substantial decrease also was noted in thefts of food
and ration cards, which dropped from 35,126 to 14,593.

Officials of the Public Safety Branch said the number
of reported offenses of all types has shown a "satisfactory
decrease” for the year 1949. 590,256 cases were reported
for the year.

Figures showed the number of displaced persons accused
or jailed between January and December last year fell
from 830 to 368.

Communities Unite on Planning

Solution of problems common to the city of Munich
and surrounding communities is the aim of the ‘Planning
Association for Outer Munich Area” founded by
representatives of more than 52 communities. The
remaining 38 communities in the area are expected to
join in the near future.

It is an entirely voluntary organization. While the
association has the enthusiastic support of the Bavarian
state government and other civic officials, it will operate
independently and cut across party lines.

Urgent problems to be attacked immediately include
housing, other building activities, new streets and
waterways, establishment of factories for industry, routing
of highways and railways, and an Autobahn or super-
highway ring, around Munich.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 56 ---
The association will make numerous studies and
recommendations, and will bring its members together in
various cooperative enterprises.

Typhoid Checked in Bebra Area

Hesse's incipient typhoid fever epidemic, which was
confined to the city of Bebra, near the Soviet Zone
border, has been contained, it was disclosed by Dr.
Charles Benning, Public Health chief, OLC Hesse.

The ban on attending schools, churches and movies
had been lifted by mid-February as no new outbreak of
typhoid had been reported. As a precautionary measure,
however, public mass meetings were prohibited.

Vaccination of the inhabitants of Bebra and chlorina-
tion of the water supply continued, Dr. Benning said.

Diphtheria, Scarlet Fever Declining

Incidence of diphtheria and scarlet fever, which had
shown increases during the past months in western
Berlin, have now greatly declined, it was announced
by Berlin Element Public Health Branch.

The incidence rate of scarlet fever reached a peak
during the last week of November when 134 new cases
were reported, During the first week of February, only
69 cases were reported, the lowest rate of new cases
since the beginning of October 1949.

German health officials explain that a certain in-
crease in scarlet fever was to be expected sooner or
later, because the incidence had been unusually low for
a long period of time, and that the present over-all
figures are still far below the prewar average.

Nearly half a million toys are pouring into Germany in a

Diphtheria, which had shown a seasonal increase dur-
ing the past months with a high of 82 new cases report-
ed for the last week in November, was back to a normal
weekly average. Thirty-one new cases were reported
for the first week in February.

No health statistics were available for the Soviet
Sector of the city.

Exhibition of Masterpieces Closes

Germany's most famous paintings, the priceless col-
lection which was sent to the United States for safe-
keeping and viewed by 2,500,000 Americans before being
returned, closed their showing at the Wiesbaden
Museum in February. The Wiesbaden exhibition attract-
ed 70,000 visitors.

20,680 Cases Before Hesse Labor Courts

Hesse’s 13 labor courts adjudicated 20,680 labor-
management disputes during the past year. Almost
50 percent of the cases brought to the labor boards were
settled amicably, either by compromise or withdrawal of
action, while the courts rendered decisions in more than
5,000 of the disputes. Most of the cases were disputes
involving wages and salaries.

205 Sudeten Women to Work in UK

Two hundred and five Sudeten women from Wuert-
temberg-Baden have been accepted for work in textile
mills and allied work in England, according to Newton
S. Friedman, chief, Labor Affairs Division, OLC Wuert-
temberg-Baden. + END

“Tide of Toys’ collected by the American Legion and given

by US children to youngsters in 10 European countries. Left, Col. George S. Wear, CO Bremen Barracks, and Duncan
MacBryde, chief, Public Affairs Division, Office of Land Commissioner, Bremen, HICOG, pass out toys to children at
docking of first shipment. Legion officials (right) accompanied gifts to Germany: George J. Kelly of the National
Public Relations Commission; Walter E. Allessandroni, commander of Pennsylvania Legionnaires; Rev. Edward J.
Carney, National Chaplain; Herman Luhrs, chairman, National Public Relations Commission. (Photos by US Army and PRD HICOG)

APRIL 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
Dance by art students of Loheland School, near Fulda. Below, “Die Holzkoeppe,” a professional group, performs “Faust.”

Fulda Art Congress

By DR. LEO WEISMANTEL

Director, Teachers Training College, Fulda

HE FIRST CONGRESS of art instructors* in Germany

to convene since 1929, took place at the America
House in Fulda from Nov. 27 through Dec. 3. Sponsored
by HICOG the one week program consisted of lectures
and workshops in art educational fields.

A comprehensive exhibit showing representative art
work from the kindergarten to the art academy was a
special highlight of the congress and included work from
schools in the western zones of Germany, Austria and
Switzerland. Among the exhibitions was a selection of
American children’s drawings on display at the America
House. Other exhibits were spread throughout nine dif-
ferent buildings in Fulda.

Methods of art teaching in the fields of fine arts,
language and poetry, music and gymnastics were dis-
cussed by art education leaders from more than 60 in-
stitutions.

* The Art Pedagogical Congress at Fulda, in Hesse, was organized
by Dr. Weismantel.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 58 ---
The congress was called primarily to revive the art
pedagogical meetings which had begun at the turn of
the century in Germany and at which art instructors
from all over the world met for an exchange of ideas.
Although only from 300 to 400 guests were expected at
the congress, more than 1,500 visitors attended the
lectures and exhibitions.

The congress attracted wide attention throughout
western Germany and during the week numerous tele-
phone calls were received from various cities offering
to play host for the coming 1950 session. UNESCO re-
presentatives are expected to attend this meeting.

(HE ART PEDAGOGICAL movement seeks to discover

~ the organic creative powers inherent in the human
being from childhood on and to release and develop
these powers through instruction.

Although the movement was suppressed under National
Socialism the Fulda exhibit showed that since 1933 the
teachers who attended this congress have achieved an
enormous development in the artistic conception and
mastery of form.

The meeting highlighted strong differences of opinion
concerning developments in various art fields and ac-
centuated the differences of those who advocate a prac-
tical approach to art teaching and those who take a
more intellectual approach. +END

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

The
Produced at the school were demonstrated to conferees.

quality and tone of various musical instruments

APRIL 1950

Prof. Karl Hills of Stuttgart Art Academy delivers lecture
on principles of artcrafts, a daily feature of the congress.

Children’s drawings from the Museum of Modern Art in
New York were put on display in the exhibition rooms.

Gertrude Wieland, an instructress at Loheland School,
shows a visitor a wooden bowl made at the institution.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Purpose and operation of the “Highway Patrol’’ were ex-
plained by Sgt. Frank L. Spratt of Public Information Division,
EUCOM (Rear), Frankfurt, in the Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 168 of Aug. 23, 1949. The record of this Highway Patrol
during its first year of operation is told in the following report
released recently by the Public Information Division, EUCOM.

Highway Patrol

ILITARY POLICE highway patrols in the US occupied

areas of Germany have traveled the equivalent of
100 times around the world during their first year of
operations. The record of Highway Patrol activities during
the past year shows that patrol detachments have covered
approximately 2,500,000 miles of highways and roads
during some 180,000 patrol hours.

Members of the patrol are credited with material assist-
ance to more than 10,000 stranded motorists and with
rendering first aid to 115 victims of automobile accidents.
It has been definitely established that nine lives were
saved through prompt action by highway patrolmen.
Patrols also extinguished 117 fires of various origins, and
one patrol was credited with saving a German village from
complete destruction by fire. In some instances, patrolmen
noticed vehicle fires before the occupants of the cars were
aware of them,

While enforcing traffic regulations in the US occupied
areas, highway patrols have issued warning tickets to
nearly 10,000 first offenders and have arrested more than
10,000 violators of traffic rules as well as more than 3,000
offenders against other laws.

Considering dollar values, the Highway Patrol has
recovered approximately $100,000 worth of stolen auto-
mobiles, about $22,000 worth of other property, and has
been credited with saving an additional $70,000 worth of
property from loss or destruction. During control activi-
ties and investigations, highway patrolmen have con-
fiscated $84,000 worth of illegally owned or operated
automobiles, $40,000 worth of contraband, and secured
$12,000 worth of property that was used as evidence in
various cases.

One of the first in line on opening day of vehicle re-
registration, Wiesbaden Military Post, was Sgt. Robert
W. Scarf, USAFE, who receives his 1950 plate from
Blanch Haynes, registrar, 7122 Air Force Police. (USAF photo)

As part of the prevention program, the Highway Patrol
has operated nearly 2,000 check-points along highways
and roads of the US Zone. This activity has proved to be
effective in eliminating traffic hazards caused by vehicles
with serious mechanical defects, and in apprehending
individuals engaged in smuggling and illegal transactions.
Check-points also have assured proper registration and
insurance coverage for vehicles and licensing of drivers.

The Highway Patrol also has furnished personnel and
vehicles for 962 escorts and 23 ceremonies. Patrols have
cooperated with other law enforcement agencies in 3,155
instances and patrolmen have been called upon in 101
instances to appear as witnesses in court.

IGHWAY PATROLS are operating with a total author-

ized strength of 259 officers and men under the
control of 11 military posts throughout the European
Command. In their capacity of accident investigators, they
often constitute the only authority in a position to protect
the interests of occupation personnel involved in accidents
with Germans. Records of accident investigations that are
maintained by the Highway Patrol have protected a num-
ber of Americans against unjust claims when the case was
taken before a German court for civil action.

Apart from recorded incidents, it is impossible to deter-
mine how many violations of traffic laws, accidents, in-
juries and deaths, as well as losses of property have been
prevented through the mere presence of highway patrols.

Since its formation, the Highway Patrol has worked
under the premise that nobody wants to be arrested and
it has always endeavored to bring about compliance with
the law through unfailing courtesy and ready assistance
to those who travel the public highways. Men of the
patrol have followed this policy with increasing success.

Brig. Gen. John L. McKee, provost marshal, EUCOM,
who has technical supervision of Highway Patrol detach-
ments, declared: “Military Police Highway Patrol activity
charts, covering operations during the period Dec. 15, 1948
through Dec. 31, 1949, show a decided increase in activities
during the second half-year period of operation. It is felt
that this fine record of achievement has resulted from the
experience and seasoning gained by unit commanders
and patrolmen during their first six months of operation.

“This outstanding job of service, prevention and enforce-
ment, should serve as a stimulus to all highway patrol-
men during the remaining winter months to assist them

APRIL 1950

--- Page 60 ---
in preventing many potential highway accidents, resulting
from poor visibility and icy, hazardous road conditions...
It has been gratifying to me, to see how well highway
patrolmen have performed their duties."

XCERPTS FROM SOME of the numerous letters re-
E ceived by Highway Patrol commanders evidence
public appreciation of the patrol service in the US occupied
areas of Germany.

An American woman employee in Germany wrote
Brig. Gen. H. Schwarzkopf, deputy provost marshal,
EUCOM, who organized the Highway Patrol in 1948: “The
Stars and Stripes article stated that you originally planned
the Highway Patrol system. Based on a simple idea, this
is an outstanding example of democracy in action, and is
psychologically sound if the object of traffic police is
preventive rather than punitive. I wanted to thank the
person who thought of it....ever since these patrols
came into being, I have used them in all discussions .... to
make clear the distinction between the system of secret
police traps and informers and the code of justice in which
we believe."

An infantry sergeant wrote to a patrol commander:
“...My lights went out. Highway Patrol car No.7 stopped,
Since the infantryman has no love for the Military Police,
I thought about the routine check... for eveiything that
an MP looks for. Instead the MPs offered to help... with
their spotless uniforms, they went right to work...In a
short time I had lights... I wish you would thank them
for me, and thank you very much...”

A Military Government official wrote: “Through long
association with the Army I have acquired the usual GI

dislike for military policemen, However, an experience...
makes me want to cite two of your young highway patrol-
men for their courtesy, cooperation and efficiency...”

An Army officer reported: “My car broke down on the
superhighway... A patrol car arrived and offered assist-
ance. EES emergency service was not available so an
Ordnance tow truck took my car for safekeeping... The
patrol then gave further help by driving my wife and
myself toward Heidelberg until we met the patrol car from
Heidelberg... which carried us the rest of the way. Both
my wife and I were impressed by the efficient and cour-
teous manner with which assistance was given and we are
grateful for it.”

GERMAN NATIONAL wrote: “I had a bicycle accident

which resulted in a double skull fracture and con-
cussion of the brain. I was found by the Highway Patrol,
which picked me up while I was still unconscious and
brought me to a hospital... thank you for the help — I'm
well on the road to recovery."

A Military Government court clerk reported: “A British
civilian was tried by this court for a traffic violation after
being apprehended by a member of your command...
During and after the trial, the defendant repeatedly praised
the conduct of the patrolman and commented on his
behavior as a ‘thorough gentleman’ as well as his co-oper-
ation. It is felt that such conduct reflects great credit on
the organization."

Nearly 100 such letters of commendation and apprecia-
tion have been received by Highway Patrol detachments.

+END

40,000-Unit Housing Program for Berlin Approved

An extensive housing program in West Berlin, which
will have the dual effect of relieving cramped living
quarters and of absorbing thousands of currently un-
employed workmen, was approved March 7 by Howard
P. Jones, deputy director of Berlin Element HICOG and
ECA representative in Berlin.

The approval was announced as the Marshall Plan
Advisory Committee for Berlin, composed of 16 leading
German financial and economic experts, held its third
meeting at HICOG Berlin headquarters to draft plans
for the use of further ECA counterpart funds to aid the
city’s economy.

Funds for the housing program total DM 35,000,000,
recently made available by the German Federal Republic
from ECA counterpart funds. These credits were part of
a DM 100,000,000 allocation to bolster Berlin's industry,
communications, transportation and housing programs.

Some 40,000 housing units will be made available by
the project, Mr. Jones pointed out. No new housing
Construction is planned because high costs would quickly
dry up available funds. Funds are being directed instead
to repairing and completing three categories of dwellings:

1. Repair of slightly damaged dwellings where less than
DM 700 will render the unit fully habitable.

APRIL 1950

57

2. Repair of war-damaged dwellings where a small in-
vestment, averaging about DM 1,500, will make avail-
able dwelling space now unusable.

3. Completion of multiple dwelling projects, at an
average unit cost of DM 3,000, whose construction was
interrupted by the war.

A detailed program of projects within these three
categories has been submitted by the City Council, re-
viewed by the Marshall Plan Advisory Committee for
Berlin and has now been approved by Mr. Jones.

West Berlin housing facilities, though generally far
superior to those in the Soviet Sector, are still inade-
quate for the more than 2,000,000 population of the
three western sectors. Since the end of the war, room
density has been gradually reduced from 1.7 persons to
1.6 persons, but the effects of the 11-month Soviet
blockade and the continued lack of investment capital
have seriously impeded reconstruction projects.

The program now going into effect will also have the
favorable result of absorbing many thousands of un-
employed workmen in the western sectors, Mr. Jones
declared, as well as spurring the flow of capital into
construction companies, raw material suppliers and
transport organizations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
The publishing of these German edi-
torlals is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The German press as a whole reacted to the Saar
Agreement, mostly in strong, bitter terms. Probably no
issue in the last five years stirred the editorial writers
of Western Germany to such an extent.

Other major topics which elicited widespread comment
were US High Commissioner McCloy's call for a free,
general election this fall; the narrow victory of Labor
over the Tories in England, the Hedler case and, of course,
new developments in the Cold War.

All-German Elections?

Fraenkische Tagespost (Nuremberg, March 3) refer-
ring to Mr. McCloy's proposal of all-German elections
gives a review of developments in the Soviet Zone and
thinks that the plan, however heartily welcomed in the
West zones, cannot be realized.

“,,,All Eastern ‘German Unity’ and ‘National Front’
talks ‘serve only one purpose: to conceal the fact that
the present rulers are backed only by the Occupation
Power and that they know very well that by real, free
elections they would lose the ground on which they
stand. West German Communist organizations are not
trying to make a secret of the dilemma the East zone is
facing and openly declare that, if asked to choose be-
tween German unity and ‘socialistic’ ideas, a Communist
would have to decide in favor of the latter..

“In view of the fact that in the East zone one does
not even trust the CDU and LDP and that ‘purges’ have
to be carried out within these parties, we can easily
understand that all-German elections under four-power
control would mean an immense risk for the Soviet Zone
government, especially as all that had been thoroughly

concealed behind the Iron Curtain for five years would
suddenly be made subject to open and free criticism.

“However ardently we desire the unification of our
people, we cannot overlook the fact that free elections
would be the death of the present East zone government.
And since the SED politicians are not willing to com-
mit suicide, there will be no all-German free elections.”

The Unmasked

Telegraf (British Sector, Berlin, March 3) comments on
the reaction to Mr. McCloy’s demand for nationwide
elections. The paper declares that so far the Kremlin has
not had the courage to give a definite answer to the
demand all-German free elections. The Kremlin would
have to agree to the elections if it were endeavoring to
find a truly democratic solution of the German problem
since there is practically no convincing argument against
all-German elections as a prerequisite for the reunion of
Germany.

The fact that the SED papers are calling Mr. McCloy’s
proposal a victory for the so-called ‘National Front’ is
characteristic of the confusion and embarrassment in the
Communist camp. The paper concludes that whatever the
Communists and their followers do, their rejection of
all-German free elections under four power control of the
type of the Berlin elections of Oct. 20, 1946, has unmasked
them in front of the whole world as enemies of democracy.
Criticism of Allies ,

Die Zeit (Hamburg, Feb. 23) believes that Allied inter-
ference in internal German affairs is based on fear lest
German economic policy be oriented eastward:

German Opinion in Cartoons

{Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Feb. 25)

Reconciliation in principle.
So loaded down with arms they can’t shake hands.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Frankenpost, Hof, Mar. 4)

McCloy: “I demand a unified Germany and general
elections."
Gen. Chuikov: ‘Out of the question! I demand a unified
Germany and general elections."

APRIL 1950

--- Page 62 ---
(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, Feb. 27)

Winner on points.

“A sharp wind is blowing from the Petersberg — and
this time it is official US, French and British policy, not
merely the brainstorm of some subaltern American offical
out of the New Deal era.

“In January the Petersberg primus inter pares, Mr.
McCloy, visited Washington to defend the policy of non-
intervention. He didn’t succeed. Much of what he was
told he repeated in Stuttgart... It becomes evident that
the High Commission will in future not be content to
merely investigate individual measures. It will criticize
the entire trend of events.

“This Allied intervention is primarily actuated by the
fear that German economic policy may gradually become
oriented to the East. Wrong as this thesis is, it may lead
to dangerous consequences. When one works from false
premises one seldom achieves the right goal. If the new
West Power policy really intends to limit German sover-
eignty it will be playing the Kremlin's game.

“Bonn should stress this point rather than querulously
attack the factual and legal justification of Allied inter-
vention, Freedom rather than economic prosperity is the
West's trump card."

Klaus Fuchs

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt, Mar. 2) comments
on the Fuchs case: “Some people may regard Klaus Fuchs
as a tragic figure, a fervent disciple of his convictions,
who was blind to the consequences of the deed he per-
formed. The judgment could not have been milder. No
state of the western world can afford to pass off such an
offense lightly; too much is at stake. The political problem
of the case, however, remains unsolved. The judges con-
firmed that Fuchs was a Communist.

“How was it possible to entrust to a Bolshevist at the
Present time of terrific world political tension the secret
of the most important and horrible weapon of all
times? ... A study of the events of the last 10 years shows
how the dangerous mistake by the authorities for whom
Klaus Fuchs worked, came to pass. He started to work in
his office at the height of the Roosevelt era, when the
Americans and sometimes the British believed to see
meek democratic lambs in Stalin and his followers.

APRIL 1950

59

“The confidence in Klaus Fuchs derived from the same
conviction that took the western statesmen to Yalta...
The consequences are plain. We in the western world
want peace with the Soviets; we should like the tension
to relax today rather than tomorrow. But it is wrong to
expect this goal to be reached by believing Bolshevism
to be kinder than it is and by making it possible for an
ideological Communist to destroy the work of the West
at one of its key positions.”

British Elections

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, Feb. 27) blames the
Liberals for what it considers the abortive elections in
England:

“Several million votes which were uselessly expended
for the Liberals ... robbed the Conservatives of victory...
This tensest of all British election campaigns was fought
as a people's referendum... Essentially the choice lay
between continued socialization and a free economy.
Many dodged the issue by voting Liberal.

“The Conservatives were handicapped because they
rejected Labor economic policy without offering a definite
course of their own to replace it. The Conservatives
lacked an Erhard whereas Labor had a Sir Stafford Cripps.

“To the foreign observer it appears that the Socialist
flood has reached its high point. A clearer Conservative
program would have dammed it...”

A Platonic Law

Wiesbadener Tageblatt (Wiesbaden, Mar. 3) deals with
the new Civil Service Bill which was passed by the
Bundestag, but which is still awaiting the High Commis-
sioners’ approval.

“It is well known that only with distaste will the High
Commissioners attend to the matter,” in particular be-
cause the present bill derives from an old Nazi law, the
paper says.

The paper then asks whether it would not be more
advisable to contact the High Commissioners “before” the
Bundestag starts to debate a bill like this one or the tax
reform bill, and hopes that the Chancellor, following

(Berliner Anzeiger, US Sector, Berlin, Feb. 18)
a ww

SCHOKOLADEN.|
a

Withsun: How the FDJ will conquer Berlin —
by raiding fruit and chocolate shops.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
(Berliner Anzeiger, US Sector, Feb. 19)

AS

Minister for State Security.
Bringing back the Old Boss's picture.

yesterday's negotiations on economic policy and the
unemployment program, which went off well, will suc-
ceed in convincing the High Commissioners of a “provis-
ional" solution of the Civil Service problems.

Under Two Conditions

Badische Zeitung (Freiburg, March 2) referring to Mr.
McCloy’s warning to American officials in Germany to
abstain from any unauthorized criticism, says that Mr.
McCloy not only deserves our recognition; he himself
will profit from his veto in his own endeavors to reach
good confidential relations with German authorities.

“Anonymous ‘spokesmen’ have been blamed who dur-
ing recent months shocked us disagreeably. Relations
between the German government and the Occupation
Powers have been settled by the Occupation Statute.
Principally, control of political decisions is being exer-
cised by the High Commission; the voices of German
officials may have some weight, but only when speaking
officially in the name of the High Commission.

“Conditions now fixed by Mr. McCloy have not always
been observed; one mostly did not know who the spokes-
man was and whether criticism was thought over. This
uncertainty made Germans feel they were unreasonably
‘schoolmastered.'"

Woe to the Vanquished

Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim, Mar. 7) says that the
slightest movement in the direction of independence in
Germany is characterized as reviving nationalism and
that one demands psychological understanding from the
Germans which is seldom in evidence on the other side.

“Allied policy in West Germany since 1945 has been
wrong in almost every particular. In the most important
matters it has achieved exactly the opposite of what it
intended and what could easily have been brought about.

“From denazification to dismantling everything has led
to the present fiasco and as a result all real democrats
and persons of good will in Germany are filled with
desperation.

“The latest piece of stupidity was the Saar Conven-
tion.

“One cannot expect superhuman understanding from
the Germans if one is not oneself prepared to make
conciliatory gestures. It would have been a gesture if the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

Saar’s status quo had been maintained. It is a misfortune
for both countries and for Europe that matters are being
handled by politicians whose main interest is to maintain
their own positions,

“The French government is on the defensive at home
and it is not sovereign enough to take European action.

“On the other hand, for similar reasons, the German
government, due to a situation for which it is not itself
to blame, cannot afford to refrain from a reaction which
is just as natural as it is unwise and thus provide water
for the mills of the anti-democrats in Germany and
chauvinists in France.”

The Greater Aim

Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden, Mar. 7) says, “It is
easy to blame us Germans for the vehemence with which
we reacted to the provisory solution of the Saar problem.
Everything in France is and was ‘provisory,’ but once the
child has been christened it is not provisory any longer,
it is living.

“London and Washington will voice many a warning to
refrain from nationalistic excesses, though the protests of
an amputated person against losing further limbs cannot
be called ‘nationalism.’ Whoever reproaches us without
embitterment must not forget that we have experienced
all this once before, after 1918, and that the then ‘sup-
pressed’ nationalism became Hitler's father...

“The Germans will have no other alternative than to
emphatically stress that ‘just now’ they are not willing
to miss the chance of joining the Council of Europe. This
would be easier if the Bundestag would adjourn its debate
until the Americans will have appealed to France's con-
science (which, we assume, is the purpose of McCloy’s
Germany conference in Washington).

“By a strict ‘No’ to the Saar Germany would stand
alone between East and West, exposed to every Russian
move... Bonn has not the power to prevent the Saar
decision, nor can it agree to it.

“It should pass on to the order of the day, i.e., to
Europe.”

Darmstaedter Echo (Darmstadt, Mar. 7) claims that in
France the officially used word “‘provisoire” usually meant
that a matter was practically already settled. While the
Quai d'Orsay still adheres to the clause in the Saar accord

(Europa Kurier, Aachen, Mar. 3)

The rising flood of unemployment.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 64 ---
that ultimately the Saar question will
be settled when peace with Germany
is signed, the Minister President of
the Saarland, Hoffmann, has defined
the agreement as final.

Radio London's reference to the
new “Saar Republic’ confirmed this
and robbed the German people of all
illusions.

In Twilight

Badische Zeitung (Freiburg in Breis-
gau, Mar. 7) mourns the Saar accord
which was concluded “in twilight and
without a clearly defined legal profile:"

“...For the Federal Republic there is only one issue:
that the Paris Saar structure stands or falls with the future
peace treaty. Neither England and America nor France
can evade this issue..."

Heavy Blow for Europe

Abendpost (Frankfurt, March 4/5) calls the French
accord with the Saar to exploit the Saar coal mines for
50 years a “heavy blow to the conception of a United
Europe”:

“,., Although Paris stresses that the Saar is to remain
autonomous, we Germans are shocked at the French
conception of autonomy. If the French, as may be seen
from the ‘agreement,’ have obtained the right not only
to direct the foreign policy, but also the administration
of the Saar, this so-called ‘autonomy’ becomes highly
questionable...

“France is to get cheap coal from the Saar government
which, after all, has no right to dispose of same, because
it (the coal) does not belong to the Saar Government."

Resolute Resistance

Der Tagesspiegel (US Sector, Berlin, Mar. 3) comments
cn Berlin Mayor Reuter’s statements that the meeting
of the FDJ (East zone youth organization) will not be
allowed in West Berlin:

(Hochland Bote,
Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Feb. 25)

“Don't holler it's too hot. It's
supposed to make you red!"

APRIL 1950

(Abendpost, Frankfurt, Jan. 12)

East-West rapprochement
at German expense.

(Abendpost, Frankfurt, Feb. 27)

Stalin to Red China:
“Your wedding ring is very becoming."

61

“The situation in which Lord Mayor
Reuter made his statement yesterday
resembled that of 13 months ago when
he for the first time talked about the
policy of the newly established City
Council of the former and future
capital of Germany. Though Berlin is
not subject any longer to the Russian
blockade, the pressure of the Com-
munist propaganda and provocation,
the spotlight of which is to be the
FDJ Whitsun meeting, is psychologi-
cally and politically not less important.
Without passion, but very decisively,
Reuter declared that the meeting of
the FDJ will not take place in West Berlin.

“No opponent of liberty will be allowed to lay claim
to more liberty in West Berlin than liberal-minded per-
sons are granted in East Berlin.”

“Reuter's declaration was corroborated by the announ-
cement of the West Berlin commandants and this concord
is still the result of the joint experiences of blockade
times. No criticism only for the sake of criticizing
somebody could be noted and one is tempted to infer
from the course of the assembly that in the parliamen-
tary life of Germany, too, there are those possibilities
which render so fertile the development of British and
American democracy on the basis of the contrast of
political opinions.

“This contrast exists also with regard to the diverse
composition of the Federal Government and the Berlin
City Council.

“There may be differences of opinion but the decisive
factor is that this will be discussed on the basis of the
all-German viewpoint.”

Renaissance of a Kind
Frankfurter Rundschau criticizes the speech delivered
in Bonn on Memorial Day for German war dead. This

(Hochland Bote,
Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Feb. 25)

oot ares

ERSTANQIGUNGS 2iny jy, ORY

East-West
Reconciliation Circus.

“If we only knew if he means to
catch hold!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
speech by the 76-year-old president of the
organization for the upkeep of war graves,
the paper said, was a sample of typically
German phrase-mongery. Herr Ahlhorn stated
that the German soldiers of the last World
War had “sacrificed their lives in the fight
for culture and freedom.”

This was termed “too strong tobacco,” in
comparison to which the National Socialist
slogan of ‘conquering additional Lebensraum
(living space) for the German nation” was
not only more honest, but also nearer to
the truth. The paper held it a good idea to
celebrate each year a Memorial Day for the
war dead which would offer an opportunity
for wise council, such as, for instance, to
tell German youth that it is better to live
for the fatherland, than to die for the expansion-hungry
ambitions of a Hitler.

The old gentleman from Oldenburg meant well, and
was above suspicion of advancing Nazi theories, but he
wallowed in nationalist high-sounding phrases, and when
told afterwards that he forgot to include the victims of
Nazism in his tirade, piously remarked that the graves of
concentration camp victims were not under his organi-
zation's care.

In conclusion the paper welcomes President Heuss's
decision in future not to attend similar functions unless
assured beforehand that he would not have to sanction
reactionary speeches by his presence.

German Scientists in US

Christ und Welt (Stuttgart, 23 Feb.) continues its ex-
position of the profit accruing to the US from German
scientists imported after the war:

“..,The export of these men was conducted by ‘Opera-
tion Paperclip' in disregard of all Fragebogen (question-
naire) formalities...

“The Allies conducted a veritable competitive manhunt
for German scientists. Operation Paperclip paid as little
heed as did the Russians to private wishes in the mat-
ter... Behind the invitations there was always the tacit

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Jan. 26)

om

The taxpaying German cow turns into an enraged bull.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Telegraf, British Sector, Berlin)

The UNO building is de-
veloping differently than
planned by its architects.

62

threat of internment camps. American news-
papers themselves estimate the number
at 2,000.

“Time magazine figures the profit to the
US from German scientists at one billion
dollars. Gen. Putt, commander at Dayton,
puts it at several billion, taking into con-
sideration knowledge gained from secret
trade process papers...

We cannot afford to sell our scientists as
the Princes of Hesse and Hanover once sold
their sons. Those Germans whose services
have been acquired under, let us say, some-
what unusual circumstances and practically
without remuneration, remain German even
if they become American or Canadian citi-
zens and their work and performance must
somehow be compensated for...

“We leave the Soviet Union out of the reckoning.
Compulsory labor is a principle of state there. But surely
it is not the intention of the US and its Allies to give
such principles world-wide validity."

A Wrong Switch

Commenting on General Lucius D. Clay's recommenda-
tion to rearm Germany (published in Life) the Haller
Tagblatt (Halle, Feb, 18) writes:

"Such proposals definitely are going too far for us.
Once before and not lo long ago the unemployment
problem in Germany was solved by rearmament and
reintroduction of the Wehrmacht. We have suffered bit-
terly from the results of such therapies. We do not wish
to experience such a fiasco a second time apart from the
fact that our ‘best troops’ definitely will have no desire
to serve as cannonfodder for the Atlantic Pact nations.

“On the other hand we are positively in favor of the
plans to employ our industry... for peaceful tasks, of
which there is an abundance in West Europe.

“As for our scientists we must state in all modesty that
even American papers admit that approximately 2,000 of
the best German scientists, technicians and specialists
more or less voluntarily emigrated to the US since the
capitulation.” -+END

{Echo der Woche, Munich, Jan. 27)

The last word in Russian wisdom

APRIL 1950

--- Page 66 ---
A Look at the Land

VETERAN representative of the US Department of
Agriculture came to Germany in February, and re-
ported after touring three US Zones states that great
strides had been made in coordinating West Germany's
agricultural research with its farm advisory services.
M.L. Wilson, director of the United States Agricultural
Extension Service, advised West German farmers that
“continued expansion of the farm advisory services, in
which farmers are kept abreast of the latest findings of
agricultural research, is one of the surest means of
overcoming the enormous food problem.”
Mr. Wilson spent three days in Germany as the head
- of three ECA technical assistance teams which are
making thorough surveys of agricultural extension and
advisory services in Marshall Plan countries.
He garnered much comment and many suggestions
from the farmers and ministers with whom he spoke.

ROM WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN's Minister of Agri-
culture Heinrich Stoss, this: “We are mindful of the
aid that the United States has given us as well as our
responsibilities for increasing production as quickly as
possible. We have worked to improve our advisory
system and just recently have established Land. (state)
and Kreise (county) agricultural committees which will
strengthen our program of advisory activities. Practical
farmers have a large place on these committees.
“We appreciate the Demonstration Extension Program
and have included in our 1950-51 budget funds for the

establishment of an institute for agricultural extension
at Hohenheim College.”
From Bavaria’s Minister of Agriculture Dr. Alois

Schloegel: "We in Bavaria feel a fresh wind blowing

‘counry LeveL EDUCATH

ONDVISORY UNITS IN BAI

Problems of rural youth were discussed by Luther J. Pickrel,
agricultural production specialist, Office of the Land Com-
missioner for Bavaria (left), at a two-day community
Activities training conference held recently in Munich for
US Resident Officers and German consultants. (OLCB photo)

APRIL 1950

63

Flanked by the Ministers of Agriculture of Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Bavaria, Director M. L. Wilson of the United
States Agricultural Extension Service grins at guests at
banquet honoring him during February in Stuttgart. At left,
Dr. Heinrich Stooss, the host; right, Dr. Alois Schloegl.
Mr. Wilson toured both states, talked with many farmers.

in the field of agriculture. We are moving rapidly to
improve our system of agricultural schools, our ad-
visory service and our work in livestock improvement."

Members of the community committees of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, set up to plan programs for the Extension
Demonstration Program, acknowledged that “convincing
our neighbors of new methods is ‘schwer' (difficult), but
we will keep working at it.”

R. WILSON PRAISED. the program for the inclusion

of farmers themselves in its mechanism. He ex-
pressed the belief that there must be better schooling for
farm youth, stronger programs for home economics ex-
tension, and more intensified efforts to meet the prob-
lems of the farmer of extremely modest means. He
concluded by saying: ‘Our program must be built to
meet the needs of the small farm family. We must get
the information to them in such a form that they will

use it.” -++END

68,000 New Businesses in Hesse

More than 68,000 new businesses were opened in
Hesse during 1949, the first year that business openings
were free from licensing. According to Stanley H. Sisson,
OLC Hesse economic affairs chief. During the same
period, more than 15,000 enterprises closed down.

With more than 21,000 openings and 5,700 closings,
the handicraft trade represented the bulk of Hesse’s
new businesses.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
(Continued from page 35)
*“‘What Do You Think?”

of interviewing the man in the street is an effective
lever for the democratic reorientation of German think-
ing. And this is no minor matter when it is appreciated
that democratic orientation is so difficult and the means
are so few. Direct persuasion to take over democratic
values has had no easy time with the large numbers of
Germans who are loath to part with their more author-
itarian traditions — this fact poll results have rather
amply documented. Sending selected Germans to America
for brief periods to rub elbows with democracy is an
auspicious tack and has no doubt achieved considerable
success, It is, however, impractical to send every Ger-
man to America — only a few leaders can be selected. But
the practice of polling helps democratize the rank and file.

JOLLING AND AUTHORITARIANISM do not mix

well. People begin ‘to learn that their opinions are
important — and begin to like giving their opinion and
finding out what their fellows are thinking. With such
experiences it becomes harder for a government to
foist autocratic arbitrary measures on the populace.
Moreover the experience of being polled and of reading

about public opinion on issues of the day helps to build
the interest in political participation that is so des-
perately lacking in Germany today.

So the development of sound polling organizations in
Germany is more than a matter of narrow importance
to the survey profession. Polling directly fosters political
interest and democratic thinking. And, very importantly,
it is the type of democratic reorientation program that
can go on working after the occupation leaves. If
soundly established it will not die when the last occu-
pation official sails for home.

But only if soundly established. This condition cannot
be overemphasized. Nothing is more certain than that
polling will die in Germany if it begins to be exploited
in biased ways for dubious ends. The methods and uses
must be above reproach if the German people are not
to turn against it as another variant in the all too
familiar inquisitorial tradition.

It thus becomes a particularly grave responsibility of
the Reactions Analysis Branch to exert its efforts to
the utmost to foster the development of sound demo-
cratic polling and to forestall unhealthy developments.
Success in these efforts could mean a lasting contribu-
tion to the democratic reconstruction of German political

, life. -+-END

Index to Opinion Surveys

Reports, issued by the Reactions Analysis Branch and
now listed as “unclassified’’ with number and date of
issue, are:

Number Title Date
1 Radio Listening in Germany — Winter 1946 Mar. 1, 46
2 Who in Germany Has Read Mein Kampi Mar. 46
3 Some Political Attitudes Probed on Recent
Surveys. Mar, 15, 46
4 Incomes and ‘Expenditures. of German Fa-
milies in the American Zone — Winter 1946 Mar. 25, 46
5 Special Political Survey — Winter 1946 Apr. 1, 46
6 Law No. 3 (Registration at Labor Offices) Apr. 20, 46
7 Reactions to Recent Revisions in the De-
nazification Program . . s+ + 4 May 11, 46
8 Reactions to the New Tax Laws . June 1, 46
9 Attitudes toward Religion and the Church
as Political Factors in German Life . . . June 7, 46
10 Attitudes toward Politics as a Career for
the Coming Generation in Germany. . . June 21, 46
11 German Attitudes toward Trade Unions . June 27, 46

12 Attitudes of Some Bavarian School Children June 28, 46
13. A Preliminary Study of Book Reading in

Germany . June 28, 46
14 Mail to Stimme Amerikas (Voice of America) July 6, 46
14-A German Attitudes toward the Expulsion

of German Nationals from Neighboring

Countries . . July 8, 46
15 Relative Effects of Food Scarcity | in Two

Countries . . . July 27, 46
16 Press Release; German Opinion about ‘the

Nuremberg Trials. . . Aug. 7, 46

17 Attitudes toward International ‘Leadership

in Germany Compared with Attitudes in

Seven Other Countries. . . Aug. 8, 46
18 A Study of Food Consumption and Attitudes

toward Rationing and General Health of

the Population . . Aug. 14, 46
19 Basic Attitudes Explored by the “German

Attitude Scale... Aug. 19, 46
20 ~=Preliminary Study of Motion Picture Atten-

dance and Attitudes. . . +. + Aug. 27, 46

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Number Title Date
21 Attitude toward Licensed Newspapers in
Some American Occupied Areas . . Sept. 25, 46

22 A Study of Attitudes toward the Recon-
struction and Rehabilitation of Germany
23 The Viennese Newspapers— An Opinion
Research Study. . Oct. 22, 46
24 Mannheim Attitudes toward Negro Troops Oct. 22, 46
25 German Knowledge about and Attitudes
toward Inflation . . Nov. 8, 46
26 Information about State Constitutions and
Intention to Vote in the Constitutional

Sept. 25, 46

Elections . . Nov. 13, 46
27 German-. ‘American ‘Relations | in * Germany;
Frequencies of Group Contacts. . . Nov. 13, 46

28 An Investigation to Determine Any Changes
in Attitude of Native Germans toward the

Expellees in Wuerttemberg-Baden. . . Nov. 14, 46
29° +TheTrend of Cares and Worries in Germany Nov. 21, 46
30 Radio Listening in Vienna. . .... Dec. 14, 46
31 The Standard of Living. . Dec. 14, 46
32 Income, Expenditures and Currency Holding

of the German Population. . Dec. 10, 46
33 The Trend of Public Reactions to the Nu-

remberg Trials . . . Dec. 18, 46

34 Attitude toward Licensed | Newspapers. in
Some American-Occupied Areas

(Supplementary to Report 21) . . . . . Dec. 28, 46
35 Attitudes of Trade Union Members . . . Jan. 5, 47
36 The German People and Social Classes . Jan. 11, 47
37 Opinions of Newspaper Readers . . Jan. 13, 47
38 <A Preliminary Study of Changes in Job

Status... Jan. 14, 47
39 Reactions to and Penetration of Ynforma-

tion Media in Vienna . . . . Jan. 14, 47
40. Austrian Economic Difficulties and Atti-

tudes toward Economic Problems. . . Jan. 21, 47
41 Attitudes toward General EconomicProblems Jan. 15, 47
42 The Trend of Rumors . . Feb. 5, 47
43 Readership of Heute, Amerikanische Rund-

schau and Neue Auslese . . . Feb. 5, 47
44 Opinions of German Community — Leaders

on International Affairs . . . . . . . Feb. 6, 47

APRIL 1950

--- Page 68 ---
Number Title Date Number Title Date
45 Radio Listening in the American Zone and 84 Who Are the Expellees? And What Do
in Berlin Feb. 17, 47 They Think? . : Dec. 17, 47
46 Army Aid to German Youth Activities Eval 85 Summary of Trends of German Public Opinion Dec. 17, 47
uated by German Adults ... . Feb. 19, 47 86 Summary of Reactions to the End of the
47 Opinions on the Expellee Problem . Feb. 20, 47 London Conference & su © ative yee Dey. 19, 47
48 German Attitudes toward Freedom of Speech Mar. 3, 47 87 The Trend of German Attitudes toward
49 Anti-Semitism in the American Zone Mar. 3, 47 Allied Cooperation Jan. 9, 48
50 <A Pilot Study on Displaced Persons . Mar. 20, 47 88 German Opinion on the People’s Part in
51 Attitudes toward Collective Guilt in the Political Affairs : Jan. 20, 48
American Zone of Germany. . Apr. 2, 47 89 Reception of the Pamphlet “Offen gesagt”
52 Attitudes toward Food, Fuel and Building (Frankly Speaking) by a Shegiali Panel of
Material Conditions . . Mar, 27, 47 Representative Germans Jan. 22, 48
53 Magazine Reading in the American Zone Apr. 8, 47 92 Readers of Mein Kampf : Feb. 9, 48
54 Viennese Reactions to New Denazification 93 The Cream of the Crop (Fort Getty Study) Feb. 11, 48
Laws 4 Apr. 8, 47 94 Contacts between Germans and Americans Feb, 24, 48
55 Public Attitudes’ toward Denazification 6 Apr. 15, 47 95 Appraisal of the Content of Education and
56 German Children Appraise the Youth Program Apr. 26, 47 Educational Facilities in Berlin and Stuttgart Feb, 25, 48
57. Readership and Populersy of the Frankfurt 96 German Youth Versus Adults on Question
Newspapers Apr. 29, 47 of Democracy aig eae tay 8 LM) ty, Ch Maw.) RAB:
58 Confidence in News in Present- -Day Ger- 97 Berlin Reactions to Nagy's Pamphlet
many “ . May 1, 47 “Machtraub in Ungarn” (Robbery of Power
59 Expectations regarding Reparations May 10, 47 in Hungary) . » . Mar, 3, 48
60 Trends in German Public Opinion . Apr. 47 98 Government by Politicians, Experts, or the
61 Some Attitudes toward the School System People? : s+ 4 4 4 Mar. 6, 48
in Wuerttemberg-Baden June 12, 47 99 A Report on German. Youth : Mar. 5, 48
62 German Attitudes toward a Peace Treaty 100 TREND... Mar. 48
after the Conclusion of the Moscow Con- 101. German Youth and Adults View Individual
ference. . . CGS & an Bike, sen ane dd, 4F Responsibility : Mar. 24, 48
63 German Opinion toward the Prospective 102. Patronage of US Information Centers” + Mar, 24, 48
Peace Treaty. Aug. 8, 47 103 Readership of Political Books and meets Mar. 24, 48
64 Trends in Attitudes toward the Food Situation Aug. 25, 47 104. The Marshall Plan in Prospect Mar. 24, 48
65 Attitudes of Bavarians toward Loritz’s Dis- 105 Internationalism in Germany . . «« “Mar. 27,°48
missal Sept. 27, 47 106 The Radio Audience in US Zone, Berlin
66 German ‘Attitudes toward Corporal Punish- and Bremen . Mar. 27, 48
ment . Sept. 27, 47 107 Public Reception of the Bizonal Adminis-
67 German Attitudes toward International tration ee eg, Tae Mar, 29, 48
Leadership Oct. 10, 47 108 Magazine Readers « Mar, 29, 48
68 Trends inAttitudes toward National Socialism Oct. 10, 47 109 The Effect of Foreign Travel ¢ on Knowledge
69 German Opinions regarding the Organi- and Attitudes ; Apr. 5, 48
zation of Europe Oct. 16, 47 110 Bremen Attitudes Compared with Berlin
70 German Understanding of ‘the Reasons ‘for and US Zone Apr. 15, 48
the Food Shortage . » Oct. 17, 47 111 Attitudes toward the Bavarian Party . Apr. 9, 48
71 Berlin—A Symbol of a National ‘State ~ pOCt./ 17, 47 112 Reactions to a Foreign Policy Pamphlet Apr. 12, 48
72 A Report on German Morale .» Nov. 47 113. US Zone Attitudes and Information about
74 Attitudes of US Zone Germans toward Russia . ae Apr. 15, 48
Government and Politics Oct. 27, 47 114 Germans Assay ‘Their Freedoms Apr. 23, 48
75 What Berliners Expect from the London 115 The “Advertising Pillar as an Information
Conference Oct. 28, 47 Medium ‘ Apr. 26, 48
76 German Attitudes ‘toward ‘the Four Occu: 116 The Moving Picture ‘Audience in us Zone Apr. 28, 48
pying Powers . «Oct. 29,,47 118 Newspaper Readership . . ¥ May 3, 48
77 Opinions on the Press in the American 119 Cumulative Impact of the Mass" Media + + May 10, 48
Zone of Germany. . . + +. Nov.’ 5, 47 120 German Opinions on Daylight Saving Time May 20, 48
78 Bavarian Attitudes toward "Newspapers Nov 6, 47 121. Uniformity of Religious Preferences in US
80 Opinions on Denazification ; Nov. 26, 47 Zone Communities . . May 19, 48
81 Germam Reactions to Expellees and. DPs 5 Dec. 3, 47 124 Social Characteristics of the German People
82 German Sentiment for Peace and Economic in the American Zone and in Berlin (peti
Security x Dec. 8, 47 and American Sectors) . . June 1, 48
83 Hewspeper Readership and Newscast Lis- 126 Religious Instruction in the Schools 5 . June 29, 48
tening 1 8h Mesh GAS eeK o Det. 947 127 - Some Opinions on the University of Berlin July 8, 48

Answers are punched onto IBM cards,
Sorting machines.

then run through
Results are percentaged, analyzed.

Completed questionnaires go to coding room where an-
swers are classified and prepared for machine tabulation.

APRIL 1950 INFORMATION BULLETIN

65

--- Page 69 ---
Number Title Date
129 Reactions of a Panel of Readers to the

Pamphlet ‘Mit vereinten Kraeften’’ (With

Combined Forces). . July 19, 48
130 Berlin Reactions to the Air’ Lift “and ‘the

Western Powers : July 23, 48
131 Germans View the London | Conference Pro-

posals 5 5 0 Aug. 4, 48
132 Some ‘Aspects of Morale in Berlin Aug. 10, 48
133 Reactions toward Currency Reform in the

US Zone of Germany . Aug. 10, 48
134 Some Trends in Berlin Morale with Side-

lights on Recreation. . . Sept. 2, 48
135 Radio Listening in Berlin since the Blockade Sept. 13, 48
136 Attitudes toward a Government for Western

Germany . . toes Sept. 21, 48
137 The Munich Movie Audience . Sept. 21, 48
138 Newspaper Reading in Berlin since Cur:

rency Reform and the Blockade 5 Sept. 18, 48
139 Chief Cares and Worries since the Cur:

rency Reform . . Sept. 22, 48
140 Opinions on Proposed Withdrawal of Four

Occupying Powers . Sept. 24, 48
141 Berlin Attitudes on the ‘air Lift al ” Burther

Trends . oe . Oct. 4, 48
142 Attitudes toward JEIA oe Oct. 5, 48
143. Government or Administration for Western

Germany . : Oct. 14, 48
144 US Zone Germans View the Air Lift | . Oct. 26, 48
145 The America House in Five German Cities Nov. 1, 48
146 The Problem of Cleanliness in Present-Day

Germany . Nov. 13, 48
147 How Berliners Expect and. Want the ‘Crisis

Settled, with Their Recommendations Nov. 17, 48
148 Radio Bremen — Evaluated by Bremen

Listeners + Nov. 30, 48
149 Trends and Present Attitudes on the’ Mar-

shall Plan . Dec. 10, 48
150 Attitudes and Resources of. Berliners” as

They Look Forward to a Blockaded Winter Dec. 15, 48
151 Security Versus Freedom in Blockaded Berlin Dec. 18, 48
152 US Zone Views Its Civil Service: 1. Reli-

gion and Party Membership as a Factor

in Government Employment . Jan. 24, 49
153 Book Reading in the US Zone, Berlin and

Bremen . . Jan, 26, 49
154 Opinions on Die Neue Zeitung” Feb. 3, 49
155 The Town Hall Meeting in Reilingen. . . Feb. 3, 49
156 US Zone Views Its Civil Service: 2. Men

Versus Women in Public Employ Feb. 9, 49
157 Opinions on the Work Stoppage in Bavaria Feb. 3, 49
158 Bremen Views the Picturama America To-

day, a Pilot Study on Audience Reactions Feb. 4, 49
159 Bavarian Reactions to Town Hall Meetings

and Public Forums . Feb. 11, 49
160 Germans Consider the Withdrawal of the

Occupying Powers o Feb. 23, 49

Number Title Date

161 Some German Opinions on Occupation Costs Feb. 24, 49

162 Characteristics of Natives and Refugees in
US Zone in 1948 . Mar. 4, 49

163 Social Characteristics of the German People
in Bavaria, Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden Mar. 7, 49

164 US Zone Views Its Civil Service: 3. Prestige
Value of Government Work. . Apr. 2, 49

165 Opinions on Fusion in Waertiemberg and
Baden Apr. 22, 49

166 Public Attitudes toward Postwar “German
Police; 1. General Appraisals . . Apr. 25, 49

167 Public Attitudes toward Postwar German

Police: 2. Awareness of Civil Rights Versus
Police Powers D Apr. 25, 49
168 West Berlin's Reaction to a Single Currency Apr. 27, 49

169 German Appraisal of Lastenausgleich (Pro-
jected Program to Equalize War Losses) . May 6, 49

170 German Attitudes toward Economic and
Political Strikes May 16, 49

171 Characteristics and Attitudes of the Ger-

man Movie Audience: 1. Impact of Cur-
rency Reform on Attendance May 23, 49

172 Characteristics and Attitudes of the German

Movie Audience: 2. Most Popular Type of
Movie . . May 23, 49

173 Characteristics and Attitudes of the Ger-

mian Movie Audience: 3. German Versus
American Films . May 18, 49

174 Hessians Consider the Effect ‘of ‘Lifting ‘the
Blockade on the West German Government May 27, 49
175 Trends in German Public Opinion . . June 49
178 Germans View the Ruhr Statute June 49

179 German Desires and Expectations on Future
Ownership of the Ruhr Factories . . July 1, 49
180 Bonn and Berlin, German Capitals . July 1, 49
181 The RIAS Audience in Western Berlin . July 7, 49

183 People in Three Hessian Cities Consider Their
Reconstruction Problems 5 0 July 21, 49

188 Characteristics and Attitudes of the Ger-

man Movie Audience: 4. Appraisal of Movie
Influences . Sept. 1, 49

189 The Public Compares Present’ and Past
Economic Conditions Sept. 21, 49
190 The Marshall Plan and Western “Germany - Oct, 17, 49

191 The State of German Political Interest at
the Outset of the West German Republic Dec. 9, 49

Series 2:

1 The State of German Nationalism following
the Founding of the West German Republic Dec. 30, 49

5 West Berliners Appraise Present Economic
and Political Situation 5 Feb, 20, 50

6 The German Public Views the Conduct of
the US Occupation Forces 5 Mar. 6, 50
+ END

HICOG Halts Further Transfers to Bonn

No additional elements of the Office of the US High
Commissioner for Germany will move from Frankfurt to
the Bonn area for the time being, it has been decided on
the basis of a special study ordered by the US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy.

Instead, it was determined that the High Commissioner
and most of his chief advisers will be in the Bonn area,
seat of the Allied High Commission and the German
Federal Republic, on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday
of each week. The plan is for tripartite committee
meetings and negotiations to be conducted in as far
as practicable there during these three days.

These were the recommendations of a committee of
four, with Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, deputy US high
commissioner, as chairman, which studied the question

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

of minimizing travel between Frankfurt and the German
capital by American officials.

The committee also recommended that during the
other days of the week, the High Commissioner and
his staff will be in Frankfurt to handle unilateral matters
and prepare for tripartite negotiations.

The committee left open the way for a later move to
Bonn of certain members of the US staff whose duties
demand practically full time presence there. At the end
of the two-month trial period, it is proposed that another
study be made to determine whether it would be ad-
visable to increase the US permanent staff at Bonn.

The study was requested early in February to deter-
mine whether any change is desirable in the methods
or operations between Frankfurt and Bonn.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 70 ---
Official Communiques

Meeting of HICOM Feb. 16

The 16th meeting of the Allied High
Commission was held Feb. 16 at the Peters-
berg, near Bonn, Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner (chair-
man), Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French
High Commissioner, and Mr. C. E. Steel,
UK Deputy High Commissioner, acting for
Sir Brian Robertson,

The Council signed an Allied High Com-
mission law amending legislation concern-
ing Land (State) Central Banks, to extend
from March 1, 1950, until March 1, 1952,
the period within which the ministers of
finance are required to dispose of the
stocks of these banks to those credit in-
stitutions which are required to maintain
minimum reserves.

Legislation on Land Central Banks was
harmonized within the three zones on
April 15, 1949, by US Military Govern-
ment Law No, 66, United Kingdom Mili-
tary Government Ordinance No. 132 and
French Military Government Ordinance
No. 209, Section 10 of this legislation,
which is being amended by the present
law, establishes the amount of capital for
each Land Central Bank to be issued in
the form of stock, the initial subscription
of which is to be made by the state
government. It further provides that the
stocks so acquired by the state govern-
ment shall be sold prior to March 1, 1950,
to cooperative, private and public law
credit institutions required to maintain
minimum reserves.

The Land Central Banks have been
unable to dispose of their stock to credit
institutions because the latter's earnings
in a tight capital market are insufficient
to permit them to purchase the full issue
of Land Bank stock.

The Council decided to hold its next
mecting on Feb. 23, 1950, at the Petersberg.

Meeting of HICOM Feb. 23

The 17th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Feb. 23
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Mr. John J. McCloy, US High Commis-
sioner (chairman), Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner, and
Mr. C. E. Steel, UK Deputy High Com-
missioner, acting for Sir Brian Robertson.

The Council:

_ (1) Agreed to requests from the Austra-
lian, Brazilian and Norwegian governments
for the accreditation of designees to
head their respective missions to the
Allied High Commission. The designees
accepted are Mr. Noel St. Clair Des-
champs, Australia; Mr. Mario de Pimentel
Brandao, Brazil; and Mr. Alfred Danielsen,
Norway,

It was agreed that arrangements should
be made for the formal presentation of
these heads of missions, as well as of Mr.
Nizamettin Ayasli, head of the Turkish
mission, to the Council on March 16, 1950.
_ Mr. Deschamps presently is performing
similar functions in Germany as acting
need of the Australian military mission in
aati Mr. Pimentel Brandao has been

Tazilian delegate on the Emergency

APRIL 1950

Advisory Committee for Political Defense
of the Continent at Montevideo since 1948.
Mr. Danielsen at present is envoy extra-
ordinary and minister plenipetentiary for
Norway in Warsaw.

(2) Noted that a delegation of the
Netherlands Parliament would visit Bonn
on March 6 to observe labor, social and
economic conditions and to discuss prob-
lems of mutual interest to the Netherlands
and Germany.

(3) Agreed to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on March 1, 1950 and to
meet the federal chancellor on the
following day.

Meeting of HICOM March 2

The 18th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held March 2
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (chairman), Sir Brian H.
Robertson, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner, and Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Reached agreement in principle on
the occupation costs budget for 1950/51
and instructed its financial advisers to
prepare the budget in its final form for
transmission to the federal authorities. It
decided that details of the budget would
be published after it had been received
by the federal authorities.

(2) Signed an Allied High Commission
law on control of materials, facilities and
equipment relating to atomic energy. (For
text see ‘‘Laws and Regulations."')

(3) Noted the appointment of Mr. Wal-
ter Hoag (US), as director general of the
Joint Export-Import Agency which is now
in process of liquidation.

(4) Decided to hold its next meeting on
March 9 at the Petersberg.

Meeting of HICOM March 9

The 19th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held March 9
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (Chairman), Mr. C. E. Steel,
United Kingdom Deputy High Commis-
sioner, acting for Sir Brian Robertson, and
Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, United States
Deputy High Commissioner, acting for
Mr. John J. McCloy.

The Council considered a number of
current matters among which were the
future relationship between Western Ger-
many and the Bank of Intennational Set-
tlements, the determination of customs
tariffs, notification of occupation costs
budget, Netherlands claims for the return
of river craft, accreditation of new for-
eign missions, powers of the decarteliza-
tion and industrial deconcentration group
of the High Commission and German parti-
cipation in a_conference of the Interna-
tional Labor Organization on migration to
be held on April 25 at Geneva.

The Council agreed to hold its next
meetings at the Petersberg on March 16,
1950.

67

Laws and Regulations

Law on Control of Materials,
Facilities and Equipment
Relating to Atomic Energy

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Part I
Prohibited Activities

Article 1

1. On or after April 1, 1950, no person
sha

a. Produce deuterium gas and metallic
beryllium, thorium and uranium.

b. Construct or erect nuclear reactors,
chain reacting piles or facilities capable
of separating isotopes of uranium with a
yield potential in excess of one milligram
of U-235 per 24 hours.

c. Manufacture or construct . electro-
nuclear machines capable of imparting
energies in excess of 100,000,000 electron
volts to a positively charged nuclear
particle or to an ion.

2, Except as authorized by the Military
Security Board or as provided in this law,
on or after April 1, 1950, no person shall
purchase, procure, receive, possess, use,
store, sell, dispose of, import or export the
materials and equipment specified in para-
graph 1 of this Article,

Article 2

1, Except as authorized by the Military
Security Board or as provided in this law,
on or after April 1, 1950, no person shall
produce, manufacture, mine, process, con-
struct, erect, purchase, procure, receive,
possess, use, store, sell, dispose of, import
or export the following (hereinafter refer-
red to as prohibited articles):

a. Metals, alloys, compounds and pro-
ducts containing uranium or thorium, in-
cluding but not limited to:

(1) Uranium acetate.

(2) Uranium nitrate.

(3) Uranium oxide or dioxide.

(4) Sodium uranate.

(5) Thorium nitrate.

(6) Thorium dioxide (thoria).

(7) Thoriated tungsten wire and prod-
ucts containing such wire.

b. Beryl and ores, alloys, oxides and
compounds in all forms containing beryl-
lium with exception of fabricated alloys
and of beryl of gem grade.

c. Heavy water, heavy paraffin and
other compounds of or derived from
deuterium.

d. Purified graphite produced from petro-
leum coke and products containing such
graphite,

e. Raw or processed source materials
which contain by weight at least one-
twentieth of one percent (0.05%) of
uranium or of thorium or of both, in-
cluding but not limited to:

(1) monazite, sand and other ores con-
taining thorium:

(2) carnotite, pitchblende and other ores
containing uranium;

f. Rare earth metals, compounds, mix-
tures and products containing at least one-
quarter of one percent (0.25%) by weight
of uranium or of thorium or of both;

g. Naturally and artificially radioactive
compounds and materials and radium
compounds.

h. Facilities capable of separating iso-
topes of uranium with a yield potential

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
not in excess of one milligram of U-235
per 24 hours.

i, Cyclotrons, Van de Graaf machines
(electrostatic generators), synchrocyclo-
trons, linear accelerators and other elec-
tronuclear machines capable of impart-
ing energies in excess of 1,000,000 electron
volts to a positively charged nuclear par-
ticle or to an ion, but not capable of
so imparting energies in excess of
100,000,000 electron volts;

j. Radiation detection instruments de-
signed or capable of being ‘adapted for
detection or measurement of nuclear radi-
ations, such as alpha and beta particles,
gamma radiations, neutrons and protons,
including, but not limited to the fol-
lowing, and the major components pecu-
liar to such instruments:

(1) Geiger-Mueller, proportional or par-
allel plate counter-scolers.

(2) Geiger-Mueller or proportional coun-
ter rate meters.

(3) All types of scalers adaptable to
radiation detection.

(4) Geiger-Mueller or proportional de-
tectors, whether audio or mechanical.

(5) Integrating ionization chamber meters
and ionization chamber rate meters.

(6) Geiger-Mueller, proportional or par-
allel plate counter-detectors.

(7) Micromicrocammeters and galvano-
meters capable of measuring currents of
less than 1.0 micromicroamperes.

(8) Counter pulse rate meters.

(9) High gain, high impedance linear
pulse amplifiers.

(10) Geiger-Mueller quenching units.

(11) Geiger-Mueller or proportional coin-
cidence units.

(12) Pocket and survey type electrosco-
pes and electrometers, including dosi-
meters but excluding simple metal leaf
electroscopes.

(13) Pocket type chambers with electro-
meter charger-reader.

(14) Electrometer type electronic tubes
with input grid currents of less than 1.0
micromicroamperes.

(15) Resistors having values in excess
of 1,000 megohms.

k. Mass spectrometers and mass spec-
trographs and components peculiar to
such instruments, including but not lim-
ited to:

(1) Mass spectrometer or spectrograph
type ion sources.

(2) Acceleration and focusing tubes.

(3) Ionization chambers.

(4) Micromicroammeters.

(5) Electrometer type electronic tubes
with input grid currents of less than
1.0 micromicroamperes.

1, Mass spectrometer type lead detectors.

m. Vacuum diffusion pumps having a
diameter, measured inside the barrel at
inlet jet, in excess of 12 inches (305 milli-
meters) or capable of a pumping speed
in excess of 1,500 liters per second at
a pressure of less than 0.0001 millimeters
of mercury.

n, X-ray generators having a capacity
in excess of 150,000 volts.

o. Betatrons and synchrotrons.

p. Special analytical instruments of the
following types:

(1) Spectrophotometers.

(2) Microphotometers.

(3) Spectrographs.

2. The prohibitions contained in para-
graph 1 of this Article, other than the
prohibitions against producing, manufac-
turing, mining and processing, shall not
apply with respect to the following:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

a. Slightly radioactive substances of
general commercial use.

b. Incandescent mantels containing pro-
hibited articles.

c. Optical glass containing prohibited
articles,

d. Fluorescent lighting devices
taining prohibited articles.

e. Ceramics and refractories containing
prohibited articles.

f. Thoriated tungsten wire contained in
electronic valves,

g. Potassium and rubidium of natural
isotopic constitution and their compounds.

h. Alloys containing less than four per-
cent by weight of beryllium.

i. Any finished product which contains
as integral components resistors having
values in excess of 1,000 megohms, if the
finished product is not otherwise subject
to the provisions of this law or to the
provisions of Control Council Law No. 43.

con-

Part II
General Authorizations
Article 3

1. Any research establishment engaged
in research permitted under or authorized
pursuant to United States Military Gov-
emment Law No. 23, British Military
Government Law No. 23 or French Mili-
tary Government Ordinance No. 231 (here-
imafter referred to as the Scientific Re-
search Laws) may in the course of con-
ducting such research, produce, construct,
erect, possess, use and store prohibited
articles, provided that:

a. Such activities are normal to the
conduct of the research,

b. The quantities of prohibited articles
are not in excess of the quantities nor-
mally necessary for such research.

c. The prohibited articles are used solely
within the research establishment for the
performance of permitted or authorized
research,

d. The prohibited articles are kept in
the custody and control of a responsible
official or employee of the research estab-
lishment.

2, Any educational or medical establish-
ment may, in the performance of its
functions and subject to the provisions
of the Scientific Research Laws, produce,
construct, erect, possess, use and ‘store
prohibited articles, provided that:

a. Such activities are normal
performance of such functions,

b, The quantities of prohibited articles
are not in excess of the quantities nor-
mally necessary to the performance of
such functions.

c. The prohibited articles are used solely
within the establishment in the perfor-
mance of the normal functions of that
establishment.

d. The prohibited articles are kept in
the custody and control of a responsible
official or employee of the establishment.

3. Any museum may possess, store and
use for display and demonstration pur-
poses prohibited articles, provided that:

a. The prohibited articles are of types
normally displayed or demonstrated in
such a museum.

b. The quantities of prohibited articles
are not in excess of quantities normally
displayed or required for demonstration.

c. The prohibited articles are kept in
the custody and control of a responsible
official or employee of the museum,

4, The Occupation Authorities may with-
draw from any establishment the privi-

to the

68

leges under this Article if they determine
that the establishment has not complied
with the conditions laid down herein.

Article 4

1. Every research establishment shall
include in each report submitted pursuant
to any of the Scientific Research Laws on
March 31 and Sept. 30 of each year an
inventory of prohibited articles held by
it and a detailed statement as to the
acquisition (through production or other-
wise), disposal and consumption of such
prohibited articles during the period to
which the report pertains.

2. On or before May 15, 1950, and at
six-month intervals thereafter, every edu-
cational or medical establishment engag-
ing in activities pursuant to paragraph 2
of Article 3, shall file with the minister
president of the state in which such acti-
vities are carried on an inventory of
the prohibited articles held by such
establishment. Except with respect to the
inventory filed on or before May 15, 1950,
each inventory shall be accompanied by
a detailed statement as to the acquisition
(through production or otherwise), dis-
posal and consumption of such prohibited
articles during the six-month period pre-
ceding the date of the inventory. Such
inventories and statements shall be
signed by a responsible official of the
establishment, shall be in the German
language unless otherwise directed, and
shall be filed in sextuplicate and in such
form as may be directed by the Military
Security Board or, in the absence of
such directive, by the minister president
of the state. The minister president shall
forthwith transmit to the Military Security
Board four copies of each inventory and
statement submitted to him. Each minister
president shall take such action as may
be necessary to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this paragraph.

Part Ill
Transitional Authorizations
Article 5

1, Subject to restrictions imposed pur-
suant to other legislation:

a. Consignors of prohibited articles in
transit on April 1, 1950, may sell, dispose
of and export those articles prior to
May 31, 1950.

b. Consignees of prohibited articles in
transit on April 1, 1950, may purchase,
procure, receive and import those articles
prior to May 31, 1950.

c. Such consignees and consignors may
possess and store the prohibited articles
referred to in subparagraphs a and b
above until otherwise ordered pursuant
to paragraph 5 of this Article.

2. Persons possessing or storing pro-
hibited articles on April 1, 1950, may con-
tinue to possess and store such articles
until otherwise ordered pursuant to para-
graph 5 of this Article.

3. Persons who in the normal course
of business were, immediately before
April 1, 1950, engaged in any of the
activities prohibited by paragraph 2 of
Article 1 or by Article 2 of this law
may continue to engage in such activities,
other than exporting and importing, until
April 15, 1950. If, on or before April 15,
1950, any such person shall have made
application in the manner prescribed in
Article 6 of this law for authorization to
engage in such activities, such person
may continue to engage therein until

APRIL 1950

--- Page 72 ---
May 31, 1950. If, on or before May 31,
1950, a copy of the application endorsed
by the state commissioner shall have been
received by the applicant, he may con-
tinue to engage in such activities pend-
ing decision by the Military Security
Roard with respect to the application.
Any such person who has submitted such
an application, but who on or before
May 31, 1950, shall not have received
such an endorsed copy, may continue to
possess and store such prohibited articles
as may be possessed or stored by such
person on May 31, 1950, until otherwise
ordered pursuant to paragraph 5 of this
Atticle.

4, Persons possessing or storing pro-
hibited articles pursuant to paragraph 1, 2
or 3 of this Article shall forthwith sub-
mit an inventory of such articles in sex-
tuplicate to the minister president in the
Land in which such articles are located.
The inventory shall state the name and
address of the person possessing or stor-
ing, the nature and quantities of the
piohibited articles possessed or storéd,
and the location of such articles. The
minister president shall forthwith trans-
mit to the Military Security Board four
copies of each inventory submitted to him.

5. The Military Security Board may issue
orders for the disposal of any such pro-
hibited articles.

PartIV
Procedure Relating to Applications

Article 6

1. Any person who proposes to engage
in any activity prohibited by paragraph 2
of Article 1 or by Article 2, other than
importing and exporting, shall file an
application for authorization with the
minister president of each state in which
he proposes to engage in such activity.
Such application shall be filed in such
manner and such form as may be directed
by the Military Security Board or, in the
absence of such directive, by the minister
president. The minister president shall
forthwith cause each application to be
examined for compliance with such re-
quirements as to form. If such examina-
tion cstablishes that an application is
not in compliance with requirements as
to form, he shall return such application
to the applicant with appropriate in-
structions. Otherwise he shall forward
five copies of the application to the
Military Security Board.

2. Subject to any contrary order of the
Allied High Commission, any person who
Proposes to import or export any of the
materials, equipment or prohibited articles
referred to in Paragraph 2 of Article 1 or
Paragraph 1 of Article 2 of this Law, shall
file with the federal government, or such
agency as the federal government may
Gesignate, an application for authorization
t erefore, If the federal government or
he designated agency would be prepared
a issue the requested authorization except
a this law, it shall suspend action on
K and shall forward to the Occupation

uthorities a statement as to the terms
ene subject matter of the requested autho-
pee: The federal government or its
signated agency shall thereafter act in

ve matter in accordance with the in-
oe of the Occupation Authorities.
. The

Military Security Board shall

Consider applications submitted pursuant

APRIL 1950

to paragraph 1 of this Article and state-
ments forwarded pursuant to paragraph 2
and shall issue to the applicant, or direct
to be issued to him, authorizations to
engage in the activities requested in his
application except in so far as in the judg-
ment of the Military Security Board such
activities would constitute a danger to
the security of the Allied Forces or would
facilitate the rearmament or remilitari-
zation of Germany.

Part V
General Provisions

Article 7
For the purpose of this law:
a, The term ‘'person" shall include any

natural person, juristic person, govern-
ment or governmental agency.
b. The term ‘export’ shall mean the

movement of property from within the
territory of the Federal Republic to a
point outside such territory and outside
the western sectors of Berlin.

c. The term “‘import’’ shall mean the
movement of property from outside the
territory of the Federal Republic and
outside the western sectors of Berlin to
a point within the territory of the Federal
Republic.

d. The term “research establishment”
has the same meaning as in the Scientific
Research Laws.

e. The term “educational establishment”
shall include any university, establishment
of university status or other institution
for advanced instruction and recognized
or authorized as such by competent Ger-
man authority.

f. The term ‘medical establishment’
shall include any hospital or other in-
stitution engaged in the medical or sur-
gical care or treatment of persons or
avimals and recognized or authorized as
such by competent German authority.

g. The term “minister president’ shall
include the president of the Senate of
Bremen and the mayor of Hamburg.

Article 8

1. The Occupation Authorities may order
or conduct investigations and require in-
formation, documents and reports neces-
sary to the enforcement of this law.

2. Information obtained pursuant to this
law shall be used only for the purpose
of enforcing this law and shall not be
divulged to unauthorized persons.

Article 9

The violation of any provision of this
law or of any regulation or written order
issued pursuant thereto shall be punish-
able by imprisonment for a term of any
duration, including imprisonment for
life, by a fine of not more than DM
1,000,000 or by both. In addition, the
court may order the dissolution and
liquidation of any juristic person con-
victed of a violation.

Article 10

The Allied High Commission may issue
regulations implementing this law. Such
regulations may alter the lists of pro-
hibited articles.

Article 11
This law shall become effective on
March 15, 1950.

69

Official Statements

Economic Situation Statement

The Allied High Commission
Feb, 21 the following statement:

Various statements have been made
concerning the memorandum recently fur-
nished to the Germian federal government
regarding its present economic program.
So as to remove any doubts as to the
status of this memorandum, it can be
stated that the memorandum was prepared
by the economic advisers to the three
Allied High Commissioners, It was offi-
cially forwarded to certain ministers of
the German federal government, to the
chancellor and to the president of the
Bank Deutscher Laender in advance of
the meeting between them and the High
Commission on Feb. 16. It was intended
to be, and was used, as the basis for dis-
cussion of the German economic situation
at the aforementioned meeting. As agreed
at this initial meeting, there will be
further discussion of the subjects covered
by this memorandum.

From the Allied standpoint, it was not
intended, at least during the period of
discussion, that this memorandum be pub-
lished. It is now quite -clear- that its
appearance in the press derived from
German rather than Allied sources,

issued

Decision on Bavarian Laws

The Allied High Commission has agreed
not to disapprove two Bavarian laws on
compulsory associations* of medical men
but noted doubts as to their constitution-
ality and remarked that the laws might
properly be examined by the constitutional
court of Bavaria.

The laws are:

1. Law concerning election of the
members in the first agencies of the
associations of panel physicians, panel

dental surgeons and panel
Bavaria.

2. Law concerning an association of
panel physicians, an association of panel
dental surgeons, and an association of
panel dentists of Bavaria.

The first-named law regulates the
election of officers into associations of
panel physicians, panel dental surgeons
and panel dentists of Bavaria.

The second-named law provides that
all physicians, dental surgeons and den-
tists licensed to practice in Bavaria
organize in an association of each of
these professions, for the medical care
of legally health-insured persons and
their dependents. The law distinguishes
between ordinary members, admitted to
panel practice in connection with sick funds
(Krankenkassen) and extraordinary mem-
bers, not admitted to panel practice and
not entitled to vote.

The US State Commissioner of Bavaria
with concurrence of the British and French
state observers advised the Allied High
Commission in submitting the laws for
review that the requirement of compul-
sory membership in an organization and
the prohibition of certain types of mem-
bers from voting restrict freedom of

* see ‘Medical Associations" in Informa-
tion Bulletin, March 1950, issue.

dentists of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
association as guaranteed by the Bavarian
constitution and the federal Basic Law.

The Allied High Commission after con-
sidering the laws advised the State Com-
missioner that ‘‘the Bavarian Land (state)
authorities should be informed that, while
the Council had not disapproved these
laws, it entertained doubts as to their
constitutionality and considered that they
might be properly examined by the con-
stitutional court.”

Disapproval of Baden Budget

A Baden state budget law for the fiscal
year 1949 has been disapproved by the
Allied High Commission because of the
means it contemplates for meeting a de-
ficit and because its statements of re-
ceipts and expenditures are considered
not ‘accurate and realistic.'' In a some-
what similar action Jan. 19, the High
Commission announced its disapproval
of a budget law for the state of Schles-
wig-Holstein.

The French State Commissioner of
Baden has been advised that while the
ordinary budget indicates a surplus of
approximately DM 97,000,000, this is offset
by an expenditure provided for in the
extraordinary budget of approximately
DM 212,000,000. After applying against
this latter sum the above-mentioned sur-
plus of DM 97,000,000 there remains a
net deficit of approximately DM 115,000,000
which the state intends to provide through
short-term loans. In so far as this bor-
rowing is not for productive purposes
it contravenes Allied High Commission
Law 15.

The High Commission noted further that
the figures of receipts and expenditures
“are substantially out of line with the
actual experience of the state for the first
nine months of its budgetary year," and
therefore ‘‘do not constitute an accurate
and realistic budget.”

In deciding to disapprove the budget
law, the High Commission also considered
the fact that the state is at present sub-
stantially in default in its payment of
occupation costs.

Coal, Iron and Steel Industries

An exchange of correspondence has
recently taken place between the Allied
High Commission and the German federal
government concerning the fulfilment of
the deconcentration of the coal, iron and
steel industries.

The federal chancellor, in a letter dated
Jan. 22, informed the Allied High Commis-
sion of his government's interest in bring-
ing about the deconcentration of these
industries so as to create sound com-
petitive enterprises and inquired whether
it would be appropriate to initiate German
legislation to this end.

Replying on behalf of the Allied High
Commission on Feb, 23, Mr. John J. Mc-
Cloy, US chairman of the High Commis-
sion, informed the federal chancellor that
work is now nearing completion on the
revision of US/UK Military Government
Laws 75 which deal with the reorgani-
zation of these industries. The revised law
will provide the general framework and
procedures for such reorganization.

In the circumstances, the High Com-
mission did not consider that legislation
need be undertaken in this field by the
federal government at this time.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Since the final structure of these in-
dustries will be determined largely by the
action taken in carrying out the revised
law, the High Commission noted with
satisfaction the expression of the federal
government's interest. It hoped to abtain
the views of German interests and organi-
zations in carrying out the law and to
receive the proposals and suggestions of
the federal government on the subject.

Assets Abroad of Former Reich

The Allied High Commission informed
the federal chancellor Feb. 17 that the
position of external assets of the former
Reich is ‘‘determined by international
agreements and by legislation in Germany
and elsewhere, with which the High Com-
mission has no intention of interfering.”

The statement was contained in a letter
signed by Mr, John J. McCloy as chair-
man high commissioner and was in reply
to a letter sent to the High Commission
Oct. 26, In his letter, the chancellor reit-
erated a statement he had made before
the German federal assembly that ‘the
Federal Republic of Germany, created by
virtue of the sovereignty of the German
people, is the sole legitimate organism of
the German people as a state.’ The
chancellor added that it is therefore the
sole organ in which the rights of the
former German Reich are vested.

“The federal government desires to go
on record already at this time that it
claims the rights to any assets of the
former German Reich abroad, if and when
such assets are released," the chancellor's
letter continued. ‘‘Would you, sir, please
communicate these legal aspects to the
Allied governments and to the govern-
ments of all the nations with whom the
Allied Powers maintain relations."

In its reply the High Commission added
that ‘in considering the broader questions
of the Federal Republic’s claim to suc-
cessorship to the rights and obligations of
the Reich, the High Commission is bound
to take account of the existing juridical
and practical problems. While it is not yet
in a position to make a definite pronounce-
ment on this subject, nor to communicate
with other governments, the Allied High
Commission is authorized by the US,
French and UK governments to state that
it would not be prepared to entertain
claims advanced by other German author-
ities."

The High Commission also informed the
chancellor that it would be of assistance
to the Commission to know whether the
federal government considers itself also
the successor to the obligations of the
former German Reich.

Official Announcements

Disposition of Savings Bonds

The Department of State has advised
that employees who have allotments of
pay in effect for the purchase of US
Savings Bonds, cannot, in accordance with
Treasury regulations, have such bonds
mailed outside of the continental limits
of the United States. However, they may
be held in Treasury safekeeping or mailed
to any designated address within the
United States,

70

All employees who have requested
bonds to be mailed to them at their post
of assignment should advise the Depart-

ment immediately if the bonds are to be |

held in the Treasury for safekeeping or
mailed to an address in the United States.
-~ from HICOG Daily Bulletin, March 3.

Visits to Washington

The Bureau of German Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, Washington, D.C., has
requested that all HICOG officers arriving
in the US report in to the Bureau of Ger-
man Affairs after calling at the Office of
Foreign Service Personnel. This has been
requested on the basis that it will be very
helpful for the Bureau in keeping up with
contemporary problems to consult with the
various HICOG personnel who may be
in Washington. — from HICOG Daily Bul-
Jetin, March 3.

Personal Imports

HICOG personnel encountering diffi-
culties in obtaining from the German
Customs the delivery of shipments arriv-
ing by channels other than APO should
contact Trade Control Branch, Trade and
Payments Division, HICOG, Hq Bldg.
(Frankfurt), Room 023, — from HICOG
Daily Bulletin, March 3.

Retroactive Pay Adjustments

The following Foreign Service personnel
may be eligible for pay adjustments under
Public Law 160:

a. Personnel of the Foreign Service who,
by reason of the retroactive $330 salary
increase, were placed in a higher salary
bracket for allowance purposes may be
eligible for an allowance adjustment dur-
ing the period subsequent to July 11,
1948, and

b. Personnel assigned to differential
posts during the period subsequent to
Sept. 18, 1948, who were eligible for the
basic salary increase. — from HICOG
Daily Bulletin, March 7.

Travel Clearance Circular

Clearances and documentation needed
by EUCOM personnel for leave or duty
travel within and outside the US areas
of control in Germany and Austria are
listed in EUCOM Circular 60 issued
recently by EUCOM Headquarters.

The circular incorporates in one publi-
cation information on visas, permits,
clearances and other papers necessary for
members of the US Armed Forces and per-
sonnel accredited to the military force
when they travel to the following coun-
tries: Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Egypt, Finland, France, Greece, Iran, Iraq,
Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Trieste, Turkey and the United
Kingdom. Requests for travel to countries
not mentioned in the circular should be
forwarded to EUCOM Headquarters for
final action.

Eleven cities in the US occupied zone
of Germany are designated as restricted
areas: Bamberg, Berlin, Bremen, Bremer-

APRIL 1950

--- Page 74 ---
haven, Frankfurt, Grafenwohr, Heidelberg,
Munich, Nuremberg, Stuttgart and Wuerz-
burg. If travelers require billeting in these
cities, specific individual clearance, either
written or telephonic, must be obtained
from the post commanders, Clearance must
be obtained from the commanding general,
US Forces in Austria, for travel to the
restricted cities of Linz, Wels, Salzburg
and Vienna. Prior clearance is necessary
for travel to Berlin and the restricted
cities in the US Zone of Austria, even
though accommodations are not required.

No prior clearance is required for US,
Allied or neutral occupation personnel
traveling to the British Occupied Zone
of Germany, but they must have entry
permits valid for the zone.

Individuals going on duty orders should
have sufficient British Armed Forces
vouchers to cover the costs of services
rendered by the British Army. These may
be obtained at US or British areas finance
offices. US personnel on leave must live
on the German economy, and should take
along sufficient Deutsche marks to cover
expenses. There are no facilities in the
British Zone for converting Military Pay-
ment Certificates into other currencies.

No prior clearance is necessary for occu-
pation personnel traveling to the French
Zone of Germany. Duty orders must be
accompanied by a French translation.
Military personnel on leave may transit
or visit the French Zone on the basis of
leave orders, or a pass and a French
translation. Civilians need an entry permit
valid for the zone, Deutsche marks and
French zone francs are required for routine
expenses. The marks should be purchased
before entering the French Zone.

The Inter-Zonal Facilities Bureau, Allied
Control Authority, APO 742, must give
prior clearance for travel to the USSR Oc-
cupied Zone of Germany, and all orders
must be accompanied by a Russian trans-
lation.

All visits to the US Zone of Austria and
the US Sector of Vienna require prior
clearance from the commanding general,
US Forces in Austria.

Military personnel visiting Austria will
do so on orders or an approved pass. If
they are going to or through the Russian
Zone they must have an occupational
force travel permit (grey pass).

Civilian occupation personnel going to
Austria must have a letter of authority to
visit Austria (indicating the zone and/or
Vienna), Allied Force permit and a valid
US identification document with a photo-
graph of the bearer.

Authorization to ride the US military
train, Mozart, may be issued to US Army,
Air Force and Navy personnel; US citizens
employed by or engaged in activities of
USAREUR and USAFE; quasimilitary or-
ganizations; State Department or other
government agencies, offices and depart-
ments; international and US welfare and
Telief agencies; American commercial
yee giving service exclusively to US

ces; US citizen dependents of these
Bee and non-US citizen dependents
of such personnel when they are accom-
Panied by the individual upon whom they
us cacbandent and when they possess a
graph arr document containing a photo-
e bearer. Female military per-

Sonnel must wear a unif ile ridi
niform while ridin:
the Mozart. °

Letters o
Allied
force tr.

f authority to visit Austria,
force permits and occupational
avel permits (grey card) can be

APRIL 1950

obtained at major command headquarters,
or at headquarters of commands directly
subordinate to USAREUR, USAFE and
USNAFORGER.

Prior clearance for all travel to the
British Occupied Zone of Austria must
be obtained from the Exit and Entry
Branch, Allied Control Authority.

Military personnel in uniform may enter
the British Zone of Austria on the basis
of orders or a pass with proper identifi-
cation and an occupational force travel
permit countersigned by a British liaison
officer,

US civilian employees and their de-
pendents, and dependents of military per-
sonnel, need a letter of authority and an
occupational force permit countersigned
by a British liaison officer. US personnel
wishing to go to or from Vienna through
Semmering to the British Zone must secure
in Vienna an occupational force travel
permit countersigned by the British and
Russian liaison officers. Military personnel
may obtain the permit on proper orders.

All other US personnel must have a
passport and a letter of authority from
their headquarters. A minimum of two
working days is required to secure the
document with the proper clearances, and
this cannot be accomplished on Saturdays,
Sundays or holidays. Occupational force
travel permits will be issued by the USFA
adjutant general while the British and
Russian countersignatures will be obtained
by USFA secretary, General Staff, clear-
ance.

US military per3onnel in uniform may
enter the French Zone of Austria on the
basis of orders or a pass with the French
translation, and proper identification. No
prior clearance is necessary. US civilian
employees and their dependents, and
dependents of military personnel, may
travel to the French Zone of Austria on
the basis of a passport, entry permit and
Allied Force permit.

Civilian employees of the occupation
forces who are French, British or USSR
nationals must have a passport, entry
permit and Allied force permit. Employees
who are nationals of countries other than
the four occupying powers must have a
passport, entry permit and Austrian visa.
The latter may be obtained from the
Austrian representative in Hoechst (near
Frankfurt) or Munich.

Prior clearance is not required for
civilian personnel entering the French
Zone of Austria for less than 48 hours.
However, if the individual will remain
more than 48 hours, prior clearance must
be obtained from the French occupation
authorities at Innsbruck.

Occupation personnel are authorized to
cross the international boundaries of Ger-
many only through crossing points desig-
nated in EUCOM Circular 68, 1949.

Male military personnel will travel to
countries outside Germany and Austria in
uniform except in countries which require
that travel be performed in civilian
clothing. Female military personnel on
duty will travel in uniform except in
countries where civilian clothes are man-
datory. While on leave, WACs, WAFs,
WAVEs or Army nurses may travel in
uniform or in civilian clothes, except on
the military Mozart train.

Occupation personnel holding American
passports do not need visas to visit Bel-
gium, Denmark, France, Italy, Luxembourg,
the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzer-
land or the United Kingdom,

ral

Prior clearance from EUCOM Head-
quarters in Heidelberg is necessary for
leave travel to Egypt, Finland, Greece,
Iran, Israel, Lebanon, Poland, Portugal,
Saudi Arabia, Spain and Turkey. Re-
quests should be submitted at least two
weeks before the proposed trip.

Ordinary leave travel to the Free Terri-
tory of Trieste is not authorized. Requests
for leave for compassionate reasons will
be sent to EUCOM Headquarters for
decision.

Private vehicles are allowed entry into
Switzerland on the basis of ‘'C’’ license
plates, the EUCOM registration certificate
and payment of a nominal fee at the
border,

An Acquit de Transit is required when
occupation personnel drive private vehi-
cles to Belgium, Luxembourg or the Nether-
lands. The Acquit de Transit, which is
valid for two months, is issued free by
border officials in the three countries, It
must be carried in the car during the time
the vehicle is in any of the Benelux
countries, and surrendered at the border
when leaving.

Norway, Sweden and Denmark require
occupation personnel traveling in private
vehicles to have a Carnet de Passage or
Triptyque, which may be obtained from
any American Express Co. office. Den-
mark requires, in addition, a Series "A"
insurance card, which may be obtained
from commercial firms that have made an
agreement with the government of the
country concerned. If an individual does
not possess a Series ‘‘A" card, a Series
“B" catd may be purchased from Danish
customs authorities at the border—EUCOM
announcement, Feb. 23.

Official Gazette in Berlin

To simplify existing procedure the Allied
Kommandatura in Berlin will in future
issue Allied Kommandatura Laws, Ordi-
nances and Regulations for all legislative
measures to be published in a newly
created Official Gazette.

An Allied Kommandatura letter sent to
Mayor Ernst Reuter states that the sole
official publication of all Allied Komman-
datura laws, ordinances and regulations
will be in the Official Gazette of the
Allied Kommandatura and that advance
copies of all laws, ordinances and regu-
lations will be forwarded to the mayor.

Use of Army-Air Force Postal Service

An increasing number of reports are
being received concerning personnel
authorized the use of the Army-Air Force
postal service acting as intermediaries for
persons not entitled to use this service.
The attention of all commanders is directed
to paragraph 16, Circular No. 18, Hq
EUCOM, June 16, 1949, which prohibits
personnel authorized this service from
acting as intermediaries for unauthorized
persons. Action will be taken to bring
this subject to the attention of all per-
ao EUCOM Weekly Directive

oO. 5.

Restitution Deadline Extended

Through BK/O (50) 26, dated March 3,
1950, the Allied Kommandatura has extend-
ed to May 15, 1950, the time limit for
declarations and reports on property fall-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

The Development of Management Asso-
ciations in Germany, Visiting Expert Series
No. 12, Manpower Division, OMGUS (Oi-
fice of Labor Affairs, HICOG), October 1949.

Organized Labor and Democracy in Ger-
many, Visiting Expert Series No, 15, Man-
power Division, OMGUS (Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG), October 1949,

Der AuSenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 2, Der Spezialhandel
nach Waren (Statistische Nummern) (The
Foreign Trade of the German Federal Re-
public, Part 2, Special Merchandise Trade—
Statistical Numbers), Bizonal Statistical
Cffice, Wiesbaden, December 1949,

Nineteenth Report for the Public Advi-
sory Board, ECA (Washington), Jan. 18,
1950.

Recovery Guides, No. 12, Participating
Countries, ECA (Washington), January 1950.

Unemployment in Western Germany,

Office of Administration, HICOG, Janu-
ary 1950.

US Resident Officers‘ Conference, De-
cember 12-13, 1949 (Supplement), Field
Division, HICOG, January 1950,

Prison Journal, Vol. 1, No 1, Prisons

Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG,
January 1950.

The German Public Views the Conduct
of the US Occupation Forces, Report No. 6,
Series No. 2, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
Feb. 6, 1950.

The German Public Views the CARE
Organization, Report No. 7, Series No. 2,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb. 6, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 209,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb. 9, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 9, OEA, CCG (BE), Feb. 9, 1950.

Economic Press Digest, No, 85, PRD
HICOG, Feb. 10, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 17, PRD
HICOG, Feb. 16, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 10, OFA, CCG (BE), Feb. 16, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 210,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb. 16, 1950,

Copies of Instructions listed in the

Information Bulletin may be ob-

tained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

The Theory of Communism, TI&E Bulle-
tin, Vol. 5, No. 8, TI&E Office, EUCOM,
Feb. 19, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 18, PRD
HICOG, Feb. 23, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 11, OEA, CCG (BE), Feb. 23, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 211,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 23, 1950.

Official Gazette, No. 11, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Feb. 25, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 19, PRD
HICOG, March 1, 1950,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 212,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 2, 1950.

You and Your America — The South,
TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 10, TI&E Office,
EUCOM, March 5, 1950.

Addresses by the Hon. John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner for Germany, PRD
HICOG, March 6, 1950. Separate Brochures
in English and German.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 20, PRD
HICOG, March 7, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
Nos. 38 to 59, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
Feb, 15 to March 15, 1950,

Information Bulletin, March, PRD HICOG,
March 10, 1950.

ing under the provisions of the Komman-
datura order on the restitution of indenti-
fiable property to victims of Nazi oppres-
sion. The previous time limit had been
Feb. 16, 1950.

All persons having had in their posses-
sion at any time since Jan. 30, 1933, prop-
erty falling under the restitution regu-
lations or having knowledge of such prop-
erty or transfer of property, are remind-
ed that their failure to submit before
May 15, 1950, to the Treuhaender der
Amerikanischen, Britischen and Franzoe-
sischen Militaerregierungen fuer zwangs-
uebertragene Vermoegen, 53/55 Nuernber-
ger Strasse, Berlin W 30, form “‘A‘ or
“B,"" respectively, will render them sub-
ject to prosecution before an Allied Stigh
Commission court. — from Berlin Element
HICOG announcement, March 8.

Payment of Fares in Berlin

The Allied Kommandatura has ordered
that members of the Occupation Forces,
when wearing uniform, may travel free
within Berlin on German buses (Omni-
buses), streetcars (Strassenbahn), subways
(U-Bahn), elevated railroads (S-Bahn), and
passenger steamers which operate regu-
larly.

As applicable to US personnel, only US
military personnel, when in uniform, can
ride free of charge on German city trans-
portation and this does not include their
dependents, civilian guests, escorts or US
civilians of any category.

The above orders became effective
March 1, 1950. — from BMP Daily Bulletin,
March 8.

Luxury Foods Discontinued

Luxury-type food items that duplicate
canned goods carried in Post Exchange
stores will be discontinued for sale in
EUCOM commissaries.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

In compliance with Department of the
Army policies that Quartermaster com-
missaries should not stock ‘‘luxury’’ goods,
anchovies, antipaste, fish paste, canned
lobster and similar specialities will be
eliminated from commissaries as soon as
present supplies are exhausted.

Since these items normally are car-
ried by the EUCOM Exchange Service,
duplication of such supplies is not con-
sidered desirable.-—from EUCOM announ-
cement, Feb. 21.

Visits to US Cemeteries

Visitors may enter any of the 10 per-
manent American World War II cemeteries
in France, Belgium, the Netherlands,
Luxembourg and England, although con-
struction work is in progress in most of
these locations. The superintendent of
the cemetery concerned should be con-
tacted for assistance and advice.

Persons planning to visit a World
War II cemetery may also contact the
American Battle Monuments Commission
or the American Graves Registration Com-
mand, either in person or by mail, prior
to visiting a cemetery. However, they
are not required to do so. These agen-
cies will render every possible assistance
to visitors or relatives of war dead.

Nine of the cemeteries have been trans-
ferred to the custody of the American
Battle Monuments Commission with offices
at 20 Rue Quentin Bauchart, Paris (8e).

The cemetery at Neuville, near Liege,
Belgium, remains under the oare of the
American Graves Registration Command,
European Area, which can be contacted
through APO 757, US Army.

Individuals who desire to visit a spe-
cific grave, but who do not know in
which cemetery the deceased is buried,
may write to the Headquarters, American
Graves Registration Command, European
Area, for the information. Such inquiries

72

should include the full name, rank, former
unit, hometown, and serial number of the
deceased, if available-—from EUCOM an-
nouncement, Feb. 17.

Germany to Seek Tariff Concessions

Western Germany will seek tariff con-
cessions with at least 14 countries in Sep-
tember 1950, according to the Foreign
Trade and Exchange Committee of the Al-
lied High Commission. The tariff negotia-
tions will take place at the fourth session
of the contracting parties to the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, scheduled
to begin Sept. 28.

Germany plans to negotiate with the

United States, Italy, Greece, Turkey,
Sweden, Finland, New Zealand, United
Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Union of

South Africa, India, Pakistan and France.
However, any other countries wishing to
negotiate with Germany may offer pro-
posals.

The General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade was negotiated in 1947 by 23 coun-
tries, including the United States. The
agreement, intended to reduce tariffs and
trading restrictions throughout the world,
contains reciprocal tariff and trade con-
cessions applicable to one-half the entire
prewar volume of international trade.

Concessions already granted under the
agreement consist of substantial reductions
in duties on some products, and the bind-
ing of other rates in addition to free entry
on certain products. The agreement also
contains a number of general commercial
provisions designed to simplify customs
requirements.

Germany, Hongkong Linked by Phone

Telephone service between western Ger-
many and the British crown colony of
Hongkong opened March 1.

APRIL 1950

--- Page 76 ---
SS American Flyer loads its

Marshall Plan cargo of elec-
trical equipment, bound for
France and West Germany. Ship
carried three giant transformers
for France's Centrale d'Harnes,
slated to be one of Europe's
finest power plants.

20,000 employees of Manches-

ter electrical plant turn out
recovery goods, half of which
are marked for export. A bank
of transformers will go to Hol-
land, to be used for importing
electricity from Germany's Ruhr.

3 The famed Arc de Triomphe

again shines under the spot-
light, as Marshall aid helps build
and equip power plants to pro-
duce electricity for all France.
Lights are on again in Europe's
small towns as well as her large
cities,

4 Austria's largest hydroelec-

tric power station is being
constructed in Kaprun, with Aus-
trian workers, materials from
Austrian factories, financial back-
ing from ERP. Kaprun'’s power
will feed vital Austrian indus-
trial plants.

--- Page 77 ---
APRIL

Q a a SS oe

CoN. Ok tn

Oa
S810

OO UNL. oO

14. 21
15; 22

13; 20

23 30
24
25
26
27.
28
2?