--- Page 2 ---
AUSLESE.

WOR GER SEMSIN EVE GELER isos

AER DEM tN HARE OE
= Talib

or Paste
soreness

Pea detea patie

PR PEENNIC > A TABKGANC> CRI i409 4

SH LAS D
ctor
PVRS 93

Webs Lunia Vie
| Welapeastouse
ee

THIS ISSUE:
Message to HICOG Personnel The German Economy
Textiles and Clothing Political Aims at Bonn
Postwar Publishing Specs! Services

--- Page 3 ---
Airlift Ends!

A few minutes after these photos
were snapped at Rhine-Main Air Base
by USAF cameramen, the last airlift
C-54 took off, landed in Berlin less
than two hours later—and Operation
Vittles came to an end. The date,
Saturday, October 1, 1949. At right,
Brig. Gen. Edward E, Alexander feli-
cilates the crew: (I. to r.) Capt. Harry
D. Immel, 1st Lt. Charles N. Reece,
Ist Lt, James C. Powell, S/Sgt. Jerry
G. Cooksy and T/Sgt. Matthew M
Terengi,

ad LASTSVITTLES ELigiyy

17835727 Tors
TO BERLIN

LAST@ViT -
17835727 TONS AIBL
TO BERLIN y

oe

AVLIFTER __

--- Page 4 ---
COVER DESIGN

OUR GERMAN PUBLICATIONS—Five
distinctive periodicals are published
by the Information Services Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, in
the German language to give the Ger-
mans an accurate interpretation of the
US occupation policies and an ob-
jective view of world affairs, An
article describing these periodicals
and explaining their purposes begins
on page 9.

INFORMATION

ULLETIN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

@
November 1949
The Information Bulletin jis the Personne] Announcement 2
monthly magazine of the Office of the Message to HICOG Personnel 3
US High Commissioner for Germany Address by John J. McCloy
for dissemination of authoritative in- The Afiee be ob Coat Were U
ares pachuheder a he peHcies, Our German Publications 9
regulations, instructions, operations Article by Aileen S. Miles
and activities of the Allied occupa- Postwar Publishing : rr
tion in Germany, Article by Laurence P. Dalcher
Editorial Offices Cost of War . 14
Headquarters Building, Room 031-B Illustrated Story trom HEUTE.
Frankfurt, Germany Industrial eaten July 16
Editor H. Warner Waid Germany’s Liberal Parties . 17
Editorial Writer Marjorie A. Yahraes conaa ote ta 4 olitical Parties ms
Editorial Writer Aileen S. Miles Digest of Declarations at Bonn
Reprint of any article, unless spe- Textile and Clothing Industry sare pal
cifically noted, is permitted with credit 2 a ks Marjorie A. Yahraes ig
to the Information Bulletin and the pecial Services . ‘
author or source cited with the article. Article on EUCOM Entertainment
Personnel Notes 31
German Editorials . 32
Books and Pamphlets 36
bd Official Notices AS
Communiques 45
Laws and Ordinances 45
MONTHLY MAGAZINE Speeches 46
Announcements ‘ 46
With this’ issue, ; the; Information Regulations, Directives, Publications, Dociinedts 48
Bulletin becomes a monthly magazine,
being compiled and published as Special Insert:
a function of the Public Relations Key HICOG Personnel center

Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, The monthly magazine, which
will have a new name, will be larger

in number of pages and contain a
greater variety of features, information
and regular sections, It will be
distributed on the 25th of the
month preceding the date of issue.

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
2TH

PERSONNEL ANNOUNCEMENT

ICOG EMPLOYEES appointed on or after Aug. 19, 1949, are required to serve a

probationary period of two years, David Wilken, chief of the Personnel Division,
Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany, announced. Previous service in
another government agency, such as OMGUS, does not count toward the completion
of the probationary period.

At the same time, Mr. Wilken announced that OMGUS employees with reemploy-
ment rights to former positions in other federal agencies do not automatically retain
such rights upon appointment in HICOG, Arrangements can be made to renew these
rights through the Personnel Division, however.

Concerning the probationary period for HICOG employees, Mr. Wilken said that
it had originally been announced in July as one year. He explained, however, that
in August the State Department amended its Foreign Service regulations on this
point and that word of this change was only recently received here.
| "The probationary period is an extension of the selection process,” Mr. Wilken
said. “It gives suvervisors an opportunity to determine whether employees measure
up to desired standards of performance and conduct, and to separate personnel not
meeting these standards with a minimum of formality.”

Although the State Department's regulations do not prescribe a probationary period
for Foreign Service Reserve Officers, it has been determined that officers in this
category with HICOG will be subject to the same two-year probationary period as
Foreign Service Staff officers and employees,

Reemployment rights to their former positions had been granted to a number of
federal employees on their transfer to OMGUS, Mr. Wilken said. These employees
must normally apply to their former agencies for reinstatement in their old jobs
within 90 days of termination of OMGUS employment.

However, similar reemployment rights are provided for Foreign Service employees
by the Foreign Service Act of 1946 and Executive Order 9932, provided the consent
of the former employing agency is obtained. The HICOG Personne] Division will,
upon request, assist employees in negotiating with other government agencies for
the preservation of their reemployment rights. Requests for this assistance should
be directed to the Chief, Personnel Division, HICOG, APO 757, and should include
detailed identification of the position and agency to which reemployment rights apply.

Mr. Wilken further stated that employees who are unsuccessful in obtaining an
extension of their reemployment rights may be released, if they so desire, to return
to the United States at government expense, if otherwise eligible for such trans-
portation, to be reinstated in their former positions.

ail

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 6 ---
Message to HICOG Personnel

By JOHN J. McCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

IHE PRESIDENT of the United States made a statement

last week to Secretary Johnson which was com-
municated to General Handy for transmission to those
who had served in Military Government on behalf of the
United States, It was to mark the occasion of the creation
of the High Commission for Germany and the close of
Military Government. It was a rather extraordinary state-
ment and I want to quote from it at the outset of what
I have to say:

“Last Wednesday, when the
new German Federal Republic
was formed, the Department
of the Army completed its
task of Military Government
in Germany.

“I wish that you would
convey to the Secretary of
the Army and through him to
all the personnel—military and
civilian—who have participa-
ted in this historic work
during these past four and a
half years the thanks of the
President of the United States,
personally, and of the Nation,
for the achievements of Mili-
tary Government in restoring
and preserving peace in Ger-
many and in resisting fearlessly
and successfully the blockade
of Berlin, In so doing, the
Army was brilliantly supported
by its sister services, especially
in the airlift.

“Confronted at first with
destruction, famine and chaos,
our Military Government in Germany restored order and
made a beginning of local democratic government in the
United States Zone. Later, through economic fusion with
the British Zone, it laid the foundation upon which, with the
still later addition of the French Zone, it became possible
to establish the German Federal Republic and to integrate
Western Germany into the European Recovery Program.

“These accomplishments were made possible in large
measure by the United States Army, which, after playing
such a significant role in the defeat of Germany, turned
to what was perhaps the greatest single mass relief task
in history, Thereby it saved millions of Germans from
starvation and gave the German people the strength and
the will to win for themselves a place in the family of
free democratic nations.

NOVEMBER 1949

High Commissioner McCloy delivering his message to
HICOG personnel at the Casino in Frankfurt Oct. 4.
(Jacoby PRD HICOG photo)

“Upon the return of General Clay last spring, the people
of our country spontaneously poured forth their ex-
pression of gratitude for what had been achieved under
his direction. At this time when Military Government's
work is done, I wish to have all those who assisted in
this great effort receive recognition by their country for
the contribution which they made to the peace of the world.”

I want also to add, particularly, some comments from
the message of Secretary of the
Army Gordon Gray in his
letter of transmittal:

“While we take justifiable
satisfaction in the success
which has been achieved by
Military Government, I ask
that you convey to your com-
mand my strong conviction
that the Army's work in Ger-
many is not yet done. The
troops by their mere presence
are preserving peace and
making democratic govern-
ment in Germany possible.
The personnel who formerly
served in Military Govern-
ment and who will continue
under the High Commissioner
still have most important work
to do. Further, the Depart-
ment of the Army has promised
to the High Commissioner full
logistical support and unreser-
ved cooperation in the task to
come. I know that the Army
will fulfill these promises
completely,

In what Secretary Gray has said about the work yet
to be done by the Army there is a lesson for us in Military
Government, for our work is certainly far from done,

We had hoped, as I believe you know, to have these
messages delivered by the Secretary of the Army himself,
but this proved to be impracticable,

N THE GROUP before me I feel as if I were addressing

three audiences, all closely related to each other yet
somewhat different in their character.

One I think of as being composed of the many men
and women who have served in Military Government and
who have now returned to their homes and their civilian
occupations; the second, those who are planning to return,
having labored here, some for a very long period, but
who now have come to the end of their service either

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
because of their own wish or because of the necessary
reductions we have had to put into effect; the third is
the audience which is to stay, some of whom are new,
though only a relative few; the many in this audience
are those who have also served in Military Government
but are staying on for still further service under the
Commission Administration of Germany.

My first remarks I should like to address to all these
audiences, not only to those present but to all those who
have ever served in Military Government. I do this be-
cauSe I would like to recount a little history and you
will pardon me if I make some personal references in
connection with it.

N THE FIRST World War, I was also in Germany and,

as in this one, I was here both during the war and
after and, as in this one, I was involved in Military
Government or what passed for Military Government in
those days. Our stations as occupying forces were then
along the Moselle and the Rhine, We only had to deal
with bridgeheads. We had no Nazis to dislodge, no in-
dustries to decartelize, very few plants to dismantle, and
no mark to devalue, but we did. have our problems.

A far-seeing man named Colonel Hunt wrote a report
growing out of his experiences of this occupation and he
pointed out the necessity for a better organization if ever
we were to find ourselves in Europe again as the result
of the victories of our armies. Many years later it became
apparent that we were again facing just that situation.
We were already landing in Africa and the need was
upon us. Whereas in 1918 we had always operated with
a going civil organization beneath and behind us, we
were now faced with the task of setting up our own
administration in toto. .

It was then that Colonel Hunt's monograph was produced
and the Pentagon building went to work on the creation
of a group who could be expected to deal with the ex-
tremely complex and difficult problems of occupation. It
was an accident but a fact that the organization of this
force was supervised from the then Assistant Secretary
of War's office and I saw it at its birth.

E TOOK John Hilldring from his division, put him in
charge, got Neil Wickersham to organize the school
at Charlottesville, scurried about for engineers, educators,
city administrators, governors, linguists, health men, food
men, scientists, artists, policemen, firemen, and what are
now known as just bodies, and then began the really
serious business of getting ready for operations. Unfortu-
nately, we could not time everything just right. The war
would not go according to any schedule we could devise.
These people learned all about Kreise, Gemeinden and
Regierungsbezirke,2 and then had no place to go while
preparations for D-Day went on. The ordeal of Shriven-
ham® was endured and if any of you ever has cause to
feel frustrated and unappreciated again, just remember
that word. But it was not too long before this group began
in Germany what had already been well advanced on the
Italian peninsula.

1 Military Government School at the University of Virginia.
2 Counties, Communities and Governmental Districts.
8 Location of Military Government School in England.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The President has described some of the services per-
formed but they were of such infinite variety it is hard to
particularize them. It was my good fortune to see these
services being performed in the wake of the armies on
many different occasions—in Italy, in Austria, in Germany,
as well as in Japan. Through these people and the contri-
butions that were made under their supervision order was
restored, people were fed, monuments were preserved,
disease was checked, and infinitely more bountiful things
done.

NDEED, THIS work could well be called the first

Marshall Plan of Europe for its contributions and its
expenditures were on that scale. The main contributions
were in food and civilian supplies of a simple nature and
it is significant that it was mainly to former enemy coun-
tries that the heaviest expenditures were made under the
old “disease and unrest” formula.

It would be a great service if these contributions could
be preserved in an account worthy of the devotion of the
people engaged in the work and the character of the aid
tendered. It was indeed an extraordinary accumulation of
skills and experience and they became a great force before
the hostilities ceased, but the old group was largely dissi-
pated by the time armies were demobilized, for their points
also had accumulated and they also were anxious to get
back to business and professions from which in the main
they had been torn.

In those days General Clay was working in the War
Department, being urged to see to it in addition to his
other duties that the needs of the civilian populations in
the occupied lands were covered, I have mentiond Hill-
dring, Wickersham and Clay—there were also McSherry,
Spofford, Holmes, Marcus, men like Dawson and Pollock
over here. Parkman, Draper, Wilkinson, Dodge, Murphy
--- I could go on for 10 minutes. So much for past
history. It is a good page in history, and the people who
made it were a good and worthy cross-section of the
American people. '

AY I NOW refer particularly to those among you who

have served during the phase of Military Govern-
ment and are only now leaving it to return home. The
natural processes which flow from a change in administra-
tion, the passage of time and the drastic reductions we
have been compelled to put into effect all operate to form
this group. You were subjected to heavy appeals and you
were recruited when the need was great. Now you have
performed your job. Many men of rich experience and
skill are among you and the loss of such talent will be
hard, in some cases impossible to overcome.

I want particularly to recognize the service of the
families, the so-called dependents of this group who have
done their share to forward the interests of Military
Government. Their earnest activities were a powerful
support to the regular work. These last two months have
been trying ones for all concerned. Just as we had to
organize for the transition to commission form of govern-
ment we have had also to make this radical reduction in
our forces and at just this time have also had to effect
new leadership.

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 8 ---
To you who are returning home I remind you that you
are joining a select company. The main body has already
gone and you are now classed with them. I fear some of
our processes of termination have been crude, impersonal
and unworthy of your service. If so, I hope you will make
allowances and carry away with you not the memory of
irritations or indeed any regrets, but rather the memory
of having played a part in an extremely significant period
of history. You can recall that you have had an
experience few have had and it will grow more memor-
able as time goes on. To all those going home I wish you
a safe return and an entirely satisfactory readjustment to
whatever activity may now await you.

INALLY, I WOULD want to say a few words to those
who are to stay on—to those whose job it will be to
consolidate what, they and their predecessors have
accomplished and to go ahead. As Secretary Gray has
suggested, no one should feel the job is done. Indeed, in
many respects it is merely being undertaken in a new
form. In many respects it will be harder. There will be
greater need for example, less for direction.

Germans will more and more look to their own govern-
ment for guidance and quite probably will grow the more
critical of your supervision. It will require more skill to
accomplish our objectives and less force. Because you
are fewer there will be more, rather than less work to
do, The need for tight teamwork will become more acute.
Time presses and the tendency of the German people will
be to harden their attitude and adopt their patterns within
their own rather than our genius.

To those at headquarters the problems are going to be
no less critical or no less abstruse than they have been.
If it is not a new crisis in Berlin, it will be something
just as difficult and just as vital, just as ominous, with
which we shall have to deal. Whereas we have noted real
progress toward European confederation in the last
12 months, we have also noted, if anything, a denser
cloud of secrecy and suppression in the East.

But it is particularly on the Land (state) level that the
work must be intensified and broadened, even though it
becomes less detailed. You will have to face the paradox
of exerting this greater influence with a smaller staff.
To those of you who have worked here and who remain,
I am sure I need not ask you to be worthy of the task
that has already been performed, nor need I remind those
of you who have just arrived that you are picking up
a task that many men before you have faced and whose
labors have made yours possible of fulfillment.

E HAVE a smaller group, to be sure, but we still
wield enormous power and accordingly carry its awe-
inspiring responsibility. I am not referring to the latent
military strength of the United States—vast and uncon-
querable as it is—nor am I referring to those powers

which are reserved to us:under the Occupation Statute, .

extensive as they, under certain circumstances, may be-
come, I refer rather to the continuing and vast moral
power exerted by the country you represent.

For all the criticisms, for all the intermittent oddities
of our operations in fields essentially foreign to us, we

NOVEMBER 1949

know and Germany knows that never before in history,
recorded or unrecorded, has as great an effort been put
forth by any conquering nation toward the reconstruction
of its former foe as that which is represented by the
work done and the contributions made by the United
States in Germany since 1945.

But even more than the example of our money, food
and materials, I refer to the moral power exerted by the
example of a modern democratic state having carried on
the job of not only successfully fighting and leading the
greatest war in history straight across the world but going
a very long way toward supplying the forces of a very
large group of all the other nations engaged in it.

REFER ALSO to the example of immediately there-

after sparking and maintaining a vast program of aid
through a remorseless series of economic crises mainly
induced by the war, and during the course of it all no
election was avoided or postponed and no constitutional
guarantee suspended,

It was the fashion, particularly in Germany, in the period
between the wars to decry and finally to scorn the
doctrine of freedom of the individual and the course of
democratic government as exampled by the United States.
They misconceived one of the great forces of our times.
Minor delinquencies were exaggerated and surface cru-
dities stressed but the ultimate fact remains that today
the emphasis upon the individual and his rights is preserved
by your presence and that of the Armed Forces of the
United States as representatives of your country on this
borderland between freedom and suppression, and all the
world is aware of it.

Therein lies your power and you must continue to be
sensitive to it and make the most of it. I repeat, I ask
you for renewed effort; the time is short and the hands
are few, but the stakes remain extremely high.

I want to take this opportunity also to emphasize our
dependence upon the Armed Forces of the United States
who are now in Germany. I urge upon you the greatest
cooperation with those forces. We are the extension of
their influence, It is essential that we continue in the
closest contact with them. General Handy, General
Huebner and the other leaders of these forces are fully
aware of the important role they play in the accomplish-
ment of our objectives, and we only strengthen our own
effort by cooperation with them.

OW LET ME say just a few words of our objective.

You have all heard General Clay say that the punitive
stage of our occupation is over and, except for some
inevitable vestiges of that stage, this is true but we have
yet to firm up the tendencies which will make Germany
a peaceful, constructive factor in Europe, Many signs point
in that direction today, but so did they after Weimar.

The test of Germany's adherence to democratic thought
may not come this year or next, but come it will, and
it may well be severe, Whether from the right or the
left, the intriguing aspects of another call for the “Fuehrer
princip” (leader principle) may be sounded and totalitar-
ianism could again be at hand.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
The democratic faith will have to have strong roots.
It is our job to strengthen those roots so that we do not
have a series of new aberrations with which to deal. The
solemn hope is that what Germans feel and think and do
will determine that issue in the right manner, and that
no outside force will be necessary to prescribe it.

We can and must check the renewal of Nazism and anti-
Semitism, but we can try to do this by permitting and
encouraging Germans to act rather than to depend
exclusively on our own measures. We can and should do
all in our power to dilute the strong inclination of the
modern German to place his faith in the authority of the
state rather than in his own responsibility as a citizen.
I cannot believe that Germans as a whole will ever again
be so unutterably stupid as to combine complacency and
romantic pride in such measure as again to tolerate
Nazism,

E CAN AND WILL always watch the element of

security. Here we have to be resolute and prompt.
‘We must recall that it was never a lack of knowledge of
what was going on in Germany that stayed our hand in
the period between the wars. It was our own irresolution.
This is a lesson for us to apply now. Firmness and deter-
mination to act whenever necessary are still vital.

However, we must learn and know more of the Ger-
mans, take less for granted and test our concepts so that
we become better able to release the Germans to exercise
their own minds, to think for themselves in terms of the
free individual and the responsible citizen. This requires
greater rather than less contact, a greater knowledge of
German history, and an always deeper insight into the
German character.

As I have said heretofore, I am not one of those who
despair of the progress of the German toward individual
freedom and tolerance. I think it may with great force and
truth be said that rather early in her history Germany
simply took the wrong turn. It is hard to find better
expressions of political thought even in England than have
been uttered by Germans: ‘What concerns all should be
determined by all, for the many are wiser than the few
and it is by such a form of government that the liberty
of the people is protected, for they compel the officials
to recognize that the people is their master." That was
spoken by a German political scientist at the turn of
the 17th Century.

GE WHOSE anniversary was celebrated this
summer, stressed the autonomy of the individual and
he said something which even we of the West, who are
too prone to take our liberties for granted, may take to
heart, namely—that no one deserves freedom and the
right to life unless he wins them anew every day. If the
German individual had thoroughly inculcated the doctrine
of Goethe that respect for self was the culminating
respect, no Dachau or Auschwitz could have appeared—
no matter what those in power might have decreed.

Kant, the master philosopher of the Germans and one
of the mountain peaks in the thinking of the world, gave
true counsel and his imperatives could have rightly guided
a nation as well as an individual.

Instead, the glorification of the state as if it were
something apart from the people or of superman, together
with the intoxicating effect of a series of military
victories over neighboring states made Hegel, Treitschke
and Nietzsche the gods, and today’s dust and ruins
constitute the end of that road. It is not too late to find
the old path and the fact that it is a German path should
make our task the easier.

E MUST ALWAYS realize that we do not perform

this task alone—we have the great good fortune to
have associated with us the power and influence of the
British and the French. We shall be stupid if we do not
draw on their experience as well as our own. The British
capacity for self-government is the most profound yet
devised—they created the Mother of Parliaments and they
inspired our own liberties.

The French revolution deeply implanted the concept of
liberty on the Continent ‘and since the Napoleonic wars
they have demonstrated their attachment to the concept
of the free individual. Moreover, they know the Continent
and on all levels we should seek to derive benefit from
their experience and their knowledge.

In conclusion, let me remind you again that we stand
at a critical point in the world’s geography. It is here
where probably more interests and more hopes converge
for the moment than they do anywhere else in the world.
With the issues we have to face and the influence we
have to bring to bear, our utmost endeavors are the least
we can apply.

“THE ARMY'S TASK in Germany is not yet done. The Department of the Army has
promised our unreserved cooperation to the High Commissioner. There still remain
important problems to solve and tasks to perform. In the solution of these problems and
in the performance of these tasks the military and civilian personnel of the Army pledge

iheir unstinting cooperation. In the every day performance of our duties, by our

attitude and demeanor. as representatives of the United States, we can and will be.a

potent influence in making democracy not only possible to the German people but
desired by them."—from speech by Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner, Commanding General,
US Army Europe, at ceremonies in Frankfurt Oct. 4.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

6

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 10 ---
The German Economy
— — Recovery Dependent on Individual’s Efforts

By SIR CECIL WEIR

Retiring Economic Adviser to Military Governor, CCG (BE)

T THE BEGINNING of a new

epoch in German affairs it is
profitable to take a look at the situ-
ation and its problems for which the
High Commission and the Federal
Government will become responsible
in the (Commission Administration)
Phase which is about to open in
Western Germany.

The economic situation is, on the
whole, an encouraging one, but the
problems are as challenging as ever.
Complacency should be avoided at all
times, and certainly there is no place
for it in an economy which is still
producing at less than 90 percent of
1936 in an area which has a popu-
lation some 20 percent greater than
in 1936, and which has still to de-
pend on external financial assistance
for a substantial proportion of its es-
sential imports.

Western Germany is not alone in
requiring outside aid. Most of the
Marshall Plan countries are still a
good way off viability on the stand-
ards which, happily, we consider to
be necessary for civilized and cul-
tured peoples. But the levels of pro-
duction and consumption in western
Germany, although they compare
favorably with those of eastern Ger-
many, are still substantially below
those of other participating countries
in the Organization for European Eco-
nomic Cooperation.

EVERTHELESS, THE progress of

the economy in the past 15
months has been remarkable and
sustained. This progress is evident
in the appearance of the people, in
the activity of the factories and in
the windows and on the shelves of
the shops. It presents the federal Ger-
man government with opportunities
and possibilities which, if they are
seized and exploited, should enable
them to achieve no less remarkable,
if less sensational, improvements in

NOVEMBER 1949

thrée

Sir Cecil Weir, for the past
years responsible for economic affairs
in the British Zone, first as president
of the economic sub-commission and
later as economic adviser to the
British Military Governor, wrote this
article for the CCG (BE)'s Monthly
Report on relinquishing his post at
the end of September.

the next two years, than those which
have accomplished so great a trans-
formation in living conditions and in
industry in the period since currency
reform.*

The objective is to become inde-
pendent of extraordinary outside eco-
nomic assistance by 1952-53. This will
mean, first and foremost, a develop-
ment of export trade in every profit-
able direction. In particular it will
mean a great increase in exports of
manufactured goods to dollar areas
and to those countries which can
provide the products and commodities
which are essential to the German
economy and which, if not obtained
in trade with non-dollar countries
would have to be odtained from dol-
lar areas or be done without.

* Introduction of Deutsche Mark, June 1946.

7

Let us see how export trade has
progressed in the last three years:

Total Exports

1947 $225,000,000
1948 +8 $599,000,000
1949 (1st quarter) $265,000,000
1949 (2nd quarter) $300,000,000
1949 July $113,000,000
Import Arrivals
TAT Se neceee me $734,000,000
1988 2h ones $1,400,000,000
1949 (1st quarter) 389,000,000
1949 (2nd quarter) 461,000,000
1949 <Suly sc his o% $237,000,000

HAT LOOKS not too bad at first

sight, but it is far from being
adequate. The present monthly rate of
exports must be much more than
doubled if western Germans are to
have a normal standard of living pur-
chased by their own efforts and their
own trade,

It seems to me, therefore, that one
of the first priorities for the federal
German government is to set in train
and to inspire an export drive. Such
a campaign, if it is to succeed, must
enlist the conscious, sustained and
enthusiastic support of industry which
alone can bring to realization the
plans and policies of governments in
these fields. The old slogan of “Export
or Die!" has become for Germany, as
for our own country, “You must
export to live!"

In the several phases we have
passed through in Germany since the
beginning of the occupation, much of
the stimulation of export trade and
most of the respcnsibility for trade
negotiations have been undertaken
and borne by the Occupation Author-
ities. JEIA (Joint Export-Import
Agency) has become a familiar name
to traders in all parts of the world.
It was necessary to restore the fun-
damental bases of external trade in
Germany, and Military Government

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
was bound to treat this as a matter
of first-class importance.

But the development of Germany's
foreign trade, although it will remain
a matter of particular concern to the
High Commission, will have to be
promoted and carried out hence-
forward by Germans. It is, indeed, more
appropriate in a highly competitive
world that the people of a country
which has again got on to its economic
feet should promote their export
trade by their own efforts and their
own inspiration rather than by means
of the leadership and direction of the
nationals of other countries, however
eager and well-disposed these may be.

N MANY WAYS the federal German

government will be confronted
with the problems of foreign trade
at the very outset of its career. It
can be assumed that one of tthe first
actions of the new government will
be to apply for membership in the
Organization for European Economic
Cooperation, and, ‘thereafter, to
execute a bilateral agreement with
the United States Government which
will take the place of the existing
bilateral agreement between the
Military Governors and the US
Government. Already, in anticipation
of this, the bizonal delegation to the
OEEC in Paris has turned over many
of the duties of representation on
committees to German delegates and
has made preparations for a complete
transfer of the delegation to German
hands,

Thus, while the foreign trade
policies of western Germany, like
those of other participating countries,
will continue to be scrutinized at the
OEEC they will have to be justified
and defended by German spokesmen
in the council and its several com-
mittees.

It has been one of the most inter-
esting and educative of the duties of
my Western Allied colleagues and
of myself and my British colleagues
to pilot the OEEC programs of western
Germany through the different eche-
lons of the Paris organization. In the
preparation of these programs there
has been the closest cooperation and
coordination in the relations between
the officials of the German Economic
Administration and the Occupation
Authorities, but the final attitude on

INFORMATION BULLETIN

debatable and controversial points is
naturally conditioned and influenced
to some extent by the necessity or
otherwise of personally arguing and
justifying such points at a forum of
keen and experienced European eco-
nomic intellects!

This the German authorities will
have to do themselves in future. It
is by the manner in which it carries
out responsibility in this sphere and
by its recognition of the importance
of making a positive and constructive
contribution to economic cooperation
in Europe, that the federal German
government will achieve influence
and authority both in the OEEC and
in its relations with other European
nations.

N OTHER SECTIONS of the econo-

mic picture the problems and ur-
gencies are equally pressing. The
more one studies them, the more one
realizes that they are all inextricably
bound together, and that the solutions
must be considered in the light of
the contribution which they are likely
to make to the attainment of the
general objective. What is wanted
in the sphere of government is not
a series of ad hoc injections and
stimuli, but a concerted plan. This
does not require a mass of controls
nor does it imply interference with
enterprise, but it does necessitate the
setting up of a program and a con-
tinuous follow-up system.

Production in industry has doubled
in a year. It must make very nearly
the same percentage advance in the
next two and a half years that it has
made in the past 14 months if the
standard of life at which we are
aiming is to be achieved, and the pro-
gram submitted to the OEEC fulfilled.
There is nothing impossible or ‘even
too difficult in this task. The plant
and equipment exist, the raw mate-
rials have been programmed and are
flowing in, and an adequate labor
force of good workers is available.

Indeed there is much more labor
available than can readily be ab-
sorbed in productive industry on the
programs envisaged, and it will be
necessary to promote and foster other
avenues of employment if the dis-
couraging and economically waste-
ful—as well as politically and socially

8

harmful—emergence of a major un-
employment problem is to be pre-
vented.

IHAT THERE is work for those

who want it in most parts of
western Germany today cannot be
denied. Agriculture has made big
strides, but there is still a lot to do
in that field; the basic industries are
reasonably well-staffed, but their
targets are still much ahead of their
performance; merchant shipbuilding
and the possession of a merchant
marine are again permitted; but per-
haps the biggest opening for employ-
ment, which ought to be available
now, is in the building and con-
struction trades and in the industries
which will be called upon to provide
the requirements of these trades when
the job of physical reconstruction is
tackled in real earnest.

Germany brought upon herself de-
struction of property on a scale which
is unparalleled in any area of equal
size, If housing and living conditions
are to be on a par with the other
amenities which Germany is now ob-
taining on an ever increasing scale,
then the federal and state govern-
ments and the building and civil
engineering industries will have to
make exceptional efforts.

To support these efforts the people
will have to accept special and severe
taxation and private investors will
have to come forward with their sav-
ings and capital. Foreign investment
may play an important part in future
industrial development, but the phy-
sical reconstruction of Germany and
the re-creation of homes for the Ger-
man people is primarily a German
problem financially, economically and
socially. The Economic Cooperation
Administrator may assist,. but the
main task is and should be a Ger-
man one.

IHE IMPRESSION I have is that

the forward march of the economy
has not been halted, but that it will
require continuous effort if the pro-
duction targets which have been set
in the OEEC programs are to be
achieved.

In the coal industry it should be
possible to get back to prewar output
quite quickly. There is still some
slack in the manshift output which
should be taken up, and nothing

(Continued on page 39)

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 12 ---
Our German Publications

— — Play Important Role in Reorientation

| Fabs DISTINCTLY different types
of US published periodicals today
reach out to the 46,000,000 people of
Western Germany and as the voice
of the Office of the US High Commis-
sioner are getting the American
message across to the Germans on a
widespread scale.

The five German language publica-
tions are:

Die Neue Zeitung (The New News-
paper), daily newspaper with editions
published in Frankfurt, Munich and
Berlin,

HEUTE (Today), biweekly picture
magazine,

Der Monat (The Month), serious
monthly international review of
politics and culture.

Neue Auslese (New Selections),
monthly digest of the best of British
and American magazine articles and
essays,

Amerikanische Rundschau (American
Review), serious cultural bimonthly
magazine.

Each of these publications was
created to attract the interest of a
different social stratum of German
life, thereby insuring that they reach
a reading public culled from a wide
cross-section of the population.

RODUCED UNDER

Services Division's Publishing
Operations Branch, the periodicals
constitute a vital link between HICOG
and the German population in its
mission of reorientating the Germans
along democratic lines.

Publishing Operations is a direct
outgrowth of one of the most im-
portant phases of the wartime Psycho-
logical Warfare Divisions, a special
staff division of the Supreme Head-
quarters, Allied Expeditionary Force
(SHAEF). :

In the bomb-shattered Munich plant
of the former Nazi Voelkischer Beo-
bachter, the official Nazi Party organ,
Publishing Operations Branch, a small

Information

NOVEMBER 1949

By AILEEN S. MILES
Information Bulletin Staff Writer

unit of trained American news and
publishing personnel, launched the
publications which today are widely
read throughout the .western zones.

Despite the handicaps and shortages
in the difficult years of the early
occupation, the branch managed to
build and maintain a_ circulation
beyond the expectations of US oc-
cupation officials.

The closing of the Eastern zone to
Western publications by the Soviets
and, later, currency reform slashed
circulation figures of the US publish-
ed as well as the German licensed
publications and a 60 percent overall
drop in circulation shortly after
monetary reform created new prob-
lems in fulfilling the US reorientation
mission.

HEN, AS NOW, the publications

did not attempt to compete eco-
nomically with licensed German
media. Although produced under Mili-
tary Government auspices, they shared
material restrictions such as the
allocation of paper, ink and other
essentials along with the licensed
press, Frequency of publication was
determined by such restrictions while
price charges were kept in line with
the struggling new German press.

Advertising, prohibited in the US
published periodicals until last month,
is now accepted in all five publications
with rates set higher than any com-
parable German publication in order
to meet the demand for advertising
space while minimizing the com-
petitive element.

Headed by Raymond J. Stover,
veteran American newsman and
publisher, the branch attempts to be
self-supporting, paying the bulk of its
operating expenses from _ current
income.

MONG THE MOST widely read

of Publishing Operations produc-
tions is Die Neue Zeitung, which was
established in-Munich in October 1945,

9

its masthead proclaiming it the
“American newspaper for the German
people.” Published twice weekly, it
was directed, as “the official voice of
Military Government,” to bring the
American point of view to German
readers and to serve as an example
of the best in American journalism
for the German press. In 1947 the
paper established a Berlin edition
which continued to gain in popularity
along with its companion newspaper
in Munich,

Die Neue Zeitung's aims and policies
as enunciated by General Dwight D.
Fisenhower in the first issue remain
substantially the same today:

“First: As distinguished from those
German newspapers which are now

“ published by German publishers and

which represent the beginning of a
free press in Germany, Die Neue Zei-
tung will be an official organ of the
American authorities...

“Second: Die Neue Zeitung, as an
American newspaper published in the
German language, will set an example
for the new German press through the
objectivity of its reporting, through
unconditional devotion to truth in its
articles, and through high journalistic
standards.

“Third: Through its emphasis on the
affairs of the world, Die Neue Zei-
tung will widen the view of the Ger-
man reader by giving him facts which
were suppressed in Germany during
the 12 years of National Socialistic
tule.

“Fourth: Die Neue Zeitung will be
a factor in demonstrating to the Ger-
man people the necessity of the
tasks which lie ahead of them. These
tasks include self-help, the elimina-
tion of Nazism and militarism from
the German mind, and the active
denazification of German government
and business.” .

In carrying out its mission as
an example of the best in US

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
journalism, the paper broke with Ger-
man tradition by establishing an
editorial page where opinion was
sharply separated from news. Ex-
perienced American newsmen inau-
gurated modern methods of factual
reporting among the German staff and
presented a balanced ratio of American
and world news and views along with
German news and opinion.

By February 1946, Die Neue Zeitung
reached its + peak circulation:
1,600,000 copies. At that point its
circulation was restricted to approxi-
mately 1,500,000 copies because of
newsprint shortage.

By the end of June 1946 the pro-
portionate number of readers de-
creased as the number of licensed
German newspapers increased. Where
German readers read more than one
newspaper, Die Neue Zeitung was
usually their supplementary choice
and after their desire for local news
had been met by German newspapers
they augmented their news reading
with features and world news sup-
plied by the MG organ,

Drastic slashes in circulation figures
became apparent after currency re-
form but despite the sharp drop In-
formation Services Division officials
felt that reader interest warranted a
daily newspaper with editions printed
in Berlin, Munich and Frankfurt. In
July 1949, therefore, Die Neue Zeitung
became a daily newspaper in these
three areas carrying the official
American viewpoint on German and
world affairs to a wider reader public.
Today the paper reaches a key circle
of leaders of German opinion and
circulation figures run approximately:

Berlin, weekdays 34,521, Sundays
80,487; Munich 122,000; Frankfurt
109,713.

HE FIRST of the magazines to
appear was Die Amerikanische
Rundschau, devoted to presenting
American life to the Germans. The
initial issue went on sale in Berlin in
August 1945 with 100,000 copies print-
ed for the US occupied areas. With
a circulation today pared to ap-
proximately 10,600 the magazine is on
sale throughout western Germany.
Material for the magazine is pre-
pared in New York by the Periodical
Section of the Department of the
Army's Civil Affairs Division and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The impact of the “Voice of America” in carrying the message of the Ameri-
can people throughout the world and the efforts of the Soviets to jam these
radio broadcasts were described by George V. Allen, US assistant secretary of
state for public affairs, at a press conference Oct. 13 at the Victory Guest
House near Frankfurt. Mr. Allen (right) is shown at the conference with Arthur
Settel (left), chief of Public Relations Division, HICOG, and Allan Dreyfuss

(center), Reuters correspondent.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

printed by Publishing Operations
Branch in Munich, The Rundschau
selects the best US writing from the
scientific, cultural and philosophical
fields. The articles are general in
character, comprising a selection of
essays, short stories and poetry of
US origin designed to appeal mainly
to the serious reader. Typical of the
magazine's content are contributions
by such outstanding American writers
as Stephen Vincent Benet, Archibald
MacLeish and Joseph Wood Krutch,
among others.

German readers of high intellectual
level greeted the magazine with
praise and welcomed it as the first
uncolored presentation of trends in
American cultural life they had been
permitted to read in more than a
decade. On the whole the Rundschau
is sober in tone and calculated to
appeal to the German intellectual
elite.

HE NEUE AUSLESE, on the other
hand, was planned as a Readers
Digest type of magazine. Published
monthly as a joint British-American
enterprise, the magazine has reached
a circulation of 46,102. It offers a

10

selection of outstanding foreign
articles and fiction of high literary
and reorientation value. With a much
wider reader appeal than the Rund-
schau, the Neue Auslese has reprinted
articles from such well-known maga-
zines as Harpers, Saturday Evening
Post, New Statesman, Nation and La
France Libré. The main editorial
office is in London and material is
prepared there by a joint British-
American editorial board and then
forwarded to Munich for printing.
The third overt publication to ap-
pear shortly after V-E Day was
HEUTE, fashioned somewhat after the
magazines Life or Look. Conceived
and planned by the Publications
Branch of the Office of War In-
formation, even before the Nazi sur-
render, the first number was produced
in London early in the summer of

1945. Distribution in Germany,
however, was delayed until mid-
September.

HEUTE first went on sale in Berlin
in September 1945 and the supply
was exhausted almost within the first
hour. Beginning with a circulation of

(Continued on page 39)

NOVEMBER 1949.

--- Page 14 ---
Postwar Publishing

— — Germany Producing 5,000 Titles A Year
By LAURENCE P. DALCHER

UBLISHING in postwar Germany,

freed of occupation restrictions,
is seeking its own level as a medium
for shaping west German thought.

A little more than four years ago
American army officers, charged with
the control of German book and
periodical publishing, posted notices
in all cities of the newly-designated
American Zone of occupation an-
nouncing the content of Law 191
prohibiting publishing and all in-
formation media activities except as
licensed by Military Government.

Today the period of occupation
stewardship over German publishing
operations has ceased and the newly-
formed German publishing industry
has developed into a powerful in-
strument for molding German thought
and action, Licensing requirements
have been eliminated in the states
and replaced by German laws guaran-
teeing press freedoms, State publica-
tions branches have been abolished in
line with reduction and consolidation
of the Information Services Division.

In this four-year period the Ger-
man publishing industry has regained
considerable vitality. New ideas have
been stimulated, physical production
difficulties have been overcome, cur-
rency reform alleviated the tight paper
control as paper mill production
began to roll, and book shops are
well stocked in striking contrast to
the empty shelves confronting the
reading hungry public after V-E Day.

OOK PRODUCTION in the US

Zone is now operating at a rate
of more than 5,000 titles per year
as compared with the 10,000 new titles
produced yearly in the United States.
Competition among publishers is keen,
while the trend in reader interest has
undergone marked changes.

The original mission of ISD'S
Publications Branch aimed at the
denazification, demilitarization and de-
mocratization of the German publish-
ing industry. Policies were designed
for long-range goals. Attention was

NOVEMBER 1949

centered on the redevelopment of
German information media along
democratic lines to replace the pro-
paganda mouthpieces of the Nazi
machine. Operating procedures were,
of necessity, experimental.

Policies governing the licensing of
publishers in the US Zone emphasized
the selection of politically pure, demo-
cratic minded Germans upon whom
full responsibility could be placed for
producing reeducational publications.

As a result, production in the US
Zone was slow in hitting its stride.
MG's policy was based on the belief
that books are long range social in-
struments affecting men’s backgrounds
and patterns of thought. To obtain long-
term results, it would be necessary
to build a democratic publishing in-
dustry as a part of a healthy German
economy. The goal was to get the

tight German publishers issuing for ©

German readers the facts and ideas
of our times in a form free from
bias, prejudice or pressured interests.
The original policy planners assum-
ed—and later events demonstrated—
that the German mind has a healthy
suspicion of facts and principles
presented by unknown sources. The
final reading material presented to
Germans might contain American
contributions, but the bulk would have
to take the form of Germans speaking
to other Germans. America could not
“take over” the German publishing
industry.
a 1945 as Publications Branch faced
the problems of reconstituting the
German publishing industry it was
apparent that the damage was more
than physical. For example, Military
Government, in an effort to meet the
interim needs of German readers

This article is a digest of the review
and report submitted by Mr. Dalcher
shortly before he left for the United
States in August. He had been chief of
the Publications Branch of the Informa-
tion Services Division since the summer
of 1948 and prior to that deputy chief.

11

during the first six months of the
Occupation, distributed 35,000 copies
each of some 25 outstanding US books
in German translation, Yet two years
later when a survey was conducted
to measure German postwar reading,
no mention of any of these books
was made by any respondent.

Again, in the fight against anti-Semit-
ism, Publications Branch encouraged
and assisted a German publisher to
bring out an edition of the excellent
work by James Parke entitled “Anti-
Semitism, the Enemy of the People.”
But how much “success should be
recorded when the publisher sold
during the first year following publi-
cation only 700 copies of the 10,000
printed?

It would be an error, however, to
state that the German people reject
all serious works which aim to replace
totalitarian concepts with democratic
ideals. The most popular book in
Germany from 1946 through 1948 was
“Der SS Staat’’ (The SS State) by
Eugen Kogon, a. survivor of the Bu-
chenwald camp. The book is a clear,
objectively written description of the
Nazi concentration camp horrors, and
Germans voluntarily purchased more
than 250,000 copies,

Likewise, they bought 200,000 copies
of the volume compiled from the
Nuremberg speeches of Justice Robert
Jackson, The sales of the booklet
selected from Secretary of State James
F, Byrnes’ “Speaking Frankly” totaled
more than 500,000 copies.

N PRE-NAZI times, Germany provid-

ed the world with 30,000 new book
titles per year. Under Hitler, the social
sciences and the humanities were
discouraged to the degree that there
were no ruins on which to build, In
the imaginative and creative writing
fields, where so many millions of
people are first stimulated to new
thoughts, the great German writers |
had been exiled.

Perhaps the most convincing demon-
stration of the meaning of the Nazi

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 15 ---
state to the German publishing’ in-
dustry is to be found in the scientific
and medical field. There the German
contribution once held unrivaled su-
premacy. But the production of the
last seven years of the Nazi regime
was untrustworthy. Science had been
perverted as the pre-scientific ideas
of Hitler gained in authority. One
officer hazarded the guess that even
if World War II had been averted,
it is probable that the German
publishing industry would have shown
steady declines,

It was simple to lift the restrictions
against thinking and writing. But to
stimulate new ideas, to set the atmos-
phere for democratic exchanges and
discussions required infused stimula-
tions via American and British authors.
Of this necessity, the “Translations
Rights Program” was born,

As it was illegal for German authors
and publishers to negotiate for rights
and services outside Germany—em-
phasis is now being shifted to encour-
age direct negotiations between Ger-
man and American publishers—it re-
mained for Publications Branch to
procure with public funds the German
translation rights to outstanding Amer-
ican books, and then to resell these
rights to German publishers.

RODUCTION PROBLEMS were

the major ones retarding the
publication of books and pamphlets
during the first three years. The pro-
gram was complicated by a number
of difficulties—the need to eliminate
objectionable books from existing
stocks; a lack of good new manu-
scripts; shortage of printing paper;
dearth of experienced and able wri-
ters; lack of capable publishers poli-
tically acceptable for licensing; and
the checking of new manuscripts for
violations of MG directives. In many
places bomb debris had to be cleared
and equipment repaired before print-
ing plants could be operated.

During the first three postwar years,
the extreme shortage of paper con-
strained licensing policies. The fact
that the number of book publishers
and the number of periodicals were
sharply restricted owing to paper
shortage produced a condition closely
approaching censorship although the
works of licensed publishers were
never actually censored,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Trooping the Color”
celebration of Salerno Day on Sept.9 in Olympic Place in Berlin. The Regi-
mental Color has been trooped down the file as ae Guard to the Color passed

through the piles.

by the Queen's Royal Regiment highlighted the British

(BAOR photo)

Due to MG's control of paper pro-
duction and allocation of tonnages,
German publications for the first three
years represented MG licensing pref-
erences and priorities more than Ger-
man reader demand.

Production problems were so well
in hand by the beginning of 1948,
however, due to the expanding Ger-
man economy, that attention was con-
centrated on the final major tasks of
setting up trade practices and press
laws to safeguard the new demo-
cratic German publishing industry
against future infringements,

German publishers and book dealers
were encouraged to develop a western
German Boersenverein (Trade Orga-
nization) which would act to protect
their rights.

ILITARY GOVERNMENT an-

nounced its policy to withdraw
from licensing operations upon the
passage of adequate state legislation
which would protect press freedoms.
In the meantime, with the decontrol of
paper after currency reform, it was
possible to liberalize the granting of
licenses to _ politically-acceptable
applicants in the book and periodical
publishing fields, It appeared desirable
to prevent a sudden sprouting of new

publishers at some future date which.

might dislodge the politically-reliable
publishers who were put in dominant

12

control of the publishing industry by
Military Government.

Today all US licensing controls
have been voluntarily given up and
German press laws guaranteeing the
freedom of the press are in effect in
all four states in the US Zone, To
back up these laws, the Allied High
Commissioners Sept, 22 issued a Press
Law covering all of Western Germany
which rescinds a complex of previous
US, British and French regulations,
and which provides a clear statement
of the sanctions applicable against
those who transgress the guaranteed
press freedoms and against publishers
and distributors of material “affecting
or likely to affect the prestige or
security” of the occupation.

The German publishing industry is
thus restricted only in publishing
works which promote national social-
ism or anti-Semitism, or endanger the
prestige or security of the occupation,
Censorship long since has ceased to
exist,

It was, however, up to the West
German currency reform of June 1948
to finally loosen the log jam of pro-
duction problems. Its effect on the
publishing industry was more wide-
spread than any other single factor
since the beginning of the occupation,
It brought to the entire German
publishing industry a basis of realism

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 16 ---
which had been noticeably absent in
the first three years of Military Gov-
ernment.

ONETARY REFORM was follow-

ed by the release of paper ra-
tioning and a lifting of the tight
restriction on the number of book
publishers and the number of peri-
odicals permitted to appear. Publishers
became free to print whatever edition
sizes, page numbers and advertise-
ment ratios they felt best represented
their needs.

Paper production for the publishing
industry in the US Zone alone in-
creased by almost 300 percent, accord-
ing to unconfirmed statistics received
by the Publications Branch. This sharp
tise in paper production, however,
provided periodicals with opportuni-
ties for greatly-increased circulations
but failed to alleviate the problems
of the book publishing industry.

Paper mill production is devoted
almost entirely to lightweight roll
paper, best suited for magazines, while
woodfree paper remains almost un-
available. When book paper is avail-
able it averages 100 percent above
pre-currency reform prices, book
publishers in all states of Western
Germany report.

WEEPING DEVELOPMENTS in

all sections of the entire industry
shortly after currency reform produced
three significant trends:

First, book production in the US
Zone expanded to a rate of more
than 5,000 titles per year. This re-
presents a new competitive high in
the ‘quest for reader attention, par-
ticularly since so few Deutsche marks
are being spent for publications. Based
on current reports from publishers, it
is expected that approximately 40 per-
cent of the German publishers may
be forced to discontinue operations
within the next 12 months. Those who
remain in the field may not necessari-
ly be those who best represent the
strong democratic publishing industry
Military Government sought to
establish.

Secondly, the competition faced by
book publishers is certain to increase.
Limited quantities of English language
books will soon be available to Ger-
man readers for Deutsche marks under
the conversion-to-the-extent-of-cost
provisions of the Marshall Plan.

NOVEMBER 1949

Thirdly, there has been a decided
content shift toward more popular
material produced by both book and
periodical publishers in their efforts
to remain solvent. Publishers noted
for educational materials are fre-
quently issuing mystery stories and
similar works of light entertainment
at the expense of content material
which would contribute to political
and social reorientation. Particularly
in the scientific and technical fields,

once the spine of the German
publishing industry, sacrifices have
been made which are _ traceable

directly to currency reform,

IHE GERMAN book reader has
forced a sharp upswing in the
production of fiction, travel and other
books of entertainment. But even in
these fields, only works of outstand-
ing quality have circulation figures
which indicate wide reader interest.
Publication of booklets and pam-
phlets, a feature of the three years
preceding currency reform, has dimin-
ished to prewar proportions.
Today, books of a political nature

present the gravest of German
publishing risks. Reader interest, as

expressed in terms of book sales, has
been sated. In 1947 the belief was
common that an excellent novel by a
well-known author was a_ sure-fire
vehicle for a political theme. ‘“Dark-
ness at Noon” by Koestler was the
oft-quoted example of the book for
which no print run would satisfy
demands. Yet when this title was
published in a modest edition early
in 1949, the publisher found that sales
were brisk only to the extent of
20,000 copies.

Physical standards in publishing
have improved as the German book
reader now demands higher pro-
duction standards for his Deutsche
marks. German book paper may lack
sizing, but cloth-bound books are not
uncommon. The back stripping of
books in cloth seems to present the
new minimum standard for accept-
ability by German readers.

Currency reform marked the. be-
ginning of a fierce struggle among
German publishers for public favor
and increased circulations. In Ger-

many, as in America, circulation in-
creases are likely to result from hard-
hitting protest campaigns generating

(Continued on page 41)

oe |

Members of a congressional committee inspecting refugee and DP conditions

in Germany visit Munich,

where

they conferred recently with OLC

Bavaria officials. Left to right are Walter Bestermann, special consultant to
committee; Rep. J. Frank Wilson, Texas; Rep. Francis E. Walter, Pennsylvania,
committee chairman; Murray D. Wagoner, director, OLCB; and Rep. Frank

Fellows, Maine.

13

(PRD OLCB photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 17 ---
Germany’s Most Costly Adventure

HEN ADOLF HITLER in 1939

ordered his armies to march into
Poland, he plunged Germany into the
most fabulously expensive adventure
in its history. The cost to Germany
of World War II, as estimated on the
basis of incomplete Reich budget
figures for the war years, has been
assessed at 510,000,000,000 Reichsmarks
($214,200,000,000*), a sum so vast it
is beyond the comprehension of the
average German in the street.

In an endeavor to make this figure
register in the public mind, the
Institut fuer Wirtschaftsforschung
(Economic Research Institute) in Mu-
nich resorted to illustrations to drive
home, in simple, understandable terms,
what instead might have been done
for Germany and her people.

The institute's findings were featur-
ed graphically in a recent issue by
HEUTE (Today), US-published biweek-
ly pictorial magazine (see page 9),
and are reproduc-
ed in translated
form in the In-
formation Bulle-
tin (see opposite
page and adjoin-
ing column).

T SHOULD BE

explained that
the Economic Re-
search Institute
made sweeping
reductions, as
study of the il-
lustrations will
show, Initially it
discounted _ the
aggregate figure
of 510,000,000,000
marks by some
60,000,000,000 by
ascribing that
margin to in-
creased wartime
costs, On the ba-
sis of 1938 price
levels, it main-
tains, the cost to

* Based on the official
German-pegged _pre-
war exchange rate
of 42 cents for one
Reichsmark.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Germany of World War II would have
been approximately 450,000,000,000
marks,

A second deduction of 50,000,000,000
marks was made to cover the portion
borne by the German-occupied coun-
tries, an item on which only incom-
plete figures are available. As these
levies saved the German economy an
estimated 50,000,000,000 marks, the
cost to the German nation of World
War II was cut to 400,000,000,000
marks,

The huge amounts budgeted for
prosecution of the war imposed the
severest restrictions on the individual's
consumption, a logical conclusion
attested to by the harsh economic
controls imposed during the war as
well as by the average individual's
excess of puchasing power—money
he could jingle in his pockets without
being able to convert into consumer
goods normally available. This neces-

270,000,000,000 Marks

q would have. provided
a fully-furnished and fully-equipped
_ Home with Garden and Automobile ©
for every Family in Germany!

14

sarily idle and accordingly useless
surplus was put at 40,000,000,000
marks and when deducted from the
war bill slashed it to 360,000,000,000
marks.

HE INSTITUTE then revealed what

might have been done with this
colossal sum—reckoned in terms of
purchasing power at 1938 price levels.
To convert it into terms of con-
sumer goods, it would have been
necessary first to invest an estimated
90,000,000,000 in production plants, Of
this 90,000,000,000 marks, 35,000,000,000
would have gone into improvement
of existing production facilities and
55,000,000,000 into new construction.

The remaining 270,000,000,000 marks
it is stressed, would have provided
20,000 marks for each family of five
in Germany! This amount thus would
have given the average family enough
money to buy a comfortable house,
completely furnished even to radio set
and refrigerator
plus a trim little
garden and an
automobile.

The institute
noted that many
Germans no doubt
would have pref-
erred to do with-
out some of these
blessings, would
rather not have
worked so hard
and foregone some
part or all of this
money. Likewise,
in its survey, the
institute delibera-
tely omitted any
consideration of
the lives and pro-
perty lost through
air and land ac-
tion during the
hostilities. It al-
lowed the one
prosaic fact to
speak for itself:—

510,000,000,000
marks were
squandered on
war!

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
Bizonia Industrial
Output Sets Record

Bizonal Germany's industrial pro-
duction was higher in August than in
any other month since the beginning
of the occupation in 1945, according to
the Bipartite Commerce and Industry
Group's last summary. The production
index rose from 87 percent of the 1936
level in July to 91 percent in August,
surpassing by one point the previous
postwar record month: March 1949,
The index for August 1948, the cor-
responding month of last year, was
65 percent of the 1936 level.

Of the 17 industrial groups for which
figures are available, 15 groups re-
corded increases ranging from one to
10 index points. Production of motor
vehicles led with a 10-point rise, while
output of textiles and clothing and
leather products each climbed nine
points, The large increase in the two
latter groups since July was attributed
to the industries’ preparation for fall
and winter sales of those goods.

An all-time production record is
the present output of electricity and
gas, which has consistently stood
above the 1936 production level since
October 1947, climbing to 148 percent
in August. This high figure reflects
the extensive electrification of Ger-
man industry since 1936 as well as
the higher household demand result-
ing from the greatly increased popula-
tion. An allied field production of
electrical equipment stands at 168 per-
cent, indicating the rapid development
of this industry in the Bizone since
its separation from the former centers
in Berlin and the Soviet Zone.

The only two groups recording
decreases in August were machinery
and optical goods, and petroleum and
coal products, which declined one and
two points respectively. Petroleum
and coal products, however, have
soared from 66 percent to 125 percent
over the past one or two months, due
mainly to the reactivation of refining
capacity in the Bizonal Area, and the
increased imports of crude oil which
were processed in bizonal refineries.

Reorientation Bears Fruit
The July issue of the US-licensed
Frankfurter Hefte carried an article
entitled “Jessica” by Annemarie
Langens,, one of the group of German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE RATE of industrial production

in the Bizonal Area has not
varied greatly since the beginning of
1949, although there was a slight up-
ward trend during the first few months.
This leveling-off period continued in
July, when the index of industrial
production rose one index point to
87 percent of the 1936 base-period
level from 86 percent (revised) in
June. However, the larger number of
working days in July would account
for an even larger rise in the index,
which is not adjusted for variations
in the length of the month or for
public holidays.

The halt in the post-monetary
reform upswing is attributed to finan-
cial and sales difficulties rather than to
bottlenecks in production. In general,
industry is adequately supplied
with fuel and power, raw materials
and labor. In July the vacation season
affected production,

Certain industrial groups, however,
advanced strongly in July. Petroleum
and coal products gained another

Industrial Activity for July 1949

tise which has carried the index for
this group from 77 percent of the 1936
level in January to 127 percent in
July. The rise in the daily average
output of hard coal to a new postwar
record, as well as the longer month,
brought the index for coal to 94 percent
of the 1936 level.

Electricity and gas advanced nine
percent, meeting all major demands
on supply. Mining excluding coal set
a record for the second consecutive
month at 137 percent of the 1936 level
as potash, crude oil, iron ore and
pyrites gained sharply. Stones and
earths gained seven percent, with
bricks and cement particularly active.

On the whole, the consumer goods
industries lagged behind the ' pro-
duction of basic materials, The sharp-
est decline occured in leather and
leather products, and the gains in
rubber were low in relation to
the increase in the number of working
days.—from Bipartite Section of US
Military Governor's Monthly Report

12 percent, continuing the steady No. 49.
Index of Volume of Industrial Production
(Not Adjusted for Seasonal Variation)
1936 : 100
1948 1949 "fe of Change
in July vs.
Industry Groups July May June Julya June
TOTAL 61 88 186 87 +1
Coal 5 a 0.0) 5) Glo 83 90 187 94 +8
Mining (excluding Coal) 104 127 130 137 +5
Iron & Steel Production 40 63 161 63 +3
Nonferrous. Metal. Production 56 80 176 7 +1
Iron & Steel Construction 74 bf bf bi
Machinery & Optical Goods . 45 89 189 ot +2
Vehicles lenonore rr 86 92 94 +2
Electrical Equipment . 94 1731168 162 —4
Other Metal Goods 36 44 b b
Stones & Earths 2B 96 102 109 +7
Glass & Ceramics . 76 116 109 111 +2
Petroleum & Coal Products . 68 122 113 127 +12
Chemicals 2.1... 64 86 189 87 —2
Rubber Products ce 90 94 191 92 +1
Sawmills & Woodworking . 57 85 80 79 —1
Paper & Products : 58 89 83 84 +1
Leather & Products 55 Th 174 62 —16
Textiles & Clothing . 54 93 86 88 +2
Electricity & Gas 112 136 127 139 +9

a—Preliminory.

b—Noi available. The index for all industry groups, however, contains estimates for the groups

for which full information is not yet available.

1t—Revised.

editors and publishers who studied
in the United States during 1948 under
the MG reorientation program. The
author deals with the situation of the
American Negro in an eminently ob-

jective manner. The article, written
by a German: in the German idiom
and published by a German periodical
of high repute, typifies the best results
of US reorientational efforts.

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 20 ---
Germany’s Liberal Groups

(\ ERMAN LIBERALISM had its brief

day of glory in the Revolution
of 1848. The National Assembly that
met in Frankfurt on the Main that
year was largely composed of middle-
class democrats who had two objects
in mind: to establish German unity
and to set up a democratic form of
government.

The German liberals failed when
the Prussian king refused to accept
the crown of the constitutional
monarchy outlined in the constitution
drafted in Frankfurt. Germany unity
thus was not achieved under demo-
cratic auspices but later under the
leadership of autocratic Prussia
through the “blood and iron” policy
of Bismarck,

Indeed, it may jbe said that German
liberalism has suffered greatly from
the fact that it has never been able
to attain a position of power and
responsibility.

German liberalism split over Bis-
marck's Indemnity Act of 1886 and
this division persisted until 1933. In
1866, ‘the Iron Chancellor persuaded
the king of Prussia to lay before the
Prussian legislature a bill of indem-
nity to give retrospective assent to
the taxes and expenditures, made by
the government since the beginning
of the Austrian-Prussian War of 1864,
which heretofore had, not been autho-
rized. A cleavage in the Progressive
(Liberal) party resulted from this
action.

HOSE RIGHT-WING liberals who

were prepared to support Bis-
marck's policy and to abandon the
full achievement of their objectives
in home affairs for the sake of what
they regarded as the more important
aim of national unity, formed the
“National Liberal Party’ under the
leadership of Rudolf von Benningsen.
They supported Bismarck's foreign
policy in the hope of obtaining con-
cessions to liberal policy in domestic
affairs in return. As the party of
the big industrialists, they succeeded
in getting the German government to

NOVEMBER 1949

— — Third of Series

adopt a high protection tariff. The
National Liberals were perhaps the
Iron Chancellor's principal parliament-
ary prop.

But the left wing of the split party
retained the name of Progressives and
remained steadily in opposition,
because it refused to support any
government which did not take its
stand for the liberal program as a
whole,

German liberalism was enormously
weakened by this split and never
fully recovered from the conse-
quences. In the Weimar republic, the
division between the libera!s continu-
ed, The progressives assumed the
name of Democratic party and later
of State Party, while the National
Liberals transformed themselves into
the German People’s Party and
represented chiefly the big industri-
alists.

HE DEMOCRATS had their golden

age in the early days of the
Weimar republic, In the elections to
the National Assembly at Weimar,
the Democrats polled 5,500,000 votes,
or 18.6 percent of the electorate. Hugo
Preuss, a Democrat, was the James
Madison of the Weimar republic.
Other outstanding democrats were
Otto Gessler, the minister of defense,
and Hermann Dietrich, finance minister
in the Bruening government. But the
party's strength declined steadily and,
in 1932, it polled less than one percent
of the votes and returned only two
deputies to the Reichstag.

The German People’s Party's chief
claim to fame is its leader for many
years, Dr. Gustav Stresemann, the
German foreign minister, But the

The salient facts regarding the history,
background, aims, organization, leader-
ship and membership of the German
political parties of today, have been
drawn from a volume on the “Political
Parties in Western Germany” issued
recently by the Civil Affairs Division,
OMGUS. This article detailing the
historical antecedents of German liberal-
ism will be followed by others dealing
with postwar Germany's lesser political
factions.

17

on Political Parties

German People's Party never achieved
any large public following and was
finally submerged in the Nazi flood.

The Free Democratic Party was
called into life at Heppenheim, Hesse,
on Dec, 11-12, 1948 as the political
organization of present-day German
liberalism.

Previously, since 1945, the Liberal
parties of western Germany had been
known under several names:

Free Democratic Party (FDP), in
the British Zone and in Bavaria,

Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), in
Berlin and in Hesse,

Democratic People’s Party (DVP),
in the French Zone and in Wuert-
temberg-Baden.

Bremen Democratic People’s Party
(BDV), in Bremen,

HESE CONSOLIDATED liberal

parties today represent a poli-
tically progressive, but an econom-
ically conservative, point of view.
The democrats are thus the spiritual
heirs of the liberals who made the
German Revolution of 1848 and the
champions at present of all the
democratic principles associated with
that movement. But, at the same time,
they constitute the only important
political group in Germany today
which stands unquatifiedly for free
enterprise and the capitalistic
economic system.

That is why it is often so hard to
tell whether the FDP is a leftist or a
rightist Party. It votes with the SPD
on matters of governmental structure
and cultural questions, but with the
CDU on economic affairs.

The liberal parties find their largest
following in the upper middie class
of the cities and towns. The Party
appeals primarily to professional
peopte, such as lawyers and bankers,
to merchants, freethinking and anti-
clerical elements and to Protestants
who feel that the CDU is still too
much under the influence of the

Catholic Church.
(Continued on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
There is no doubt that many
Germans now vote for the FDP (and
for the CDU, too, for that matter),
simply because there are no parties
further to the Right, for whom they
would actually prefer to vote. Con-
sequently, there is a natural tendency
for the FDP to yield to the pressure
from nationalist elements in order to
win votes, In Wuerttemberg-Baden,
traditional home of German liberalism,
the party inclines to the left while
in Hesse it leans to the right.

HEODOR HEUSS is the spokes-

man of the first tendency, just as
August Martin Euler is of the other.
This double-headed feature of the
FDP can also in part be explained by
the fact the party includes members
who formerly, under the Weimar
Republic, belonged to the leftist
Democratic Party as well as others
who were connected with the rightist
German People’s Party.

Although the FDP is one of the four
major parties of western Germany,
being organized in all 11 states andin
Berlin, it is much smaller than the
SPD an the CDU/CSU. Only in one
State did it receive more than 20
percent of the votes cast (21.9 percent
in Hesse) while it has received less
than 10 percent in three of the four
states of the British Zone,

In the spring of 1947, the Liberal
parties of all four zones of Germany
were loosely organized by a sort of
“working committee” similar to that
of the ‘CDU/CSU. Two co-chairmen
were elected as the head of its liaison
body. They were Theodor Heuss: for
the west and the late Dr. Wilhelm
Kuelz for the east.

HE ORGANIZATION was broken

up by the endeavors of the
eastern group to inveigle the western
parties into an interzonal policital
organization in which the Soviet-
sponsored Socialist Unity Party was
to be represented. This was the so-
called “national representation” idea,
of which Jakob Kaiser, then of the
Soviet zone CDU party, permitted
himself to be made the exponent. At
an interzonal committee meeting
held in the summer of 1947, the
western liberals ertracted a promise
from Dr. Kuelz. that he would have
nothing to do with such an organiza-
tion,

INFORMATION BULLETIN -

They were consequently indignant
when, the following November, Dr.
Kuelz led his LDP into the Soviet-
sponsored People’s Congress. Dr.
Heuss immediately read Kuelz out
of the party and forbade him to
attend any further interzonal com-
mittee meetings. At a meeting held
in February 1948, the eastern liberals
refused to alter their stand and left
the hall. That step marked the final
split between the western and eastern
liberals,

It was not until Dec, 11, 1948, that
Liberals from all three western zones
as well as from the western sectors
of Berlin got together and formed a
united party under the name of Free
Democratic Party. The name was
chosen in order to differentiate it from
the Russian-dominated Liberal De-
mocratic Party of the Eastern zone.
Eighty-nine delegates representing
liberal and democratic parties in all
parts of western Germany as well as
Berlin attended this gathering at
Heppenheim, Hesse.

ITH THIS DECISION, the FDP

became the third party to
become formally organized in western
Germany on an interzonal basis, The
other two are the SPD and the KPD.
Of the four major parties in the West,
only the CDU/CSU has so far failled
to establish a central organization,
relying on the so-called “CDU/CSU
Working Party” for coodination of the
policies of its various regional groups.

Although a small party, the FDP
contains a number of members of free
professions which is out of all pro-
portion to its numerical strength. This
is particularly the case in Wuert-
temberg-Baden where, although only
a small party, the FDP has provided
the state governor in the person of
Dr. Reinhold Maier, the only member
of his party to hold such a position.
The FDP is also represented in coali-
tion governments in Hesse, Bremen,
Hamburg and Wuerttemberg-Hohen-
zollern.

Above all, the FDP is the party of
freedom, the spiritual heir of middle-
class democrats who formed the
majority in the Frankfurt National
Assembly of 1948,

It is not for nothing that the first
point in the FDP platform calls for

18

“freedom of the individual, free
development and activity in all fields
of cultural and economic life. In the
middle point, of all thinking and
action stands man. He must not
become a slave of the machine or of
lifeless capital, the mere object of
an all-powerful state, the passive ob-
ject in the hand of a power-seeking
bureaucracy."

HE LIBERAL parties in western

Germany stand without reserva-
tion in favor of the free enterprise
system and of capitalist economy.
With some concession to modern
thinking they champion the doctrines
of the Manchester laissez-faire
school.* True to this ideology, the
Liberals were the only party in Hesse
that voted against the co-determina-
tion law, and against Article 41 of
the Bonn constitution which calls for
the socialization of industry,

Following this line of thought, too,
the FDP platform boasts that it “is
the bitterest foe of socialism and
planned economy, for both mean
nothing less than the realization of
monoploy dictatorship. By the state’s
control of the key industries as well
as of all means of production and
distribution, _ everybody, whether
tradesman, farmer or worker, will be
subjected to the absolute domination
of the. state bureaucracy. His
personal freedom and initiative will
be eliminated.”

The objective of the FDP, the plat-

“form goes on to say, is an economy

based on an ever-increasing number
of independent small and medium
sized firms in trade and agriculture.
“Only these firms will guarantee by
the personal will of their owners the
constant increase of production which
is indispensable for our future.”

Hence, the Liberal parties stand
for what has been called “rugged
individualism." They favor as little
economic control and planning as
possible,

Consequently, the party delegates
in the Bizonal Economic Council at
Frankfurt have ‘been stouter sup-
porters of Dr, Ludwig Erhard in his
policy of removing price controls and

(Continued on page 38)
““y Theodor Heuss even avows himself a

disciple of absolute Free Trade, the quint-
essence of Cobdenism.

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 22 ---
Political Aims at Bonn
— — Government and Opposition Programs

OVERNMENT AND opposition, in

two early sessions of the new
German Federal Republic's legis-
lature at Bonn, outlined programs
which will be pushed for months to
come through proposal and debate.

The first discussion was by Federal
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of the
Christian Democratic Union; the other
by Dr, Kurt Schumacher, the leader
of the opposition—the Socia] Demo-
cratic Party. As heads of the largest
political groups of western Germany,
these two men voiced the wishers of
nearly all voting Germans and the
ways in which these wishes may be-
come policy through the federal
government.

In the Sept. 20 session, Chancellor
Adenauer began his comments by
noting that the Occupation Statute,
while it imposed restrictions, was a
big step forward compared with con-
ditions existing under National So-
cialism and since 1945.

As for the policy of the Bizonal
Economic Council, formulated and
carried out during the past two and
a half years in Frankfurt with the
support of the CDU and against con-
siderable SPD opposition, “the so-
called social-market policy has
governed our whole circumstance so
completely that an alienation from
the program of the Frankfurt Economic
Council was impossible. The question
of social-market economy versus
planned economy has been the turning
point of the election campaign. A
large majority of the German people
voted against planned economy. A
coalition between one party which
favored the social-market economy
and one which opposed it would have
contradicted the will of the majority
of the electors.”

Adenauer said that the new govern-
ment would “continue to follow the
successful Frankfurt economic policy,
avoiding a  doctrinaire approach,
however, and adapting it as neces-

NOVEMBER 1949

SOCIAL Democratic Party was
not blamed for not agreeing to a
coalition with the CDU; in the chan-
cellor's opinion, “opposition is ne-
cessary in a state... opposition has
a political task to fulfil.”
Within the apparatus of the new
government the ministries will be
kept as small as possible.

“Among the federal ministries we
do not have a foreign minister. I
have not created a ministry for inter-
national relations. I did not do that
because... this function was reserved
by the Allied High Commission...
Although we do not have a foreign
ministry, we will not be inactive in
this sphere, since every act of the
Federal Government or of the Federal
Parliament in internal affairs has
some connection with international
relations.

“I believe that the High Com-
missioners... would not make any

important decisions concerning foreign _

affairs without prior discussions with
the Federal Government, Therefore,
a state secretariat will be set up
within the chancellory dealing with
these matters.”

- In the government's approach to

internal social affairs, “the coalition
partners are in unanimous agreement
that all their work must be guided as
far as possible by the principle of a
social policy in the best and truest
sense of the word... Refugees must
be more equitably distributed among
the states. We will promote energet-
ically the construction of houses.
Furthermore, carefully and by degrees
we will remove restrictions on space
and rents in order to interest private
capital in housing construction...

“The question of dismantling in-
terests the whole German people.
Dismantling also has great psycho-
logical importance. Large groups of
the German people do not understand
why economic assistance was given
them with one hand while economic
assets were destroyed with the
other... The whole German people

19

would be very glad... if the dis-
mantling problem could once again
be reviewed with regard to the Ger-
man wishes...

“The government should devote
itself particularly to consolidating
and helping the middle class. I am
convinced that the soundest and most
peaceful life has been led by those
peoples who comprised as many
separate middle-class and moderate-
income existences as possible...

GRICULTURAL PRODUCTION will

be increased and improved... If
the German economy is to achieve
a balance of trade by 1952, it is ne-
cessary ...to restrict the expenditures
on food imports... Production can
only be increased by a further reduc-
tion in state control and the creation
of safe markets and satisfactory
prices. The agricultural population
will have to be schooled in order to
met its responsibilities...

“Our special attention will be
directed to the problem of the surplus
of women. New professions and
means of education for women must
be found.”

Chancellor Adenauer made clear
the political direction which his party
would support: “The government is
determined to learn its lesson from
the past with regard to any attempt
to overthrow the state, whether by
left wing or by right wing radicalism.
The fears of right wing radicalism
expressed in the foreign press were,
however, greatly exaggerated (during
the recent election campaign)...

“We are entirely prepared to live in
peace with our eastern neighbors,
especially with Soviet Russia and
Poland... provided that Soviet Russia
and Poland allow our German coun-
trymen, also in the East Zone and in
Berlin, to lead their lives in free-
dom...

“The antipathy between Germany
and France, which had lasted hun-
dreds of years and caused so many
wars, destruction and bloodshed, must
be wiped out once and for all... We

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
wish to be included in a United
Europe as soon as possible.

“All our work will be based on
the spirit of western Christian culture
and on respect for the rights and
dignity of man. With God's help, we
hope to succeed in leading the Ger-
man people upward and in contri-
buting to peace in Europe and the
world.”

IHE REPLY to Chancellor Ade-
nauer'’s policy speech the next
day was a sharply-worded rebuttal
by Dr. Schumacher, who gave the
aims of the Social Democratic Party.
With regard to the social policy as
outlined by the chancellor, Schu-
macher said that it would be expen-
sive to carry out and he could see
little being done by a government
which was not particularly constituted
for the good of the people. Adenauer
had referred to a reduction in taxation.
If this was to be the basis for econo-
mic recovery, said Schumacher, then
it would come into competition with
occupation costs and social policy.
On this subject and similar ones the
government declaration tended to
make conditions seem better than
they were. It appeared, according to
Schumacher, that the government was
taking this approach in order to
excuse continuing the Frankfurt
economic policy.
Schumacher declared that the
SPD was surprised at the “idyllic

language" of Adenauer’s reports:
“we, however, declare everything is
worse than indicated in the govern-
ment declaration. The gist of the
government program is, beyond
doubt, that the line of economic
policy adopted in Frankfurt will be
continued.”

Stating that in general the chan-
cellor's speech was more interesting
because of what was not mentioned,
Schumacher said, “We cannot think
of a democratic state in which the
worker shall play such a minor part.
The word ‘worker’ was not even men-
tioned throughout the report... we
cannot think of any well-operating
social organism in which the trade
unions are ignored.”

CHUMACHER THEN dealt ex-
haustively with the role the opposi-

tion should play to clarify the rela-
tion between the government and the
SPD. “The opposition is not the
negation of proposals handed in by
the government, but is characterized
by permanent attempts to force upon
the government the positive, crea-
tive will of the opposition by means

of concrete proposals .. . Emanating
from the characteristics and makeup
of this government is the great

danger that (it) may finally become
an authoritarian state aiming at de-
fense of property. The makeup of
the government and tendencies indi-
cated yesterday by the chancellor

A second trade agreement between Uruguay and the Federal Republic of Ger-
many was signed in Frankfurt Oct. 11 at HQ Building. Left to right are
Uruguay's Galbiati; Ministers Plenipotentiary C.A.Cluloro and Dr. G. Terra,
and Ambassador F. Farina; French High Commission's P. Arrial; Allied Bank
Commission's Thomas; HICOG's Miss E. B. Dietrich; UK High Commission's
Griffin; and Germany's Dr. Mangold, Dr. Imhoff, Ferdinandt and Nicolai.
(Jacoby, PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

made it clear that the first period of
Weimar has been skipped and we are
already in the middle of the second
period characterized by absolute
restoration with pre-Weimar tenden-
cies... this includes the danger of
alienation of the working population
from the state and that is what we
are fighting against."

Commenting upon regular civil
service in Germany, Schumacher said
he believed civil service to be a good
thing when one could be sure that its
workers would strive faithfully for a
democratic government, but it was
undesirable to have a government
acting as an enormous employment
exchange for its own party. With
regard to the ministers themselves, he
thought, for example, that the present
finance minister from Bavaria would
not be able to forget his strong
state allegiance. For this reason there
had been no word from the chancellor
on equalization of financial burdens,
though it was essential that the
weaker states receiye financial help.

EVIEWING THAT part of the Ade-
nauer speech in which the chan-
cellor thanked foreign countries and
foreign organizations which had
aided Germany, he said, ‘We Social
Democrats are thankful with all our
hearts for the tremendous perfor-
mance of the American people and
the taxpayer of the United States,
but we think that even for American
ears the echo would have been more
pleasant if the deeds of the British
taxpayer and the British people had
not been ignored by the government.”
Referring to what he called "poor
social developments’ after the war,
Schumacher said “it would be a good
deed if the government would decide
to enact a new law for disability and
other pensions for the benefit of
disabled ex-servicemen and war wi-
dows since the old law was abol-
ished by the Allied Occupation
Powers in 1945 in their endeavors to

eliminate militarism in Germany.”
“One never could be anti-Nazi if
at the same time one did not com-
memorate gratefully the victims of
fascism .. . Too little has been said
about the Jews and the terrible
tragedy of the Jews under the third
Reich. It is not only the duty of any
(Continued on page 38)

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 24 ---
By MARJORIE A. YAHRAES

HE MAKING of textiles and cloth-

ing is often termed the largest
industry in the world, Whether it be
shoe laces, Easter bonnets, coolie
coats or silk draperies, the industry
supplies man and his dwellings with
a myriad of textiles fashioned to suit
his individual or national tastes in
a wide variety of colors, patterns and
finishes,

In Germany, textile making still
retains certain traits which this
ancient craft first possessed: a local
quality designed to fill community
needs. Thousands of years ago during
the lake dwelling period of history
primitive man spun and wove cloth
to fill family and immediate commu-
nity requirements. And even yet, a
number of individual Germans and
many small textile plants are scattered
throughout the villages, making cloth
from locally-produced wool, drawing
upon village labor and filling com-
munity needs.

More than 100 years ago, Germany
developed an addition to the local
craft: large centers of textile pro-
duction to enter the world export
field. Before World War II these
plants also were scattered around
Germany. Some 373,000 men and
women worked in more than 9,300
such factories,

Today, West German textile and
clothing firms are scrambling to right
themselves in a situation considerably
more difficult than that facing many
other German industries. The problem
dates back to the Hitler years when

NOVEMBER 1949

Information Bulletin Staff Writer

the industry, except that producing
synthetics, was allowed very low
priorities in replacing its machinery
with new, modern equipment. A
high percentage of factories now find
themselves obliged to operate with
inefficient, worn-out machines,

In addition, most of Germany's
textile raw materials must be im-
ported. Cotton, wool, linen, silk and
those products needed in synthetics
production — except for small quan-
tities domestically produced — all
must be brought from other lands.
This meant that during the war,
stocks kept dwindling and by the

postwar period little was left. Nor
could they be replenished from
domestic sources in 1945/46, There

was no way to obtain raw materials
until transport channels again were
functioning,

OST DAMAGING to the rehabili-
tation of the industry was the
division of the country into zones,
East and West had far from identical-
type production and when trade be-

This is the third in a series of
articles by Mrs. Yahraes, stafi
writer, describing the postwar
development of western German
industries. In the above photo-
graphs by Holtmann of Stuttgart
women are working at the
Obernburg rayon factory in Ba-
varia, one of the most modern
synthetics plants in west Ger-
many.

21

tween the two virtually ceased, both
regions suffered, The unbalanced con-
dition in Western Germany stems from
a shortage of spinning equipment, a
surplus of weaving machinery, a sur-
plus of wool-combing capacity, a short-
age of machinery makers and practi-
cally no production of women’s stock-
ings.

The Chemnitz area, directly south
of Berlin in the Soviet Zone, long
was one of the main textile centers
of Germany. There some of the best
German textile machinists were
located. Great centers were also in
the eastern areas around Breslau,
Stettin and Koenigsberg. Approxi-
mately 90 percent of the stocking,
50 percent of the underclothing and
55 percent of the knitting mills were
located in what in postwar Germany
is the Soviet Zone. Berlin, formerly
the center for approximately 90 per-
cent of all women's outer clothing,

has fallen in importance due to
unique problems there.
The cotton trade, however, is

located principally in western Ger-
many with the great ports of Bremen
and Hamburg funneling imports to
north Bavaria, Augsburg, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, the Rhineland and West-
phalia and plants along the Belgian
and Dutch borders, Wool and worsted
weaving factories of Aachen, Munich
and the Rhineland are world famous,
although the Soviet Zone encompasses
more than 50 percent of Germany's
worsted spinning mills and 60 percent
of the woolen cloth weaving mills.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
At the end of 1948, there were in
the Bizonal area approximately
150,000 persons employed in about
3,000 factories, not including a small
number of hosiery and knitting mills,

IHE STORY of the West German

textile industry since the war has
been a series of chapters on the
struggle to reconstruct damaged
spinning mills, to find skilled opera-
tors and to bring in acutely-needed
raw materials,

Besides plant damage, much of the
textile machinery was of foreign
origin and long since obsolete. It was
like trying to find parts for a Model-
T Ford in factories where only sleek,
streamlined automobiles now are
made. The only solution was to
disassemble some of the machines to
form a spare-parts pool. Other kinds
of shortages developed: limited coal
and power; lack of factory supplies,
including belting, leather parts for
looms, special woods for shuttles and
bobbins, oils, starches, dyes and paper
spinning tubes.

Mill managers, casting about for
ways to bring their “factories back
into operating condition, practiced
what is known as “compensation
trading." Mill supplies, building
materials, transportation and even
coal were secured in exchange for
stocks of cloth and yarn, Factory
employees often were induced to
work regularly only by promises of
cloth and yarn allotments.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Rayon thread being spun (left) and workers buying materials at reduced rates

at Obernburg company store (right).

ORKERS IN THOSE early days

were difficult to find, Scattered
by the war they were hard to bring
together again and even when
located poor nutrition and home and
personal problems cut into their effi-
ciency. New workers also slowed
production, for it takes one to two
years’ training to produce a good
textile operative.

As for raw materials, most stock-
rooms were bare. The cheapest types
of synthetics were being used, looked
bad when made into clothing and
wore even worse,

The first step in digging out of
the problem was to make use of
stocks on hand, Through STEG (Ger-
man public corporation for the
collection and distribution of usable
war material) factories obtained
stocks of army goods which could be
made into clothing. Allied Army
surplus clothing also was made avail-
able through STEG for remaking and
dyeing. As direct aid to refugees and
other people in serious need, relief
organizations distributed vast quan-
tities of clothing.

For about a year the textile indus-
try confined itself to making use of
such supplies and turning its dwind-
ling raw materials into clothing and
equipment for hospitals, industrial,
railroad, Ruhr and other essential
workers. Until June 1948, very little
of what was produced went to the

22

(Photos by B, Holtmann)

civil population, Except for sewing
thread and mending yarns, the aver-
age German had to obtain a clothing
“proof of need" certificate — and
then begin a search from store to
store which often was vain.

'HINGS BEGAN to look more

hopeful, however, in 1946 when
a trickle of raw materials began
coming in. In the spring 10,000 tons
arrived. Then, OMGUS made an
agreement with the Commodity Credit
Corporation by which the US Com-
mercial Corporation would: furnish
217,000 bales of cotton, Military Gov-
ernment to pay the money back to
CCC in an agreed-upon period of
time by selling abroad 60 percent of
it in the form of cloth. The remaining
40 percent was to be used for
domestic consumption. During this
same period, the British Military Gov-
ernment imported 17,000 tons of wool
and 15,000 tons of cotton besides jute
and hemp. Upon these raw materials
and the domestic production of syn-
thetics, plus small quantities of cotton
and wool sent into Germany by
foreign firms for processing and re-
export, the textile and clothing indus-
try managed to keep going until the
beginning of 1948.

The year of 1948 turned over a new
leaf for the textile industry. Cotton,
wool, jute and hemp bought with
JEIA funds started to flow into
western Germany in _ increasing

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 26 ---
volume, Currency reform gave factory
owners the stability needed to plan
production and train labor for the
future. “Compensation trading” ended
and production moved toward an
ever more normal basis. Imports in
metric tons for these first three post-
war years were:
Metric Tons

1946 1947 1948
Cotton 37,534 33,500 85,000
Wool 15,100 1,750 23,000
Jute 12,465 5,850 18,000

Imports of raw materials in 1949/50
are expected to increase about 56 per-
cent over 1948/1949,

S THESE MORE immediate diffi-

culties began to clear, another
basic problem clamor-
ed for solution: the
balancing of the indus-
try by establishing
whole new sections
lost to the East Zone.
The worst bottleneck
was the shortage of
spinning mills in
western Germany to
supply yarn for the
weaving looms, Work-
ing at top capacity,
West German spinning
mills in 1948 process-
ed only 300,000 tons
of raw materials,
which meant that
looms in the Rhine-
land textile centers
could operate at only

40 percent of capacity. Production
at this rate would not meet the
requirements of the clothing industry
and retail textile trade. And, with
yarns at such a high premium, the
spinning mills sometimes have been
inclined to take advantage of the
sellers’ market by upping prices or
producing inferior yarns.

The distribution of stocking factories
in Germany is not particularly
pleasing to western German women.
Until recently, it was impossible to
obtain stockings other than those left
from the war years or those sold on
the black market. As there was very
little production in western Germany
before the war, it was necessary to

start from the ground up. Some good
textile machinists came from Saxony
and sketched plans for the making
of machines, Most of the few hosiery
machines in western Germany are old

models imported from the United
States, the United Kingdom and
Switzerland — a condition which

manufacturers find ironical for Ger-
many was One of the first countries
to produce hosiery machines,

south
con-

Within the past year, a
German engineering works

23

Spinning (upper right), carding (center) and weaving
(lower left) at a textile plant in Augsburg. :
(Photos by Byers, OMGUS PIO)

structed a cotton
machine for making
stockings, In Bavaria,
Sudeten German
firms built the first
factories for making
knitted stockings, A
small plant in Stutt-
gart also is produc-
ing. The small trick-
les of hosiery now
made are of rayon
or cotton.

One of the better
known brands, pro-
duced in Wuerttem-
berg, is packaged in
cellophane like those
in the United States,
and bears a card
inside: “The cotton
machines on which
these stockings are
manufactured arriv-
ed from America only a few months
ago. Purl-knitted and nylon rein-
forced at wear points, these stock-
ings meet the most exacting require-
ments of both appearance and
durability...”

HE HOSIERY MILLS in the French

Zone — approximately 300 — are
the best equipped in western Germany.
Their handicap has been a severe
shortage of raw materials, a condition
which is expected to improve due to
Marshall Plan imports,

oie BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
There are certain inefficiencies in
West Germany's textile industry
which lead experts to predict that
Germany will not offer serious com-
petition in the world market for a
long time to come. One official points
out that the industry's personnel is
top heavy — too many executives in
proportion to the number of operators
make labor costs abnormally high.

Even more important are the. in-
efficiencies in plant organization, The
“horizontal system is most com-
monly used, Spinning is done in one
factory, weaving in another, and the
separate finishing processes carried
out in yet others, causing consider-
able waste in time and high trans-
portation costs. In general, weaving
plants have no great battery of looms
such as found in the US or England.
There are many different kinds of
looms even within one plant and the
average weaver tends only ap-
proximately four looms,

In finishing work the story is the
same. In Germany the quantity
produced on each printing machine
is approximately one-fourth that in
the United States, Plant manufacturers,
however, cling to old ways and are
reluctant to run their looms on the
same textile, thus reducing the
number of operators needed.

These methods
shown up
break

inefficient have

in Germany's efforts to
into the world market.

Her

prices necessarily have been too high.
Taking the German price as 100
(prior to the recent currency de-
valuation) for a basic cloth, we find
Belgium can produce the same material
for 75, Switzerland for 73, the United
States for 67 and Japan for 65, Until
Germany cuts her production costs
she will find it impossible to compete
on a large scale in the world market.

ERMANY HAS specialities, how-

ever, in which she has retrieved
some of her old prewar customers
without great difficulty. German tech-
nicians have learned the skill of pro-
ducing very fine finishes on low-
grade fabrics; they have perfected the
production of fine printed materials.
Old customers on the West Coast of
Africa again have asked for regular
supplies of cotton goods, Turkey, the
Middle East and certain Far Eastern
markets again have turned to Germany
for regular quantities of low-grade
sheeting.

Britain also takes a good share of
the exports. For many years the
German and British textile trades
have been allied: finely-spun Lanca-
shire yarns were bought in Germany
to be turned into fine knitwear and

glove fabrics, while Britain took
Germany's coarse and medium
fabrics,

Most manufacturers, however, can't
get too excited about how export
trade is progressing. Domestic demand
for goods is so insistent they fail to
look ahead to the time when local
markets will be saturated and foreign
customers will have found regular
suppliers elsewhere. Today German
civilian needs still are paramount.

Only in June 1948 was it possible for
the average person to begin buying
regular quantities of clothing. A
ration of 20 points issued at that time
was equal to about one pound per

capita, with a double allotment for
refugees. Later,a further 50 points per

capita were issued. Clothing rationing >
was abolished altogether on May 17,

1949,

ITH LOCAL demand so great,

plant owners have fixed their
eyes upon the more immediate market,
Often, in better grades of cloth, only
low standards of manufacture have
been reached and large deliveries
have been rejected by important
customers because of poor quality.
In other instances, late delivery has
caused contracts to be cancelled and
the goods deflected to domestic
markets, It is also true, however,
that foreign buyers sometimes have
cancelled contracts. These factors,
officials believe, are the main cause
for export difficulties in the textile
industry rather than the world value
of the Deutsche mark which often is
blamed for keeping foreign buyers
away, ,

Of all the many kinds of factories
involved in the clothing and textile
industry, synthetics plants are the
most modern and the best equipped.
This was the only branch of the
industry which was allowed an ap-
preciable number of new machines
and equipment during the middle and
late thirties, In 1939, Germany became

The Obernburg synthetics plant (extreme left
planned recreation and health care for its 3,500
pellees (below). Cooperating financially with
also have built attractive living quarters for w

(PE

--- Page 28 ---
KEY HICOG
PERSONNEL

Office of the High Commissioner

High, Commisstoner: John J. McCloy, Frankfurt 6100, Bonn 201, Berlin

Deputy High Commissioner: Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, Bonn 202,
Berlin 44655

Assistant High Commissioner: B, J. Buttonweiser, Frankfurt 6139

Special Assistant to the High Commissioner: Lt. Gen. H. A. Gerhardt,
Frankfurt 7255, Bonn 205/204

Executive Assistant: Robert M. Walsh, Frankfurt 7148

German Liaison Officer: Gert Whitman, Frankfurt

Office of Executive Secretary

Executive Secretary: James E. King, Jr., Frankfurt 8132
Deputy Executive Secretary: Theo E. Hall, Frankfurt 8132

Allied General Secretariat (US Element)

US Secretary: Joseph E. Slater, Frankfurt

Deputy US Secretary: John J. Golay, Frankfurt

Chief, Liaison & Interpreter Section: (vacancy)

Chief, Administrative Section: John Callendar, Frankfurt

Staff Secretary
Staff Secretary: Eric G. Gration, Frankfurt 8125

Field Division

Director: Col. Gordon E. Textor, Frankfurt
Assistant Director: Elden Cassoday, Frankfurt
Assistant Director: Robert T. Mister, Frankfurt

Office of Administration

Director: Glenn G. Wolfe, Frankfurt 6117/8298
Deputy Director: Albert G. Sims, Frankfurt 8426
Special Assistant: Robert M. Barnett, Frankfurt 8162
Special Assistant: Jack H. Lennon, Frankfurt 8297
Special Assistant: E. T. Wolfe, Frankfurt 8297

Budget & Finance Division

Chief: Fletcher D. Mitchell, Frankfurt 8781/8703
Deputy Chief: J. E, DeWilde, Frankfurt 8929

Chief, Budget Branch: Fred Hetherington, Frankfurt
Chief, Accounting Branch: Albert Tennant, Frankfurt
Acting Chief, Audit Branch: Glen Reinsel, Frankfurt
Chief, Payroll Section: James M. Hamlin, Frankfurt
Chief, Voucher Section: R. J. Comings, Frankfurt
Chief, Disbursements Branch: Walton Hart, Frankfurt
Chief, External Audit Branch: (vacancy)

Field Finance Officers:

Berlin: Joseph A. Angotti

Munich: (vacancy)

Frankfurt: Allen Chase

Stuttgart: Milton H. Eshleman

Bremen: C, W. Falkner

Communications Division

Chief: Edward J. Sheppard, Frankfurt 8462

Chief, Telegraph & Code Branch: Chase E. Laurendine, Frankfurt 8421
Chief, Message Center & Courler Branch: James Connaley, Frankfurt
Chief, Files & Records Branch: Charles R. Bakey, Frankfurt

Chief, Telephone Branch: John S. Meadows, Frankfurt 8772

Chief, General Services Office (Bad Nauheim): (vacancy)

Operating Facilities Division

Chief: William M. Kane, Frankfurt 8025

Assistant Chief: Ralph E. Brant, Frankfurt 8144

Chief, Procurement & Supply Branch: Donal Bernard, Frankfurt
Chief, Transportation Branch: Robert Amsbury, Frankfurt 8762
Chief, Space Management Branch: Dennis DeMartin, Frankfurt 6557
Chief, Library Branch: Henry Dunlap, Frankfurt

Chief, Visual Presentation Branch: Charles H. Shaw, Frankfurt 8142

Organization and Management Division

Chief: (vacancy)

Chief, Organization & Management Branch: Alfred Mittendorf, Frank-
furt 8478

Chief, Regulations & Procedures Branch: (vacancy)

NOVEMBER 1949

This list of the key personnel in the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany is a preliminary roster compiled by the
Placement Branch, Personnel Division, Office of Administration, and
the editorial staff of the Information Bulletin, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, in accordance with the previous
practice of the Information Bulletin in publishing periodically the
Personnel lists for informational purposes. This list, giving stations
and available telephone numbers, is incomplete. A full roster of
key HICOG personnel is scheduled for the January issue of this
magazine.

Personnel Division

Chief: David Wilken, Frankfurt 8191

Deputy Chief: (vacancy)

Chief, Regulations & Procedures Branch: Phyllis Elledge, Frankfurt
Chief, Classification & Wage Branch: Edar Rimestad, Frankfurt 8171
Chief, Placement Branch: E. F. Armstrong, Frankfurt 8136

Chief, Employee Service Branch: Chester Beaman, Frankfurt
Chief, Transactions Branch: Daniel Lenihan, Frankfurt 8479/8216

Reports & Statistics Division

Chief: John Miles, Frankfurt
Chief, Reports Branch: Hermann Habicht, Frankfurt
Chief, Statistical Standards Branch: (vacancy)

Security Division
Chief: Jad& B. Minor, Frankfurt

Office of Political Affairs

Director: James W. Riddleberger, Frankfurt 6135, Bonn 207
Deputy Director: Allan E. Lightner, Frankfurt

Civil Aviation Division

Chief: Thomas D. Johnson, Frankfurt

Airport Administrator (Municy/Riem): Charles D. Daily, Munich

Airport Administrator (Stuttgart/Echterdingen): John F, Clymer, Stuttgart

‘Airport Administrator (Bremen/Bremen): Frank B. Lane, Bremen

Airport Administrator (Nuremberg/Industriehafen): Eugene BE. Richards,
Nuremberg

Airport Administrator (Frankfurt/Rhine-Main): Richard L. Martin, Frank.
furt

Civil Attache: Milton Turner, Frankfurt

Displaced Persons Division
Chief: (vacancy)

Foreign Relations Division

Chief: Bernard Gufler, Frankfurt

Chief, German Foreign Affairs Branch: (vacancy)

Chief, CFM and Research Branch: Alexander Forest, Frankfurt
Legislative Review and Liaison Officer: Raymond Lisle
Narcotic Officer: Charles B. Dyer

Internal Political & Governmental Affairs Division

Chief: Kenneth Dayton, Frankfurt

Deputy Chief: Hector C. Prud‘homme

Chief, Political Affairs Branch: (vacancy)

Chief, Governmental Affairs Branch: (vacancy)

Associate Chief (Bonn): (vacancy)

Chief, Legislative Branch: Leslie A. Grant, Frankfurt

Chief, Police & Public Safety Branch: Jones L. McCraw, Frankfurt

Protocol & Governmental Representation Division

Chief of Protocol: W. W. Schott, Frankfurt 6190
Deputy Chief: Paul P. Roudakoff

Travel Control Division

Chief: Russell Benton, Frankfurt

Deputy Chief: Jean J. Chenard, Frankfurt

Chief, Berlin Branch: M. B. Lustgarden, Berlin

Chief, Bavaria Branch: J. J. Urman, Munich

Chief, Bremen Branch: W, J. Thimm, Bremen

Chief, Hesse Branch: Ross Stockley, Wiesbaden

Chief, Wuerttemberg-Baden Branch: Frank H. Cornelis, Stuttgart

Office of Public Affairs

Director: Ralph Nicholson, Frankfurt 8220

Deputy Director: (vacancy)

Chief, Executive Branch: (vacancy)

Chief, Program and Policy Branch: Alfred V. Boerner, Frankfurt 8559

Education & Cultural Relations Division

Chief: Alonzo G. Grace, Bad Nauheim 235

Deputy Chief: John Riedl

Chief, Community Activities Branch: Lawrence E. Norrie, Bad Nau-
heim 254

Chief, Education Branch: (vacancy)

Chief, Governmental Affairs Branch: H. P. Mettger, Bad Nauheim

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Chief, Information Center Branch: Patricia Van Delden, Bad Nauheim 493

Chief, Public Health & Welfare Branch: Col. Karl Lundeberg, Bad
Nauheim

Chief, Religious Affairs Branch: Arild C. Olsen, Bad Nauheim 253

Exchanges Division

Chief: Ralph A. Burns, Bad Nauheim 262

Deputy Chief: Sam H. Linch, Bad Nauheim

Chief, Personnel Exchange Branch: James Barnett

Chief, Materials & Exhibitions Exchange Branch; James R. Haarstad

Information Services Division

Chief: Thomas Headen, Bad Nauheim 157

Deputy Chief: W. J. Egan, Bad Nauheim

Chief, Editorial Projection Branch: Charles P. Arnot, Bad Nauheim

Chief, Motion Picture Branch: Carl Winston

Chief, Opinion Survey Branch: Leo P. Crespi, Bad Nauheim 503

Chief, Press & Publications Branch: (vacancy)

Deputy Chief: Franklin B. Steiner

Chief, Publishing Operations Branch: Raymond Stover, Munich

Chief, Radio Branch: Charles S, Lewis, Bad Nauheim 501/178

Public Relations Division

Chief: Arthur Settel, Frankfurt 8184
Deputy Chief: Jack Fleischer, Frankfurt

Office of Labor Affairs

Director: Harvey Brown, Frankfurt 8266
Deputy Director: (vacancy)

Labor Division

Chief; (vacancy)

Manpower Division

Chief: Earl Beckner, Frankfurt 8164

Office of Intelligence

Director: B. R. Shute, Frankfurt 8500

Deputy Director: Innis D, Harris, Frankfurt 8500
Reports & Analysis Division

Chief: Lawrence DeNeufville, Frankfurt

Strategic Division
Chief: (vacancy)

Office of the General Counsel

General Counsel: Chester McLain, Frankfurt 8362, Bonn 205
Assistant General Counsel: (vacancy)

Assistant General Counsel: (vacancy)

Administration of Justice Division

Chief: Mortimer Kollender, Frankfurt

Assistant Chief; Jonathan Rintels

Chief, HICOG Justice Branch: Leo F. Lightner, Frankfurt
Chief, German Justice Branch: H. W. Weigert, Frankfurt
Chief Attorney

Chief Altorney: W. B. McCauley

Decartelization & Deconcentration Division

Chief: (vacancy)

Chief, IG Farben Control Branch; M. M. Maupin, Frankfurt 8186
Chief, General Branch: R. E. Cotton, Frankfurt 8689

Legal Advice Division

Chief: Richard D. Kearney, Frankfurt 8938

Chief, General Law Branch: J. I. Karro, Frankfurt 8983

Chief, German Law Branch: E, H. Schwenk, Frankfurt 8924
Legislation Division

Chief: J. J. Barron, Frankfurt 8724

Assistant Chief: W. E. Menke, Frankfurt 8169

Chief, Federai Legislation Branch: J. von Elbe, Frankfurt

Chief, Laender (States) Branch: Gerhart Husserl, Frankfurt 8973
Chief, HICOG Legislation Branch: (vacancy)

Prisons Division

Chief: S. H. Souter, Jr.

Office of Economic Affairs

Director: N. H. Collison, Frankfurt 8571, Bonn 206
Deputy Director: (vacancy)
Combined Coal Control Group

US Chairman: W. J. German. Essen
Chairman and Deputy Chief, Production Branch: A. F. Marshall, Essen
US Member and Deputy Chairman, Finance Branch: J. S. Jones, Essen

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Combined Steel Control Group

US Chairman: Ronald Clark, Duesseldorf

Deputy Chairman and Chief, Production Branch: (vacancy)

Chief and Deputy Chairman, Reorganization Branch: Werner Naumann,
Duesseldorf

Office of Controller

Acting Controller: Robert D. Pittman, Frankfurt
Assistant Controller; Norman Olnick, Frankfurt

Finance Division

Chief, Sheppard Morgan, Frankfurt

Chief, Public Finance Branch: A. M. Hillhouse, Frankfurt
Chief, Investment Policy Branch: J. C. Jones

Chief, Currency & Credit Branch: Richard C. Leonard

Food & Agriculture Division

Chief: Gwynn Garnett, Frankfurt 8695

Chief, Agricultural Extension Branch: Conrad Hammar, Frankfurt 8225
Chief, Agricultural Production Branch: Sam Williams, Frankfurt 8026
Chief, Food Requirements Branch: Omar Pancoast, Frankfurt 8207

Industry Division

Chief: Lowell Weicher

Chief, Fuel and Power Branch: Paul Griffin

Chief, Production Branch: Harold Taylor

Chief, Transportation Branch: William Fagan

Chief, Communications Branch: E, H. Merrill

JEIA (liquidation)

Chief: M.S. Verner, Jr., Frankfurt 8442

Chief, Accounting & Collections Branch: William J. Baker, Frankfurt
Chief, Records Branch: Waldemar Thorson, Frankfurt 8606
Chief, Unaccepted Imports Branch: Bertrand R. Clarke, Frankfurt
Chief, Field Liquidation Branch: Gerald M. Strauss, Frankfurt
Chief, Claims Branch: Peter H. Smith, Frankfurt

Program Division

Chief: Karl F, Bode, Frankfurt 8744
Deputy Chief: Carl R. Mahder, Frankfurt 8671

Property Division

Chief: Frank J. Miller, Berlin 43750

Deputy Chief: William G. Daniels

Chief, Internal Restitution Branch: Werner Loewenthal
Chief, Reparations Restitutions Branch: Frederick Draper
Chief, External Assets Branch: Herbert Soorter

Reports Division 5

Acting Chief: Mark Edwards

Chief, Reports Branch and Assistant Chief of Division: A. J. Cefaratti
Chief, Statistics Branch: Charles K. Nichols, Frankfurt

Chief, Publications Branch: Robert W. Hewetson, Frankfurt

Trade & Payments Division
Chief: Henry C. Conrad

Military Security Board
(US Element)

US Commissioner: Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges, Berlin
Deputy US Commissioner: Col. E. F. Thomson, Berlin

Industrial Division
Chief: Francis L. Mayer, Berlin 86 45 60

Military Division

Chief: (Vacancy)

Chief, Prevention of Militaries Branch: Lt. Col. J. M. Bradley
Chief, Material and Technical Branch: (Vacancy)

Secretariat
Chief: Richard A. Steele

Scientific Research Division
Chief: Carl H. Nordstrom

Court of Appeals

Chief Judge: William Clark, Nuremberg
Judge: J. A. Sedillo

Judge: M. Robinson

Judge: C. Fulghum

Judge: T. H. Goodman

Judge: Justin Harding

Judge, ist Judicial District: R. L. Guthrie

Judge, 2nd Judicial District: J. A. Sabo, Berlin

Judge, 3rd Judicial District: Dewitt White, Marburg

Judge, 4th Judicial District: F. J. Cohn, Frankfurt

District Judge, 5th Judicial District: Dillon Hartridge, Heidelberg
Presiding Judge, 6th Judicial District: J. O. Duvall, Stuttgart
District Judge, 7th Judicial District: H. M. Lyon, Augsburg

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 30 ---
Presiding Judge, 8th Judicial District:Leo M. Goodman, Munich
District Judge, 9th Judicial District: C.A.Turmo, Regensburg
District Judge, 10th Judicial District: L. R. Garcia, Ansbach
District Judge, 11th Judicial District: Paul Madden, Wuerzburg

Land Commission Bavaria

Land Commissioner: Murray D. Van Waggoner, Munich
Deputy Land Commissioner: Clarence Bolds, Munich
Assistant to Deputy Land Commissioner: (Vacancy)

Administration Office

Administrative Officer: ‘Schubert E. Smith, Munich
Chief, Operating Facilities Branch: (Vacancy)
Chief, Reports Branch: Thomas Coad, Munich

Intelligence Division
Chief: Don Shea, Munich

Economic Affairs Division

Director: Paul S. Nevin, Munich

Acting Chief, Food & Agriculture Branch: William Dankers, Munich
Property Adviser: William Harrison, Munich

Finance Officer: Joseph Bartos, Munich

Labor Affairs Division

Labor Affairs Adviser: Frantz G. Loriaux, Munich
Assistant Adviser; Abe Kramer, Munich

Legal Affairs Division

Land General Counsel: Leonard J. Gans, Munich
Assistant Counsel: Eleanor G. Raynor, Munich

Political Affairs Division

Director: (Vacancy)
Deputy Director and Chief, Public Safety Branch: Ai. D. Sims, Munich
Chief, Political & Government Branch: John P. Bradford, Munich

Public Affairs Division

Chief: Charles Winning, Munich

Chief, Cultural Exchange Branch: Kenneth MacCormack, Munich

Chief, Education and Cultural Relations Branch: R. G. Dawes

ae Health Adviser, Public Health & Welfare Branch: Robert Hood,

tunich

Public Welfare Adviser, Public Health & Welfare Branch: William R.
Gosser, Munich

Chief, Information Services Branch: James Clark, Munich .

Chief, Public Relations Branch: Jack Caldwell, Munich

Field Operations Division

Director: Kenneth Van Buskirk, Munich
Deputy Director: William Moran, Munich
District No. 1

RO Munich: Robert MacWhorter

RO Munich: George Godfrey

RO Munich: Chester Wright

RO Rosenheim: William Keen

RO Traunstein: William Garlock

RO Garmisch: Fred Roessler

RO Toeiz: Franz Egger

RO Freising: Lee Emerich

RO Ingolstadt: Birger Berg

RO Berchtesgaden: Edward Schoening
RO Starnberg: John Midzor

RO Fuerstenfeldbruck: Thomas McAnnally
RO Weilheim: George Abel

RO Dachau: William Rubin

RO Pfaffenhofen: Fred Mahner

RO Erding: Russel Wickman

RO Aibling: Frances Schillig

RO Altoetting: Richard Van der Haar
RO Miesbach: Robert Scharmer

District No. 2

RO Regensburg: Sidney Siskind
RO Regensburg: Sidney White
RO Passau: John May

RO Straubing: John Lawrence

RO Cham: Vincent Hurst

RO Amberg: Joe Hackett

RO Landshut: Bertel Arnberg

RO Eggenfeld: Carl Hansen

RO Tirschenreuth: Frank Gates
RO Neustadt: John Raymond

RO Eschenbach: Thomas McMahon
RO Neumarkt: Eimer Marsh

RO Burglengenfeld: James Lipman
RO Waldmuenchen: Riley Gilley
RO Kehlheim: Evan Owen

RO Leotzting: Allen Willis

RO Regensburg: Eduard Garrison

NOVEMBER 1949

RO Deggendorf: John Greeley
RO Woifstein: H. P. Thomsen
RO Vilsbiburg: Harry Mullin
RO Vohenstraur: Carlson Parker
RO Rottenburg: George Stringer
RO Pfarrkirchen: Walter Sheets

District No. 3
RO Nuremberg: Harold Lund
RO Nuremberg: Levan Roberts
RO Bamberg: Nathan Preston
RO Bayreuth: Donald Root
RO Coburg: Frances Lindman
RO Hof: Alexander Warshall
RO Fuerth: Charles Emerick
RO Ansbach: Clarence Hulen
RO Erlangen: Noal Jacobs
RO Rehau: Sherman Ehrlich
RO Naila: Rudolph Mendl

: Lynn Keck
RO Kulmbach: Thomas Jadross
RO Pegnitz: William Bossemayer
RO Neustadt/Aich: Gerald Bartz
RO Gunzenhausen: Yale Ricamond
RO Rothenberg: Gerald Foley
RO Schwabach: Anthony Saga
RO Eichstaett: Dana Waterman

District No. 4

RO Wuerzburg: James Kelly

RO Wuerzburg: Jace Brooks

RO Schweinfurt: Robert Rigg
RO Aschaffenburg: Frank Rossborough
RO Melirichstadt: Ellis McKay
RO Neustadt: Daniel Miller

RO Hofheim: Raymond Fogg

RO Kissingen: Herman Frankel
RO Hassfurt: John W. Vonier
RO Karlstadt: John Phillips

RO Obernburg: Gilbert’ Stuenkel
RO Kitzingen: Holbrook Bradley
RO Lohr: Harold Kidder

District No. 5
RO Augsburg: William C. Rhyne
RO Augsburg: Herbert Hart

RO Kaufbeuren: Theodore Zadra
RO Kempten: Joseph Montgomery
RO Sonthofen: John Huston

RO Neuburg: James Johnson

RO Dillingen: William Pinney

RO Neu Ulm: Gordon Feehan

RO Illertissen: John Jonsen

RO Memmingen: Donald Angers
RO Fuessen: James Barker

RO Landsberg: Albert Frye

Land Commission Bremen

Land Commissioner, Capt. C. R. Jeffs (USN), Bremen
Deputy Land Commissioner & Executive Officer: Joseph L. Payette,
Bremen

Administrative Office
Administrative Officer: R. L. R, Marshall, Bremen

Economic Affairs Division

Chief, Food and Agriculture Branch: Marcel Renau, Bremen
Chief, Finance Branch: William H. Goebring, Bremen

Chief, Industry Branch: Osborne Tayler, Bremen

Chief, Maritima Section: L. R. Smith, Bremer

Intelligence Division
Chief: D. Harkins, Bremen

Labor Affairs Division
Chief: W. E. Northey, Bremen

Legal Affairs Division

Land General Counsel: R. W. Johnson, Bremen
Assistant Counsel: R. M. Donihi, Bremen

Political Affairs Division
Chief: C, P. Oakes, Bremen

Public Affairs Division

Chief: Duncan MacBryde, Bremen

Chief, Cultural Exchanges Branch: H. Y. Edwards, Bremen

Chief, Education & Cultural Relations Branch: James E. McDaniel, Bremen
Public Health & Welfare Adviser: John Wells, Bremen

Chief, Information Services Branch: Richard Akselrad, Bremen

Chief, Public Relations Branch: Howard Calkins, Bremen

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Field Operations Division

RO Bremerhaven: Edward Merone, Bremerhaven

Land Commission Hesse_ .-

Land Commissioner: James R. Newman, Wiesbaden
Deputy Land Commissioner: Francis E. Sheehan, Wiesbaden

Administration Office

Administrative Officer: (Vacancy), Wiesbaden

Reports & Statistics Officer: Robert A. Irving, Wiesbaden
Economic Affairs Division

Chief, Industry Branch: Stanley H. Sisson, Wiesbaden
Chief, Food & Agriculture Branch: James Hathcock, Wiesbaden
Chief, Finance Branch: Donald Spigler

Intelligence Division
Chief: R. H. Cunningham, Wiesbaden

Labor Division
Chief: Glenn Garrett, Wiesbaden

Legal Affairs Division

Land General Counsel: Ernst Ansbach, Wiesbaden
Assistant Counsel: Stanley H. Gaines, Wiesbaden

Political Affairs Division
Chief, Dale Noble, Wiesbaden

Public Affairs Division

Chief, E. K. Neumann, Wiesbaden
Chief, Cultural Exchange Branch: Joseph A. Horne, Wiesbaden

Chief, Education and Cultural Relations Branch: Leroy Vogel, Wiesbaden
Chief, Public Health & Welfare Branch: H. Benning, Wiesbaden

Chief, Information Services Branch: Arthur Reef, Wiesbaden

Chief, Public Relations Branch: H. A. Rhodes, Wiesbaden

Field Operations Division

Director: Samuel R, Combs, Wiesbaden
Deputy Director: David Rosendale, Wiesbaden

RO Frankfurt: Harold P. Radigan

RO Frankfurt: Emil Jallouk

RO Wiesbaden: Gerald C. Sola

RO Kassel: George E, Vadney

RO Darmstadt: Robert A. Goetcheus

RO Marburg: Charles S, Lloyd

RO Wetzlar: James F. Green

RO Giessen: Raymond O, Didlo

RO Fulda: Eugene L. Wayland

RO Hanau: Neely O. Turner

RO Friedberg and Usingen: Ernest -A. Knoblough
RO Offenbach: William R. Rulo

RO Fritzlar: John W. Jergenson

RO Gross Gerau: Thomas Mulvehill

RO Bergstrasse: Charles F. Blackman

RO Dieburg and Erbach: James F. Burns

RO Rheingau and Untertaunus: William T, Hoffman
RO Maintaunus: Edward H, Edwin

RO Limburg: John R. Harris

RO Gelnhausen and Schluechtern: Zeno S. Stangwilo
RO Buedingen: Elisha Greifer

RO Obertaunus: Gilbert Laskowski

RO Oberlahn and Dill: Robert B. Ruthman

RO Alsfeld and Lauterbach: Donald D. Muntz

RO Ziegenhain: Fritjof Jonassen

RO Hersfeld and Huenfeld: George P. Moore

RO Biedenkopf and Frankenberg: James F. Boyle
RO Waldeck and Wolfshagen: (Vacancy)

RO Witzenhausen: James A. Goodnight

RO Rothenburg and Melsungen: Franklin N. Grove
RO Eschwege: Porter E. Perry

RO Wiesbaden: John A. Guy

RO Kassel and Hofgeismar: Allan C, Wilson

RO Frankfurt: Walter V. Burrows

RO Hersfeld and Huenfeld: William Karstetter

Land Commission Wuerttemberg-Baden

Land Commissioner: Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, Stuttgart
Deputy Land Commissioner: H. M. Coverley, Stuttgart

Administration Office

Administrative Officer: H. B. Wolfe, Stuttgart
Reports & Statistics Officer: Allen Zane, Stuttgart
Economic Affairs Division

Chief, Finance Branch: John Van Stirum, Stuttgart
Chief, Food & Agriculture Branch: Paul 'E, Taggert, Stuttgart
Chief, Industry Branch: George L. Erion, Stuttgart

Intelligence Division
Chief: Robert N. Wiley, Stuttgart

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Labor Affairs Division
Chief: N.S. Friedman, Stuttgart

Legal Affairs Division
Land General Counsel: R. J. Jackson, Stuttgart

Political Affairs Division
Chief: C. B, Lewis, Stuttgart

Public Affairs Division

Chief: H. H. Russell, Stuttgart

Chief, Cultural Exchange Branch: John F. Mead, Stuttgart

Chief, Education & Cultural Relations Branch: John Steiner, Stuttgart

Chief, Public Health & Welfare Branch: Dr. William D. Radcliffe,
Stuttgart

Chief, Information Services Branch: Stuart L. Hannon, Stuttgart

Chief, Public Relations Branch: Michael Mahoney, Stuttgart

Field Operations Division

Director: Z. B. Garrett, Stuttgart

Deputy Director: Loren Goldman, Stuttgart
RO Stuttgart: M. L. Hoover

RO Stuttgart: A. D. Craig

RO Karlsruhe: Fentress Gardner

RO Karlsruhe: Robert E. Welch

Mannheim: Hugh Mair

john Zecca

RO Heidelberg: W. T. Neel

RO Heidelberg: William S. Fitzer

RO Ulm: John F. Capell

RO Heilbronn and Oehringen: J. W. Butler
RO Pforzheim: Raymond Lascoe

RO Ludwigsburg: T. E. Griswold

RO Esslingen: N. Semaschke, Jr.

RO Goeppingen: N. W. Barber

RO Waiblingen: C. H. Wright

RO Heidenheim: Milton S. Rosner

RO Schwaebisch Gmuend: T. E. R. Smith
RO Schwaebisch Hall and Crailsheim: C. M. Henderson
RO Mergentheim and Kuenzelsau: B. V. Bloom
RO Buchen and Tauber/Bischofsheim: Ralph L. Bowers
RO Bruchsal: D. H. Feick

RO Sinsheim: P. C. Nelson

RO Moosbach: Walter Dew, Jr.

RO Vaihingen: H. L. Detwiler

RO Leonberg: G. W. Bartels

RO Nuertingen: Ralph Lievan

RO Aalen: Earl T. Squire

RO Backnang: Edward A. Rossit

RO Boeblingen: H. D. Brockman

Berlin Element, HICOG

US Commander: Maj. Gen. Maxwell Taylor, Berlin
Deputy Commissioner: William T. Babcock, Berlin
Assistant Deputy Commissioner: A. W. Moran, Berlin

Secretariat
Administrative Officer: Evan A. Taylor, Berlin

Administration Office
Administrative Officer: J.B. Allison, Berlin

Economic Affairs Division

Chief, Finance Branch: J. P. Kilduff, Berlin

Chief, Food & Agriculture Branch: Leon Steck, Berlin
Chief, Industry Branch: David Hair, Berlin

Chief, Property Branch: Joseph McNulty, Berlin

Intelligence Division
Chief: H. E. Stearns, Berlin

Labor Affairs Division
Chief: (vacancy), Berlin

General Counsel

General Counsel: W. Pape, Berlin
Assistant General Counsel: Arthur A. Birnkrant, Berlin

Political Affairs Division

Chief: E. C. Wendelin, Berlin c

Chief, Public Safety & Travel Control Branch: Ray Ashworth, Berlin
Chief, Investigation Section: Carl Westrum, Berlin

Chief, Police Section and Deputy Branch Chief: Charles C, Bond, Berlin

Public Affairs Division

Chief, K. Downs, Berlin

Chief, Cultural Exchange Branch: Harry Franklin, Berlin |
Chief, Education & Cultural Relations Branch: John C. Thompson, Berlin
Public Health Adviser: Wilmer M. Froistad, Berlin

Chief, Information Services Branch: Glenn Parson, Berlin

Chief, Public Relations Branch: Frederick Shaw, Berlin

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 32 ---
the third largest producer of rayon
filament yarn; the second largest
producer of rayon staple fiber, and
her population used more rayon pro-
ducts than any other country. In
western Germany, synthetics plants
today are up to 80 percent of their
capacity with an output of approx-
imately 10,000 tons per month.
People quickly recognized the
qualities to be found in rayon.
Production spurted ahead ever since
; its discovery and many improvements
have been made in its quality. World
production in 1939 equalled that of
wool and was more than 20 times
that of silk,

NE OF THE LARGEST, most

modern rayon plants to be found
in western Germany is a factory at
Obernburg, on the Main river, The
plant began operation in 1924. It was
built in Obernburg because the Ba-
varian government recognized that
this northern section of Bavaria, with
the Spessart hills on one side and the
Odenwald on the other, was an
extremely poor region. Plots of land
were smal] and the earth was not
fertile, A large part of the male
population emigrated each generation
because opportunities for an improved
standard of living did not exist.

The rayon factory brought prosperity
to Obernburg, It drew workers from
the whole region and now boasts
better homes and a higher standard of
living. Since the war, the company
has made special efforts to improve

in northern Bavaria has a modern program of
mployees, more than one-third of whom are ex-
the Bavarian government the plant directors
rkers (extreme right).

tos by M. Goellner, Frankfurt, and Holtmann, Stuttgart)

conditions for the 1,400 expellees
among its 3,500 workers. Through a
program financed by the plant and
the Bavarian government a project
is underway which will give 179
families new homes. Other housing
developments built before the war
are kept in repair for plant employees.

The Obernburg plant turns out 30
tons of rayon yarn a day for textiles
and tires, only 10 tons less than
during the war. Although the demand
for tire yarn has slackened, that for
textile yarn has remained compara-
tively steady since 1946. Before the
war, a large part of its yarn went
into stockings whereas today only a
small portion goes into rayon stockings
produced in Wuerttemberg.

Built on the banks of the Main
tiver, the plant receives its raw
materials mostly by barge. About
7,000 tons of coal per month come
from the Ruhr region, wood pulp from
German, Swedish, Canadian and
Norwegian sources. Another raw
material commonly used in the making
of rayon, cotton linters — the short
fibers tightly attached to cotton seeds
—is imported from the United States
and South American countries. A
variety of chemicals also are needed.

HE OBERNBURG product goes to

looms throughout western Ger-
many. Approximately 35 percent of
the materials used in the German
textile industry are synthetics. In
other countries only 20 percent is
used, Usually German plants combine
from 25 to 30 percent staple fiber with
pure wool and spin them together
into yarn. Cotton is also mixed with
staple fiber while rayon and staple

fiber are blended for certain shirts
and coat linings,

There has developed, however, a
strong domestic resistance to syn-
thetics. During the Nazi regime
Germans had to buy synthetics as
the only textiles available, In the last
war years and early postwar months
poor synthetics were produced and
incorrectly mixed with wool and
cotton. At times they were not mixed
at all. Shoddy merchandise resulted
which did not wear well, shrank
alarmingly or changed color,

Tired of unreliable materials, Ger-
mans strongly resist synthetics,
although today they generally are
being made from good raw materials
and mixed in the proper proportions
with cotton and wool. Designers of
women's clothing find that although
German women before the war bought
about four dresses per year, they save
their money today and buy only one
to two dresses — and those must be in
as pure material as the woman can
afford. Designers report that today a
store can sell a pure-material dress
at around DM 150 quicker than a
partly-synthetic one for DM 40,

IGGEST STYLE CENTER for

western Germany is Krefeld, near
Duesseldorf, where collections are
shown each fall and spring. Duessel-
dorf is becoming the fashion center
for middle-priced collections, In the
latest Duesseldorf show in which ap-

--- Page 33 ---
proximately 200 designers took part, Berlin
models sold better than any others. German
women remember the days when all the country
turned to Berlin for leadership in designing.
Many Berlin firms maintain branches in Hamburg.

Couturiers of the western zones believe even
the seamstresses of Berlin are superior, Several
send material to Berlin to be made into dresses
which then go back to the West German designers.

Although the reputation continues, little else
remains of the once-powerful clothing industry
of Berlin. War wiped out most of the industry's
buildings and machines, Transfer of plants and
dismantling took their toll. In spite of these
handicaps and the problems involved in four-
power government, the industry maintained
home workers and processed orders from all
zones, keeping as many as 30,000 people
employed, Until the end of 1948 West Berlin
firms were able to obtain some textile raw
materials from the eastern zone by concluding
labor contracts. When these were cancelled
in November 1948 the factories were almost
entirely choked off from raw materials except
for smal! lots from the western zones,

In the eastern sector of Berlin large clothing
factories have been placed under trustee admin-
istration, some 23 of which have been amalgamat-
ed into an administrative company employing
more than 3,500 workers. Large quantities of its
output go into the making of uniforms for occu-
pation troops and reparation deliveries.

ITH THE ENDING of the blockade, West

Berlin plants have found that their con-
dition has grown steadily worse. The largest
clothing plant in West Berlin, for example,
finds that credits are not available with which
to buy raw materials, and until these raw mate-
tials are forthcoming the plant cannot get on its
feet again. The plant's assets still are “frozen”
in an East sector bank, Several machines have
been sold to pay employees. In 1947 the plant
had 270 employees, today 80.

In their current desperate situation, plant
managers estimate that if credits are not made
available by the year's end the industry will go
bankrupt and workers will leave the wesiern
sectors to find employment in the east sector.
An estimated DM 20,000,000 ($4,760,000) is needed
to give Berlin a chance to commence working
again. Then raw materials could be bought and
Berlin could integrate its production with the
needs of Western Germany.

Integration is the goal sought by the entire
textile industry of Western Germany. And toward
it much progress is being made which eventually
should lead to a balanced supply of products to
fill both home and foreign demands. +END

Sorting (upper), weaving (center) and spinning
(lower) wool in Bremen. (Photos by Byers)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 34 ---
Special Services

— — Recreation and Entertainment for Occupation Forces

N OFFICIAL of European Com-

mand Special Services recently
stated: ‘Personnel serving in the
European Command today have for
their use and pleasure entertainment
and recreational facilities that would
strain the pocketbook of a wealthy
civilian,"

EUCOM Special Services, for in-
stance, offers travel tours, rest centers,
libraries, post exchanges, motion
picture installations, traveling floor
shows, athletic programs, service clubs,
handicraft and manual arts workshops
all for leisure-time use by occupation
personnel,

Other types of services are provided
by the corps of Chaplains, the Ameri-
can Red Cross and the Legal Assist-
ance Office, Troop Information and
Education Division sponsors the Stars
and Stripes and the American Forces
Network, and also provides facilities
for those wishing to continue their
education,

UCOM SPECIAL Services has for
its mission the maintaining of the
morale and welfare of US Forces in
Germany as well as in Austria,

France and England through the pro-
vision of off-duty recreational and
entertainment facilities,

American celebrities brought to EUCOM by Special Services in the last four years include, left, Miss Marjorie

It is responsible for the planning
and operation of athletics, moving
picture programs, libraries, floor shows,
service clubs, tours, rest areas, arts
and crafts shops, bowling alleys and
poo! tables.

It is responsible for the control and
accounting of funds, and the procure-
ment, storage, salvage and distribution
of supplies and equipment.

It is also responsible for the super-
vision and control of post exchanges,
including snack bars.

Funds for administration of the
program come from two sources. A
smal] part comes from Congressional
appropriations, but the great bulk of
operating capital is derived from
contributions made by the Central
Welfare Fund. In the quarter ending
Sept. 30, 1948, for example, Special
Services received $66,825 in appro-
priated funds and $767,868 in non-
appropriated funds from the Central
Welfare Fund.

This Central Welfare Fund is the
pool, established and administered in
the EUCOM, which receives any
profits made from any service offered
to occupation personnel. Post exchan-
ges, liquor stores and motion pictures
provide most of the profits.

HE AVERAGE AMERICAN is

certainly one of the most sports-
minded individuals alive, Recognizing
this, Special Services has created an
athletic program designed to fit the
needs of everyone, Whether we are
ping-pong players or pile-driving
fullbacks there is a place for us in
the program.

Competition in seven major sports
is organized throughout the command:
track and field, bowling, boxing, soft-
ball, baseball, basketball and football.
In minor sports, such as golf, swim-
ming and tennis there is very active
participation. In addition, bowling
alleys, pool and billiard tables and
ping-pong equipment are furnished
for enthusiasts in these activities.

In boxing, an 18-man EUCOM
boxing team evidenced the high
caliber of athletics in the European
Command by going to Chicago this
year and winning the all Army-Air
Force welterweight (147 !b.) champion-
ship.

The WAC, too, is included in the
comprehensive program. Five com-
mand-wide championships were staged
in softball, golf, badminton, horseshoes
and tennis.

Nine-man touch football has been
(Continued on next page)

Lawrence, world-famous dramatic soprano, pictured here at Wiesbaden in 1948. Right, “Arsenic and Old Lace,’ with

all-GI and hostess cast, presented at Munich in January 1949 with costumes furnished by ESS.

NOVEMBER 1949

27

{All photos by US Army)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
added to the agenda, and there is no
conceivable form of exercise for which
equipment will not be furnished if
enough interest is shown to warrant
the expenditure of money, This goes
for fencing, badminton, backgammon
or even less common forms of rec-
reation.

The whole program operates at a
consistently high level, Former athletic
stars from West Point and many other
American colleges are assigned as
coaches and directors, and competent
officials are appointed to handle the
various games and matches. The
equipment is top-grade.

VERYBODY GOES to the movies,

That is evidenced by attendance
figures, From June 1941 to June 1949
attendance figures totaled about
11,000,000 at 35-mm and 16-mm
theaters,

The EUCOM Motion Picture Serv-
ice is responsible for the procurement
and distribution of all films, and the
procurement, installation and mainte-
nance of 35-mm sound and projection
equipment, It operates 108 35-mm
theaters, 147 16-mm theaters and
distributes about 208 titles a year.

For those who find pleasure in
roaming in bookland and wish to
keep up with the latest fiction and
non-fiction, Special Services again can
supply the needs.

For the first six months of 1949 a
total of 1,118,709 books was circulated

“Archie of Duffy's Tavern,” otherwise

Ed Gardner, radio comedian, at
AFN's Hochst studios in Sept. 1948.

through the Special Services Library
System, Seventy-seven trained librar-
ians from the United States, assisted
by qualified German personnel,
operate 197 libraries, six bookmobiles
and 19 library depots. The number of
books available for withdrawal by
personne] is 3,305,178,

HERE ARE TWO types of libraries

in the EUCOM. The first is a
small one usually found in the
Service Clubs, and managed, in most
cases, by a German civilian. The
second is found in large cities like
Berlin or Frankfurt. These are not
unlike the ones you know back home.
They are housed in separate buildings,
with lounges, reading rooms and

orderly book shelves.

In the field of athletics Special Services is tireless in its efforts to maintain

Each library has a nucleus of cloth-
bound books, both fiction and non-
fiction, and new book kits are sent
out regularly to keep the libraries up
to date. Book club selections are
prominent in the bundles of new
books dispatched. New books are
being ordered continuously from the
United States. The libraries are con-
stantly developing and _ increasing
their stock of reading material,

With their cheerful, friendly atmos-
phere the familiar EUCOM Service
Clubs have created very much of a
“home away from home" for the
countless thousands who have visited
them and made use of their facilities.

PERATED BY the Recreational
Branch of EUCOM Special Serv-
ices, there are 98 Service Clubs,
staffed by 352 Army recreational
directors. Of these clubs, 88 are
located in Germany, five in Austria,
three in France and one in Belgium.
Some of them, like the palatial
Palmgarden Club at Frankfurt, are
elaborate affairs; others are more
modest. But in all of them can be
found a cheerful place to spend a few
pleasant hours, whether dancing,
reading, writing or playing games.
The clubs present floor shows and
dances, stage amateur theatricals, run
trips to points of local, historical or
scenic interest, operate coke and
coffee bars, and dozens of other
things asked for by the personnel

the morale and welfare of EUCOM forces. Its year-round planning and
programming cover virtually all fields of athletic endeavor. Left, an exciting
moment ia a Berlin basketball game. Right, initial turnout for the Constabu-
lary’s football team of 1947, showing seven of its husky 1946 regulars.

28

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 36 ---
they are set up to serve. American,
Allied or German guests can be taken
into the clubs.

Of all the facilities operated by
Special Services, the European Ex-
change System is undoubtedly the
largest and most widely used. Catering
to American and Allied personnel and
their families in EUCOM, EES has to
stods its shelves with all manner of
goods,

N MANY WAYS its catalogues

resemble those of a US department
store. It sells food,* drink, clothing,
cigarettes, candy, cosmetics and toilet
articles, jewelry, watches, cameras,
binoculars, automobiles, tires, gasoline.
In addition, EES operates photograph
studios, photo finishing plants, barber
and beauty shops, dry cleaning
establishments, snack bars, breweries,
fruit and vegetable stands, dressmaking
and tailoring shops, bakeries, ice
cream plants, laundries and shoe
repair shops.

EES is operated under the chief of
Special Services, as the European
branch of the Army Exchange Service,
and any profits derived from its
operation are turned over to the
Central Welfare Fund, This fund is
used to provide recreation and enter-
tainment for occupation personnel.

Its organization differs from stateside
PX's only in that more civilians are

% Basic foods are supplied to dependent
families by the QM Sales Commissaries.

Boxing remains outstandingly popular among occupation personnel. At left,

The inimitable Martha Raye at the
6th TT Special Services Club in
Mannheim during her busy 1948 tour.

employed, This was necessitated by
the scarcity of trained service per-
sonnel, and the fact that in a small
occupation force all servicemen and
women are needed to perform tasks
directly bearing on the occupation.
At present, there are 166 PX's in
Germany, Austria, France and Belgium.
A recent survey has disclosed that
the price of PX merchandise is, in the
main, lower than that charged by US
retailers for similar goods.
HE ENTERTAINMENT BRANCH
books the type of professional
vaudeville troupes which usually
appears in Services Clubs and con-
sisting of a master of ceremonies,
singer, comedian, dancer or dance

team, and juggler or magician, Such

winners in February 1949 tournament between Frankfurt and Heidelberg
military posts receiving trophies at Frankfurt from Lt, Col. R. E, Heydahl,
now chief of ESS club section. Right, EUCOM's 1947 tennis singles champion,
Lt. Frank Mehner, handed prize by Brig. Gen. Thomas Bresnahan, then BPE’s CG.

NOVEMBER 1949

29

troupes have given thousands of
performances throughout EUCOM
since their inception in 1947,

Until November 1948, Special Serv-
ices provided German shows and
until January 1949 Allied shows to
entertain troops. However, in line
with the American policy of restoring
the German economy wherever
possible, this service has been turned
over to German, American and Allied
agencies, German and Allied enter-
tainers and artists now are procured,
at the military post level, through
booking agents who must be cleared
through US Military Government and
Headquarters Special Services,

Stars of stage, screen and radio
who, throughout the war, gave so
generously of their time and talents
have not forgotten the Occupation
Forces, During 1948, the Celebrities
Service Section procured an array of
talent including Jack Benny, Larry
Adler, Phil Harris, Mary Livingstone,
Alice Faye, Frank Remley, Martha
Raye, Wallace Beery, Ed Gardner
(Archie of Duffy's Tavern), Danny
Kaye, Lana Turner, Tony Martin, the
Merry Macs and the Meddiebempsters,
celebrated male chorus from Bowdoin
College, as well as bowling champs
Buddy Bomar and Frank Bencovic.

So far this year Chico Marx has
toured the zone; Brigadoon (first

scripted musical show since the close
(Continued on next page)

--- Page 37 ---
of overseas camp shops) has concluded
an extensive tour of the zone.
AKING USE of the tours service
operated by the Recreation
Branch of EUCOM Special Service,
occupation personnel are able to visit
10 different countries. In comfort and
at reasonable rates, they can travel
in France, Italy, Holland, Luxembourg,
Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Switzer-
Jand, Austria and the United Kingdom.

Typical of the large variety of tours
offered by Special Services is the
eight-day journey to Switzerland. For
$60 one can visit Basel, St. Moritz,
Lugano and Lucerne, Or one can
spend seven days in Paris for $31.75.

Special Services also operated the
Karlsruhe Leave Center (formerly the
Swiss Leave Center) charged with the
booking and distribution of publicity
for the tours, Up to the first five
months of this year, 154,528 persons
from EUCOM had taken advantage
of the SS tours and recreational
areas. In March alone, 34,902 EUCOM
personnel visited rest centers,

PECIAL SERVICES maintains three

rest centers. The serviceman
with a three-day pass or a week's
leave can find relaxation or strenuous
activity depending on how he likes
to spend his vacation.

There’s a rest center at Berchtes-
gaden, once Hitler's Bavarian retreat.
There’s another at Garmisch where
the serviceman can swim, fish, play
golf, climb mountains or, in winter,

For those not so energetically inclined in off-duty hours ESS provides —

ski, skate, sleigh or toboggan. The
third, Chiemsee, like Berchtesgaden,
is near the Austrian border.

EUCOM Special Services’ Enter-
tainment Section provides apportunity
for participation in musical activities
by any member of the Occupation
Forces who so desires, It furnishes
record libraries (both classical and
popular), musical instruments, musical
supplies (reeds, strings, etc.) and hit
kits,

At the present time there are 11,687

musical instruments worth $228,800,

in EUCOM. Special Service hostesses
are kept informed of developments
and any group interested in any phase
of the music program is urged to
consult one of the hostesses.

In April of this year 513 musicians
graduated from the 7701st Band
Training School. Graduates of this
schoo] serve throughout the zones of
Germany and Austria. This is one
more item in the list of Special
Services activities, Students are select-
ed by Army band leaders of organi-
zations and posts. Volunteers may
write direct to the office of the chief
of Special Services. In addition to the
ordinary course, there are advance
courses for soldier musicians who
have served two or more months
with an Army band.

PECIAL SERVICES’ civilian actress
technicians are prepared to give
advice and assistance to those

interested in play production. If one

o

in addition to movies, libraries, tours, arts and crafts shops and pool tables —
wee golf courses like that at Garmisch, in the beautiful Bavarian Alps.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

Left to right, Charlie McCarthy and
Edgar Bergen receiving scrolls from
Col. H. P. Perrine expressing Heidel-
berg Military Post's appreciation of

their highly successful 1948 visit.
wants to stage a show or form a
little theater group, the Theatrical
Activities Section is prepared to
provide professional supervision and
advice in the recruitment of talent,
writing, rehearsing, staging, theatrical
makeup, prop devices, techniques and
presentation of production.

For those feel the urge to carve,
mold, paint, draw or make something
with their hands, Special Services has
set up a total of 63 craft shops and
75 photo labs in the command, These
shops furnish supplies and instruction
in photography, drawing and painting,
clay modeling, silk screen and block
printing, wood work, metal work and
leather work. During June 1949, 31,412
persons worked on craft projects and
27,302 EUCOM personnel used the
photo installations.

There is also the EUCOM photo
contest. Reprints of the prize-winning
photographs are exhibited in service
clubs in the US Zone.

The many-phased program of Special
Services serves no other purpose than
to offer recreation and entertainment.
Profits from the sale of EES merchan-
dise and other services for which a
fee is charged, go into the Central
Welfare Fund, then are reinvested in
servicemen welfare projects. -+-END

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 38 ---
Personnel Notes

OLCB Official Fatally Injured

Albert C.Schweizer, director of
Political Affairs Division, Office of the
Land Commissioner for Bavaria, died
Oct. 10 in Munich as a result of head
injuries suffered in an automobile ac-
cident two days earlier.

Returning to Munich from Garmisch,
Mr. Schweizer was thrown from his
automobile when it swerved on a foggy
stretch of road near Weilheim and hit
an oncoming truck, He never regained
consciousness,

The political affairs director was to
have left for the United States on
leave late Oct, 8, prior to assuming
his new duties as HICOG represen-
tative with the German Federal Gov-
ernment at Bonn.

Mr. Schweizer had been in Europe
since 1944, He served as a major in
the United States Army overseas and
was decorated with the Bronze Star.
He became the first civil administra-
tion officer of Cologne after its cap-
ture. While there, the civil adminis-
tration team wlich he headed estab-
lished Dr. Konrad Adenauer, now
chancellor for the German government
at Bonm, as Cologne's first postwar
mayor.

In late 1945 Mr. Schweizer went to
Munich as chief of Civil Administra-
tion Branch, The following year he
became director of Civil Administra-
tion Division, OMG Bavaria, in which
capacity he served until his death.

Always a strong believer in the
rights of the people, Mr. Schweizer
continually encouraged Bavaria's citi-
zens to take an active interest in their
government. He was also a strong
advocate of careful planning in the
reconstruction of Bavaria, both from
a democratic as well as material point
of view. (See his article “Public Opin-
ion, Freedom of Thought in Bavaria”
in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 155,
Feb. 22, 1949.)

Before coming to Germany, Mr.
Schweizer was dean of the College of
Architecture and Allied Arts at New
York University. He also served as
planning consultant to the National
Resources Planning Board and to the

NOVEMBER 1949

Albert C. Schweizer

National Civil Aeronautics Administra-
tion.

Mr. Schweizer is survived by his
widow and two daughters, living at
the family residence in New York City.

* * *
Dr. Litchfield Departs

Dr, Edward H. Litchfield, since 1947
director of the OMGUS Civil Adminis-
tration Division, left Oct. 4 for the
United States after nearly five years
with Military Government. He was
accompanied by his family,

Dr. Litchfield, who joined Military
Government in 1945, served as a
delegate to the 1947 Council of For-
eign Ministers meetings in Moscow
and London, In 1948 he was a delegate
to the tripartite governmental con-
ferences held in London, out of which
emerged basic agreements on the Ger-
man government.

He came to Military Government
after 10 years in the field of govern-
ment in the United States. A native
of Detroit, he has been on the faculties
of the University of Michigan and
Brown University.

During the period of Military
Government, Dr, Litchfield’s division
was responsible for development and
instrumentation of United States policy
in Germany in the broad field of
governmental affairs.

31

Reviewing his experience in Ger-
many before his departure, Dr, Litch-
field balanced progress made toward
occupational goals against problems
remaining.

Four years of occupation, he said,
have built in western Germany “the
physical machinery and equipment of
democracy,” while the German people
are still learning the day-by-day
application of democratic principles.

His own single, greatest disappoint-
ment in working with Germans, Dr.
Litchfield said, has been that ‘they
are frequently reluctant to look in-
ward and to blame their present
misfortune not on foreign relations
but on their own stratified and still
partly feudal community relation-
ships.”

Traditional German social and polit-
ical life, he said, starting with the
family and extending upward to the
highest government level, “has tended
to minimize the role which freely-
developed individuals could play in
German life and in a peaceful Europe."

On the other hand, he said, Ger-
mans since 1945, if they have not
completely mastered the concepts of
democracy, have proved new ap-
preciation of political freedom,

“My greatest single satisfaction in
this regard,” Dr. Litchfield said, “is
that the German people have been
willing to see their homeland tempo-
rarily divided rather than to submit:
again to the tyranny of dictatorship,
from which they so recently emerged.”

* * *

Mrs, McCloy Heads Committee

Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the
US High Commissioner for Germany,
has accepted the post of honorary
chairman of the American Advisory
Committee of the German chapter of
the “World Friendship Among Child-
ren” organization (Jugendaufbauwerk),

The appointment was accepted by
Mrs. McCloy following an all-day
meeting, Sept. 28, in Bad Nauheim of
delegates of this organization from all
zones of western Germany.

It was also decided at the meeting
that the children of the 14 German
cities that are members of the German
chapter will join with the children of
the other 21 member nations for the
first time since the close of the war
in international Christmas festivities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
German Editorials

HE SOVIETS’ protest against the

establishment of the German
Federal Republic was correctly inter-
preted by the German press as a
prelude to their setting up of -a
splinter East German state and was
deplored as a development which
would only deepen Germany's cleavage
and make the East Zone a “foreign
country” from a political as well as
a currency standpoint.

Some papers, stressing the fact that
the note expressly referred to the
Potsdam Agreement, concluded that
the Kremlin's real goal was a seat
on the Ruhr International Authority
and reparations from Ruhr production.
The possibility was also foreseen that
Moscow intended ultimately to offer
to recognize the Federal Republic and
to establish separate spheres of interest
provided the Soviets obtained Ruhr
concessions,

The press believed that in such a
development Western Germany would
continue to exert a much stronger
power of attraction than the puppet
Eastern state with the result that it
would become the predestined nucleus
of a future united Germany, a trend
which could be combatted only by
Soviet use of force,

This section is compiled from a sum-
mary prepared by the Press & Publica-
tions Branch, Information Services Divi-
sion, HICOG, of editorials and reports
in the German press. The publishing of
these translations is intended to portray
what the Germans are writing and think-
ing, and not necessarily to give any
concurrence to their views and opinions,

East State

In the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Mu-
nich, Oct. 4), “Junius” speculated on
the motives behind the belated Soviet
protest note, thus: “,.. A close study
of the contents seems to indicate that
the Kremlin‘s rigid clinging to Pots-
dam Agreement terms primarily con-
cerns two of its claims. Firstly, (its
opposition to) exclusion of west
German production from Russian
reparations and, secondly, Russia's
own exclusion from Ruhr control. , .

“The fact that this Soviet reply was
‘so long in coming may be ascribed to
Moscow's experience with the SED,
which leads it to doubt that the Volks-
rat ("People’s Congress") could provide
a feasible basis for the erection of
an East government. Moreover, it
knows full well that the continual
threat of an East state is infinitely

more effective and valuable than the
reality could ever be...”

Red Answer to Bonn

The Schwaebische Post (Aalen, W-B,
Oct. 4), in an editorial by “H. A.B.,"
bitterly reflected on Germany's future:
“,., . The Kremlin's new step has
a definite purpose: to pave the way
for an East German government which
will claim to be the only legal one
for Germany, This is the Communist
answer to Bonn, The whole recent
trend of the Communist press in-
dicates it...

“Each citizen here can confirm that
the German government in the West
was formed by means of free elec-
tions and not under Allied pressure,

as the Kremlin alleges . . . It is
useless to consider the Soviet ar-
guments...

“Germany unity is possible only if
we are free. Stalin’s German friends
will hardly dare, despite all terror,
to allow free elections to take place
in the Eastern Zone . . . Therefore
it is only too clear that there is no
hope of re-establishing German unity
and preventing Germany's parti-
tion...”

In the Abendzeitung (Mannheim,
W-B, Oct. 4), Kurt Krausbeck,
editorializing on the new puppet
government, said: “. . . The popular
democratic parliaments and the
government elected by them will
always know that an officer of the

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Sept. 15)

(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, Sept. 27)

Fiir Muttern ist kein Platz im Bett

No place for Mother in this bed!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Geplagte Mutter Erde: ,,Hatte ich doch nie den Einfall mit der

Atombombe gehabt!«

Tormented Mother Earth:

32

“I wish I'd never thought of the atom bomb!"

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 40 ---
NKVD is present and will always
feel his pistol muzzle tickling their
necks.”

In the Heidelberger Tageblatt (Hei-
delberg, Oct. 5), Kar] Silex does not
see much importance in the move as
such a measure would only “de-
Monstrate to western Germans the
terrible moral pressure exerted upon
their brothers in the East.”

He remarked that the spirit in which
the Occupation Statute tis applied by
the Western Powers will be decisive
for the success of their policy as,
provided the Statute is honestly used,
the Allies need not fear that the
Germans would play off the Soviet
Union against Western demoracy.

Devaluation
URRENCY DEVALUATION also
was a focal point of press

opinion. In handling news of the
pound devaluation and the im-
minence of similar action on the
Deutsche mark, the-press evinced a
high sense of civic responsibility by
embarking on what evidently was a
deliberate campaign to calm possible
public fear of inflation.

It was emphasized that the purchas-
ing power of the D-mark would
remain stabie, that savings were safe
and stressed the favorable effect
devaluation would have on export
trade and hence on the employment
situation, However, opposition to
devaluation, in principle, was ex-
pressed, as a feckless expedient which

merely postponed the evil day, In

(Muenchener Merkur, Munich,
Sept. 20)

Aus Washington suriick:
»Um Gotteswillen, er ist auch in
die Demontage geraten

Pound Devalution.

“For Heaven's sake, they
dismantled him, too!”

NOVEMBER 1949

(Soxialdemokrat,Berlin, Sept.10)

Wartlich genommen

“Comrades of the People’s
Police, fight for your
freedom!" — and they
take him at his word!

the case of the D-mark fears were
voiced that such a step so soon after
currency reform would shake public
confidence and that increased dollar
indebtedness would make German
economic recovery illusory.

The Darmstaedter Echo (Darmstadt,
Hesse, Sept, 19), of which Heinz Ad.
Kaaf is editor, approved: “. . . The
devaluation of the pound is an im-
portant step toward European economic
stabilization, It would, of course, be
a mistake to regard the present cur-
rency moves as a panacea and the
perfect way out of European distress
.. . but they will help considerably
and... furthermore will take the
wind out of the sails of those
nationalistic tendencies at present
obstructing European cooperation.”

The Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf,
NR-W, Sept, 20) was not convinced
of the wisdom of the move: “At any
rate there should first be a thorough
study of the matter... It is doubtful
whether the young German economy
can stand such a shock. We have
enough social distress in Germany as
it is and there is a limit to what a
people can bear. The political setting
in Germany is just the opposite of
that in Great Britain, Such inter-
national monetary measures would
give impetus to the socialist op-
position here.”

The Main Post (Wuerzburg, Bav.,
Sept, 20) was vigorously opposed,
and feared the consequences for West
Germany: “. .. To attempt to cure a
sick economy by juggling figures is

33

just as hopeless as it is (to seek)
to cure cancer with court plaster. The
real reason for pound devaluation
was England's waning competitive
power...

“Our economists believe we must
swallow this hitter pill and cor-
respondingly devalue the D-mark...
We are a creditor country and owe
dollars .. . If the mark is devalued
it means we will one day have to pay
back more than we originally re-
ceived . . . The loss of credit will
have an evil effect on the will to
save and will enhance our lack of
capital .. .”

“Stolen Wage Bags”

The Mannheimer Morgen (Mann-
heim, W-B, Sept. 22) in an editorial
entitled “Stolen Wage Bags” over
the signature of S. O. Weber voiced
fears that unemployment would mount
if the Deutsche mark were not
devalued,

Weber took occasion to point out
that while Dr. Kurt Schumacher, SPD
chairman, earlier had declared that
the rate of 30 US cents for DM 1
was too high, he now argues against
devaluation,

End of MG

The postmortems on Military
Government generally were friendly.
The Muenchner Merkur (Munich,
Sept. 19), for example, said Military
Government was a success and in
large measure had achieved its aims:
a . It started out as a military
dictatorship, but it developed into

(Die Welt, Hamburg, Sept. 10)

y»So — und achten Sie auf gute Erziehung

Western Allies to German Mickel:
“Here's the baby, bring it up well.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
something quite different .. . It made
big mistakes, largely because it is
an anomaly to expect to introduce
democracy by military fiat. But, to
be honest, one must admit that to
some extent it worked...

“Especially effective was the in-
fluence of the military governors on
our public life. Many of them under-
stood how to show German citizens
what their civil rights were and how
to defend them .. . We should use
the present occasion to thank our
enemies of yesterday for what they
did for us in the years of our bitterest
need, especially respecting the feeding
of the German people .. .”

Top Hat Replaces Helmet

In a front page editorial, the
Muenchener Merkur (Munich, Sept.
19) referred to Sir Brian Robertson's
appearance in Bonn in a top hat and
cutaway as symbolic of the end of
Military Government and the advent
of a new era:

". . , The fundamental change lies
in the fact that we no longer receive
orders,.but can negotiate, and that a
chair has been reserved for us at
the round table of nations.”

‘Concluding a review of the four
and one-half years of MG rule, the
editorial said: “.., Let us take this
opportunity and thank our enemies of
yesterday for the help they have
extended us, particularly for providing
food for our starving people in the
years of bitter need, Let us bridge
the differences which still exist today
in all sincerity and open-mindedness,

(Muenchener Merkur, Munich, Sept. 24) of

wAbends, wenn ich schlafen geh’ alle Englein um mich stehn...«

“Now I lay me down to sleep, angels help my soul to keep.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Frankenpost, Hof, Sept. 17)

»Bedauere, Marschall Tito nimmt heute keine
Anleihen mehr entgegen !

“Sorry, Marshal Tito isn't accepting
any more loans today.”

but let us also hope that our politi-
cians will not abuse the newly-won
freedom by talking ‘plain German,’
as so often has been done in our past,

“Banging the table may please
German voters, but smashes more
china than we can replace. Our poli-
ticians will do well to remember that
there is such a thing as good man-
ners in diplomacy and that our
reentry into international politics
carries a diplomatic responsibility.”

Chancellor Adenauer
The composite picture that emerged
from the many papers that concerned
themselves with Chancellor Aden-
auer’s personality, was: a strong man,
a tactically-clever politician, one of
the few real leaders left over from
the Weimar republic. His position
in the CDU-CSU was compared to the
role Stresemann played in the
Deutsche Volkspartei (German Peo-
ple’s Party) in Weimar times, that
of holding the party together through
the sheer force
personality.
However, the
disadvantagesof
such a_ shaky
situation from
a governmental
standpoint were
stressed.

The leftist
press saw Ade-
nauer as a re-
presentative of
the employer
class and an
arch-type of the
upper - middle
class. The So-
viet - dominated

34

press branded him a traitor and
pointed to his Rhineland separatist
callaboration with France after World
War I.

His declaration of policy on the
whole was favorably received. Com-
mentators noted he had skillfully pre-
sented matters close to German
hearts. The reserve with which he
spoke was praised as just the right
tone in Germany's difficult inter-
national position, His recognition of
the necessity for social reform was
greeted with satisfaction, The gene-
ral impression seemed to be that
Adenauer as chancellor would carry
Germany a good distance along the
road to freedom.

The Oberbayerisches Volksblatt
(Rosenheim, Bav., Sept. 17), of which
Winfried Martini is editor, declared
Adenauer “ . a realist, not a wish-
ful-thinker,.. . He knows the value
of power without being tempted’ to
abuse it... He has a superior talent
for party tactics combined with far-
sightedness on big issues ... He has
a strong and extraordimarily fascinat-
ing personality ... In short, he is a
masterful character in the best sense
of the word...”

“In domestic politics,” the Volks-
blatt added, “he is characterized by
a lively aversion to the SPD which
far transcends his dislike of the KPD.
Nevertheless, he is far too clever not
to know that a constructive social
policy today is the key to political
success ., .”

Anti-Semitism
Die Gegenwart (Freiburg, Baden,
Sept. 1), expressed doubt of the

existence of militant anti-Semitism
in Germany but found the immigra-
tion of Jews a great loss to the country.

“Even under Hitler there was little
evidence of spontaneous anti-Semi-
tism. It was an official anti-Semi-
tism organized and directed by the
State... The people's share in the
guilt lay in the fact that the prick-
ings of conscience were shrugged off
with the uneasy thought that perhaps
the Jews needed a lesson.

“What we have today is less anti-
Semitism than resentment ... con-
cerning such matters as the com-
position of the Nuremberg prose-
cution, which automatically aroused
sympathy for some of the defendants,

NOVEMBER 1949.

--- Page 42 ---
and the privileges accorded DP's,
which some of them used to illegal
advantage...

“However, whatever anti-Semitism
there is in Germany today is about
to lose its objects as most foreign
Jews will soon be gone and the
German Jews will never come
back ... . The effect is evident, in
literature, music, science, economics...
Germany committed terrible crimes
against the Jews, but it sinned no
less against itself... We have
mutilated ourselves and blown up
our bridge to the world.”

Shades of Weimar

The Fuldaer Volkszeitung (Fulda,
Hesse, Sept. 22) in an editorial by
Hans Joachim Rauschenbach entitled
“Shades of Weimar,” voiced alarm
that as early as at the sixth session
of the federal council (Bundestag),
Weimar had begun to cast dangerous
shadows over Bonn:

“|. . What worries us are the in-
cidents which developed during the
general debate on Dr. Adenauer’s
declaration of governmental policy.
Prolonged storms of protest, wild and
unrestrained exclamations, hair split-
ting and demagogic controversies
evoked memories of the Reichstag,
where disunity and unparliamentary
language and, finally, a howling gal-
lery marked the beginning of the
end...”

Communist Tactics

In the Neckar Echo (Heilbronn,
W-B, Sept, 21), an editorial entitled
“Red Tactics” said that west German

(Hochland-Bote, Garmisch-
partenkirchen, Sept. 13)

yDer Kerl denkt anschei-
nend gar nicht daran aus-
susteigen — Is

Unemployment:"Looks
like the fellow never
means to get out.”

NOVEMBER 1949

KPD chairman
Max Reimann
has changed
his tactics and
now is work-
ing for a coali-
tion with the
SPD against
the “advanc-
ing monopoly
capitalism.”

Reimann’'s
declaration re-
garding the
inviolability of
the Oder-
Neisse frontier
line, however,
proves that the basic principles of his
party have not been changed, it was
pointed oui.

Casualties in Greece

In Der Volkswille (Schweinfurt,
Bav., Sept, 23) Dr. Herbst, the licensee,
discussing the military position of
Germany, mentioned casualty figures
given by former German air force
General Brand, now commanding of-
ficer of the “Greek Brigade” recruited
in the Soviet Zone, in a list submitted
to the SED, as “426 killed in action;
1,280 wounded; 76 sentenced to death
for attempted desertion; 264 in prison;
283 desertions.”

“From these grim statistics," the
paper commented, “the recruiting
methods of this brigade are evident,
and we can understand why rumors
of recruiting in Western Germany were
given such exaggerated importance
in the Eastern zone."*

Christian Duty

The Main Post (Wuerzburg, Bav.,
Sept. 6) commented on the signifi-
cance of the Catholic Day conference
in Bochum:

“The attitude of the Church on the
problems of. modern society has
been clarified... Perhaps the most
essential statement made was that
which held that every individual
Christian was pledged to further
these aims... which are, in short, the
carrying over of neighborly love into

* Actually, as emphasized repeatedly in
statements by the former military governors,

there is no recruiting at all in the Western
zones,

35

(Stuttgarter Nachrichten, Stuttgart, Sept. 14)

DEVTSCHE
MARK

eure 048

Die D-Mark auf der Kurs-Wippe

The D-Mark must be balanced for Export and Import.

the social and economic fields. In the
measure in which this replaces the
present materialistic thinking of a
great part of our people, it will be
necessary to renounce many liberal
and Marxist doctrines and certain
economic laws hitherto regarded as
inviolable...

“The convention marks the begin-
ning of a new trend in thinking and
feeling to which all those present
felt themselves spiritually pledged.”

Extraterritoriality

Christ und Welt (Stuttgart, Sept. 1)
thought the time had come to do
away with extraterritorial rights in
Germany:

“In 1945 we didn’t have any
dependable system of courts and it,
therefore, was understandable that
foreigners were accorded extraterri-
torial status . . . . Today German
justice is intact and worthy of con-
fidence again. It will accord the same
justice to foreigners as to Ger-
mans... . It is, therefore, un-
reasonable to continue special privi-
leges for foreigners . . . . Otherwise
we Germans may come to the con-
clusion that it does not pay to enter
into business relations with people
against whom we have no legal pro-
tection.” ,

Warning Welcomed

The radio interview given Mr.
Edwin L. Haaker of NBC* by Mr.
McCloy was favorably received, The
press vigorously supported the US

* See Information Bulletin, Issue No. 170,
Sept. 20, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
(Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung, Hanover,
Sept. 29)

y

Wetterfahne de Gaulle

De Gaulle the Weather-Vane.
For or against Germany.

High Commissioner's view that party
discord presented a serious danger
for a democratic Germany at this
juncture.

Newspapers found encouraging the
statements of Mr. McCloy and Gen-
eral Hays that the future course of
American policy in Germany would
be “supervisory rather than govern-
ing.”

“Tales of Hoffman”

The Wirtschaftszeitung (Stuttgart,
Aug. 31), under the headline ‘Tales
of Hoffman (Paul) pointed out that
the 159 plants stricken from the dis-
mantling list have a total value about
half that of the eight plants still
listed.

“We realize it wasn't easy for the
US government to persuade its allies
to make even this concession, but we
ask (ECA) Administrator Hoffman
how he expects us to heed his ad-
monitions to increase exports under
such circumstances... .?”

“Black Front"

In Badische Neueste Nachrichten
(Karlsruhe, W-B., Sept. 12), “M. S."
eamestly warned against the Otto
Strasser movement: *

“His reappearance in the political
heavens foreshadows an attempt for
power by irresponsible elements. The
‘Black Front’ would like to ‘renew’
Germany and fight fanatically for
Strasser's return ... The success of
their plans would mean a return to
chaos ... What Germany needs above
all else is confidence from abroad.”

® See ‘Press and Radio Comments"’ in In-
formation Bulletin, Issue No. 155, Feb. 22, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Books and Pamphlets

(Reviews prepared by Scrutiny Section, Press
and Publications Branch, Information Services
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG)

Statistisches Handbuch von Deutsch-
land (Statistical Handbook of Ger-
many, 1928-1944), issued by the US
Zone Laenderrat. Published by Franz
Ehrenwirth-Verlag, Munich (DM _ 386).

HIS, THE FIRST complete statis-

tixal volume appearing under Ger-
man auspices since the war, includes
statistical data in important fields
for prewar and war years. In part, it
is based on the Statistical Handbook
of Germany which was prepared in
1945/46 by the Ministerial Collecting
Center near Kassel and appeared in
a small mimeographed edition with
numerous inadequacies.

This, in turn, had utilized the
extensive material which the Germans
prepared during the war years, partly
for specialized tse and partly for
inclusion in a planned edition of the
Statistical Yearbook, the last issue
of which appeared in 1941/42 classified
“secret” with limited distribution.

The statistics include data for 1928,
the prewar boom year; 1932, a year
of economic crisis; 1936, the year of
the industry census and the most
“normal” prewar year; and 1938, the
last year of peace, in addition to
those war years on which data are
available, The only postwar data
included cover population, as no other
postwar data on an all-German basis
are available.

The majority of tables are based
on te _ territory of
Germany as of Dec. 3],

137 (Altreich), and
wherever possible the
data are subdivided

regionally into the four
zones of occupation,
Berlin and the territory
east of the Oder-Neisse.
(Review by Reports
and Statistics Division,
Office of Administration,
HICOG,)

Das Antlitz der Ver-

triebenen — Schicksal
und Wesen der Fliicht-
lingsgruppen (The Ex-

pelees—Fate and Nature

36

Aetsch!— Aetsch!— mich holst Du nicht mehr ein!
“You'll never catch up with me!"

of the Refugee Groups) edited by
Dr. Herbert Krimm chief manager
of the central office of the Hilfswerk
of the Evangelical Church in Ger-
many. Preface by Bishop Dr. Th.
Wurm. Published by Verlag J. F.
Steinkopf, Stuttgart.

HE CHURCH is concerned with

the spiritual welfare of the re-
fugees. It is the purpose of this book
to arouse understanding for the
special situation of the Protestant
German refugees from Eastern Ger-
many and Eastern Europe, whose
religious life in the Diaspora had a
more individual aspect than that of
the Catholics who found in their new
environment the religious rites with
which they were familiar.

The descriptions of their former
life are not to recall woeful memories;
they are intended to free the refugee
from his! collective and anonymous
existence and to show him as a
human being who has been shaped
by historical and individual experience
and to respect his personal way of
life.

In the preface Bishop Wurm
especially urges clergymen to show
understanding helpfulness and to
strive in their communities to tear
down the walls separating people
who are dependent upon each other.

Als Gefangene bei Stalin und Hitler
(A Prisoner of Stalin and Hitler) by
Margarete Buber-Neumann, published
by Verlag der Zwoelf, Munich, The
excellent English translation by Ed-
ward Fitzgerald has been published by

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Sept. 29)

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 44 ---
Victor Gollancz, London, as “Under
Two Dictators.”

ARGARETEBUBER-NEUMANN’'S

book is most effective propa-
ganda against totalitarianism and
statism because it refrains from using
propaganda tricks, There is stark
tragedy in the fate of this woman
who left Germany in 1933 to escape
the SS. In 1935 she went to Moscow
where, three years later, she was
arrested and condemned to five years
at hard labor in Siberia. Following
the German-Russian alliance of 1940
she was surrendered by the NKVD
(now MVD) to the Gestapo, which
kept her in Ravensbrueck concentra-
tion camp until the and of the war.
Today she lives in Stockholm,

The book renders a simple account
of how people lived and died in
Russian and Nazi concentration
camps, An abundance of detail gives
an impressive picture of living con-
ditions as they still exist for millions
of people in eastern Europe and Asia.
This document of organized in-
fhumanity, pictured without resent-
ment, accusation or appeal, rouses
the will to fight political total-
itarianism and makes us conscious of
the inalienable value of the in-
dividual, of his opportunities to assert
himself against collectivism and of
the strength that lies in the direct
relations between man and man.

“Under Two Dictators" was publish-
ed as a serial by a number of Ger-
man newspapers,

Publizistik im Dritten Reich (“Public
Information under the Third (Reich")
by Walter Hagemann, Prof, of News-
Paper Science at the University of
Muenster, Published by Hansischer
Gildeverlag, Hamburg-Wandsbeck,

HIS EXPERT contribution to the
methods of mass guidance per-
mits us to throw a glance behind the
scenes of public information under
the Third Reich, The author bases
his statements on more than 50,000
government-issued instructions, which
were collected by the Berlin office of
the Frankfurter Zeitung from 1935
to 1943. Besides he refers to speeches
made by Hitler and Goebbels and to
the latter's diary of the year 1942/43.
The book subjects all public infor-
mation media under the Third Reich

NOVEMBER 1949

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, Oct. 4)

Eine Luftbruecke, die nie beendet wird!

Berlin and the Federal Republic,
An air bridge that will always be.

(newspapers, periodicals, radio, film,
theater and speeches) to a thorough
examination, Hagemann states that all
modern dictatorships have one com-
mon basis, i, e, the monopolistic
position of a single party.

The Soviet Union has in the 20th
century realized its totalitarian rule
over all means of public guidance.
Though there were considerable ideo-
logical differences between Berlin and
Moscow, the Nazis to a large extent
adopted the Russian method of public
information, as study of Hagemann’s
work proves. In spite of being a
scientific book, it is fascinating, easy
reading.

The Deutscher Presse Dienst (former
news service in the British zone)
comments that this book is convincing
even to the reader ‘who approaches
this premature attempt to investigate
the recent past with critical skep-
ticism,"

Ernst Juenger — Weg und Wirkung
("Ernst Juenger — His Course and
Influence”) by Karl O. Paetel, a Ger-
man emigrant, whose works were
banned in 1933 and who now lives in
Forest Hills, N. Y., as an independent
author, Published by .Ernst Klett, Stutt-
gart.

AETEL, WHO for many years has

taken a lively interest in Juen-
ger's work and spiritual development,
contributes with his book to the
violent discussion regarding Ernst
Juenger conducted in Germany and
abroad.

Paetel pays justice to Juenger,
whom he regards as a unique “radia-
ting phenomenon” (Austrahlungs-
phenomen) of international importance.

37

The purpose of his guidance through
Juenger’s books, with many quotations
and arguments pro and con, is to
acquaint us with this man who ex-
presses in words what millions of
people experience and think and who
has cultivated a fine sense for the
dangers and possibilities of our century.

The appended bibliography, contain-
ing all essential commentaries, gives
an impression of the effect which
Juenger's publications have produced,

The Stuttgarter Zeitung (Aug, 3)
commented: “..While Paetel sees ‘n
Ernst Juenger the unrelenting ques-
tioner, he considers his work and
personality as representing the Ger-
many of today insofar as it is spir-
itually awake... While many of those
who left Germany in 1933 lost connec-
tion with the underground ferment in
their own people, Paetel surprises by
his knowledge of things which were
then only in the process of taking on
concrete form...”

Ritter der Gerechtigkeit (“Cham-
pions of Justice") by Stefan Andres,
winner of the Rheinischer Literatur-
preis (Rhine prize for literature) 1949.
German licensed edition published by
Verlag R. Piper and Co., Munich.

HE SCENE of this novel is Naples

in the year 1943, shortly before
and after Mussolini's fall. The author
depicts the social conditions and the
mature and characteristics of the
Italians. He has a sound knowledge
of Italian social tensions, which have
so often provoked unrest.

The heroes of his book are all
animated with the desire to help
justice to prevail, though their
courses differ. Not with terror, nor
merely with words can this goal be
reached, but only with true neighborly
Jove. Andres sharply denounces the
political upstarts who yesterday still
belonged to the Fascist camp and
today pretend to be democrats. His
description of the war behind the
fronts with all its horrors and the
terror of an occupation disregarding
human rights is impressive. He also
shows up human shortcomings, heart-
lessness and egoism, especially
evident in wartime,

The purpose of this timely publica-
tion is to admonish and summon
humanity to stand up for justice,
freedom, peace and tolerance. -++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
(Continued from page 18)
Germany’s Liberal Groups

restoring a free economy than
members of his own CDU have been.

HE LIBERAL parties have strong

Z anticlerica] traditions. They be-
lieve in the complete separation of
church and state. On this subject, the
party platform declares: ‘The churches
are recognized by the FDP as the most
precious cultural elements. in our
national life and hence will be sup-
ported in the fulfillment of their
spiritual, cultural and welfare ac-
tivities, The FDP decisively rejects,
however, every misuse of religion for
the purpose of party domination, The
FDP likewise opposes any renewal of
the unhappy denominational division
of our people and advocates common
Christian schools.”

At Bonn, the FDP therefore
resisted the attempt of the CDU/CSU
to “anchor” the Concordat that the
Nazi government concluded with the
Vatican in 1933 in the constitution
and opposed taking control of the
schools out of the hands of the state.
For the FDP regards the confessional
(denominational) schools as a denial
of the basic rights contained in the
Bonn constitution and refused to
recognize the Concordat of 1933.

By tradition, the Liberals tend to
favor a strong central government.
In 1848, they were the champions of
Reich unity and the National Liberals
were later the strongest parliamentary
supporters of Bismarck, the creator
of German unity. Furthermore, the
Democrats included some of the chief
architects of the Weimar republic,
which greatly increased the powers
of the central government vis-a-vis
the states.

T IS IN LINE with this tradition

that the FDP delegation at Bonn
insisted on a strong central govern-
ment, standing with the SPD on this
issue against the CDU/CSU, the
champions of state rights. In particular,
Dr. Hermann Hoepker-Aschoff of the
FDP, the former Prussian finance
minister, led the fight to maintain
the supremacy of the federal] govern-
ment in matters of finance as against
the states, demanding the retention
of the famous Erzberger reforms of
1919, whereby the central government
was empowered to collect the taxes

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and distribute them among the states.
Likewise, the FDP members at Bonn
argued strongly in favor of the Bundes-
rat, or second chamber of parliament,
having only a suspensory veto over
bills passed by the lower house,
Just as the liberals of 1848 were
the sponsors of the federal con-
Stitution drafted by the Frankfurt
National Assembly and the democrats
of 1919 took the lead in fighting for
the adoption of the Weimar con-
Stitution, so the FDP of 1949 was in
the forefront of the fight to secure
adoption of the Basic Law drafted by
the pariiamentary council at Bonn.
The FDP stands for a modified
system of proportional representation
as the electoral procedure. It fears
that if the majority, single-district
system were universally applied, it
would be squeezed out, as a party, by
the larger parties. +END

(Continued from page 20)
Political Aims at Bonn

international socialist but also the
duty of every German patriot to pay
special attention to the fate of Ger-
man and European Jews and grant
the aid needed.”

EFERRING TO the new state as

one of “social restoration” in the
German historical meaning, Schu-
macher said: “We still stand for im-
mediate equalization of burdens and
socialization... The task we are
facing is increasing production by at
least one-third of its present volume.
Such an increase must be accom-
panied by reduction of prices, which
in turn is only possible if economic
powers are concentrated .. . on mass
production.”

A comprehensive and active price
policy was called for in order to
relieve the position of the poor with
regard to rents and food and an at-
tempt should be made to reduce occu-
pation costs. Further, care should
be exercised in the use of Marshall
aid, especially with regard to
shipping, which he said took 25 per-
cent of Germany's allotment.

The question of creation of work
and full employment was regarded as
an important one. Schumacher com-
pared the Frankfurt and British eco-
nomic systems, Full employment, h-
said, was impossible without planned

38

economy, Socialization was not only
an economic question but also a
political one and the orthodox methods
of the Bank Deutscher Laender (Bank
of German States) would be a hind-
rance rather than a help in the
future. Production must also be
raised by a third in industry and
agriculture, but this must go hand in
hand with price reduction. The price
dictatorship of big monopolies which
was returning and lack of a uniform
land reform militated against this.

CHUMACHER CALLED the atten-

tion of the deputies to problems
emanating from the influx of refugees
and displaced persons into western
Germany and said, "The Oder-Neisse
line can only be tackled if we fulfill
a social and human duty toward the
refugees. Dismantling, he thought,
greatly hindered the solution of the
problem, but it was an all-German
problem on which everyone should
concentrate. If the Eastern Zone
was to be won back the West must
be made a magnet socially and econo-
mically.

Regarding the Ruhr agreement, not
discussed by Adenauer, Schumacher
made it clear that his party would
work toward basic changes in the
Ruhr office, “that is, changes which
would eliminate hindrances for
socialization and which would also
abolish one most decisive mistake,
namely, that matters concerned with
goods have been regulated by the
agreement, but those human beings
who create these goods, are not men-
tioned at all.”

Ag for the Saar problem, he said
that “creation of an autonomous Saar
state would hinder decisively deve-
lopment of European cooperation...
We thus would not only weaken our
position in the West, but also weaken
our position toward the East. A com-
promise on the question of the Saar
would deprive us of the basis for
the political fight against acceptance
of the Oder-Neisse line.”

In conclusion, Schumacher em-
phasized that his party members
“are by no means the negation of
this government. We are something
independent. Our opposition in this
house is aimed at obtaining a parlia-
mentary majority for socialist demo-
cracy.” +END

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 46 ---
(Continued from page 10)
Our German Publications

50,000, the magazine, despite the
vicissitudes of currency reform and
paper shortage, now has attained a
circulation of 375,752.

After four years of publication, the
magazine has won German accep-
tance as the outstanding picture
magazine in the Western
and 1s widely read for its picture
essays on international, American and
German topics, With editorial offices
in Munich, the editorial staff consists
of three American magazine men sup-
plemented by a staff of carefully
selected Germans.

Published every second Wednesday,
HEUTE has been instrumental in setting
high standards for German magazines.
It presents world news in words and
pictures as well as opinions of leading
personalities of many countries. It
is noted for printing the critical views
of its own readers and provides a
special appeal to women and youth
through carefully chosen stories and
illustrations reflecting their activities
in the world at large.

Articles and photographic reports
by foreign authorities in the fields
of literature, music, politics, science
and history as well as some fiction
are a steady feature. Its appeal is
directed to the broad reading public
and the family circle.

S POLITICAL developments in

Germany grew and the line be-
tween the free-thinking democracies
and the totalitarian state became more
sharply drawn, Information Services
Division felt that there existed the
need for still another overt publication
of political and intellectual scope.
Der Monat appeared on the news-
stands in October 1948 to provide the
German reader with an international
review in which the major questions
of the day could be discussed by
writers and thinkers on a free, non-
national basis.

Shortly after its initial distribution
of 60,000 copies, half a dozen cities
reported a complete sellout and
demanded a reprint. Today Der Monat,
its literary success assured, has a
circulation averaging 21,481.

According to its prospectus, Der
Monat is intended “to offer the German

zones

NOVEMBER 1949

Col. Donald C. Foote, chief, Transportation Branch, BMP, and Col. J. E, Barr,

CO, Tempelhof Airbase, toss out last bags of coal brought to Berlin by the
airlift Oct. 1, 1949, ending the mammoth feat which fed and fueled blockaded

Berlin for 15 months and five days.

(US Army photo)

reading public an important link with
the outside world of ideas and con-
troversy, exposing the readers to
international influences, making the
record of both American and European
political and cultural achievement
understandable and impressive, clari-
fying the basic issues of the day which
divide the free world from the
totalitarian state...”

Contributors to the magazine have
included such leading literary figures
as Thomas Mann, Arnold Toynbee,
Thornton Wilder, Jean-Paul Sartre
and Arthur Koestler. Der Monat
during its first year has won wide
acclaim from both the German press
and leaders in German political life,
who have hailed it,as an important
international forum in the field of
culture.

Through its five widely diverse
outlets, Publishing Operations Branch
is fulfilling the occupation’s long-
term reorientation mission not only
by projecting America and_ the
American viewpoint and policies, but
by telling of developments and events
relevant to the task of creating a
democratic Germany. The branch's
five American publications in the
German language are, in effect, mes-
sengers from the American people
to the German people. +END

39

(Continued from page 8)
The German Economy

could be more encouraging to the
new German government than that
the mining industry and its workers
should again set an example of strenu-
ous effort, such as they did two years
ago when spirits and conditions were
low in nearly all sections of the Ger-
man economy. It was the performance
of the miners which gave the first
impetus to the restoration of the in-
dustrial economy, and it was the
growth of their output, coupled with
other factors, which enabled the iron
and steel industry to register an al-
most sensational increase,
Arguments will continue between
the advocates of this or that govern-
mental policy in relation to industry.
The adoption of one system or an-
other can, of course, have a material
effect on the progress of production
and the success of enterprise. But it
is in the final analysis the extent to
which the individual German devotes
his individual efforts to the particular
task allotted to him that will govern,
and expedite or delay, the recovery
of the economy, the reconstruction of
town and country and the restoration
of a good standard of living for the
community. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Home Gardens Add
To Zone Food Supply

ORE THAN one-third of the US

Zone population has added to
its food consumption’ through home
grown garden products raised as a
result of Military Government's home
garden program, according to a re-
port by the Food and Agriculture
Group of the Economic Adviser's
Office, HICOG. The report was pre-
pared in connection with the recent
statement by Mr. Paul G. Hoffman,
ECA administrator, calling on the
German people to help conserve food
imports by cultivating home vegetable
gardens,

Home gardening in the zone reach-
ed a peak in 1948, when there were
more than 1,500,000 home gardens
under cultivation. They comprised
almost 240,000 acres and benefited
more than 6,000,000 persons.

In that year, it was estimated, the
net yield of the home gardens was
approximately 370,000 metric tons of
vegetables, not including potatoes,
giving an average of 135 pounds per
capita. Home grown vegetables,
excluding potatoes, thus supplemented
the daily diet of the gardeners and
their families by approximately 58
calories per person,

N 1949, the report showed, home
gardening decreased by ap-
proximately 10 percent throughout
the zone, with the largest reduction,
about 25 percent, occuring in Hesse.
The reduction, according to the re-
port, apparently resulted from the
general improvement in the standard
of living, the increase in the food
ration, the decontrol of many food
items and the abundance of vege-
tables imported under trade agree-
ments.

It is anticipated that in 1950 home
gardening may again rise to the 1948
level, because of the prevailing threat
of unemployment, the relatively high
prices of vegetables and the reduced
purchasing power of the average
consumer,

Exact figures of the number of gar-
dens under cultivation and the area
involved immediately after the war
are not available, but it is estimated
that approximately 1,000,000 home
gardens were in existence in 1945,
comprising a total area of about
190,000 acres. In 1946, an estimated
200,000 additional gardens, with an
area of 21,400 acres, were established.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

| $5,000 Prizes Offered in Art Contest

N ART COMPETITION for Ger-

man artists will seek to en-
courage and stimulate artists in all
zones of Germany. The contest is
open to all artists who are residents
of Germany and between 18 and 40
years of age.

“The $5,000 in prizes, which include
a trip to the United States and two
trips — either to Paris or Rome —
have been created with the gen-
erous help of Blevins Davis, American
patron of the arts,” said Louis M. Mi-
niclier, chief of the US ‘Cultural Af-
fairs Branch in Bavaria,

“Mr. Davis, who visited Germany
with the American presentation of
Hamlet this summer, was impressed
with the possibilities of furthering
art in Germany and encouraging
hitherto unknown talents. Mr. Davis
hopes that through the competition a
cultural endowment might be created
to further cultural exchange of ar-
tists and their work.”

The prizes will be: First prize,
$1,000 and a trip to the United States;
second and third prizes, $700 and a
trip to Paris or Rome, each; fourth
and fifth prizes, $500 each; sixth
through the tenth prizes, $100 each.

The competition is open in all me-
diums excepting sculpture. An en-
trant may submit not more than three

items. Official entry planks and a
prospectus containing details may be
obtained from the director of the com-
petition, Stefan P. Munsing, Central
Collecting Point, Arcisstrasse 10,
Munich. As the number of entries will
have to be limited, it is requested that
applications for entry blanks be made
as early as possible, All entries must
be submitted by Dec. 1, 1949,

The jury deciding the awards will
consist of eight prominent German
museum officials, artists and critics
and three Americans. The names of
members of the jury will be an-
nounced later.

Prize winners will be announced on
Christmas Day at the opening of an
exhibition of the 175 best works of
art submitted in the contest in the
galleries of the Central Collecting
Point in Munich, Following this ex-
hibition, the works will be shown in
two other German cities and then go
on tour of leading American art cen-
ters, ,

Davis, a member of the board of the
Ballet Theater, financed the American
production of Hamlet at Elsinore
Castle, Denmark, ast summer and was
instrumental in arranging the recent
tour of the American Howard Univer-
sity Players in the Scandinavian coun-
tries.

ECA Recovery Purchases

Western Germany was authorized
to spend $15,600,000 for recovery
purchases during August. The figures
were made public in a report issued
by the ECA Reports and Analysis
Branch in Washington.

The cumulative amount of ERP
procurement authorization for Trizonal
Germany has totaled $657,100,000
from the beginning of the ERP pro-
gram on April 3, 1948, to Aug. 31,
1949. Of this amount $532,500,000
was authorized for the Bizone and
$124,600,000 for the French Zone.

In the Bizone, food and agriculfural
items account for Approximately 66.7
percent of all authorization funds to
date, industrial commodities 24.2 per-
cent, ocean freight 9.1 percent,

40

16,000 New Fre'ght Cars

‘Delivered to Bundesbahn

The German railroad system (Bundes-
bahn, formerly Reichsbahn) up to
Sept. 15 had received 16,008 new
freight cars from five European
countries, representing approximate-
ly 95 percent of the 16,830 being
constructed in Italy, Belgium, Austria,
Hungary and Czechoslovakia under
contracts sponsored by the Joint
Export-Import Agency one year ago.

Czechoslovakian firms, which held
contracts for building 3,480 rail cars,
completed their deliveries during
August, Belgian firms have 53 rail
cars to deliver to complete their con-
tracted 6,310 while Italian firms, with
contracts for 4,750 cars, have deliver-
ed all but 29,

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 48 ---
(Continued from page 13)
Postwar Publishing

sympathetic reactions among large
population groups. It is therefore un-
derstandable that German publishers
have been tempted to champion a spe-
cious justice which protests occupation
policies, measures and personnel.

UBLICATIONS BRANCH found

that the new liberties taken by
German publishers required careful
scrutiny to determine to what extent
the laws of the occupation had been
crossed. The record of one state,
typical of the others, shows that nine
reprimands were administered follow-
ing currency reform while only three
reprimands were required prior to
reform.

This need for MG reprimand, how-
ever, should not necessarily be con-
strued as an indication of resentment
against the occupiers, or a resurgence
of a defiant, militant nationalism
throughout the publishing field. Civil
suits against publishers in German
courts also rose sharply after monetary
reform, indicating that the industry-
wide fight for economic survival has
led to excesses in all directions.

It is impossible, even now that
almost all controls have been re-
leased, to declare that the objectives
of the American occupation have been
reached. In large measure that judg-
ment must depend upon whether or
not Germany develops a peaceful and
democratic society. The effectiveness
of the American influence on German
publishing can only be measured by
the contribution the German book
and periodical publishing industries
make to such a society.

American books, for which republica-
tion rights have been sold in Ger-
many as of Oct.1, are listed below
with their German publishers, “Publish-
ed“ means the books, with German
titles in parenthesis, have been printed.
“Purchased” means the rights have
been sold but the German editions
have not yet been issued.

: 7
1. History and Biography

Published

Binkley, Wilfried: American Political Parties
(Politisches Leben in Amerika); Limes Vig.,
Wiesbaden.

Bowers, Claude G.: Jefferson and Hamilton

(Jefferson und Hamilton); Karl H. Henssel
Vig., Berlin,

NOVEMBER 1949

Bradford, Gamaliel; Portraits of American
Women (G. Bradford erzaehlt von 8 bedeu-
tenden amerikanischen Frauen); Bernheim
Vig., Fuerth, Bavaria.

Canby, Henry Seidel: Walt Whitman, An
American (Walt Whitman); Blanvalet Vig.,
Berlin,

Chase, Mary Ellen: A Goodly Heritage (Ge-
nien der Kindheit); Manu Vlg., Augsburg.

Commager, Henry Steele, & Morison, Samuel:
Growth of the American Republic (Das Wer-
den der amerikanischen Republik); Mittel-
bach Vig., Stuttgart.

Cottler & Jaffe: Heroes of Civilization (Weg-
bereiter); Frandch’sche Verlagsanstalt, Stutt-
jart.

curti, Merle: Growth of American Thought
(Das amerikanische Geistesleben vom An-
fang bis zur Gegenwart); Klett Vlg., Stutt-

gart.
Dulles, Allan, W.: Germany's Underground
(Versthwérung in Deutschland); Scbleber

Vig., Kassel.
Grew, Joseph: Ten Years in Japan (Zehn
Jahre in Japan); Mittelbach Vig., Stuttgart.
Hansen, Marcus Lee: The Immigrant in
American History (Die Einwanderer in der

Geschichte Amerikas); Mittelbahh Vig.,
Stuttgart.
Heiman, Eduard: History of Economic Do

trines  (Volkswirtschaftliche Lehrmeinungen);
Klostermann Vlg., Frankfurt.

Hertzler, Arthur E.: The Horse and Buggy
Doctor (Der Doktor auf der LandstraBe);
Ehrenwirth Vig., Munich.

Lisitzky, Gene: Thomas Jefferson
Jefferson); Limes Vlg., Wiesbaden.

Moody, John: John Henry Newman (John
Henry Newman); Morus Vlg., Berlin.

Morison; Samuel E.: Admiral of the Ocean
Sea (Admiral des’ Weltmeeres); Dorn Vlg.,
Bremen,

Perkins, Frances: The Roosevelt I Knew
(Roosevelt, wie ich ihn kannte); Vig. Dun-
ker & Humblot, Berlin.

Perry, Ralph B.: Puritanism and Democracy
(Amerikanische Ideale) (2 Vols); Carl Vig.,
Nuremberg.

Rourke, Constance: Audubon
Metopen Vig., Wiesbaden.
Rourke, Constance: The Roots of American
Culture (Die Urspruenge der amerikanischen

Kultur); Alber Vig., Munich.

Sandburg, Carl: Abe Lincoln Grows Up (A.
Lincoln waechst auf in der Wildnis); Bam-
berger Verlagshaus Meisenbach & Co., Bam-

(Thomas

(Audubon) ;

berg.

Stettinus, E, R. Jr. Land-Lease, Weapon for
Victoriy (Welt in Abwehr, Leihpacht); List
Vig., Munich.

Turner, Frederic: The Frontier in American
History (Die Grenze); Dorn Vig., Bremen.

Van Loon, Hendrik: The Story of America
(Amerika, der Roman eines Landes); Druck-
haus Tempelhof, Berlin.

Wood, L.:; Raymond L, Ditmars (Schlangen,
seltene Tiere und Insekten: Das Forscher-

Ieben von Raymond L. Ditmars); Ohlert
Vig:, Berlin.

Woodward, W. E.: Tom Paine, America’s
Godfather (Tom Paine); Standpunkt Vig.,
Stuttgart.

Purchased

Bakeless, John: Daniel Boone; List Vig,
Munich.

Beard, Charles & Mary: America in Mid-

passage; Vlg. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Beard, Mary: Women as Force in History;
Buerger Vlg., Lorch.

Breasted, Charles: Pioneer to the Past; Hatje
Vig., Stuttgart.

Burt, Olive W.: Luther Burbank, Boy Wizard;
Bruehl[scher Vig., Giessen.

Chase, Mary Ellen: A Goodly Fellowship;
Manu Vig., Augsburg.

Clemens, Samuel (Mark Twain): Life on The
Mississippi; Kesselring'scher Vlg., Wies-
baden.

Commager & Nevins: Pocket History of the
U.LS.; Schuette Vig., Frankfurt.

Davis, Kenneth: Soldier of Democracy; Kasten
Vig., Bremen. |

Dodd, William: Woodrow Wilson and His
‘Work; Buerger Vlg., Lorch.

Elisberg, Edward: Hell on Ice; Dressler Vlg.,
Berlin.

41

Faulkner, Harold Underwood: American Politi-
cal and Social History; Brockhaus . Vig.,
Wiesbaden. ;

Finletter, Gretchen; From the Top of the
Stairs; Knauer Vig., Berlin.

Fischer, Ruh: Stalin and German Communism;
Vig. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Frank, Philipp: Einstein; List Vlg., Munich.

Gabriel, Ralph Henry: The Course of American
Democratic Thought; Vig. Dunker & Humblot,
Berlin,

Gilbert, C. M.: Nuremberg Diary; Nymphen-
burger Vlg., Munich.

Graham, Shirley: Dr. George Washington Car-
ver, Scientist; Dressler Vig., Berlin.

Hagedom, Hermann: Americans; Blanvalet
Vig., Berlin.

Hagedorn, Hermann: Prophet of the Wilder-
ness, The Story of Albert Schweitzer; Dret
Linden Vig., Berlin.

Hendrick, Burton: Bulwark of The Republic;
Nest _Vig., Nuremberg.

Holt, Packham: George Washington Carver;
List Vig., Munich.

Hook, Sidney: The Hero in History; Nest Vlg.,
Nuremberg.

Jones, Howard Mumford: A Brief History of
the U.S.; Nymphenburger Vlg., Munich.

Joy, Charles & Amold: The Africa of Albert
Schweitzer; Biederstein Vlg., Munich.

Lee, Dwight: Ten Years; Gebr. Weiss Vlg.
Berlin.

Lumpkin, K. du P.; The Making of a South-
erner, Guenther Vlg., Stuttgart.

Neumann, Siegmund: History in Perspective;
Vig. Der Greif, Wiesbaden,

Nolan, H. C.: The Story of Clara Barton of
the Red Cross; Nauck Vlg., Berlin.

Repplier, Agnes: Mére Marie of the’ Ursulines;
Herder Vig., Freiburg (South Baden),

Rogers, Stanley: It Took Courage;
Weiss Vig., Berlin.

Rourke, Constance: Davy Crockett; Bollwerk
Vig., Offenbach.

Rukeyser, Muriel: Willard Gibbs,
Genius; Gebr. Weiss Vlg., Berlin.

Schlesinger, Arthur: Age of Jackson; Deutsche
Verlagsanstalt, Stuttgart.

Schoenberger, Franz: Confessions of A Euro-
pean Intellectual; Freitag Vig., Munich,

Schwarzschild, L.: The Red Prussian; Ullstein-
Kindler Vig., Berlin.

Sherwood, Robert E.: Roosevelt and Hopkins;
Vig. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Smith, T. V.: Lincoln, Living Legend; Behrendt
Vig., Stuttgart.

Gebr.

American

Twain, Mark: Jeanne d‘Arc; Manu Vig.,
Augsburg.
Wright, Chester: Economic History of the

United States; Winter Vig., Heidelberg.
Zweig, Stefan: Sternstunden der Menschheit;
Suhrkamp Vlg., Frankfurt.

1. History. and Biography
(a) Current Affairs

Published

Bymes, James F.: Speaking Frankly (In-aller
Offenheit); Vig. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Purchased

Stechert Kurt, Wie war das moeglich?; Suhr-
kamp Vig., Frankfurt.

Stimson, Henry: On Active Service in Peace
and War; Vig. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Warburg, James P.: Germany: ‘Bridge or
Battleground; Volk & Zeit Vig., Karlsruhe.

2. Social Science
Published

Alexander, Franz: Our Age of Unreason (Irra-

tionale Kraefte unerer Zeit); Klett Vig..
Stuttgart.
Cannon, Walter B.: The Way of An In-

vestigator (Der Weg eines Forschers); Rinn
Vig., Munich.

Perry, Ralph B.: One World in The Making
(Wie wird die Welt?); Leibniz Vig., Munich.

Purchased

Adamic, Louis: From Many Lands; Bamberger
Verlagshaus Meisenbach & Co., Bamberg.

Alland, Alexander & Wise, James W.: The
Springfield Plan; Blersch Vig., Stuttgart.

Kohn, Hans: The Idea of Nationalism; Winter
Vig., Heidelberg.

Maciver, R. M.: The Web of Government;
Vig. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Mayo, Elton: Social Problems of an Industrial
Civilization; Vlg. Frankfurter Hefte, Frank-
furt.

Merriam, Charles: Systematic Politics; Bieder-
stein Vlg., Munich.

Mumford, Lewis: The Condition of Man; Vlg.
Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Mumford, Lewis: Technics and Civilization;
Vig. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Mumford, Lewis: The Culture of Cities; Vlg.
Die Neue Stadt, Frankfurt.

Mumford, Lewis: ‘City Development; Vig. Die
Neue Stadt, Frankfurt.

Sorokin, Pitirim: Social and Cultural Dynamics
(4 vols); Nymphenburger Vlg., Munich.

Sorokin, Pitirim: Crisis in Our Age; Henrich
Vig., Frankfurt.

Sorokin, Pitirim: Man and Society in Calamity;
Henrich Vig., Frankfurt.

Sorokin, Pitirim: Reconstruction of Humanity;
Henrich Vig., Frankfurt.

Sorokin, Pitirim: Society, Culture and Per-
sonality; Nymphenburger Vlg., Munich.

De Schweinitz: The Art of Helping People Out
of Trouble; Steinebach Vig., Munich.

(a) Economics
Published

Burnham, James: The Managerial Revolution
(Das Regime der Manager); Union Deutsche
Verlagsgesellschaft, Stuttgart.

Hansen, Alvin: America’s Role in the World
Economy (Die Rolle Amerikas in der Welt-
wirtschaft); Limes Vlg., Wiesbaden.

Purchased

Board, Charles: Economic Basis of Politics;
Mittelbach Vig., Stuttgart.

Chamberlin, Edward: The Theory of Mono-

polistic Competition; Alber Vig., Munich.

Hansen, Alvin: Economic Policy and Full
Employment; Gabler Vig., Wiesbaden.

Lilienthal, David: TVA Democracy on the
March; ‘List Vig., Munich,

Simons, Henry: Economic Policy for A Free
Society; Kuepper Vlg., Duesseldorf.

Walker, Ronald: From Economic Theory to
Policy; Metopen Vig., Wiesbaden.

Ward, Leo R.: Ourselves Inc.; Henrich Vig.,
Frankfurt.

(b) Democracy and Civil Rights
Published

Agar, Herbert: A Time for Greatness (Unsere
Zeit fordert Groesse); Standpunkt Vig.,
Stuttgart.

Barzun, Jacques: Of Human Freedom (Von
menschlicher Freiheit); Rinn Vlg., Munich.

Brogan, D. V.: The American Character (Der
amerikanische Charakter); Mittelbach Vlg.,
Stuttgart.

Commager, Henry Steele: Majority Rule and
Minority Rights (Die ‘Rechte der Minderheit
im Rahmen der Mehrheitsherrschaft); Limes
Vig., Wiesbaden.

Merriam, Charles: On tthe Agenda of Demo-
cracy (Neue Wege der Demokratie); Hasl-
steiner Viq., Stuttgart.

Purchased

Corwin, Edward S.: Constitutional
tion; 'Metopen Vig., Wiesbaden.
Becker, Carl: Freedom and Responsibility in
the ‘American Way of Life; Metopen Vig.,

Wiesbaden.

Becker, Carl: Modern
Vig., Wiesbaden.
Fraenkel, Osmond: Our Civil Liberties; Me

topen ‘Vig., Wiesbaden.
Perry, Ralph B.: Shall Not Perish from the
Earth; Carl Vig., Nuremberg.
Tead, Ordway: New Adventures
cracy; Vig. Der Zwoelf, Munich.
Williams, Chester: The Rights We Defend;
Blanvalet Vig., Berlin.

Williams, Chester; Liberty of the Press; Blan-
valet Vig., Berlin.

Williams, Chester: The Rights of Free Speech;
Blanvalet Vig., Berlin.

Williams, Chester: Religious
valet Vig., Berlin.

Williams, Chester: Fair Trial; Blanvalet Vig,
Berlin.

Yang, Ching: Meet the U.S.A;
Vig., Wiesbaden.

Revolu-

Democracy; Metopen

in Demo-

Liberty; Blan-

Metopen

INFORMATION BULLETIN

An official call was made on General Thomas T. Handy, C.-in-C., EUCOM,

Oct. 1 by group representing Church World Service, a voluntary agency com-
bining Protestant churches in the US operating in 29 countries. Left to right
are A. Roland Elliot, CWS Dept. for DP’s; General Handy; Fred W. Ramsey,
executive vice-president of CWS who headed visitors; Dr. Reg. Helffrich, CWS,
Barent F. Landstreet, European director, CWS DP department; Dr. Henry Koch,

CWS, and H. Carter, World Council of Churches.

(US Army photo)

(c) Psychology
Published

Robinson, James: The Mind in the Making
(Die Schule des Denkens); Vig. Druckhaus

Tempelhof, Berlin.

Purchased

Allport, Gordon W.: Personality; Klett Vig.,
Stuttgart.

Campbell, John D.: Everyday Psychiatry;
Frankfurter Vig., Frankfurt.

Dunbar, Flanders: Mind and Body; Hamme-

rich & Lesser Vig., Hamburg.
Overholser, W. & Richmond, W.: Handbook
of Psychiatry; Frankfurter’ Vig., Frankfurt.
Sheldon, William H.: Varieties of Tempera-
ment; Drei Saeulen Vig., Woerishofen.
Skinner, E. C.: Educational Psychology;
Ehrenwirth Vig., Munich.

(d) Labor .

Published

Peterson, Florence: American Labor Unions
(Amerikanische Gewerkschaften); Freitag
Vig., Munich.

Williamson, S. T. & Harris, Herbert: Trends
in Collective Bargaining (Gewerkschaften
in U.S.A.); Klostermann Vig., Frankfurt.

Purchased

Ehrmann, Henry: French Labor from Popular
Front to Liberation); Freitag Vig., Munich.

Levenstein, Aaron: Labor Today and To-
morrow; Freitag Vig., Munich.
Parker, Reginald: 290 Questions on Labor

Law; Auerdruck Vig., Hamburg.

(e) Public Communications
Published

Hutchins, Robert: A Free and Responsible
Press (Eine Freie und Verantwortliche
Presse); Nest Vig., Nuremberg.

White, L. & Leigh, Robert: Peoples Speaking
to Peoples (Voelker sprechen zu Voelkern);
Nest Vig., Nuremberg.

Purchased

Chafee, Z. Jr.: Government and Mass Com-
munications (2 Vols); Nest Vig., Nuremberg.

42

Hocking, William E.: Freedom of the Press;
Nest Vig., Nuremberg.

Inglis, Ruth: Freedom of the Movies;
Vig., Nuremberg.

The New York Times: The Newspaper, Its
Making and Its Meaning; Vig. Frankfurter
Hefte, Frankfurt.

White, ‘Llewlyn: The American Radio;
Vig., Nuremberg.

(£) Anthropology
Published
Benedict, Ruth: Race, Science and Politics
(Die Rassenfrage); Mueller & Kiepenheuer
Vig., Bergen (Bavaria).
Mead, Margaret: And Keep Your Powder Dry

Nest

Nest

(Und haltet euer Pulver trocken); Desch
Vig., Munich.

Purchased

Benedict, Ruth: Patterns of Culture; Schroe-
der Vig., Stuttgart.

Boas, Franz: Mind of Primitive Man; Aufbau
Vig., Berlin.

Howells, Wiliam: Mankind So Far; Lux

Vig., Murnau.

Keith, Agnes: Land Below The Wind; Ortlieb
Vig., Wiesbaden.

Linton, Ralph (ed): The Science of Man in
the World Crisis; Nymphenburger Vig.,
Munich.

Mead, Margaret: Coming of Age in Samoa;
Desch Vig., Munich.

Weidenreich, Franz; Apes, Giants and Men;
Lux Vig., Murnau.

(g) Law
Published
Cardozo, Benjamin: The Growth of the Law
(Lebendiges Recht); Biederstein Vig., Munich.
Pound, Roscoe: The Spirit of the Common
Law (Der Geist des Gemeinen Rechts);
Bachmair Vig., Starnberg.

Purchased

Curtis, Charles P.: Lions under the Throne;
Duncker & Humblot, Berlin.

Frankfurter, Felix: Mr. Justice Holmes and
the Supreme Court; Deutsche Verlags-
anstalt, Stuttgart.

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 50 ---
Holmes, Oliver W.: The
Duncker & Humblot, Berlin.

McGuire, Paul: Experiment in World Order;
Vig. Frankfurter Hefte, Frankfurt.

Seagle, William: The Quest for Law; Bieder-
stein Vig., Munich,

3. Education

Published

Craig, G. S.: Science in Childhood Educa-
tion (Die Naturwissenschait bei der Er-
ziehung des Kindes); Mundus Vig., Stutt-
gart.

De Boer, James: Design for Elementary Edu-
cation (Erziehung in der Grundschule);
Ehrenwirth Vig., Munich,

Hutchins, Robert: The Higher Learning in
America (Die’ Hochschulbildung in Ame-
rika); Klett Vig., Stuttgart.

Purchased

Barzun, Jacques: Teacher in America; Wein-
meyer Vig., Munich.

Chisholm, L. L.: Guiding Youth. in the Mo-
dern Secondary School; Weinmeyer Vig.,
Munich.

Educational Policies Commission: Education
for Ail American Youth; Education and
Economic Weéll-Being in Amefican Demo-
cracy; Federal State Relations in Educa-
tion; Learning the Ways of Democrac
Purposes of Education in American Demo-
cracy; Structure and Administration of
Education in American Democracy (To be

Common Law;

printed and extracted in one volume);
‘Weinmeyer Vig., Munich.
Educational Policies Commission; Education

for All American Youth; Klett Vig., Stutt-

gart.
Harvard Committee: General Education in a

Free Society; Klett Vig., Stuttgart.
Hook, Sidney: Education for Modern Man;
Hirschgraben Vig., Frankfurt.
Jones, Howard M.: Education and World
Tragedy; Nymphenburger Vig., Munich.
Leigh, Robert: Group Leadership; Freitag
Vig., Munich
Lilge, Frederik: The Abuse of Learning;

Lambert-Schneider Vg., Heidelberg.

Maritain, Jacques: Education at the Cross-
toads; Naumann Vig., Munich.

Meiklejohn, Alex.; Education between Two
Worlds; Leibniz Vig., Munich.

Peterson, Houston: Great Teachers; Bollwerk
Vig., Offenbach.

Powell, John; School for Americans; Leibniz
‘Vig., Munich.

Pratt, Caroline: I Learn From Children; Her-
rose Vlg., Wiesbaden.

Schneidemann: Democratic Education in Prac-
tice; Bollwerk Vig., Offenbach.

Sige! Henry: The University at the
Crossroads; Huebener Vig., Berlin.

Whitehead, A. N.: The Aims of Education;
Standpunkt Vig., Stuttgart.

4, Children and Youth

Published

Bamard, Floy: Bible Friends to Know (Fuer
kleine Bibelfreunde); Oncken Vig., Stutt-

gart.

Benton, Jesse J.: Cow by the Tail (Cowboy-
melodie); Limes Vlg., Wiesbaden.

Corey, Paul: Five Acre Hill (Der
Morgen-Huegel); Meyer Vig., Bremen.

Estes, Eleanor: The Moffats (Moffats Kinder);
Herold Vig., Stuttgart.

Forbes, Esther: Johnny Tremain
Tremain); Truejen Vig., Bremen.

Freemann, Ira: Fun with Chemistry (Chemie
ganz einfach); Francch'scher Vlg., Stuttgart.

Freemann, Ira: Fun with Science (Physik
ganz einfach); Francch'scher Verlag, Stutt-
gart.

Hayes, Florence: Eskimo Hunter (Der Eskimo-
jaeger); Gebr. Weiss Vig., Berlin.

Henry, Marg. & Dennis: Benjamin West and
His Cat Grimalkin (Benjamin West und
sein Kater Grimalkin); Pattlohh Vig.,
Aschaffenburg.

Kelly, Fred C.: The Wright Brothers (Die
Gebrueder Wright:; Gnamm Vig., Stuttgart.

Meader, Stephen: Red Horse Hill (Alle Ach-
tung, kleiner Bud); Droemersche Verlags-
anstalt, Wiesentheid (Bavaria),

Fuenf-

(Johnny

NOVEMBER 1949

Meigs, Cornelia: Invincible Louisa (Louisa
laeBt sich nicht unterkriegen); Bernheim
Vig., Fuerth.

Millen, Nina: Children's Games from Many

Lands (Kinderspiele aus aller Welt); Frei-
tag Vig., Munich.

Pease, Josephine: This is the World (Das
ist did Welt); Stritzinger Vig., Frankfurt.
Sperry, Armstrong: Call It Courage (Mut,
Mafatul); Linde Vlg., Berlin.

Wilder, Laura Iv: The Long Winter (Der
lange Winter); Guenther Vig., Stuttgart.

Purchased

Amidon & Bradbury: Learning to Care for
Children; Herrose Vlg., Wiesbaden.

Atwater, .Richard & Florence: Mr.
Panguins; Holz Vig., Berlin. a

Becker,' M. L.: Under Twenty; Ullstein-Kind-
ler Vig., Berlin.
Enright, lizabeth:
Vig., Wiesbaden.

Estes, Eleanor: The Middle Moffats; Henold
Vig., Stuttgart.

Gollumb, Joseph: Tiger At City High; Meyer
Vig., Bremen.

Goslin, MyWlis & Omar: Democracy; Bruecken
Vig., Frankfurt.

Harrison, George R.: Work;
Holz Vig., Berli

Havighurst, Walter
Brocchaus Vig., Wiesbaden.

Heard, S. D. & King, M.: Stories of Ame-
rican Leaders; Webels Vig., Duesseldorf.
Hening, Viola: Fun With Scraps; Mallin
Vig., Berlin.

Huey, E. G.: What Makes The Wheels Go
Round; Stuttgarter Vig. K.G., Stuttgart.
Jacobs, Emma A.: The Secret Spring; Kessel-

ring’sche Verlagsanst., Wiesbaden.
Jagendorf M.: Penny Puppets, Penny Theater
and Penny Plays; Gnamm Vig., Stuttgart.
Johannsen, Margaret: Hawk of Hawk Clan;
Standpunkt Vig., Stuttgart.

Popper's

The Saturdays; Ortlieb

How Things

The Long Ships Passing;

Loaf, Munroe: Fair Play; Stritzinger Vig.,
Frankfurt.

McNichols, G. L.: Crazy Weather; Mayer
Vig., Stuttgart.

Pyne, Mable: The Little Geography of the

United States; Kesselring’sche Verlagsanst.,
Wiesbaden.

Rogers, F. & Beard, A.: Jeremy Pepper; Ort-
lieb ‘Vig., Wiesbaden.

Seredy, Kate: The Good Master;
ring'sche Verlagsanst., Wiesbaden. ;

Skilling, W. T.: Sun, Moon and Stars; Union
Deutsche Verlagsges., Stuttgart. ;

Stong, Phil: Honk The Moose; Gebr. Weiss,
Berlin.

Thurber, James: Many Moons; Union Deutsche
Vig., Stuttgart. ;

Tompkins, W. M.: and Their
Voyage Around Cape Horn; Weiss
Vig., Berlin.

Tousney, Sanford: Cowboy Tommy;
Vig., Stuttgart.

Weldon, Martin: The Lion for President;
Stitzinger Vig., Frankfurt.

Wilder, Laura IL; The Happy Golden Years;
Guenther Vig., Stuttgart.

Wire, Harold Channing: North To The Pro-
mised Land; Stroh Vig., Wiesbaden.

5. Philosophy and Religion

Published

Becker, Carl: The Heavenly City of the
18th Century Philosophers (Der Gottesstaat
der Philosophen); Vig. Ferdinand Schoe-
ningh, Wuerzburg. .

Du Nouy, Lecomte: Human Destiny (Die Be-
stimmung des Menschen); Union Deutsche
Verlagsgeselischaft, Stuttgart.

James, Williams: Essays on Faith and Morals
(Essays ueber Glaube. und Ethik); Bertels-
mann Vig., Guetersloh.

Kessel-

Two Sailors
Gebr.

Gnammt

Liebman, Joshum: Peace of Mind (Mach
Frieden mit Dir); Ulistein-Kindler Vlg.,
Berlin.

Niebuhr, Reinhold: Beyond Tragedy (Jen-

seits der Tragoedie); Kaiser Vig., Munich.
Niebuhr, Reinhold: Children of Light and
Children of Darkness (Kinder des Lichts
und Kinder der Finsternis); Kaiser Vlg.,
Munich. ;
Niebuhr, Reinhold: Discerning the Signs of
the Times (Die Zeichen der Zeit); Kaiser
Vig. Munich.

43

Purchased

Cheney, Sheldon: Men Who Have Walked
with God; Limes Vlg., Wiesbaden.

Comfort, William: Just among
Christl. Zeitschriften-Vig., Berlin.

Du Nouy, Lecomte: The’ Road to Reason;
Union Deutsche Verlagsges., Stuttgart.

Edman, Irwin: Philosopher's Quest; Metopen
Vig., Wiesbaden.

Emerson, Ralph W.: Heart of Emerson's
Journals; Kroener Vig., Stuttgart.

Frank, Eric: Religious Truth and Philoso-
phical Understanding; Klett “Vig., Stuttgart.

Hocking, W. E.: Preface to Philosophy;
Nymphenburger Vig., Munich.

Hocking, W. E.: What Man Can Make of
Man; Nymphenburger Vig., Munich.

Jones, Howard M.: Ideas in America; Nym-
phenburger Vig., Munich.

Lindsay, A. D.: Religion, Science and So-
ciety in the Modern ‘World; Nymphen-
burger Vig., Munich.

Maritain, Jacques: Christianity and Demo-
cracy; Naumann Vig., Augsburg

Maritain, Jacques: Rights of Man and Na-
tural Law; Naumann Vig, Augsburg

Niebuhr, Reinhold: Nature and Destiny;
Kaiser Vig, Munich,

Niebuhr, Reinhold: Christianity and Power
Politics; Kaiser Vlg., Munich.

Sheen, Fulton: Communism and The Con-
science of the West: Morus Vlg., Berlin.
Thoreau, H. D.: Walden; Alber Vig., Munich.
Trueblood, Elton: The Predicament of Mo-

Friends;

der Man; Buerger Vlg., Lorch.
Trueblood, Elton: Foundations for Recon-
struction; Buerger Vlg., Lorch.

Van Doren, Carl: American Scriptures; ‘Beh-
rendt Vlg., Stuttgart.
Wach, Joachim: Sociology of Religion; J. C.
Mohr Vig., Tuebingen.
6. Fiction, Poetry, Drama

Published

Baker, Louise: Out On a Limb (Auf einem

Bein); Droemersche Verlagsanst., Wiesent-
heid.
Benet, Stephen: Twenty-five Short Stories

(Daniel Webster und die
Piper Vig., Munich,

Borland, Hal: An American Year (Die Jahres-
runde); Walter Rau Vig., Dietmannsried.

Burt, Struthers: Powder River (Der Pulver-
fluB); Badenia Vig., Karlsruhe.

Carrol, Gladys: As the Earth Turns (Heimat
im Norden); ODroemersche  Verlagsanst.,
Wiesentheid.

Cather, Willa: O Pioneers (Zwei
Truejen Vig., Bremen.

Chase, Mary E.: Mary Peters (Mary Peters);
Manu Vig., Augsburg.

Cleaveland, Agnes M.: No Life for a Lady
(Im Land der Offenen Weiden); Manu Vig.,
Augsburg.

Cozzons, James G.; The Just and the Unjust
(Die Gerechten und die Ungerechten); Limes
Vig., Wiesbaden.

Eckstein, Gustav: Lives (Ich sehe das Leben);
Franckh’sche Verlagsanst., Stuttgart.

Field, Rachel: Time Out of Mind (Seit
Menschengedenken); Blanvalet Vig., Berlin.

Seeschlange);

Frauen);

.Fisher, Dorothy: The Bent Twig (Die schwin-

gende Saite);

Forbes, Kathryn:
(Mama's Bankkonto);
Berlin. .

Glasgow, Ellen: Vein of Iron (Die eiserne
Ader); Vig. Der Greif, Wiesbaden.

Hathaway, Katharine: The Little Locksmith

Vig. Der Greif, Wiesbaden.
Mama’s Bank Account
Ulistein-Kindler Vlg.,

(Das Haus in Castino); Ulistein-Kindler
Vig., Berlin.

Koestler, Arthur: Darkness at Noon (Sonnen-
finsternis); Behrendt Vlg., Stuttgart.

Lane, Rose W.: Let the Hurricane Roar (Lasst
den Sturm nur heulen); Vig. Der Greif,

Wiesbaden.
Mann, Thomas: Dr. Faustus (Dr. Faustus);
Suhrkamp Vig., Frankfurt.

Maxwell, William: The Folded Loaf (Junges
Blatt am Baum); Blanvalet Vig., Berlin.
Nathan, Robert: One More Spring (Fruehling
wird es wieder); Rowohlt Vig., Stuttgart.
Nathan, Robert. The Bishop's Wife (Die Frau

des Bischofs); Rowohlt Vig., Stuttgart.

©. Henry: Memorial Award Prize Stories
of 1946 (Junges Amerika); Ullstein-Kindler
Vig., Berlin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Richter, Conrad: The Fields—The Trees (Das
Maedchen Sayward); Walter Rau Vig., Diet-
mannsried.

Sandburg, Carl: Selected Poems (Guten Mor-
gen, Amerika); Herbig Vig., Berlin-Grune-
wald.

Saroyan, William: The Daring Young Man on
the Flying Trapeze (Der waghalsige junge
Mann auf dem fliegenden Trapez); Dr.
Barbier Vig., Frankfurt.

Spence, Hartzell: One Foot in Heaven (Mit
einem Fu8 im Himmel); Storm Vig.,
Bremen.

Thurber, James: The Thurber Carnical (Rette
sich, wer kann!); Rowohlt Vig., Stuttgart.

Waln, Nora: Reaching for the Stars (Der
Griff nach den Sternen); Guenther Vig.,
Stuttgart.

Werfel, Franz: Song of Bernadette (Das Lied
von Bernadette); Suhrkamp Vlg., Frankfurt.

Wharton, Edith: Ethan Prome (Die Schilitten-
fahrt); Herbig Vlg., Berlin.

White, W. L.: Journey for Margaret (Ich
adoptiere Margaret); Ullstein-Kindler Vg.,
Berlin.

Zweig, Stefan: Die Welt von Gestern (Trans:
The World of Yesterday); Suhrkamp VI;
Frankfurt.

Purchased

Alcott, Louisa: Joe’s Boys; Bernheim Vlg.,
Fuerth.

Averill, Gerald: Ridge Runner; Gebr. Weiss
Vig., Berlin.

Blair, Walter: Tall Tale America; Truejen
Vig., Bremen.

Blunden, G.: The Room on the Route; Arani
Vig., Berlin.

Burman, Ben L.: Big River to Cross; Blanvalet
Vig., Berlin.

Burman, Ben L.: Rooster Crows for Day; Blan-
valet Vig., Berlin.

Colver, Alice Ross: Joan Foster, Freshman;
Linde Vlg., Berlin,

Colver, Alice Ross: Joan Foster, Sophomore;
Linde Vig., Berlin,

Crane, Stephen: The Red Badge of Courage;
Desch Vig., Munich,

Day, Clarence: The Best of Clarence Day;
Rowohlt Vig., Stuttgart.

Eaton, Evelyne: Quietly My Captain Waits;
Ullstein-Kindler Vig., Berlin.

Erdmann, Loula G.: Lonely Passage; Main-
drudc Vig. Dr. Oppheimer, Frankfurt.
Field, Rachel: And How Tomorrow; Blanvalet

Vig., Berlin.

Forbes, Esther: Paradise; Drei Saeulen Vig.,
Woerishofen.

Forbes, Kathryn: Transfer Point; Ullstein-
Kindler Vlg., Berlin.

Garland, Hamlin: A Son of the Middle Bor-
der; Truejen Vig., Bremen.
Glasgow, Ellen: The Romantic
Mayer Vig., Stuttgart.

Greene, Josiah; Not in Our Stars; Vlg. Der
Greif, Wiesbaden.

Hanna, A. S.: A Prince in Their Midst; Dulk
Vig., Hamburg.

Hathaway, B.: Writers for Tomorrow; UIl-
stein-Kindler Vig., Berlin.

Hawthorne, Hildegard: Westward the Course;
Sebaldus Vig., Nuremberg.

Comedians;

Hawthorne, Nathaniel: House of Seven
Gables; Alber Vlg., Munich.
Hemingway, Ernest: For Whom The Bell

Tolls; Suhrkamp Vlg., Frankfurt.

Krause, Herbert: The Tresher; Volksverband
der Biicherfreunde, Berlin.

Lincoln, Victoria: February Hill; Drei Eulen
Vig., Duesseldorf.

Lion, Hortense: The Grass
Kreuz Vig., Stuttgart.

Mann, Thomas: Ausgewaehlte Erzachlungen;
Suhrkamp Vlg., Frankfurt.

Mann, Thomas: Joseph der Ernaehrer; Suhr-
kamp Vlg., Frankfurt.

Maxwell, William: Time Will Darken It;
Blanvalet Vig., Berlin.

Marks, Percy: A Tree Grown Straight; Gebr.
Weiss Vig., Berlin.

de la Roche, Mazo: Quebec; Schaffrath Vlg.,

Grows Green;

Cologne.

McCrackon, Harold: Tough; Bulldog in the
Arctic; Nest Vig., Nuremberg.

McFee, William: In the First Watch; Toth
Vig., Hamburg. :

Nathan, Robert: There is Another Heaven;
Rowohlt Vig., Stuttgart.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Niggli, Josephine: Mexican Village; Blan-
valet Vig., Berlin.

Parsons, Ev: An Afternoon; Wolff Vig.,
Flensburg.

Porter, Katherine A.: Flowering Judas; Ul-

stein-Kindler Vig., Berlin,

Porter, Katharine A.: The Leaning Tower and
Other Stories; Ulistein-Kindler Vig., Berlin.

Porter, Katharine A.: Pale Horse, Pale
Rider; Desch Vig., Munich. _

Richter, Conrad: Early Americana and Other
Stories; Walter Rau Vig., Dietmannsried.
Saroyan, William: Human Comedy; Suhr-

kamp ‘Vig., Frankfurt.
Saroyan, William: My Heart's in the High-
lands; Suhrkamp Vig., Frankfurt.

Saroyan, William: Time’ of Your Life; Suhr-
kamp ‘'Vig., Frankfurt.
Saroyan, William: ‘The
Pontes Vig., Stuttgart.

Saroyan Special;

Sarton, M.: The Bridge of Years; Ulistein-
Kindler Vig., Berlin.

Schnigler, Arthur: Erzahlungen; Suhrkamp
‘Vig., Frankfurt.

Schuster, Lincoln: A Treasury of The

World's Great Letters; Guenther Vlg., Stutt-

gart.
Stewart, George: Storm; Dructhaus Tempel-
hof, Berlin,

Turnbull, A.: Day Must Dawn; Miiller Vig.,
Karlsruhe.

von Hoffmannsthal, H.:
kamp Vlg., Frankfurt.

Walker, Mildred: Winter
Vig.,| Kassel.

Wedhsberg, Joseph: Looking for A Bluebird;
Mittelbach Vig., Stuttgart.

White, E. B.: One Man's Meat; Weissmann
Vig., Munich.

Wolfe, Thomas: Letters to His Mother; Nym-
phenburger Vig., Munich.

Wolfe, Thomas: You Can't Go Home Again;
Rowohlt Vig., Stuttgart.

Woollcott, Alexander; While Rome Burns;
Volk & Zeit Vig., Karlsruhe.

Yates, Haydie: Seventy Miles from A Lemon;
Gebr. Weiss Vlg., Berlin.

Young, Stark: So Red the Rose; Stahlberg
Vig., Karlsruhe.

Zweig, Arnold: The Axe of Wandsbek; Drei
Saeulen Vig., Woerishofen.

Erzaehlungen; Suhr-

Wheat; Schleber

7. Literary Criticism

Published

Beach, Joseph W.: American Fiction (Amerika-
nische Prosadichtung); Pattloch == -Vig.,
Aschaffenburg.

Brooks, Van Wyck: The World of Washington
Irving (Das Erwachen Amerikas); Piper
Vig., Munich.

Brooks, Van Wycc: The Flowering of New

England (Die Bluete Neu-Englands); Piper
Vig., Munich,

Matthiessen, F, C.: American Renaissance
(Amerikanische Renaissance); | Metopen
Vig., Wiesbaden.

Purchased

Brooks, Van Wyck: New England Indian Sum-
Metopen Vig., Wiesbaden.
Norman: The Good Inheritance;

Aegis Vig. Ulm.
Gray, James: On Second Thought; Desch
Vig., Munich.

Kazin, Alfred: On Native Grounds; Alber
Vig., Munich.

Snell, George: The Shapers of American
Fiction; Blanvalet Vig., Berlin.

Vogt, William: The Road to Survival; Nest
Vig., Nuremberg.

Wilson, Edmund: Axel’s Castle; Stahlberg
Vig., Karlsruhe.

8. Science and Applied

. Science
Published

Binger, Carl: The Doctor's Job (Der Arzt
und ‘sein Patient); Klett Vig., Stuttgart.
The Control of Communicable Diseases (Die
Bekaempfung der _Infektionskrankheiten) ;

Georg Thieme Vlg., Stuttgart.

Deering, Ferdie: USDA-Manager of American
Agriculture (USDA Das — Landwirtschafts-
ministerium der Vereinigten Staaten von

44

Nordamerika); Eugen Ulmer Vlg., Ludwigs-
burg.

Flexner, Simon: William Henry Welch and
The Heroic Age of American Medicine
(William Henry Welch und das _heroische
Zeitalter der amerikanischen Medizin);
Thieme Vig., Stuttgart.

German, W. D.: Doctor Anonymous (Aerzte
im Hintergrund); Drei Saeulen Vlg., Woeris-
hofen.

Hylander, Clarence: American
(Amerikanische  Erfinder);
Munich.

Mock, Elizabeth: Built in U.S.A. (In_den
U.S.A. gebaut 1932—1944); Metopen Vlg.,
Wiesbaden.

Zinsser, Hans: Rats, Lice and History (Ratten,

Inventors
Hanser Vig.,

Laeuse und Weltgeschichte); Hatje Vig.,
Stuttgart.

Purchased

Avery, George S.: Hormones and Horti-
culture; Siebeneicher Vlg., .Berlin.

Bailey, Percival: Intracranial Tumors; Enke
Vig., Stuttgart.

Bernheim, B. M.: The Surgeon's Domain;

Ehrenwirth Vig., Munich. :

Cable, E. J., Science in A Changing World;
Vig. Druckhaus Tempelhof, Berlin,

Conant, James B.: On Understanding Science;
Gebr. Weiss Vj Berlin,

Crevecoeur, Hector: Letters from An Ame-
rican Farmer; Parey Vig., Berlin.

Dubois, J. H.: Plastics; Enke Vlg., Stuttgart.

Dunlap, Orrin E.: Radio’s 100 Men of Science;
Vig. Druckhaus Tempelhof, Berlin.

Eckstein, Gustav: Everyday Miradle; Frandh'-
sche Verlagsanstalt, Stuttgart.

Faulkner, Edward: A Second Look; Webeis
Vig., Essen-Steele.

Faulkner, Edward: Plowman's Folly; Webels
Vig., Essen-Steele.

Fischer, Martin H.: Death and Dentistry;
Steinkopf Vig., Frankfurt.

Freeman & Watts: Psychosurgery;
schattliche Verlagsanst., Stuttgart.

Joans, Sir James: The Mysterious Universe;
Vig. Druckhaus Tempelhof, Berlin.

Kelmer, John A.: Penicillin Therapy; Georg
Thieme Vig., Stuttgart.

Wissen-

Lydenberg, Henry M. & Archer, John: The
Care and Repair of Books; Kasten Vig.,
Bremen.

Prescott & Dunn: Industrial Microbiology;
Steinkopf Vl Frankfurt.

Sigerist, Henry: Civilization and Diseases;
Bonaschewski Vlg., Woerishofen.

Waring, P. A.: Roots in the Earth; Sieben-
eicher Vig., Berlin.

White, Ann Terry: Lost Worlds, The Ro-
mance of Archeology; Hatje Vig., Stuttgart.

Young, Helen: Essentials of Nursing; Enke

Vig., Stuttgart.
9. Arts
Published

Copland, Aaron: Our New Music (Uasere
Neue Musik); Kasparek Vig., Munich.

Flexner, James Th.: America’s Old Masters
(Die ersten Kuenstler der Neuen Welt);
Gebr. Mann Vig., Berlin.

Garwood, Darrell: Artist in Iowa (Ein Kuenst-
Jer im mittleren Westen); Buerger Vig.,
Lorch.

Lang, Paul Henry: Music in Western Civili-
zation (2 Vols) (Die Musik im Abendland);
Manu Vig., Augsburg.

Taylor, Deems: The Wel-Tempered Listener
(Der wohltemperierte Zuhoerer); Heimeran
Vig., Munich,

Weinstock, Herbert: Tschaikovsky  (Tschai-

kowsky); Winkler Vig., Coburg.
Purchased

Adams, Henry: Mont Saint Michel and Char-
tres; Blanvalet -Vig., Berlin.

Copland, Aaron: What to Listen for in Music;
Kasparek Vlg., Munich.

Ewen, David: Music for the Millions; Stand-
punkt Vig., Stuttgart.

Meliquist, Jerome: The Emergence of an
American Art; Gebr. Mann Vig., Berlin.
Thomson, Virgil: The Musical Scene; Kaspa-
rek Vlg., Munich.
Weinstock, Herbert:

Coburg.
Wright, Frank. Lloyd: When Democracy
Builds; Gebr. Mann Vlg., Berlin,

Haendel; Winkler Vig.,

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 52 ---
Official Communiques.

East Zone Regime

Text of the Allied High Commission press
release, dated Oct. 10, follows:

The establishment in the Soviet Zone of a
so-called ‘‘Government of the People’s Re-
public of Germany’’ has caused no surprise
in Allied High Commission circles. The Soviets
are obviously disturbed by the attraction
exerted in Eastern Germany by the Federal
Government.

The Soviet note accusing the Western Powers
of violating their agreements concerning Ger-
many clearly indicated the imminence of the
present events. It is superfluous to recall
the terms of the reply of the Governments of
the United States, the United Kingdom, and of
France to this Soviet note.

Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that
the Western Allies strove for many months to
reach an agreement with the USSR on a
common policy to be applied to Germany as
a whole. It was owing to the Soviet refusal
to cooperate that these efforts failed. As the
recovery of Germany could be no longer
delayed, the Western. Allies were compelled
to take the decisions which permitted the
establishment of the Federal German Govern-
ment.

The Federal German Republic springs from
the German people. It is based on the funda-
mental principles of democracy. A representa-
tive assembly prepared the basic law.
Elections were held on August 13, 1949, The
federal institutions, one after the other, have
assumed their functions ‘according to the pro-
cedure laid down by the Germans them-
selves.

The people of Western Germany have
clearly demonstrated at the elections that they
appreciated at their true worth the liberties
that they have recovered.

The so-called Government of the German
Democratic Republic is the artificial creation
of a “popular assembly" which had no man-
date for this purpose. The chamber which
set itself up without any consultation of the
popular will at once decided to postpone the
elections for a year. The intention of this
postponement is evidently to insure that the
elections when they are held shall follow the
Pattern already set in other satellite states.

This so-called government, which is devoid
of any legal basis, and has determined to
evade an appeal to the electorate, has no
title to represent Eastern Germany. It has an
even smaller claim to speak in the name of
Germany as a whole. The events which have
taken place in the East will not modify the
attitude of the Western Powers.

The Foreign Ministers declared at the close
of the Washington Conference that ‘a major
objective of the three Allied Governments was
to encourage and facilitate the closest integra-
tion, on a mutally beneficial basis, of the
German people under a democratic federal
state within the framework of a European
association.”

The High Commission will continue to be
guided by this principle. It will encourage
the development of the young German de-
mocracy and is conscious of the responsibilities
which this implies. The people of the Western
Sectors of Berlin may rest assured that the
Allied Powers will continue to fulfill their
mission in the former capital and that, as in
the past, all steps will be taken in  colla-
boraticn with the federal government to
ensure to the inhabitants of Berlin a life of
political and economic freedom.

Decision of the Allied High Com-
mission on the Revaluation of the
Deutsche Mark
The Council of the Allied High Commis-

sion decides as follows:
I .

The Allied High Commission does not inter-
Pose any objection to the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany establishing a
conversion value for the Deutsche mark in
terms of United States dollars at the rate of
0.238 United States dollar per Deutsche mark.

NOVEMBER 1949

pig

The High Commission recognizes that any
discriminatory practices and dumping which
may exist must be eliminated and measures
must be taken looking toward the elimination of
any subsidies, direct or indirect, granted in
order to support such discriminatory prac-
tices and dumping.

This should be accomplished by January 1,
1950.

The High Commission orders that an inquiry
be undertaken immediately to determine the
measures required to implement that policy.

bai

Pending the result of the inquiry ordered
by the High Commission on discriminatory
trade practices, action will be taken within
seven days to insure hat the interests of coal
importing countries are not prejudiced by
the present revaluation of the Deutsche mark.

This may be achieved by

(a) maintaining the same price in Deutsche
marks for export coal as before the present
revaluation; or .

(b) adjusting the export and/or the internal
prices of coal so as to insure that the differ-
ential between the two is not wider than
before the present revaluation. ;

The government of the Federal Republic of
Germany is to submit to the High Commis-
sion measures to implement the foregoing.

Done at Bonn, Petersberg, Sept. 28, 1949.

Allied High Commission

The second meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Oct. 6
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Mr. John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner (Chair-
man) General Sir Brian H. Robertson, UK
High Commissioner, and M. Armand Berard,
French Deputy High Commissioner, were
present. *

The Council approved the German proposals
with respect to adjustments in the export
prices of coal and coal products for the
interim period from Sept. 19, 1949, to the
end of the year. The overall effect of the
adjustment reflects approximately the re-
valuation of the Deutsche mark. A study of
the effects of this adjustment will be con-
tinued during the final quarter of the year
with a view to putting into effect any further
adjustments which may be found necessary,
as of Jan. 1, 1950.

‘A German’ proposal to establish a tourist
information office in New York to promote
travel by Americans to Germany was
approved by the Council. The tourist_office
will be staffed initially by two German
representatives experienced in tourist matters
who will be able to give full information on
travel in Germany and will circulate publicity
material among interested American agencies.
Special efforts are to be made to build up
interest in next year's Passion Play in Ober.
ammergau, the ‘Bayreuth Festival and the
commemoration of the 200th anniversary of
Bach's death.

The cost of maintaining the agency,
between $3,000 and $4,000 per month, is to
be charged to the Foreign Currency Budget
for Tourist Trade established by the German
Department of Economics.

The Council decided that the activities of
United Nations organizations and specialized
agencies within the territory of the Federal
Republic of Germany would continue to be
carried out in accordance with agreements
previously signed by the Commanders-
in-Chief, new agreements or amendments
to existing agreements will be decided
upon by the High Commission unless
it decides that the matter involves re-
sponsibilities to be taken on a unilateral
basis by each of the High Commissioners.
Activities of representatives of such organiza-
tions will be subject to control by the Allied
High Commission.

Meeting. with Chancellor

The Allied High Commission met Oct. 14
with Chancellor Adenauer at the Allied Com-
mission Headquarters at Petersberg. The
meeting was held to discuss a number of
current problems facing the Commission and
the Federal Republic.

45

‘as'to bag limits and

This meeting is the first of a series of such
meetings between the Commission and the
chancellor at which an exchange of views can
be effected on an informal basis,

Laws and Regulations

Registration of Steel Group

With a view to insuring that the members
of the Steel Trustee Association established
in accordance with Military Government Law
No. 75 have the necessary powers to carry
out the provisions of Law 75 in conformity
with existing German Law, the UK and US
Military Governments have promulgated Regu-
lation No. 2, the text of which is given below.

Regulation No.2 provides the Steel Trustee
Association with a legal personality and
directs that the association be registered as
such in the Commercial Register.

Regulation No.2 Pursuant to Military Goy-
ernment Law No. 75.

Whereas Article 6 of Military Government
Law No. 75 provides that Military Government
may from time to time issue regulations and
orders in implementation or amplification of
that Law.

Now therefore Military Government hereby
orders as follows:

1. (a) The Steel Trustee Association shall
be a legal person according to German Law.

(b) The Steel Trustee Association shall have
its registered office in Duesseldorf, and shall
be registered in the Commercial Register. The
registration shall be free of charge.

(c) The Steel Trustee Association shall be
a non-profit-making undertaking.

2, The Steel Trustee Association shall be
responsible directly to the Combined Steel
Group for carrying out the tasks allotted to
it under Law 75.

3. The Steel Trustee Association shail,
subject to the approval of the Combined Steel
Group, appoint a managing committee of three
or more from among its members, any two of
whom, acting jointly, shall be the legal
representatives of the Steel Trustee Asso-
ciation within the meaning of German Law.

4, This regulation shall become effective on
Sept. 15, 1949.

Hunting Ordinance

A_new ordinance has been promulgated
by HICOG controlling hunting and fishing
in the US Zone by all persons serving with
or accredited to the US, UK and French
occupation forces and their dependents, the
Office of General Counsel, HICOG, an-
nounced, ‘

Known as HICOG Ordinance No. 1, which
became effective Oct. 14, it provides that
no person subject to the ordinance shall
engage in hunting or fishing except under
the following . conditions:

1, All persons 16 years of age or over
shall have a valid hunting license, and those
under that age shall be accompanied by a
person with a valid license.

2, They must abide by applicable legislation

seasons issued by
competent authorities; boar and deer may be
hunted only by licensed parties in accordance
with regulations issued by HICOG or,
EUCOM; game, other than boar, may be
hunted only in daylight; and no’ “trapping,
snaring, baiting, shining (using lights) or
poisoning game animals and birds" will be
allowed.

3. Such persons may use only hand-
operated rifles or shotguns or semi-automatic
shotguns, and sporting ammunition (excluding
full-jacketed, armor-piercing and tracer am-
munition), ‘and such weapons must be
registered in accordance with EUCOM
regulations.

4. No. hunting will be permitted within
three kilometers (1.8 miles) of a US Zone
boundary, the other side of which is patrolled
by any United Nation, with the exception
of the Rhine river where hunting with shot-
guns and in parties organized under HICOG
or EUCOM instructions will be permitted.

5. Fishing will be allowed only for persons
with valid licenses, and in accordance with

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
applicable legislation as to seasons and
creel limits issued by competent authorities.

6. Fishing will not be permitted in areas
posted by HICOG or competent military
authorities as restricted, and taking fish by
using explosives, nets or poison is prohibited.

The ordinance also provides that any
person convicted of violating any of its
provisions shall be liable to imprisonment
not exceeding six months or to a fine not
exceeding $500 or both. In the event of an
inconsistency, Ordinance No. 1 shall prevail
over any other legislation.

At the same time, HICOG issued Regulation
No.1 pursuant to the hunting and fishing
ordinance which established the following
procedure for obtaining hunting and fishing
licenses by the subject personnel:

US resident officers will issue annual
fishing licenses on presentation of a receipt
showing payment of $1 to an office of the
Deutsche Post. Prior to April 1, 1950 they
will issue annual jhunting licenses upon
application and with no charge. After
March 31, 1950, a receipt from a Deutsche Post
office showing payment of $3 will be
required before issuing annual hunting
licenses. US resident officers will. issue
hunting party permits upon application.

The Deutsche Post was designated to
receive the license fees because it is the
most convenient agency for occupation
personnel. The money will be converted to
Deutsche marks for use in feeding fish,
stocking streams and conserving game.
from PRD release Oct. 12.

Text of Speech

A talk by High Commissioner McCloy was
recorded for the March of Time, Inc.,- and
televised on a US-wide hook-up Oct 13. The
talk prefaced the dramatization of “Crusade
in Europe“ by General of the Army Dwight

. Eisenhower, which has been adapted tor
television. The following was released by
permission of March of Time, Inc.

A few weeks ago the population of western
Germany, after having gone to the polls to
select representatives from among their own
number, established in the city of Bonn a
parliamentary government, the first one
since 1933. It was an historic occasion and
marked a natural climax to the unfolding
drama of the development of a new Europe.

Mankind is slow in learning the lesson of
the past. All of us whose generation has
been marred by two great wars realize that
the price of freedom is a costly one. The
German people, although as desirous of
freedom as any other people, became un-
wary, with the result that their liberty was
lost to the iron hand of privilege and
despotism.

The bitter lesson which came with the loss
of two disastrous wars is one which never
should be lost. In recounting the second of
these conflicts, General Eisenhower has done
a great service and the ‘‘March of Time’
organization is to be complimented for their
ingenuity in dramatizing the General's story
for tens of millions of Americans.

I wish it were possible for the people
of all nations to enjoy the same privilege.
If this were possible, the lesson to which
I have referred might be written even more
everlastingly in their memories. It would
surely give added encouragement to those
who are now engaged in the momentous task
of leading the German people toward a
true democracy,

In assessing the performance of this, the
youngest government on the continent, we
should not overlook the fact that it is faced
with enormous and unprecedented problems.
It must govern a divided country; its powers
and prerogatives are circumscribed; it can
only gradually assume the legislative,
judicial and executive powers which have
been assigned to it. It must pay and work
its way out of a deficit economy. It must
provide housing for millions. It must square
the problem of eight to ten million refugees
from many eastern lands who have crowded
within its already overpopulated territory.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The German people have in times past
demonstrated that they possess great capacity
for hard work and application to the task
at hand. Now is the time for them to
display that capacity to the utmost. The

progress of the German people will be
watched and guided. Material __ outside
assistance, already vast, will continue 1o

be provided for some time to come, But in
the final analysis the future of Germany
depends upon the will, the character and
the spirit of the German people themselves.

Official Announcements

Customs Control in UK Zone

In accordance with the provisions of the
Occupation Statute, the customs procedure
with regard to the movement of goods across
western Germany's international frontiers now
becomes the responsibility of the German
authorities. Consequently, all persons crossing
these frontiers can expect in future to have
their beggage, etc. searched by officials of
the German Customs Frontier Service (Zoll-
grenzdienst),

These officials will be responsible for
seizures of contraband, etc. and any appeals
against such seizures will have to be address-
ed_to the German customs authorities.

The foregoing does not apply to customs
examination of members of the Allied Oc-
cupational Forces which will be carried out
by the German Customs Frontier Service
the direct supervision of a British
official of the Frontier Inspection Service.
These British officials are stationed at certain
road and rail crossings on the international
frontiers and airports, and members of the
Occupggional Forces are only allowed to
leave enter at these points.

These British officials will also give advice
and assistance to Allied nationals other than
Occupational Forces, but it will have to be
remembered that their numbers are small and
they cannot always be made available at all
crossing points.—from CCG(BE) announcement.

Foreign Travel By Germans

Restrictions on travel abroad of citizens
of western Germany are being progressively
reduced in line with the increasing libera-
lization of Allied controls and is aimed at
helping Germany resume her place in western
Europe through a freer interchange of skills
and personnel. .

In the past a German who applied for an
exit permit to leave Germany was called
upon to show cause why he should be allowed
to do so. In general, journeys were author-
ized only if they were considered to be in
the direct interest of Military Government,
or for the reeducation of Germany or where
compassionate reasons for travel out of Ger-
many were established.

With the establishment of the new German
federal government, these restrictions have
now been removed, and the German federal
agencies to be set up to deal with travel
matters will have a large part in the libera-
lized travel program.

The Occupation Authorities still reserve
the right to refuse an exit or entry permit
if it is considered that the proposed journey
is prejudicial to their control, or contrary
to the interesst of Germany. y

An essential to the prosperity of Germany
is a “two-way” traffic and the recent relaxa-
tions have opened the gate of western Ger-
many to visitors from all over the world.

Tourists may now spend their vacations
in Germany.

Business men may enter freely. Relations
and friends from countries abroad are free
to pay their visit and the many contacts
which are so essential to the well-being of a
country have been reestablished in western
Germany.

Such restrictions on individual travelers as
remain have been reduced to the very
minimum essential under present conditions
to the security and well-being of Germany
and ‘the requirements of the ‘Occupation
Authorities —irom HICOG (Berlin) announce-
ment.

46

Commodities for Open Sale

The Joint Export-Import Agency on Sept. 28
issued a revised list of commodities available
for open sale.

These materials, originally imported for
stockpiling and other programs, comprise 52
main classifications of goods from ammonium
to zinc. Most are located in warehouses in
north German ports and are offered for sale
on an “as is, where is” basis, to any
individual or firm in the three western -zones
and three western sectors of Berlin for
Deutsche marks,

Complete details as to quantities, specifica-
tions, location and price will be supplied on
request to the Office of Operations, Joint
Export-Import Agency, Frankfurt. All items are
offered subject to prior sale.

The Joint Export-Import Agency indicated
that, under certain conditions, several of the
items may be purchased for re-export.

Commodities available are: ammonium,
antimony, arsenate, asbestos, balsam, bismuth,
blood albumen, cadmium, camphor, carbon
black, casein, chromium, copper, copper
oxychloride, creosol, doors, glue, manila hemp,
insulin, automobile lamps, lithium, grinding
hachine, pressing machine, calculating machine,
manganese, milkpowder, phenol, phosphate,
potassium, rags, resin, selenium, sisal, sodium,
soup, ladies shoes, straw wicker work, sulphur,
tall oil, ebony, balsawood, Swedish redwood,
cedar logs, swan and exotic round timber,
vaccine, talc, truck tires, vanadium, vitamin
extract, zinc, zinc phosphite—from JEIA
announcement.

Informational Operations

The Office of Public Affairs announced
Sept. 29 that it would no longer be necessary
for non-German nationals now conducting or
seeking to establish operations in the field
of information media in the US Zone to
obtain permission -for such operations from
the Information Services Division.

The requirement that a letter of authoriza-
tion be secured from the chief, Information
Services Division of the state where the
applicant's headquarters is established, is
also rescinded, However, special permission
is still tequired for the operation of radio
broadcasting, television or wired radio trans-
mission installation.

Any other pertinent regulations governing
business operations of non-German nationals
in the US Zone of Germany are not hereby
affected.—from HICOG announcement.

Housing Priorities

Housing accommodations for EUCOM person-
nel will be assigned in each housing and
personnel group according to the date that
the request for quarters was submitted,
according to a new EUCOM-wide policy.

Previously, the rank and date-of-rank for
military personnel, or the grade and date-of-
grade for civilian employees, were determin-
ing factors in assigning housing.

In accordance with the new “‘first come,
first assigned’ policy, persons arriving at a
military post will be given a priority number
based on the date of their request for an
assignment of quarters.

A request cannot be forwarded in advance
of the actual arrival of the individual on the
post, Within each group arriving on the same
date, relative arrangement of priority will
still be made by rank or grade,

As the quarters become available within
each housing and personnel group, they will
be offered to the individual in order of his
priority.

If the individual refuses to accept adequate
quarters that are provided to him, his name
will be placed at bottom of the then-existing
list of his group, and a new priority number
will be given him.—from. EUCOM announce-
ment.

Restriction on EES Gasoline

Sale of EES gasoline to registered owners
of private vehicles has been limited to 200
gallons a month by a EUCOM cable to all
major commands and military posts in the
US-controfled area of Germany, and not more
than 20 gallons may be delivered at one time

NOVEMBER 1949

--- Page 54 ---
into regular tanks of vehicles of authorized
owners.

Post commanders. may increase the allow-
ance in individual cases only upon satis-
factory proof of greater requirement, and the
same cable authorizes post commanders to
cancel the EUCOM vehicle registration of any
person under their jurisdiction, using gasoline
in excess of personal needs or for illegitimate
purposes, Cancellation of private vehicle
registration will preclude further purchases
of gasoline from EES.

EES gasoline stations may fill up to 25
gallons into spare cans if authorized per-
sonnel are traveling to points not serviced
by EES outside the US-controlled area of
Germany and are in possession of a special
permit.

In order to secure special authorization,
owners of private automobiles must present
valid travel orders or a certificate, signed
by their superior: officer or responsible
supervisor, indicating that the place to be
visited does not have EES facilities. Such a
certificate must then be submitted for review
to the adjutant of the post or subpost where
the travel orders or certificate were issued.

The adjutant may determine the amount of
gasoline required in addition to a full tank
and may authorize the purchase of gaso-
line in spare cans, not exceeding a total of
25 gallons. Only one copy of the special
permit will be issued to the person re-
questing it and this copy will be surrendered
to the EES station filling the spare cans.—
from EUCOM announcement.

Airlines Mark Surpluses

Commercial airlines operating in western
Germany are now permitted to convert Deit-
sche mark surpluses into foreign currencies.
Up to Sept. 27, airlines were required to
deposit DM receipts in blocked accounts,
with withdrawals permitted only for operat-
ing expenses in Germany. :

Under the new arrangement, scheduled air
carriers serving western Germany ard the
western sectors of Berlin may convert their
mark surpluses up to a total of $1,300,000 in
the next six months. This amount, the total
allocated for all lines, is estimated to be
25 percent of the total operating cost of the
air carriers for the same period.—from JEIA
announcement.

———

Transfer of JEIA Activities

The Joint Export-Import Agency issued
Oct. 14 am instruction which will transfer
nearly all of its functional operations and
responsibilities to the German Administration
for Economics (Verwaltung fuer Wirtschaft) or
other ,competent German governmental autho-
rity designated by the German Federal Govern-
ment.

With one exception, all administrative func-
tions in regard to foreign trade are exercised
by the VfW effective from Oct. 15. .

The Joint Export-Import Agency will still
exercise the power of approving or disapprov-
ing export licenses for commodities listed in
Allied Control Council Law No. 43 (Prohibited
Items) and certain other materials.

The termination of these responsibilities is
outlined in JEIA Instruction No. 34. The
instruction states that the transfer is subject
to the reserved powers of the Allied High
Commission.

The Joint Export-Import Agency will
continue functioning, in fields not transferred
to HICOG or German authorities, until placed
in liquidation status, at which time outstanding
contracts, obligations and claims will be
completed.

Instructions and operational +memoranda
covering functions which are transferred to
German Administration under this instruction
are_as follows:

JEIA Instruction No. 1: First Revision—Sub-
ject: Export procedure. (excluding paras 10 (a),
(i) and (ii) as amended.)

JEIA Instruction No. 3: First Revision—Sub-
ject: Procedure for the receipt of and account-
ing for imports into the US/UK Zones of
Germany.

JEIA Instruction No. 4: Subject: Decentra-
lized import licensing procedure (Note:—Dispo-
sition of imports procured, or products manu-
factured therefrom).

NOVEMBER 1949

JEIA Instruction No. 6: Subject: Export
foreign exchange bonus. : .
JEIA Instruction No. 7: Subject: Amplifi-

cation of procedure relating to international
transportation by motor carrier as published
by Transport Division OMGUS and CCG (BE).

JEIA Instruction No. 9: First Revision—Sub-
ject: Performance of services by German
agents on behalf of foreign principals.

JEIA Instruction No. 11: First Revision—Sub-
ject: Procedure for reactivation of German
shipping, forwarding and transport agents, and
procedure for payment of foreign shipping,
forwarding and transport services and in-
surance by German exporters and their agents.

JEIA Instruction No. 12: First Revision—Sub-
ject: Procedure for the handling of deep sea
bunker coal at the North German ports.

JEIA Instruction No. 15: Second Revision—
Subject: Importation of gift shipments through
commercial channels.

JEIA Instruction No. 16: Subject; Procedure
for the licensing of German principals to use
commission agents abroad.

JEIA Instruction No. 17: Subject: Management
of German shipping.

JEIA Instruction No. 18: Subject: Conversion
of interzonal trade with Saar territory to
foreign trade.

JEIA Instruction No. 19: Subject: Procedure
for the licensing of German firms to charter
non-German vessels.

JEIA Instruction’ No. 20: Subject; Establish-
ment of foreign exchange credit.

JEIA Instruction No. 22: First Revision-——Sub-
ject: Procedure for filing applications for
patents and registration of trademarks, designs
and copyrights.

JEIA Instruction No. 25: Subject: Procedure
for the licensing of German firms to book
shipping spate in non-German vessels opera-
ting on liner services.

JEIA Instruction No. 26: Subject: Lifeboat
institute (Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Rettung
Schiffbruechiger).

JEIA Instruction No. 29:
licensing procedure.

JEIA Instruction No. 30: Subject: Licensing
of inland water transport services and supplies.

JEIA Instruction No. 31: Subject: Licensing
and payment for invisible imports.

JEIA Instruction No. 33: Subject: Procedure
for the export of solid fuel from western
Germany.

Operational Memorandum No. 13: Subject:
Export sales of secondhand items to individuals.

Subject: Import

Operational Memorandum No. 14: Subject:
Export, import and transit traffic between
Belgium and the Combined Zones.

Operational Memorandum No. 15: Subject:
Exports to Sweden.

Operational Memorandum Nr. 16: Subject:

JEIA Instruction No. 1—Export procedure.

Operational Memorandum No. 21: Subject:
Export of power, electricity and gas.

Operational Memorandum No. 22: Subject:
Processing transactions.

Operational Memorandum No. 24: Subject:
Contracts with sterling area.

Operational Memorandum No. 25: Subject:

Reichsmark payment for exports and imports.

Operational Memorandum No. 26: Subject:
Exports to Palestine.
Operational Memorandum No. 29: Subject:

Bonus A‘ purchases within Germany.

Operational Memorandum No. 32: Subject:
Currencies, banks and accounts for payment
of exports and imports.

Export of Coal

The Joint Export-Import Agency Oct. 7
delegated full responsibility for approving
exports of coal from western Germany to
the Deutscher Kohlen-Verkauf (German Coal
Sales Office) at Essen. This agency will
operate until such time as the German
Federal Government establishes an official
body to approve solid fuel exports.

The: new arrangement was
JEIA Instruction No. 33, which also established
the operational procedure to be followed by
the governmental body when it comes into
being. The instruction specifies’ that the
body will be under the supervision of the
Combined Coal Control Group, and that it will
be located at Essen.

47

outlined in ~

Immediately the overall allocation of coal
from western Germany has been established
by the Economic Commission for Europe, the
Allied High Commission, through the Coal

Control Group, will inform the German
governmental body of the quantities and
grades which may be exported to each

country. Thereafter, export contracts will
only be approved by the German body in
accordance with such allocations and ac-
cording to the coal prices which will be
fixed by the appropriate authorities.

The German governmental body will be
charged with full responsibility in screening
export coal contracts and to see that
contracts do not contain or establish re-
strictive trade practices. — from JEIA an-
nouncement.

Road and Weather Reports

Reports on road surface and weather con-
ditions throughout the US controlled area of
Germany. were resumed by the Provost
Marshal Division, EUCOM, on Oct. 17, to
be published daily in the Stars & Stripes
and broadcast over AFN.

Responsibility for compiling and releasing
road and weather condition reports was
assigned to the Highway Patrol Branch of
the Provost Marshal Division. Post com-
manders in EUCOM were directed to render
daily reports, covering main highways and
secondary roads in their post areas.

Normally, reports are submitted and an-
nounced once during a 24-hour period, but
sudden changes in conditions affecting traffic
safety are subject to special reports and
are announced immediately.

Accurate and current announcements of
weather and road conditions are only part
of the EUCOM program to aid motorists in
the US controlled area in avoiding hazardous
roads and preventing accidents. Provost Mar-
shal officials stressed that full cooperation of
the motoring public is needed at all times in
order to improve traffic safety effectively.—
from EUCOM announcement.

Travel Clearence

Travel clearance still is required for
EUCOM personnel wishing to visit Berlin,
Bremen, Bremerhaven, Frankfurt, Heidelberg,
Munich, Nuremberg, Stuttgart, Salzburg and
Vienna, where critical shortages of accom-
modations continue to exist, §

Specific individual clearance must be
obtained from the commanders of the areas
before orders are issued permitting travei
into these cities, if accommodations are
required. Prior clearance is not needed,
except for Berlin, Vienna and Salzburg, if
the traveler does not need accommodations
or will stay in private quarters.

EUCOM travelers also were advised that
Munich and Garmisch Military Posts will not
issue occupational forces travel permits (grey
passes) needed for entry into Vienna, or the
allied force permits for travel to the French
Zone of Austria, except to personnel under
the jurisdiction of Munich and Garmisch
posts. Other persons proceeding to Austria
must obtain the proper documents from the
military post where they reside. Those arriv-
ing in Munich or Garmisch en route to Austria
without proper documentation will be returned
to their home station. — from EUCOM an-
nouncement, '

Criminal Investigation Units

Criminal Investigation Detachment. and
special Investigation Sections at Military
Posts in EUCOM are being phased out as
separate organizations and are being re-
organized to operate as Criminal Investigation
Units. These will be composed of specialized
squads and will be assigned to post Provost
Marshals but under central control of the chief,
CID, Provost Marshal Division, EUCOM.

Such criminal investigation units will be
charged with responsibility in their assigned
post areas, for prevention, suppression and
investigation of all crimes against the US
Government, and crimes committed against
individuals serving in the occupation. Serious-
ness of an offense will no longer determine
assignment for investigation to a special

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Reparations (Cumulative Review), Report of
the Military Governor, No. 48, September 1945
-June 1949.

Report of the Month of July, JEIA, July 1949.

Monthly Report of the Control Commission
for Germany (BE), Office of UK High Com-
missioner, Vol..4, No. 8, August 1949.

Records Administration, Ci, Cir 197 of 1949,
Hq EUCOM, Aug. 26, 1949.

Designation of Commands, C2, Cir 124 of
1949, Hq EUCOM, Aug. 26, 1949.

Marriage, C4, Cir 3 of 1949, Hq EUCOM,
Aug. 29, 1949.

Weekly Directive, Hq EUCOM,
Sept. 2, 1949. .

Army Postal Service in the European Com-
mand, C1, Cir 18 of 1949, Hq EUCQM, Sep. 2,
1949,

Establishment of “Off Limits,"" Ci, Cir 55 of
1949, Hq EUCOM, Sept. 2, 1949.

Control of Firearms, C3, Cir 87 of 1949, Hq
EUCOM, Sept. 2, 1949.

Bipartite Food, Agriculture and Forestry
Group Weekly Report, No. 57, Sept. 9, 1949.

Legal Gazette (Oeffentlicher Anzeiger) of
the Combined Economic Area, No. 81, BICO/
GL(49)213, Sept. 9, 1949.

EUCOM Station List, 31 August 1949, AG
319.26 AGU, Hq EUCOM, Sept. 12, 1949.

EUCOM Publication Depot Bulletin, No. 37,
Hq EUCOM, Sept. 14, 1949. Covers Sept. 6 to 9.

Personnel Survey of the Army and Air Force
in Europe, AG 320.2 AGU-AGO, Hq EUCOM,
Sept. 15, 1949. Covers quarter ending June 30.

Regulation No. 2 pursuant to MG Law
No. 75, AG 010.6 (LD), OMGUS (Berlin),
Sept. 15, 1949.

Military Government Law No. 26 ‘'Disposi-
tion of Properties in the US Zone of
Occupation Formerly Owned by the Reichs-
rundfunk Gesellschaft," AG 010.6 (LD),
OMGUS (Frankfurt), Sept. 15, 1949.

German Economic Press Review, No. 206,
GEA, CCB(BE), Sept. 15, 1949.

No. 35,

Daily Press Review, No. 37, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 15, 1949.
Berlin Press Review, No. 215, OMGBS,

Sept. 15, 1949.

Military Police Traffic Control Training, Ci,
Training Memorandum 7 of 1949, Hq EUCOM,
Sept. 16, 1949.

Economic Press Digest, No. 66, OMGUS PIO
(Frankfurt), Sept. 16, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 38, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 16, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 216, OMGBS,
Sept. 16, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 217, OMGBS,

Sept. 16, 1949,

Legislation for Monetary Reform, AG 010.6
(FA), OMGUS (Berlin), Sept. 17, 1949.

What is the Job of the US Fleet? TI&E
Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 38, TI& Division,
EUCOM, Sept. 18, 1949.

Military Government Law No. 53 (Revised),
“Control of Foreign Exchange and of the
Movement of Property," AG 010.6 (EA),
OMGUS (Berlin), Sept. 19, 1949.

Administration Economy Program, AG 300
COM-AGO, Hq EUCOM, Sept. 19, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 39, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 19, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, No. 218,
Sept. 19, 1949.

Efficiency Reports, AG 210.3 SGS, Hq US
Army, Sept. 20, 1949.

OMGBS,

Troop Assignment, No. 24, Hq EUCOM,
Sept. 20, 1949.
Berlin Press Review, No. 219, OMGBS,

Sept. 20, 1949.

Regulation No.1 under MG Law No. 53
(Revised), ‘‘Control of Foreign Exchange and
of the Movement of Property," AG 004.21
(EA), OMGUS (Berlin), Sept. 21, 1949.

Declaration concerning the Entry into Force
1 the Occupation Statute, CCG(BE), Sept. 21,
1949,

Bipartite Commerce and Industry Group
Weekly Report, No. 60, Sept. 14, 1949. +

The Public ‘Compares Preserft and Past
Economic Conditions, Opinion Surveys Report,
No. 189, ISD OMGUS (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 21,

1949,

Berlin Press Review, No. 220, OMGBS,
Sept. 21, 1949.

German Economic Press Review, No. 207,

OEA CCC(BE), Sept. 22, 1949.

Copies of Instructions listed in

the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to
the originating headquarters.

Berlin Press Review, No. 221, OMGBS,
Sept. 22, 1949.
Daily Press Review, No. 42, ISD OMGUS

(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 22, 1949.

Economic Press Digest, No. 67, OMGUS PIO
(Frankfurt), Sept. 23, 1949.

Economics vs Savings, AG 091.3 COM-AGO,
Hq EUCOM, Sept. 23, 1949.

Weekly Directive, No. 38, Hq EUCOM,
Sept. 23, 1949.
Berlin Press Review, No. 222,. OMGBS,

Sept. 23, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 43, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 23, 1949.

Statistical Report End August 1949, Labor

Dept. of the Combined Zones (Frankfurt),
Sept. 24, 1949.
Daily Press Review, No. 44, ISD OMGUS

(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 26, 1949.

Bipartite Commerce and Industry Group
Weekly Report, No. 61, Sept. 21, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 45, ISD
(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 27, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 46, ISD
(Bad Nauheim). Sept. 28, 1949.

German Economic Press Review,
OEA CCG(BE), Sept. 29, 1949. *

Daily Press Review, No. 47, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim}, Sept. 29, 1949.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 190, ISD
OMGUS (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 29, 1949. Covers
German newspapers and publications dated
up to Sept. 28 inclusive.

OMGUS .
oMGuS
No. 208,

Daily Press Review, No. 48, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Sept. 30, 1949.
Daily Press Review, No. 49, ISD OMGUS

(Bad Nauheim), Oct. 3, 1949.

Information Bulletin, No. 171, HICOG (Ber-
lin), Oct, 4, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 50, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Oct. 4, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 51, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Oct. 5, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 52, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Oct. 6, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No.53 ISD
(Bad Nauheim), Oct. 7, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 54, ISD OMGUS
(Bad Nauheim), Oct. 1

HEUTE (in German), No. 95, ISD OMGUS,
Oct. 12, 1949.

omcus

squad. The type of crime involved will be
the only deciding factor. — from EUCOM
announcement.

Funds for Air Stops

Persons returning to the United States
from EUCOM on a Military Air Transport
Service plane were cautioned to carry with
them sufficient money to cover expenses if
the aircraft is delayed enroute.

. MATS planes leaving Rhine-Main air force
base for Westover Field, Mass., sometimes
are diverted to aerial ports in France, Eng-
land or other places where it is impossible
to secure partial payments of salaries, or to
purchase. cigarettes.

Occasionally, the planes so diverted must
remain at the way stations for as long as
a week. As there are no government messes
at those points, each passenger must purchase
food from his own funds.—from EUCOM
announcement.

Chaplains’ Hour Programs

*Chaplains' hours" for instruction in
citizenship and morality will be conducted
at all-army installations in European Com-
mand, Commanders will designate time in
regular training schedules for this purpose,
and all military personnel will be required
to attend one chaplains’ hour each month.

The period of instruction may vary from
30 minutes to an hour. More frequent
scheduling is suggested whenever troops
may be assembled readily without inter-
ference with military duties. The character

guidance instruction in EUCOM hitherto has
been left to the discretion of unit com-
manders, and the frequency of attendance
has -not been specified. — from EUCOM
announcement. .

Career Field Examinations

Enlisted ‘men in EUCOM who are classified
into the dmfantry, artillery or armored
cavalry career fields should submit appli-
cations for advancement on Department of
the Army: AGO Form 359 preliminary to
qualifying for the first annual round of
promotional examinations in these fields.

Applications for the infantry field must be
submitted before Oct. 20; for armored
cavalry by Oct. 26; and for artillery between
Oct. 5 and Nov. 1. Approved applications
received by EUCOM examining and com-
puting agencies more than 10 days after
these closing dates will not be honored.

Computation of the minimum 60-day period
for deferred enlisted efficiency reports will
not extend beyond the closing dates. The
deferred reports must be received by the
EECA not later than 15 days following the
closing date of the receipt of advancement
applications.

The time-in-grade and the time-in-service
necessary for promotion will be computed
as of Feb. 1, 1950, rather than on the date of
the examinations. Those whose latest
efficiency report standard score is below 61
will not be eligible for promotion.

The Department of the Army AGO
Form 297 filled out in connection with grade

adjustment promotion recommendations for
those classified into combat career ‘fields
will form the basis for determining those
who are ineligible for advancement in those
fields. EUCOM examining and computing
agencies are currently advising troop units
of the scores pertaining to individuals
recommended for grade adjustment promo-
tions for the period between July 1 and

Aug. 31.

Enlisted personnel who have approved
applications, but who are scheduled to
retum to the United States about the time
of the examinations, will take tests at the
7749 Staging Area. — from EUCOM an-
nouncement. .

Promotions Suspended

The promotion of enlisted personnel to
and within the first three grades (sergeant,
sergeant first class and mastet sergeant) is
suspended temporarily, according to a
directive from the Department of the Army,
received by Headquarters, ‘European Command.

The freezing of promotions in the first
three grades is effective immediately
(Sept. 19) for all enlisted personnel except
those in the food service career field who
are due to be promoted Tuesday, Sept. 20,
as a result of qualifying in promotional
examinations conducted in August.

Despite the temporary ban on promotions,
examinations for Army personnel classified
into career fields will be held as scheduled.
These include tests in the infantry, artillery
and armored cavalry career fields. — from,
EUCOM announcement.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF

--- Page 56 ---
Three groups of American farmers and their families visited
, areas of Western Germany in September as part of a month's
“Friendship Tour’ of several Marshall Plan countries. Part
of one group is pictured on arrival al the main railroad
station in Frankfurt. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Dr. Everett Clinchy, who helped organize ihe first inter-faith
council of Christians and Jews in postwar Germany, returned
to Hesse Sept. 23 to survey the results of his early occupation
efforts. Dr, Clinchy (center), US national president and inter-
national president of the Council of Christions and Jews,
is greeted by Dr. Le Roy Vogel, education chief (left) and
Francis E. Sheehan, deputy land commissioner for Hesse.
Accompanying Dr. Clinchy were Falher Henry Cardinal,
Chicago priest and labor relations expert, Dr. Carl Zietiow,
HICOG liaison officer, and Dr. Fritz Reich, director of the
Wiesbaden Council of Christians and Jews, (PRD OLCH photo)

Displaced persons at the occupation emigrant staging area
at Bremerhaven favorably impressed white-haired Sen.
Homer Ferguson (R-Mich.) and Sen. Raymond E. Baldwin
(R-Conn.), holding boy. The congressmen conversed with the
DP's through interpreters.

(US Amy photo)

Selection of patterns and colors for curtains, draperies and
upholstery fabrics for dependent homes, was discussed in
Heidelberg with panel of women. Discussing manufacturing
problems are, I.-r., Lt. Col. J. M. Illig, deputy chief and
Col. E. V. Macatee, chief, QM Supply Branch; J. B. Peters
(standing), deputy chief and Maj. F. N. Allwine, chief, QM
Clothing and Equipment Section; Mrs. G. W. Barry, wife of
Lt. Col. Barry; Mrs. R. A. Harmon, wife of Sic. Harmon; Mrs.
G. F. Heh, wife of WOJG. Heh; Mrs. W. J. Morgan, wife ot
Capt. Morgan; Mrs. H. P. Donald, wife of Maj. Donald, and
Mrs. R. Silverman, wife of Col. Silverman. (US Army photo)

--- Page 57 ---
NOVEMBER

yom HSH ZN

SO: ©: OO SSIs Gs

3 10
4 11

18 320° 27
14 21 28
se ey se ae
16 23 30
17 24
18 25

a2 «1

9 26